Assessment report
for
Komboglyze
International non-proprietary name: saxagliptin / metformin
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002059
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
Table of contents
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ............................................................................ 3
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4
1.1. Submission of the dossier......................................................................................4
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product.........................................................5
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5
2.1. Introduction.........................................................................................................5
2.2. Quality aspects ....................................................................................................6
2.2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................6
2.2.2. Active Substance ...............................................................................................7
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ..................................................................................9
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 11
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 11
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 11
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 11
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 12
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 13
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 14
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 16
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects................................................................ 17
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 17
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 17
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 19
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 23
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 27
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 27
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 27
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 27
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 28
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 62
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy..................................................................... 62
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 63
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 68
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety....................................................................... 68
2.7. Pharmacovigilance.............................................................................................. 68
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................... 75
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 75
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 77
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 2/77
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
Abbreviation or 
special term
AE
AUC
BMS
CI
CK
Cmax
CSR
DPP4
EC
EU
FDA
FDC
FPG
GLP-1
HbA1c
IR
LOCF
LT
MWG
PK
PPG
QAM
QPM
SAE
SOC
ST
T2DM
US
XR
Explanation
Adverse event
Area under the curve
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Confidence interval
Creatine kinase
Maximum plasma concentration
Clinical study report
Dipeptidyl peptidase 4
European Commission
European Union
Food and Drug Administration
Fixed-dose combination
Fasting plasma glucose
Glucagon-like peptide-1
Glycosylated hemoglobin
Immediate release
Last observation carried forward
Long-term
Mean weighted glucose
Pharmacokinetic(s)
Postprandial glucose
Once daily in the morning
Once daily in the evening
Serious adverse event
System organ class
Short-term
Type 2 diabetes mellitus
United States
Extended release
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 3/77
1.  Background information on the procedure
1.1.  Submission of the dossier
The  applicant  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  /  AstraZeneca  EEIG submitted  on  21  July  2010 an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Komboglyze,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  3  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMA/CHMP  on  27  July 
2009.
The applicant applied for the following indication:
Komboglyze  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  adult 
patients  aged  18 years  and  older  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  inadequately  controlled  on  their 
maximally  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of 
saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets.
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended –  fixed combination application 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies
Information on Paediatric requirements
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/240/2009 on the granting of a product-specific waiver.
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity
Similarity
Not applicable.
Market Exclusivity
Not applicable.
Scientific Advice
The applicant did not seek scientific advice.
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 4/77
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were:
Rapporteur: 
Pieter de Graeff
Co-Rapporteur: Karsten Bruins Slot



The application was received by the EMA on 21 July 2010.
The procedure started on 18 August 2010.
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  6  November 
2010.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  5 
November 2010.
 During  the  meeting  on  13-16  December  2010,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on 17 December 2010.
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 2011.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 4 and 15 July 2011.


 During the CHMP  meeting on 18-21 July 2011 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 


be addressed in writing by the applicant.
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 18 August 2011.
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 6 September 2011.
 During the meeting on 19-22 September 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Komboglyze on 22 September 2011.
2.  Scientific discussion
2.1.  Introduction
Problem statement
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is steadily increasing in almost every region of the 
world  and  in  the  European  region  it  is  about  9%  (International  Diabetes  Federation).  T2DM  has  a 
diverse physiopathology including inappropriate hepatic glucose production, reduced insulin sensitivity, 
pancreatic islet dysfunction (reduced ß-cell mass combined with ß-cell dysfunction) and inappropriately 
elevated  glucagon  secretion. The  chronic  hyperglycaemia  is  associated  with  microvascular  and 
macrovascular  complications  and  subsequent  increases  in  morbidity  and  mortality.  Glucose  control 
detoriates  progressively  over  time,  and  after  failure  of  diet  and  exercise,  needs  on  average  a  new 
intervention  with  glucose-lowering  agents  every  3-4  years  to  obtain/retain  good  control.  The 
recommended  first  line  treatment  is  metformin.  Sulfonylureas may  be  used  as  an  alternative  to 
patients  intolerant  to  metformin,  or  as  an  addition  to  metformin.  Other  oral  treatment  alternatives 
include alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, meglitinides, thiazolidindiones and DPP-4 inhibitors. 
A  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  containing  2  anti-hyperglycaemic  agents,  i.e.  one  DPP-4  inhibitor 
(saxagliptin)  and  one  biguanide  (metformin)  with  complementary  mechanism  of  action  for  lowering 
glucose,  has  the  potential  to  provide  new  treatment  option  for  patients  with  T2DM.  As  a  fixed  dose 
combination tablet, it is assumed that it may improve patient compliance.
About the product
The applicant  proposed  the  FDC  product  of  saxagliptin/metformin IR  of  2.5/850  and  2.5/1000  with  a 
fixed dose of metformin taken twice daily, instead of a once daily 5 mg dose of saxagliptin as add on to 
metformin, for adequate coverage of T2DM. A single tablet dosing can be considered more convenient 
than the dosing of separate tablets for each mono-component.
The once daily 5 mg dose of saxagliptin has been approved as add on to metformin for the treatment 
of T2DM via the EU Centralised Procedure.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 5/77
  
Metformin hydrochloride is a well characterised drug. The IR dosage forms are widely approved for the 
treatment  of  T2DM,  with  tablet  strengths  of  500  mg,  850 mg  and  1000  mg  approved  in  several 
countries as Merck-Serono-branded Glucophage tablets, as well as generic products.
The  proposed  combination  therapy  with  metformin  and the  DPP-4  inhibitor  saxagliptin  is  expected  to 
lower glucose due to the different mechanisms of action.
The  applied  dose  strengths  are  2.5  mg/850  mg  and  2.5  mg/1000  mg,  and  the  applied  dose  is  one 
tablet twice daily.
The claimed indication was:
Komboglyze  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  adult 
patients  aged  18 years  and  older  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  inadequately  controlled  on  their 
maximally  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of 
saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
The granted indication is:
Komboglyze  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  adult 
patients  aged  18 years  and  older  with  type 2 diabetes  mellitus  inadequately  controlled  on  their 
maximally  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of 
saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets.
Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  referred  to: Article  10(b)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  –
relating to applications for fixed combination products.
Most of the studies presented in the dossier had been already submitted and evaluated in the previous 
MAA, which  lead to the approval of Onglyza  (saxagliptin),  which  is approved for  the combined use of 
saxagliptin with metformin.
The dossier submitted initially did not provide a sufficient comparison between 2 x 2.5 mg dosing and 
1  x  5  mg  dosing  of  saxagliptin.  Therefore,  the  applicant  has  conducted  a  pharmacokinetic 
(PK)/pharmacodynamic  (PD)  study  after  the  start  of  the  procedure,  which  was  then  submitted  and 
evaluated during the procedure.
2.2.  Quality aspects
2.2.1.  Introduction
Saxagliptin  has  been  approved  as  add  on  to  metformin  for  the  treatment  of  T2DM  via  the  EU 
Centralised  Procedure. Information  about  saxagliptin  in  the  present  dossier  is  the  same  as  for  the 
approved product Onglyza, updated with stability data.
Metformin hydrochloride is a well characterised drug. The IR dosage forms are widely approved for the 
treatment  of  T2DM,  with  tablet  strengths  of  500  mg,  850 mg  and  1000  mg  approved  in  several 
countries.
The  product  is  an  immediate  release  fixed  dose  combination,  film-coated  tablet  containing  two  drug 
substances:  saxagliptin  and  metformin  hydrochloride.  It  is  available  in  two  strengths  2.5/850  and 
2.5/1000  saxagliptin  /  metformin  respectively.    Komboglyze  is  indicated  for  treatment  of  type  2 
diabetes  mellitus.  The  maximum  daily  dose  according  to  the  SPC  is  5  mg  saxagliptin  and  2  gram 
metformin hydrochloride.
Komboglyze is presented in alu/alu blisters. For a full list of excipients refer to the SmPC.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 6/77
2.2.2.  Active Substance
Saxagliptin
The  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  is  saxagliptin  and  the  chemical  name  (IUPAC)  (1S,3S,5S)-2-
((2S)-2-Amino-2-(3-hydroxyadamantan-1-yl)acetyl)-2-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carbonitrile  hydrate. 
Its molecular formula and weight are C18H25N3O2∙H2O and 333.43 (315.41 anhydrous), respectively. Its 
structure is shown below.
The  substance  is  soluble  in  water,  and  very  soluble  at  low  pH  showing  a  minimum  solubility  of  17.6 
mg/ml  over  the  pH  range  0.7  to  8.7.  The  pKa  value  of  saxagliptin  was  determined  to  be  7.3.  The 
distribution coefficient octanol / water (Do/w) is at pH 7.0 is 0.607. It appears as a white to off-white, 
non-hygroscopic,  crystalline  powder  that  exists  as  a  stable  monohydrate.  To  date,  only  one 
polymorphic form of saxagliptin (free base monohydrate) has been observed.
Manufacture
The  synthesis  is  performed  in  five  reactions  carried  out  as  three  steps  with  isolation  of  two 
intermediates.  Reprocessing    steps  have  been  laid  down  for  cases  when  the  acquired  intermediate  is 
not  sufficient  pure;  in  these  steps  the  same  solvents  are  used  as  in  the  step  in  question  or  in  other 
steps  of  the  synthesis.  The  evolution  from  Process  A  to  the  intended  Process  D  is  characterized  by 
changes  in the  use of  reagents and/or  solvents  in  the  reaction, work-up, and  crystallization/isolation. 
Process  C  and  D  can  be  considered  essentially  equivalent  and  representative  for  the  proposed 
synthesis route. 
The manufacturing process of the drug substance is thoroughly described and sufficient information is 
given on the syntheses of the starting materials. 
A  Quality  by  Design  (QbD)  approach  has  been  utilized  during  development  of  the  manufacturing 
process.  The Critical Quality Attributes (CQAs) of the drug substance were defined and their impact on 
the product quality and the associated control strategies for these CQAs were presented.
Critical  process  parameters  (CPP)  were  identified  based  on  the  risk  assessments  of  the  process  and 
uni- and multivariate experiments were utilized to define the design space within the studied ranges. 
Critical Process Parameters (CPPs), as well as Key Process Parameters (KPPs), have been identified and 
acceptable ranges for all process parameters have been established to ensure that the manufacturing 
process  reproducibly  meets  the  defined  CQAs  of  the  drug  substance.This  was  studied  through  a  five-
batch campaign, conducted within the defined design space at scale at the commercial manufacturing 
site. 
The  CPP  limits, IPCs and batch  size  ranges  (including  molar  ratio’s)  for  the materials used  during  the 
process and acquired drug substance are acceptable based on the QbD data and CQAs submitted. The 
temperature ranges of the process laid down are within the CPP limits. The process is considered to be 
sufficently under control.
In  summary,  the  QbD  approach  to  the  manufacturing  process  for  saxagliptin  drug  substance  has 
provided  enhanced  process  knowledge  and  resulted  in  a  manufacturing  design  space  which  will 
consistently deliver high quality drug substance.
Specification
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual),  colour  (visual)  identification 
(IR or Raman and HPLC), assay (HPLC), impurities/ degradants (HPLC) and residual solvents (GC).
It has been shown that the stereochemical purity is maintained during manufacture and storage. 
The levels of heavy metals and trace metals are found < 20 ppm (ICP-MS) and for this reason no test 
or  limit  is  included  as  part  of  specification.  Finally,  given  the  process  chemistry,  including  aqueous 
extractions  as  well  as  a  wash  of  the  drug  substance  that  contains  water,  the  levels  of  inorganic 
materials are expected to be appreciably low. Also the results regarding residue on ignition are below 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 7/77
Rev06.11
the  generally  applied  limit  in  Ph.  Eur.  Monographs,  therefore  quality  control  of  the  drug  substance 
without a test and limit for sulphated ash and residue on ignition is considered acceptable.
Sufficient  evidence  has  been  provided  to  justify  why  polymorphism  is  not  controlled  in  the  product 
specification
Results for 9 batches of “process D” manufactured according to the proposed manufactured process, at 
the proposed manufacturing site have been presented. The results of these batches can be considered 
as representative for evaluation of batch-to-batch consistency of the proposed manufacturing process. 
In addition, results of 11 batches of “process C”, manufactured at a different site which were provided 
are considered  supportive, as “process  C”  is  essentially equivalent  to  “D”. The  batch  data of “process 
C” and “D” are within the specified limits.
Stability
A stability study on two batches manufactured by Process D at the commercial site covers 36 months 
at  refrigerated  conditions  (5°C)  and  6  months  at  accelerated  conditions  (25°C/60%RH).  For  the 
Process D batches, a study without an outer container has also been started at the long-term condition 
(the data cover 36 months) as well as at -20°C for 12 months. The results were within specifications at 
the long-term condition.
Results  from  another  stability  study  for  three  batches  of  saxagliptin  manufactured  by  Process  C  at  a 
former  site  have  been  provided  as  supportive  data.  The  data  cover  37  months  at  refrigerated 
conditions and 12 months at accelerated conditions.
The differences between Process C and Process D are minor. After 12 months at long-term conditions 
and 6  months at accelerated  conditions  the  level of degradants in Process D batches  is lower than  or 
similar to the level seen in Process C batches.
For  powder  X-ray  diffraction  no  change  from  initial  was  observed  for  any  batch.  The  sample 
stereochemistry  remained  the  same  and  the  drug  substance  form  remained  unchanged.  All  other 
tested parameters remained the same.
Photostability study
Photostability  was  investigated  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q1B  and  it  was  shown  that  saxagliptin  is  not 
sensitive to light.
Forced degradation studies
Forced degradation studies were performed with the drug substance in solution at several pH’s. Based 
on the results a potential degradation pathway has been identified and submitted in the dossier.
Oxidative  studies  have  also  been  performed.  Some  other  degradation  products  than  the  already 
discussed  have  been  encountered,  which  are  not  likely  to  be  present,  considering  that  they  degrade 
further. Adequate, qualified limits are already present for contents of these oxidation degradants in the 
drug substance.
In conclusion the re-test period and the proposed packaging material are accepted.
Metformin hydrochloride  
The  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  is  metformin  and  the  chemical  name  (IUPAC)  N,N-
Dimethylimidodicarbonimidic  diamide  monohydrochloride.  Its  molecular  formula  and  weight  are 
C4H12ClN5 and 165.63. Its structure is shown below.
The substance is white or almost white crystals freely soluble in water, slightly soluble in alcohol. There 
is no evidence of polymorphism for metformin hydrochloride. The dossier refers to the Ph. Eur. 
Monograph and the CEP provided by the metformin active substance supplier.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 8/77
Manufacture
The applicant has submitted a CEP provided by the metformin active substance supplier. Description of 
manufacturing  process  and  process  controls,  Control  of  materials,  Control  of  critical  steps  and 
intermediates,  Process  validation  and/or  evaluation  and  Manufacturing  process  development  are 
covered by the CEP
It is noted that the metformin is sourced as a blend with magnesium stearate from the manufacturer. 
The magnesium stearate is added as a lubricant to prevent the metformin HCl from caking and forming 
lumps  during  routine  bulk  storage  in  drums.  The  blend  comprises  99.5%  metformin  HCl  and  0.5% 
magnesium stearate.
Specification
As  per  the  submitted  CEP  the  drug  substance  specification  complies  with  that  of  the  Ph. Eur  with  an 
additional  limit  for  ‘any  other  impurity',  in  comparison  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph.  The  CEP  also 
states the absence of use of material of human or animal origin in the manufacturing of the substance.
Stability
According to the CEP, a retest period of 5 years is justified when stored in the proposed material.
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product
Pharmaceutical Development
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  a  fixed-dose  combination  of  saxagliptin  and 
metformin  hydrochloride.  The  dissolution  of  the  drug  substances  should  be  similar  to  that  of  the 
commercial mono-component drug products. 
The  product  is  an  immediate  release,  film-coated  tablet  with  two  drug  substances,  provided  in  two 
product strengths: saxagliptin/metformin HCl 2.5 mg/850 mg and 2.5 mg/1000 mg respectively.
The  design  of  the  tablet  is  based  on  the  recently approved  product  Onglyza  5  mg  film-coated  tablet, 
containing 5 mg saxagliptin/tablet.
The tablet consists of a tablet core with metformin HCl as drug substancecovered by a number of film-
coat layers. The drug substance saxagliptin is embedded within the middle layer.
The composition of the 2.5mg/1000mg product strength is based on the same tablet core granulate as 
of the 2.5mg/850mg strength: the two core compositions are proportionally equal. The compositions of 
the coatings are the same except regarding the colouring materials.
Metformin  is  mixed  with  magnesium  stearate  in  order  to  improve  flowability  and  prevent  lumping  on 
storage. Metformin’s particle size is not critical to solubility or dissolution considering its high solubility 
in water, and throughout the physiological pH range as well as its pharmacokinetics.
For the core tablet manufacturing stage, proven acceptable range (PAR) has been established for batch 
size,  mixing,  lubrication,  tablet  hardness,  -thickness  and  -weight.  The  operating  parameters  were 
found not to affect the CQAs within the ranges investigated.
Saxagliptin  is  prone  to  undergo  an  intra-molecular  cyclisation  reaction  in  solution  and  solid  states  to 
form  a  cyclic  amidine.  To  minimise  this  phenomenon  a  tablet  formulation  was  developed  with 
saxagliptin embedded within a film coat of Opadry.
Considering  that  the  drug  substance  dissolved  in  a  coating  suspension  during  manufacturing,  particle 
size is not relevant. In addition, the effect of large aggregates of the free base in the preparation of the 
coating  solution  on  the  dissolution  of  the  tablet  was  investigated.  The  drug  product  formulation  has 
been  demonstrated  to  perform  identically  with  aggregate  levels  several  hundred  times  larger  than 
what  the  drug  substance  process  typically  produces  and  thus  also  no  control  on  particle  size  in  the 
product is needed.
There are no unusual excipients included. Compatibility of saxagliptin with several coating materials 
has been investigated.
During  formulation  development,  several  prototype  formulations  were  manufactured  by  different 
processes. Bridging studies for the various formulations used in phase I, II and III and the commercial 
one were presented and are considered acceptable from a chemical-pharmaceutical point of view.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 9/77
Rev06.11
Quality  by  Design  concepts  and  a  risk-based  approach  was  employed  in  the  manufacturing  process 
development  to  identify  the  critical  quality  attributes  (CQA)  of  the  drug  product.  All  identified  CQAs 
relate  to  the  coating  stage.  Proven  acceptable  ranges  have  been  established  for  several  of  the 
processes at three specified scales. An investigation has been performed to determine the effect of the 
active  layer  on  the  CQAs.  The  parameters  and  factors  affecting  drug  product  CQA  have  been 
investigated  and  proven  acceptable  ranges  established.  The  ratio  of  active  substance  to  coating 
material in the suspension has been defined. Chemical stability of the coating suspension and absence 
of microbial growth were confirmed, and an appropriate holding time has been established.
The predictive active coating model (RSD model) establishing the process parameters ranges and the 
effect on  saxagliptin  content uniformity  of  the proposed  product, which was  originally  developed, has 
been  adapted  for  the  Komboglyze.  This  model  was  used  extensively  in  the  manufacturing  process 
indeed  demonstrated 
development  for  several  strengths  of  the  proposed  product.  It  was 
experimentally that the model accurately predicts the impact of active coating variables on saxagliptin 
content uniformity and is suitable for the proposed product.
However, the model is not intended to be used alone to support future expansions. Model maintenance 
is considered covered by GMP and does not trigger a variation application unless the established PARs
are narrowed or expanded. However if future batch analysis indicate that the prediction model fails to 
provide  a  satisfactory  estimate  of  the  content  uniformity  of  the  batch  the  applicant  will  take  proper 
action to resolve the issue.
Finally,  a  cause  and  effect  diagram  has  been  developed  with  regard  to  the  risks  to  the  commercial 
manufacturing  of  drug  product  and  the  factors  potentially  affecting  manufacture.  Based  on  all 
experiments an extensive list with the control strategy and proven acceptable ranges for production of 
the  product  has  been  submitted,  which  includes  the  intended  operating  ranges,  IPC’s  etc.  for  all 
manufacturing  steps.  The  system  response  over  the  Proven  Acceptable  Ranges  was  confirmed  by 
multiple batches at each scale. 
Comparative  in  vitro  dissolution  studies  at  pH  1.2,  4.5  and  6.8  between  the  saxagliptin  2.5 
mg/metformin HCl 850 mg tablets (used in BE study CV181121) and the saxagliptin 2.5 mg/metformin 
HCl 1000 mg tablets (for which a biowaiver is requested) was presented.
In view of the comparative dissolution results and the f2 results for metformin, and the requirements 
for f2-calculation in the guideline on Bioavailability, similarity regarding metformin dissolution between 
the two  strengths at the  three  pHs have  been  demonstrated. Regarding  saxagliptin  as this  substance 
remains a very rapidly dissolving component for both strengths at the three pH’s so these profiles are 
considered similar. Therefore the in vitro data support the biowaiver as discussed in section 2.4 Clinical 
Aspects. 
Adventitious agents
Lactose  monohydrate  is  the  only  material  of  animal  origin  derived  from  bovine  milk  sourced  from 
healthy cows in the same condition as milk collected for human consumption and comply with the Note 
for  guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via 
human and veterinary medicinal products (EMA/410/01 rev.3) .
Manufacture of the product
The  components  of  the  metformin  core  tablets  are  blended  and  tablets  are  compressed.  The 
manufacturing process then involves active coating of saxagliptin onto the core tablet. The tablets are 
printed and packaged..The metformin-magnesium stearate blend is an intermediate product for which 
validation studies regarding homogeneity/content uniformity have been conducted.
A prospective validation study will be performed in line with the presented protocol. It is noted that the 
application of the drug substance saxagliptin as a coating layer may be considered as a non-standard 
manufacturing  process.  However,  considering  that  a  total  of  11  commercial  scale  batches  have  been 
manufactured for three strengths of the drug product,  and the enhanced approach to pharmaceutical 
development and the manufacturer’s experience with the similar drug product Onglyza, it is considered 
acceptable that the results of the process validation study will be completed in a prospective way.
Product specification
The  drug  product  release  and  shelf  life  specification  includes  tests  and  limits  for  description  (visual), 
identification  (saxaglipin: HPLC, TLC, metformin: HPLC, IR), assay  (HPLC), uniformity  of  dosage units 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 10/77
(Ph.Eur.,  at  release),  impurities/  degradants  (HPLC),  dissolution  (Ph.Eur.  HPLC,)  and  microbial 
attributes (Ph. Eur., not routinely).
Analytical  results  have  been  presented  for  two  batches  of  the  2.5  mg/  850  mg  strength  and  five 
batches of the 2.5 mg/ 1000 mg strength. In addition results for four batches of the 2.5 mg/ 500 mg 
strength (outside the scope of the present application) have been presented as supportive data. Batch 
sizes correspond to the commercial batch size. The results comply with the specification.
Stability of the product
Stability  data  were  presented  for  seven  commercial  scale  batches  (three  batches  of  each  of  the  2.5 
mg/ 500 mg and the 2.5 mg/ 1000 mg strengths and one batch of the 2.5 mg/ 850 mg strength). The 
data  cover  24  months  at  5  °C,  25°C/  60%  RH  and  30°C/  75%  RH,  and  6  months  at  40°C/75%  RH. 
Under long term conditions from all the tested parameters only a slight increase in total impurities was 
observed  but  remained  within  specifications.  At  accelerated  conditions  all  the  tested  parameters 
remained  within  specifications  with  the  exception  of  total  or  individual  impurities  (saxagliptin)  at  the 
six-month timepoint.
In  addition,  the  results  from  a  one  month  stress  stability  study  (50  °C),  12  months  open  dish  study 
(25°C/  60%  RH),  photostability  study  (1.2  million  lux  hours)  and  temperature  cycling  study    (7  x  -
20°C to 40°C) have been presented.
Stability  data  on  the  metformin  hydrochloride/magnesium  stearate  blend,  demonstrated  excellent 
stability for up to 5 years.
Overall, the presented stability information supports the proposed shelf life and storage conditions.
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects
2.3.1.  Introduction
Komboglyze is a fixed dose combination product containing two approved products, saxagliptin 
(Onglyza) and metformin.  
The preclinical safety of the individual products has also been fully evaluated in the context of other 
marketing authorisation applications by regulatory agencies. 
The non-clinical primary and secondary pharmacodynamics (PD) of saxagliptin have been previously 
fully evaluated in the context of the marketing authorisation application of Onglyza. 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 11/77
No  new  pharmacology 
saxagliptin,  metformin  or 
saxagliptin/metformin and no new dedicated safety pharmacology studies have been performed as part 
of this  application.  However,  because  of  the  limited  experience  of  concomitant use  of  saxagliptin  and 
metformin a 3-month repeat oral dose toxicity study in dogs was performed. 
studies  have  been 
submitted 
for 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
A  prominent  theory  in  the  pathogenesis  of  type  2  diabetes  is  that  there  is  reduced  modulation  of 
insulin and glucagon homeostasis by incretins, hormones that increase insulin secretion in response to 
a meal. Based on the finding that infusion of the glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) incretin may alleviate 
some of the metabolic abnormalities in diabetic patients, there has been intense interest in increasing 
incretin levels therapeutically by using incretin mimetics or by inhibiting dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4). 
DPP4  is  the  primary  enzyme  responsible  for  inactivation  of  many  incretins,  specifically  GLP-1  and 
glucose-dependent  insulinotropic  polypeptide  (GIP).  Saxagliptin  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  human  DPP4. 
By  inhibiting  DPP4  saxagliptin  increases  the  level  of  GLP-1,  thereby  augmenting  postprandial  insulin 
secretion and subsequently lowering the postprandial plasma glucose levels.
Metformin  is  an  antihyperglycemic  agent  that  improves  glucose  tolerance  in  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes by lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose. Metformin decreases hepatic glucose 
production and intestinal absorption of glucose and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral 
glucose uptake and utilization. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies
Saxagliptin  has  been  evaluated  In  vitro  for  the  potential  to  antagonize  the  binding  of  appropriate 
radioligands to  42  receptor  and  ion-channels  or to  inhibit  11  different  enzymes. No  significant  effects 
were observed (<25% inhibition at 10 μM). 
Metformin  has  in  humans,  independently  of  its  action  on  glycaemia,  favourable  effects  on  lipid 
metabolism  as  shown  at  therapeutic  doses  in  controlled,  medium-term  or  long-term  clinical  studies, 
where metformin reduces total cholesterol, LDLc and triglyceride levels.
No  new  studies  have  been  performed.    With  saxagliptin/metformin  combination  the  applicant 
considered that no adverse pharmacologic interactions are anticipated due to different mechanisms of 
action for the two substances, and no additional pharmacology studies were therefore performed with 
the combination, which was found to be justified.
Safety pharmacology programme
No significant findings were reported from the saxagliptin safety pharmacology studies included in the 
MAA submission for Onglyza. 
Extensive use of  metformin  in patients with T2DM has not  revealed any  specific  safety  pharmacology 
concern. 
No dedicated safety pharmacology studies with saxagliptin/metformin have been performed. However, 
potential cardiovascular, central nervous and respiratory effects were evaluated as part of the 3-month 
repeat oral dose toxicity study in dogs. 
Cardiovascular system
The potential  effects  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  on the  cardiovascular  system  were 
evaluated as a component of the pivotal dog repeat-dose toxicity study and provided no findings of any 
concern for humans.
Consistent  with  the  individual  compounds,  the  combination  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  did  not 
produce  any  haemodynamic  or  electrocardiographic  effects  in  dogs  dosed  for  3  months  in  the  non-
clinical  toxicity  study  (5  mg/kg/day  saxagliptin,  20  mg/kg/day  metformin,  and  1/20  and  5/20 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 12/77
mg/kg/day saxagliptin/metformin). The benign cardiovascular safety profile of the combination in dogs 
was found to indicate a similarly favorable profile in humans. 
Central nervous system
Metformin-related tremors/shivers occurred in the 3-month dog study at a slightly higher incidence in 
dogs  given  5/20  mg/kg/day  saxagliptin/metformin  compared  to  metformin  alone.  These  observations 
were considered toxicologically insignificant based on the sporadic nature and low incidence.
Respiratory system
The  potential  effects  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  on  the  respiratory  system  were 
evaluated  as  a  component  of  the  dog  repeat-dose  toxicity  study.  Consistent  with  the  individual 
compounds,  the  combination  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  did  not  produce  effects  on  mean  arterial 
oxygen saturation or respiratory rate.
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions
Due to different mechanisms of action for saxagliptin and metformin no interaction is anticipated with 
the  fixed  combination,  and  no  dedicated  non-clinical  studies  were  therefore  conducted,  which  was 
acceptable.
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics
Pharmacokinetic endpoints for saxagliptin and metformin were previously assessed in non-clinical and 
clinical settings. Based on those assessments, no adverse pharmacokinetic interactions were expected. 
Therefore no additional non-clinical studies were conducted with the compounds in combination. 
Although  no  interaction  is  suspected,  Cmax  values for  saxagliptin  and  the  saxagliptin  metabolite  BMS-
510849 were decreased by 46-70% in the oral combination study of embryo-fetal development in rats 
when  saxagliptin  (25  mg/kg)  was  co-administered with  metformin at 600  mg/kg,  suggesting a weak-
to-moderate  interaction  between  metformin  and  saxagliptin.  AUC  exposures  were  generally 
comparable  or  slightly  increased.  No  signs  of  interaction  was  observed  in  rats  (25/200  mg/kg/day), 
rabbits  (40/50  mg/kg/day),  or  in  dogs  (5/20  mg/kg/day)  at  metformin/saxagliptin  ratios  ≤  8.  In  a 
clinical drug-drug interaction study, co-administration of 1000 mg metformin with 100 mg saxagliptin 
resulted in a 21% decrease in the geometric mean Cmax of saxagliptin, while the AUC(inf) of saxagliptin 
remained  unchanged (study  CV181017). These  findings  may  indicate  that a  potential  interaction  may 
occur between metformin and saxagliptin at dosing ratios >8, but considering  that AUC levels remain 
unchanged, the reduced Cmax levels were considered of minimal clinical relevance.
Toxicokinetics was assessed as a part of the toxicity studies.
Absorption
Bioavailability following oral administration of saxagliptin was determined to be 75% in rat, 76% in dog 
and 51% in monkey,. Saxagliptin exhibits a high volume of distribution at steady state in rat, dog and 
monkey (1.3-5.2 l/kg). Saxagliptin is cleared rapidly in rats (115 ml/min/kg) and at a moderate rate in 
dogs (9.3 ml/min/kg) and monkeys (14.5 ml/min/kg).The elimination half-life estimates of saxagliptin 
are comparable for rat, dog, monkey and human (2.1-4.4 h). 
Distribution
The protein binding of saxagliptin was very low in all species tested. The highest concentrations (1-12 
h) after oral dosing of saxagliptin related material were found in gastro-intestinal tissues, liver, urinary 
bladder  and  kidney.  For  both  saxagliptin  and  metformin,  red  blood  cells  are  likely  to  represent  a 
secondary  compartment  of  distribution  at  later  times.  No  data  was  provided  on  the  distribution  of 
metformin or of saxagliptin in combination with metformin.
Placental transfer
Saxagliptin-derived radioactivity was widely distributed in both maternal and fetal tissues in rats. This 
demonstrates  that  saxagliptin-derived  components  cross  the  placenta  in  rats.  A  limited  amount  of 
human data suggests the use of metformin in pregnant women is not associated with an increased risk 
of  congenital  malformations.  Animal  studies  with  metformin  do  not  indicate  harmful  effects  with 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 13/77
respect to pregnancy, embryonic or foetal development, parturition or postnatal development. No data 
was provided on the placental transfer of metformin or of saxagliptin in combination with metformin.
Metabolism
The  biotransformation  of  saxagliptin  is  primarily  mediated  by  CYP3A4/5.  The  major  metabolite  of 
saxagliptin (BMS-510849) is also a selective, reversible, competitive DPP-4 inhibitor, half as potent as 
saxagliptin.  Metformin  is  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine  in  humans.  No  metabolites  have  been 
identified in humans.
Excretion
Saxagliptin  and  its  metabolites  are  mainly  excreted  via  urine,  with  the  renal  clearance  of  saxagliptin 
greater than the GFR, suggesting active excretion. Metformin is also actively excreted via urine, but no 
data on excretion percentages via faeces or urine was provided by the applicant. In the SPC it is stated 
that  in  humans  metformin  is  excreted  unchanged  in  urine,  indicating  that  excretion  via  faeces  is  a 
minor excretion route. Thus, saxagliptin, its metabolites and metformin are mainly excreted via urine.
Studies in animals have shown excretion of both saxagliptin and/or metabolite and metformin in breast 
milk. It is unknown whether saxagliptin is excreted in human milk, but metformin is excreted in human 
milk in small amounts.
2.3.4.  Toxicology
The  toxicological  properties  of  saxagliptin  were  assessed  as  part  of  the  MAA  for  Onglyza,  and  the 
toxicological  properties  of  metformin  are  well  known  from  previous  animal  studies  and  extensive 
clinical use. The nonclinical safety of the combination of saxagliptin and metformin was evaluated in a 
repeat-dose  oral  toxicity  study  in  dogs  and  a  series  of  embryo-fetal  development  studies  in  rats  and 
rabbits.  All  pivotal  studies  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP  regulations  and  according  to 
International Conference of Harmonization (ICH) guidelines.
Single dose toxicity
A  (non-GLP)  single  dose  combination  toxicity  study  in  dogs  was  performed  in  order  to  determine  the 
toxicokinetic profile of saxagliptin and metformin, and to assess the tolerability of both compounds. 
Beagle  dogs    were  administered  saxagliptin  (1,  5,  or  10  mg/kg),  metformin  (10,  20  or  40  mg/kg)  or 
saxagliptin/metformin  (5/20  mg/kg)  individually  and  in  combination. Clinical  signs  in  the  single  dose 
toxicity  study  in  dogs  were  limited  to  faecal  findings  (unformed  faeces,  etc.)  with  saxagliptin  and 
metformin  dosed  separately. The faecal observations  in dogs  given  the  combination were  comparable 
to those in the dogs given high dose metformin alone. Therefore, there were no unique or synergistic 
toxicities resulting from the combination.
Repeat dose toxicity
A three month, GLP-compliant combination toxicity study of saxagliptin in combination with metformin 
has  been  provided,  in  accordance  with  the  Guideline  on  the  non-clinical  development  of  fixed-
combinations  of  medicinal  products  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005).  The  dose  selection  was  based 
on a 2-week range-finding study. The dog was selected as the species for evaluation since studies with 
saxagliptin  had  demonstrated  increased  sensitivity  in  dog  including  dose-limiting  gastrointestinal 
toxicity and at very high doses, enteropathy.
The combinations of saxagliptin and metformin at 1/20 and 5/20 mg/kg/day were well tolerated. Soft, 
liquid,  and/or  red  faeces  were  noted  with  comparable  incidence  in  all  groups.  Saxagliptin-related 
findings  consisted  of  mucoid  material  (faecal/non-faecal)  in  both  sexes  and  clear  eye  discharge 
predominately  in  females.  Both  findings  showed  comparable  incidence  across  all  groups  given  the 
combination  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin.  Metformin-related  findings  consisted  of  salivation  and 
sporadic  tremors/shivers.  Salivation  occurred  at  a  comparable  incidence  across  all  groups  given 
metformin alone and together with saxagliptin. Transient tremors/shivers were increased in dogs in the 
combination  group  of  the  toxicology  study.  In  the  group  receiving  only  saxagliptin,  no  tremors  were 
observed. In the groups metformin only, and metformin in combination with 1 mg/kg/day saxagliptin, 
one dog had a single incidence of tremors. In the high dose combination however, three males and two 
females  had four and seven  occurrences  of tremors  respectively. The finding was  sporadic and at the 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 14/77
beginning  of  the  study  only,  it  was  assessed  to  be  behaviour  based  and  no  histological  change  was 
observed,  the  tremors  were  not  associated  with  hypoglycaemia,  and  no  such  effect  was  seen  in 
pregnant rats or rabbits. It has been shown before that metformin causes adverse effects on the brain 
in dogs, when dosed with 50 mg/kg/day or higher. It could therefore be possible that the combination 
with high dose saxagliptin can exaggerate this effect, and that tremors and shivers occur before there 
is  any  sign  of damage. Since  this  only occurs  in  combination  with  very  high dose  saxagliptin  (80-fold 
the  human  exposure),  a  relevance  for  humans  is  unlikely.  Furthermore,  this  observation  was  not 
considered toxicologically relevant due to low incidence, sporadical at the beginning of the study, were 
not associated with hypoglycaemia or neurological effects or histological changes. 
Decreases  in  mean  body  weight  gain  (up  to  9%  body  weight  difference  at  dose  completion)  were 
observed in females dosed with saxagliptin/metformin at 5/20 mg/kg/day and in males in all 3 groups 
given  metformin  (alone or  in  combination)  compared  to  dogs  given  saxagliptin alone. This  effect  was 
considered  related  to  metformin  since  it  was  observed  at  a  similar  magnitude  in  male  dogs  given 
metformin alone or in combination with saxagliptin.
NOAEL for the combination of saxagliptin and metformin was 5/20 mg/kg/day (mean AUC(0-T) levels for 
saxagliptin,  BMS-510849,  and  metformin  of  ≤  5530,  ≤  7130,  and  ≤  30000  ng•h/mL,  equating  to 
≤68×, 16×, and 1.5× the MRHD).
Genotoxicity
The  combination  saxagliptin/metformin  has  not  been  tested  for  genotoxicity.  As  both  separate 
substances have been shown to have no genotoxic potential, this was acceptable.
Carcinogenicity
Saxagliptin  was  not  carcinogenic  in  2-year  rat  and  mouse  studies.  Metformin  showed  an  increase  in 
benign  stromal  uterine  polyps  in  rats  at  high  doses.  Extensive  clinical  experience  does  not  indicate  a 
relevance  for  humans.  Consequently,  further  studies  on  the  combination  product  were  not  necessary 
and the combination saxagliptin/metformin has not been tested for carcinogenicity.
Reproduction Toxicity
A complete battery of reproductive and developmental toxicity studies were conducted with saxagliptin 
as  part  of  the  MAA  for  Onglyza.  A  similar  battery  of  studies  had  been  performed  with  metformin. 
Although metformin was associated with mortality in rabbits, none of the substances were associated 
with  reproductive  or  developmental  toxicity.  Effects  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  alone  and  in 
combination were evaluated in embryo-fetal development studies in rats and rabbits. 
Embryo-fetal toxicity studies in rats and rabbits were performed by individual and combined dosing of 
saxagliptin  and  metformin.  In  rabbits,  co-administration  of  saxaliptin  and  metformin  was  poorly 
tolerated  by  the  does,  but  no  teratogenic  effects  were  observed.  In  rats,  craniorachischisis  was 
observed in 2 fetuses from a single litter when saxagliptin and metformin were administered at 25/200 
mg/kg/day.  One  of  these  fetuses  also  had  a  cleft  palate.  The  occurrence  of  craniorachischisis  was 
considered  to  be  within  historical  control  levels.  These  findings  were  not  reproduced  in  a  second  rat 
study at saxagliptin/metformin doses of 25/600 mg/kg/day. 
As metformin showed no effect on fertility in previous studies, and for saxagliptin effects were only seen 
at doses far in excess of the recommended human dose, additional studies to assess toxicity of the fixed 
combination to fertility and early embryonic development, parturition, pre- and postnatal development, 
or on juvenile animals were deemed unnecessary.
The  reproductive/developmental  toxicological  profile  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  were  considered 
sufficiently characterised; studies on fertility and pre- and postnatal development were therefore seen 
not warranted. 
Toxicokinetic data
Toxicokinetics were assessed as part of the three month toxicity study in dogs, and in the embryo-fetal 
developmental studies in rats and rabbits. Systemic plasma exposures to saxagliptin, its major active 
metabolite BMS-510849, and metformin were assessed in dogs and pregnant rats and rabbits following 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 15/77
Rev06.11
oral  administration  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin.  Validated  LC-MS/MS  methods  were 
used  for  determination  of  plasma  levels  of  saxagliptin,  the  saxagliptin  metabolite  BMS-510849,  and 
metformin  in  dog,  rat  and  rabbit  plasma. At  steady  state,  increases  in  saxagliptin  AUC  levels  were 
approximately  dose  proportional  in  the  1/20  and  5/20  mg/kg/day  saxagliptin/metformin  combination 
groups. Exposures to BMS-510849 were approximately 0.9 to 2.24× those of saxagliptin. Exposures to 
saxagliptin,  BMS-510849, and  metformin  were  similar  regardless  of  individual  or  combination  dosing, 
with no gender-related difference or accumulation.
Exposure  levels  for  metformin  in  the  repeat  dose  combination  study  were  only  ≥  1.4  times  human 
exposure  at  maximum  recommended  human  dose.  According  to  the  Guideline  on  the  non-clinical 
development of  fixed-combinations of medicinal  products,  the  non-clinical  studies  should  be designed 
in  such  a  way  that  the  exposure  range  encompasses  the  anticipated  human  clinical  situation  while 
avoiding  high-dose  non-clinical  effects  that  may  be  irrelevant to  human  safety  assessment.  The  dose 
level in the repeat dose study fulfilled this and was therefore considered acceptable.
Local Tolerance 
The  intended  clinical  route  of  administration  is  oral,  and  studies  of  local  tolerance  have  therefore not 
been performed. 
Other toxicity studies
No additional studies have been conducted with the combination.
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
As  this  application  concerned  two  known  active  substances  that  substitute  the  use  of  the  separate 
substances,  the  use of  the  substances will  not  increase and no  new  ERA is  required. The  ERA for  the 
separate active substances can be used for this combination. 
The  risk  of  adverse  environmental  impacts  from  use  of  saxagliptin  has  been  evaluated  in  Phase  I, 
Phase II Tier A, and Tier  B  (on  sediment  dwelling organisms)  environmental  risk assessments. Based 
on the results presented, saxagliptin is not expected to pose a risk to the environment.
A  partial  ERA  has  been  presented  for  metformin.  Due  to  PEC  surface  water  >  0.01,  a  Phase  II 
assessment  has  been  performed.  Two  of  the  tests  in  Phase  II  (adsorption/desorption  test  and  ready 
biodegradability) were not performed in accordance with the protocols recommended in the guideline, 
and  three  other  tests  (Aerobic  and  Anaerobic  Transformation  Test  (OECD  308),  the  Early  Life  Stage 
Toxicity  Test  in  Fish  (OECD  210),  and  the  Activated  Sludge,  Respiration  Inhibition  Test  (OECD  209)) 
were  omitted.  Consequently,  the  ERA  for  metformin was  not  in  accordance with  the  Guideline  on  the 
Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00). However, 
based  on  the  submitted  data,  the  applicant  argued  that  no  appreciable  risk  has  been  identified  for 
metformin, which was acceptable.
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects
The MAA concerned two known substances that are already approved as free combination therapy. As 
such,  new  non-clinical  studies  were  not  required  (Guideline  on  the  non-clinical  Development  of  Fixed 
Combinations of Medicinal Products, EMEA/CHMP/SWP//258498/2005). 
The pharmacodynamic properties of saxagliptin and metformin suggest an additive effect when used in 
combination  for  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes.  The  exact  mechanism  of  action  for  the  anti-
hyperglycaemic  effects  of  metformin  is  not  known.  However,  interaction  with  saxagliptin  is  not 
expected,  as  indicated  by  overall  different  mechanisms  of  action  between  saxagliptin  and  metformin. 
This  was  further  substantiated  by  existing  clinical  experience  with  the  free  combination  of  saxagliptin 
and  metformin,  and  by  other,  marketed  gliptin/metformin  combinations,  and  therefore  pharmacology 
studies  and  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  with  saxagliptin/metformin  were  not  considered  as 
needed. 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 16/77
Based  on  the  known  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin,  no  adverse 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  expected.  The  lack  of  additional  pharmacokinetic  studies  was 
therefore accepted.
No dedicated safety pharmacology studies were performed with saxagliptin/metformin. However, since 
the experience of concomitant use of saxagliptin and metformin is limited, a 3-month repeat oral dose 
toxicity  study  in  dogs  has  been  performed  and  potential  cardiovascular,  central  nervous  and 
respiratory effects were evaluated. No significant effects were seen following single and repeated doses 
of saxagliptin, metformin or  saxagliptin/metformin. Single  incidences of  slight  tremors were  observed 
in all males administered saxagliptin/metformin at 5/20 mg/kg/day, and in some females administered 
metformin  alone  or  saxagliptin/metformin.    A  potential  metformin  relation  could  not  be  excluded. 
However, due to the mild level of tremors, sporadic occurrence, and extensive clinical experience with 
the use of metformin, the tremors were not considered clinically relevant.
No  additional  findings  were  reported  in  the  combined  saxagliptin/metformin  dosing  groups  compared 
with the saxagliptin or metformin dosing groups, and NOAEL for saxagliptin/metformin in the 3-month 
toxicity  study  is  ≥  5/20  mg/kg/day.    Exposure  levels  for  metformin  in  the  repeat  dose  combination 
study  were  only  ≥  1.4  times  human  exposure  at  maximum  recommended  human  dose.  However, 
according to the Guideline on the non-clinical development of fixed-combinations of medicinal products, 
the  non-clinical  studies  should  be  designed  in  such  a  way  that  the  exposure  range  encompasses  the 
anticipated human clinical situation while avoiding high-dose non-clinical effects that may be irrelevant 
to  human  safety  assessment.  The  dose  level  in  the  repeat  dose  study  is  therefore  considered 
acceptable.
The  reproductive/developmental  toxicological  profile  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  is  considered 
sufficiently  characterised, and  studies  on  fertility  and  pre-  and  postnatal  development  were  therefore 
not  required.  In  support  of  the  fixed  dose  MAA,  effects  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  alone  and  in 
combination  were  evaluated  in  embryo-fetal  development  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits.  While  no 
teratogenic  effects  were  observed  in  rabbits,  craniorachischisis  was  observed  in  rats,  but  the 
occurrence appeard to be within historical control levels, and was not observed in a second rat study.
Overall,  the  reproductive/developmental  toxicological  profile  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  were
considered  sufficiently  characterised;  studies  on  fertility  and  pre-  and  postnatal  development  were
therefore seen not warranted.
Based  on  the  results  from  the  submitted  ERA,  saxagliptin  is  not  considered  to  pose  a  risk  to  the 
environment. A marketing authorisation for Komboglyze is not expected to cause a significant increase 
of environmental exposure to metformin, and a formal ERA for metformin was not required.
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects
The  MAA  for  Komboglyze  concerns  two  known  substances  that  are  already  approved  as  free 
combination  therapy.  As  such,  new  non-clinical  studies  were generally  not  required  (Guideline  on the 
non-clinical 
Products, 
EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005), and the applicant provided sufficient data to support that view.
Combinations 
Development 
Medicinal 
Fixed 
of 
of 
2.4.  Clinical aspects
2.4.1.  Introduction
The applicant has  submitted an application  in accordance  with  Directive 2001/83/EC Article  10b  for a 
European  Marketing  Authorisation  for  their  product,  film  coated  tablets,  containing  a  fixed  dose 
combination (FDC) of saxagliptin and metformin. 
Saxagliptin (Onglyza), a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 - (DPP-4) inhibitor, was approved for marketing in EU 
in October 2009 for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in combination with metformin, 
sulfonylurea or thiazolidinedione. The recommended dose is 5 mg once daily.
Metformin is a biguanide and the most commonly used first-line agent in patients with T2DM worldwide.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 17/77
Metformin is approved in adults as monotherapy and in combination with other anti-diabetic agents or 
insulin, and  in  children and adolescents from  10 years  of age as  monotherapy or  in  combination with 
insulin.
Most of the studies presented in the dossier had been already submitted and evaluated in the previous 
MAA, which  lead to the approval of Onglyza  (saxagliptin),  which  is approved for  the combined use of 
saxagliptin with metformin.
The dossier submitted initially did not provide a sufficient comparison between 2 x 2.5 mg dosing and 
1 x 5  mg dosing of saxagliptin. Therefore, following a Major Objection raised by the CHMP in the day 
120 
list  of  questions,  the  applicant  has  conducted  Study  CV181152,  a  pharmacokinetic 
(PK)/pharmacodynamic  (PD)  study,  in  response  to  the  request,  which  was  then  submitted  and 
evaluated during the procedure.
A BE study has been conducted with the EU metformin formulation for 2.5/850 mg.
Children  were  not  included  in  the  clinical  studies.  A  paediatric  investigation  plan,  including  a  product 
specific waiver, was granted 1 December 2009 (EMEA-000644-PIP01-09).
The most relevant guidelines for this application are:

Note for Guidance on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of Diabetes 
Mellitus (CPMP/EWP/1080/00)
 Guidance  on  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  in  the  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus 
(CPMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1) (draft guideline)
 Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr *)
 Guideline 
Fixed  Combination  Medicinal 
on  Clinical  Development 
of 
Products 
(CHMP/EWP//240/95 Rev. 1)
No formal CHMP Scientific Advice was given specifically for this fixed combination product.
The clinical development program included data from 7 phase 3 studies. A total of 4326 subjects were 
randomised  and  treated,  including  2158  receiving  saxagliptin  plus  metformin.  Data  included  in  this 
submission reflect up to 102 weeks total duration of treatment.
Table 1: overview of Phase 3 studies included in this application
Study No.
Study objectives
Saxagliptin + Metformin
Randomised 
and treated
All/Saxa
Duration
Saxagliptin (mg) dose
CV181014
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
743/564
24 weeks
(206 weeks)
2.5, 5, or 10 QD
(+metformin)
Saxagliptin + Metformin Initial Combination
CV181039
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 8%-12%)
1306/978
24 weeks
(76 weeks)
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 6.5%-10%)
Saxagliptin + Metformin versus Glipizide + metformin
CV181054
(D1680C00001)
Saxagliptin + Metformin vs Sitagliptin + Met
CV181056
(D1680C00002)
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID + Metformin vs placebo + metformin
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 6.5%-10%)
838 / 419
710 / 355
52 weeks
(104 weeks)
18 weeks
5 or 10 QD 
(+metformin)
or 10 mg QD
5 mg (+ metformin IR)
5 mg (+ metformin IR)
CV181080
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
160/74
12 weeks
2x2.5 mg (+ metformin 
IR)
Saxagliptin + Metformin XR (PM dosing)
CV181066
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
Saxagliptin Monotherapy (with PM dosing arm)
93/46
4 weeks
5 mg (+ metformin XR)
CV181038
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
365/291
24 weeks
(52 weeks)
2.5 QAM, 5QAM, 2.5/5 
QAM, 5 QPM, all 
titratable to 10 mg
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 18/77
The 7 main studies are summarized at the end of the efficacy section.
GCP
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant.
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics
Saxagliptin/metformin  FDC  IR  tablets  have  been  developed  at  dose  strengths  of  2.5  mg 
saxagliptin/850 mg metformin, and 2.5 mg saxagliptin/1000 mg metformin. 
The  FDC  tablet  is  formulated  by  coating  a  metformin  core  tablet  with  saxagliptin  and  uses  similar 
coating  technology  as  the  commercial  saxagliptin  tablet  (ONGLYZA),  with  the  exception  that  for  the 
FDC, the saxagliptin coating layers are applied to a metformin core, rather than onto an inert core.
The application contained initially six clinical PK studies, with a total of 118 healthy adult subjects 
receiving saxagliptin, 72 of those receiving the combination of saxagliptin and metformin. One study is 
a PK and PD study with saxagliptin BID, three studies are bioequivalence studies with saxagliptin and 
metformin, and two studies are drug-drug-interaction studies with saxagliptin. No study compared the 
previously approved posology of 5 mg QD with the applied posology of 2.5 mg BID. Thus a direct 
comparison between these doses was not possible and a new study comparing saxagliptin 5 mg QD to 
2.5 mg BID was requested druing the procedure as part of the day 120 list of questions.
Bioquivalence between the fixed-dose saxagliptin/metformin combination formulation and the dosing of 
saxagliptin and metformin with separate tablets was found under both fasted and fed states. Peak and 
total exposures for saxagliptin and metformin were similar in three studies with different metformin 
doses. However, only in one study (CV181121 with 850 mg metformin) the metformin tablet was EU-
sourced (Glucophage®).  The 500 mg and 1000 mg metformin tablets, used in the two other studies,
were US-marketed and these studies are therefore of less significance.
Therefore, study CV181121 was considered pivotal, as it compared the rate and extent of absorption of 
both saxagliptin and metformin administered as the individual tablets (2.5 mg saxagliptin and 850 mg 
metformin  [EU-sourced])  to  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/850  mg  metformin  FDC  under  fed  and  fasting 
conditions.
In  accordance  with  guidance  from  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (see  CHMP 
Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioequivalence  2010),  a  waiver  for  demonstrating  in  vivo 
bioequivalence  of  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/1000  mg  metformin  strength  FDC  compared  with  2.5  mg 
saxagliptin plus 1000 mg EU-sourced metformin is based on:
•  Demonstration  of  bioequivalence  of  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/850  mg  metformin  FDC  tablet  (study 
CV181121) to co-administered 2.5 mg saxagliptin and EU-sourced 850 mg metformin 
• Formulation composition proportionality of the 2.5 mg saxagliptin/1000 mg metformin FDC to the 2.5 
mg saxagliptin/850 mg metformin FDC, on which bioequivalence testing was undertaken 
•  Similar  in  vitro  dissolution  profiles  with  regard  to  both  saxagliptin  and  metformin  for  the  2.5  mg 
saxagliptin/850 mg metformin FDC and 2.5 mg saxagliptin/1000 mg metformin FDC tablets 
Based on  these  results and  assessments,  the Applicant was  requesting a waiver  for  demonstrating  in 
vivo bioequivalence of the 2.5 mg saxagliptin/1000 mg metformin FDC versus 2.5 mg saxagliptin plus 
EU-sourced 1000 mg metformin. Since metformin has a non-linear saturation kinetics due to saturable 
intestinal absorption and the test and reference products do not contain any excipients that may affect 
gastrointestinal  motility  or  transport  proteins,  it  is  sufficient  to  demonstrate  bioequivalence  at  the 
lowest  strength.  Therefore,  this  approach  for  a  biowaiver  for  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/1000  mg 
metformin  strength  FDC  compared  with  2.5  mg  saxagliptin  plus  1000  mg  EU-sourced  metformin  was 
acceptable.
The  analytical  methods  were  validated  and  are  adequate  for  accurate  analysis  of  saxagliptin  and 
metformin in human plasma. The bioanalytical and validation reports were submitted.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 19/77
Bioequivalence  study  CV181121  showed  that  the  criteria  for  bioequivalence  of  saxagliptin  and 
metformin  from  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/850  mg  metformin  FDC  compared  to  co-administered  2.5  mg 
saxagliptin and 850 mg EU-sourced metformin under both fed and fasted conditions were met for Cmax, 
AUC(INF) and AUC(0-T). The 90% confidence intervals for the point estimates of Cmax, AUC(INF), and 
AUC(0-T), were within the  acceptance  criteria  of 0.8  to  1.25  to  conclude  bioequivalence  under  fasted 
and fed conditions. The CV found in the bioequivalence study was moderate with a CV for saxagliptin 
and metformin Cmax and AUC being between 18 and 24%.
Influence of food
Food  causes  a  slightly  increased  Tmax  (4  hours  instead  3  hours)  of  metformin  in  the  FDC  tablet. 
Additionally, the AUC decreases with approximately 4% and the Cmax with 11%. This is in accordance 
with  the  results  obtained  with  the  separate  metformin  tablets,  SPC  of  Glucophage,  and  literature 
reports, where even higher numbers of 25% and 40%, respectively are reported. This food interaction 
is  of  low  clinical  significance  as  metformin  should  be  given  concomitantly  or  just  after  a  meal  to 
prevent  gastro-intestinal  side  effects.  The  new  combination  tablet  is  also  to  be  given  in  combination 
with a meal according to the SPC. 
Comparison of the 5 mg once daily with the twice daily 2.5 mg saxagliptin treatment 
The  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of  saxagliptin  and  BMS-510849  following  BID  administration  of 
saxagliptin  were  investigated  in  an  open  label  study  in  healthy  subjects  (CV181091).  The 
pharmacokinetic  data  were  compared  with  study  CV181034,  in  which  a  single  10  mg  dose  of 
saxagliptin was administered with a high-fat breakfast (CV181034).
The total daily exposure to saxagliptin and BMS-510849, as expressed by dose-normalized AUC, during 
administration  of  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  for  7  days  with  meals,  were  approximately  similar  to  that 
achieved when saxagliptin 5 mg was given as a single dose with a meal. Also, as would be expected, 
when  extrapolation is  made to the  Cmax value  following  the  5  mg  dose the Cmax will  be approximately 
twice as high as the Cmax value following the 2.5 mg dose (see table below). 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 20/77
Table 2
Dose-normalized Pharmacokinetics of Saxagliptin and BMS-510849
Following Administration of a Single Saxagliptin Dose or Saxagliptin
BID for 7 Days With Food in Studies CV181091 and CV181034
Results from these two studies were chosen for pharmacokinetic comparisons between once and twice 
daily  administration  because  saxagliptin  was  administered  as  a  tablet  with  food  in  both  studies.  The 
applicant gave several reasons to indicate validity of this comparison.
The Applicant has conducted one additional the PK/PD study CV181152 comparing saxagliptin 2.5 mg 
BID with 5 mg QD. The Applicant had submitted  initially an intermediate analysis of this PK/PD study
but a final report was provided during the procedure and was found to be satisfactory. Results of the 
study  indicate  the  bioequivalence  of  daily  exposures  of  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  and  5  mg  QD. 
Geometric  mean  Cmax  values  following  the  AM  and  PM  doses  of  the  2.5  mg  BID  treatment  were,  as 
expected, approximately half of those observed in the 5 mg QD treatment. The CHMP agreed that the 
lower Cmax is of no clinical concern, as the total exposure (AUC) of saxagliptin for the 2 regimens were 
bioequivalent.  Furthermore,  PD  effects  of  the  2  regimens  met  the  well-established  standard  for 
concluding bioequivalence (see also pharmacodynamic and clinical sections below). 
Table 3: Summary Statistics of Saxagliptin Pharmacokinetic Parameters on Day 7 and 
Results of Bioequivalence Testing
Parameter
Statistics
Treatment A
(5 mg QD)
(N=16)
Treatment B
(2.5 mg BID)
AM
(N=16)
Treatment B
(2.5 mg BID)
PM
(N=16)
C max
(ng/mL) 
T max
(h) 
AUC(TAU) 
(ng•h /mL) 
AUC(0-24h)
(ng•h /mL)
Geo. Mean 
 (CV%) 
Median   
 (Range) 
Geo. Mean 
 (CV%) 
Geo. Mean
(CV%)
Ratio (%) (Treatment B/A) of 
geometric LS Mean for AUC(0-24 h)
(90% CI)
24.01 
(22.54%)
1.50 
(0.53-2.00) 
99.27 
 (15.15%) 
99.27
(15.15%)
12.75 
 (21.80%) 
1.78 
(0.50-3.00) 
51.10 
 (13.83%) 
10.87 
 (34.33%)
2.00 
 (1.00-5.00)
52.17
 (15.72%)
103.32
(14.45%)
104.08%
(101.03-107.22%)
Abbreviations: CV = coefficient of variation, Geo. Mean = geometric mean from summary statistics, CI 
= confidence interval
As an interaction study between saxagliptin and metformin (see CV181017 CSR) with the orginal MAA 
for Onglyza has shown no clinically meaningful effect of saxagliptin on metformin PK and vice versa, no
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 21/77
Rev06.11
additional studies were needed with that regard for the subsequent section on pharmacokinetics with 
the fixed dose combination product beyond the data available for the individual components.
Absorption 
No  absolute  bioavailability  clinical  studies  were  conducted  for  the  saxagliptin/metformin  IR
development program.
Saxagliptin  is  rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  administration  in  the  fasted  state,  with  maximum  plasma 
concentrations  (Cmax)  of  saxagliptin  and  its  major  metabolite  attained  within  2 and  4 hours  (Tmax), 
respectively. 
Food  had  relatively  modest  effects  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  saxagliptin  in  healthy  subjects. 
Administration  with  food  (a  high-fat  meal)  resulted  in  no  change  in  saxagliptin  Cmax  and  a  27% 
increase  in  AUC  compared  with  the  fasted  state.  These  changes  were  not  considered  to  be  clinically 
meaningful.
Food decreases the extent and slightly delays the absorption of metformin. Following administration of 
a  dose  of  850 mg,  a  40%  lower  plasma  peak  concentration,  a  25%  decrease  in  AUC  and  a  35 min 
prolongation  of  time  to  peak  plasma  concentration  was  observed.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this 
decrease is unknown.
Distribution
No additional studies were conducted for the saxagliptin/metformin IR development program.
The in vitro protein binding of saxagliptin and its major metabolite in human serum is negligible. Thus, 
changes  in  blood  protein  levels  in  various  disease  states  (e.g.,  renal  or  hepatic  impairment)  are  not 
expected to alter the disposition of saxagliptin.
Elimination
No additional studies were conducted for the saxagliptin/metformin IR development program.
The biotransformation of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by cytochrome P450 3A4/5 (CYP3A4/5). The 
major  metabolite  of  saxagliptin  is  also  a  selective,  reversible,  competitive  DPP-4  inhibitor,  half  as 
potent as saxagliptin.
The mean plasma terminal half-life (t1/2) values for saxagliptin and its major metabolite are 2.5 hours 
and  3.1 hours  respectively,  and  the  mean  t1/2  value  for  plasma  DPP-4  inhibition  was  26.9 hours. 
Saxagliptin is eliminated by both renal and hepatic pathways. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies
No specific PK study was conducted with regard to dose proportionality and time dependency with the 
saxagliptin/metformin FDC tablet. In general this is acceptable for this kind of application. 
Special populations
No additional studies were conducted for the saxagliptin/metformin IR development program.
Renal impairment 
In  subjects  with  mild  (> 50  to  ≤ 80 ml/min),  moderate  (≥ 30  to  ≤ 50 ml/min),  or  severe 
(19-30 ml/min)  renal  impairment  the  exposures  to  saxagliptin  were  1.2-,  1.4-  and  2.1-fold  higher, 
respectively,  and  the  exposures  to  BMS-510849  were  1.7-,  2.9-,  and  4.5-fold  higher,  respectively, 
than  those  observed  in  subjects  with  normal  renal  function  (> 80 ml/min).  However,  Komboglyze  is 
contraindicated  in  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  < 60 ml/min)  in  any 
case due to the metformin component (see section 4.4 of the SPC)
Hepatic impairment
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 22/77
In subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A), moderate (Child-Pugh Class B), or severe (Child-Pugh Class 
C)  hepatic  impairment  the  exposures to  saxagliptin  were  1.1-,  1.4-  and  1.8-fold  higher,  respectively, 
and the exposures to BMS-510849 were 22%, 7%, and 33% lower, respectively, than those observed 
in healthy subjects. Komboglyze is contraindicated in hepatic impairment (see section 4.4 of the SPC)
Elderly patients (≥ 65 years)
Elderly  patients  (65-80 years)  had  about  60%  higher  saxagliptin  AUC  than  young  patients  (18-40 
years).  This  was  not  considered  clinically  meaningful,  therefore,  in  the  SPC  no  dose  adjustment  for 
Komboglyze is recommended on the basis of age alone.
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies
As  reported  in  the  original  saxagliptin  registration  dossier,  a  2-way  drug-drug  interaction  study 
between  saxagliptin and metformin  (see CV181017  CSR)  has  shown  no  clinically  meaningful effect of 
saxagliptin on metformin PK and vice versa. 
No  additional  studies  were  conducted  for  the  saxagliptin/metformin  IR  development  program  for  this 
application
Saxagliptin  exerted  no  relevant  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  estrogenic  and  progestational 
components of a  combined  oral  contraceptive. When  saxagliptin  was  co-administered  with  rifampicin, 
the geometric mean Cmax and AUC(INF) values for saxagliptin were 53% and 76% lower, respectively, 
compared to when saxagliptin was administered alone, and the corresponding values for BMS-510849 
were  39%  and  3%  higher,  respectively.  These  findings  are  consistent  with  the  in  vivo induction  of 
CYP3A- mediated metabolism of saxagliptin by rifampicin. 
Studies  examining  metformin  only  were  not  conducted  as  part  of  the  saxagliptin/metformin  IR 
development  program  because  metformin  IR  has  been  extensively  characterized  already,  and  is  a 
widely approved and established agent for treating Type 2 diabetes. 
This approach was found to be acceptable for this kind of application by CHMP.
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
N/A
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics
Mechanism of action
The product combines two antihyperglycaemic products with complementary mechanisms of action to 
improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients  with  type 2 diabetes:  saxagliptin,  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase  4 
(DPP-4) inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride, a member of the biguanide class.
The  mechanism  of  action  of  saxagliptin  was summarised  in  the  original  saxagliptin  submission.  The 
results demonstrated plasma DPP4 activity inhibition in support of a 5 mg once daily dose.
Primary and Secondary pharmacology
Saxagliptin  is  a  highly  potent,  selective,  reversible,  competitive,  DPP-4  inhibitor.  In  patients  with 
type 2 diabetes, administration of  saxagliptin  led  to inhibition  of DPP-4 enzyme  activity  for a 24-hour 
period. After an oral glucose load, this DPP-4 inhibition resulted in a 2-to 3-fold increase in circulating 
levels  of  active  incretin  hormones,  including  glucagon-like  peptide-1  (GLP-1)  and  glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic  polypeptide (GIP),  decreased glucagon  concentrations and  increased glucose-dependent 
beta-cell  responsiveness,  which  resulted  in  higher  insulin  and  C-peptide  concentrations.  The  rise  in 
insulin  from  pancreatic  beta-cells  and  the  decrease  in  glucagon  from  pancreatic  alpha-cells  were 
associated  with  lower  fasting  glucose  concentrations  and  reduced  glucose  excursion  following  an  oral 
glucose  load  or  a  meal.  Saxagliptin  improves  glycaemic  control  by  reducing  fasting  and  postprandial 
glucose concentrations in patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 23/77
Metformin is a biguanide with antihyperglycaemic effects, lowering both basal and postprandial plasma 
glucose.  It  does  not  stimulate  insulin  secretion  and  therefore  does  not  produce  hypoglycaemia.  The 
mechanism  of  action  is  unknown,  but  the  following  mechanisms  have  been  suggested:  reduction  of 
hepatic  glucose  production  by  inhibiting  gluconeogenesis  and  glycogenolysis  in  muscle;  modestly 
increasing  insulin  sensitivity,  improving  peripheral  glucose  uptake  and  utlisation;  delaying  intestinal 
glucose  absorption.  Metformin  stimulates  intracellular  glycogen  synthesis  by  acting  on  glycogen 
synthase.  Metformin  increases  the  transport  capacity  of  specific  types  of  membrane  glucose 
transporters (GLUT-1 and GLUT-4).
Pharmacodynamic studies
In  support  of  the  BID  dosing  of  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  originally  one  study  was  submitted  (CV181091). 
This  was  an  open-label,  non-randomized,  single-sequence  study  in  12  healthy  subjects.  Subjects 
received  2.5  mg  saxagliptin  with  breakfast  and  dinner  for  7  days.  The  main  pharmacodynamic 
variables measured were plasma DPP-4 activity and post-prandial GLP-1 plasma concentrations.
Plasma DPP-4 inhibition 
In  Study  CV181091  following  twice  daily  administration  of  2.5-mg  saxagliptin  with  meals  for  7  days, 
the plasma DPP-4 activity was almost completely inhibited as compared to the baseline DPP-4 activity 
(Day -1). 
Plasma DPP-4 inhibition and PD parameters on Day 7 are summarized by morning (with breakfast) and 
evening (with dinner) doses in the Table 4.
Pharmacodynamic  steady-state  is  achieved  after  7  days  of  BID  dosing  of  saxagliptin.  Trough  DPP-4 
inhibition is similar (~80% inhibited from baseline) from each dose on Day 7. As compared to baseline 
values,  plasma  DPP-4  activity  is  almost  completely  inhibited  after  BID  (morning  and  evening)  dosing 
with  2.5-mg  saxagliptin  with  meals.  On  Day  7,  the  mean  peak  DPP-4  inhibition  from  baseline  was  > 
85% after the morning and evening doses.
Table 4: Summary Statistics for Plasma DPP-4 Inhibition Pharmacodynamic Parameters 
Study181091
Plasma GLP-1 Activity
In Study CV181091 compared with Day -1, the geometric means AUC(0-3 h) for plasma GLP-1 were
2.44-, 2.17- and 3.13-fold higher on Day 7 for breakfast, lunch and dinner, respectively. Plasma GLP-1 
PD parameters are summarized by meal and study day in the Table 5. Results indicate that the DPP-4 
inhibitory effects of 2.5-mg saxagliptin when given BID result in an increase in post-prandial plasma 
GLP-1 concentrations.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 24/77
Table 5: Summary Statistics for Plasma iGLP-1 Pharmacodynamic Parameters Following BID 
Administration of Saxagliptin with Breakfast and Dinner Study181091
Comparison of saxagliptin PD following a single 5 mg dose of saxagliptin (Study CV181059) 
versus 2.5 mg saxagliptin BID (Study CV181091).
The  cross  study  comparison  was  made  with  data  of  the  CV181059  study  that  has  been  submitted 
during  the  Onglyza  (saxagliptin)  MAA  review.  In  this  study  one  of  the  secondary  objectives  was  to 
assess the safety and tolerability of a single 5 mg dose of saxagliptin in the presence and absence of 
rifampin  in  healthy  subjects.  The  data  obtained  in  the  absence  of  rifampin  are  used  in  table  6  for 
comparison with 2.5 mg saxagliptin BID dosing for 7 days. Plasma DPP4 was inhibited when saxagliptin 
was  administered  as  a  single  5  mg  dose  or  2.5  mg  BID  for  7  days.  Similar  Imax  and AUEC(0-24  h) 
values were observed  when  saxagliptin was administered as a  single 5  mg dose or 2.5  mg BID  for  7 
days.
Table 6: Comparison of plasma DPP4 inhibition PD parameters of saxagliptin when 
administered as a single dose versus BID for 7 days in studies CV181091 and CV181059
Pharmacodynamic results from the new study CV181152:
DPP4 inhibition:
Summary statistics of PD parameters of DPP4 percentage inhibition on Day 7 following 2.5 mg BID and 
5 mg QD dosing of saxagliptin are presented in table 7.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 25/77
On  Day  7,  following  multiple  dosing  of  saxagliptin,  geometric  mean  Imax  values  of  DPP4  inhibition 
were 82.00%, 82.03% and 81.36% following the 5 mg QD, 2.5 mg BID AM and PM doses, respectively, 
indicating  that  the  plasma  DPP4 activity  was  almost  completely  inhibited  regardless  of  whether  a  2.5 
mg BID or 5 mg QD dose was administered. Thus, despite the fact that plasma saxagliptin Cmax after 
administration  of  2.5  mg  BID  was  approximately  half  that  of  5  mg  QD  dosing,  the  Imax  of  DPP4 
activity was similar between these 2 dosing regimens. The DPP4 inhibition following 2.5 mg BID dosing 
of saxagliptin is equivalent to the 5 mg saxagliptin QD dosing.
Table 7: Summary Statistics of DPP4 Percentage Inhibition Following 5 mg QD and 2.5 mg
BID Dosing of Saxagliptin on Day 7 Study CV181152
iGLP-1 activity:
The  baseline  iGLP-1  activity  [Cmax  and  AUEC(0-3h)]  on  Day  -1  was  similar  between  saxagliptin 
regimen  of  2.5  mg  BID  and  5  mg  QD;  as  expected,  large  inter-subject  variation  was  observed.  The
iGLP-1  activity  elevation  by  multiple-dose  administration  of  saxagliptin  5  mg  QD  is  equivalent  to 
multiple-dose administration of saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID.
Discussion on pharmacodynamics
The applicant has demonstrated in the new Study CV181152, comparing saxagliptin 5 mg QD with 2.5 
mg BID that saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID is equivalent to saxagliptin 5 mg QD in terms of PD.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 26/77
Conclusions on pharmacodynamics
Therefore  study  CV181152  established  that  the  fixed  dose  combination  (FDC)  of  2.5  mg  saxagliptin 
and  metformin  BID  can  be  used  in  patients  who  are  already  treated  with  the  combination  of  5  mg 
saxagliptin OD and metformin as separate components (switch indication). 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology
In  Study  CV181091  the  pharmacodynamics  of  2.5-mg  saxagliptin  administered  BID  with  meals  was 
assessed  by  determining  plasma  DPP-4  activity  and  plasma  concentrations  of  its  substrate,  GLP-1. 
Saxagliptin  2.5  mg  twice  daily  resulted  in  trough  DPP-4  inhibition  of  80%.  However,  in  this  study  no 
direct comparison was made with 5 mg saxagliptin administered once daily. The applicant argued that 
in  the  literature  for  other  DPP-4  inhibitors,  non-clinical  studies  have  shown  that  DPP-4  inhibition  of 
80% or more was related to maximum effects in incretin response and glucose reduction (Roy RS et al. 
Diabetes 2009; 58(6) (Suppl), Abstr 2373-PO; Krishna R et al. AAPS J 2008; 10(2): 401-409), but this 
was  based  on  experimental  data  and  a  direct  comparison  with  as  single  5  mg  dose  would  have  been 
preferred.  Consequently,  the  applicant  carried  out  a  comparison  with  previously  obtained  data  of 
CV181059.  From this  comparison  it  can  be  concluded that,  when  saxagliptin  2.5  mg is administered 
BID, this twice daily regimen of saxagliptin will achieve the same daily level of plasma DDP4 inhibition 
as the already approved once daily treatment of 5 mg. However, this comparison was made between 
day 1 of the 5 mg dose and day 7 of the 2x2.5mg dose. On day 1 of the 5 mg dose, steady-state has 
not yet been reached. In the original MAA and with this application, no data were included of multiple 
doses of 5 mg in healthy volunteers.
Therefore,  as  requested  a  new  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  study  CV181152  comparing 
saxagliptin 5 mg QD with 2.5 mg BID was performed by the applicant. From the data provided in study 
CV181152 it could be concluded that the inhibition of DPP4 by saxagliptin after 2.5 mg BID regimen is 
equivalent to that by the 5 mg QD regimen. The increase in iGLP-1 activity by saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID 
was  equivalent  to  the  5  mg  QD  regimen.  There  was  a  difference  in  saxagliptin  plasma  Cmax  values 
between the two dosing regimens. Nevertheless the effects of 2.5 mg BID and 5 mg QD on DPP4 and 
iGLP-1 activity were comparable. This is consistent with the conclusion that saxagliptin Cmax, within this 
dose range, is less important for its activity. For pharmacokinetics, see separate section.
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology
The applicant has demonstrated in the new Study CV181152, comparing saxagliptin 5 mg QD with 2.5 
mg BID that saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID is equivalent to saxagliptin 5 mg QD in terms of PD. Therefore the 
fixed dose combination (FDC) of 2.5 mg saxagliptin and metformin BID was found to be appropriate to
be  used  in  patients  who  are  already  treated  with  the  combination  of  5  mg  saxagliptin  OD  and 
metformin as separate components (switch indication). 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies
No new dose-response studies were submitted
Dose selection for the two components in the FDC was based upon results from several studies.
The  previously  submitted  study  CV181014,  which  was  assessed  in  the  original  Onglyza  MAA, 
specifically investigated different doses (2.5 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg) of saxagliptin when used as add-on 
to  metformin.  The  5  mg  dose  was  concluded  to  provide  the  optimal  benefit-risk  ratio.  This
recommended  daily  dose  is  administered  once  daily, with  or  without  food.  However,  the  commonly 
used daily dose for metformin IR is 500 to 2000 mg administered with food in up to 3 divided doses. 
Therefore, the  efficacy  of  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  administered  twice  daily  (morning  and  evening)  was 
investigated  to  support  the  applied  FDC  product.  Study  CV181038,  also  assessed  in  the  original 
Onglyza MAA, indicated that evening administration of saxagliptin (as monotherapy) is as effective as 
morning  dosing  in  improving  glycaemic  control.  In  the  pivotal  CV181080  study  for  the  current 
application  saxagliptin  was  administered  twice  daily  as  add-on  to  metformin  IR  just  prior  to  the 
morning and evening meals. 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 27/77
Table 8: overview of Phase 3 studies included in this application
Study No.
Study objectives
Saxagliptin + Metformin
Randomised 
and treated
All/Saxa
Duration
Saxagliptin (mg) dose
CV181014
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
743/564
24 weeks
(206 weeks)
2.5, 5, or 10 QD
(+metformin)
Saxagliptin + Metformin Initial Combination
CV181039
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 8%-12%)
1306/978
24 weeks
(76 weeks)
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 6.5%-10%)
Saxagliptin + Metformin versus Glipizide + metformin
CV181054
(D1680C00001)
Saxagliptin + Metformin vs Sitagliptin + Met
CV181056
(D1680C00002)
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID + Metformin vs placebo + metformin
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 6.5%-10%)
838 / 419
710 / 355
52 weeks
(104 weeks)
18 weeks
5 or 10 QD 
(+metformin)
or 10 mg QD
5 mg (+ metformin IR)
5 mg (+ metformin IR)
CV181080
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
160/74
12 weeks
2x2.5 mg (+ metformin 
IR)
Saxagliptin + Metformin XR (PM dosing)
CV181066
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
Saxagliptin Monotherapy (with PM dosing arm)
93/46
4 weeks
5 mg (+ metformin XR)
CV181038
Safety and efficacy
(A1C 7%-10%)
365/291
24 weeks
(52 weeks)
2.5 QAM, 5QAM, 2.5/5 
QAM, 5 QPM, all 
titratable to 10 mg
The efficacy results of all 7 main studies are summarized at the end of the efficacy section.
2.5.2.  Main studies
In support of this FDC application seven studies have been submitted (see table 8). Five of these have 
been submitted during the MAA of Onglyza or thereafter, and have already been assessed. Key aspects 
of these studies are described below. Two studies (CV181080 and CV181066) are new. The metformin 
XR formulation used in study CV181066 is not approved in European countries. Therefore, this study is 
not taken into account in this report. Study CV181080 however is considered a pivotal study of this 
application and is therefore described in detail in the subsequent section.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 28/77
Table 9 shows the baseline characteristics of the study population included in the phase 3 studies.
Study CV181014
This  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  phase  3  trial  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  in  subjects  with  T2DM,  who  had
inadequate glycaemic control on metformin alone.
Subjects  in  this  24-week  4  treatment  arm  trial  received  saxagliptin  2.5  mg,  saxagliptin  5  mg, 
saxagliptin 10 mg, or placebo in addition to open-label metformin (1500 mg to 2550 mg) 
Those  who  met  glycaemic  rescue  criteria  during  the  short-term  period  (24  weeks)  entered  the  long-
term  period, where  they received OL  pioglitazone  (15-45  mg)  in addition  to  blinded  study  medication 
and  OL  metformin. Completers  of  the  short-term  period,  who  did  not  need  rescue,  entered  the  long-
term period and continued on the same treatment as in the short-term period. 
This  study  was  submitted and assessed  in  the original  saxagliptin MAA.  Results  up to 24 weeks were 
assessed.  At week  24,  saxagliptin plus metformin  led  to a placebo-corrected HbA1c  decrease  for  2.5 
mg, 5 mg and 10 mg saxagliptin of -0.73% (95%CI -0.92, -0.53), -0.83% (-1.02, -0.63), and -0.72% 
(-0.91,  -0.52),  respectively.  Results  from  this  study  were  published  last  year  (DeFronzo  et  al., 
Diabetes Care 2009;32:1649-1655).
Data  from  the  long-term  extension  (102  weeks)  were  assessed  in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/07 
for  Onglyza.  At  Week  102,  the  difference  in  the  adjusted  mean  (95%  CI)  change  from  baseline 
compared to placebo in HbA1c was -0.69% (-1.02, -0.35), -0.84% (-1.18, -0.49), and -0.56% (-0.90, 
-0.22)  for  the  saxagliptin  2.5  mg,  5  mg  and  10  mg  treatment  groups,  respectively. Based  on  these 
results,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  treatment  effect  was  sustained  up  to  week  102.  The  MAH  was, 
however,  requested  to  state  in  the  SmPC  that  only  a  very  limited  number  of  patients  completed  the 
long-term extension period. 
Measured HbA1c values during the 102 weeks treatment period are presented in the figure below and 
might indicate a diminution of the treatment effect over time.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 29/77
Figure 1: HbA1c Mean Changes from Baseline During ST + LT Treatment Period 
1 = Saxa 2.5mg+Met, 2 = Saxa 5.0mg+Met, 3 = Saxa 10.0mg+Met, 4 = Placebo+Met
Source: Figure 7.2A of Final ST + LT CSR CV181014. Data set: Randomized Subjects
The  182-week  LT  extension  was  still  ongoing  at  the  writing  of  this  report.  Results  up  to  154  weeks 
were  evaluated  in  EMEA/H/C/001039/FUM  011.    The  CHMP  concluded  that  efficacy  of  saxagliptin  in 
long term is attenuated. Whether this is due to reduction in efficacy or to disease progression can not 
be derived from the submitted data. Conclusions are hampered by the fact that there were only small 
numbers of subjects who continued in the study after 102 weeks. 
Study CV181038
This  study  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  phase  3 trial  to  evaluate 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  saxagliptin  as  monotherapy  with  titration  in  subjects  with  T2DM  who  had
inadequate glycaemic control with diet and exercise.
Subjects were randomised to four treatment groups: two groups received fixed doses of saxagliptin 2.5 
mg or 5 mg QAM; one group received saxagliptin 2.5 mg QAM, with the possibility of an uptitration to 
5 mg; and one group received a fixed dose of saxagliptin 5 mg QPM. 
This study was also submitted and assessed in the original saxagliptin application
The mean reduction from baseline to Week 24 in HbA1c (primary endpoint) was larger and statistically 
significant  in  all  saxagliptin  groups  compared  with  the  placebo  group.  The greatest  decrease  was 
observed  in  the  2.5  mg  QAM  group  (-0.45%).  The  saxagliptin  5  mg  QPM  and QAM  groups  achieved 
similar decreases in HbA1c (-0.35% and -0.40%, respectively). 
The  efficacy results  from  the ST + LT  periods, total of  76  weeks,  are  not  presented  in this  report as 
the results between the two periods cannot be directly compared due to differences in dosing regimens 
implemented in the ST and LT periods.
The  magnitude  of  the  difference  between  saxagliptin  and  placebo  in  the  monotherapy  studies  for 
Onglyza  was  questioned  by  the  CHMP,  however  this  was  of  limited  relevance  since  Onglyza  is  not 
approved as monotherapy.
Study CV181039
This study was a multicenter, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, phase 3 trial to evaluate the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  IR  as  initial  therapy  compared  to 
saxagliptin monotherapy and to metformin IR monotherapy in subjects with T2DM who had inadequate 
glycaemic control. 
This  study was assessed  in  the  original MAA  for Onglyza, and the  long-term results were assessed  in 
variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/07.  Based  on  these  results,  the  CHMP concluded  that  addition  of 
saxagliptin  to  metformin  provided  a  sustained  reduction  in  glycaemic  parameters,  including  HbA1c, 
FPG,  and  PPG,  without  an  increase  in  hypoglycaemia  or  hypoglycaemic  symptoms.  Still,  it  should  be 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 30/77
Rev06.11
noted that the -0.54%, change in HbA1c for saxagliptin 5 mg plus metformin compared with metformin 
plus  placebo,  though  statistically  significant,  had a  rather wide 95% CI  (-0.73,  -0.35). Consequently, 
the clinical relevance of this difference was questioned. 
The results of the  long-term analysis  of  this  study  demonstrated that administration of  saxagliptin  as 
initial combination therapy with metformin or as initial monotherapy for up to 76 weeks, both with and 
without pioglitazone, was well tolerated. 
However this was of limited relevance since Onglyza is not approved for use as an initial combination 
therapy.
Study D1680C00001 
This  was  a  52-week  international,  multi-center,  randomised,  parallel-group, double-blind,  active-
controlled,  phase  III  study  with  a  52-week  extension period  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
saxagliptin in combination with metformin compared with sulfonylurea in combination with
metformin  in  adult  patients  with  T2DM  who  had  inadequate glycaemic  control  on  metformin  therapy 
alone.
This  study  was  assessed  in  variation EMEA/H/C/001039/II/05.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  both 
treatments resulted in a reduction from baseline to week 52 in HbA1c. Treatment with saxagliptin plus 
metformin was non-inferior to treatment with glipizide plus metformin. 
A  delta  of  <0.35%  might  be  too  large  for  baseline  HbA1c  of  7.5%,  however  the  difference  in  mean 
change  from  baseline  between  treatment  groups  was  so  small  [0.06  (-0.05%  to  0.16%)]  that  the 
conclusion  of  non-inferiority  is  acceptable.  In  the  saxagliptin  group  the  reduction  of  FPG  was  slightly 
less  than  in  the  glipizide  group.  More  subjects  in  the  saxagliptin  group  (15.3%)  than  in  the  glipizide 
group (12%) discontinued the study due to lack of efficacy by Week 52.
The proportion of subjects with at least 1 hypoglycaemic event was low (3.0%) in the saxagliptin group, 
much lower than the 36.3% in the glipizide group.
Mean  body  weight  decreased  from  baseline  to  week  52  in  the  saxagliptin  group  and  increased  in  the 
glipizide group, the differences were statistically significant.
Study D1680C0002
This  was  an  18-week,  international,  multi-centre,  randomised,  parallel-group, double-blind,  active-
controlled  phase  3b  study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy and  safety  of  saxagliptin  in  combination  with 
metformin in comparison with sitagliptin in combination with metformin in adult patients with
T2DM who had inadequate glycaemic control on metformin therapy alone.
This  study  was  assessed  in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/06  for  Onglyza.  The  CHMP  concluded  that
HbA1c was reduced after 18 weeks of treatment in both groups: -0.52% for saxagliptin, versus -0.62% 
for  sitagliptin.  The  reduction  with  saxagliptin  was  slightly  lower,  but  according  to  predefined  criteria, 
saxagliptin  was  non-inferior  to  sitagliptin.  The  same  trend  was  seen  in  achievement  of  HbA1c  goals:
26.3% of patients in the saxagliptin group achieved an HbA1c ≤6.5%, while 29.1% of the subjects in 
the sitagliptin group achieved this goal. Considering that slightly more patients in the saxagliptin group 
had a baseline HbA1c < 7%, the achievement seems to be very modest.
Furthermore,  the  sitagliptin  group  produced  a  numerically  greater  decrease  from  baseline  in  HbA1c
compared  with  saxagliptin  added  to  metformin  in  the  subset  of  subjects  with  baseline  HbA1c ≥7% 
(95%  CI:  0.04  to  0.31%). All  together,  saxagliptin  was  non-inferior  to  sitagliptin  in  lowering  HbA1c
levels  in  this  18  week  study.  However,  the  reduction  in  HbA1c  level  and  the  percentage  of  patients 
achieving good glycaemic control (A1C ≤6.5%) was modest in this study. There was a trend of a lower 
efficacy  of  saxagliptin  in  comparison  with  sitagliptin.  Secondary  efficacy  parameters  confirmed  the 
primary endpoint.
Study CV181080
Methods
Study  CV181080  is  a  randomized,  double-blind,  two-arm,  parallel-group,  placebo-controlled,  multi-
centre  trial  comparing  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  with  placebo  BID  administered  concomitantly  with 
metformin  IR  in  subjects  with  T2DM  who  have  inadequate  glycaemic  control  with  metformin  IR 
monotherapy.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 31/77
The duration of the study was 15 weeks, including:
1) Screening (Period A): 1 week.
2)  Placebo Lead-in  (Period  B):  2-week  continuation of  subjects’  pre-study  stable  metformin BID  dose 
(≥ 1500 mg/day) in addition to single-blind placebo BID.
3)  Double-blind  (Period  C):  12-week  administration  of  either  2.5-mg  saxagliptin  BID  or  placebo  BID 
concomitantly with their stable metformin IR BID dose.
Study Participants 
The  study  population  included  male  or  female  subjects  with  T2DM,  aged  between  18  and  78  years 
(inclusive), who had inadequate glycaemic control (defined as HbA1C levels ≥ 7.0% and ≤ 10.0% with 
diet  and  exercise)  with  daily  monotherapy  of  at  least  1500-mg  metformin  given  BID.  Subjects  had  a 
fasting C-peptide value of ≥ 0.8 ng/mL (0.34 nmol/L), and a body mass index (BMI) of ≤ 45.0 kg/m2.  
Excluded were subjects due to a number of criteria including those mainly based on contraindications 
for either saxagliptin or metformin.
Treatments
Screening (Period A)
Subjects had to receive a stable, baseline dose of metformin IR ≥ 1500 mg total daily dose (BID) for 
at least 8 weeks prior to enrolment, with diet and exercise.
Single-blind, Placebo Lead-in Period (Period B)
Eligible  subjects  entered  the  2-week,  single-blind,  diet  and  exercise  placebo  lead-in  period.  Subjects 
continued  to  receive  their  individual  twice  daily  metformin  dose  as  prescribed  by  the  investigator  in 
addition  to  single-blind  placebo  and  were  instructed  to  take  1  tablet  daily  prior  to  the  morning  meal 
and  1  tablet  daily  prior  to  the  evening  meal,  in  addition  to  their  prescribed  metformin  dose,  BID  as 
prescribed.
Double-blind Treatment Period (Period C)
Following  completion  of  the  lead-in  period,  eligible  subjects  entered  the  12-week,  double-blind 
treatment period. In addition to their basic treatment with metformin, subjects were randomized to 1 
of  2  treatment  arms  (saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  or  placebo).  Metformin  was  to  be  taken  twice  daily,  as 
prescribed, in addition to 1 tablet of saxagliptin or matching placebo prior to their morning and evening 
meal. No titration or adjustment of blinded saxagliptin or metformin was allowed during the study.
Objectives
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  superiority  over  placebo  (+  metformin)  as  add-on  of 
saxagliptin with regard to change in HbA1C.
Outcomes/endpoints
Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  was  the  change  in  HbA1c  from  baseline  to  Week  12  (or  the  last  post-
baseline  measurement  prior  to  Week  12,  if  no  Week  12  assessment  was  available).  The  primary 
comparison  was  between  the  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  (plus  stable  background  metformin  IR)  and 
placebo (plus stable background metformin IR) treatment groups.
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints were comparison of saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID and placebo BID including 
change  from  baseline  in  FPG  at  Week  12,    proportion  of  subjects  achieving  a  therapeutic  glycemic 
response  at  Week  12  (defined  as  HbA1c<  7.0%),  and  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  a  therapeutic 
glycemic response at Week 12 (defined as HbA1c ≤ 6.5%).
Safety  Endpoints  were  the  incidences  of  AEs  (including  hypoglycemia  events  and  events  of  special 
interest  such  as  skin  disorders,  infections,  localized  edema,  CV  events,  decreased  lymphocytes,  and 
decreased  platelet  count),  serious  AEs  (SAEs),  and  discontinuations  due  to  AEs,  and  results  of  ECGs, 
vital signs, physical examination, and clinical laboratory tests.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 32/77
Sample size
The sample  size of 72  per  group was  based on a  projected  difference in  mean  HbA1c of  0.6% with a 
standard deviation of 1.1% in individual HbA1c’s and a power of 90% and 2-sided significance level of 
0.05.  To  account  for  5%  unevaluable  subjects  (no  week  12  measurement),  this  sample  size  was 
increased to 76 per group. 
Randomisation
Randomization  was  performed  in  a  1:1  ratio  (saxagliptin:placebo);  304  male  and  female  subjects 
(target population HbA1c levels ≥ 7.0% and ≤ 10%) were screened to allow for randomization of 152 
subjects (76 subjects per treatment group) in a 1:1 ratio. 
Blinding (masking)
Precautions to not unnecessary break the blind were operational.
Statistical methods
The  analysis  methods  and  multiple  testing  strategy  are  acceptable.  Missing  post  baseline  data  (e.g. 
due  rescue  or  discontinuation)  was  imputed  via  LOCF  with  complete  cases  analysis  as  sensitivity 
analysis.
Results
Participant flow
Of the 166 subjects who entered the lead-in period, 6 discontinued the study during the lead-in period. 
The  most  common  reason  for  subject  discontinuation  during  lead-in  was  withdrawal  of  consent  (3 
subjects,  1.8%).  The  remaining  3  subjects  were  not  randomized  because  of  poor/noncompliance,  an 
AE  (abdominal  pain  secondary  to  partial  small  bowel  obstruction  [which  became  an  SAE  when  the 
subject  was  hospitalized]),  and  other:  elevated  liver  enzymes.  Of  the  160  subjects  who  were 
randomized  and  treated  with  double-blind  study  drug,  144  completed  12  weeks  of  treatment;  74 
subjects were randomized to saxagliptin and 86 were randomized to placebo.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 33/77
Fig. 2: participant flow
Recruitment
Germany (21), Hungary (16) and Puerto Rico (18) contributed with 55 subjects, whereas USA 
contributed with the most (105) subjects to the 160 randomised and treated subjects.
Conduct of the study
Referring  to  the  inclusion  criteria,  subjects  should  have  baseline  HbA1c  values  of  ≥7.0  and  ≤10%. 
However, in this study no subjects deviated from the HbA1c inclusion criteria to the extent considered 
relevant. There  were  3  saxagliptin  2.5  mg BID  subjects and  3  placebo  subjects  who  continued  in the 
study  despite  lack  of  glycaemic  control  at  Week  8.  However  the  number  of  subjects  who  had  this 
protocol deviation was balanced between treatment groups.
Overall, according to the study report there were a few relevant protocol deviations; slightly more in 
the saxagliptin group than in the placebo group (2.7% vs. 2.3%). 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 34/77
Baseline data
53.1% were  men and 90.0%  were white. The  mean age  was 55.4 years  (range  24 to 77 years), and 
17.5% of  the  subjects  were  ≥  65 years old.  The  proportion  of hispanics/latinos in the  study  (40.0%) 
was similar to that of the non-hispanic/non-latino population (43.8%). Mean body weight was 93.6 kg 
(SD  =  20.6  kg)  and  mean  BMI  was  33.1  kg/m2  (SD  =  6.1  kg/m2),  with  heavier  subjects  in  the 
saxagliptin  treatment  group  than  in  the  placebo  group.  Median  BMI  was  33.8  kg/m2  for  saxagliptin-
treated  subjects  and  31.1  kg/m2  in  the  placebo-treated  group.  A  total  of  25.7%  of  subjects  in  the 
saxagliptin group and 40.7% of subjects in the placebo group had a BMI of < 30 kg/m2. 
The majority (55.6%) of subjects was diagnosed with T2DM ≥ 5 years before the start of the study. 
The  mean  duration  of  diabetes  was  6.0  years  (median  5.3  years).  There  were  no  treatment  naïve 
subjects, one subject had diabetes diagnosed for 0.1 year.
The mean baseline HbA1c was 7.95% (range, 6.5% to 10.1%) and the mean baseline FPG was 163.1 
mg/d.
Numbers analysed
Of 86 participants in the placebo group, 78 were completing 12 weeks of treatment, of 74 participants 
in the saxagliptin group, 66 completed.
Outcomes and estimation
Table 10: Primary and Secondary Efficacy Endpoints - Summary at Week 12 (LOCF)
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 35/77
HbA1C
In CV 18080 the placebo group had a reduction of HbA1c of 0.22%, questioning whether subjects were 
truly  diet/exercise/metformin  failures  or  not.  However  life  style  modification,  compliance  and  weight 
loss might well have contributed to this reduction of HbA1c in the placebo group. 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  adjusted  mean  change  in  HbA1C  from  baseline  to 
Week 12 in the saxagliptin treatment group compared with placebo (P = 0.0063). 
Figure 3: HbA1c Adjusted Mean Changes from Baseline at Week 12 (LOCF)
The  mean  change  from  baseline  was  –0.56%  (95%  CI  [-0.74,-0.38])  for  the  saxagliptin  treatment 
group  and  -0.22%  (95%  CI  [-0.39,  -0.06])  for  placebo.  The  difference  in  the  adjusted  mean  change 
from baseline versus placebo was -0.34% (95% CI [-0.58, -0.10]). 
Changes from baseline in HbA1C observed values are in agreement with the LOCF data.
A greater proportion of subjects achieved a therapeutic glycaemic response (defined as HbA1C < 7.0% 
or HbA1c ≤ 6.5%) relative to placebo (37.5% versus 24.2%; 24.6% versus 10.7%). The difference in 
the proportions of subjects achieving HbA1C  < 7% versus placebo was 13.2 % (95% CI [1.1, 25.4]), 
and HbA1c ≤ 6.5% 13.8% (95% CI [3.0, 24.7]).
The  Applicant  conducted  analyses  with  several  methods  of  handling  missing  data  to  evaluate  the 
robustness of the primary HbA1c analysis results.
A post hoc repeated measures analysis was performed as an additional sensitivity analysis, and under 
the  missing-at-random  and  ignorability  assumptions.  In  addition, a  Baseline  Observation  Carried 
Forward  (BOCF)  analysis  was  conducted  to  address  the  hypothetical  scenario  where  subjects  who 
discontinued  from  the  study  prior  to  Week  12  actually  derived  no  benefit  from  participation  in  the 
study. The worst-case, multiple imputation analysis was proposed, using a “good” imputed value for a 
missing  value  in  the  placebo  group  and  a  “bad”  imputed  value  for  a  missing  value  in  the  saxagliptin 
group.  Therefore,  the  approach  used  for  the  placebo  group  was  to  randomly  pick  values  from  the 
placebo group observed at Week 12 and to impute values for subjects in this group with missing values. 
The  approach  used  for  the  saxagliptin  group  was  to  impute  a  value  that  was  worse  than  the  mean 
value of the saxagliptin group at Week 12. To see how “bad” these values could be and still result in a 
significant  effect  for  saxagliptin  versus  placebo,  the  analysis  was  performed  in  5  steps,  where  the 
imputed  values  used  for  the  saxagliptin  group  were  worse  for  each  step. This  performed  worse  case 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 36/77
                                        
                                                   
sensitivity  analyses  show  that  imputing  unfavourable  values  of  at  most,  on  average,  9%  for  missing 
data of intervention patients still retains the statistical significance of the difference.
The results of each of these analyses for Study CV181080 are congruent for LOCF, observed case, and 
repeated  measures  analyses.  The  results  of  the  BOCF  analysis  are  also  similar.  For  the  multiple 
imputation  analysis,  results, up  to  imputation  of  HbA1c  9%  values,  were  similar  to  those  obtained 
using the other missing data handling approaches.
Fasting Plasma Glucose (FPG)
From  baseline  to  Week  12  (LOCF)  saxagliptin  was  associated  with  a  numerically  greater  decrease  in 
FPG  compared  with  placebo.  This  was  without  statistical  significance  (P  =  0.1248;  95%  CI  [-21.68, 
2.66]).  The  adjusted  mean  change  from  baseline  at  Week  12  was  -13.73  mg/dL  (95%  CI  (-
22.63, -4.83) in the saxagliptin group, and -4.22 mg/dL (95% CI [-12.52, 4.08]) for the placebo group.
Body Weight
Body weight was assessed post hoc. Baseline mean body weight was 95.59 kg for saxagliptin-treated 
subjects and 91.41 for placebo-treated subjects. At Week 12, mean change in body weight (LOCF) was 
-0.32 kg (95% CI [-0.97, 0.34]) for the saxagliptin group and -0.40 kg (95% CI [-0.83, 0.02]) for the 
placebo group.
Ancillary analyses
N/A
Summary of main studies
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the 7 main studies and the PK/PD study 
supporting the present application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion 
on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections).
Table 11.  Summary of Efficacy for Study CV181014
Title: A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of saxagliptin (BMS-477118) in combination with metformin in subjects with type 2 
diabetes who have inadequate glycemic control on metformin alone
Study code: CV181014
Study identifier
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00121667
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group; 
metformin treatment failure subjects
Duration of main phase:
24 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
2 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
182 weeks
Hypothesis
Superiority after 24 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 2.5 mg + Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Saxa 10 mg + Met
Plac + Met
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary 
endpoint
HbA1c
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 
≤2500 mg), 24 weeks, 192 randomizeda
Saxagliptin 5 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 
≤2500 mg), 24 weeks, 191 randomizeda
Saxagliptin 10 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 
≤2500 mg), 24 weeks, 181 randomizeda
Placebo on a background therapy of open-label 
metformin (at pre-study dose, ≤2500 mg), 24 
weeks, 179 randomizeda
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Page 37/77
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
FPG
HbA1c 
<7.0%
PPG AUC
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Therapeutic glycemic response, defined as the 
proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% 
at Week 24
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24 in AUC from 0 to 180 minutes for the PPG 
response to an OGTT
Database lock
22 November 2006 (ST CSR)
07 April 2010 (ST + LT CSR)
Results and Analysis
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Primary Analysis (24-week ST phase)
Saxa 2.5 mg 
+ Met
192
Saxa 5 mg + 
Met
191
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
Saxa 10 mg  
+ Met
181
Plac + Met
-0.59
-0.69
-0.58
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.13
0.07
179
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
-14.31
-22.03
-20.50
1.24
2.48
37.1
2.49
43.5
2.53
44.4
2.56
16.6
-8891
-9586
-8137
-3291
797.97
810.46
807.88
853.24
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint: 
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac
95% CI
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-0.73, -0.83, -0.72
(-0.92, -0.53), (-1.02, -0.63), 
(-0.91, -0.52)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*, 
<0.0001*
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
15.55, -23.28, -21.74
(-22.55, -8.55), (-30.29, -
16.27), (-28.81, -14.68)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*, 
<0.0001*
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
20.5, 27.0, 27.9
(10.6, 30.5), (17.0, 36.7), 
(17.7, 37.7)
Page 38/77
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Secondary endpoint:
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*, 
<0.0001*
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-5599, -6294, -4845
(-7894, -3305), (-8606, -
3983), (-7153, -2537)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*, 
<0.0001*
Secondary analysis (206-week ST + LT phase)b
Plac + Met
Saxa 10 mg  
+ Met
181
Saxa 2.5 mg 
+ Met
192
Saxa 5 mg + 
Met
191
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)c
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
0.119
0.129
0.202
0.117
-0.36
-0.42
-0.16
71.4
61.3
66.9
0.09
74.3
179
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)c
-5.2
-4.4
-3.3
-0.1
5.14
18.8
4.74
24.1
4.63
28.3
7.97
13.1
-4517
-8547
-5398
-4180
1718.2
1487.2
1508.2
2479.8
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-2.9, -13.0, -7.5
95% CI
P-value
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
(-12.0, 6.2), (-22.4, -3.5), (-
16.8, 2.0)
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-0.45, -0.51, -0.25
(-0.92, 0.02), (-0.97, -0.05), 
(-0.70, 0.21)
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-5.2, -4.3, -3.3
(-23.8, 13.4), (-22.5, 13.9), 
(-21.3, 14.8)
Page 39/77
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
P-value
NC
HbA1c <7.0% (%)
Comparison groups
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
Difference from Plac
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
5.7, 10.9, 15.2
(-2.0, 13.3), (2.9, 18.9), 
(6.8, 23.6)
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 
(+Met) vs Plac (+Met)
-337, -4367, -1218
(-6261, 5586), (-10047, 
1313), (-6912, 4476)
NC
Notes
Source: CV181014 ST CSR; CV181014 ST + LT CSR
The evaluation period for the LT efficacy analyses included the ST + LT period; 
therefore, subjects who had an efficacy evaluation during the ST period 
contributed data for the analyses of both the ST and ST + LT periods of the 
study.
The statistical analysis plan specified that the ANCOVA LOCF analysis was the 
primary presentation of the efficacy endpoints (eg, HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC) 
and a repeated measures analysis was performed as a sensitivity analysis. This 
was the approach taken in the ST CSR. However, in light of the large and 
increasing amount of missing data over time in the LT extension period, the 
repeated measures analysis represented a more comprehensive approach to 
address the challenge of handling the missing data than the LOCF analysis. 
Hence, the repeated measures analysis was presented as the primary analysis 
of LT efficacy data in the ST + LT CSR (for HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC; LOCF was 
used for HbA1c <7.0%).
a Subjects randomized and treated
b The final assessment of efficacy endpoints during the ST + LT phase occurred 
at Week 154.
c Subjects discontinued or rescued through Week 193
* Statistically significant at prespecified level. For primary endpoint, between-
group comparisons significant at α = 0.019, applying Dunnett’s adjustment. All 
secondary endpoints were tested (sequentially) at the 0.05 significance level 
and only for groups where the primary endpoint showed statistical significance.
AUC Area under the curve; CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; 
HbA1c Glycosylated hemoglobin; LT Long-term; Met Metformin; NC Not 
calculated; OGTT Oral glucose tolerance test; Plac Placebo; PPG Postprandial 
glucose; ST Short-term; Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 40/77
Table 12.  Summary of Efficacy for Study CV181038
Title: A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of saxagliptin (BMS-477118) as monotherapy with titration in subjects with type 2 
diabetes who have inadequate glycemic control with diet and exercise
Study identifier
Study code: CV181038
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00316082
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group; 
treatment-naive subjects
Duration of main phase:
24 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
2 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
52 weeks
Hypothesis
Superiority after 24 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 2.5 mg (QAM)
Endpoints and 
definitions
Saxa 5 mg (QAM)
Saxa 2.5/5 mg (QAM)
Saxa 5 mg (QPM)
Plac
Primary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
HbA1c
FPG
HbA1c 
<7.0%
PPG AUC
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg, QAM, 24 weeks, 74 
randomized
Saxagliptin 5 mg, QAM, 24 weeks, 74 
randomized
Saxagliptin titration from 2.5 to 5 mg, QAM, 24 
weeks, 71 randomized
Saxagliptin 5 mg, QPM, 24 weeks, 72 
randomized
Placebo, QAM, 24 weeks, 74 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Therapeutic glycemic response, defined as the 
proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% 
at Week 24
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24 in AUC from 0 to 180 minutes for the PPG 
response to an OGTT
Database lock
17 January 2008 (ST CSR)
12 February 2009 (ST + LT CSR)
Results and Analysis
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Primary Analysis (24-week ST phase)
Saxa 2.5 
mg (QAM)
74
Saxa 5 mg 
(QAM)
74
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
Saxa 2.5/5 
mg (QAM)
71
Saxa 5 mg 
(QPM)a
72
(0.10)
(0.10)
(0.10)
(0.10)
(0.10)
-0.71
-0.26
-0.63
-0.66
-0.61
Plac
74
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
-11.4
-10.7
-12.5
-7.9
3.3
4.50
35.8
4.46
44.9
4.48
43.5
4.46
38.6
4.46
35.3
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 41/77
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)a
Comparison groups
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
-8014
-8218
-7781
-6048
-3088
1246.9
1249.1
1261.0
1318.2
1259.7
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint: 
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint:
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Secondary analysis (76-week ST + LT phase)
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
-0.45, -0.40, -0.37, -0.35
(0.74, -0.16), (-0.69, -0.12), 
(-0.65, -0.08), (-0.63, -0.07)
0.0023*, 0.0059*, 0.0119*, 
0.0157*
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
-14.7, -14.0, -15.8, -11.2
(-27.2, -2.3),] (-26.4, -1.6), 
(-28.3, -3.4), (-23.6, 1.2)
0.0204*, 0.0271*, 0.0130*, 
0.0759
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
0.5, 9.6, 8.2, 3.3
(-15.9, 16.7), (-7.1, 25.8), (-
8.5, 24.3), (-12.9%, 19.5)
1.0000, 0.2968, 0.3832, 
0.7267
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
-4927, -5130, -4694, -2961
(-8416, -1437), (-8630, -
1630), (-8210, -1178), (-
6550, 629)
0.0059c, 0.0043 c, 0.0091 c, 
0.1055
Plac
Saxa 5 
mg (QPM)
72
Saxa 5 
mg (QAM)
74
Saxa 2.5 
mg (QAM)
74
Saxa 2.5/5 
mg (QAM)
71
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
0.122
0.108
0.117
0.114
0.118
-0.41
-0.84
-0.34
-0.60
-0.29
33.8
36.1
33.8
32.4
37.8
74
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
-11.9
-1.4
-14.5
1.0
0.1
5.03
4.43
4.89
4.77
4.61
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 42/77
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
Effect estimate per 
comparisonb
40.3
31.9
43.5
31.4
33.8
-5859
-4163
-8511
-4700
-3788
1498.3
1429.2
1571.7
1547.4
1465.6
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
NC
95% CI
P-value
NC
NC
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
HbA1c <7.0% (%)
Comparison groups
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
Difference from Plac
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
NC
NC
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
NC
NC
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
NC
NC
NC
Saxa 2.5, 5, 2.5/5 mg QAM, 
and 5 mg QPM vs Plac
NC
NC
NC
Notes
Source: CV181038 ST CSR; CV181038 ST + LT CSR
The evaluation period for the LT efficacy analyses included the ST + LT period; 
therefore, subjects who had an efficacy evaluation during the ST period 
contributed data for the analyses of both the ST and ST + LT periods of the 
study.
The statistical analysis plan specified that the ANCOVA LOCF analysis was the 
primary presentation of the efficacy endpoints (eg, HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC)
and a repeated measures analysis was performed as a sensitivity analysis. This 
was the approach taken in the ST CSR. However, in light of the large and 
increasing amount of missing data over time in the LT extension period, the 
repeated measures analysis represented a more comprehensive approach to 
address the challenge of handling the missing data than the LOCF analysis. 
Hence, the repeated measures analysis was presented as the primary analysis of 
LT efficacy data in the ST + LT CSR (for HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC; LOCF was 
used for HbA1c <7.0%).
Note: The efficacy results between the ST and LT periods of CV181038 cannot 
be compared directly because during the LT period, the saxagliptin dose could 
be titrated upward to a maximum of 10 mg; thus, approximately 70% of the 
subjects did not remain on the same dose of saxagliptin throughout the ST + LT 
periods. Additionally, all subjects who received placebo during the ST period 
Page 43/77
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
received metformin during the LT period; thus, any comparisons for the 
saxagliptin doses during the LT period would be versus active controls 
(metformin) rather than placebo controls.
a All Saxa 5 mg QPM group results were a secondary efficacy endpoint.
b Since subjects in the placebo group were switched to metformin at Week 24, 
no formal comparisons between treatment groups were planned for the LT 
treatment period.
c The differences in mean reductions were nominally statistically significant for 
all saxagliptin QAM treatment groups; however, the placement of this endpoint 
in the sequential testing procedure prohibited interpretation of statistical 
significance.
* Statistically significant at prespecified level. For the primary endpoint, 
comparisons were performed in a 2-step sequential testing procedure. For Saxa 
2.5 mg QAM and 5 mg QAM, comparisons vs placebo were significant at α = 
0.027, applying Dunnett’s adjustment. For Saxa 2.5/5 mg QAM, significance test 
was performed at the 0.027 level if 2.5 mg QAM or 5 mg QAM showed statistical 
significance and at 0.05 if both 2.5 mg QAM and 5 mg QAM groups showed 
statistical significance. All secondary endpoints were tested (sequentially) at the 
0.05 significance level and only for groups where the primary endpoint showed 
statistical significance.
AUC Area under the curve; CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; 
HbA1c Glycosylated hemoglobin; LT Long-term; NC Not calculated; OGTT Oral 
glucose tolerance test; Plac Placebo; PPG Postprandial glucose; ST Short-term; 
Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 44/77
Table 13.  Summary of Efficacy for Study CV181039
Title: A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, phase 3 trial to evaluate the efficacy 
and safety of saxagliptin in combination with metformin IR as initial therapy compared to saxagliptin 
monotherapy and to metformin IR monotherapy in subjects with type 2 diabetes who have inadequate 
glycemic control
Study identifier
Study code: CV181039
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00327015
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group; 
treatment-naive subjects
Duration of main phase:
24 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
1 week
Duration of Extension phase:
52 weeks
Hypothesis
Superiority after 24 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Saxa 10 mg + Met
Endpoints and 
definitions
Saxa 10 mg
Met
Primary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
HbA1c
FPG
HbA1c 
<7.0%
PPG AUC
HbA1c 
≤6.5%
Rescue/ 
discontinu-
ation
Database lock
25 February 2008 (ST CSR)
02 April 2009 (ST + LT CSR)
Results and Analysis
Saxagliptin 5 mg on a background therapy of 
metformin 500-2000 mg (titratable), 24 weeks, 
320 randomized
Saxagliptin 10 mg on a background therapy of 
metformin 500-2000 mg (titratable), 24 weeks, 
323 randomized
Saxagliptin 10 mg plus placebo, 24 weeks, 335 
randomized
Metformin 500-2000 mg (titratable) plus 
placebo, 24 weeks, 328 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24
Therapeutic glycemic response, defined as the 
proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% 
at Week 24
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
24 in AUC from 0 to 180 minutes for the PPG 
response to an OGTT
Proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c ≤6.5% 
at Week 24
Proportion of subjects requiring rescue for 
failing to achieve pre-specified glycemic targets 
or discontinuing for insufficient efficacy at Week 
24
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Primary Analysis (24-week ST phase)
Saxa 10 mg
Saxa 10 mg 
+ Met
323
Saxa 5 mg + 
Met
320
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
0.070
0.069
0.069
0.069
-2.53
-2.49
-1.69
-1.99
335
328
Met
Page 45/77
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
836.5
45.3
7.5
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
(percent)
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)
-59.8
-62.2
-30.9
-47.3
2.34
60.3
2.34
59.7
2.30
32.2
2.33
41.1
-21080
-21336
-16054
-15005
869.6
40.6
5.9
826.7
20.3
21.2
857.0
29.0
10.1
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-0.84, -0.80
(-1.03, -0.65), (-0.99, -0.61)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-0.54, -0.50
(-0.73, -0.35), (-0.70, -0.31)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Secondary endpoint: 
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-28.9, -31.3
(-35.3, -22.4), (-37.7, -24.9)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-12.5, -14.9
(-19.0, -6.0), (-21.4, -8.5)
P-value
0.0002*, <0.0001*
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
28.1, 27.5
(20.4, 35.4), (19.8, 34.8)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint:
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
19.2, 18.6
(11.3, 26.8), (10.8, 26.2)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-5027, -5282
Page 46/77
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
(-7338, -2715), (-7639, -
2925)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-6075, -6330
(-8429, -3721), (-8728, -
3932)
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
25.0, 20.3
(17.7, 32.0), (13.2, 27.3)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
16.3, 11.7
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c ≤6.5%
(percent)
95% CI
P-value
Secondary endpoint:
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
(8.7, 23.8), (4.2, 19.1)
<0.0001*, 0.0026*
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-13.7, -15.3
(-19.1, -8.5), (-20.5, -10.3)
P-value
<0.0001*, <0.0001*
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-2.6, -4.2
95% CI
P-value
(-7.1, 1.9), (-8.5, -0.0)
0.2693, 0.0597
Secondary analysis (76-week ST + LT phase)
Met
Saxa 10 mg
Saxa 10 mg 
+ Met
323
Saxa 5 mg + 
Met
320
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least one dose of double-blind study medication during the short-term (24 
week) double-blind period
Treatment 
group
Number of 
subjects 
(randomized 
subjects 
dataset)
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
HbA1c (%) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
0.067
0.066
0.077
0.071
-2.31
-2.33
-1.55
-1.79
26.0
23.1
47.2
34.1
328
335
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
-53.9
-55.3
-23.8
-40.3
2.60
2.61
3.03
2.79
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 47/77
Effect estimate per 
comparison
HbA1c <7.0% 
(percent)
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL) 
(adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
(percent)
Rescue/ 
discontinuation 
(percent)
51.1
50.8
25.0
34.7
-21174
-20308
-13913
-13601
781.4
38.4
821.5
38.1
907.4
16.3
833.4
20.1
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-24.0, -21.2
(-31.0, -16.8), (-28.3, -13.9)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
95% CI
P-value
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-11.0, -8.1
(-17.9, -4.0), (-15.2, -1.1)
NC
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-0.76, -0.78
(-0.96, -0.56), (-0.98, -0.58)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-0.52, -0.54
(-0.71, -0.33), (-0.73, -0.35)
P-value
NC
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-30.2, -31.5
(-38.0, -22.3), (-39.4, -23.7)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-13.6, -14.9
(-21.0, -6.1), (-22.4, -7.5)
P-value
NC
HbA1c <7.0% (%)
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
26.1, 25.8
(18.6, 33.4), (18.4, 33.0)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
16.4, 16.1
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 48/77
PPG AUC 
(mg•min/dL)
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Saxa 10 mg
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Met
95% CI
P-value
HbA1c ≤6.5% (%)
Comparison groups
Difference from Saxa 10 
mg
95% CI
(8.6, 24.1), (8.3, 23.7)
NC
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
-7261, -6395
(-9615, -4907), (-8801, -
3988)
NC
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
-7573, -6707
(-9820, -5327), (-9007, -
4407)
NC
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Saxa 10 mg
22.2, 21.8
(15.3, 28.9), (15.1, 28.5)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Difference from Met
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 5 mg + Met and Saxa 
10 mg + Met vs Met
18.4, 18.0
(11.3, 25.4), (11.0, 25.0)
NC
Notes
Source: CV181039 ST CSR; CV181039 ST + LT CSR
The evaluation period for the LT efficacy analyses included the ST + LT period; 
therefore, subjects who had an efficacy evaluation during the ST period 
contributed data for the analyses of both the ST and ST + LT periods of the 
study.
The statistical analysis plan specified that the ANCOVA LOCF analysis was the 
primary presentation of the efficacy endpoints (eg, HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC) 
and a repeated measures analysis was performed as a sensitivity analysis. This 
was the approach taken in the ST CSR. However, in light of the large and 
increasing amount of missing data over time in the LT extension period, the 
repeated measures analysis represented a more comprehensive approach to 
address the challenge of handling the missing data than the LOCF analysis. 
Hence, the repeated measures analysis was presented as the primary analysis 
of LT efficacy data in the ST + LT CSR (for HbA1c, FPG, and PPG AUC; LOCF was 
used for HbA1c <7.0% and HbA1c ≤6.5%).
* Statistically significant at prespecified level. For primary endpoint, between-
group comparisons significant at α = 0.027, applying Dunnett’s adjustment. All 
secondary endpoints were tested (sequentially) at the 0.05 significance level 
and only if comparison of the combination treatment group vs each 
monotherapy active-control group was significant.
AUC Area under the curve; CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; 
HbA1c Glycosylated hemoglobin; LT Long-term; Met Metformin; NC Not 
calculated; OGTT Oral glucose tolerance test; PPG Postprandial glucose; ST 
Short-term; Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 49/77
Table 14.  Summary of Efficacy for Study D1680C00001
Title: A 52-week international, multi-center, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, active-
controlled, phase III study with a 52-week extension period to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
saxagliptin in combination with metformin compared with sulphonylurea in combination with 
metformin in adult patients with type 2 diabetes who have inadequate glycemic control on metformin 
therapy alone
Study identifier
Study code: D1680C00001
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00575588
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group; 
metformin treatment failure subjects
Duration of main phase:
52 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
2 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
52 weeks
Hypothesis
Non-inferiority after 52 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Glip 5 mg + Met
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
HbA1c
≥1 Hypo-
glycemic 
event
Body 
weight
HbA1c 
Durability
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
25 September 2009 (ST CSR)
24 September 2010 (ST + LT CSR)
Database lock
Saxagliptin 5 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 1500-
3000 mg), 52 weeks, 428 randomized
Glipizide 5 mg (titratable to 20 mg [mean final 
glipizide dose was 15 mg and 50.5% of 
subjects were receiving 20 mg]) on a 
background therapy of open-label metformin 
(at pre-study dose, 1500-3000 mg), 52 weeks, 
430 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
52
Proportion of subjects reporting at least 1 
hypoglycemic event at Week 52 (a safety 
outcome variable)
Adjusted mean change from baseline in body 
weight at Week 52 (a safety outcome variable)
Durability from Week 24 to Week 52 of the 
HbA1c effect observed at Week 24 (efficacy)
Results and Analysis
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Primary Analysis (52-week ST phase)
Per-protocol dataset, a subset of the Full analysis set (subjects who took at least 
1 randomized dose of double-blind study medication, and had at least 1 non-
missing baseline and 1 post-baseline efficacy data assessment) consisting of all 
subjects who completed the 52-week, randomized treatment period, had both a 
baseline and Week 52 HbA1c measurement, and had no significant protocol 
deviations
Treatment group
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Glip 5 mg + Met
Number of subjects (per-
protocol dataset)a
HbA1c (%) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
≥1 Hypo-glycemic event 
(percent)
Body weight (kg)
(adjusted mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c Durability (mean 
slope of regression)
293
-0.74
0.038
3.0
-1.1
0.17
0.001
293
-0.80
0.038
36.3
1.1
0.17
0.004
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 50/77
Standard error
0.001
0.001
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
0.06
(-0.05, 0.16)+
Secondary endpoint: 
≥1 Hypoglycemic 
event (percent)
Secondary endpoint:
Body weight (kg)
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c Durability
(mean slope of 
regression)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Difference from Glip 5 
mg + Met
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-33.2
(-38.1, -28.5)
<0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-2.2
(-2.7, -1.7)
<0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-0.002
(-0.0046, -0.0001)
Secondary analysis (104-week ST + LT phase)
P-value
0.040*
Full analysis set consisting of all subjects who took at least 1 randomized dose 
of double-blind study medication, and had at least 1 non-missing baseline and 1 
post-baseline efficacy data assessment
Treatment group
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Glip 5 mg + Met
Number of subjects (full 
analysis dataset)a
HbA1c (%) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
≥1 Hypo-glycemic event 
(percent)
Body weight (kg)
(adjusted mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c Durability (mean 
slope of regression)
Standard error
426
-0.41
0.041
3.5
-1.47
0.200
0.0041
0.0005
426
-0.35
0.043
38.4
1.29
0.205
0.0076
0.0005
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Effect estimate per 
comparison
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-0.05
(-0.17, 0.06)
P-value
NC
≥1 Hypoglycemic 
event (percent)
Comparison groups
Difference from Glip 5 
mg + Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-34.9
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 51/77
95% CI
P-value
(-39.8, -30.0)
NC
Body weight (kg)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-2.76
(-3.32, -2.20)
HbA1c Durability
(mean slope of 
regression)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Glip 5 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Glip 5 
mg + Met
-0.0035
(-0.0048, -0.0022)
P-value
NC
Notes
Source: D1680C00001 ST CSR; D1680C00001 ST + LT CSR
The evaluation period for the LT efficacy analyses included the ST + LT period; 
therefore, subjects who had an efficacy evaluation during the ST period 
contributed data for the analyses of both the ST and ST + LT periods of the 
study.
The statistical analysis plan for the ST CSR specified that the ANCOVA LOCF 
analysis was the primary presentation of the endpoints and a repeated 
measures analysis was performed as a sensitivity analysis. The statistical 
analysis plan for the ST + LT CSR specified that a repeated measures analysis 
be used for the primary presentation of the results from the ST + LT period 
because, compared with the LOCF analysis, it represented a more 
comprehensive approach to address the challenge of handling the large and 
increasing amount of missing data over time in the LT extension period (partially 
due to the increasingly stringent protocol-mandated discontinuation criteria 
relating to glycemic control).
+ Achieved the prespecified level for non-inferiority. Saxa + Met was considered 
non-inferior to Glip + Met if the upper confidence limit of the estimate of the 
between-group difference was <0.35%.
* Between group comparison significant after controlling overall alpha of the 
study.
a The safety analysis dataset (Saxa + Met: 428 subjects; Glip + Met: 430 
subjects) was used for the analysis of ≥1 hypoglycemic event and body weight.
CI Confidence interval; Glip Glipizide; HbA1c Glycosylated hemoglobin; LT Long-
term; Met Metformin; NC Not calculated; Plac Placebo; ST Short-term; Saxa 
Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 52/77
Table 15.  Summary of Efficacy for Study D1680C00002
Title: An 18-week, international, multi-centre, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, active-
controlled phase IIIb study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of saxagliptin in combination with 
metformin in comparison with sitagliptin in combination with metformin in adult patients with type 2 
diabetes who have inadequate glycaemic control on metformin therapy alone
Study identifier
Study code: D1680C00002
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00666458
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-group; 
metformin treatment failure subjects
Duration of main phase:
18 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
2 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
NA
Hypothesis
Non-inferiority after 18 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Endpoints and 
definitionsa
Sita 100 mg + Met
Primary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
HbA1c
FPG
HbA1c 
≤6.5%
Database lock
07 April 2009
Results and Analysis
Saxagliptin 5 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 1500-
3000 mg), 18 weeks, 403 randomized
Sitagliptin 100 mg on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin (at pre-study dose, 1500-
3000 mg), 18 weeks, 398 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
18
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
18
Therapeutic glycemic response, defined as the 
proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c ≤6.5% 
at Week 18
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Primary Analysis
Per-protocol dataset, a subset of the Full analysis set (subjects who took at least 
1 randomized dose of double-blind study medication, and had at least 1 non-
missing baseline and 1 post-baseline efficacy data assessment) consisting of all 
subjects who completed the 18-week, randomized treatment period, and had no 
significant protocol deviations
Treatment group
Sita 100 mg + Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Number of subjects (per-
protocol dataset)
HbA1c (%) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
334
-0.52
0.039
343
-0.62
0.038
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Sita 100 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Sita 100 
mg + Met
0.09
(-0.01, 0.20)+
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Secondary analysis
P-value
NC
Full analysis set consisting of all subjects who took at least 1 randomized dose 
of double-blind study medication, and had at least 1 non-missing baseline and 1 
post-baseline efficacy data assessment
Treatment group
Sita 100 mg + Met
Saxa 5 mg + Met
Number of subjects (full 
analysis dataset)
400
395
Page 53/77
FPG (mg/dL) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
-10.75
1.455
HbA1c ≤6.5% (percent)
26.3
-16.16
1.464
29.1
Effect estimate per 
comparisona
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Sita 100 mg + Met
95% CI
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Sita 100 
mg + Met
5.42
(1.37, 9.47)
Notes
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
(percent)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Difference from Sita 
100 mg + Met
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 5 mg + Met vs Sita 100 
mg + Met
-2.8
(-9.0, 3.5)
NC
Source: D1680C00002 CSR
+ Achieved the prespecified level for non-inferiority. Saxa + Met was considered 
non-inferior to Sita + Met if the upper confidence limit of the estimate of the 
between-group difference was <0.3%.
a No a priori hypotheses were established for secondary endpoints. FPG and 
HbA1c ≤6.5% were included in a series of exploratory secondary endpoints and 
the results were presented without pre-specified statistical comparisons.
CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c Glycosylated 
hemoglobin; Met Metformin; NA Not applicable; NC Not calculated; Sita 
Sitagliptin; Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 54/77
Table 16.  Summary of Efficacy for Study CV181066
Title: A 4-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of saxagliptin in comparison to placebo as add-on treatment to metformin XR 
in subjects with type 2 diabetes who have inadequate glycemic control with diet and exercise and a 
stable dose of metformin XR ≥1500 mg/day
Study code: CV181066
Study identifier
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00683657
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group; 
metformin treatment failure subjects
Duration of main phase:
4 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
4 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
NA
Hypothesis
Superiority after 4 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR
Plac + Met XR
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary 
endpoint
24-hour 
MWG
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Saxagliptin 5 mg (administered with the 
evening meal) on a background therapy of 
open-label metformin XR (at pre-study dose, 
1500-2000 mg), 4 weeks, 46 randomized
Placebo on a background therapy of open-label 
metformin XR (at pre-study dose, 1500-2000
mg), 4 weeks, 47 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 4 
in 24-hour MWG (defined as 24-hour plasma 
glucose AUC ÷ 24 hours)
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 4 
in 4-hour mean weighted PPG (4 hours after 
the evening meal calculated as 4 hour PPG AUC 
÷ 4 hours)
4-hour 
mean 
weighted 
PPG
2-hour PPG Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 4 
Mean daily 
glucose
in 2-hour PPG (2 hours after the evening meal)
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
4. Based on 7 daily fingerstick glucose 
measurements (pre-meal, 2-hour post-meal, 
and at bedtime) collected by subjects at home 
in a 3-day period, prior to collection of the 24-
hour blood samples
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 4 
in 2-day average FPG.
Database lock
Secondary 
endpoint
15 April 2009
2-day FPG
Results and Analysis
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Primary Analysis
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least 1 dose of double-blind study medication during the 4-week double-blind 
period
Treatment group
Plac + Met XR
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met 
XR
Number of subjects 
(randomized subjects 
dataset)
24-hour MWG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted mean change)
Standard error
4-hour mean weighted 
PPG (mg/dL) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
46
-13.8
2.99
-30.7
5.14
47
3.0
2.89
-0.4
4.90
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 55/77
2-hour PPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted mean change)
Standard error
Mean daily glucose 
(mg/dL) (adjusted mean 
change)
Standard error
2-day FPG (mg/dL) 
(adjusted mean change)
Standard error
-38.2
7.49
-11.7
3.02
-10.8
2.84
-2.8
7.23
7.0
2.94
4.5
2.81
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Primary endpoint: 
24-hour MWG 
(mg/dL)
Secondary endpoint: 
4-hour mean 
weighted PPG 
(mg/dL)
Secondary endpoint: 
2-hour PPG (mg/dL)
Secondary endpoint:
Mean daily glucose 
(mg/dL)
Secondary endpoint:
2-day FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met XR
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met XR
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met XR
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met XR
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met XR
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR vs 
Plac + Met XR
-16.8
(-25.1, -8.5)
0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR vs 
Plac + Met XR
-30.2
(-44.4, -16.1)
<0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR vs 
Plac + Met XR
-35.4
(-56.2, -14.7)
0.0010*
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR vs 
Plac + Met XR
-18.7
(-27.1, -10.3)
<0.0001*
Saxa 5 mg QPM + Met XR vs 
Plac + Met XR
-15.3
(-23.3, -7.4)
0.0002*
Analysis 
description
NA
Secondary analysis
NA
Notes
Source: CV181066 CSR
* Between group comparison significant after controlling overall alpha of the 
study (∞ = 0.05).
CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c Glycosylated 
hemoglobin; Met Metformin; MWG Mean weighted glucose; NA Not applicable; 
Plac Placebo; PPG Postprandial glucose; Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 56/77
Table 17.  Summary of Efficacy for Study CV181080
Title: A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, phase 3 trial to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of 2.5-mg saxagliptin, PO, BID, in combination with metformin in 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycemic control on metformin alone
Study identifier
Study code: CV181080
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00885378
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group; 
metformin treatment failure subjects
Duration of main phase:
12 weeks
Design
Duration of Run-in phase:
2 weeks
Duration of Extension phase:
NA
Hypothesis
Superiority after 12 weeks
Treatment groups
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met
Endpoints and 
definitions
Plac + Met
Primary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Database lock
Secondary 
endpoint
22 March 2010
Results and Analysis
HbA1c
FPG
HbA1c 
<7.0%
HbA1c 
≤6.5%
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg administered twice daily on 
a background therapy of open-label metformin 
(at pre-study dose, 1500-3000 mg), 12 weeks, 
74 randomized
Placebo on a background therapy of open-label 
metformin (at pre-study dose, 1500-3000 mg), 
12 weeks, 86 randomized
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
12
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 
12
Therapeutic glycemic response, defined as the 
proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7.0% 
at Week 12
Proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c ≤6.5% 
at Week 12
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Effect estimate per 
comparison
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Primary Analysis
Randomized subjects dataset, consisting of all randomized subjects who took at 
least 1 dose of double-blind study medication during the 12-week double-blind 
period
Treatment group
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met
Plac + Met
Number of subjects 
(randomized subjects 
dataset)
HbA1c (%) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
FPG (mg/dL) (adjusted 
mean change)
Standard error
HbA1c <7.0% (adjusted 
percent)
HbA1c ≤6.5% (adjusted 
percent)
Primary endpoint: 
HbA1c (%)
74
-0.56
0.089
-13.73
4.506
37.5
24.6
86
-0.22
0.084
-4.22
4.200
24.2
10.7
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met vs 
Plac + Met
-0.34
(-0.58, -0.10)
0.0063*
Page 57/77
Secondary endpoint: 
FPG (mg/dL)
Comparison groups
Mean difference from 
Plac + Met
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met vs 
Plac + Met
-9.51
(-21.68, 2.66)
Secondary endpoint: 
HbA1c <7.0% 
(adjusted percent)
Secondary endpoint:
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
(adjusted percent)
P-value
0.1248
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac + 
Met
95% CI
P-value
Comparison groups
Difference from Plac + 
Met
95% CI
P-value
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met vs 
Plac + Met
13.2
(1.1, 25.4)
NC
Saxa 2.5 mg BID + Met vs 
Plac + Met
13.8
(3.0, 24.7)
NC
Analysis 
description
NA
Secondary analysis
NA
Notes
Source: CV181080 CSR
* Between group comparison significant after controlling overall alpha of the 
study (α = 0.05).
CI Confidence interval; FPG Fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c Glycosylated 
hemoglobin; Met Metformin; NA Not applicable; NC Not calculated; Plac Placebo; 
Saxa Saxagliptin
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 58/77
Table 18.  Summary of Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics for Study CV181152
Title: A pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics study of saxagliptin following multiple dose 
administration of 2.5 mg twice-daily as compared to 5 mg once-daily when administered with 
standard meals to healthy subjects
Study identifier
Study code: CV181152
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NA
Open-label, randomized, 2-period, 2 multiple-dose treatment, cross-over study; 
healthy subjects
Duration of main phase:
41 days (including Screening)
Duration of Run-in phase:
Duration of Extension phase:
NA
NA
Equivalence of total daily exposure of saxagliptin after multiple dosing of 5 mg 
once-daily and 2.5 mg twice-daily in healthy subjects
Saxa 5 mg QD
Design
Hypothesis
Treatment groups
Saxa 2.5 mg BID
Endpoints and 
definitions
Primary 
endpoint
AUC0-24h
Secondary 
endpoint
Cmax
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
Secondary 
endpoint
20 April 2011
Database lock
Saxagliptin 5 mg administered once daily with a 
standard meal, 7 days, 16 subjects 
randomizeda
Saxagliptin 2.5 mg administered twice daily 
with a standard meal, 7 days, 16 subjects 
randomizeda
Total daily saxagliptin and BMS-510849 
exposure, or AUC over the 24-hour period 
following the AM doseb
Maximum observed saxagliptin and BMS-
510849 plasma concentration within a dosing 
interval
Time to saxagliptin and BMS-510849 Cmax 
within a dosing interval
Saxagliptin and BMS-510849 AUC over 1 dosing 
interval (TAU=24 for once daily, and TAU=12 
for twice daily)
Trough (predose) saxagliptin and BMS-510849 
plasma concentration
Maximum plasma DPP4 percent inhibition
Tmax
AUCtau
Cmin
Imax (DPP-4)
Tmax (DPP-4)
Time to Imax
Trough 
(DPP-4)
AUECtau
(DPP-4)
AUEC0-24h
(DPP-4)
Cmax (iGLP-1)
Tmax (iGLP-1)
DPP-4 percent inhibition of last collected plasma 
sample postdose within a dosing interval
Area under the DPP-4 percent inhibition 
(effect)-time curve over 1 dosing interval
Total daily DPP-4 percent inhibition, or area 
under the DPP-4 % inhibition (effect)-time 
curve over the 24-hour period following the AM 
dosec
Maximum observed postprandial iGLP-1plasma 
concentration
Time of Cmax
AUEC0-3h
(iGLP-1)
Total AUEC0-3h
(iGLP-1)
AUC of iGLP-1 over the 3-hour period after each 
meal (breakfast, lunch, or dinner)
Sum of AUEC0-3h of iGLP-1 after every meal of 
the day (breakfast, lunch, and dinner)
Results and Analysis
Analysis 
description
Analysis population 
and time point 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Primary Analysis
PK population dataset, consisting of all subjects who had valid PK parameters on 
Day 7 for at least 1 of the treatments
Page 59/77
description
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability
Effect estimate per 
comparison
PD population dataset (DPP-4 and iGLP-1), consisting of all subjects who had 
valid PD parameters for at least 1 of the treatments
Treatment group
Saxa 2.5 mg BID
Saxa 5 mg QD
Number of subjects 
(PK/PD dataset)
AUC0-24h Geometric LS 
mean (ng•hr/mL) -
Saxagliptin
CV%
AUC0-24h Geometric LS 
mean (ng•hr/mL) -
BMS-510849d
CV%
AUEC0-24h (DPP-4) 
Geometric LS mean 
(%•hr)
CV%
Imax (DPP-4) (%)
CV%
Total AUEC0-3h (iGLP-1) 
Geometric LS mean 
(pM•hr), Day -1
CV%
Total AUEC0-3h (iGLP-1) 
Geometric LS mean 
(pM•hr), Day 7
CV%
Primary endpoint: 
AUC0-24h Geometric LS 
mean (ng•hr/mL) -
Saxagliptin
AUC0-24h Geometric LS 
mean (ng•hr/mL) -
BMS-510849d
Secondary endpoint: 
AUEC0-24h (DPP-4) 
Geometric LS mean 
(%•hr)
Secondary endpoint: 
Imax (DPP-4) (%)
16
99.27
15
325.81
19
1740.00
6
82.00
2
85.16
31
105.90
23
16
103.32
14
317.82
16
1838.45
4
82.03 (for AM dose)
3
84.07
30
106.53
27
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (BID/QD) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID vs 
Saxa 5 mg QD
104.08
(101.03, 107.22)*
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (BID/QD) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID vs 
Saxa 5 mg QD
97.55
(94.02, 101.21)*
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (BID/QD) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID vs 
Saxa 5 mg QD
105.66
(102.23, 109.20)*
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (BID/QD) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID vs 
Saxa 5 mg QD
100.03
(98.65, 101.43)*
P-value
NC
Secondary endpoint: 
Total AUEC0-3h (iGLP-1) 
Comparison groups
Saxa 5 mg QD: Day 7 vs 
Day -1
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 60/77
Analysis 
description
NA
Notes
Geometric LS mean 
(pM•hr)
Ratio (%) (Day 7/-1) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
124.35
(114.13, 135.49)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (Day 7/-1) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID: Day 7 
vs Day -1
126.72
(116.30, 138.07)
P-value
NC
Comparison groups
Ratio (%) (BID/QD) of 
Geometric LS Means
95% CI
Saxa 2.5 mg BID vs 
Saxa 5 mg QD (Day 7)
100.60
(92.33, 109.61)**
P-value
NC
Secondary analysis
NA
Source: CV181152 CSR
a A total of 16 subjects were randomized and received study medication. 
Subjects were randomly assigned to received either Saxa 5 mg QD or Saxa 2.5 
mg BID during the first 7-day treatment period. After a washout interval of at 
least 6 days, subjects received the other Saxa dosing regimen during the second 
7-day treatment period.
b Total daily exposure (AUC0-24h) is either: (1) the AUCtau value following the 
daily (AM) dose of the Saxa 5 mg QD regimen, or (2) the sum of the AUCtau
values following the AM and PM doses of the Saxa 2.5 mg BID regimen.
c Total daily DPP4 % inhibition (AUEC0-24h [DPP4]) is either: (1) the AUECtau
value following the AM dose of the Saxa 5 mg QD regimen, or (2) the sum of 
AUECtau values following the AM and PM doses of the Saxa 2.5 mg BID regimen.
d BMS-510849 is an active metabolite of saxagliptin and contributes to the 
efficacy of the parent molecule.
* The 90% CI of the ratios (%) of geometric least squares (LS) means (Saxa 
2.5 mg BID regimen vs Saxa 5 mg QD regiment) were entirely contained within 
the 80% to 125% criterion limits for concluding bioequivalence.
** Although there were no predefined criteria for equivalence, the Saxa 2.5 mg 
BID regimen appears to have an equivalent impact on iGLP-1 when compared 
with the Saxa 5 mg QD regimen with respect to the total AUEC0-3h of iGLP-1.
AM Morning; AUC Area under the plasma concentration-time curve; BID Twice 
daily; CI Confidence interval; CV Coefficient of variation; DPP-4 Dipeptidyl 
peptidase 4; LS Least squares; NA Not applicable; NC Not calculated; QD Once 
daily; Saxa Saxagliptin
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis)
N/A
Clinical studies in special populations
N/A
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 61/77
Supportive study(ies)
N/A
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy
The clinical  development program  included data  from  7  phase  3  studies with a  total of  4326  subjects 
randomised  and  treated,  of  whom  2158  received  saxagliptin  plus  metformin.  Data  included  in  this 
submission reflect up to 102 weeks total duration of treatment. 
Saxagliptin  added  on  to  metformin  has  been  evaluated  in  studies  CV181014  and  CV181080. 
However,  only  the  new  pivotal  study CV181080 investigated  the  intended  posology  of  2.5  mg 
saxagliptin BID added to metformin versus placebo added to metformin. In study CV181080, there was 
a statistically significant reduction in adjusted mean change in HbA1C from baseline to Week 12 in the 
saxagliptin treatment group compared with placebo (-0.56% vs -0.22%), but the effect size was small 
(-0.34%),  the  predefined  Δ  of  0.6%  was  not  reached,  and  the  duration  of  12  weeks  is  limited.  The 
reduction  in FPG was  numerically  greater, but this  was without  statistical  significance. Additionally, in 
study  CV181080 there  was  no  comparison  with  saxagliptin  5  mg  once  daily.  Thus,  there  was  no 
confirmation  that  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  is  as  efficacious  as  saxagliptin  5  mg  QD  when  added  to 
metformin. This was pointed out in the day 120 list of questions during the procedure and also led to 
the submission of study CV181152 during the procedure.
The  balance  of  evidence  concerning  the  effect  size  of  saxagliptin  added to  metformin,  as  previously 
evaluated in a  study with saxagliptin  2.5  mg  qD  (CV181014)  and  in  studies of  longer duration  (18  to 
52 weeks duration: the studies CV181080, D1680C00001, and D1680C00002) indicated that the effect 
size of the FDC during longer than 12 weeks is acceptable for the add on indication.
Concerning study CV181080, the Applicant was asked in the day 120 list of questions to perform a true 
ITT  analysis  in  which  the  observed  values  after  rescue/discontinuation  are  imputed,  instead  of  using 
LOCF data or exclusion of the missing data. Since the Applicant was not able to perform this analysis, 
alternative  methods  for  handling  missing  data  were  used.  The  step-wise  worse  case  sensitivity 
analyses  showed  that  imputation  of  unfavorable  values  up  to  9%  for  the  intervention  group  patients 
still  retained  the  statistical  significance  of  the  difference.  The  repeated  measurements  analysis  and 
BOCF analysis showed statistically significant HbA1c changes from baseline for the intervention group, 
compared to the control group. Therefore, the conclusion that “the reduction of HbA1c by Komboglyze 
is  statistically  significantly  better  than  by  placebo”,  was  reasonably  robust  against  the  missing  data, 
and therefore the CHMP found the efficacy of Komboglyze as an “add-on” indication in patients treated 
with metformin to be sufficiently supported.
During  the  procedure the  CHMP  questioned  whether  the  substantial  percentage  of  patients  (62%)  on 
metformin on doses ≥2000 mg daily at baseline in study CV181080 limits the relevance of this study 
for  the  proposed  posology  of  the  FDC  allowing  a  maximum  of  2000 mg  per  day  of  metformin.  The 
applicant argued that while the majority of patients received ≥2000 mg metformin per day, only 8.8% 
of  subjects  received  in  excess  of  2000  mg  per  day,  and  that  the  change  in  HbA1c  was  similar  in  the 
subgroups with >2000 mg metformin per day compared with ≤2000 mg, respectively, consistent with 
that  in  the  overall  study  population, which  was  found  to  be  satisfactory  by  the  CHMP. The  proposed 
dosages  of  metformin  in  the  FDC  with  saxagliptin  cover  the  most  commonly  used  dosages  of 
metformin, which for most patients also represents a maximally effective dosage. The same results can 
be  obtained  when  lower  doses  of  metformin  are  given,  like  those  that  can  be  obtained  with  the  FDC 
(maximally 2000 mg).
The  claimed  indication  also  consisted  of  a  switch  indication,  for  patients  already  on  metformin  BID + 
saxagliptin 5 mg QD switched to the FDC, which was ultimately found to be acceptable with regard to 
shown efficacy by the CHMP, because of the results of the newly submitted study PK study CV181152.
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy
For patients already on metformin BID + saxagliptin 5 mg QD switched to the FDC (switch indication), 
the balance of evidence showed therapeutic equivalence between saxagliptin 2.5 mg bid and 5 mg o.d. 
For  the  add-on  indication,  demonstration  of  relevant  add-on  effects  of  the  combination  in  non-
responders to metformin alone were also found to be acceptable by the CHMP.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 62/77
2.6.  Clinical safety
Clinical safety
As there is no meaningful PK interaction between saxagliptin and metformin, as reported in the original 
saxagliptin  (study  CV181017)  the  safety  and  tolerability  profile  of  co-administered  metformin  and 
saxagliptin is expected to be similar to those of the individual agents. 
In the subsequent sections, information is provided in detail with regard to the newly submitted study 
CV181080, which is the only available study where saxagliptin was used as 2.5 mg BID.
A  summary  of  clinical  cafety  concerning  this  application  is  mainly  based  on  phase  3  studies  that 
examined  saxagliptin  and  metformin  administered  as  combination  therapy  (separate  tablets)  in 
subjects  with  type  2  diabetes from  previous  phase  3  studies  included  in  the  initial  MAA  for  Onglyza, 
and  in  some  cases  their  extension.  Because  of  design  differences  among  these  phase  3  studies,  no 
pooling of data has been performed and the findings from these studies had been analyzed separately.
Patient exposure
Overall,  2158  patients  were  exposed  to  the  combination  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin,  including  FDC 
product,  in  phase  3  and  72  patients  in  phase  1. Mean  durations  of  exposure  to  saxagliptin  in 
combination  with metformin  (including  rescue)  were  greatest  in  the  phase  3  studies  CV181014  and 
CV181039. Mean duration of exposure to saxagliptin as add-on therapy to metformin ranged from 75
weeks to 81 weeks in study CV181014 at the cut-off date for the interim analysis (ST + LT). In study
CV181039, mean duration of exposure to saxagliptin in combination with metformin as initial therapy 
was  approximately  62  weeks  for  the  ST  +  LT  periods.  In  the  saxagliptin  monotherapy study 
(CV181038), mean duration of exposure to the 5-mg evening dose of saxagliptin was
60 weeks. Furthermore, mean duration of  exposure to  saxagliptin as add-on  therapy  to metformin  in 
the  ST  period  of  study  D1680C00001  was  45  weeks.  In  studies  D1680C00002, CV181080  and 
CV181066  the  mean  duration  of  exposure  were  17  weeks,  11.5  and  4.1  weeks,  respectively.  A 
summary of these studies is provided in the efficacy section of this report.
In study CV181080 in the saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID group 74 patients were included and 66 completed 
12 weeks, in the placebo group 86 were included and 78 completed 12 weeks.
Adverse events 
The  safety  assessment  during  the  original  MAA  of  saxagliptin  given  at  doses  of  2.5  and  5  mg  was 
associated  with  an  overall  clinical  AE  profile  that  was  comparable  to  placebo.  Upper  respiratory  tract 
infections  (URI),  headache  and  UTI  were  the  adverse  events  that  were  more  frequent  (≥5)  among 
subjects treated with the recommended dose of saxagliptin (5 mg) as compared to placebo. 
Adverse  events  of  special  interest  for  saxagliptin  included  hypoglycaemia,  skin  disorders,  infections,
lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, localized edema and cardiovascular events. 
Pancreatitis,  gastrointestinal-related  AEs,  hypersensitivity  reactions  and  fractures  were  identified  as 
AEs of special interest after the original saxagliptin registration dossier was prepared.
The second component of Komboglyze, metformin, has a well-established safety profile that includes
several common events (primarily gastrointestinal AEs such as nausea or diarrhoea) and as rare event
lactic acidosis occurring in predisposed patients (particularly those with renal insufficiency).
In comparison to metformin monotherapy, the saxagliptin/metformin combination was associated with 
an increase in the adverse drug reactions nasopharyngitis, dyspepsia, myalgia, gastritis, arthralgia and 
erectile dysfunction. These events are included in the RMP and the AEs reflected in the SPC.
Previously assessed studies:
Once-daily,  orally-administered  saxagliptin  was  safe  and  well-tolerated  at  the  doses  studied.
Saxagliptin given at doses of 2.5 and 5 mg was associated with an overall clinical AE profile that was 
comparable  to  placebo.  The  frequency  of  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  was  low,  most  frequently 
lymphopenia, increased blood CK, increased blood creatinine, nausea and eye pain.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 63/77
Rev06.11
In  the  placebo-controlled phase  3  studies, upper  respiratory  tract  infections  (URI),  headache and  UTI 
were  the  adverse  events  that  were  more  frequent  (≥5%  and  without  any  thresholds between 
treatment  groups)  among  subjects  treated  with  the  recommended  dose  of  saxagliptin  (5  mg) as 
compared  to  placebo.  The  monotherapy  study  CV181038  demonstrated  that  the  AE  profile  of 
saxagliptin was not compromised by evening administration.  
In  the  add-on  to  metformin  combination  study  (CV181014),  the  overall  frequency  of  AEs  (excluding 
events  of hypoglycaemia)  during  the  ST  period  was  higher  for  subjects  receiving  saxagliptin  (73.2%) 
relative  to placebo  (64.8%).  AEs  were  reported  by  78.1%,  69.6%,  and  71.8%  of  the  subjects  in  the 
saxagliptin 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg treatment groups, respectively. AEs were more frequent (>2%) 
in the pooled saxagliptin group than placebo group for the following SOCs: Infections and Infestations 
(38.3%  vs.  35.8%); Investigations;  Eye  Disorders;  Blood  and  Lymphatic  Disorders.  AEs  that  were 
more frequent (>1%) among saxagliptin- than placebo-treated subjects included: URI, abdominal pain, 
arthralgia, pharyngolaryngeal pain, and blood CK increased.
Adverse reactions with saxagliptin 5 mg were: upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection,
gastroenteritis, sinusitis, headache, and vomiting. Adverse events considered at least possibly related
(investigator assessed) to saxagliptin 5 mg were dyspepsia and myalgia.
Long  term  extension  of  this  study  was  assessed  in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/07  and 
EMEA/H/C/001039/FUM011  for  Onglyza.  No  new  safety  signals  were  detected  compared  with  the 
analyses after 24 weeks treatment.
In  the  short  term  treatment  period  of  the  initial  combination  study  (CV181039)  with  saxagliptin  10 
mg  plus  metformin,  diarrhoea  was  an  AE  in  10%  of  subjects.  Overall,  at  a  frequency  of  ≥  5%, 
nasopharyngitis, and  headache  were  more  common  for  subjects  receiving  initial  combination 
saxagliptin  5  mg  plus  metformin  relative  to  metformin  monotherapy.  Severe  nasopharyngitis  was 
reported for 1 subject in the saxagliptin 5 mg plus metformin group. Headache of severe intensity was 
reported for 2 subjects  in each of  the  control  groups  (saxagliptin 10  mg  monotherapy and  metformin 
monotherapy); otherwise,all of the events in the saxagliptin 5 mg plus metformin group were of mild 
or  moderate intensity.  The majority  of  these  AEs  were  considered  unrelated  to  treatment,  and  none 
resulted  in  discontinuation  of
treatment. Adverse  events  considered  at  least  possibly  related 
(investigator  assessed)  to  saxagliptin5  mg  plus  metformin  were:  gastritis,  arthralgia,  myalgia,  and 
erectile dysfunction. The overall safety of the initial combination use of saxagliptin 5mg plus metformin 
was  similar  to  saxagliptin  monotherapy  or metformin monotherapy.  Long-term  results  were  assessed 
in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/07.    Compared  to  the  short  term  period  no  new  and  unexpected 
safety concerns were identified. 
The following adverse events of special interest were identified:
Hypoglycaemia: Incidence of hypoglycaemia was low with saxagliptin treatment in the original MAA.
Skin  disorders:  Evaluation of clinical data did not revealed signals that correlate to the skin findings 
in the Cynomolgus monkey. Taking into consideration the fact that skin lesions are a concern for other 
DPP-4  inhibitors  and  the limited  experience  in  patients  with  diabetic  skin  complications  treated  with 
saxagliptin, this issue is reflected in the SPC. 
Infections: The frequency of infection-related AEs leading to discontinuation was low. 
Lymphopenia  and  thrombocytopenia: At  a  saxagliptin  dose  of  5  mg,  a  small decrease  in  mean 
absolute  lymphocyte  count  from  baseline  was  observed;  the  decreases  were  not associated  with 
clinically relevant adverse events. There is no evidence that there is an effect of saxagliptin treatment 
on platelet count that is of clinical importance
Localized edema: The frequency of localized edema adverse events was low.
Cardiovascular  events:  Overall,  the  frequency  of  cardiovascular  AEs  was  low  across  the 
monotherapy  studies  and  the  add-on combination  studies.  In  these  studies,  the  frequency  of 
cardiovascular  deaths  was  0.2%  (4/2043)  in  subjects  treated  with  saxagliptin  and  0.8%  (6/799)  in 
subjects  in  the  control  group.  The overall  experience  in  patients  with  heart  failure  and  other  cardiac 
disorders  is  limited  by  the  inclusion criteria  in  the  studies.  The  limited  experience  heart  failure  is 
reflected in the SPC.
Hypersensitivity reactions: The frequency of hypersensitivity reaction adverse events was low. This 
is  of  importance  as  in  other DDP4-inhibitors  in  the  long-term  an  increased  risk  of  hypersensitivity 
reaction adverse events has been reported. These events are included in the RMP and the AEs reflected 
in the SPC.
The frequency of serious adverse events (SAEs) was generally comparable between the saxagliptin and 
control  groups  throughout  the  main  phase  3  studies.  Serious  adverse  events  were  uncommon  in  all 
studies,  and  there  was  no  predominance  of  any  single, specific  SAE  associated  with  saxagliptin 
treatment. In the individual studies, SAEs considered to be related to study drug (≤0.9%) or leading to 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 64/77
Rev06.11
discontinuation  (≤1.6%)  were  infrequent  in  subjects  who received  saxagliptin  and  occurred  at  rates 
generally comparable to that of placebo.
The frequency of deaths in the phase 2b/3 studies was similar in subjects who received saxagliptin and
placebo.    One  death  in  saxagliptin  and  one  in  the  metformin  group  (CV181039)  were  considered 
possibly related to study medication.
The  clinical  adverse  event  profile  of  saxagliptin  did  not  differ  consistently  within  major  subgroups,
including by gender, age (<65 and ≥65 years), race, ethnicity, BMI, duration of diabetes, and degree 
of renal  insufficiency.  In  an  analysis  of  5  pooled  placebo-controlled  monotherapy  and  combination
studies,  71.3%  of  subjects  <65  years  of  age  treated  with  saxagliptin  and  67.2%  of  subjects  in  the
placebo  group  were  reported  to  have  AEs.  AEs  were  reported  in  fewer  subjects  ≥ 65  years  of  age
treated  with  saxagliptin  compared  with  subjects  treated  with  placebo  (71.3%  and  79.6%, 
respectively).
Actively controlled studies 
D1680C00001 (saxagliptin plus metformin versus glipizide plus metformin). 
This  study  was  assessed  in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/05  of  Onglyza.  It  was  concluded  that 
saxagliptin added to metformin was safe and well tolerated.
There  was  no  saxagliptin-associated  pancreatitis.  Saxagliptin  resulted  in  a  significantly  lower 
proportion  of  patients  with  hypoglycaemia:  3%  versus  36.3%  for  glipizide.  Saxaglitpin  treatment 
resulted  in  a  decrease  from  baseline  in  body  weight  as  compared  with  glipizide.  Overall  safety  was 
acceptable without any unexpected events.
D1680C00002 (saxagliptin plus metformin to sitagliptin plus metformin). 
This  study  was  assessed  in  variation  EMEA/H/C/001039/II/06  of  Onglyza.  Overall,  the  numbers  of 
subjects  experiencing  any  AE  or  SAE  were  similar  between  the  treatment  groups,  and  no  new, 
unexpected adverse events were seen.
The  number of  hypoglycaemia  was  low  in  both  groups,  however,  there  were  several  incidents  of 
hyperglycaemia. This happened more often in the saxagliptin group in comparison with the sitagliptin 
group. There was a modest mean decrease in body weight in both treatment groups.
Adverse events in the newly submitted study CV181080:
Table19: Overall Summary of Adverse Events During Double-Blind Treatment Period
Subjects experiencing at least one AE was 25.7% for saxa- treated subjects as compared with 39.5% 
of subjects in the placebo group. No subjects discontinued due to AEs or SAEs.
The overall incidence of most common AEs (incidence ≥2%) during the double-blind treatment period, 
excluding  all  events  of  hypoglycaemia,  was  24.3%  in  subjects  receiving  saxagliptin  compared  with
39.5%  in  subjects  receiving  placebo  (table  19). AEs  occurring  in ≥  2  subjects  receiving  saxagliptin 
were:  back  pain,  dizziness,  hypertension,  lymphadenopathy,  and  nasopharyngitis,  (all  in  2  subjects 
each, 2.7%). AEs occurring in ≥ 2 subjects receiving placebo were: back pain, diarrhea, headache, and 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 65/77
muscle  spasms  (all  in  3  subjects  each,  3.5%)  and  bronchitis,  cholecystitis,  hypertension, 
nasopharyngitis, and sinus congestion (all in 2 subjects each, 2.3%).
The only SOC for  which there  was a  ≥  5.0%  difference in  the  incidence  of AEs for  saxagliptin  overall 
versus  placebo  was  Infections  and  Infestations:  saxagliptin  5  subjects,  6.8%;  placebo  11  subjects, 
12.8%.
Table  20:  Most  Common  Adverse  Events  (Incidence  ≥  2%)  -  Summary  by  System  Organ  Class  and 
Preferred Term
The  only  subject  with  a  confirmed  hypoglycemic  event  (symptoms  with  finger  stick  glucose  ≤  50 
mg/dL) was a placebo subject. Four (5.4%) subjects in the saxagliptin group and 1 (1.2%) subject in 
the placebo  group experienced a  hypoglycemic  AE. All  events  were of  mild  or  moderate  intensity and 
no subjects required medical assistance.
There were no AEs of skin disorders, lymphopenia, localized edema, hypersensitivity, fractures, nor of 
pancreatitis.  Percentage  subjects  who  experienced  at  least  1  AE  was  lower  in  saxagliptin-treated 
subjects (25.7%) compared with subjects in the placebo group (39.5%). This difference was scattered 
over  many  SOCs,  including  Infections  and  Infestations  (6.8%  versus  12.8%),  Musculoskeletal  and 
Connective Tissue Disorders (5.4% versus 9.3%), and Gastrointestinal Disorders (4.1% versus 7.0%). 
There was 1 SAE in each arm, and no subjects discontinued due to AEs.
Summary
Based on information from trials performed at the time of the initial MAA for Onglyza, trials performed 
post marketing, and from spontaneous reports, the most common adverse reactions with the combined 
use of saxagliptin and metformin are upper respiratory infection, urinary tract infection, gastroenteritis, 
sinusitis,  nasopharyngitis,  headache,  vomiting,  nausea  and  rash.  A  common  side  effect  of  metformin 
use is metallic taste.
From  post  marketing  trials  and  spontaneous  reports  of  Onglyza,  additional,  uncommon  adverse 
reactions  emerged:  pancreatitis  (now  mentioned  in  section  4.8  of  the  SPC,  and  also  included  as  a 
warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  to  raise  awareness),  serious  hypersensitivity  reactions  including 
anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactic shock and angioedema (included now in section 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of 
the SPC), dermatitis, pruritus, and urticaria.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 66/77
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events
In study CV181080 no deaths were reported. One subject in each treatment group reported at least 1 
SAE during the double-blind treatment period, none of which was considered by the investigator to be 
related to study drug. 
In  previous  studies,  the  frequency  of  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  was  generally  comparable 
between  the  saxagliptin and  control  groups  throughout  the  main  phase  3  studies.  Serious  adverse 
events  were  uncommon  in  all  studies,  and  there  was  no  predominance  of  any  single, specific  SAE 
associated with saxagliptin treatment. In the individual studies, SAEs considered to be related to study 
drug  (≤0.9%)  or  leading  to  discontinuation  (≤1.6%)  were  infrequent  in  subjects  who received 
saxagliptin and occurred at rates generally comparable to that of placebo.
The frequency of deaths in the phase 2b/3 studies was similar in subjects who received saxagliptin and
placebo.  One  death  in  saxagliptin  and  one  in  the  metformin  group  (CV181039)  were  considered 
possibly related to study medication
Laboratory findings
In  study  CV181080  mean  absolute  lymphocyte  counts  were  generally  stable  across  both  treatment 
groups.  No  MA  in  platelet  count  was  reported.  There  were  no  MAs  in  ALP  or  total  bilirubin  in  either 
treatment group. One subject in the saxagliptin group had MAs in AST and ALT (>3 xULN but not >5 x 
ULN) and baseline levels of AST and ALT were elevated in this subject. Laboratory studies, vital signs 
and ECGs did not reveal a safety signal. No safety signal was detected for any of these types of events.
Safety in special populations
In  study  CV181080  the  AE  profiles  across  the  saxagliptin  and  comparator  group  were  similar  within 
subgroups by age (<65 and ≥65 years) and sex, as compared with the overall study population.
Because of the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis when renal function is impaired, the 
SPC states that Komboglyze is contraindicated in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance <60 mL/min).
Because of the elevated risk of lactic acidosis in patients with hepatic impairment the SPC states  that 
Komboglyze is contraindicated in patients with hepatic impairment.
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant and lactating women. Until April 2010, 
no reports of lactating women taking saxagliptin were revealed.
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions
There  have  been  no  formal  interaction  studies  for  Komboglyze.  Based  on  the  evaluation  of  study 
CV181017 in the original MAA of Onlgyza, there is no indication of a significant interaction between the 
individual  components  of  Komboglyze,  and  this  is  therfore acceptable. No  new  and  unexpected  drug-
drug interaction and other interactions have been reported.
Discontinuation due to adverse events
In study CV181080 there was 1 SAE in each arm, and no subjects discontinued due to AEs.
Post marketing experience
Komboglyze is not marketed, therefore no postmarketing experience is available for the FDC product. 
The most recent review of the safety data for Onglyza (saxagliptin) did not reveal any new significant 
safety issues. Additional, uncommon adverse reactions emerging from spontaneous reports of Onglyza 
have been adressed as described above. The safety profile of saxagliptin remains similar to the profile 
established during clinical trials. Metformin is a widely available and an established treatment for T2DM 
that has proven to be safe at recommended doses. 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 67/77
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety
The  safety  and  tolerability  profile  of  co-administered  saxagliptin  and  metformin  is  expected  to  be 
similar  to  those  of  the individual  components,  as  there  is  no  indication  of  a  significant  interaction 
between  the  individual  components  in  the  FDC  (CV181017)  and  no  new  and  unexpected  drug-drug 
interaction or other interactions were reported.
Overall,  2158  patients  were  exposed  to  the  combination  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin,  including  FDC 
product,  in  phase  3  and  72  patients  in  phase  1.  The  application  did  not  contain  a  full  summary  of 
safety  data  due  to  differing  study  designs,  but  provided  safety  reports  of  the  individual  studies.  The 
safety  assessment  during  the  original  MAA  of  saxagliptin  given  at  doses  of  2.5  and  5  mg  was 
associated  with  an  overall  clinical  AE  profile  that  was  comparable  to  placebo.  Upper  respiratory  tract 
infections  (URI),  headache  and  UTI  were  the  adverse  events  that  were  more  frequent  (≥5)  among 
subjects treated with the recommended dose of saxagliptin (5 mg) as compared to placebo. 
Adverse  events  of  special  interest  for  saxagliptin  included  hypoglycaemia,  skin  disorders,  infections,
  Pancreatitis, 
lymphopenia, 
gastrointestinal-related  AEs,  hypersensitivity  reactions  and  fractures  were  identified  as  AEs  of  special 
interest after the original saxagliptin registration dossier was prepared.
In comparison to metformin monotherapy, the saxagliptin/metformin combination was associated with 
an increase in the adverse drug reactions nasopharyngitis, dyspepsia, myalgia, gastritis, arthralgia and 
erectile dysfunction. These events are included in the RMP and the AEs reflected in the SPC.
localized  edema  and  cardiovascular  events. 
thrombocytopenia, 
The  overall  profile  of  AEs  associated  with  extended  dosing  of  saxagliptin  for  up  to  2  years  was 
consistent with that seen at 24 weeks. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the
SPC.
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety
Once-daily,  orally-administered  saxagliptin  was  safe  and  well-tolerated  at  the  doses  studied,  and  the 
safty profile of metformin is well known. The safety of the combined use of saxagliptin and metformin 
therapy has been extensively characterized in the original saxagliptin registration dossier. 
The  safety  findings  from  the  recently  submitted  phase  3  studies  presented  in  this  application  are
generally  consistent  with  the  results  of  AE  assessments  in  the  original  Onglyza  registration  dossier.
There  were  no  unexpected  adverse  events. In  general,  the  observed  adverse  events  profile  of 
saxagliptin/metformin was acceptable and manageable.
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system
Pharmacovigilance system
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan
The applicant submitted a risk management plan.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 68/77
Table 21: Summary of the risk management plan
Safety issue
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities
Important identified risks
Lactic acidosis
Routine PV
Proposed risk minimisation activities
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Lactic acidosis is listed in the product 
labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration
Monitoring of renal function is necessary 
to prevent metformin- associated lactic 
acidosis, particularly in the elderly.
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use
Lactic acidosis is a very rare, but serious 
(high mortality in the absence of prompt 
treatment), metabolic complication that 
can occur due to metformin, a 
component of Komboglyze, 
accumulation. Reported cases of lactic 
acidosis in patients on metformin have 
occurred primarily in diabetic patients 
with significant renal failure. The 
incidence of lactic acidosis can and 
should be reduced by also assessing 
other associated risk factors such as 
poorly controlled diabetes, ketosis, 
prolonged fasting, excessive alcohol 
intake, hepatic insufficiency and any 
conditions associated with hypoxia.
Lactic acidosis is characterised by 
acidotic dyspnoea, abdominal pain and 
hypothermia followed by coma. 
Diagnostic laboratory findings are 
decreased blood pH, plasma lactate 
levels above 5 mmol/l, and an increased 
anion gap and lactate/pyruvate ratio. If 
metabolic acidosis is suspected, 
treatment with the medicinal product 
should be discontinued and the patient 
hospitalised immediately.
The intravascular administration of 
iodinated contrast agents in radiological 
studies can lead to renal failure which 
has been associated with lactic acidosis 
in patients receiving metformin.
As Komboglyze contains metformin, a 
patient with type  2  diabetes previously 
well controlled on Komboglyze who 
develops laboratory abnormalities or 
clinical illness (especially vague and 
poorly defined illness) should be 
evaluated promptly for evidence of 
ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis.
Section 4.5 Interaction with other 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 69/77
Hypersensitivity 
reactions
Routine PV
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction
There is increased risk of lactic acidosis 
in acute alcohol intoxication (particularly 
in the case of fasting, malnutrition or 
hepatic impairment) due to the 
metformin active substance of 
Komboglyze. Consumption of alcohol 
and medicinal products containing 
alcohol should be avoided.
The intravascular administration of 
iodinated contrast agents in radiological 
studies may lead to renal failure, 
resulting in metformin accumulation and 
a risk of lactic acidosis. Therefore 
Komboglyze must should be 
discontinued prior to, or at the time of 
the test and not reinstituted until 48 
hours afterwards, and only after renal 
function has been re- evaluated and 
found to be normal.
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Lactic acidosis is listed as a very rare 
adverse reaction.
Section 4.9 Overdose
High overdose or concomitant risks of 
metformin may lead to lactic acidosis. 
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency 
and must be treated in hospital. The 
most effective method to remove lactate 
and metformin is haemodialysis.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific hypersensitivity reactions are 
listed in the product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.3 Contradindications
hypersensitivity to the active 
substance(s) or to any of the excipients, 
or history of a serious hypersensitivity 
reaction, including anaphylactic 
reaction, anaphylactic shock, and 
angioedema, to any dipeptidyl peptidase 
4 (DPP4) inhibitor.
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use;
As Komboglyze contains saxagliptin, it 
should not be used in patients who have 
had any serious hypersensitivity 
reaction to a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 
(DPP4) inhibitor. 
During postmarketing experience, 
including spontaneous reports and 
clinical trials, the following adverse 
reactions have been reported with the 
use of saxagliptin: serious 
hypersensitivity reactions, including 
anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactic 
shock, and angioedema. If a serious 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 70/77
Pancreatitis
Routine PV
Pancreatitis is a safety objective 
in a large cardiovascular 
outcomes trial for Onglyza
Hepatitis
Routine PV
Infections
Routine PV
Gastrointestinal-
related AEs
Routine PV
Vitamin B12 
deficiency
Routine PV
hypersensitivity reaction to saxagliptin is 
suspected, discontinue Komboglyze,
assess for other potential causes for the 
event, and institute alternative 
treatment for diabetes.
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Hypersensitivity reactions are listed as 
an uncommon adverse reaction.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Pancreatitis is listed in the product 
labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use
In post-marketing experience with 
saxagliptin, there have been 
spontaneously reported adverse 
reactions of acute pancreatitis. Patients 
should be informed of the characteristic 
symptom of acute pancreatitis: 
persistent, severe abdominal pain. 
Resolution of pancreatitis has been 
observed after discontinuation of 
saxagliptin. If pancreatitis is suspected, 
Komboglyze and other potentially 
suspect medicinal products should be 
discontinued.
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Pancreatitis is listed as an uncommon 
adverse reaction.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Hepatitis is listed in the product labeling 
(SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Hepatitis is listed as a very rare adverse 
reaction.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific infections are listed in the 
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Upper respiratory tract infection, urinary 
tract infection, gastroenteritis, sinusitis 
and nasopharyngitis are listed as 
common adverse reactions.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific GI-related AEs are listed in the 
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Vomiting is listed as a common adverse 
reaction.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Vitamin B12 deficiency is listed in the 
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Vitamin B12 deficiency is listed as a 
very rare adverse reaction.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 71/77
Important Potential Risks
Skin lesions (ulcer, 
erosion, and
necrosis)
Routine PV
Lymphopenia
Routine PV
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Skin lesions are described in the product 
labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use
Ulcerative and necrotic skin lesions have 
been reported in extremities of monkeys 
in non clinical toxicology studies for 
saxagliptin. Although skin lesions were 
not observed at an increased incidence 
in clinical trials, there is limited 
experience in patients with diabetic skin 
complications. Postmarketing reports of 
rash have been described in the DPP4 
inhibitor class. Rash is also noted as an 
adverse event (AE) for saxagliptin. 
Therefore, in keeping with routine care 
of the diabetic patient, monitoring for 
skin disorders, such as blistering, 
ulceration or rash, is recommended.
Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data
In cynomolgus monkeys saxagliptin 
produced reversible skin lesions (scabs, 
ulcerations and necrosis) in extremities 
(tail, digits, scrotum and/or nose) at 
doses ≥ 3 mg/kg/day. The no effect 
level (NOEL) for the lesions is 1 and 2 
times the human exposure of saxagliptin 
and the major metabolite respectively, 
at the recommended human dose of 5 
mg/day (RHD). 
The clinical relevance of the skin lesions 
is not known, however clinical correlates 
to skin lesions in monkeys have not 
been observed in human clinical trials of 
saxagliptin.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Effect on lymphocyte counts is described 
in the product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Across clinical studies, the incidence of 
laboratory adverse event was similar in 
patients treated with saxagliptin 5 mg 
compared to patients treated with 
placebo. A small decrease in absolute 
lymphocyte count was observed. From a 
baseline mean absolute lymphocyte 
count of approximately 2,200 cells/μl, a 
mean decrease of approximately 100 
cells/μl relative to placebo was observed 
in the placebo controlled pooled 
analysis. Mean absolute lymphocyte 
counts remained stable with daily dosing 
up to 102 weeks in duration. The 
decreases in lymphocyte count were not 
associated with clinically relevant 
adverse reactions. The clinical 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 72/77
Thrombocytopenia
Routine PV
Hypoglycemia
Routine PV
Bone fracture
Routine PV
Severe cutaneous 
adverse
Reactions
Opportunistic 
infections
Routine PV
Routine PV
Important  Missing/Limited Information
Safety in patient ≥ 75 
years of age
Routine PV
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
significance of this decrease in 
lymphocyte count relative to placebo is 
not known.
None
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Hypoglycemia is described in the 
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects
Adverse reactions of hypoglycaemia 
were based on all reports of 
hypoglycaemia; a concurrent glucose 
measurement was not required. The 
incidence of reported hypoglycaemia for 
saxagliptin 5 mg versus placebo given 
as add on therapy to metformin was 
5.8% versus 5%. The incidence of 
reported hypoglycaemia was 3.4% in 
treatment- naive patients given 
saxagliptin 5 mg plus metformin and 
4.0% in patients given metformin alone.
None
None
None
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific information for the elderly 
population is described in the product
labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration
As metformin and saxagliptin are 
excreted by the kidney, Komboglyze 
should be used with caution in the 
elderly. Monitoring of renal function is 
necessary to prevent metformin-
associated lactic acidosis, particularly in 
the elderly. 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use
Experience in patients aged 75 years 
and older is very limited with saxagliptin 
and caution should be exercised when 
treating this population.
Section 5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
Elderly patients (65-80  years) had 
about 60% higher saxagliptin AUC than 
young patients (18-40 years). This is 
not considered clinically meaningful, 
therefore, no dose adjustment for 
Komboglyze is recommended on the 
basis of age alone.
Page 73/77
Safety in paediatric
population <
18 years of age
Routine PV
A paediatric plan (eg, PIP) for 
saxagliptin has been approved
by EMA 
Patients with 
cardiovascular 
disease (defined as 
significant 
cardiovascular 
history within 6 
months) and patients 
with compromised 
cardiac function 
(CHF) III and IV
Routine PV
A large cardiovascular outcomes 
trial for Onglyza is being 
conducted to evaluate the effect 
of saxagliptin on the incidence of 
CV death, myocardial infarction, 
or ischaemic stroke in patients 
with Type 2 diabetes
Ongoing CV adjudication in 
saxagliptin clinical trial program
Saxagliptin epidemiology 
program for further risk 
evaluation of major adverse 
cardiovascular events.
Safety in 
immunocompromised
Patients
Routine PV
Safety in 
pregnancy/breast
feeding
Routine PV
Safety not established in this 
population. 
Specific information for the paediatric 
population is described in the
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration
The safety and efficacy of Komboglyze 
in children from birth to < 18 years of 
age have not been established. No data 
are available.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific information for this population 
is described in the product labeling 
(SmPC):
Section 4.3 Contraindication
Komboglyze is contraindicated in 
patients with: acute or chronic disease 
which may cause tissue hypoxia such 
as:
cardiac or respiratory failure,
recent myocardial infarction,
shock
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Warning and precaution information for 
immunocompromised patients is 
described in the product labeling 
(SmPC):
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use
Immunocompromised patients, such as 
patients who have undergone organ 
transplantation or patients diagnosed 
with human immunodeficiency 
syndrome, have not been studied in the 
saxagliptin clinical program. Therefore, 
the efficacy and safety profile of 
saxagliptin in these patients has not 
been established.
Product labeling is sufficient to address 
safety concern.
Specific information (warnings and 
precautions) regarding the use of
saxagliptin metformin FDC in pregnancy 
and nursing women is described in the 
product labeling (SmPC):
Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and 
lactation
The use of Komboglyze or saxagliptin 
has not been studied in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity at high doses of 
saxagliptin alone or in combination with 
metformin. The potential risk for 
humans is unknown. A limited amount 
of data suggest the use of metformin in 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 74/77
pregnant women is not associated with 
an increased risk of congenital 
malformations. Animal studies with 
metformin do not indicate harmful 
effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonic or foetal development, 
parturition or postnatal development. 
Komboglyze should not be used during 
pregnancy. If the patient wishes to 
become pregnant, or if a pregnancy 
occurs, treatment with Komboglyze 
should be discontinued and switched to 
insulin treatment as soon as possible.
Studies in animals have shown excretion 
of both saxagliptin and/or metabolite 
and metformin in milk. It is unknown 
whether saxagliptin is excreted in 
human milk, but metformin is excreted 
in human milk in small amounts. 
Komboglyze must therefore not be used 
in women who are breast-feeding.
Malignancy/neoplasm Routine PV
None
Assessment in cardiovascular 
outcomes study for Onglyza
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product.
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.
2.8.  User consultation
.
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use.
3.
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits
Beneficial effects
The  benefits  with  Komboglyze  are:  1)  its  reduction  of  blood  glucose  levels  in  patients  inadequately 
controlled  by  metformin  alone  as  “add-on”  to  an  existing  metformin  monotherapy  and  2)  as  being 
equivalent  in  its glucose-lowering  effect  compared  to the  combined  use of  saxagliptin 5mg  once  daily 
and metformin twice daily as an alternative option for patients being treated with these 2 medicines as 
separate tablets already (“switch indication”).
With  regard  to  1)  the  use  of  Komboglyze  following  a  monotherapy  with  metformin  it  was  shown  in 
study  CV181080,  that  after  12  weeks  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant 
greater  reduction  in  HbA1c  from  baseline  than  placebo,  when  added  to  metformin.  The  difference  in 
the  adjusted  mean  change  from  baseline  versus  placebo  was  -0.34%  (95%  CI  [-0.58,  -0.10]).  In 
addition,  effects  on  FPG  were  numerically  greater  in  the  saxagliptin  2.5  mg  group,  although  the 
difference was not statistically significant.
With  regard  to  2)  the  “switch  indication”  the  criteria  for  bioequivalence  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin 
from  the  2.5  mg  saxagliptin/850  mg  metformin  FDC  tablets  compared  to  co-administered  2.5  mg 
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Page 75/77
Rev06.11
saxagliptin  and  850  mg  EU-sourced  metformin  as  separate  tablets  under  both  fed  and  fasted 
conditions were met for Cmax, AUC(INF) and AUC(0-T) (study CV181121). Furthermore, the applicant 
demonstrated in a newly submitted PK/PD study (CV181152) that saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID is equivalent 
to saxagliptin 5 mg QD in terms of PK/PD. This study showed that over 24 hours, AUC(0-24 h), one 5 
mg saxagliptin tablet and 2 combination tablets containing 2.5 mg saxagliptin is bioequivalent in terms 
of exposure. The inhibition of DPP-IV activity and elevation in iGLP-1 activity by saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID 
were also equivalent to the 5 mg QD regimen. This, together with clinical data, allowed the conclusion 
that a difference seen in Cmax, within this dose range, does not result in differences in glucose lowering 
activity.Komboglyze  was  thus  shown  to  be  equivalent  in  its  glucose-lowering  effect  compared  to  the 
combined use of saxagliptin 5mg once daily and metformin in its corresponding dose given twice daily. 
It  can  be  assumed,  that  the  use  of  only  one  type  of  tablet  instead  of  two  may  improve  patient 
compliance.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects.
The effect  size  in  study  CV181080 was small  and  its  clinical  relevance with  regard to  HbA1c  lowering 
effect debatable (-0.34%) and the 95% confidence interval (CI) was wide (-0.58, -0.10). Furthermore, 
the  predefined  Δ  of  0.6%  was  not  reached,  but  nevertheless  a  significant  effect  on  HbA1c  was 
demonstrated and thus acceptable (see Discussion section below).
Risks
Unfavourable effects
Saxagliptin  2.5  mg  BID  added  to  metformin  BID  was  well  tolerated  and  there  were  no  unexpected 
adverse events.
Based on information from trials performed at the time of the initial MAA for Onglyza, trials performed 
post marketing, and from spontaneous reports, the most common adverse reactions with the combined 
use of saxagliptin and metformin are upper respiratory infection, urinary tract infection, gastroenteritis, 
sinusitis,  nasopharyngitis,  headache,  vomiting,  nausea  and  rash.  A  common  side  effect  of  metformin 
use is metallic taste.
From  post  marketing  trials  and  spontaneous  reports  of  Onglyza,  additional,  uncommon  adverse 
reactions emerged: pancreatitis (mentioned in section 4.8 of the SPC, and also included as a warning 
in section 4.4 of the SPC to raise awareness), serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic 
reaction,  anaphylactic  shock  and  angioedema  (included  in  section  4.3,  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC), 
dermatitis, pruritus, and urticaria.
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects
Elderly patients and  patients  with  co-morbidities  were  excluded. This  exclusion  makes an assessment 
of the efficacy and safety in such subjects impossible. These uncertainties are reflected in the SmPC.
Benefit Risk Balance
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The  single  benefit  with  regard  to  the  “switch  indication”  is  the  assumption  of  a  benefitial  effect  on 
patient  compliance  in  the  long  term  treatment.  The  benefit  of  the  “add  on”  indication  is  improved 
glycaemic control. The combination of saxagliptin and metformin is well tolerated and has not resulted 
in unexpected unfavourable effects.
Benefit-risk balance
The overall B/R of Komboglyze is positive.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 76/77
Discussion on the Benefit Risk Balance
The indication consists of a switch indication, for patients already on metformin BID + saxagliptin 5 mg 
QD  switched  to  the  FDC,  and  an  add-on  indication  for  patients  insufficiently  controlled  on  metformin 
BID alone.
For the switch  indication, it was  shown that saxagliptin 2.5 mg BID was equivalent to saxagliptin 5 
mg QD in terms of exposure and PD. The lower Cmax, within this dose range does not impact its glucose 
lowering  activity.  The  use  of  Komboglyze,  compared  to  the  use  of  saxagliptin  and  metformin  as 
individual tablets, is to be equally efficacious with the assumed benefit of improved compliance.
For the add-on  indication, demonstration of add-on effects of the combination in non-responders to 
metformin alone was acceptable. Study CV181080 demonstrated efficacy, but the effect size was small
and  its  clinical  relevance debatable (-0.34%  reduction  in  HbA1c). As  equivalence  between  saxagliptin 
2.5  mg BID and saxagliptin 5  mg QD  has been  demonstrated,  the assessment took also  into account 
the  larger  effect  size  seen  in  larger,  previous  clinical  studies  where  saxagliptin  5  mg  was  added  to 
metformin  and  for  which  and  add-on  indication  has  been  approved,  and  therefore  in  analogy  this 
indication  was  also  acceptable  for  the  FDC  with  regard  to  demonstrated  efficacy.  As  no  unexpected 
adverse side effects occurred, these indications were considered acceptable by the CHMP.
4. Recommendations
Outcome
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Kombogyze  in  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  is  favourable  and 
therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions:
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation 
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market.
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed  in the  Risk Management  Plan  (RMP)  presented  in  Module 1.8.2  of the marketing authorisation 
and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP.
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR).
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted:
 When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities
 Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
 at the request of the EMA
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow the standard requirements.
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product
Not applicable
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States.
Not applicable.
Komboglyze
CHMP assessment report
Rev06.11
Page 77/77
