EMA/244286/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005244 
Koselugo (selumetinib) 
An overview of Koselugo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Koselugo and what is it used for? 
Koselugo is a medicine used to treat plexiform neurofibromas, benign (non-cancerous) tumours along 
the nerves, when they cause symptoms and cannot be removed by surgery in children from 3 years of 
age with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).  
NF1 is rare, and Koselugo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
31 July 2018. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3182050. 
Koselugo contains the active substance selumetinib. 
How is Koselugo used? 
Koselugo is available as capsules and can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be 
started by a doctor experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of NF1-related tumours. 
The recommended dose of Koselugo is based on the patient’s weight and height. The medicine is taken 
twice a day, about 12 hours apart, on an empty stomach. The medicine should not be given to patients 
who cannot swallow the capsule whole.  
Before and during treatment with Koselugo, the doctor will check how well the patient’s heart, eyes 
and liver are working. Treatment should be continued for as long as the patient improves or remains 
stable and the side effects are tolerable. The doctor may reduce the dose or stop treatment 
temporarily or permanently if certain side effects occur. 
For more information about using Koselugo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Koselugo work? 
The active substance in Koselugo, selumetinib, blocks enzymes called MEK1 and MEK 2 (MEK1/2) 
which are involved in stimulating cells to grow. MEK1/2 are overactive in NF1, making tumour cells 
grow uncontrollably. By blocking these enzymes, Koselugo helps slow down growth of the tumour cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Koselugo have been shown in studies? 
A main study found that Koselugo is effective at treating plexiform neurofibromas in children with NF1 
by shrinking the size of these tumours. In the study, tumour size decreased by at least 20% in 33 out 
of 50 (66%) children aged 3 years and older with NF1 and plexiform neurofibromas that could not be 
removed by surgery. In the study, Koselugo was not compared with any other medicine. 
What are the risks associated with Koselugo? 
The most common side effects with Koselugo (which may affect more than 4 in 10 people) are 
vomiting, rash, increased blood creatine phosphokinase (an enzyme released into the blood when 
muscle is damaged), diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), asthenic events (feeling weak), dry skin, fever, 
acneiform rash (a rash resembling acne), hypoalbuminaemia (low levels of albumin, a blood protein), 
increased aspartate aminotransferase (an enzyme indicating a possible sign of liver problems) and 
paronychia (nail bed infection). 
The most common serious side effects with Koselugo (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea, anaemia (low red blood cell count), fever, increased blood creatine phosphokinase and 
increased blood creatinine (a sign of kidney problems). 
Koselugo must not be used in patients with severe liver disease. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Koselugo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Koselugo authorised in the EU? 
Plexiform neurofibromas can cause disfigurement, movement difficulties, pain and nerve problems. For 
children with plexiform neurofibromas that cannot be removed by surgery, there are no authorised 
treatment options; therefore, there is an important unmet medical need. Koselugo has been shown to 
be effective at shrinking tumour size in such children aged 3 years and older. The number of children 
included in the trial was small due to the rarity of the disease. Although data on safety were limited, 
they indicate that Koselugo’s side effects are manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Koselugo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Koselugo has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Koselugo? 
Since Koselugo has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets the medicine will 
provide further information from two ongoing studies that aim to confirm the benefits and safety of 
Koselugo in children with NF1 aged 3 years and above. The company will also carry out a third study in 
children to provide more information on the long-term safety of the medicine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Koselugo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Koselugo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Koselugo (selumetinib)  
EMA/244286/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Koselugo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Koselugo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Koselugo 
Koselugo received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 June 2021. 
Further information on Koselugo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/koselugo.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2021. 
Koselugo (selumetinib)  
EMA/244286/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
