21 May 2015 
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Kuvan  
International non-proprietary name: SAPROPTERIN 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000943/II/0033 
Note 
Variation  assessment  report  as  adopted  by  the  CHMP  with  all  information  of  a  commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 8 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics .............................................................................................. 9 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 17 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Dose response studies ..................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Main study ..................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 38 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 39 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 47 
2.5.2. PSUR cycle ..................................................................................................... 48 
2.6. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 48 
2.7. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 48 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 57 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 60 
5. EPAR changes ....................................................................................... 61 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 2/61 
 
 
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE adverse event 
ANCOVA analysis of covariance 
ALT alanine aminotransferase 
BH4 tetrahydrobiopterin (sapropterin) 
BMI body mass index 
DBP diastolic blood pressure 
ECG electrocardiogram 
e-CRF electronic case report form 
EMA European Medicines Agency 
EU European Union 
FDA Food and Drug Administration 
GCP Good Clinical Practice 
HDPE high density polyethylene 
HPA hyperphenylalaninemia 
IB investigator’s brochure 
ICH International Conference on Harmonisation 
IMP investigational medicinal product 
IRB institutional review board 
ITT intention-to-treat 
MedDRA Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
NONMEM nonlinear mixed effects modeling 
PAH phenylalanine hydroxylase 
PDE-5 phosphodiesterase type 5 
PGx pharmacogenetics 
Phe Phenylalanine 
PK pharmacokinetic(s) 
PKU phenylketonuria 
PI principal investigator 
PopPK population pharmacokinetics 
PP per protocol 
PT preferred term 
SAE serious adverse event 
SBP systolic blood pressure 
SD standard deviation 
SDS standard deviation score 
SmPC summary of product characteristics 
SOC system organ class 
TEAE treatment-emergent adverse event 
Tyr tyrosine 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 3/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Merck Serono Europe Limited 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 2 September 2014 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Centrally authorised Medicinal product(s): 
International non-proprietary name 
For presentations: See Annex A 
Kuvan 
SAPROPTERIN 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
The Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) applied for an extension of indication for the 'treatment of 
hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults and paediatric patients of 4 years of age and over with 
phenylketonuria (PKU) who have shown to be responsive to such treatment' to include the paediatric 
population under 4 years old. Consequently, the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 
and 5.2 of the SmPC.   
The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
Kuvan, was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/04/199 on 8 June 2004. Kuvan was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: Treatment of 
hyperphenylalaninemia.  
The new indication, which is the subject of this application, falls within the above mentioned orphan 
designation.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0232/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0232/2013 was completed. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP P/0232/2013. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 4/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Patrick Salmon   
Co-Rapporteur:  
Daniel Brasseur 
Timetable 
Submission date 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP CoRapp AR 
CHMP comments 
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP comments 
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP comments 
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
Opinion 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Actual dates 
02 September 2014 
28 November 2014 
21 January 2015 
23 January 2015 
30 January 2015 
20 February 2015 
26 February 2015 
07 April 2015 
15 April 2015 
17 April 2015 
23 April 2015 
07 May 2015 
n/a 
18 May 2015 
21 May 2015 
Tetrahydrobiopterin  (6R-BH4)  is  the  naturally  occurring  pteridine,  (6R)-2-amino-6-[(1R,2S)-1,2-
dihydroxypropyl]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4(1H)-pteridinone, 
that 
is  only  biochemically  active 
in 
the 
enantiomeric R form. 6R-BH4 is an endogenous cofactor for a variety of enzymes, including phenylalanine 
hydroxylase (PAH). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 5/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride, a synthetic version of 6R-BH4, the naturally occurring cofactor, is authorized 
as  an  oral  treatment  for  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  patients  with  phenylketonuria  (PKU)  or  BH4 
deficiency. In patients with PKU, sapropterin dihydrochloride has been shown to enable endogenous PAH 
activity  and  to  partially  restore  oxidative  metabolism  of  phenylalanine,  resulting  in  decreased  blood 
phenylalanine levels in PKU patients. In patients with BH4 deficiency, sapropterin dihydrochloride restores 
endogenous PAH activity by providing an exogenous source of the missing cofactor 
Kuvan 100 mg soluble tablets (sapropterin dihydrochloride) is authorized (since 2 December 2008) in the 
European Union (EU) for the following indications: 
•  Kuvan  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  adults  and  pediatric 
patients  of  4  years  of  age  and  over  with  phenylketonuria  (PKU)  who  have  been  shown  to  be 
responsive to such treatment. 
•  Kuvan is also indicated for the treatment of HPA in adults and pediatric patients of all ages with 
tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency, who have been shown to be responsive to such treatment. 
As  per  follow-up  measure  FUM005,  requested  by  CHMP/EMA,  the  Marketing  Authorization  Holder  (MAH) 
has conducted a Phase lllb study to expand the age range by evaluating the population pharmacokinetics 
(PopPK), efficacy, and safety of Kuvan in infants and children with PKU who are <4 years of age. 
This paediatric study is also part of the agreed Pediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) EMA 001476-PIP01-13, 
under article 8 of the Pediatric Regulation. 
Phase  IIIb,  Multicentre,  Open-Label,  Randomized,  Controlled  Study  (Trial  EMR700773-003)  of  the 
Efficacy,  Safety,  and  Population  Pharmacokinetics  of  Sapropterin  Dihydrochloride  (Kuvan) 
in 
Phenylketonuria (PKU) Patients < 4 Years Old) was conducted in line with the agreed study protocol.  The 
proposed extension of the indication is based on the results of Trial EMR-700773-003 (e.g26-week Study 
Period of this study) and also on further supportive data. 
2.2 Quality aspects 
As part of the extension variation, the MAH has updated the pharmaceutical development section of the 
dossier with regards to the paediatric use. 
The updated section includes tables for dosing information for children of body weight of up to 20 kg. No 
changes are proposed for adults and children over 20 kg of body weight.  
Tablets are to be dissolved in water (1 tablet/20 ml of water which gives a concentration of 5 mg/ml of 
sapropterin  dihydrochloride)  and  administrated  either  as  10  mg/kg  (recommended  starting  dose)  or  20 
mg/kg (if dose adjustment is needed). According to the tables, volumes to be administered range from 4 
ml (BW of 2 kg and MDD of 10 mg/kg BW) up to 80 ml (BW of 20 kg and MDD of 20 mg/kg BW), all in a 
concentration of 5 mg/ml of water.  
Compatibility  studies  with  water  and  apple  juice  were  previously  submitted  and  approved.  Related 
substances investigated were within the approved limits. However, it is noted that the studies were done 
after  15  and 30  minutes. The  SmPC  and  PL  reflect  this,  i.e.  “the  product  is to  be taken  within  15  to  20 
minutes of its preparation”. The only recommended diluent is water, apple juice has been omitted. CHMP 
agreed with this due to the fact that syringes are likely to be used and therefore use of apple juice may 
cause difficulties (density of both is generally the same, however apple juice density depends of a type of 
juice used). 
CHMP  raised  concerns  regarding  proposed  dosing  and  administration  instructions,  which  were  resolved 
during  the  procedure.  The  dosing  instructions  were  developed  to  ensure  accurate  and  safe  dosing  in 
children up to 20 kg based on their body weight covering an administration volume from 3 ml up to 80 
ml. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 6/61 
 
 
  
 
The MAH has also agreed to supply oral medicine administration devices, namely 
• 
• 
For dissolution: Commercially available a CE-marked medicine administration cup with measuring 
function (graduations at 20, 40, 60 and 80 ml, etc.) to dissolve 1-4 tablets, respectively. 
For  administration:  Commercially  available  a  CE-marked  20  ml  oral  dosing  syringe  with 
measuring  function  (1  ml divisions)  to  allow  adequate  and  safe  dosing  over the  full  dose  range. 
The  syringe  allows  drawing  up  volumes  for  administration  between  3  ml  and  80  ml  (volumes 
above 20 ml can be achieved by repeated use). The repeated use of the 20 ml syringe with 1 ml 
divisions also allows to accurately measuring larger volumes (e.g. 56 ml) which would not be the 
case  with  bigger  syringes  that  do  not  have  appropriate  graduations.  The  20  ml  syringes  were 
successfully used in the performed SPARK study (pharmaceutical development). In addition, MAH 
has added a 10 ml measuring syringe for administration of less than 10 ml as requested in view 
of  dosing  accuracy  and  reduction  of  the  risk  for  medication  (overdosing)  errors.  The  SPC  and 
educational material has been updated correctly. 
The  applicant  has  proposed  not  to  supply  the  administration  devices  described  above  with  the  product, 
but  to  supply  them  separately  directly  to  the  specialized  paediatric  centres  for  inborn  errors  of 
metabolism  together  with  the  educational  materials  on  the  dosing  instructions.  This  is  acceptable 
considering that both PKU and BH4 deficiency are orphan diseases, that total number of patients below 4 
years of age that may be treated with Kuvan is estimated to be less than 300 in the whole of EU and that 
patients  are  treated  almost  exclusively  by  a  few  specialized  paediatric  centres  for  inborn  errors  of 
metabolism in each country. It is also noted that the same syringes were used in the SPARK study.  
In section 4.2 under heading “Paediatric population” the MAH has divided instructions for children above 
20  kg  and  up  to  20  kg  body  weight.  For  children  above  20  kg  body  weight  the  instruction  for  use  are 
straight forward. (The prescribed number of tablets should be placed in a glass or cup with up to 120 ml 
of  water  and  stirred  until  dissolved).  Dosing  for  children  up  to  20  kg  body  weight  is  calculated  in 
mg/kg/day  and  calculation  is  presented  in  four  tables.  The  important  update  to  this  section  refers  to 
actual instruction how to prepare the solution:  
“The prescribed number of tablets for a 2,5, 10 and 20 mg/kg/day dose should be placed in a medicine 
cup (that shows the appropriate graduation markings at 20, 40, 60 and 80 ml) with the amount of water 
as depicted in Tables 1-4 and stirred until dissolved. 
If  according  to  the  prescribed  daily  dose  a  portion  of  this  solution  needs  to  be  administered,  an  oral 
dosing  syringe  (20  ml)  should  be  used  to  withdraw  the  volume  of  solution  to  be  administered  from  the 
medicine cup and transferred to a glass or a cup for administration of the medicine. For small infants who 
cannot  drink  from  a  glass  or  a  cup  the  solution  corresponding  to  the  prescribed  daily  dose  may  be 
administered into the mouth via the oral dosing syringe.” 
Furthermore  instructions  to  use  the  solution  within  20  minutes  and  how  to  clean  the  syringe  are  given. 
The package leaflet has been updated accordingly and instructions are given in patient-friendly terms.  
Hence,  the  MAH  has  successfully  addressed  the  issue  and  the  proposed  supply  of  the  administration 
devices and the updated instructions are accepted. 
The  MAH  has  updated  Module  3  to  include  the  devices  (cup  and  syringes).  The  MAH  has  included  the 
information in 3.2.R.3 (Medical Devices) instead of section P.7. This is acceptable because the devices are 
not supplied with the product.  
Composition,  dimension,  graduation  and  drawing  of  the  measuring  cup  and  syringes  are  included. 
Declarations  of  CE  confirmation  are  included  –  for  the  measuring  cup  by  Laboratoire  national  de 
metrologie et d’essays, France and for the syringes Description is submitted by the supplier B. Braun 
(self-certification); TUV SUD Product Service GmbH Identification number 0123. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 7/61 
 
 
  
 
The  MAH  clarified  that  disintegration  of  the  tablets  depends  of  amount  of  water  used,  i.e. 
disintegration  time  is  prolonged  to  up  to  7  minutes  only  if  small  volumes  (5  to  10  ml)  of  water  are 
used to dissolve 1 tablet. If 20 ml or larger volumes of water are used to dissolve 1 tablet the time 
for  disintegration  is  up  to  5  minutes,  in  compliance  with  the  disintegration  specification.  Hence,  the 
current wording “It may take a few minutes for the tablets to dissolve” in SPC and PL is accepted. 
The  applicant  has  updated  the  product  information  to  instruct  caregivers  to  throw  away  any 
remaining  solution,  since  only  a  part  of  the  solution  obtained  when  dissolving  the  tablets  will  be 
administered to children below the age of 4. 
The MAH has submitted educational materials on dosing instructions for children up to 20 kg. These will 
only  be  provided  to  specialized  paediatric  centres  for  inborn  errors  of  metabolism  as  paediatric 
endocrinologists  are  the  prescribers  of  Kuvan  to  children  under  the  age  of  4.  It  includes  “Important 
Dosing  Instructions  and  information”  for  the  physicians  and  for  the  patients  (notepad  dosing  instruction 
form – to be filled in by the physician). 
The  MAH  justified  that  the  developed  soluble  Kuvan  tablet  is  appropriate  for  paediatric  dosing  and  that 
the  revised  instructions  provide  clear  guidance  to  healthcare  professionals,  caregivers  and  patients  for 
administration.  The  MAH  states  that  oral  solution  could  not  be  developed  due  to  stability  issues  of  the 
active substance and this is evident from the in-use shelf life presented. On the other hand development 
of  powder 
form 
(powder 
for  oral  solution)  would  not 
lead 
to  any  simpler  way  of 
instructions/administration as outlined in the MAH’s response. 
The  MAH  has  adequately addressed  the issue  of  possible  loss  of  volume  / dosing  errors.  Introduction of 
10 ml syringe further reduce possibility of dosing errors. 
The  MAH  has  specified  how  the  devices  are  supplied  in  section  4.2 of  the  SPC  (“devices  are  supplied to 
the specialized paediatric centres for inborn errors of metabolism to be provided to the caregivers of the 
patients”).  The  applicant  has  also  updated  the  PL  specifying  that  caregivers  can  contact  the  local 
representative of the MAH for any information about the medicine. 
Finally,  The  MAH  has  updated  section  6.6  of  the  SmPC  to  include  cross  reference  to  section  4.2  for 
instructions for use. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No  new  clinical  data  have  been  submitted  in  this  application,  which  was  considered  acceptable  by  the 
CHMP. 
The  product  is  already  approved  for  the  treatment  of  paediatric  patients  of  all  ages  with 
tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 8/61 
 
 
  
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  data  provided  as  a  part  of  this  variation  is  based  on  population  PK(PopPK) 
results from Trial EMR700773-003 in subjects 0 to 4 years of age. The PK results for Biomarin-sponsored 
Trial PKU-015 have been also provided as supportive information. 
Study  EMR700773-003  -  Phase  IIIb,  Multicenter,  Open-Label,  Randomized,  Controlled  Study 
(of  the  Efficacy,  Safety,  and  Population  Pharmacokinetics  of  Sapropterin  Dihydrochloride 
(Kuvan) in Phenylketonuria (PKU) Patients < 4 Years Old)  
Methods 
The  population  PK  analysis  was  performed  as  a  part  of  EMR700773-003  study  (for  more  information  on 
the design of this study not related to PK analysis please refer to the efficacy section of this AR). 
The objectives of the population PK analysis were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To  develop  a  population  pharmacokinetic  model 
for  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Sapropterin 
Dihydrochloride  (Kuvan,  tetrahydrobiopterin,  6R-BH4) 
in 
infants  and  young  children  with 
Phenylketonuria. 
To identify and characterize patient factors which influence the variability in the pharmacokinetics of 
BH4. 
To estimate the magnitude of unexplained variability in BH4 pharmacokinetics. 
To evaluate the model performance of the pharmacokinetic model developed for BH4. 
In the EMR700773-003 study, for the population PK evaluation, blood levels of BH4 (tetrahydrobiopterin; 
sapropterin) were evaluated via scheduled PopPK samplings (Baseline on Day 1 and during Weeks 5-12 of 
the Study Period).  
All enrolled subjects with at least one adequately documented BH4 concentration value and dose record 
were  included  in  the  population  PK  analysis.  The  data  were  analysed  for  the  following  age  groups:  Age 
Group 1- < 12 months, Age Group 2 - aged 12-24 months and Age Group 3- aged 24-48 months. 
The following PK parameters were estimated for BH4: 
•  CL/F (apparent clearance) with associated inter-individual variability. 
•  V/F  (apparent  volume  of  distribution  of  central  compartment)  with  associated  inter-individual 
variability. 
•  Ka (absorption rate constant) 
•  Baseline (C0) endogenous concentrations of BH4 with associated inter-individual variability. 
In addition derived parameters including t1/2, and AUC were calculated. 
A  comparison  of  exposure  between  paediatric  subjects  and  adult  patients  was  conducted  based  on  AUC 
computed from individual estimates of post hoc CL/F and Dose (for paediatrics) and literature results for 
adults. 
Analytical Methods 
Samples  were  assayed 
for  L-biopterin  by  a  validated  analytical 
liquid  chromatography/mass 
spectrometry/mass  spectrometry  (LC/MS/MS)  method  with  a  lower  limit  of  quantitation  (LLOQ)  of  5 
ng/mL and the nominal conversion ratio of BH4to L-biopterin was determined to be 47.3% up to week 8. 
CHMP’s comment 
The  bioanalytical  sample  analysis  report  has  been  provided.  Overall,  the  sample  analysis  appears 
acceptable. Results 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 9/61 
 
 
  
 
Study population  
The  final  pharmacokinetic  database  consisted  of  138  observations  for  52  subjects  from  a  total  of  56 
subjects enrolled in Trial EMR700773-003 aged 1 to 48 months (4 years) of age (see also Table 1) 
Table 1. Summary of Discrete Baseline Demographics of subjects included in the PK analysis  
CHMP’s comment: 
The MAH was requested to provide a participant flow chart in order to clarify the disposition of subjects 
included in the PK analysis. 
As  required  by  the  study  protocol  all  randomized  patients  with  at  least  one  PK  sample  were  included  in 
the popPK analysis population. 
Model development  
Initial  graphical  evaluation  of  data  from  Study  EMR700773-003  together  with  preliminary  model  based 
evaluations  showed  that  the  data  were  adequately  described  using  a  one  compartment  model  with  a 
parameter for endogenous BH4. 
Base Model 
The structural model to describe the pharmacokinetics of Kuvan was a 1-compartment model with a first 
order  input  and  first  order  elimination.  This  model  (Model  4)  was  parameterized  in  terms  of  apparent 
clearance  (CL/F),  the  volume  of  distribution  (V/F),  an  absorption  rate  constant  (Ka),  an  absorption  lag 
(Lag), and baseline endogenous concentration (C0). The residual error model was a constant coefficient 
of  variation  (CCV)  model  (additive  on  the  log  scale).  Inter-individual  variability  was  described  for  CL/F 
and V/F with a term describing the correlation between CL/F and V/F. 
Final Model 
The best pharmacokinetic model identified in the study was a one compartment model with a first order 
input  following  a  lag  and  first  order  elimination  and  a  factor  describing  the  endogenous  (baseline,  C0) 
BH4  levels.  The  model  included  a  term  describing  correlation  between  clearance  (CL/F),  and  volume  of 
distribution  (V/F).  The  model  utilized  a  constant  coefficient  of  variation  model  to  describe  residual  error 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 10/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
(additive  in  the  log  domain).  The  only  covariate  included  in  the  model  was  total  body  weight  (WT)  on 
both CL/F and V/F, parameterized using an allometric function with estimated coefficients.  
An informative prior (pooled data from PKU-004and PKU-015 study) was used to support the model. 
The final parameter estimates for the model are presented in the table below. 
Table 2. Parameter Estimates and Associated Standard Errors for Final Model 
Evaluation of the population mean value of  half-life suggests a terminal half-life of 0.96 hours, whereas 
the  absorption  half-life  (calculated  as  0.693/Ka)  is  2.96  hours  suggesting  flip-flop  pharmacokinetic 
behaviour where absorption becomes the rate-limiting metric of exposure. Given the absorption half- life 
together with the elimination half-life, once daily dosing is justified. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The best pharmacokinetic model identified in the study was a one compartment model with a first order 
input  following  a  lag  and  first  order  elimination  and  a  factor  describing  the  endogenous  (baseline,  C0) 
BH4  levels.  The  only  covariate  included  in  the  model  was  total  body  weight  on  both  CL/F  and  V/F 
parameterised using a power function with estimated coefficients. 
Evaluation of the population mean value of  half-life suggests a terminal half-life of 0.96 hours, whereas 
the absorption half-life (calculated as 0.693/Ka) is 2.96 hours.  
Model Qualification  
The final model was evaluated using multiple methods including non-parametric bootstrapping and visual 
predictive  checks  (Table  3  and  Figure  1).  All  evaluations  suggested the  model  adequately  described the 
data. 
The  95%  confidence  intervals  obtained  from  the  nonparametric  age  stratified  bootstrap  evaluation  are 
given in Table 3. The median bootstrap values are in good agreement with the original estimated values. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 11/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 3. Bootstrapped 95% Confidence Intervals for Final Covariate Model Parameters 
Figure 1.Visual Predictive Check of Final Model – All Data 
Clinical Significance of Identified Covariates 
To assess the clinical significance of the effect of weight, the final population model was used to calculate 
pharmacokinetic  parameter  values  for  subjects  that  are  representative  of  the  extremes  of  covariate 
influences within this study population. The effect of weight was substantial and dose adjustments based 
on weight are appropriate. At the extremes of weight in this database, a 5 kg subject had a clearance or 
volume  value  approximately  10%  and  22%  of  the  reference  70  kg  subject;  a  19  kg  subject  had  a 
clearance or volume of approximately 33.5% and 47.4%, respectively (see Table 4) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 12/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Effect of Weight on Clearance and Volume of Distribution 
It  can  be  seen  that  both  CL/F  and  V/F  increase  in  a  nonlinear  manner  with  increasing  weight,  although 
individual predictions still vary around the typical individual predictions. 
Figure 2. Relationship Between Weight and Clearance 
Figure 3 .Relationship Between Weight and Volume of Distribution 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 13/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simulated concentration time profiles following 10 mg/kg dosing for a range of weights is shown in Figure 
4 
As  can  be  seen  in  this  figure,  concentrations  remain  above  the  endogenous  level  for  the  dose  interval, 
substantiating the use of a once daily dose regimen even in young paediatric subjects. 
Figure 4. Simulated Concentration Time Profiles Following Once Daily Dosing of 10 mg/kg 
Comparison  of  individual  estimated  BH4  exposure  (AUCss)  based  on  administered  dose  and  individual 
clearance estimates for each age group in the study is shown in Figure 5 
Figure 5.  Comparison of BH4 Exposure Following 10 mg/kgby Age Group 
Overall the exposure across all age groups was comparable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 14/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For  purposes  of  comparison,  adult  BH4  AUCss  were  simulated  following  a  daily  dose  of  10  using  a 
previously developed model. 
The exposure in paediatric patients was lower than the expected exposure in adults based on simulations 
for a 10 mg/kg daily dose (see Table 5).  
Table 5. Summary Statistics for Derived AUC by Age Group 
Peak  drug  concentration  (Cmax)  could  not  be  determined  as  the  shrinkage  on  V/F  was  high  and  there 
were no terms for inter-individual variability on Ka, making parameters used to calculate Cmax unlikely to 
reflect individual values. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The  provided  data  indicated  that  body  weight  is  the  only  covariate  substantially  affecting  clearance  or 
volume of distribution which supports a weight based dosing regimen. 
It  is  noted  the  AUCss  values  for  all  paediatric  age  groups  are  generally  lower  than  the  expected  adult 
exposures  following  a  10  mg/kg  daily  dose.  However,  the  exposure  across  age  groups  is  regarded  as 
comparable  but  most  importantly  no  significant  differences  in  relation  to  the  efficacy  and  safety  were 
noted between different age groups.  
Supportive study 
Trial PKU-015- A Phase 3b Open-Label Study to Evaluate the Effect of Kuvan on Neurocognitive 
Function,  Maintenance  of  Blood  Phenylalanine  Concentrations,  Safety,  and  Population 
Pharmacokinetics in Young Children with Phenylketonuria 
Trial  PKU-015  consisted  of  the  Pharmacokinetics  Sub-study  (discussed  below)  and  6-Month 
Safety/Efficacy Sub-study (discussed in the efficacy section of this AR). 
Methods 
The primary objective of the Pharmacokinetics Sub-study was to evaluate the population PK of Kuvan in 
young children with PKU who were newborn to 6 years old at study entry. 
Subjects enrolled in Part 1 of PKU-015 study were eligible to participate in the Population PK sub-study. 
All subjects received 20 mg/kg/day Kuvan for 4 weeks at the same time of day with a meal. Study visits 
were weekly (±2 days). 
In the study blood levels of Kuvan were evaluated via scheduled samplings. 
The  following  PK  parameters  were  estimated  for  each  subject:  half-life  (t½),  area  under  the  time 
concentration  curve  (AUC),  absorption  rate  absorption  lag  time  (ALAG),  absorption  rate  constant  (Ka), 
apparent volume of distribution (V/F), and apparent clearance (CL/F). 
Data used in the population analysis included all available concentration data collected in PKU-015 study 
as well as the concentration data obtained in Trials PKU-004. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 15/61 
 
 
  
 
 
(Trial  PKU-004  -  A  Phase  3,  Multicentre,  Open-  Label  Extension  Study  of  Phenoptin  in  Subjects  with 
Phenylketonuria Who Have Elevated Phenylalanine Levels). 
Results 
Study population  
Among the 95 subjects enrolled in Part 1 of PKU-015 study, one declined participation in the Population 
PK sub-study. 
Of  the  94  subjects  in  the Population  PK  substudy  intent-to-treat  population,  93  completed  the  substudy 
and one subject was excluded because no post dose blood sample was collected. Of these 93 subjects, 80 
were included in the population PK analysis (13 blood samples were not analysed in a timely manner and 
were therefore were excluded from the population PK analysis) (see Table 6). 
The PKU-004 population PK substudy contained 76 subjects aged 9 to 50 years old  
Table 6. Demographics, by Study (Population PK Substudy) 
Final database used for model building and evaluation consisted of 475 observations from 156 subjects.  
Final Model 
The final PK model was a one-compartment model with first-order input following an absorption lag time 
and first-order elimination. Model parameters included CL/F, V/F, first order Ka, ALAG, and C0. Effects of 
weight  on  clearance  and  volume  of  distribution  were  described  using  a  power  function.  No  other 
covariates predicted PK variability. The residual error model was a constant coefficient of variation model 
(additive in the log domain) with separate terms for each study. Inter-individual variability was described 
for CL/F, V/F and C0 with terms describing the correlation between CL/F and V/F. The FOCE method was 
used with LTBS. 
Effects  of  weight  on  Kuvan  clearance  and  volume  of  distribution  were  substantial  but  Kuvan 
concentrations remained above the endogenous level for a wide range of body weights, substantiating a 
once-daily dose regimen even for this subpopulation. 
Population mean terminal half-life was 0.78 hours and mean absorption half-life (calculated as 0.693/Ka) 
was 2.95 hours 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 16/61 
 
 
  
 
 
After accounting for endogenous baseline Kuvan concentration and using recommended dosing, exposure 
across  age  groups  was  comparable  with  a  slight  trend  toward  higher  exposure  as  age  decreased  (see 
Figure 6). 
Figure 6.  Kuvan Exposure, by Age Group (20 mg/kg Once Daily) (Population PK Substudy) 
CHMP’s comment 
In PKU-015 there was a slight trend toward higher exposure as age decreases (see Figure 6). 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  data  provided  as  a  part  of  this  variation  are  based  on  the  population  PK 
(PopPK) results from EMR700773-003 Trial in subjects 0 to 4 years of age. The PK results for Biomarin-
sponsored Trial PKU-015 are also provided as supportive information. 
The  main  objectives  of  the  PK  analysis  in  EMR700773-003  study  were  to  develop  a  population 
pharmacokinetic model for the pharmacokinetics of Kuvan in infants and young children with PKU and to 
identify  and  characterize  factors  which  influence  the  variability  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride. Performance of the pharmacokinetic model was also evaluated. 
In the study blood levels of Kuvan were evaluated via scheduled PopPK samplings. 
The best pharmacokinetic model identified in the study was a one compartment model with a first order 
input  following  a  lag  and  first  order  elimination  and  a  factor  describing  the  endogenous  (baseline,  C0) 
BH4 levels. The model utilized a constant coefficient of variation model to describe residual error (additive 
in  the  log  domain).  The  only  covariate  included  in  the  model  was  total  body  weight  (WT)  on  both  CL/F 
and V/F, parameterized using an allometric function with estimated coefficients. 
Evaluation of the population mean value of half-life suggests a terminal half-life of 0.96 hours,  whereas 
the  absorption  half-life  (calculated  as  0.693/Ka)  is  2.96  hours.  The  exposure  in  paediatric  patients  was 
lower than the expected exposure in adults based on simulations for a 10 mg/kg daily dose. However, the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 17/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
exposure across age groups is regarded as comparable but most importantly no significant differences in 
relation to the efficacy and safety were noted between different age groups.  
Evaluation of the final pharmacokinetic model showed that the overall model performance was adequate.  
The PK results of PKU-015 study provided supportive information.  
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
The applicant submitted the following clinical study reports in support of their application:  
Main study: EMR700773-003 -  A Phase IIIb, Multicentre, Open-Label, Randomized, Controlled Study 
of  the  Efficacy,  Safety,  and  Population  Pharmacokinetics  of  Sapropterin  Dihydrochloride  (Kuvan)  in 
Phenylketonuria(PKU) Patients < 4 Years Old. 
Supportive  study:  PKU-015  -  A  Phase  3b  Open-Label  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Effect  of  Kuvan  on 
Neurocognitive  Function,  Maintenance  of  Blood  Phenylalanine  Concentrations,  Safety,  and  Population 
Pharmacokinetics in Young Children with Phenylketonuria 
2.4.1.  Dose response studies 
No additional dose finding study reports were submitted with this variation application. The study protocol 
provides  the  rationale  for  the  choice  of  dose  used  in  the  main  trial.  It  refers  to  the  previous  studies 
conducted in adults and children ≥ 4 years of age. 
CHMP’s comment 
The doses chosen seem appropriate. Patient dose in practice will be determined by a demonstration of a 
response to Kuvan and then on the basis of individual response. 
2.4.2.  Main study 
EMR700773-003 
The main study (EMR700773-003) was a Phase IIIb, Multicentre, Open-Label, Randomized, Controlled 
Study of the Efficacy, Safety, and Population Pharmacokinetics of Sapropterin Dihydrochloride (Kuvan) in 
Phenylketonuria (PKU) Patients < 4 Years Old. 
The  study  was  conducted  at  22  sites  in  9  countries  (Austria,  Belgium,  Czech  Republic,  Germany,  Italy, 
Netherlands, Slovakia, Turkey and UK). 
A brief summary of the trial is shown in Table 7. 
Table 7 . Summary of Study EMR700773-003 
No. of study sites 
22 
Design 
Posology 
Open-label, randomized, controlled study 
Starting Kuvan dose was to be 10 mg/kg per day. After  4 
weeks    of  treatment    the  dose  could    be  increased  to  20 
mg/kg per day, if necessary.  
Primary objective 
-  To  evaluate  the  efficacy  after  26  weeks  of  Kuvan 
treatment plus phenylalanine (Phe) restricted diet therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 18/61 
 
 
  
 
in  increasing  dietary  Phe  tolerance,  as  compared  to 
dietary therapy alone in < 4 year old infants and children 
with  PKU.  Phe  tolerance  was  defined  as  the  amount  of 
dietary  Phe  (mg/kg  per  day)  ingested  while  maintaining 
blood  Phe  levels  within  the  range  of  120  to  360  μmol/L 
(defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
-  To  evaluate  the  safety  after  26  weeks  of  Kuvan 
treatment in < 4 year old infants and children with PKU. 
-  To  evaluate  tetrahydrobiopterin  (BH4;  sapropterin) 
blood  levels  via  scheduled  population  pharmacokinetics 
(PopPK) samplings. 
Subjects by arm entered/completed 
27/25 subjects in the Kuvan plus Phe restricted diet group 
Duration 
Gender 
Median age 
Diagnosis 
and 29/26 subjects in the Phe restricted diet alone group. 
6 months treatment in Study Period plus 3-year Extension 
Period (ongoing) 
53.6% male, female 46.4% 
21 Months 
Confirmed clinical and biochemical PKU 
Primary endpoint 
The  primary  efficacy  measure  was  dietary  Phe  tolerance, 
which was defined as the daily amount of Phe (mg/kg per 
day)  ingested  while  maintaining  average blood  Phe levels 
within the selected therapeutic target range (defined as ≥ 
120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
Methods 
Study participants 
The trial enrolled male or female infants and young children < 4 years of age with confirmed clinical and 
biochemical  PKU,  and  who  had  previously  responded  to  a  BH4  test.  In  addition,  subjects  should  have 
been  on  established dietary  treatment  with  good  adherence  to  this treatment and  with  blood  Phe  levels 
maintained within the therapeutic target range of 120 to 360 μmol/L(defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L) 
over a 4-month period prior to Screening, as assessed by the Investigator.  
Subjects were excluded if they had previous diagnosis of BH4 deficiency. 
In  addition  subjects  receiving  Kuvan,  Biopten,  or  any  unregistered  preparation  of  tetrahydrobiopterin 
within the previous 30 days (unless for the purposes of a BH4 responsiveness test) were excluded from 
the study. 
Subjects  receiving  the  following  concomitant  medications  were  excluded:  levodopa,  methotrexate, 
trimethoprim, or other dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors and other medications that are known to affect 
nitric oxide synthesis, metabolism or action. 
Seizure  disorders,  corticosteroid  administration,  active  malignancy,  diabetes  mellitus,  severe  congenital 
heart disease, renal or hepatic failure and history of organ transplantation were also the exclusion criteria 
in the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 19/61 
 
 
  
 
CHMP’s comment 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable. 
Study Plan 
Subjects underwent a Screening period followed by a 26 week Study period which was in turn followed by 
an Extension period (See Figure 7). 
Figure 7.- Study plan 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 20/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
At  the  start  of  the  Study  Period,  subjects  were  randomized 1:1  to  receive  Kuvan  treatment  plus  a  Phe-
restricted diet or just aPhe-restricted diet.  
For those subjects randomized to the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group, the starting Kuvan dose was 
10 mg/kg per day. If after approximately 4 weeks a subject’s Phe tolerance was not increased by at least 
20%  versus  baseline,  then  the  Kuvan  dose  could  have  been  increased  to  20  mg/kg  per  day  in  a  single 
step. 
During  the  Extension  Period  subjects  originally  randomized  to  Kuvan  treatment  plus  Phe-restricted  diet 
were to receive the same dose as they received at the conclusion of the Study Period. Subjects originally 
randomized to the Phe-restricted diet-only, the starting dose of 10 mg/kg per day were prescribed.  
Dose adjustments were possible during the Extension Period but it could not exceed 20 mg/kg per day. 
Calculation of the Kuvan Dose 
For subjects up to 20 kg, the total dose of Kuvan was calculated by multiplying each subject's total body 
weight (in kg) by the prescribed dose: either 10 or 20 mg/kg per day. This dose was divided by 100 and 
rounded up to give the number of tablets to be dissolved into specific volumes of water (20 to 80 mL). An 
accurate measuring device was used for administration of the appropriate volume of solution. 
For  children  over  20  kg,  Kuvan  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  was  to  be  followed.  The 
prescribed dose of Kuvan was calculated by multiplying each subject's total body weight (in kilograms) by 
the prescribed dose and then rounding to the nearest 100 mg unit, which when divided by 100 gave the 
number of tablets to be administered per daily dose. 
Kuvan tablets were dissolved in water and given to the child during breakfast. 
Prohibited medications 
No  formal  interaction  studies  with  Kuvan  and  other  drugs/agents  have  been  performed.  Although 
concomitant  administration  of  inhibitors  of  dihydrofolate  reductase  (e.g.,  methotrexate,  trimethoprim) 
has  not  been  studied,  such  medicinal  products  may  interfere  with  BH4  metabolism,  and  caution  was 
recommended when using such agents while taking Kuvan. 
Caution was  also recommended during concomitant use of Kuvan with all agents that cause vasodilation, 
including  those  administered  topically,  by  affecting  nitric  oxide  metabolism  or  action,  including  classical 
NO  donors  (e.g.,  glyceryl 
trinitrate, 
isosorbide  dinitrate,  sodium  nitroprusside,  molsidomin, 
phosphodiesterase type 5 [PDE-5] inhibitors, and minoxidil).Subjects  receiving treatment with levodopa 
were excluded from the study.  
CHMP’s comment 
The list of prohibited medications is acceptable as it is in line with the SmPC. 
Objectives 
The study had three primary objectives. 
The  first  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  after  26  weeks  of  Kuvan  treatment  plus 
phenylalanine (Phe)-restricted diet therapy in increasing dietary Phe tolerance, as compared to dietary 
therapy alone in < 4 year-old infants and children with PKU.  
Phe  tolerance  was  defined  as  the  amount  of  dietary  Phe  (mg/kg  per  day)  ingested  while  maintaining 
blood Phe levels within the range of 120 to 360 μmol/L (defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 21/61 
 
 
  
 
The second and third primary objectives were to evaluate the safety after 26 weeks of Kuvan treatment 
in  <  4  year-old  infants  and  children  with  PKU  and  to  evaluate  tetrahydrobiopterin  (BH4;  sapropterin) 
blood levels via scheduled population pharmacokinetics (PopPK) samplings. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The primary objectives are appropriate. 
The  therapeutic  target  for  Phe  levels  selected  for  the  study  (e.g  120  to  360  μmol/L)  was  appropriate. 
Current  management  guidelines  for  HPA  due to  PKU  do  not  aim  at  normalisation  of  blood phenylalanine 
levels.  The  goal  is  reduction  of  blood  phenylalanine  levels  into  selected  therapeutic  ranges.  A  usual 
therapeutic target for children with PKU< 4 years of age is to maintain blood Phe level within the range of  
120 to 360 μmol/L.  
The normal level of blood phenylalanine in individuals without PKU is approximately 60 µmol/L (1 mg/dL) 
and  varies  inversely  with  age.  Please  see  below  the  reference  for  ranges  listed  by  Mayo  Medical 
Laboratories: 
Table 8.  Blood Phenylalanine Reference Range by Mayo Medical Laboratories* 
Age 
Premature  0 
to 
1 
1 
to 
24 
2 
to 
18 
Adult 
month 
months 
years 
Blood 
98-213 
38-137 
31-75 
26-91 
35-85 
Phenylalanine 
(µmol/L) 
*Phenylalanine and Tyrosine, Plasma 2007i 
In the study, there were a number of secondary objectives such as: 
1.  To evaluate blood Phe levels for all subjects during the 26-week Study Period. 
2.  To  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  Kuvan  treatment  in  increasing  dietary  Phe  tolerance,  as 
compared with pre-Kuvan treatment during the 26-week Study Period in < 4 year-old infants and 
children with PKU. 
3.  To  assess  neurodevelopmental  function  during  Kuvan  treatment,  as  compared  with  dietary 
treatment alone, during the 26-week Study Period in < 4 year-old infants and children with PKU. 
4.  To  assess  potential  effects  on  blood  pressure  during  the  26-week  Study  Period  and  the  3-year 
Extension Period. 
5.  To assess potential effects on growth during the 26-week Study Period and the 3-year Extension 
Period. 
6.  To  evaluate  long-term  safety,  neurodevelopmental  outcomes,  dietary  Phe  tolerance,  and  blood 
Phe levels in the 3-year Extension Period. 
7.  To  investigate  the  predictive  value  of  the  phenylalanine  hydroxylase  (PAH)  genotype  in  BH4 
responsive individuals. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  measure  of  this  trial  was  dietary  Phe  tolerance,  which  was  defined  as  the  daily 
amount of Phe (mg/kg per day) ingested while maintaining average blood Phe levels within the selected 
therapeutic target range (defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 22/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Specifically  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  defined  as  dietary  Phe  tolerance  based  on  the  prescribed 
amount of dietary Phe. Additionally, a supportive analysis was based on the Phe intake reported in the 3-
day Phe diet diary. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The primary efficacy endpoint was based on the prescribed amount of dietary Phe. Poor adherence to the 
prescription  could  have  influenced  the  results  of  the  study.  Therefore  in  the  study  a  diet  diary  was 
introduced  to  assess  adherence  to  the  Phe-restricted  diet.  In  addition  the  average  daily  Phe  intake  was 
calculated from the 3-day Phe diet diary.  
Dietary  Phe  adjustments  were  performed  with  a  goal  of  maintaining  blood  Phe  levels  within  that  the 
target range (120 to 360 μmol/L). 
During the 26-Week Study Period, adjustments to diet were made based on the mean Phe levels of the 
previous 2 weeks using the pre-specified adjustment criteria.  
The mean Phe level over the previous 2 weeks was calculated using 3 or 4 individual Phe measures (Phe 
levels were measured twice weekly during the 26-week Study Period) 
For subjects with the mean Phe level <300 μmol/L recommendation was to increase Phe dietary intake. 
For  subjects  with  the  mean  Phe  level  >300  μmol/L  no  changes  or  decrease  in  Phe  dietary  intake  was 
recommended.  
Phe intake adjustments during the Extension Period were followed the clinical practice standards of each 
participating centre. 
A diet diary was maintained by the parent(s)/guardian(s) during the trial to assess adherence to the Phe-
restricted diet. 
Compliance to Kuvan was assessed by the Investigator.  
CHMP’s comment: 
The primary efficacy endpoint is appropriate. 
CHMP  accepted  the  protocol  for  this  study  in  May  2012  including  the  selected  primary  endpoint.  Phe 
tolerance was also used as an endpoint in PKU-006 study (Part 2). 
Pharmacokinetics: 
Blood  levels  of  BH4  (tetrahydrobiopterin;  sapropterin)  were  evaluated  via  scheduled  PopPK  samplings. 
Data obtained from PopPK analyses were analysed using nonlinear mixed effects modelling (NONMEM®) 
and  related  software  (ICON  Development  Solutions,  Ellicott,  MD,  USA)  and  non-linear  mixed-effects 
models. Blood samplings for the PopPK study  were obtained on Day 1 of the  Study Period and between 
the  Week  5  and  Week  12  visits,  inclusive,  during  the  Study  Period.  Baseline  samples  (pre-Kuvan 
treatment) were obtained during the Study Period for measurement of endogenous BH4 (please refer to  
PK section  of this AR for more information regarding PK assessments). 
Other outcome measures: 
Neuromotor developmental milestones were assessed by standardized developmental milestones using a 
parent/guardian report form (the Denver Developmental Scale). 
Neurodevelopmental Status Assessment was performed using the standardized Bayley III Scales of Infant 
and  Toddler  Development  for  subjects  <  3.5  years  of  age  and  the  WPPSI-III  (Wechsler  Preschool  and 
Primary Scale of Intelligence) for subjects ≥ 3.5 and < 4 years old. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 23/61 
 
 
  
 
Growth  assessments  were  performed  by  monitoring  height  (or  length),  weight,  and  head  circumference 
during the trial. Assessments were performed at monthly intervals during first 6 months of the study and 
then every 3 months. Growth assessments were continued during the extension study.  
Physical  examination  including  vital  signs  were  performed  at  monthly  intervals  during  first  6  months  of 
the study and then less frequently. 
The safety profile of Kuvan was assessed throughout the trial (from screening (response test) through the 
final, scheduled, post-treatment visit) by recording, reporting, and analyzing baseline medical conditions 
and AEs, physical examination findings (including vital signs), and laboratory tests performed during and 
post-treatment. 
In the study, there were three predefined AEs of Special Interest for safety monitoring such as possible 
effects  on  oral  mucosa  and  dentition,  headache  and  associated  symptoms  and  gastrointestinal  adverse 
events. 
Phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) genotype data were collected at Screening for all subjects enrolled into 
this trial. 
Sample size 
The  calculation  of  sample  size  for  the  Study  Period  was  based  on  an  assumption  that  at  the  Week  26 
(Month 6) visit of the Study Period, the dietary Phe tolerance for the Kuvan-treated group would be 75% 
greater than the dietary Phe tolerance for the group treated with dietary therapy alone. It was estimated 
that  sample  size  of  23  subjects  per  group  would  yield  80%  power  for  testing  the  null  hypothesis.  To 
compensate  for  possible  dropouts  during  the  Study  Period,  25  subjects  per  each  of  the  two  treatment 
groups, were randomized to treatment. 
The  rationale  for  the  above  estimates  was  based  on  the  results  of  PKU-006  (Part  2)  study  which 
evaluated  the  effects  of  sapropterin  therapy  on  the  Phe  tolerance  in  children  4  to  12  years  of  age  who 
were  under  adequate  control  of  blood  Phe  levels.  In  that  trial,  there  was  a  103%  greater  the  Phe 
tolerance in the sapropterin group versus placebo.  
Randomisation 
The  subjects  who  qualified  for  entry  into  the  Study  Period  were  stratified  according  to  age  and  were 
randomized  1:1  to  receive  either:  (i)  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet,  or  (ii)  Phe-restricteddiet  alone. 
Stratification was as follows :< 12 months old; ≥ 12 months to < 24 months old; ≥ 24 months to < 48 
months  old.  The  minimum  and  maximum  of  subjects  in  each  stratum  were  pre-defined  in  the  study 
protocol. 
Blinding (masking) 
The trial was open-label in design, 
Statistical methods 
The  analysis  population  for  the  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  intention  to  treat  (ITT)  defined  as  all 
subjects randomised at the start of the Study Period. 
Efficacy  analyses  were  also  carried  out  on  the  per  protocol  population  defined  as  all  subjects  in  the  ITT 
population who had no major protocol violations. 
The  primary  efficacy  measure  (e.g  the  dietary  Phe  tolerance  (mg/kg  per  day))  was  described  using 
summary  statistics  at  each  visit  of  the  Study  Period,  according  to  treatment  group  (Kuvan  plus  Phe-
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 24/61 
 
 
  
 
restricted diet; Phe-restricted diet alone) and to age group (< 12 months; ≥ 12 months to < 24 months; 
≥ 24 months to < 48 months). 
The  dietary  Phe  tolerance  during  the  Study  Period  was  analyzed  using  a  repeated  measures  analysis  of 
covariance (ANCOVA) on the observed records applying direct likelihood method. 
The adjusted means and their 95% confidence interval were derived for each timepoint within each group 
of  treatment.  Additionally,  the  adjusted  treatment  difference  (Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  and  Phe-
restricted  diet  alone)  at  Week  26,  its  2-sided  95%  confidence  interval  and  the  associated  p-value  were 
derived. 
Supplementary analyses for the primary efficacy endpoint were conducted for the relevant sub-groups of 
the ITT population.  
Other Efficacy Analyses 
Blood Phe-levels, blood pressure, physical growth parameters and age-related neuromotor developmental 
milestones  and  standardized  neurodevelopment  tests  and  changes  of  these  tests  from  baseline  were 
described  using  summary  statistics,  according  to  the  treatment  group  and  age  group.  The  change  from 
baseline was analyzed using repeated measures ANCOVA to assess treatment effects. 
Change  from  baseline  (prior  to  enrolment)  in  dietary  Phe  tolerance  after  26  weeks  (6  months)  of 
treatment with Kuvan in the Study Period was described using summary statistics, according to treatment 
group and age group. A paired t-test was used to assess the difference in Phe tolerance. 
Safety Analyses  
Safety population consisted of all subjects who had some safety assessment data available in the Study 
Period and who received at least one dose of Kuvan in the Study Period, or who were randomized to Phe-
restricted  diet  alone.  The  descriptive  statistics  summarizing  these  data  were  presented  for  the  entire 
safety population and for each age group separately. 
Pharmacokinetic Analyses 
A PopPK analysis using the measured plasma concentrations of sapropterin was performed, applying the 
nonlinear mixed effects modeling (NONMEM) method. 
Demographic  (Body  weight,  Age,  Sex),  laboratory  (Phenylalanine  baseline  concentration),  and  exposure 
(Kuvan  dose)  parameters  were  tested  as  covariates  on  the  relevant  pharmacokinetic  parameters  with  a 
level of significance of 0.05. 
CHMP’s comment 
In  general,  the  statistical  methods  used  appear  to  be  appropriate.  Analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy 
variable in the ITT population is acceptable as it provides a more realistic assessment of efficacy. 
Results 
Participant flow 
The  investigators  screened  109  subjects  for  study  entry.  Of  these  subjects,  53  subjects  were  screening 
failures and 56 subjects were randomized to the study (27 subject in the  Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet  
arm and 29 subjects in the Phe-restricted diet alone arm) (see Table 9). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 25/61 
 
 
  
 
Table 9. Subject Disposition – All Subjects 
51 out of 56 subjects had completed the Study Period. 2 subjects were withdrawn from the study due to 
the  protocol  violation  (one  subject in  the  Kuvan  arm  and  one  subject in  the diet  alone  arm),  3  subjects 
were withdrawn due to withdrawal of consent (one subject in the Kuvan arm and two subjects in the diet 
alone arm) (see Table 10). 
CHMP’s comment: 
It is noted that 64 subjects underwent the BH4 response test during the Screening Period. In general in 
the  study  report  or  overview  there  is  not  much  discussion  about  responsiveness  to  BH4  treatment  (e.g 
response test) in children aged 0-4.  
However, the data from the SPARK study shows that the frequency of responsiveness to BH4 treatment 
does not differ to that in other age groups. 
Table 10. Status at the End of the Study Period 
CHMP’s comment: 
56 subjects were randomized and 56 subjects were included in the ITT population. 51 subjects completed 
the Study Period. 42 subjects were included in the PP population and 54 in the safety population.  
14 subjects with major protocol deviations (see below) were excluded from the PP population. 54 subjects 
were included in the safety population- reasons for excluding 2 subjects from the safety population is not 
entirely clear.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 26/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The MAH was requested to provide a participant flow chart. 
Two  (2)  of  the  29  patients  randomized  to  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  withdrew  consent  after 
randomization.  No  safety  assessments  were  performed  during  the  Study  Period  for  these  two  subjects; 
therefore, these 2 patients were excluded from the Safety Population. 
Also, Fifty-one (51) patients were included in the extension period: 
•  25 patients in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group, and 
•  26 patients in the Phe-restricted diet alone group. 
Recruitment 
First subject was screened 06 Jun 2011 
Last subject out on 06 Jan 2014 
The applicant states that the study was conducted in compliance with GCP standards as required by the 
Declaration of Helsinki, in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH), Note for 
Guidance on Good Clinical Practice (GCP) (ICH Topic E6, 1996) and applicable regulatory requirements. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 27/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol amendments 
There  was  one  amendment  specific  to  UK  only  and  four  other  amendments.  An  overview  of  the 
amendments to the trial is presented in Table 11 . 
Table 11. Overview of Substantial Protocol Amendments 
Protocol Deviations 
Overall,  a  total  of  14  subjects  (25.0%)  had  a  major  protocol  deviation  (14.8%  in  the  Kuvan  group  and 
34.5% in the diet alone group. In the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group this was due to non-adherence 
to inclusion or exclusion criteria (3.7%), Study Period not completed (7.4%) and lack of adherence to diet 
(7.4%). In the Phe-restricted diet alone group this was mainly due to lack of adherence to diet (24.1%) 
and also due to Study Period not completed (10.3%). 
Lack  of  adherence to diet was  defined  as intake  <  80%  of  prescribed  Phe  within  weeks  14  to  26  or  too 
much Phe. One subject (1340004) was excluded from the PP population due to dietary incompliance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 28/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP’s comment  
More  protocol  deviations  were  observed  in  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  (34.5%  versus  14.8%  in 
the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group). The lack of adherence to diet was the most common protocol 
deviation  and  it  was  observed  in  both  study  groups  (7.4%  in  the  Kuvan  group  and  24.1%  in  the  Phe-
restricted diet alone group). 
Baseline data 
Both treatment groups were balanced in all demographic characteristics. The overall mean ± SD age was 
21.2 ± 12.1 months (range 2 to 47 months) and the overall mean BMI was 16.5 ± 1.2 kg/m2 (range 14 
to  20  kg/m2).  The  majority  of  subjects  were  white  (96.4%).  There  were  slightly  more  males  (59.3%) 
than females (40.7%) in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group and 1 more female than males in the 
Phe-restricted diet alone group. Height (cm) and weight (kg) were also balanced across both groups. 
With regard to the medical history of PKU, the mean ± SD age at PKU diagnosis was 27.2 ± 79.8 days for 
subjects  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group  and  32.6  ±  72.2  days  for  subjects  in  the  Phe-
restricted diet alone group. The mean ± SD blood Phe level at diagnosis was 780.3 ± 480.7 μmol/L in the 
Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group and 879.9 ± 596.5 μmol/L inthe Phe-restricted diet alone group. 
CHMP’s comment 
In general groups were well balanced. Blood Phe levels at diagnosis were slightly higher in subjects in the 
Phe-restricted diet alone group compared to the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group. 
Numbers analysed 
56 subjects were randomized to the study (27 Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet and 29 Phe-restricted diet 
alone. 42 subjects were included in the PP population and 54 in the safety population (see Table 12). 
Table 12. - Numbers analysed 
CHMP’s comment: 
14 subjects with major protocol deviations were excluded from the PP population.  
Outcomes and estimation 
The  primary  endpoint  of  the  trial  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  after  26  weeks  of  Kuvan  treatment  plus 
Phe-restricted diet therapy in increasing dietary Phe tolerance, as compared to dietary Phe therapy alone. 
Phe  tolerance  was  defined  as  the  prescribed  amount  of  dietary  Phe  (mg/kg/day)  while  maintaining  the 
mean filter-paper blood Phe levels within the target ranges (≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
At  Week  26,  the  adjusted  mean  Phe  tolerance  was  higher  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group 
(80.6  mg/kg/day)  compared  with  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  (50.1  mg/kg/day).  The  adjusted 
difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  30.5  mg/kg/day  (95%  CI:  18.7;  42.3)  and  was 
statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 29/61 
 
 
  
 
 
The adjusted mean Phe tolerance over time is presented in Figure 8. The figure illustrates the significant 
increase over time in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group (from 37.1 mg/kg/day to 80.6 mg/kg/day) 
and  a  slight  increase  over  time  in  dietary  Phe  tolerance  in  the  Phe-restricted  diet  group  (from  35.8 
mg/kg/day to 50.1 mg/kg/day).  
Figure  8.  Adjusted  Means  and  95%  CI  in  Dietary  Phe  Tolerance  based  on  Prescribed  Phe 
(mg/kg/day) – ITT Population 
The  adjusted  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  PP  population  was  36.4  mg/kg/day  (95% 
CI: 25.4; 47.4) and was statistically significant (p < 0.001) which is consistent with the results from the 
ITT population.  
The  adjusted  means  from  a  repeated  measured  ANCOVA  and  their  95%  CI  were  derived  for  each  time 
point within each treatment group and are presented in Table 13 for the ITT population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 30/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 13. Adjusted Mean Treatment Difference at Week 26 in Dietary Phe Tolerance based on 
Prescribed Phe (mg/kg/day) – ITT Population 
CHMP’s comment: 
It  is  noted  that  54  subjects  from  the  ITT  population  (56  subjects)  were  included  in  the  analysis  of  the 
primary endpoint.  
Fifty-six (56) subjects were randomized into the trial: 
•  27 subjects in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group, and 
•  29 subjects in the Phe-restricted diet alone group. 
Two  (2)  of  the  29  subjects  in  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  withdrew  consent  just  after 
randomization and these two subjects were not included in the assessment of the primary endpoint as no 
efficacy assessments were available for them.  
In the study, a supportive analysis was based on the Phe intake reported in the 3-day Phe diet diary. For 
the  ITT  population,  at  Week  26,  the  adjusted  mean  Phe  tolerance  was  higher  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-
restricted  diet  group  (75.7  mg/kg/day)  compared  with  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  (42.0 
mg/kg/day).  The  adjusted  difference  between  the two  treatment groups  was  33.7  mg/kg/day  (95%  CI: 
21.4;  45.9)  and  was  statistically  significant  (p  <  0.001).  The  results  of  this  supportive  analysis  were 
consistent with the primary analysis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 31/61 
 
 
  
 
 
CHMP’s comment:  
A  significantly  higher  adjusted  mean  Phe  tolerance  was  observed  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet 
group  compared  with  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group  in  all  studied  populations  (for  ITT  and  PP 
population  and  when  analysis  was  based  on  the  Phe  intake  reported  in  the  3-day  Phe  diet  diary.  It  is 
noted  that  the  results  for  adjusted  difference  between  treatment  groups  were  similar  (e.g  30.5 
mg/kg/day(ITT), 36.4 mg/kg/day(PP population) and 33.7 mg/kg/day (3-day Phe diet diary). 
A sensitivity analysis was performed using a simpler statistical model.  
Adjusted treatment differences from an ANCOVA using Phe tolerance at Week 26, or the last observation 
available,  was  22.9  mg/kg/day  in  the  ITT  population  and  34.6  mg/kg/day  in  the  PP  population.    Both 
results were consistent with the primary analysis. 
In addition the proportion of subjects maintaining mean filter-paper Phe levels within the range ≥ 120 to 
< 360 μmol/L and ≤ 360 μmol/L throughout the Study Period were analysed. The proportion of subjects 
maintaining  blood  Phe  levels  in  this  range  was  greater  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group 
(33.3%) compared with subjects in the Phe-restricted diet alone group (10.3%). 
CHMP’s comment:  
It is noted that only 9 subjects (33.3%) in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group and 3 subjects in the 
the Phe-restricted diet alone group (10.3%) maintained the mean filter-paper Phe levels within the range 
≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L throughout the whole Study Period. Blood Phe fluctuations are regularly observed 
in PKU. Such fluctuations may be due to various factors, including dietary phenylalanine intake, intake of 
protein substitutes, changes in growth rate, and illness. 
However, fewer fluctuations were observed in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet in comparison to the Phe 
restricted diet alone group. 
Blood Phe Levels Over Time 
For the ITT population, at Week 26, there was a mean reduction of 10.1 μmol/L in blood Phe levels in the 
Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group compared with a mean increase of 23.1 μmol/L in the Phe-restricted 
diet alone group.  
The adjusted difference between the two treatment groups was 33.2 μmol/L (95% CI: -94.8, 28.4) and 
was  not  statistically  significant  (p  =  0.290).  Adjusted  Means  and  95%  CI  in  Change  from  Baseline  in 
Blood Phe Level (μmol/L) are graphically in Figure 9for the ITT population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 32/61 
 
 
  
 
Figure 9.  Adjusted Means and 95% CI in Change from Baseline in Blood Phe Level (μmol/L) – 
ITT Population 
CHMP’s comment:  
There  was  no  statistical  difference  in  the  adjusted  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in 
relation to changes (from Baseline) in the blood Ph level.    
It seems that at the beginning of study there was a significant reduction of Blood Phe Levels in the Kuvan 
plus Phe-restricted diet group. However in the later stages this difference was not significant.  
The  study  focused  on  improving  Phe  tolerance  while  maintaining  average  blood  Phe  levels  within  the 
selected therapeutic target range (defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
Change from Baseline in Dietary Phe Tolerance 
The  mean  change  from  baseline  to  Week  26  in  dietary  Phe  tolerance  (based  on  Prescribed  Phe)  the    in 
subjects  receiving  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  was  36.9  ±  27.3  (95%  CI:  26.1,  47.7)  and  was 
statistically significant (p < 0.001). The mean change from baseline in dietary Phe tolerance in subjects 
receiving  the  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  was  13.1  ±  19.6  (95%  CI:  5.4,  20.9)  and  was  also  statistically 
significant (p = 0.002)(See Table 14). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 33/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 14. Mean Evolution of Dietary Phe Tolerance (mg/kg/day) between Baseline and End of 
the Study Period per Group of Treatment – ITT Population 
The amount of dietary Phe ingested was also calculated from the 3-day Phe diet. The mean change from 
baseline to Week 26 in dietary Phe tolerance based on Phe reported in diary was 32.1 ± 26.2 mg/kg/day 
(95% CI: 21.7, 42.4) and was statistically significant (p < 0.001). In contrast, the mean change from 
baseline  to  Week  26  in  dietary  Phe  tolerance  based  on  Phe  reported  in  diary  did  not  demonstrate 
statistical significance for subjects in the Phe-restricted diet alone group; 4.5 ± 16.8 mg/kg/day 
(95% CI: -2.2, 11.1) p = 0.179. 
Figure10.  Box-plots  for  Dietary  Phe  Tolerance  based  on  Prescribed  Phe  (mg/kg/day)  –  ITT 
Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 34/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Growth Parameters 
Overall,  BMI  SDS,  height  SDS,  max  occipital-frontal  head  circumference  SDS  and  weight  SDS  remained 
stable in subjects in both treatment groups. 
Neuromotor Development Milestones and Neurodevelopmental status 
The  majority  of  subjects  had  normal  neuromotor  development.  Statistically,  there  was  no  significant 
difference between treatment groups for each development milestone. 
Neurodevelopmental  status  was  also  assessed  in  subjects  <  36  months  using  the  standardized    Bayley 
scales. 
Mean ± SD values remained stable for each parameter throughout the Study Period and were comparable 
between the treatment groups. 
CHMP’s comment:  
The protocol indicated that the WPPSI-III (Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence) scale will 
be  used  for  subjects  ≥  3.5  and  <  4  years  old.  No  information  about  the  outcome  of  this  assessment  is 
provided in the study report (it is envisaged that those results will be obtained in the extension period).  
Pharmacogenetic Results 
Out of 109 subjects screened for the study, 77 PGx ICFs were signed and 73 samples were available for 
analysis (4 samples could not be analysed). 
Supportive study 
Phase  3b  Open-Label  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Effect  of  Kuvan  on  Neurocognitive  Function, 
Maintenance of Blood Phenylalanine Concentrations, Safety, and Population Pharmacokinetics 
in Young Children with Phenylketonuria 
Study Plan 
Study PKU-015 is a two-part multicenter, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety of Kuvan and 
its effects on neurocognitive function, blood Phe concentration, and growth in PKUchildren newborn to 6 
years old, inclusive, at study entry. PKU-015 study is ongoing.  
Part 1 of the study (4 weeks) was to determine whether subjects were responsive to oral Kuvan; subjects 
nonresponsive  to  Kuvan  who  completed  4  weeks  were  considered to  have  completed  the  study.  Kuvan-
responsive subjects who scored at least 80 on the Bayley cognitive scale or full scaleIQ on the WPPSI or 
WISC  were  to  continue  to  Part  2  of  the  study  (ongoing),  which  evaluates  long  term  neurocognitive 
function. 
Two substudies to address FDA requests were super imposed on this two-part design structure. 
During Part 1, in addition to determining Kuvan responsiveness for Part 2, a Population PK substudy was 
conducted  (in  Kuvan  non-responders  as  well  as  responders)  (for  more  information  regarding  the  a 
Population PK substudy please refer to section ) 
A  second  substudy,  the  6-MonthSafety/Efficacy  substudy,  enabled  an  assessment  of  Kuvan  safety  and 
efficacy based on blood Phe concentration in this young population (seeFigure11). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 35/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Study plan  
Trial PKU-015 - Pharmacokinetics Sub-study (refer to PK section of this AR). 
Trial PKU-015- 6-Month Safety/Efficacy Sub-study 
Study participants 
The  6-Month  Safety/Efficacy  substudy  involved  subjects  identified  as  Kuvan  responders  who  scored  at 
least 80 on an age-appropriate cognitive measure. Kuvan-responsiveness was defined as at least a 30% 
decrease in blood Phe (on a Phe-controlled diet) during the first 4 weeks of treatment.  
Pediatric subjects who were newborn to 6 years old at study entry were enrolled to the study.  
Treatments 
All subjects received 20 mg/kg/day Kuvan for 6 months. After 5 weeks Kuvan dose could be reduced, or 
dietary Phe supplementation could be modified.  
Objectives: 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  6  months  of  treatment  with  Kuvan  in  Kuvan-
responsive children with PKU who are newborn to 6 years old, inclusive, at study entry. 
Secondary objectives were as follows:  
• 
• 
To  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  6  months  of  Kuvan  treatment  in  controlling  blood  Phe  concentration 
below 240 μmol/L in children with PKU who were newborn to 6 yearsold, inclusive, at study entry 
To provide baseline neurocognitive data for Kuvan-responsive subjects and 6-month Bayley data 
for subjects who were newborn to 2 years old, inclusive, at study entry 
CHMP’s comment:  
There were significant differences in the design between EMR700773-003 study and PKU-015 study.  
In  PKU-015  study  there  was  no  control  group  and  the  starting  dose  of  Kuvan  was  20  mg//kg/day  (in 
EMR700773-003- 10 mg//kg/day).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 36/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The primary objective of PKU-015 study was the assessment of safety. The assessment of efficacy was a 
secondary  objective  for  this  study  and  included  the  analysis  of  blood  Phe  concentration,  neurocognitive 
function and growth. 
The target Phe levels for PKU-015 study were 120- 240 umol/L. 
Results 
Subject Disposition 
A  total  of  95  subjects  aged  0-6  years  of  age  were  enrolled  into the  trial.  Ninety-four  of  the  95  subjects 
participated in the Population PK sub-study, and 93 completed the PK sub-study. 
Among the 65 subjects enrolled into the efficacy Part 2 of the trial, 11 subjects were newborn to <1 year 
old, 11 were 1 to <2 years old, 23 were 2 to <4 years old, and 20 were 4 to <7 years at study entry. All 
but two subjects 2 to <4 years old completed the sub-study; non-serious AEs were the reason for study 
discontinuation for these subjects. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Dietary Phenylalanine 
The  prescribed  dietary  Phe  mean  (±SD)  increased  as  subjects  aged  and  gained  weight  from  346.7 
(±147.49)  mg/day  at  Screening  to  574.8  (±432.56)  mg/day  at  Month  6.  Nearly  half  (49.2%)  of  the 
prescribed  dietary  Phe  modifications  were  increases  by  5  mg/kg/day,  15.4%  were  increases  by  10 
mg/kg/day, and 4.6% were decreases by 5 mg/kg/day. Reasons reported for these modified dietary Phe 
prescriptions were primarily due to blood Phe concentration decreases below 120 μmol/L (73.8%). 
Blood Phe Reduction and Maintenance 
The  mean  (SD)  Blood  Phe  concentration  at  Baseline  was  333.9  (±135.03)  μmol/L,  and  decreased  to 
142.7 (±93.35) μmol/L following one week of Kuvan 20 mg/kg/day. 
The  majority  of  subjects  maintained  blood  Phe  concentrations  below  the  protocol-specified  target 
throughout the 6 month study period. Nearly all subjects maintained blood Phe below 360μmol/L (Month 
1 range: 92% to 97%; Month 6: 84%). Most subjects maintained blood Phe below 240 μmol/L (Month 1 
range: 79% to 86%; Month 6: 69%). 
Blood  Phe  reduction  persisted  over  time.  Overall,  the  blood  Phe  reduction  mean  (±SD)  was  -189.1 
(±132.41) μmol/L after one week of Kuvan intake. (see Figure 12). 
The  mean  blood  Phe  concentrations  declined  markedly  in  all  age  groups  in  this  Kuvan-responder 
population from baseline to Month 2, then rose modestly to levels still below baseline values by Month 3. 
Simultaneously,  prescribed  dietary  Phe  increased  from  baseline  to  Month  6  in  all  age  groups,  both  in 
absolute terms (mg/day) and when corrected for body weight (mg/kg/day), indicating an increase in Phe 
tolerance  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 37/61 
 
 
  
 
Figure  12.  Change  from  Baseline  in  Blood  Phe  Concentration,  by  Age  Group  (6  Month 
Safety/Efficacy Sub-study) 
Neurocognitive Function 
All 65 Kuvan-responsive subjects scored at least 80 on the cognitive scale of the Bayley or full scale IQ of 
the WISC. 
In  the  6  Month  Safety/Efficacy  sub-study,  subjects  newborn  to  2  years  old  at  study  entry  were 
readministered the Bayley at Month 6. Scores on all three Bayley scales were maintained from 
Month  2  to  Month  6  during  Kuvan  treatment.  Median  scores  for  Bayley  cognitive,  language,  and  motor 
scales were 105, 100, and 107, respectively, at Month 2 and 105, 104.5, and 105 at Month 6.  
CHMP’s comment: 
Neurocognitive  function  remained  stable  (within  reference  ranges)  within  6  months;  Part  2  of  PKU-015 
study is ongoing and   will provide long-term results.  
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The applicant has submitted one open-label, randomized, controlled study in support of extension of the 
indication to children younger than 4 years of age for the treatment of HPA due to PKU.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 38/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
This study was performed as part of follow up measures – FUM 005 - requested by CHMP/EMA to evaluate 
the  efficacy  and  safety  in  infants  and  children  of  0-4  years  with  HPA  due  to  PKU  (SPARK:  Protocol 
number: EMR700773-003, EudraCT number: 2009-015768-33).  
The design of the SPARK study was agreed with the CHMP. The primary efficacy endpoint agreed for this 
trial  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  after  26  weeks  of  Kuvan  treatment  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  therapy  in 
increasing dietary Phe tolerance, as compared to dietary Phe therapy alone. Phe tolerance was defined as 
the  prescribed  amount  of  dietary  Phe  (mg/kg/day)  while  maintaining  the  mean  filter-paper  blood  Phe 
levels within the target ranges (≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L).  
The  Kuvan  starting  dose  for  the  trial  was  10  mg/kg/day  which  could  be  adjusted  if  necessary  after  4 
weeks to 20 mg/kg/day.  
56 subjects were randomized to the study (27 Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet and 29 Phe-restricted diet 
alone).  51  out  of  56  subjects  completed  the  Study  Period  (56  subjects  were  included  in  the  ITT 
population, 42 subjects in the PP population). 
EMR700773-003 study indicated that Kuvan when added to the Phe-restricted diet significantly improved 
Phe tolerance.  
In EMR700773-003 study, a significantly higher adjusted mean Phe tolerance was observed consistently 
in all studied population in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group compared with the Phe-restricted diet 
alone  group.  For  ITT  population,  at  Week  26,  the  adjusted  mean  Phe  tolerance  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-
restricted diet group was 80.6 mg/kg/day compared 50.1 mg/kg/day in Phe-restricted diet alone group. 
The  adjusted  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  30.5  mg/kg/day  (95%  CI:  18.7;  42.3) 
and was statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
Consistent  results  were  observed  for  the  PP  population  (the  adjusted  difference  -36.4  mg/kg/day)  and 
when assessment was based on the 3-day Phe diet diary (the adjusted difference 33.7 mg/kg/day).  
Dietary Phe Tolerance (from Baseline) improved in both groups.   
In  the  study  there  was  no  difference  between  groups  in  the  blood  Ph  level  (e.g  changes  from  Baseline) 
(EMR700773-003  study  focused  on  improving  Phe  tolerance  while  maintaining  average  blood  Phe  levels 
within the selected therapeutic target range (defined as ≥ 120 to < 360 μmol/L). 
Growth  parameters  and  neuromotor  development  milestones  and  neurodevelopmental  status  remained 
stable throughout the study. The extension part of EMR700773-003 study is ongoing and will provide long 
term efficacy results.  
PKU-015 study provided supportive efficacy results for children aged 0-6. In PKU-015 study, Kuvan when 
added to Phe-restricted diet significantly reduced blood Phe levels. In addition the prescribed dietary Phe 
intake increased. 
Neurocognitive  function  remained  within  reference  ranges  throughout  the  6  Month  Safety/Efficacy  sub-
study. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The  applicant  submitted  the  clinical  study  report  for  EMR700773-003  study  documenting  the  safety 
aspects of the study (the extension part of EMR700773-003 study is still ongoing and it will provide long 
term safety results). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 39/61 
 
 
  
 
The  safety  results  of  the  PKU-015  study  (e.g  Pharmacokinetics  Sub-study  and  6-Month  Safety/Efficacy 
Sub-study) have been also provided as supportive information. 
In addition, the post marketing safety data have been analysed. The Merck Serono post-marketing safety 
database was searched to identify and evaluate safety cases for paediatric patients from 0 to 48 months 
of age. 
Finally, the safety data  identified in the literature studies performed in children less than 4 years of age 
have been provided by the applicant.  
Patient exposure 
Trial exposure: 
• 
Trial EMR700773-003 
56 subjects were enrolled to the study, 54 were included in the safety population. All subjects received a 
daily dose of 10 mg/kg/day, except 2 subjects who received a daily dose of 20 mg/kg/day by the end of 
the Study Period. Treatment exposure was not analysed in the study. 
• 
Trial PKU-015- Pharmacokinetics Sub-study 
93  were  enrolled  in  the  Population  PK  sub-study.  Mean  (±SD)  duration  of  Kuvan  exposure  was  52.8 
(±13.9) days and ranged from 21 to 83 days.  
• 
Trial PKU-015- 6-Month Safety/Efficacy Sub-study 
65  subjects  were  enrolled  in  the  6  Month  Safety/Efficacy  sub-study.  Mean  (±SD)  duration  of  Kuvan 
exposure was 181.1 (±19.6) days and ranged from 78 to 219 days.  
Adverse events  
Adverse events-Trial EMR700773-003 
All subjects experienced at least one AE. Thirty-one out of 282 events (11.0%) were classified as related 
to  Kuvan  and  were  experienced  by  8  out  of  27  subjects  (29.6%).  The  proportion  of  subjects  who  were 
reported  with  a  SAE  was  slightly  higher  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group  (11.1%)  compared 
with the Phe-restricted diet alone group (3.7%). All SAEs were unrelated to Kuvan. No subjects withdrew 
from the study due to an AE (see Table 15) 
Table15. Overall summary of adverse events- safety population 
CHMP’s comment:  
All  subjects  in  the  safety  population  experienced  at  least  one  AE  however  the  majority  of  reported  AEs 
were mild or moderate in severity, as determined by the investigator. No serious AEs were reported that 
were  considered  related  to  sapropterin  dihydrochloride.  No  subjects  withdrew  from  the  study  due  to  an 
AE. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 40/61 
 
 
  
 
 
The incidence and frequency of treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) by SOC and PT in ≥ 5% of subjects in 
either group by PT is presented in Table 16 
Table 16. Incidence and frequency of treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) by SOC and PT in ≥ 5% 
of subjects in either group by PT 
The incidence and frequency of TEAEs by SOC and PT were generally comparable between both groups. 
The TEAEs reported with the highest incidence (≥ 40% of subjects in either group by SOC) in the Kuvan 
plus  Phe  restricted  diet  group  and  the  Phe  restricted  diet  alone  group  were  in  the  following  SOCs, 
respectively:  infections  and  infestations  (22,  81.5%  and  22,  81.5%),  general  disorders  and 
administration site conditions (17, 63.0% and 18, 66.7%), gastrointestinal disorders (17, 63.0% and 16, 
59.3%),  respiratory,  thoracic  and  mediastinal  disorders  (14,  51.9%  and  16,  59.3%),  and  investigations 
(12, 44.4% and 11, 40.7%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 41/61 
 
 
  
 
 
At the PT level, the most common (≥ 40% of subjects in either group by PT) TEAEs in the Kuvan plus Phe 
restricted diet group and the Phe restricted diet group alone, respectively were: pyrexia (17, 63.0% and 
18,  66.7%),  cough  (13,  48.1%  and  13,  48.1%)  and  nasopharyngitis  (13,  48.1%  and  11,  40.7%). 
Substantial  differences  were  observed  between  both  groups  for  the  following  PTs:  rhinorrhoea  (2,  7.4% 
and 8, 29.6%) and upper respiratory tract infection (1, 3.7% and 6, 22.2%), respectively. There were no 
statistically significant differences between both treatment groups. 
CHMP’s comment:  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  both  treatment  groups  in  relation  to  the 
frequency  of  adverse  events.  In  general,  the  most  commonly  reported  TEAEs  were  typical  for  this 
paediatric age group. 
An analysis of AEs by age sub-groups was also  performed. Subjects were categorised as: < 12 months 
old, or≥ 12 months to< 24 months, or ≥ 24 months to< 48 months.  This analysis showed that in general 
the AE profile within each age group was similar. In addition in each age category there was no significant 
differences between the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group and the Phe-restricted diet alone group with 
the  exception  of  diarrhea  for  children  aged  ≥  24  months  to  <  48  months  (as  in  this  age  category  an 
increased  incidence  rate  of  diarrhea  was  observed  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group  (n=8, 
72.7%) compared with the Phe-restricted diet alone group (n=2, 20.0%). 
Treatment – emergent Adverse Events by relationship to the treatment. 
Thirty-one  out  of  282  (11.0%)  TEAEs  were  considered  to  be  related  to  Kuvan  by  the  investigator  and 
were  reported  for  8  out  of  27  subjects  (29.6%).  The  most  commonly  reported  TEAEs  were  amino  acid 
level  decreased,  vomiting  and  rhinitis.  Other  reported  related  TEAEs  were:  pharyngitis,  diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, amino acid level increased and mouth ulceration.  
Hypophenylalanemia 
In  the  study  special  attention  was  paid  emergent  hypophenylalanemia.  Hypophenylalanemia  (per  study 
protocol defined as Phe levels < 120 μmol/L) was reported as an AE for 37.0% of subjects in the Kuvan 
plus Phe-restricted diet group and 33.0% of subjects in the Phe-restricted diet alone group (see Table17). 
Table 17. Incidence of Treatment-emergent Hypophenylalanemia – Safety Population 
To further evaluate hypophenylalanemia, the incidence of patients with at least one low Phe level during 
the  Study  Period  (post-randomization  to  week  26)  was  calculated  by  treatment  group  for  different 
thresholds (<= 120 μmol/L, <= 40 μmol/L, <= 26 μmol/L) and different age subgroups (<4 years, <12 
Months,  12  -  <24  Months,  24  -  <48  Months).  This  analysis  has  shown  that  a  large  proportion  of  Kuvan 
treated  patients  (77.8%)  and  about  half  of  the  patients  in  the  Phe-restricted  alone  groups  had  at  least 
one blood Phe level below 120 μmol/L. However, very few Phe levels below the normal range thresholds 
of 40 and 26 μmol/L were observed during the study.  
CHMP’s comment: 
Cases of significant hypophenylalaninemia were reported in the SPARK trial.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 42/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Six patients (4 patients from the Kuvan+diet group and 2 patients from the diet alone group) presented 
one Phe value <= 26 μmol/L during the study period.  
Because the potential exists for Phe levels to drop below either the normal or desired therapeutic levels 
due  to  the  pharmacological  action  of  Kuvan,  careful  monitoring  may  be  necessary  during  therapeutic 
adjustments of Kuvan doses and dietary Phe levels. 
It is noted however that the SmPC contains the following warning in section 4.4: Prolonged exposure to 
low  blood  phenylalanine  and  tyrosine  levels  during  infancy  has  been  associated  with  impaired 
neurodevelopmental  outcome.  Active  management  of  dietary  phenylalanine  and  overall  protein  intake 
while taking Kuvan is required to ensure adequate control of blood phenylalanine and tyrosine levels and 
nutritional balance. 
The  warning  included  in the  SmPC  is  sufficient  and the  package leaflet  has  been  updated  to include  the 
relevant warning. 
Blood pressure 
At  Week  26, the  adjusted  mean  change  in  DBP  was  comparable  between the treatment  groups; 2.42  ± 
1.98 mmHg in subjects receiving Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet and 3.79 ± 1.93 in subjects receiving a 
Phe-restricted  diet  only.  The  adjusted  difference  was  1.36  ±  2.76  (95%  CI:  -6.81,  4.08)  and  did  not 
demonstrate statistical significance (p = 0.622) 
Predefined AEs of special interest for safety monitoring 
In the SPARK study there were predefined AEs of special interest for safety monitoring such as possible 
effects  on  oral  mucosa  and  dentition,  headache  and  associated  symptoms  and  gastrointestinal  adverse 
events.  
CHMP’s comment 
The frequency of gastrointestinal disorders (63.0% and 59.3%) and nervous system disorders (7.4% and 
11.1%)  was  comparable  between  the  treatment groups. The  SPARK  study  did  not  provide  any  evidence 
for  the  AEs  of  special  interest  (possible  effects  on  oral  mucosa  and  dentition,  headache  and  associated 
symptoms, gastrointestinal adverse events) that would warrant a change in the safety information in this 
respect. 
Headache was reported only in one subject in EMR700773-003 study, although it is acknowledged  that 
for  adults  headache  is  a  very  common  adverse  reaction  whereas  infants  and  young  children  (especially 
below age 2 to 3 years) may have limited ability to describe the occurrence of headaches.  
Headache  is  adequately  covered  in  the  SmPC,  where  headache  is  listed  as  a  very  common  adverse 
reaction.  In  addition  the  SmPC  states  that  frequency,  type  and  severity  of  adverse  reactions  in  children 
were essentially similar to those in adults. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths occurred in this study. Serious adverse events were reported for a total of 4 subjects, none of 
which were related to the study drug.  
Adverse events reported in the Pharmacokinetics Sub-study (Trial PKU-015) and  the 6 Month 
Safety/Efficacy Sub-study (Trial PKU-015) 
Adverse event data from the trial PKU-015 were presented separately for the pharmacokinetics sub-study 
and for the 6 Month Safety/Efficacy sub-study. All subjects enrolled in either sub-study, who received any 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 43/61 
 
 
  
 
 
amount of Kuvan after the first dose, were included in the safety analyses. Subjects participating in both 
sub-studies were included in both analyses. 
In general, in both studies the most commonly reported AEs were typical for this paediatric age group. In 
both  studies,  the  most  frequently  reported  Kuvan-related  AEs  (≥10%  of  subjects  in  any  group)  were 
vomiting,  abdominal  pain  upper,  and  diarrhea.  No  deaths  were  reported.  One  SAE  was  reported  during 
the Population PK sub-study. This subject was hospitalised for mild gastroenteritis unrelated to Kuvan. No 
SAEs were reported in the 6 Month Safety/Efficacy Sub-study. 
Please also refer to the section `Discontinuation due to adverse events`. 
Laboratory findings 
Some clinical laboratory and biochemistry changes from baseline were observed in the mean and median 
clinical  laboratory  values;  however,  no  clinically  important  trends  were  detected.  No  clinically  relevant 
changes were observed. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the Pharmacokinetics Sub-study (Trial PKU-015)  two mild events (psychogenic vomiting assessed by 
the  investigator  as  probably  related  to  Kuvan  and  elevated  alkaline  phosphatase  assessed  by  the 
investigator as possibly related to Kuvan) resulted in discontinuations after completion of the Population 
PK sub-study but before Part 2 eligibility was determined. 
In  the  6  Month  Safety/Efficacy  Sub-study  (Trial  PKU-015)  two  subjects  were  discontinued  due  to  non-
serious AEs (mild possibly related abdominal pain and mild possibly related hoarseness). 
No subjects were discontinued from EMR700773-003 study due to an AE. 
Post marketing experience 
The Merck Serono post-marketing safety database was searched to identify and evaluate safety cases for 
paediatric  patients  from  0  to  48  months  of  age.  Overall,  144  individual  case  safety  reports  (ICSRs) 
including adverse events and terms related to children aged under 4 years were received cumulatively up 
to 23  May  2014  from  different  sources.  After  excluding  the  neonatal  cases  with  transplacental exposure 
to  sapropterin,  98  cases  including  paediatric  patients  in  age  from  0  to  48  months,  were  reviewed  and 
analysed. 
In 50 of these, the causality assessment of the adverse events was considered as suspected to be related 
to Kuvan: 6 ICSRs were serious unlisted (3 medically confirmed), 31 ICSRs were nonserious unlisted (14 
medically confirmed) and 11 ICSRs were non-serious listed (4 medically confirmed). No ICSRs had a fatal 
outcome (see Table 18). 
Table 18. Individual Case Safety Reports Related to Children Aged Under 4-years 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 44/61 
 
 
  
 
 
In  48  (24  clinical  trials  cases)  out  of  the  98  reviewed  ICRSs,  the  causality  assessment  of  the  adverse 
events  was  considered  as  not  suspected  to  be  related  to  Kuvan  due  to  presence  of  more  plausible 
alternative  explanations.  In  13  cases  insufficient  information  provided  does  not  allow  a  proper 
assessment of the case. 
CHMP’s comment: 
Post  marketing  safety  data  do  not  reveal  any  new  significant  safety  concerns.  Some  serious  unlisted 
cases, with suspected causality, are discussed below.  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
One  case  refers  to  a  2  year  old  female  who  presented  with  gastric  ulcers  while  on  treatment  with 
sapropterin  at  300  mg/day  starting  in  2009  for  phenylketonuria.  On  21  Sep  2010,  she  underwent  an 
endoscopy  which  revealed  ulcerations  by  the  gastro-esophageal  junction.  Kuvan  was  discontinued.  The 
physician reported the gastric ulcers as possibly related to Kuvan therapy. 
Another  case  was  reported  by  a  consumer  and  described  a  2  year  old  female  patient  who  experienced 
oesophageal  ulcer,  gastritis,  vomiting  and  upper  abdominal  pain  five  months  after  sapropterin  initiation 
(Feb 2010) for phenylketonuria. In late Jun 2010, the patient began to vomit every other day. Vomiting 
increased  to  2-3  times  a  day  over  the  next  few  months.  She  also  complained  of  stomach  pain.  In  Aug 
2010, an endoscopy was  performed which showed  ulcers on esophagus and  stomach lining inflamed. In 
Sep 2010, Kuvan was discontinued. The consumer did not provide a causal assessment. Due to the fact 
that  Kuvan  was  the  only  drug  administered  to  the  patient  and  that  gastrointestinal  disorders  can  occur 
under the treatment with Kuvan, a contributory role could not be definitively ruled out. 
CHMP’s comment: 
Two  cases  of  gastrointestinal  ulcers  (gastro-oesophageal  junction  and  oesophageal  ulcer)  were  reported 
in young children receiving Kuvan. In section 4.8 of the SmPC gastrointestinal ulcers are not listed.  
Kuvan  can  cause  gastrointestinal  symptoms  that  could  partly  be  related  to the  acidic  pH  of  the  solution 
containing  sapropterin.  Whether  this  acidic  challenge  might  play  a  role  in  the  development  of  peptic 
ulcers  is  not  certain.  The  applicant  should  monitor  cases  of  gastrointestinal  ulcers  and  discuss  cases  of 
gastrointestinal ulcers reported in patients receiving Kuvan.  
Nervous system disorders  
In  this  MedDRA  SOC  5  serious  unlisted  drug  reactions  (4  “convulsion”  and  1  “febrile  convulsion”)  were 
reported (see Table 19). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 45/61 
 
 
  
 
Table 19. Serous unlisted Convulsion  
It  is  noted  that  in  2  cases  convolutions  were  reported  in  subjects  with  history  of  convulsions  and  in 
remaining 3 cases the subjects were reported to have confounding factors such as trauma and infections. 
CHMP’s comment 
As per the RMP the MAH is monitoring cases of convolutions. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders. 
One  serious  unlisted  (“rash  maculo-papular”)  and  4  non-serious  unlisted  (“nail  discoloration”(2),  “nail 
disorder”  (2x2),  “rash”  (2),  “erythema”,  “pruritus”)  ICSRs  have  been  received  and  analyzed  in  this 
MedDRA SOC. 
CHMP’s comment: 
Hypersensitivity reaction (including rash) is a known and listed event in the current SmPC. 
Literature Review of Efficacy and Safety of BH4 treatment in patients with HPA due to PKU 
A  literature  search  for  studies  assessing  use,  efficacy  and  safety  of  sapropterin  (BH4,  including 
unregistered formulations) in children with HPA due  to PKU under 4 years of age identified a number of 
reports. The identified references described the use of BH4 for short-term period as well as for long-term 
use.  
These  published  reports  demonstrated  that  a  single  dose  of  BH4  at  20  mg/kg  has  been  safely 
administered to infants as young as one day, one week, and one month of age. The studies of short-term 
use of BH4 have not identified any new safety concerns  
In  relation  to  long  term  studies  a  search  of  the  published  literature  revealed  134  children  ≤4  years  old 
who  received  daily  BH4  treatment  with  doses  ranging  from  5  to  20  mg/kg/day  for  >2  months    In  each 
publication,  the  authors  reported  efficacy  of  this  treatment  based  on  either  increased  Phe  tolerance  or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 46/61 
 
 
  
 
 
reduction  in  blood  Phe  levels.  No  significant  safety  concerns  have  been  expressed  in  this  published 
literature. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Kuvan is authorized for the treatment of HPA in adult and paediatric patients of 4 years of age and over 
with  phenylketonuria  (PKU)  and  for  the  treatment  of  HPA  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  (with  no  age 
limit) with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency.  
The current variation application is to extend the indication for the treatment of HPA due to PKU and to 
include  the  paediatric  population  under  4  years  old.  The  safety  and  tolerability  of  Kuvan  tablets  in  the 
treatment  of  HPA  due  to  PKU  in  children  less  4  years  old  were  demonstrated  using  data  collected  from 
one pivotal (EMR700773-003) trial. Results from PKU-015 study provided  supportive information. 
In addition the post marketing safety data and literature data available for children under age of 4 were 
analysed. 
Kuvan  was  well  tolerated  during  the  26-week  Study  Period  of  EMR700773-003  study  and  a  comparable 
safety  profile  was  demonstrated  between  the  two  treatment  groups.  No  new  safety  issues  particular  to 
paediatric  subjects  under  4  years  old  were  identified  in  this  study.  All  subjects  in  the  safety  population 
experienced at least one AE, however the majority of reported AEs were mild or moderate in severity. No 
serious AEs were reported that were considered related to Kuvan.  
In  EMR700773-003  trial  approximately  30%  of  the  27  patients  aged  below  4  years  who  received 
treatment  with  Kuvan  (10  or  20  mg/kg/day)  experienced  adverse  reactions.  The  most  commonly 
reported adverse reactions were amino acid level decreased (hypophenylaninemia), vomiting and rhinitis. 
Other  reported  reactions  were:  pharyngitis,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  amino  acid  level  increased  and 
mouth ulceration.  
Consistent safety results were observed in the PKU-015 study. 
Overall  patient  exposure  in  terms  of  duration  of  exposure  was  limited.  In  the  study  EMR700773-003 
subjects  were  receiving  the  treatment  for  26  weeks.  A  similar  duration  of  exposure  was  in  the  6  Month 
Safety/Efficacy  sub-study  (PKU-015  study).    The  3  years  extension  period  of  EMR700773-003  study  is 
ongoing and will provide more long term safety data in this paediatric population. 
Discontinuation rates due to adverse events in the cited studies were very low. There were no deaths in 
any  studies.   
There  was  a  suspicion  that  paediatric  patients  exposed  to  Kuvan  might  be  more  likely  to  experience 
effects  on  oral  mucosa  and  dentition  or  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  and  these  were  thus  predefined 
AEs  of  special  interest  for  safety  monitoring  in  the  study  protocol.    However,  the  data  provided  do  not 
seem  to  suggest  this  Headache,  a  very  common  adverse  reaction  in  adults,  was  reported  only  in  one 
subject in the main study and in 3 subjects in PKU-015 study. It is  acknowledged though that infants and 
young children may have a limited ability to describe the occurrence of headache as well as other adverse 
events. In the SmPC headache is sufficiently covered. It is listed as a very common adverse reaction.  In 
addition the SmPC states: Frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children were essentially 
similar to those in adults. 
Phe  levels  can  drop  below  either  the  normal  or  desired  therapeutic  levels  due  to  the  pharmacological 
action  of  Kuvan.  In  EMR700773-003  study  cases  of  significant  hypophenylalanemia  were  reported  (few 
Phe  levels  were  below  the  normal  range  thresholds  of  40  and  26  μmol/L  ).  Further  to  CHMP  request, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 47/61 
 
 
  
 
 
adequate information has been added in the PI. 
The postmarking safety data or literature review do not reveal any new significant safety concerns in this 
paediatric  population.  Cases  of  gastrointestinal  ulcers  in  patients  receiving  treatment  with  Kuvan  will be 
monitored. 
2.5.2.  PSUR cycle  
The annex II related to the PSUR, refers to the EURD list which remains unchanged. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The amended RMP has not been provided with this application. The justification provided by the MAH was 
that  the  current  RMP  version  8  on  Kuvan  is  still  valid  and  the  next  RMP  update  has  been  submitted  in 
February 2015 and is currently under evaluation within the procedure EMEA/H/C/00002683/201412. This 
timeframe for updating the RMP was considered acceptable. 
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
As  a  consequence  of  this  new  indication,  sections    4.1,  4.2,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  of  the  SmPC  have  been 
updated  (presented  as  new  text  underlined  and  deleted  text  marked  as  strikethrough)  The  Package 
Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
The following changes were proposed to the SmPC: 
4.1 Therapeutic indications 
“Kuvan is indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults and paediatric patients 
of all ages of 4 years of age and over with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been shown to be responsive 
to such treatment (see section 4.2). 
Kuvan  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  adults  and  paediatric 
patients of all ages with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency who have been shown to be responsive to 
such treatment (see section 4.2).” 
CHMP’s comment: 
The proposed changes are acceptable 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
…. 
Posology  
“PKU 
The starting dose of Kuvan in adult and paediatric patients with PKU is 10 mg/kg body weight once daily. 
The  dose  is  adjusted,  usually  between  5  and  20  mg/kg/day,  to  achieve  and  maintain  adequate  blood 
phenylalanine levels as defined by the physician. 
…. 
Paediatric population 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Kuvan  in  children  under  4  years  of  age  has  not  been  established.  Currently 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 48/61 
 
 
  
 
available  data  are  described  in  section  5.1,  but  no  recommendation  on  posology  can  be  made.  The 
posology is the same in adults and children." 
CHMP’s comment: 
For adults and children > 4 years of age adjustment to the dose according to response to treatment was 
already  recommended  in  the  SmPC.  In  EMR700773-003  study  all  children  received  the  dose  10  or  20 
mg/kg/day.  The SPARK study has not revealed any relevant efficacy differences in children under 4 years 
of age compared to previous study results in older patients. 
Therefore  the  same  dosing  recommendations  are  agreed  for  children  younger  than  4  years  of  age.  The 
dose can be adjusted if necessary as per recommendation included in the SmPC.  
Method of administration 
… 
The prescribed number of tablets should be placed in a glass or cup of water and stirred until dissolved. It 
may  take  a  few  minutes  for  the  tablets  to  dissolve.  To  make  the  tablets  dissolve  faster  they  can  be 
crushed. 
Small  particles  may  be  visible  in  the  solution  and  will  not  affect  the  effectiveness  of  the  medicinal 
product. 
The solution should be drunk within 15 to 20 minutes. 
For doses below 100 mg, one tablet should be dissolved in 100 ml of water and only a certain volume of 
solution should be administered, corresponding to the prescribed dose, e.g. use 50 ml of solution for 50 
mg  of  the  medicine.  An  accurate  measuring  device  with  suitable  graduations  should  be  used  for  this 
purpose. 
…. 
Paediatric population 
Children above 20 kg body weight 
The  prescribed  number  of  tablets  should  be  placed  in  a  glass  or  cup  with  up  to  120 ml  of  water  and 
stirred until dissolved.  
Children up to 20 kg body weight 
The devices required for dosing in children up to 20 kg body weight (i.e. medicine cup with graduations at 
20,  40,  60,  80  ml;  10  ml  and  20  ml  oral  dosing  syringes  with  graduation  at  1  ml  divisions)  are  not 
included  in  the  Kuvan  pack.  These  devices  are  supplied  to  the  specialized  paediatric  centers  for  inborn 
errors of metabolism to be provided to the caregivers of the patients. 
Depending on the dose (in mg/kg/day) the appropriate number of tablets should be dissolved in a volume 
of water as depicted in Tables 1-4, whereby the volume of the solution to be administered is calculated 
according to the prescribed daily dose. The prescribed number of tablets for a 2, 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg/day 
dose should be placed in a medicine cup (that shows the appropriate graduation markings at 20, 40, 60 
and 80 ml) with the amount of water as depicted in Tables 1-4 and stirred until dissolved.  
If  according  to  the  prescribed  daily  dose  a  portion  of  this  solution  needs  to  be  administered,  an  oral 
dosing syringe should be used to withdraw the volume of solution to be administered from the medicine 
cup and transferred to a glass or a cup for administration of the medicine. For small infants who cannot 
drink from a glass or a cup the solution corresponding to the prescribed daily dose may be administered 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 49/61 
 
 
  
 
into the mouth via the oral dosing syringe. A 10 ml oral dosing syringe should be used for administration 
of volumes of ≤ 10 ml and a 20 ml oral dosing syringe for administration of volumes of > 10 ml. 
Table  1  provides  dosing  information  for  children  up  to  20  kg  at  a  dose  of  2 mg/kg  per  day,  Table  2  for 
dosing information at 5 mg/kg per day, Table 3 for dosing information at 10 mg/kg per day and Table 4 
for dosing information at 20 mg/kg per day. 
Table 1: 2 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Children Weighing up to 20 kg 
Weight (kg) 
Total dose 
Number of 
Volume of 
Volume of solution 
(mg/day) 
tablets to be 
dissolution 
to be administered 
dissolved 
(ml) 
(ml) 
 (rounded) 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
26 
28 
30 
32 
34 
36 
38 
40 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
3 
5 
6 
8 
10 
11 
13 
14 
16 
18 
19 
21 
22 
24 
26 
27 
29 
30 
32 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 50/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: 5 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Children Weighing up to 20 kg 
Weight (kg) 
Total dose 
Number of 
Volume of 
Volume of solution 
(mg/day) 
tablets to be 
dissolution 
to be administered 
dissolved 
(ml) 
(ml) 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 
60 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
90 
95 
100 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
26 
28 
30 
32 
34 
36 
38 
40 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 51/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 3: 10 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Children Weighing up to 20 kg  
Weight (kg) 
Total dose 
Number of 
Volume of 
Volume of solution 
(mg/day) 
tablets to be 
dissolution 
to be administered 
dissolved  
(ml) 
(ml) 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
20 
30 
40 
50 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
18 
20 
22 
24 
26 
28 
30 
32 
34 
36 
38 
40 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 52/61 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 4: 20 mg/kg per day Dosing Table for Children Weighing up to 20 kg 
Weight (kg) 
Total dose 
Number of 
Volume of 
Volume of solution 
(mg/day) 
tablets to be 
dissolution 
to be administered 
dissolved  
(ml) 
(ml) 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
120 
140 
160 
180 
200 
220 
240 
260 
280 
300 
320 
340 
360 
380 
400 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
20 
20 
20 
20 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
8 
12 
16 
20 
24 
28 
32 
36 
40 
44 
48 
52 
56 
60 
64 
68 
72 
76 
80 
After administration: Throw away any remaining solution as it should not be used beyond 20 minutes.  
For cleaning, remove the plunger from the barrel of the oral dosing syringe. Wash both parts of the oral 
dosing syringe and the medicine cup with warm water and air dry. When the oral dosing syringe is dry, 
put the plunger back into the barrel. Store the oral dosing syringe and the medicine cup for next use. 
CHMP’s comment: 
In  section  4.2  under  heading  “Paediatric  population”  the  applicant  has  divided  instructions  for  children 
above 20 kg and up to 20 kg body weight. For children above 20 kg body weight the instruction for use 
are  straight  forward.    Dosing  for  children  up  to  20  kg  body  weight  is  calculated  in  mg/kg/day  and 
calculation is presented in four tables. The applicant has included additional dosing schemes in the SmPC 
to cover the lower starting doses for the treatment of patients with BH4 deficiency.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 53/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The MAH will provide specialized paediatric centers for inborn errors of metabolism with 20 ml and 10 ml 
oral  dosing  syringes  (the  latter  for  administration  of  volumes  of  ≤10  ml);  the  PI  has  been  updated 
accordingly. Please refer to the quality section for discussion regarding the method of administration.  
The proposed updates in SPC 4.2 are considered acceptable.  
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Approximately 35% of the 579 patients aged 4 years and over who received treatment with sapropterin 
dihydrochloride  (5  to  20  mg/kg/day)  in  the  clinical  trials  for  Kuvan  experienced  adverse  reactions.  The 
most 
commonly reported adverse reactions are headache and rhinorrhoea. 
In  a  further  clinical  trial,  approximately  30%  of  the  27  children  aged  below  4  years  who  received 
treatment 
with  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  (10  or  20  mg/kg/day)  experienced  adverse  reactions.  The  most 
commonly 
reported adverse reactions are “amino acid level decreased” (hypophenylalaninaemia), vomiting and 
rhinitis. 
Paediatric population 
Frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children were essentially similar to those in adults. 
Frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children are expected to be the same as in adults. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The proposed changes are acceptable. 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population 
The safety, efficacy and population pharmacokinetics of Kuvan were studied in a multicenter, open-label, 
randomized,  controlled  study  in  children  <  4  years  old  with  a  confirmed  diagnosis of  PKU.  56  paediatric 
PKU patients <4 years of age were randomized 1:1 to receive either 10 mg/kg/day Kuvan plus 
a  phenylalanine-restricted  diet  (n=27),  or  just  a  phenylalanine-restricted  diet  (n=29)  over  a  26-week 
Study 
Period. It was intended that all patients maintained blood phenylalanine levels within a range of 120-360 
μmol/L  (defined  as  ≥120  to  <360  μmol/L)  through  monitored  dietary  intake  during  the  26-week  Study 
Period. If after approximately 4 weeks, a patient’s phenylalanine tolerance had not increased by >20% 
Versus baseline, the Kuvan dose was increased in a single step to 20 mg/kg/day. 
The  results  of  this  study  demonstrated  that  daily  dosing  with  10  or  20  mg/kg/day  of  Kuvan  plus 
phenylalanine  -restricted  diet  led  to  statistically  significant  improvements  in  dietary  phenylalanine 
tolerance  compared  with  dietary  phenylalanine  restriction  alone  while  maintaining  blood  phenylalanine 
levels  within  the  target  range  (≥120  to  <360  μmol/L).  The  adjusted  mean  dietary  phenylalanine 
tolerance  in  the  Kuvan  plus  phenylalanine  -restricted  group  was  80.6  mg/kg/day  and  was  statistically 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 54/61 
 
 
  
 
significantly  greater  (p  <  0.001)  than  the  adjusted  mean  dietary  phenylalanine  tolerance  in  dietary 
phenylalanine therapy alone group (50.1 mg/kg/day). 
Kuvan has not been specifically studied in children under 4 years of age, although the published literature 
indicates that more than 600 children of 0 to 4 years old with PKU, have been exposed to treatment with 
an  un-registered  preparation  of  BH4,  including  at  least  35  who  received  therapy  ≥2  months.  The 
maximum daily dose used was 20 mg/kg body weight. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The proposed changes are acceptable. 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties 
Population pharmacokinetics 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  sapropterin  including  patients  from  birth  to  49  years  of  age 
showed 
that body weight is the only covariate substantially affecting clearance or volume of distribution. 
CHMP’s comment: 
The proposed changes are acceptable. 
The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
The following changes are proposed: 
What Kuvan is and what it is used for 
Kuvan is used to treat hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) or phenylketonuria (PKU) in adults and children of 
all ages 4 years of age and over. HPA and PKU are due to abnormally high levels of phenylalanine in the 
blood  which  can  be  harmful.  Kuvan  reduces  these  levels  in  some  patients  who  respond  to  BH4  and  can 
help increase the amount of phenylalanine that can be included in the diet. 
Warning and precautions 
…. 
When you are treated with Kuvan, your doctor will test your blood to verify how much phenylalanine and 
tyrosine it contains and may decide to adjust the dose of Kuvan or your diet if needed. 
You must continue your diet treatment as recommended by your doctor. Do not change your diet without 
contacting your doctor. Even if you take Kuvan, if your phenylalanine blood levels are not well controlled, 
you  can  develop  severe  neurologic  problems.  Your  doctor  should  continue  to  monitor  your  blood 
phenylalanine levels often during your treatment with Kuvan, to make sure that your blood phenylalanine 
levels are not too high or too low. 
Children 
Treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) 
Only give Kuvan to children up to 4 years of age as advised by your doctor. 
How to take Kuvan 
Method of administration 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 55/61 
 
 
  
 
Use in all patients 
Place the prescribed number of tablets in a glass or cup of water as accurately described below and stir until 
dissolved. 
It may take a few minutes for the tablets to dissolve. To make the tablets dissolve faster you can crush them. 
Small particles may be visible in the solution, but they will not affect the effectiveness of the medicine. Drink 
the dissolved preparation of Kuvan with a meal, at the same time each day, preferably in the morning within 
15 to 20 minutes of its preparation.  
Do not swallow the desiccant capsule contained in the bottle. 
….Use in children above 20 kg body weight 
Place the prescribed number of tablets in a glass or cup (up to 120 ml) of water and stir until dissolved. 
It may take a few minutes for the tablets to dissolve. To make the tablets dissolve faster you can crush 
them.  Small  particles  may  be  visible  in  the  solution,  but  they  will  not  affect  the  effectiveness  of  the 
medicine. Drink the dissolved preparation of Kuvan with a meal, at the same time each day, preferably in 
the morning within 15 to 20 minutes of its preparation.  
Do not swallow the desiccant capsule contained in the bottle. 
… 
Use in children up to 20 kg body weight 
The  dose  of  Kuvan  is  based  on  body  weight.  This  will  change  as  your  child  grows.  Your  doctor  will  tell 
you: 
• 
• 
• 
the number of Kuvan tablets needed for one dose 
the amount of water needed to mix one dose of Kuvan 
the amount of solution you will need to give your child for their prescribed dose 
Your  child  should  drink  the  dissolved  preparation  of  Kuvan  with  a  meal,  at  the  same  time  each  day, 
preferably in the morning. Give your child the prescribed amount of solution within 15 to 20 minutes after 
dissolving.  If  you  are  not  able  to  give  your  child’s  dose  within  15  to  20  minutes  after  dissolving  the 
tablets, pour the unused medicine into the trash. You will need to prepare a new solution as the unused 
solution should not be used beyond 20 minutes. 
Supplies needed to prepare and give your child’s dose of Kuvan 
• 
The number of Kuvan tablets needed for one dose 
•  A medicine cup with graduation markings at 20, 40, 60 and 80 ml 
•  A glass or cup 
•  Small spoon or clean utensil for stirring 
•  Oral dosing syringe graduated in 1 ml divisions (10 ml syringe for administration of volumes of ≤ 
10 ml or 20 ml syringe for administration of volumes of > 10 ml) 
Ask your doctor for the medicine cup for dissolving the tablets and the 10 ml or 20 ml oral dosing syringe 
if you do not have these supplies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 56/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place the prescribed number of tablets in the medicine cup. Pour the amount of water into the medicine 
cup, as instructed by your doctor (e.g. your doctor told you to use 20 ml for dissolving one Kuvan tablet). 
Check  to  make  sure  that  the  amount  of  liquid  lines  up  with  the  amount  that  your  doctor  tells  you.  Stir 
with the small spoon or clean utensil until the tablets dissolve.  
If your doctor told you to administer only a portion of the solution, point the tip of the oral dosing syringe 
into the medicine cup. Slowly pull back the plunger to withdraw the amount as instructed by your doctor. 
Transfer the solution by pushing on the plunger slowly until all of the solution in the oral dosing syringe is 
transferred to a glass or cup for administration (e.g. if your doctor told you to dissolve two Kuvan tablets 
in 40 ml water and administer 30 ml to your child, you would have to use the 20 ml oral dosing syringe 
two  times  to  draw  up  30  ml  (e.g.  20  ml  +  10  ml)  Kuvan  solution  and  transfer  it  to  a  glass  or  cup  for 
administration).  Use  a  10 ml  oral  dosing  syringe  for  administration  of  volumes  ≤  10  ml  or  a  20  ml  oral 
dosing syringe for administration of volumes > 10 ml. 
If your baby is too small to drink from a glass or a cup you may administer the dissolved preparation of 
Kuvan  via  the  oral  dosing  syringe.  Draw  up  the  prescribed  volume  from  the  solution  prepared  in  the 
medicine cup and place the tip of the oral dosing syringe into your baby’s mouth. Point the tip of the oral 
dosing syringe towards either cheek. Push on the plunger slowly, a small amount at a time, until all of the 
solution in the oral dosing syringe is given.  
Throw away any remaining solution. Remove the plunger from the barrel of the oral dosing syringe. Wash 
both parts of the oral dosing syringe and the medicine cup with warm water and air dry. When the oral 
dosing syringe is dry, put the plunger back into the barrel. Store the oral dosing syringe and the medicine 
cup for next use. 
For  doses below  100 mg, one  tablet  should be  dissolved  in  100 ml  of  water.  Your  doctor  will  tell  you  to 
administer only a certain volume of the solution corresponding to the appropriate dose, e.g. use 50 ml of 
solution  for  50 mg  of  the  medicine.  An  accurate  measuring  device  with  suitable  graduations  should  be 
used for this purpose. 
It may take a few minutes for the tablets to dissolve. To make the tablets dissolve faster you can crush 
them.  Small  particles  may  be  visible  in  the  solution,  but  they  will  not  affect  the  effectiveness  of  the 
medicine. Drink the dissolved preparation of Kuvan with a meal, at the same time each day, preferably in 
the morning within 15 to 20 minutes of its preparation.  
Do not swallow the desiccant capsule contained in the bottle 
CHMP’s comment: 
The proposed changes are acceptable 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Hyperphenylalaninaemia  is  an  orphan  disease  which  untreated  can  result  in  profound  neurological  and 
developmental  problems.  The  current  standard  of  care  for  HPA  is  a  Phe  restricted  diet  which  is  very 
restrictive  in  nature.  Therefore  there  is  a  high  potential  for  compromised  quality  of  life  as  well  as  non-
compliance.  There  is  no  currently  approved  pharmacological  treatment  for  HPA  due  to  PKU  for  children 
aged 0-4 years. Therefore there is a need for medical therapies for this sub-population of children which 
could  complement  the  Phe  restricted  diet.  EMR700773-003  study  provided  in  support  of  this  variation 
application  indicated  that  Kuvan  when  added  to  the  Phe-restricted  diet  significantly  improved  Phe 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 57/61 
 
 
  
 
 
tolerance while maintaining blood Phe levels within the range of 120 to 360 μmol/L (defined as ≥ 120 to 
< 360 μmol/L).  
Beneficial effects 
The  applicant  has  submitted  one  pivotal  open-label,  randomized,  controlled  study  (EMR700773-003)  in 
support of  extension of  the  indication to  children  younger  than  4  years  of  age  for  the treatment  of  HPA 
due to PKU. 
EMR700773-003 study indicated that Kuvan when added to the Phe-restricted diet significantly improved 
Phe tolerance in children younger than 4 years of age.  
In EMR700773-003 study, a significantly higher adjusted mean Phe tolerance was observed consistently 
in  all  studied  populations  in  the  Kuvan  plus  Phe-restricted  diet  group  compared  with  the  Phe-restricted 
diet alone group. For ITT, at Week 26, the adjusted mean Phe tolerance in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted 
diet  group  was  80.6  mg/kg/day  compared  to  50.1  mg/kg/day  in  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group.  The 
adjusted  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  30.5  mg/kg/day  (95%  CI:  18.7;  42.3)  and 
was statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
Consistent  results  were  observed  for  the  PP  population  (the  adjusted  difference  36.4  mg/kg/day)  and 
when assessment was based on the 3-day Phe diet diary (the adjusted difference 33.7 mg/kg/day). 
Growth parameters and neuromotor development milestones remained stable throughout the study. 
PKU-015 study provided supportive efficacy results for children aged 0-6 years. In PKU-015 study, Kuvan 
when  added  to  Phe-restricted  diet  significantly  reduced  blood  Phe  levels.  In  addition  the  prescribed 
dietary Phe intake increased. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
There are uncertainties regarding the following: the minimum effective dose for children < 4 years of age  
and efficacy with long-term use. 
For adults and children > 4 years of age adjustment to the dose according to response to treatment was 
already recommended in the SmPC.  In EMR700773-003 study children received 10 or 20 mg/kg/day.  
The  SPARK  study  did  not  reveal  any  relevant  efficacy  differences  in  children  under  4  years  of  age 
compared to previous study results in older patients.  
Therefore, the same dosing recommendations are agreed for children younger than 4 years of age . The 
dose can be adjusted if necessary as per recommendations included in the SmPC. 
EMR700773-003  study  provided  short  term  efficacy  results  for  the  treatment  of  HPA  due  to  PKU  in 
children  younger  than 4  years  of  age.  The  results  from  the  completed  26  weeks  Study  Period  has  been 
provided  in  support  of  the  current  application.  The  extension  part  of  EMR700773-003  study  is  still 
ongoing and it will provide information on efficacy with long-term use.  
Risks 
Kuvan  cannot  reduce  blood  levels  in  all  patients  with  raised  phenylalanine  levels  but  does  appear  to 
reduce  levels  in  subjects  who  have  been  shown  to  respond  to  BH4.  In  prescribing  this  product,  it  is 
therefore important to inform  that  the  product does  not  work in  all  patients with  PKU  or  BH4  deficiency 
but only in those who have shown a definite effect. Determination of response is addressed adequately in 
the PI. 
In addition, it is important to ensure that patients treated are monitored to ensure an adequate response 
and an absence of excess effect in phenylalanine levels. Phe levels can drop below either the normal or 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 58/61 
 
 
  
 
desired therapeutic levels due to the pharmacological action of Kuvan. In  EMR700773-003 study cases of 
significant hypophenylalaninemia were reported. However, the risk associated with hypophenylalaninemia 
is currently well addressed throughout the PI. 
Unfavourable effects 
Kuvan  was  well  tolerated  during  the  26-week  study  period  of  EMR700773-003  study  and  a  comparable 
safety profile was demonstrated between the two treatment groups. All subjects in the study experienced 
at  least  one  AE,  however  the  majority  of  reported  AEs  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  The  most 
commonly reported events were pyrexia, cough and nasopharyngitis. No serious AEs were reported that 
were considered to be related to Kuvan. 
In  EMR700773-003  trial  approximately  30%  of  the  27  patients  aged  below  4  years  who  received 
treatment  with  Kuvan  (10  or  20  mg/kg/day)  experienced  adverse  reactions.  The  most  commonly 
reported adverse reactions were amino acid level decreased (hypophenylaninemia), vomiting and rhinitis. 
Other reported related reactions were: pharyngitis, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, amino acid level increased 
and mouth ulceration.  
Phe  levels  can  drop  below  either  the  normal  or  desired  therapeutic  levels  due  to  the  pharmacological 
action  of  Kuvan.  In    EMR700773-003  study  cases  of  significant  hypophenylalanemia  were  reported  (few 
Phe  levels  were  below  the  normal  range  thresholds  of  40  and  26  μmol/L  ).  The  risk  of 
hypophenylalanemia is appropriately addressed in the PI. 
The  postmarking  safety  data  or  literature  review  does  not  reveal  new  significant  safety  concerns  in  this 
paediatric  population.  It  has  been  recommended  to  monitor  cases  of  gastrointestinal  ulcers  in  patients 
receiving treatment with Kuvan.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
EMR700773-003  study  provides  short  term  safety  data  in  children  younger  than  4  years.  Long  term 
safety results are not yet available. The extension part of EMR700773-003 study is still ongoing and it will 
provide information on safety with long-term use.  
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Overall benefit risk is considered to be positive.  
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
Hyperphenylalaninaemia  is  an  orphan  disease  which  untreated  can  result  in  profound  neurological  and 
developmental problems. There is no currently approved pharmacological treatment for HPA due to PKU 
for  children  aged  0-4  years.  Therefore  there  is  a  need  for  medical  therapies  for  this  sub-population  of 
children which could complement a Phe restricted diet. EMR700773-003 study provided in support of this 
variation indicated that Kuvan when added to the Phe-restricted diet significantly improved Phe tolerance 
while  maintaining  blood  Phe  levels  within  the  range  of  120  to  360  μmol/L  (defined  as  ≥  120  to  <  360 
μmol/L).  
In EMR700773-003 study, a significantly higher adjusted mean Phe tolerance was observed consistently 
in all studied population in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet group compared with the Phe-restricted diet 
alone group. For ITT, at Week 26, the adjusted mean Phe tolerance in the Kuvan plus Phe-restricted diet 
group  was  80.6  mg/kg/day  compared  50.1  mg/kg/day  in  Phe-restricted  diet  alone  group.  The  adjusted 
difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  30.5  mg/kg/day  (95%  CI:  18.7;  42.3)  and  was 
statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 59/61 
 
 
  
 
Consistent  results  were  observed  for  the  PP  population  and  when  assessment  was  based  on  the  3-day 
Phe diet diary. Growth parameters and neuromotor development milestones remained stable throughout 
the study. 
PKU-015 study provided supportive efficacy results for children aged 0-6 years.   
In  relation  to  safety,  the  data  provided  demonstrated  a  favourable  safety  profile  for  Kuvan  in  PKU 
patients < 4 years old. 
In  EMR700773-003  study,  Kuvan  was  well  tolerated  and  a  comparable  safety  profile  was  demonstrated 
between  the  two  treatment  groups.  All  subjects  experienced  at  least  one  AE  however  the  majority  of 
reported  AEs  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  The  most  commonly  reported  events  were  pyrexia, 
cough and nasopharyngitis. No serious AEs were reported that were considered related to Kuvan. 
In  EMR700773-003  study  approximately  30%  of  the  27  patients  aged  below  4  years  who  received 
treatment  with  Kuvan  (10  or  20  mg/kg/day)  experienced  adverse  reactions.  The  most  commonly 
reported adverse adverse reactions were amino acid level decreased (hypophenylaninemia), vomiting and 
rhinitis.  Other  reported  related  reactions  were:  pharyngitis,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  amino  acid  level 
increased and mouth ulceration.  
Kuvan is already approved for  the treatment of HPA in paediatric patients of all ages with BH4 deficiency 
The  new  treatment  target  population  (PKU  patients  0-4yr)  does  not  differ  significantly  from  the  BH4 
deficient patients 0-4yr one, for which Kuvan was previously authorized. 
The  postmarking  safety  data  or  literature  reviews  do  not  reveal  any  new  significant  safety  concerns  in 
this paediatric population. 
Overall benefit risk is considered to be positive  
4.  Recommendations 
Final Outcome 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  submitted  data,  the  CHMP  considers  the  following    variation  acceptable  and 
therefore  recommends    the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  concerning  the 
following change(s): 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of  a  new  therapeutic  indication  or  modification  of  an 
approved one  
Extension  of  indication  for  the  'treatment  of  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  adults  and  paediatric 
patients of 4 years of age and over with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have shown to be responsive to such 
treatment' to include the paediatric population of all ages.  
Consequently,  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  of  the  SmPC  and  the  Package  Leaflet  are  updated 
accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 60/61 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The  marketing  authorisation  holder  shall  submit  periodic  safety  update  reports  for  this  product  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  set  out  in  the  list  of  Union  reference  dates  (EURD  list)  provided  for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the same 
time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever  the  risk  management  system  is  modified,  especially  as  the  result  of  new  information  being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Paediatric data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan P/0232/2013 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
5.   EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this variation. In particular the EPAR module 
8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Extension  of  indication  for  the  'treatment  of  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  adults  and  paediatric 
patients of 4 years of age and over with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have shown to be responsive to such 
treatment' to include the paediatric population of all ages. Consequently, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 
5.2 of the SmPC and the Package Leaflet are updated accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Summary 
Please refer to the scientific discussion Kuvan EMEA/H/C/000943/II/0033 for further information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/329625/2015 
Page 61/61 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
 
