European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/604757/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Kuvan 
International Nonproprietary Name: sapropterin  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000943 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 14 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 35 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 37 
2/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Merck KGaA submitted on 30 October 2007 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) through the centralised procedure for Kuvan, which was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/04/199 on 8 June 2004. Kuvan was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product in the following indication:  treatment of hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA). 
The calculated prevalence of this condition was 17 per 100,000 EU population. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA) in adult 
and paediatric patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) or tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency. 
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on  15 June 2005. The Protocol 
Assistance pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP* and the evaluation teams were: 
Patrick Salmon  
Rapporteur: 
*During the meeting on 21-25 March 2008, the CHMP agreed on a switch of Rapporteurship, being 
from then onwards Dr. Salmon the Rapporteur and Dr. Neels the Co-Rapporteur. 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Pieter Neels  
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 30 October 2007. 
The procedure started on 23 November 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
29  February.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 13 February 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  17-19  March  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 19 March 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
21 May 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 4 July 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 July 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant . 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
20 August 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 9 September 2008. 
3/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Kuvan  on  25  September  2008.  The  applicant  provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on 
22 September 2008. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 2 December 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Hyperphenylalaninemia  (HPA)  is  defined  as  a  chronic  abnormal  elevation  in  blood  phenylalanine 
levels. Phenylalanine (Phe) is one of 8 essential amino acids that cannot be synthesised de novo in the 
human  body.  Physiologic  requirements  for  Phe  are  met  exclusively  by  dietary  protein  intake.  In 
addition,  Phe  is  a  necessary  precursor  for  synthesis  of  tyrosine,  which  is  considered  a  conditionally 
essential amino acid due to its dependence on Phe metabolism. Tyrosine, in turn, serves as a precursor 
for neurotransmitter and thyroid hormone syntheses. Usual dietary intake of protein provides excess 
amounts  of  Phe  and  blood  Phe  levels  are  maintained  within  non-toxic  levels  via  utilisation, 
metabolism and excretion.  
Since  the  conversion  of  Phe  to  tyrosine  by  phenylalanine  hydroxylase  (PAH)  normally  accounts  for 
approximately  75%  of  dietary  Phe  disposal,  disorders  of  Phe  metabolism  can  cause  abnormal 
elevations in  blood  Phe  levels,  or  HPA.  Although  such  conditions  are rare,  severe  HPA  has  serious 
clinical  consequences  for  affected  individuals,  including  severe  neurocognitive  delay  and  mental 
retardation,  neuromotor  disability  and  adverse  pregnancy  outcomes  for  affected  women.  In  the 
application  for  Orphan  Medicinal  Product  designation,  the  population  prevalence  for  HPA  in 
European countries was estimated to be 1.7 in 10,000 (EMEA/5516/045). In recognition of the serious 
and debilitating nature of HPA and its rare occurrence, this condition has been granted orphan drug 
status in the EU, US, Australia and Switzerland.  
Two  genetic  conditions,  PKU  and  BH4-deficiency,  account  for  the  majority  of  cases  of  clinically 
significant HPA. Both of these conditions are detectable in newborn screening programs. HPA in both 
conditions can be controlled by dietary restriction of whole protein, with concomitant administration 
of  commercial  Phe-free  protein  supplements  to  provide  adequate  nutritional  intake  of  protein. 
Although this dietary therapy has proven to be beneficial in lowering blood Phe levels and preventing 
the  severe  neurological  consequences  of  HPA,  most  affected  individuals  are  unable  to  maintain 
adequate control of blood Phe levels with diet therapy since the severe restriction of dietary protein is 
impractical  in  daily  life.  In  addition,  the  Phe-free  protein  supplements,  which  are  necessary  to 
maintain protein nutrition, are widely acknowledged to be unpalatable.  
Sapropterin dihydrochloride, a synthetic version of 6R-BH4, the naturally occurring cofactor, is 
proposed as an oral treatment for hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in patients with phenylketonuria 
(PKU) or BH4 deficiency. In patients with PKU, the role of sapropterin dihydrochloride is to enable 
endogenous PAH activity and to partially restore oxidative metabolism of phenylalanine, resulting in 
decreased blood phenylalanine levels in PKU patients. In patients with BH4 deficiency, sapropterin 
dihydrochloride is proposed to restore endogenous PAH activity by providing an exogenous source of 
the missing cofactor. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Composition 
Kuvan  contains  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  as  the  active  substance.  It  is  presented  as  soluble 
tablets,  which  are  dissolved  in  water  prior  to  administration.  Each  soluble  tablet  contains  100  mg  of 
sapropterin  dihydrochloride,  which  is  equivalent  to  76.8  mg  of  sapropterin.  The  dose  is  dependent  on 
body  weight  and  is  adjusted  for  maximum  therapeutic  effect,  but  will  usually  be  in  the  range 
5-20 mg/kg/day.  
4/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients include ascorbic acid, crospovidone, anhydrous calcium hydrogen phosphate, 
mannitol, riboflavin and sodium stearyl fumarate. 
The tablets are packaged into HDPE bottles. A silica gel desiccant canister is placed into each 
bottle together with a pharmaceutical-grade polyester coil, which is placed in each bottle to fill excess 
space and prevent damage. The bottle is induction sealed with an inner cap liner and the closure is a 
child-resistant cap. 
Active Substance 
Sapropterin  is  a  synthetic  formulation  of  the  naturally-occurring  6R-diastereomer  of 
tetrahydrobiopterin  (‘BH4’),  an  endogenous  compound  which  is  a  co-factor  of  phenylalanine 
hydroxylase, the enzyme responsible for phenylalanine metabolism. 
Sapropterin is the recommended INN and it refers to the 6R diastereomer of tetrahydrobiopterin. 
The  active  substance  is  the  dihydrochloride  salt.  Its  chemical  name  is  (6R)-2-amino-6-[(1R,2S)-1,2-
dihydroxypropyl]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4(1H)-pteridinone  dihydrochloride  and  its  structure  is  shown 
below: 
O
4
N
3
2 1
N
H
4a
8a
H
N
5
8
N
H
NH2
OH
H
H
2
6
7
1
OH
3
CH3
H
Sapropterin dihydrochloride is a crystalline powder. It is hygroscopic and very soluble in water 
(> 1 g/ml). 
There  are  three  chiral  centers,  the  absolute  configurations  of  which  are  given  in  the  chemical 
name. Two of the chiral centers are found in the dihydroxypropyl side chain. The third chiral center is 
found  at  the  juncture  of  the  dihydroxylpropyl  side  chain  with  the  pteridone  ring  at  C-6.  The  “R” 
absolute configuration at this center is necessary for pharmacological effect, while the 6S form  may 
cause inactivation of phenylalanine hydroxylase, thus inhibiting the effects of the 6R form. 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride exhibits polymorphism and many crystalline forms were identified 
during  the  course  of  crystallisation  studies.  Form  B  is  a  thermodynamically  stable  crystalline 
anhydrate  and  it  can  be  specifically  identified  by  X-ray  powder  diffraction.  Given  that  the  finished 
product is formulated as soluble tablets that will be dissolved prior to administration and in view of the 
high  aqueous  solubility  of  the  active  substance,  the  existence  of  polymorphism  is  not  a  source  of 
concern. 
The chemical structure of sapropterin dihydrochloride has been confirmed using elemental analysis, 
mass spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, 13C and 1H NMR, ultraviolet spectroscopy, optical rotation 
of the active substance.  
•  Manufacture 
The synthesis of sapropterin dihydrochloride involves a number of synthetic and purification steps 
and uses commercially available starting materials. The critical steps in the synthesis have been identified 
and  have  been  appropriately  validated.  The  manufacturing  process  has  been  shown  to  consistently 
produce the desired 6R isomer with an optical purity of ≥ 99%. X-ray diffraction studies show that the 
polymorph manufactured with the proposed synthetic process is the stable anhydrous crystal Form B.  
Related substances arising either from the route of synthesis or from degradation have been identified 
and some of them are specified impurities. The specification limits for those impurities above the limit 
of max.0.15% have been toxicologically qualified.  
The solvents used in the synthesis have been shown to be efficiently removed during the purification and 
drying operations and appropriate specifications have been set. 
5/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, identification (IR, UV, optical 
rotation), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), pH, loss on drying (Ph. 
Eur), and heavy metals (Ph. Eur).    
Batch  analysis  results  have  been  provided  for  23  pilot  and  6  commercial-scale  batches; 
commercial batches were manufactured by the proposed manufacturer. All the batches were within the 
proposed specifications. 
• 
Stability 
Stability studies were carried out on pilot scale and production scale batches according to the 
ICH requirements. Samples were stored at 25oC/60 % RH for up to 12 months and at 40oC/75 % RH 
for 6 months.  
The parameters tested were appearance, assay, related substances and loss on drying using the 
analytical methods intended for release testing. The samples were also tested in selected timepoints for 
polymorphic purity using X-ray powder diffraction.  
The long-term and accelerated stability data show no significant changes in the appearance, or 
in X-ray diffraction results demonstrating that there is no polymorphic transition state. The observed 
changes in assay values are within the method intermediate precision limits and no downward trend is 
observed. In addition the related substance impurity levels have not increased significantly over time. 
The results presented support the proposed re-test period when the active substance is stored at 
the recommended conditions (controlled room temperature, protected from moisture). 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Kuvan  has  been  developed  as  an  immediate  release  solid  dosage  form  intended  to  be 
administered  orally  as  dissolved  tablets  (administration:  dissolution  in  water,  the  solution  should  be 
administered within 15 to 20 minutes). The proposed formulation evolved from a granule formulation 
(Biopten®) approved in Japan in 1992. The clinical development program as well as the non-clinical 
studies had been initiated using the granule formulation. Later on, there was a re-development of the 
granule formulation to an immediate release tablet due to manufacturing considerations and in order to 
improve patient compliance. 
In the tablet formulation the same excipients were used as in the already marketed granules with 
minor  modifications.  Mannitol  was  retained  as  a  sweetener,  ascorbic  acid  as  an  antioxidant  and 
riboflavine  as  a  colorant,  while  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate  dihydrate  was  replaced  with  the 
anhydrate.  In  addition  a  disintegrant  (crospovidone)  and  a  lubricant  (sodium  stearyl  fumarate)  were 
used in the tablet formulation. The compatibility of the active substance with the excipients used has 
been demonstrated by stability data. 
Since  the  tablets  are  intended  to  be  dissolved  in  water  the  short-term  chemical  stability  of 
sapropterin  dihydrochloride  in  the  recommended  medium  has  been  investigated.  Stability  data  have 
been  provided  for  up  to  180  minutes.  The  data  show  that  the  levels  of  individual  and  total  related 
substances remained within specification for 60 minutes after being dissolved in water. Furthermore, it 
has  been  shown  that  two  tablets  can  be  dissolved  in  as  little  as  5  ml  of  water,  which  facilitates 
administration to infants. 
For the manufacturing process development a standard direct compression process has been used. The 
minor formulation and process modifications that have occurred during the development have no 
impact of the final product profile and the equivalency of the sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets used 
in clinical studies and the proposed commercial formulation and manufacturing process has been 
demonstrated with dissolution and stability studies. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  direct  compression  process.  All  critical  process 
parameters  have  been  identified  and  controlled  by  appropriate  in-process  controls.  The  validation 
report  for  three  consecutive  commercial-scale  batches  has  been  provided.  All  three  batches  met  the 
validation acceptance criteria and complied with the product specification. 
6/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Product Specification 
The specification for the finished product at release and shelf life includes tests for appearance, 
identification  (HPLC,  UV),  assay,  (HPLC),  disintegration,  (Ph.  Eur),  loss  on  drying,  ascorbic  acid 
content, (HPLC),  content uniformity  (Ph.Eur),  dissolution  (Ph.  Eur),  related substances (HPLC)  and 
microbiological attributes.  
The proposed disintegration test limit in the specification does not meet the requirements of the Ph. 
Eur. monograph for soluble tablets (testing is at 37 °C instead of 15-25 °C) at either the time of release 
or during the shelf-life. Nonetheless, it has been shown that the tablets dissolve readily, when they are 
stirred in water at room temperature.  This derogation from the Ph.Eur. requirement does not raise 
concerns about the clinical performance of the product, because, as directed in the SPC and Package 
Leaflet, prior to administration the tablets should be stirred by the patient until dissolved. The fact that 
the active substance is freely soluble in water (> 1 g/ml) as well as in acidic and basic aqueous 
solutions provides additional assurance that a longer disintegration time would not affect 
bioavailability, as complete dissolution would be reached before the drug entered the upper intestine. 
Finally the inclusion of a dissolution test in the specification (Q ≥ 85% at 15 minutes), is another 
safeguard that bioavailability will not be adversely affected by the potentially longer disintegration 
time of the tablets. 
Batch analysis data from 6 pilot scale batches have been presented. All batches met the test 
limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the time of batch release. 
Process validation data on three commercial scale batches have been provided. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability studies were conducted under long-term (25 °C/60% RH) and accelerated (40 °C /75% 
RH)  conditions  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q1A,  ‘Stability  Testing  of  New  Drug  Substances  and 
Products’.  The  parameters  tested  were  appearance,  disintegration,  loss  on  drying,  ascorbic  acid 
content,  dissolution,  dissolution  profile,  assay,  related  substances,  total  aerobic  count  using  the 
analytical procedures employed for release.  
Data have been provided for six batches of the proposed market formulation packaged in 100 
cm3 HDPE bottles for 12 months under long-term and 6 months under accelerated conditions. 
Data have been provided for six batches of the proposed market formulation packaged in 100 
cm3 HDPE bottles for 12 months under long-term and 6 months under accelerated conditions. 
In  addition  to  the  above,  supportive  data  have  been  provided  for  five  batches  of  a  development 
formulation, which differs from the proposed market formulation only in the content of lubricant. Two 
of  these  batches  were  packaged  in  aluminium/aluminium  blisters,  and  the  other  three  batches  were 
packaged in HDPE bottles. The studies were conducted under ICH conditions and results are available 
for 24 months under long-term conditions and for 6 months under accelerated conditions. 
The results  from all the above studies indicate that the stability of the tablets is excellent  The 
only  noticeable  chemical  change  is  an  increase  in  the  content  of  dihydrobiopterin;  as  this  is  a 
metabolite of the drug substance, the increase is not a cause for concern in itself. There has also been a 
slight increase in disintegration time for those samples stored at accelerated conditions, but not at long 
term conditions; an appropriate condition has therefore been included in the SPC, i.e. ‘store below 25 
°C. 
One batch of tablets was subjected to photostability testing in accordance with the ICH note for 
guidance on ‘Photostability testing of new drug substances and products’ (ICH Q1B). No evidence of 
degradation was detected following exposure to UV/visible light. 
One batch of tablets was subjected to stability testing under simulated in-use conditions for 8 
weeks.  The  results  indicate  that  the  tablets  remained  stable  under  long-term  conditions  (25  °C/60% 
RH) for the full period of the study. A warning to store the tablets in the original pack for protection 
from  moisture,  and  a  direction  to  close  the  bottles  tightly,  have  been  included  in  the  SPC  and 
label/leaflet texts and are justified by the results of the in-use stability study. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Kuvan is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation has been submitted for marketing authorization. There are no major deviations from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
7/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
The active substance is well characterised and documented. It exhibits optical activity and has several 
polymorphic forms; however the route of synthesis has been demonstrated to consistently produce the 
desired isomer and polymorphic form. In addition appropriate specifications have been established to 
ensure its quality. The excipients are commonly used in these types of formulations and comply with 
Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  is  a  standard  process  that  has  been  adequately 
described. Stability tests indicate that the product under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable 
for the proposed shelf life. At the time of the Opinion there were a few unresolved issues that did not 
affect the benefit/risk of the product and will be addressed as post-authorisation commitments. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
Non-clinical  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  conducted  in  normal  rodents  where  HPA  was 
induced by administering the BH4 biosynthesis inhibitor, DAHP (2,4-diamino-6-hydroxypyrimidine). 
Such studies demonstrated that 6R-BH4 supplementation by systemic route can reverse the effects of 
inhibitors of the BH4 biosysnthesis pathway. Indeed, sapropterin reversed DAHP-induced increases in 
plasma/liver Phe levels at doses levels from 5 mg/kg p.o. in rats and at 20 mg/kg p.o. in guinea pigs. 
Moreover, in the guinea pig pregnant model, lowering in maternal and foetus plasma/liver Phe levels 
was observed and appeared primarily due to a reduction of overall blood Phe in the mother, resulting 
in  a  lowering  of  transplacental  Phe  transfer  and  foetal  uptake.  However,  a  transplacental  transfer  of 
sapropterin  to  the  foetus  could  not  be  excluded.  While  the  DAPH-induced  BH4  deficiency  animal 
model  is  considered  acceptable  as  a  model  of  HPA  due  to  BH4  deficiency.  There  is  no  appropriate 
animal models for HPA due to PKU, due to the extreme heterogeneous genotypic variation in the PKU 
population.  However,  from  the  clinical  development program,  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  increased 
the  overall  levels  of  PAH  activity,  partially  restored  normal  physiologic  phenylalanine  oxidative 
capacity, and reduced blood phenylalanine concentrations in PKU patients responsive to 6R-BH4. 
Furthermore, sapropterin reversed intracerebral monoamine depletion induced by α-methyltyrosine, a 
TPH  inhibitor,  as  well  as  the  associated  decreases  in  motor  activity.  The  single  oral  dosing  of 
sapropterin  to  3-week  old  mice,  resulted  in  some  activation  of  the  intracerebral  monoamine 
metabolism; such effects were pronounced at doses as high as 1000 mg/kg but minimal at 300 mg/kg. 
Increases  in  the  brain  neurotransmitter  levels  (DA,  5-HT,  NE  and  metabolites)  were  more  evident 
when sapropterin was administered through striatal dialysis perfusion or intracisternally. These were 
marginally  affected  following  single  i.p.  administration  to  juvenile  or  adult  rats  with  no  dose 
correlation and not consistent signal throughout various rat ages. Following repeat i.p dosing at doses 
≥  10 mg/kg  starting  when  rats  were  7-day  old  the  degree  of  increase  in  total  intracerebral  biopterin 
content gradually decreased with age. Brain DA, 5-HT and NE and their metabolites increased in 7-
day old rats, but not in 14- or 21-day old, suggesting a higher CNS penetration in very young rats. 
the 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
• 
literature  concerning  secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  sapropterin 
A  review  of 
dihydrochloride  in  multiple  animal  models  of  cardiovascular  diseases  with  underlying  endothelial 
dysfunction  (associated  with  BH4  deficiency),  including  hypertension,  congestive  heart  failure  and 
diabetes not only indicated the absence of adverse secondary pharmacodynamic effects, but also that 
the  pharmacological  intervention  with  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  reduced  the  oxidative  stress  and 
resulted in a restoration of endothelial function in these models. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
• 
The majority  of the in vivo safety pharmacology studies were not performed in accordance with GLP 
principles. Taking into account that the studies were performed up to 1989, thus, before the ICHS7A 
guideline  was  published,  and  taking  into  account  the  clinical  experience  with  the  sapropterin 
8/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dihydrochloride  granule  formulation,  this  was  considered  acceptable.  However,  as  no  individual 
animal data were provided, the evaluation of the studies is hampered.  
Central nervous system 
The battery of tests aimed at assessing the effects of orally administered sapropterin dihydrochloride 
on  the  central  nervous  system  (motor  activity  and  coordination,  barbiturate-induced  sleep 
prolongation,  convulsions,  pain  and  body  temperature,  showed  no  major  findings  up  to  300 mg/kg, 
except for a significant prolongation of thiopental sodium-induced sleeping time and a slight increase 
in  muscular  tone  in  male  Wistar  rats  and  a  slight  increase  in  motor  activity  in  male  ddY  mice.    At 
doses  ranging  between  100  and  600  mg/kg  p.o.  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  showed  antidepressive, 
anxiolytic  and  ameliorative  effects  on  memory  and  learning  disorder  behavioural  tests  in  rodents, 
suggesting that brain CNS penetration may occur at these dosages. 
Cardiovascular and respiratory system 
Cardiovascular  safety  pharmacology  study  findings  were  minimal.  Since  the  IC50  for  the  effect  of 
sapropterin  on  hERG  potassium  current  was > 690 µM  which  far  exceeds  the  maximal  therapeutic 
plasma  concentration  at  the  highest  anticipated  clinical  dose  of  20 mg/kg,  it  can  be  concluded  that 
sapropterin does not block Ikr channels.  This is indicative of negligible risk for delayed ventricular 
repolarisation (QT interval prolongation) and torsades de pointes.  
No effects on the cardiovascular system (dogs by telemetry) or respiratory function parameters (rats, 
by  plethysmography)  were  noted  in  two  GLP-compliant  studies  after  single  oral  sapropterin 
administration  at  100 mg/kg  (dog)  and  225 mg/kg  (rat).  It  was  only  after  a  high  intravenous  dose 
(30 mg/kg) in anesthetized dogs that a significant decrease in respiration and heart rates (but with no 
changes in mean arterial blood pressure or ECG morphology) was observed. 
Other systems 
Other findings from the general (safety) pharmacology experiments consisted of an increased emesis 
in  dogs  at  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  doses  ≥  10 mg/kg  in  fasting  conditions  in  a  single  study. 
However, emesis was not observed in subsequent dog safety pharmacology studies at oral doses of up 
to 100 mg/kg but in fed conditions.  
No  other  effects  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  have  been  observed  in  pharmacology  experiments 
aimed at evaluating the autonomic nervous, gastrointestinal and genitor-urinary systems.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
BH4 acts to enhance nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) activity and could have a synergistic effect with 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors, such as sildenafil, on vasorelaxation. Animal studies do 
not, however, indicate interaction between sildenafil and sapropterin.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Similarities exist in the pharmacokinetic profile of sapropterin dihydrochloride across the species 
studied (mouse, rat, rabbit and monkey) and with the limited clinical pharmacokinetic studies. 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride and its metabolites were measured in all species either by HPLC and/or 
mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay. 
Based on PK studies and allometric scaling in rats and cynomolgus monkeys, pharmacokinetic 
parameters can be summarised as below. 
Table: Exposures after a single oral dose in the human, rat & monkey: 
Study 
PHN-104- 
PK-SR 
PHN-110- 
PK-SR 
Rat 
Cynomolgus 
Monkey 
Human2 
P1501 
BW1 
(kg) 
Dose 
(mg) 
Dose/BW 
(mg/kg) 
tmax 
(h) 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
AUC 
(ng/mL/h) 
Cmax/Dose 
(ng/mL/mg/kg) 
AUC/Dose 
(ng/mL/h/mg/kg) 
0.25 
2.5 
4 
70 
40 
100 
200 
10 
10 
1.43 
2.86 
2.0 
2.9 
3.1 
2.6 
75 
265 
344 
6.8 
12.5 
1300 
59.8 
92.0 
7.5 
34.4 
4.8 
4.4 
26.5 
130.0 
41.9 
32.2 
         1BW: body weight 
        2 Phase I study of sapropterin hydrochloride – single dose and multiple dose studies 
9/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rat model is considered to be appropriate for the toxicology studies. 
However,  there  are  no  pharmacokinetic  data,  including  metabolism  and  tissue  distribution  data,  to 
support the use of marmoset monkeys in the toxicology studies and as such safety margins cannot be 
calculated in this species. 
Absorption 
Absorption studies were performed in rats, cynomolgus monkeys, mice and pregnant rabbits by both 
i.v. and p.o. routes. Tmax values ranging between 1-3 hours were comparable to that found in human 
studies.  The half-lives were 1.2, 1.1 and 1.4 h in mice, rats and monkeys, respectively which were 
slightly lower than those obtained in human fasting and non-fasting studies (t½ ~ 3-4.8 h).  
In the rat, sapropterin dihydrochloride was mainly absorbed through the small intestine and unlike 
human data, food had no effect on its pharmacokinetic profile.  
AUC in the majority of studies, increased with dose but in a slightly less than dose-proportional 
manner.  
The absolute bioavailability was 7-12 % in 6 week old rats and ~9 % in cynomolgus monkeys but is 
unknown for humans. Comparable results were observed between single and repeat oral dosing, 
indicating that there was no accumulation or persistence. 
Total biopterin (BP) levels were higher in 2 week vs. 6 week old rats thus highlighting the potential 
higher degree of absorption of sapropterin dihydrochloride from the gastrointestinal tract of younger 
animals.  
Distribution 
Biodistribution studies revealed that in rats, once absorbed, sapropterin dihydrochloride is distributed 
mainly into the liver, adrenals (consistent with the sites where tetrahydrobiopterin acts as a coenzyme 
for aromatic amino acid hydroxylases) and kidneys (the main excretory organ). 
Murine studies demonstrate that infused [14C](6R)-BH4 localises primarily to liver and kidney in 
postnatal animals, with minimal uptake into brain, adrenal medulla or bone marrow. This distribution 
was hypothesised to reflect the tissue distribution of PAH, whereas tissues containing tyrosine and 
tryptophan hydroxylases and significant endogenous BH4 synthesis (e.g. adrenal) had relatively little 
uptake of exogenously administered BH4. In these same studies, the oxidised product, biopterin, did 
not accumulate in any tissue and was rapidly excreted. The tissue distribution was apparently age-
dependent, with no tissue uptake into liver or the inner cortex of the kidney in newborn (5-7 day old) 
mice, paralleling the maturation of PAH expression in these tissues. In postnatal mice, [14C]BH4 
apparently did not significantly cross the blood brain barrier. However, BH4 was found to cross the 
placenta and distribute throughout foetal tissues, including foetal brain and adrenal in mice. 
Binding of BP to plasma proteins is low in rat and human plasma, indicating a very low potential for 
sapropterin dihydrochloride to displace other agents from plasma proteins. Red blood cell partitioning 
experiments  in  rats  and  monkeys  showed  that  at  concentrations  exceeding  the  erythrocyte  binding 
capacity, the concentration of total BP in plasma increase linearly. 
Total  BP  concentration  was  increased  in  fetus  and  in  milk  after  i.v.  but  not  p.o.  administration  of 
sapropterin dihydrochloride at 10 mg/kg in pregnant rats. 
Metabolism 
Although  no  formal  metabolism  studies  were  performed  in  the  clinic,  the  rat  and  human  catabolic 
pathways  of  tetrahydrobiopterin  are  thought  to  be  very  similar  based  on  scientific  literature. 
Tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4 [presumed unchanged drug]), dihydrobiopterin (DHBP), biopterin (BP), 
pterin  (PT),  and  6-hydroxylumazine  (6-OH-Lu)  were  the  main  urinary  metabolites  detected  in  rats 
which were comparable to those found in humans except for lumazine metabolites (the human liver is 
not  reported  to  express  the  enzyme  involved  in  the  formation  of  these  metabolites).  Repeated 
administration  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  did  not  up-regulate  CYP-dependent  drug-metabolising 
enzymes in the liver microsomes.  
Excretion 
Rat excretion studies showed that 72 h after a single oral administration about 75% of the radioactive 
dose  administered  (3H-sapropterin  dihydrochloride)  was  excreted  in  faeces  and  7%  in  urine.  In 
10/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
Cynomolgus monkeys 24 h after a single oral administration of sapropterin dihydrochloride 2.3% of 
the  dose  was excreted in  urine  as  total  biopterins.  An  additional  study  in  rats  with  the  radiolabelled 
compound indicated that the biliary route plays a minor role in elimination. It is considered that the 
use  of  a  tritium  label  to  evaluate  the  quantitative  excretion  profile  of  BP  in  this  instance  cannot  be 
considered a quantitative or indeed a reliable method given that it does not discriminate between 3H2O 
or  3H-sapropterin dihydrochloride.  However, taking into account the results of a dedicated i.v. study 
in  rats  with  the  unlabelled  compound  (the  dose  was  almost  completely  excreted  in  urine  either  as 
unchanged  drug  or  metabolites  within  6 h  of  dosing) it can be  concluded  that  the  majority  of  orally 
administered sapropterin dihydrochloride will be excreted in faeces due to limited absorption from the 
gastro-intestinal tract. The fraction absorbed is mostly excreted with the urine. 
Toxicology 
The toxicology of sapropterin dihydrochloride was characterised in a series of acute (single–dose), 
repeat–dose, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental, juvenile, antigenicity, and 
metabolite toxicity studies. These studies were conducted in five different species (mouse, rat, rabbit, 
marmoset, and guinea pig), via four routes of administration (oral [p.o.], subcutaneous [s.c.], 
intravenous [i.v.], and intraperitoneal [i.p.]). All pivotal toxicology studies were conducted in 
accordance with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity studies of sapropterin dihydrochloride via p.o, i.v., and s.c administrations were 
performed  in  adult  mice,  rats  and  marmosets.    In  rats,  following  p.o.  administration  of  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride, histopathological findings included atrophy of the glandular and forestomach (≥2500 
mg/kg),  findings  that  could  not  be  seen  following  i.v.  or  s.c.  administration.  There  were  no  kidney 
changes.  In  marmoset  monkeys,  degenerative  changes  in  renal  tubules  were  observed  at  doses  ≥ 
1’000 mg/kg p.o. and ≥  150 mg/kg s.c. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  effects  resulting  from  the  long-term  oral  administration  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  were 
evaluated through two 13- and 52-week repeated-dose toxicity studies performed in rats and marmoset 
monkeys. 
The systemic safety profile of sapropterin dihydrochloride was assessed in the rat and the marmoset 
monkey. The rat was chosen based on the early pharmacological studies demonstrating the ability of 
oral  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  to  revert  the  induced  HPA  to  control  values.  The  choice  of  the 
marmoset monkeys was based on the finding of an increased total BP concentration in the CSF upon 
oral sapropterin dihydrochloride administration at doses not associated to systemic toxic effects. This 
species allowed neurological examination to be conducted at various timepoints within the toxicology 
studies.  
The 52-week rat repeat dose toxicity study demonstrated slight renal changes of unknown mechanism 
(basophilic  change  in  collecting  tubules)  at  the  highest  dose  level  (400  mg/kg).  Consequently  the 
NOAEL is set at 40 mg/kg/day. 
In  the  2-year  rat  carcinogenicity  study,  treatment-related  non-neoplastic  lesions  identified  also  the 
kidney  as  target  organ  of  toxicity.  Lesions  included  distended  renal  papillary  tubules  found  in  7/60 
females  and  4/60  males that  received  250 mg/kg/day  and in  1/32  males that received  25 mg/kg/day. 
None of the control animals was affected; the incidence was statistically significant in females treated 
at  250 mg/kg/day.  Additional  non-neoplastic  lesions  occurring  only  in  the  high  dose  group  (250 
mg/kg/day) include: acute ascending pyelonephritis (1/60 M and 3/60 F); basophilic cortical tubules 
(1/60  F),  dilated  cortical  tubules  (4/60  F)  and  pigment  deposition in  cortical  tubular  cells  (1/60 M).  
The predominance of findings in females is not in favour of an exacerbation of the age-related chronic 
progressive  nephropathy.  These  lesions  most  probably  correspond  to  an  exacerbation  of  the  kidney 
changes that are observed in the rat repeat dose toxicity studies (slight basophilic changes).  
In  the  repeat  dose  studies  in  marmosets,  all  findings  were  not  considered  to  be  toxicologically 
significant.  
11/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Genotoxicity 
Although Sapropterin dihydrochloride produced a positive result in bacterial gene mutation assays and 
in  the  chromosomal  aberration  test  in  CHL  and  CHO  cells,  it  did  not  prove  to  be  mutagenic  when 
assessed in human peripheral blood lymphocytes. Additionally, the potential of orally (both single and 
repeat  dose)  administered  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  to  induce  micronuclei  formation  in  bone 
marrow progenitor cells in mice also proved negative. The in vitro positive results are possibly related 
to the auto-oxydation of sapropterin, generating reactive oxygen species such as hydrogen peroxide (as 
seen with other anti-oxydants) which is not the case in vivo or to more efficient protective mechanisms 
and high levels of catalase in human peripheral blood lymphocytes cultures. 
Overall, with the plasma exposure in these in vivo tests after repeat dosing being up to 45 times higher 
than human exposure, the biological significance of these positive in vitro findings is doubtful. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Oral  carcinogenicity  studies  conducted  in  mice  and  rats  indicated  no  potential  of  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride  to  induce  the  formation  of  either  neoplastic  or  hyperplastic  lesions.  The  higher 
incidence  of benign  phaeochromocytomas  of  the  adrenal  medulla  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  in 
the  250 mg/kg/day  and  80  mg/kg/day  dose  groups  compared  with  the  control  group  was  not 
considered to represent evidence of an oncogenic potential since it was observed in one sex only, the 
incidence  of  malignant  phaeochromocytoma  was  unaffected  and  the  incidence  is  well  within  the 
historical control range of the testing facility while it was unusually low in the vehicle-treated male 
animals  (1/60,  1.7  %).  No  increased  incidence  of  adrenal  hyperplasia  was  observed  in  any  of  the 
rodent carcinogenicity studies, or in the chronic studies in rats and marmosets. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive toxicity assessment was performed in the both rats and rabbits via oral administration, 
the  full  set  of  reproductive  and  developmental  studies  were  performed  in  the  rat  with  an  additional 
embryo-fetal developmental study performed in the rabbit.  
Following  administration  of  Sapropterin  dihydrochloride  no  effects  were  observed  in  any  of  the 
parameters  examined  in  the  mothers  or  offspring  (foetuses  or  neonates)  at  dose  levels  up  to  400 
mg/kg/day in the rat, with the exception of a slight but significant reduction in the number of viable 
pups at the high dose.  This was not confirmed in the rabbit embryofoetal development study.  The 
NOAEL  in  the  rat  is  considered  to  be  40  mg/kg/day.    In  the  rabbit  at  the  highest  dose  tested  (600 
mg/kg/day)there  was  an  observed 
the  number  of  external  malformations 
(holoprosencephaly)  skeletal  abnormalities  but  these  increases  were  not  found  to  be  significant  and 
were found in control animals albeit at a lower incidence. The NOAEL in the rabbit was considered to 
be 60 mg/kg/day for the mothers and embryofoetal development. 
increase 
in 
None  of  the  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  included  toxicokinetic  evaluations.  A 
bridging pharmacokinetic study has been performed only in pregnant NZW rabbits and safety margins 
for embryofoetal development are more than 20-fold.  Due to the lack of experimental toxicokinetic 
analysis  in  the  pregnant  rat  no  assessment  can  be  provided  with  respect  to  safety  margins  at  the 
observed  NOAEL  levels. The pharmacokinetic  data were  obtained in  the  rat following  dosing  at  10 
and 100 mg/kg and as such exposure levels at 400 mg/kg/day can not be commented upon.  
Pharmacokinetic studies in late-stage pregnant rat (GD 18-20) and during lactation confirm that 2 – 
2.5  hr  post  oral  administration  of  10  mg/kg  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride,  plasma  exposures  were 
comparable  to  that  of  male  rats  given  the  same  dose  (PHN-104-PK-SR).  The  absence  of  gender 
differences  in  absorption  were  also  demonstrated  by  using  the  tritium-labelled  compound.  Foetal 
absorption  was  only  seen  following  i.v.  administration  of  10  mg/kg.dose.    Administration  of  an  i.v. 
dose of 10 mg/kg, 7 days after delivery, demonstrated about a 3-fold increase in milk exposure.  The 
absence of milk or foetal exposure following p.o. dosing of 10 mg/kg sapropterin dihydrochloride is 
considered  to  be  related  to  the  low  maternal  exposure  levels.    The  i.v.  exposure  levels  are  more 
comparable to the exposures achieved at higher p.o. dose levels. 
12/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
No toxicokinetic assessment was carried out with any of the repeat dose studies in rat and marmoset as 
per the ICH S3A guideline.  
Pharmacokinetic data performed in the rat, namely 10 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg, do not compare with 
doses used in the toxicity studies and in the marmoset, toxicokinetic data are lacking. Thus no dose 
relationship has been ascribed to the systemic exposure achieved in the animals to the doses used in 
the toxicity studies. 
However, a safety margin of 2.6 was estimated using the extrapolated (rat and human) AUCs, the 
same safety margin can be estimated based on the chronic NOAEL (320 mg/kg) in marmosets 
corrected by allometric scaling and the highest human therapeutic dose. This could represent a 
conservative approach since exposure in marmosets at NOAEL is estimated to be higher than the 
exposure in rats at the NOAEL. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Juvenile toxicity 
A single acute dose study in mice and 2 single and repeat dose studies in the rat were performed as 
part of the juvenile oral toxicity package. Acute studies were performed in 7-21-day old rats and mice. 
The  LD50  in  7-day  old  rats  was  determined  to  be  1108  and  1445  mg/kg  in  males  and  females 
respectively.  At  necropsy  the  only  finding  of  note  was  haemorrhage  throughout  the  glandular 
stomach  at doses above 1680 mg/kg, this findings was considered to be likely due to the large dose 
volume and acidity (pH 0.5- 1.0) of the solution rather than any pharmacological action. In rats 21-
days old the LD50 were consistently higher, 2278 and 2287 mg/kg for male and female mice and 2930 
and 3222 mg/kg for male and female rats. It was considered that the difference in LD50 values was 
due  to  higher  absorption  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  in  younger  animals,  as  observed  in  the 
pharmacokinetic studies.   
Following  2-week  repeat  dosing  in  pre-weaned  rats  a  significant  decrease  in  body  weight  gain  was 
observed  at  the  high  dose  (320  mg/kg/day)  together  with  an  increased  frequency  and  degree  (from 
very  slight  to  slight)  of  basophilic  changes,  dilation  of  the  kidney  tubules  and  thickening  of  the 
Bowmans capsule. The NOAEL was considered to be 80 mg/kg/day. In the 4-week repeat dose study 
in  21-day  old  rats  no  significant  changes  were  observed  in  any  of  the  measured  parameters  and the 
NOAEL  was  considered  to  be  500  mg/kg/day.  Although  such  data  may  suggest  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride as being potentially more toxic in early postnatal age, this was most likely due to the 
higher absorption rate of sapropterin dihydrochloride through the gastrointestinal tract of animals of 
two-weeks of age and younger compared to 6-week old rats; target organs of toxicity were consistent 
with those already identified in the studies in adult animals. 
Antigenicity-allergenicity 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride did not demonstrate allergenic or antigenic potential in mouse and guinea 
pig models designed to detect immunoglobulin E and anaphylactoid-type responses. 
Metabolites 
Regarding  the  metabolites  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride,  dedicated  safety  experiments  (including 
safety  pharmacology  and  acute  toxicity)  have  been  conducted  on  both  dihydrobiopterin  and  pterin. 
Dihydrobiopterin  and  pterin  were  examined  for  pharmacologic  effects  in  mice  (thiopental-induced 
sleep,  p.o.),  rats  (anxiolytic  effect,  p.o.)  and  dogs  (cardiovascular  system  and  respiratory  rate,  i.v.) 
models. Each substance showed no effect at doses of 100 or 300 mg/kg (p.o.) or at a dose of 30 mg/kg 
(i.v). In single dose toxicity studies conducted in mice no acute toxic effect (including death) occurred 
when dihydrobiopterin and pterin were administered orally at doses at least 2.5-fold higher than the 
oral LD50 of sapropterin dihydrochloride. 
Impurities 
For the drug substance batches used in the non-clinical studies, the purity levels of Biopterin, BH2, R-
THBL,  S-BH4  and  THP  were  not  reported.  Therefore,  all  release  specifications  will  be  reviewed 
periodically and revised to below the ICH qualification threshold limit of >0.15% where possible and 
if  justified  by  the  accumulated  data.  The  applicant  committed  to  perform  the  above  as  a  follow-up 
measure. 
13/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
No excipients were identified in the proposed drug product formulation that could represent a safety 
risk  to  humans.  All  of  them  (mannitol,  crospovidone,  dibasic  calcium  phosphate,  ascorbic  acid, 
sodium stearylfumarate, riboflavin) comply with the EU pharmacopoeia and none represents a novelty 
in the pharmaceutical field or may pose any undue risk for the intended patient population. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
A  PECsurface  water  of  0.0022  and  0.0060  (cid:31)g/L  was  calculated  using  a  refined  Fpen  of  0.00056%  & 
0.00157%  and  a  DOSEai  value  of  768  mg.    Therefore  the  PECsurface  water  is  below  the  0.01  (cid:31)g/L 
threshold concentration. Thus sapropterin is unlikely to pose a risk to the environment.   
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride is a synthetic version of 6R-BH4, the naturally occurring cofactor of 
hydroxylases for phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan. In patients with PKU, the role of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride is to enable endogenous PAH activity and to partially restore oxidative metabolism of 
phenylalanine, resulting in decreased blood phenylalanine levels in PKU patients. In patients with 
BH4 deficiency, sapropterin dihydrochloride is proposed to restore endogenous PAH activity by 
providing an exogenous source of the missing cofactor. 
As there are no appropriate animal models for HPA due to PKU, non-clinical primary 
pharmacodynamic studies were conduced in normal rodents where HPA was induced by administering 
a BH4 biosynthesis inhibitor. Such studies demonstrated that 6R-BH4 supplementation by systemic 
route can reverse the effects of inhibitors of the BH4 biosysnthesis pathway. 
Similarities exist in the pharmacokinetic profile of sapropterin dihydrochloride across the species 
studied (mouse, rat, rabbit and monkey) and with the limited clinical pharmacokinetic studies. 
The absolute bioavailability was 7-12 % in 6 week old rats and ~9 % in cynomolgus monkeys but is 
unknown for humans. Although no formal metabolism studies were performed in the clinic, the rat and 
human catabolic pathways of tetrahydrobiopterin are thought to be very similar based on scientific 
literature. Repeated administration of sapropterin dihydrochloride did not up-regulate CYP-dependent 
drug-metabolising enzymes in the liver microsomes. The majority of orally administered sapropterin 
dihydrochloride is excreted in faeces due to limited absorption from the gastro-intestinal tract. The 
fraction absorbed is mostly excreted with the urine. 
The kidney was identified as a target organ of toxicity in the rat in single-dose and repeat-dose studies 
(slight tubular basophilia) at doses resulting in very low safety margins compared to the human 
exposure. The Applicant has agreed to monitor potential reports on kidney findings in the post-
approval commitments as well as in individual case safety reports in context of routine 
pharmacovigilance activities outlinedin the risk management plan. 
Juvenile animal data suggest that sapropterin dihydrochloride may be potentially more toxic in early 
postnatal age, but this was most likely due to the higher absorption of sapropterin dihydrochloride in 
younger animals. 
There was no developmental or embryofoetal toxicity in rats and rabbits. 
Oral carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats indicated no potential of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride to induce the formation of either neoplastic or hyperplastic lesions. 
Sapropterin is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
14/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
The clinical pharmacology studies were designed to demonstrate both the pharmacodynamic effect of 
a single oral dose of sapropterin dihydrochloride on blood phenylalanine levels over 24 hours in PKU 
patients (PKU-001 Sub-study 01, PKU-004 Sub-study 01), and the PK of blood sapropterin 
dihydrochloride levels following the oral administration of sapropterin dihydrochloride at three 
different daily doses (PKU-004 Sub-study 02). The dose effect of sapropterin dihydrochloride at 
5 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, and then 10 mg/kg on the change in blood phenylalanine levels from baseline at 
the end of consecutive 2-week dosing periods was also assessed. All of the PKU clinical studies with 
sapropterin dihydrochloride immediate release tablets were conducted using a once-daily dose. 
The main clinical trials with sapropterin dihydrochloride included two pivotal, randomised, placebo-
controlled, Phase 3 studies: PKU-003 and PKU-006 (Part 2). 
The overall development plan is depicted in the diagram below: 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of sapropterin dihydrochloride was evaluated in healthy subjects in four 
Phase I studies (three studies with sapropterin dihydrochloride granules, and one Phase I study with 
sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets). 
The pharmacokinetics of sapropterin dihydrochloride have also been independently reported in two 
publications using a non-pharmaceutical grade preparation.  
The initial Phase I pharmacokinetic study of the 2.5% and 10% granule formulations (study number 
P1501), was conducted by Suntory in 1985, according to the acceptable standards appropriate at that 
time. All other sponsored studies with granule formulations (FB1602, FB1701) were conducted in 
accordance with the Japanese good clinical practice regulations in effect at that time, and the more 
recent study with sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets (PKU-005) in accordance with the ICH E6 
guideline on Good Clinical Practice (GCP). 
A summary of the clinical pharmacokinetic studies is shown in the following 2 tables:  
Phase I Studies Evaluating Sapropterin Dihydrochloride Granules in Healthy Volunteers 
Study No./ 
Period 
P1501 
Nov–Dec 1985 
Type of 
Study 
Phase I 
Open-
label 
Summary of Objectives 
Assess tolerability and 
pharmacokinetics of single 
and multiple doses 
FB1602 
Aug–Sept 
1996 
Phase I 
Single-
blind 
Assess safety and 
pharmacokinetics of a 7-day 
multiple-dose regimen 
FB1701 
March 1997 
Phase I 
Open-
label 
Assess safety of a 7-day 
multiple-dose regimen with 
10% granules 
Confirm plasma biopterin 
concentrations on Day 1 of 
drug administration 
Sapropterin Dosage and 
Regimen 
2.5% granules 
Single-dose: 
100 mg and 200 mg p.o. 
Multiple-dose: 100 mg p.o. 
TID x 7 days 
2.5% granules 
200 mg p.o. 
TID x 7 days 
Study Subjects 
Healthy adult male 
volunteers 
sapropterin: 
N=6 (single-dose) 
N=6 (multiple dose) 
Healthy adult male 
volunteers 
sapropterin: N=6 
Placebo: N=2 
10% granules 
200 mg p.o. 
TID x 7 days 
Healthy adult male 
volunteers 
sapropterin: N=6 
Phase I Studies Evaluating Sapropterin Dihydrochloride Tablets in Healthy Volunteers 
15/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Absorption  
The pharmacokinetics of sapropterin dihydrochloride in patients with PKU were examined in 
PKU-004 Sub-study 02.The results showed that sapropterin dihydrochloride is rapidly absorbed after a 
short initial time lag, with a bi-exponential decline following attainment of peak levels, with 
pharmacokinetics following a 2-compartment, first-order input model with first-order elimination.  
Bioavailability  of  sapropterin  is  documented  in  an  open-label,  randomised,  4-treatment,  4-sequence, 
4-period,  crossover  single  dose  study  (PKU-005)  in  healthy  volunteers  in  a  fasted  and  fed  state. 
Absorption  under  fasted  conditions  was  equivalent  when  dissolved  in  either  water  or  orange  juice. 
After  a  high  fat  high  calorie  meal,  absorption  was  increased  to  a  greater  degree  after  dissolution  in 
water,  compared  to  dissolution  in  orange  juice.  In  the  clinical  trials,  sapropterin  was  dissolved  in 
water,  apple  or  orange  juice  in  PKU-003  or  in  PKU-006,  in  120-240ml  of  water  or  apple  juice  (no 
orange  juice).  Therefore,  it  is  mentioned  in  the  SPC  (section  4.2)  that  sapropterin  should  be 
administered “with a meal as single daily dose, at the same time each day, preferably in the morning.” 
The absolute bioavailability of sapropterin was not studied in humans but pre-clinical studies suggest 
that the absolute bioavailability in humans may be similar to the rat and the monkey, i.e. ranging from 
7 to 10%. 
The mean terminal half-life was 6.69 hours (range 3.91 to 16.6 hours). 
Distribution 
• 
Evidence of distribution is based on murine studies (See also non-clinical section). These studies 
demonstrate that intravenous BH4 distributes to tissues almost completely within minutes, with 
negligible urinary excretion of intact BH4. 
Metabolism  
• 
No special metabolic studies were performed. 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride is a synthetic version of the naturally occurring cofactor, 6R-BH4, and 
the metabolic fate is assumed to be as for the naturally occurring cofactor.  
Presumably, a large proportion of the BH4 serving as a cofactor for aromatic amino acid hydroxylases 
enters the BH4 regeneration pathway. Consistent with this assumption, following oral administration 
of BH4 in healthy individuals, <10% is recovered as pterin or lumazine metabolites in urine and 
faeces, implying substantial regeneration and/or tissue uptake and metabolism. From the bloodstream, 
exogenously administered BH4 must then transit the cell membrane to function as a co-factor for the 
intracellular aromatic amino acid hydroxylases. 
Excretion 
• 
Evidence of excretion is based only on murine studies which showed that the oxidised product, 
biopterin, did not accumulate in any tissue and was rapidly excreted. 
16/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
• 
Assuming 4 half-lives for clearance, coverage is estimated to be 26.8 hours, which is considered to 
support once-daily dosing. Results also showed that there was little accumulation with daily doses 
even at the highest dose regimen. 
• 
Special populations 
No studies have been performed in patients with either renal or hepatic insufficiency. This is reflected 
in the SPC. 
Paediatric patients 
Based on the results of the animal studies, age-related variability in absorption could result in 
increased sensitivity to sapropterin in younger children which could result in a greater degree of dose-
related reduction in blood phenylalanine levels. Therefore, it is recommended in the SPC that blood 
phenylalanine and tyrosine levels should be tested, particularly in children, one to two weeks after 
each dose adjustment and monitored frequently thereafter, under the direction of the treating 
physician. 
Based on population PK analyses (PKU-004 Substudy 02) and published studies, the sapropterin dose 
can be adjusted in children of all ages within the range of 5 to 20 mg/kg per day to achieve blood Phe 
control. 
Many  of  the  patients  in  the  studies  were  children  but  the  use  of,  or  effects  of,  sapropterin  in  those 
under the age of 4 years is not documented. Therefore, the use in children under the age of 4 is not 
recommended as reflected in the SPC. Further data will be collected in the post-marketing phase as a 
follow-up measure.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
• 
Drug interaction studies were not performed in part due to the rarity of HPA. 
However, in pre-clinical repeat dose studies in rats, no induction of hepatic CYP450 enzymes was 
observed. 
Folic acid and vitamin B12 may increase BH4 levels; although the mechanisms are not completely 
defined. Ascorbic acid (e.g. Vitamin C) has been shown to prevent the auto-oxidation of BH4 to BH2. 
Inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) such as methotrexate, aminopterin or trimethoprim, may 
also inhibit the activity of DHPR and theoretically prevent salvage of BH4.  
17/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Sapropterin is a synthetic version of the naturally occurring 6R-BH4, which is a cofactor of the 
hydroxylases for phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan. 
Sapropterin acts by increasing the overall level of PAH activity, partially restoring normal physiologic 
phenylalanine  oxidative  capacity,  and  reducing  blood  phenylalanine  concentrations  in  PKU  patients 
responsive  to  6R-BH4.  It  has  been  proposed  that  6R-BH4  may  help  stabilise  PAH  proteins, 
compensate  for  the  decreased  affinity  of  mutant  PAH  for  6R-BH4,  act  as  a  chaperone  to  facilitate 
folding and preservation of functional PAH Tetramers or stimulate an increase in catalytic activity by 
increasing the BH4 concentration.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride has a plasma half-life of approximately 3-5 hours, however the 
pharmacodynamics activity over 24 hours, as assessed as blood phenylalanine decrease after once 
daily administration of sapropterin dihydrochloride has been observed. 
Demonstration  of  a  specific  response  to  sapropterin  was  a  requirement  to  enter  the  pivotal  studies. 
Pharmacodynamic  response  to  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  was  examined  over  a  24-hour  period  in 
PKU-004 Sub-study 01, conducted between the 6 and 10 week visits of PKU-004, when all subjects 
were  maintained  on a  daily  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  dose of  10  mg/kg/day.  Of  the  12  subjects  8 
had a blood phenylalanine level at the first sub-study time point that was ≥30% lower than their mean 
Week 0 value of 718.3±168.3 µmol/L. This degree of percent decrease in blood phenylalanine level 
was  selected  as  a  criterion  for  pharmacodynamic  response.  For  these  8  subjects,  the  blood 
phenylalanine  level  at  the  first  sub-study  time  point  was  446.6±108.8 µmol/L,  declining  to 
378.8±139.8 µmol/L at 4 pm and returning to 438.8±133.1 µmol/L at 8 am, 24 hours after the previous 
dose  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride.  These  data  suggest  a  stable  reduction  of  blood  phenylalanine 
levels  over  a  24  hour  dose  interval,    and  provide  support  for  once-daily  dosing  of  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride in patients with HPA due to PKU. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
BH4 acts to enhance nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) activity and could have a synergistic effect with 
pharmacodynamicsE5 inhibitors, such as sildenafil, on vasorelaxation. Animal studies do not, 
however, indicate interaction between sildenafil and sapropterin.  
Synergism may also theoretically occur with antihypertensive agents, such as minoxidil, that act as a 
nitric oxide agonist as part of their mechanism of action. Caution about these possible interactions is 
mentioned in the SPC (section 4.5). 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development program for sapropterin dihydrochloride included two pivotal, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, Phase 3 studies: PKU-003 and PKU-006 (Part 2). For these trials, reduction in 
blood phenylalanine levels as compared to placebo control was used as a clinical surrogate efficacy 
endpoint for prevention of HPA-related neurotoxicity, and this was accepted in the CHMP SAWG 
protocol assistance for the clinical development program (EMEA/174572/2205).  
Both  pivotal  studies  were  preceded  by  short-term  -  PKU-001  and  PKU-006  (Part  1)  -  open-label 
treatment  response  studies  to  identify  responders  to  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  treatment,  thereby 
reducing the likelihood of not detecting a true response due to the rarity of the condition. 
In addition, PKU-004 was a long term open label study looking at safety and tolerability of 3 doses of 
5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day of sapropterin. 
18/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. of Subjects Exposed: 
Study 
Populati
on 
Study 
Design 
Sapropterin 
dihydrochloride 
tablets –Dose 
and Regimen 
Sapropterin 
dihydrochlori
de Placebo 
Placebo 
PKU  
Phase 
3Double-
blind 
10 mg/kg/day PO 
x 6 weeks  
41 
PKU 
Phase 3 
Double-
blind 
20 mg/kg/day PO 
x 10 weeks  
33 
PKU  
Phase 2 
Openlabel 
10 mg/kg/day PO 
x 8 days  
489  
PKU  
Phase 3 
Openlabel 
5-20 mg/kg/day 
PO x 22 weeks  
80  
PKU  
Phase 3 
Openlabel 
20 mg/kg/day PO 
x8 days  
90  
47 
12 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Summary table of Clinical trials  
Study  
Title 
Placebo-Controlled Clinical Studies in PKU 
PKU-003 
PKU-006 
Part 2 
A Phase 3, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-
Controlled Study to Evaluate 
the Safety and Efficacy of 
Phenoptin™ (sapropterin 
dihydrochloride) 1 in Subjects 
with Phenylketonuria 
A Phase 3, Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-blind, 
Placebo-Controlled Study to 
Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of Phenoptin™ 
(sapropterin dihydrochloride) 1 
20 mg/kg/day to Increase 
Phenylalanine Tolerance in 
Phenylketonuric Children on a 
Phenylalanine-restricted Diet 
Open-Label Clinical Studies in PKU 
PKU-001 
PKU-004 
PKU-006 
Part 1 
A Phase 2, Multicenter, Open-
Label Study to Evaluate the 
Response to and Safety of an 8-
Day Course of Phenoptin™ 
(sapropterin dihydrochloride)1 
Treatment in Subjects with 
Phenylketonuria Who Have 
Elevated Phenylalanine Levels 
A Phase 3, Multicenter, Open-
Label Extension Study of 
Phenoptin™ (sapropterin 
dihydrochloride) 1 in Subjects 
with Phenylketonuria Who Have 
Elevated Phenylalanine Levels  
A Phase 3, Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-blind, 
Placebo-Controlled Study to 
Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy 
of Phenoptin™ (sapropterin 
dihydrochloride)1 20 mg/kg/day 
to Increase Phenylalanine 
Tolerance in Phenylketonuric 
Children on a Phenylalanine-
restricted Diet 
A diagram of these clinical trials is depicted below: 
19/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population 1:
Age ≥8 years. Phe uncontrolled
Population 2:
Age 4-12 years. Phe controlled
PKU-006 Part 1: open-label
20 mg/kg/day, 8 days 
Achieved ≥30% 
reduction and blood 
Phe ≤300 µmol/L
Washout period min 1 week
PKU-006 Part 2: 
Placebo, 10 weeks 
PKU-006 Part 2: 
Study drug, 
20 mg/kg/day, 
10 weeks 
PKU-001: open-label, 10mg/kg/day, 8 days
Achieved ≥30% reduction 
(or ≥28%, but <30% reduction,
and received exemption)
Washout period min 1 week
PKU-003: Placebo, 
6 weeks
PKU-003: Study Drug, 
10 mg/kg/day, 6 weeks
PKU-004 : open-label, three 2-week courses of study 
drug (5, 20, 10 mg/kg/day, respectively), 
followed by 4 weeks of 10 mg/kg/day
Then assigned to fixed doses:
Study drug, 
5 mg/kg/day, 
12 weeks
Study drug, 
10 mg/kg/day, 
12 weeks
Study drug, 
20mg/kg/day, 
12 weeks
PKU-008: Study drug dose was last received in PKU-004 or PKU-006 
•  Dose response studies 
Methods 
Two short-term open-label treatment response studies (PKU-001 and PKU-006 -Part 1) were 
performed to identify responders to sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment. In addition, PKU-004 was 
a long term open label study looking at safety and tolerability of 3 doses of 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day of 
sapropterin. 
The 10mg/kg/day dose in PKU-001 was selected on the basis that publications had documented the 
fact that doses of between 7.5 and 20mg/kg had been administered as a loading doses to more than 
1900 subjects; 10 published studies evaluating a total of 28 subjects with PKU had shown that 
10mg/kg/day was the most frequently used 6R-BH4 dosage that produced sustained reduction in blood 
phenylalanine levels. 
The 20mg/kg/day dose in PKU-006 was selected on the basis that publications had documented the 
fact that doses of between 7.5 and 20mg/kg had been administered as a loading doses to more than 
1900 subjects; studies have provided evidence for adequate long term safety of the dose. 
PKU-004 was a long term open label study looking at safety and tolerability of three two week 
courses of 5, 20 and then 10 mg/kg/day followed by 4 weeks of 10 mg/kg/day and then assigning of 
patients (on the basis of week 2 and week 6 phenylalanine levels and using a protocol algorithm) to 
fixed doses of 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day of sapropterin from week 10 to week 22. 
Primary endpoints were to assess safety and tolerability but secondary endpoints included assessment 
of safety and tolerability of 3 different doses  
Of the eighty (80) subjects enrolled, 39 subjects had received sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets and 
41 subjects had received placebo in PKU-003. 18% of patients had no treatment gap (PKU-003) and 
20/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
82% had treatment gaps of 63.2 days for the active in PKU-003 and 70 days for the placebo in PKU-
003. Subjects from the placebo arm had higher week 0 blood phenylalanine levels than patients treated 
with active but at the end of the 5mg/kg/day dosing period, mean blood levels were similar. 
All enrolled subjects received at least one dose of sapropterin dihydrochloride and completed the study 
through the Week 10 visit, and 79 subjects completed the study through the Week 22 visit. One 
subject was withdrawn at Week 16 due to non-compliance with study procedures. All subjects who 
enrolled in the study were included in the efficacy analyses. 
Results 
PKU-001 
Of the 485 subjects in PKU-001 who received at least one dose of study drug and who had blood 
phenylalanine level measurements at both Day 1 and Day 8, 96 (19.8%) were responders, as defined 
for the enrichment design of the program (i.e. ≥30% reduction in blood Phenylalanine level from Day 
1 to Day 8). The mean ± SD change and mean ± SD percent change in blood phenylalanine levels 
from Day 1 to Day 8 for responders were −391.8 ± 185.3 µmol/L and −50.0 ± 16.0%, respectively. 
When changes in blood phenylalanine levels from Day 1 to Day 8 for protocol-defined responders 
were examined by baseline blood phenylalanine level (<600 µmol/L, n=31; ≥600 µmol/L; n=65), the 
mean (± SD) changes were −286.3 ± 84.0 µmol/L for subjects with baseline levels <600 µmol/L and 
−442.0 ± 199.2 µmol/L for subject with baseline levels ≥600 µmol/L, while the mean ± SD percent 
changes were −55.3 ± 16.7% and −47.5 ± 15.2%, respectively. 
PKU-006 Part 1 
In this study, 90 subjects were enrolled and received at least one dose of sapropterin dihydrochloride. 
With the identification of 50 subjects who met eligibility criteria for PKU-006 Part 2, 46 were 
randomised 3:1 to sapropterin dihydrochloride or placebo treatment, and 45 received at least one dose 
of study drug (33 subjects received sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets, 12 subjects received placebo). 
Forty one subjects (32 sapropterin dihydrochloride, 9 placebo) completed Part 2 of the study by 
attending the Week 10 visit. 
Data for 89 of the 90 subjects (99%) enrolled in Part 1 of the study were used in the efficacy analyses. 
One subject was excluded from the analyses due to lack of a Day 8 blood phenylalanine measurement. 
PKU-004 
The comparison of 3 Daily Dose Levels (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg/day) on Reduction of Blood 
Phenylalanine was performed during the forced dose titration period in PKU-004 in support of the 
intended dose range.  
The Persistence of Effect of Sapropterin Dihydrochloride to reduce Blood Phenylalanine Levels was 
performed over the 22-week treatment period in PKU-004. A supportive analysis, compared to 
placebo, was performed for PKU-003. 
Primary Efficacy Results 
In the final fixed dose part of the study, of the 80 subjects, 6 (8%) received 5 mg/kg/day of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride, 37 (46%) received 10 mg/kg/day, and 37 (46%) received 20 mg/kg/day during the 
fixed dose period of PKU-004. The mean ± SD blood phenylalanine levels at the Weeks 12 - 22 visits 
ranged between 619.8 ± 371.0 and 652.2 ± 382.5 µmol/L. On average, subjects maintained a stable 
reduction in phenylalanine levels.  
Subjects who received a fixed sapropterin dihydrochloride dose of 10 or 20 mg/kg/day had 
comparable mean blood phenylalanine levels at Weeks 12, 16, 20, and 22 as they had previously had 
on the same dose in the forced dose-titration period. Although subjects who received the fixed 
5 mg/kg/day dose of sapropterin dihydrochloride had the lowest phenylalanine levels they manifested 
greater variability (possibly related to the small numbers of patients in this group) and did not have as 
low a mean blood phenylalanine level as observed for the 5 mg/kg/day dose during the forced-dose 
titration period. 
21/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy Results 
During the forced-dose titration period (Week 0 visit until Week 6 visit), the mean blood 
phenylalanine level observed at the end of each 2 week dosing period was inversely related to the dose 
of sapropterin dihydrochloride. At baseline (Week 0), the mean ± SD blood Phenylalanine level was 
844.0 ± 398.0 µmol/L. After sapropterin dihydrochloride dosing at 5 mg/kg/day (Week 2), 
10 mg/kg/day (Week 6), and 20 mg/kg/day (Week 4), mean ± SD blood Phenylalanine levels were 
743.9 ± 384.4 µmol/L, 639.9 ± 381.8 µmol/L, and 580.8 ± 398.8 µmol/L, respectively. For each pair-
wise comparison of the dose levels, the mean change in blood phenylalanine levels differed 
significantly (p<0.01). 
From the Week 6 visit to the Week 10 visit, during which all subjects received 10 mg/kg/day of 
sapropterin dihydrochloride, subjects maintained blood phenylalanine levels similar to those that 
occurred on the same dose during the dose titration period (Weeks 4 to 6), with a mean ± SD blood 
phenylalanine level at Week 10 of 645.2 ± 393.4 µmol/L. 
Overall, the changes in phenylalanine levels were directly related to the dose of phenylalanine and the 
differences in effect were statistically significant when compared between dose levels. For the 5mg 
dose 25%, for the 20mg 55% and for the 10mg dose 46% of patients achieved more than 30% 
reduction in phenylalanine levels at the weeks 2, 4, 6 and 10 visits. The difference between the 5 and 
10mg/kg/day was statistically significant at p<0.0001 and between 10 and 20mg/kg/day at p=0.0085. 
Twice as many subjects achieved more than 30% reduction in blood levels after receiving 10mg 
compared to 5mg/kg/day. 
The results suggest that most patients with phenylalanine will achieve blood phenylalanine reductions 
with doses of between 5 and 10mg/kg/day. 
Stable reduction of blood phenylalanine levels following a daily sapropterin dihydrochloride, 
10 mg/kg/day was demonstrated in PKU-004 Sub-study 01. Daily dosing of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride in patients with HPA due to PKU is further supported by results of the population PK 
analysis in PKU-004 Sub-study 02. The stability of blood phenylalanine reduction observed over the 
24 hour dose interval period in PKU-004 Sub-study 01 contrasts with the wide fluctuation in blood 
phenylalanine levels that occur during the day in patients with PKU who are treated only with dietary 
phenylalanine restriction. 
Overall, the results of PKU-004 study confirmed that the changes in Phe blood levels were directly 
related to the dose of Sapropterin in subjects with PKU. The difference in effects was statistically 
significant. 
In mPKU, information from the literature using a non-pharmaceutical preparation indicate that 
normalization of blood Phe levels may occur at BH4 doses less than 10 mg/kg/day. 
Persistent reduction in mean blood Phenylalanine levels and acceptable safety were demonstrated at 
this dose level for 37 subjects with HPA due to PKU. 
•  Main studies  
The clinical development program for sapropterin dihydrochloride included two pivotal, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, Phase 3 studies: PKU-003 and PKU-006 (Part 2). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
For PKU-003, responders were identified in PKU-001, using a ≥30% reduction in blood 
Phenylalanine from baseline after an 8-day course of sapropterin dihydrochloride 10 mg/kg/day. 
Responders were then eligible for randomisation in PKU-003. Subjects completing PKU-003 were 
then eligible for continuation into PKU-004, a Phase 3 open-label, 22-week extension study that 
included an initial forced-dose titration study. 
22/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects had PKU, were at least 8 years of age with elevated blood phenylalanine levels at screening, 
were not following a strict diet and had responded to sapropterin in PKU-001. Age 8 was selected as a 
6 week period on placebo without dietary control could result in elevated phenylalanine levels and a 
risk of neurological sequelae. 
Sampling  for  genotype  analysis  was  performed  for  subjects  participating  in  PKU-001  and  genetic 
diversity was demonstrated in PKU-001 and PKU-003, as requested, by consideration of the types of 
mutation and comparison to an international PAH mutation database. 
For  PKU-006,  responders  were  identified  in  Part  1,  which  involved  an  8-day  course  of  sapropterin 
dihydrochloride  20  mg/kg/day,  using  the  criteria  of  a  ≥30%  reduction  in  blood  phenylalanine  and 
blood  phenylalanine  ≤300 µmol/L  at  day  8.  Responders  were  then  eligible  for  randomisation  into 
PKU-006,  Part  2,  with  a  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  increase  in  phenylalanine  tolerance  during 
treatment  with  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  20 mg/kg/day,  and  a  secondary  efficacy  endpoint  of 
reduction in blood phenylalanine in the 3 weeks prior to adjustment of phenylalanine intake. 
Subjects had PKU with a screening blood phenylalanine level less than or equal to 480µmol/L, were 
between the ages of 4 and 12 years, were responsive to sapropterin (as documented in part 1 of the 
study  involving  8  days  sapropterin  20mg/kg/day  and  day  8  phenylalanine  less  than  or  equal  to  300 
µmol/L) and were under dietary control with a phenylalanine restricted diet as  shown by  an estimated 
phenylalanine  tolerance<  1000mg/day  and  at  least  6  months  blood  phenylalanine  control  prior  to 
screening (phenylalanine level less than or equal to 480µmol/L). 
Treatments 
Based on the CHMP scientific advice, the final clinical development program included investigations 
of a 10 mg/kg/day dose in PKU-003, 20 mg/kg/day dose in PKU-006 and doses of 5, 10, and 
20 mg/kg/day in PKU-004. Thus, the dose ranges used for the Phase 3 program support the range of 
weight-based doses proposed for the product. 
In PKU-003, during the 6 week double blind treatment period, subjects received once daily doses of 
100mg of sapropterin dihydrochloride or corresponding placebo dissolved in 120-240ml of water 
apple or orange juice. Doses were to be taken in the morning as the number of tablets equivalent to 
10/mg/kg body weight. 
In PKU-006, patients received 20mg/kg/day sapropterin phenylalaninenoptin or placebo dissolved in 
120-240ml of water or apple juice (no orange juice). Subjects were instructed to maintain a stable 
phenylalanine diet and were to keep a 3 day diet record and a record of all foods and beverages. At 
weeks 3, 5, 7 and 9, subjects phenylalanine intake was increased or decreased based on blood 
phenylalanine at weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8 respectively. 
The 6-week treatment period for PKU-003 was not extended to 3 months because of ethical concerns 
regarding  maintenance  of  placebo  treatment  for  an  extended  period,  particularly  since  this  study 
involved children. Instead, additional safety data were collected during the 22-week treatment period 
of  the  Phase  3,  open-label,  extension  study,  PKU-004,  and  also are  being  collected in  PKU-008,  an 
ongoing  Phase  3b  safety  trial  in  which  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  tablets  are  provided  in 
acknowledgement  of  the  absence  of  alternative  drug  product.  PKU-004  was  further  re-designed  to 
include  exposure  across  the  intended  treatment  dose  range  of  5  to  20 mg/kg/day,  and  included  an 
initial  forced-dose  titration  study.  Therefore,  it  was  not  feasible  to  also  include  a  randomised 
withdrawal design within this protocol. 
Objectives 
The  final  design  of  PKU-006  was  intended  to  demonstrate  the  potential  benefit  of  sapropterin 
treatment  to  increase  dietary  Phenylalanine  tolerance  and  thereby  allow  a  less  restrictive  and  more 
palatable diet for patients with PKU, as agreed by the CHMP scientific advice. 
23/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In PKU-003 
The primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of sapropterin in reducing phenylalanine levels in 
subjects with PKU after 6 weeks of treatment.  
Secondary objectives were to compare sapropterin to placebo with respect to weekly changes in 
phenylalanine levels during 6 weeks of treatment and the proportion of subjects who had levels less 
than 600umol/L at week 6. 
In PKU-006 
The primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of sapropterin to increase phenylalanine tolerance 
in children with PKU who are following a phenylalanine restricted diet. 
Secondary objectives were to evaluate the ability of sapropterin to reduce phenylalanine levels, in the 
3 weeks prior to adjustment of phenylalanine intake. to compare sapropterin. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Reduction in Blood Phenylalanine Levels 
Reduction in blood phenylalanine compared to placebo was accepted as the surrogate clinical efficacy 
endpoint for the pivotal trials within the clinical development program (EMEA/174572/2005) and was 
incorporated in the design of both studies PKU-003 and PKU-006 Part 2. Reduction in blood 
phenylalanine levels was also an efficacy endpoint for each of the 3 open label trials, PKU-001, PKU-
004, and PKU-006 Part 1. 
The use of reduction in blood phenylalanine as a surrogate clinical efficacy endpoint was based on 
studies, including a meta-analysis, showing correlations between blood phenylalanine levels and 
neurological outcomes in patients with HPA due to PKU. Furthermore, blood phenylalanine levels are 
universally used in the diagnosis and clinical management of patients with HPA due to PKU and BH4 
deficiency. 
The normal level of blood phenylalanine in individuals without PKU is approximately 60 µmol/L 
(1 mg/dL) and varies inversely with age. Reference ranges listed by Mayo Medical Laboratories, a 
primary reference laboratory for the clinical program, as determined by ion exchange chromatography, 
are listed below. 
Blood Phenylalanine Reference Range by Mayo Medical Laboratories* 
Premature 
98-213 
0 to 1 month 
38-137 
1 to 24 months 
31-75 
2 to 18 years 
26-91 
Adult 
35-85 
Age 
Blood 
Phenylalanine 
(µmol/L) 
*Phenylalanine and Tyrosine, Plasma 2007 
In individuals with PKU, blood phenylalanine levels may be 20-fold or more above the normal range 
with normal dietary phenylalanine intake, although the phenotype varies considerably, with some 
affected individuals having levels that are only modestly elevated.  
Current management guidelines for HPA due to PKU do not aim at normalisation of blood 
phenylalanine levels. Instead, the goal is reduction of blood phenylalanine levels into selected 
therapeutic ranges. In HPA due to BH4 deficiency, normalisation of blood phenylalanine levels is 
often observed with BH4 therapy. 
Increase in Dietary Phenylalanine Tolerance 
The second primary efficacy objective for the clinical development program was to demonstrate the 
ability of sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets to increase the dietary phenylalanine tolerance in subjects 
with HPA due to PKU, controlled on a phenylalanine-restricted diet. This endpoint was evaluated in 
PKU-006 Part 2. 
Current management of HPA is based on restriction of dietary protein to reduce phenylalanine intake 
to levels that will allow maintenance of target phenylalanine levels and the level of dietary 
phenylalanine that allows achievement and maintenance of target phenylalanine levels varies between 
patients and is referred to as the dietary phenylalanine tolerance. In addition, current management 
includes ingestion of phenylalanine-free protein supplements to maintain daily protein requirements. 
Patients with HPA due to PKU may tolerate only a small fraction of the usual daily intake of protein 
and must meet >80% of daily protein requirements using phenylalanine-free protein supplements. 
Maintenance of this degree of protein restriction is impractical in daily life, also considering that the 
24/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
phenylalanine-free protein supplement is known to be unpalatable. Poor compliance with diet 
management is a well-known occurrence in children and adults with HPA due to PKU and may begin 
in infancy. 
In addition to the two primary efficacy objectives, three additional efficacy objectives were considered 
within the clinical development program: 
Reduction in Blood Phenylalanine to <600 µmol/L 
Demonstrating the ability of sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets to decrease the blood phenylalanine 
level to <600 µmol/L at the end of study in patients with a blood henylalanine level ≥600 µmol/L prior 
to treatment was an additional efficacy objective evaluated in PKU-003. A secondary analysis for this 
efficacy objective was also performed for the open-label, short-term study, PKU-001. The boundary 
blood phenylalanine level of 600 µmol/L was selected as being consistent with commonly used 
therapeutic guidelines for control of blood phenylalanine in individuals with HPA due to PKU. 
Internationally agreed consensus guidelines for target blood phenylalanine levels for treatment of HPA 
are not available. Infants with HPA are typically identified in national newborn screening programs. 
For Germany, the level of HPA required for initiation of treatment of infants involves persistent levels 
of blood phenylalanine >600 µmol/L on normal intake. The UK consensus recommendation is to treat 
infants with confirmed blood phenylalanine >400 to 600 µmol/L, as measured for several days on 
normal protein intake. 
Treatment guidelines for HPA due to PKU after the newborn period are displayed below for the 4 
national guidelines (UK, US, Germany, France) and representative published guidelines for other 
countries. 
Therapeutic Targets for Blood Phenylalanine Levels (µmol/L) 
Country/Year (reference) 
Age Category 
National Guidelines 
UK/1993 
Germany/1997 
Infant 
120-360 
0-10 years old: 40-240 
10-15 years old: ≤900 
0-12 years old : 120-360 
Child 
120-480 
USA/2000 
(NIH 2001i) 
France/2005 
(Abadie 2005ii) 
Other Published Guidelines (Schweitzer-Krantz and Burgard 2000iii) 
Ireland/1987 
Denmark/1995 
0-10 years old: 120-300 
10 years old-adult: <900 
No age specified: 200-400 
0-8 years old: 180-400 
>8-10 years old: <600 
>10-12 years old: <700 
>12-18 years old: <900 
0-6 years old: <360 
>6-10 years old: <480 
>10-15 years old: <600 
East Europe/1998 
Adult 
120-700 
>15 years old: ≤1’500 
>12 years old : 120-900 
(ideal is 120-600) 
<1200-1’500 
<1’500 
<900 
Upon review of the various national guidelines and consultation with experts, achievement of a blood 
level of <600 µmol/L in subjects with a pre-treatment blood phenylalanine level of ≥600 µmol/L was 
chosen as representative of a typical clinical therapeutic goal. 
Sample size 
In PKU-003, sample size was calculated for the primary efficacy criterion and was based on a pilot 
study. The sample size calculation assumed a mean difference between placebo and active of 
159umol/L and a 2-sided type 1 error rate of 0.05. Under these conditions, a sample size of 80 
randomised subjects (40 in each group) would provide 95% power to detect a difference in mean 
blood phenylalanine level between placebo and active. 
25/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In PKU-006, assuming a mean phenylalanine supplement of 0mg/kg/day and a mean phenylalanine 
supplement of 17.5mg/kg/day at week 10 in the sapropterin group, a standard deviation of 
16mg/kg/day and a two sided type 1 error rate equal to 0.05, then a sample size of 30 subjects 
receiving sapropterin gave 99% power to detect the specified increase in total daily phenylalanine 
supplement tolerated.  
Randomisation 
In PKU-003, subjects were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either 10mg/kg/day to sapropterin 
dihydrochloride or placebo. Randomisation was stratified by study site and screening visit blood 
phenylalanine level. 96 subjects were considered as responders in PKU-001 and so, eligible for PKU-
003. Nineteen (19) enrolled on PKU-003 under protocol amendment 1 and 70 were screened under 
protocol amendment 2. I subject withdrew from the study prior to receiving any study drug because he 
was unable to comply with the study schedule. One subject randomised to placebo withdrew at week 4 
because of non compliance with dosing. 
With the identification of 50 subjects who met eligibility criteria for PKU-006 Part 2, 46 were 
randomised 3:1 to sapropterin dihydrochloride or placebo treatment, and 45 received at least one dose 
of study drug (33 subjects received sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets, 12 subjects received placebo). 
Forty one subjects (32 sapropterin dihydrochloride, 9 placebo) completed Part 2 of the study by 
attending the Week 10 visit. Randomisation to treatment group was stratified by the average blood 
phenylalanine level in the 6 months prior to screening in part 1. 
Blinding (masking) 
There were no specific issues with blinding. Placebo and active were similar. 
Statistical methods 
In PKU-003, descriptive statistics were used to summarise data in the CRFs. Continuous variables 
were summarised by the number of subjects, mean, median, standard deviations, minimum and 
maximum values and where appropriate, other percentiles. Primary and secondary endpoints were 
tested at a 2-sided type 1 error rate of 0.05. Unless stated to be otherwise, all p-values were 2-sided. 
In PKU-006, categorical variables using frequencies and percentages and continuous variables using 
means and standard deviations, as well as means, ranges and appropriate percentiles were used. 
Before locking CRF databases, a detailed statistical analysis plan was developed. The primary 
endpoint was the amount of phenylalanine tolerated after 10 weeks treatment while maintaining 
adequate phenylalanine levels. The mean supplement tolerated was compared to zero using a one 
sample t test. The supplement was calculated using changes in the amount of supplement prescribed 
and was defined as the cumulative increase or decrease in phenylalanine supplement prescribed while 
the subject blood phenylalanine was <360µmol/L. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In PKU-003, a total of 89 subjects from 27 study centres, were randomised and 88 subjects received at 
least one dose of either sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets (41 subjects) or placebo tablets 
(47 subjects).  
Nineteen (19) subjects had blood phenylalanine level ≥600 µmol/L and the remaining 70 subjects were 
entered after Protocol Amendment 2 and had a screening blood phenylalanine level ≥450 µmol/L. The 
majority of the 88 treated subjects had a screening blood phenylalanine level ≥600 µmol/L. This level 
was chosen because tests of executive and higher cognitive function had shown consistent 
improvement when blood phenylalanine levels were less than 600.  
6 subjects were non responders (28%) reduction and 3 subjects had historically high blood levels, 
Nine(9) subjects in the placebo group and 7 subjects in the sapropterin dihydrochloride group were 
entered under Protocol Amendment 2 and had a screening blood Phenylalanine level ≥450 µmol/L, but 
<600 µmol/L. Forty seven (47) patients  were randomised to placebo and 42 to active. 
26/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 subject was withdrawn because of non compliance and 87 patients completed the 6 week study 
In PKU-006, 90 subjects were enrolled in part 1 at 15 sites. Fifty subjects were classified as 
responders and 39 as non responders (one subject withdrew before day 8 for non compliance). 
Forty six (46) subjects were randomised at 11 sites. Percentages of subjects with mean blood 
phenylalanine<300µmol/L in the 6 months prior to part 1 screening were 42% and 50% in the placebo 
and sapropterin groups respectively while the percentage with mean blood phenylalanine≥300 µmol/L 
in the 6 months prior to Part 1 screening was 58%in the placebo and 50% in the sapropterin groups 
Recruitment 
Study PKU-003 
Patients entering this study were responders in PKU-001 Subjects were enrolled at 15 sites and 2 
satellite sites in North America and 12 sites in Europe. 
Study PKU-006 
Patients entering this study were responders in part 1 of the study in which 90 subjects between 4 and 
12 years received sapropterin 20mg/kg/day for 8 days and to be a responder was required to have a 
reduction in blood phenylalanine of greater than or equal to 30%, and who had blood levels of less 
than 300µmol/L at day 8 
Baseline data 
In PKU-003, baseline blood phenylalanine levels for the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and the 
placebo group were similar, 842.7 ± 299.6 and 888.3 ± 323.1 µmol/L, respectively. 
In PKU-006, percentages of subjects with mean blood phenylalanine<300µmol/L in the 6 months 
prior to part 1 screening were 42% and 50% in the placebo and sapropterin groups respectively while 
the percentage with mean blood phenylalanine≥300 µmol/L in the 6 months prior to Part 1 screening 
was 58%in the placebo and 50% in the sapropterin groups 
Numbers analysed 
In PKU-003, a total of 89 responders out of 489 patients were randomised and 88 subjects received at 
least one dose of either sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets (41 subjects) or placebo tablets 
(47 subjects). The majority of the 88 treated subjects had a screening blood phenylalanine level 
≥600 µmol/L. Nine subjects in the placebo group and 7 subjects in the sapropterin dihydrochloride 
group were entered under Protocol Amendment 2 and had a screening blood phenylalanine level 
≥450 µmol/L, but <600 µmol/L. The 88 subjects who received at least one dose of study drug were 
included in the efficacy analyses. 
For PKU-006 Part 2, all 45 subjects who received at least one dose of study drug were included in the 
efficacy analyses. 
Outcomes and estimation 
There was high inter-subject variability in the response to sapropterin. In PKU-003, over the 6-week 
study, there was a significant (p<0.001) mean decrease in blood phenylalanine levels for the 
sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment group compared to the placebo group, with a mean ± SE 
between-group difference of 245 ± 52.5 µmol/L. The mean ± SD baseline blood phenylalanine levels 
for the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and the placebo group were similar, 842.7 ± 299.6 and 888.3 
± 323.1 µmol/L, respectively. The mean ± SD change in blood phenylalanine levels from baseline to 
Week 6 was −235.9 ± 257.0 µmol/L for the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and 2.9 ± 239.5 µmol/L 
for the placebo group. 
It was noted that reductions in phenylalanine were seen across the spectrum of baseline levels and a 
baseline blood level cannot be used as a predictor of response to sapropterin. 
27/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In PKU-006 Part 2, the phenylalanine supplement at the Week 0 visit of PKU-006 Part 2 was 
0 mg/kg/day; phenylalanine supplement was not started until the Week 3 visit. The amount of 
phenylalanine supplement tolerated (i.e. phenylalanine supplement prescribed while maintaining 
adequate blood phenylalanine control) was defined as the cumulative increase/decrease in 
phenylalanine supplement prescribed at the visit prior to the last visit when the subject’s blood 
phenylalanine level was <360 µmol/L.  
Over the 10 week study period, the mean ± SD phenylalanine supplement tolerated by subjects in the 
sapropterin dihydrochloride group, 20.9 ± 15.4 mg/kg/day, was significantly different from zero 
(p<0.001). 
Of the 33 subjects who received sapropterin dihydrochloride, 11 (33.3%) tolerated a phenylalanine 
supplement of 31 to 50 mg/kg/day (50 mg/kg/day was the maximum amount of Phenylalanine 
supplementation allowed by the protocol), 10 (30.3%) tolerated 11 to 30 mg/kg/day, and 7 (21%) 
tolerated 1 to 10 mg/kg/day; 5 subjects (15%) were unable to tolerate any phenylalanine 
supplementation. Of the 12 subjects in the placebo group, none were able to tolerate phenylalanine 
supplementation above 10 mg/kg/day. 
Secondary Efficacy Results 
In PKU-003, the mean ± SD blood phenylalanine levels for the sapropterin dihydrochloride group 
decreased from 842.7 ± 299.6 µmol/L at baseline to 619.9 ± 354.7 µmol/L at Week 1 and remained 
below this level for the duration of treatment. For the placebo group, blood phenylalanine levels 
fluctuated only slightly from the mean ± SD baseline level of 888.3 ± 323.1 µmol/L, reaching a Week 
1 mean ± SD level of 862.2 ± 345.6 µmol/L and remaining above this level for the duration of the 
study. The mean ± SD change in blood phenylalanine levels from baseline to Week 1 was − 222.9 
± 192.4 µmol/L for the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and − 25.7 ± 232.3 µmol/L for the placebo 
group. 
The effect of sapropterin dihydrochloride relative to placebo was sustained and unchanged throughout 
the treatment period. The estimated difference in mean ± SE blood phenylalanine level between the 
two treatment groups (sapropterin dihydrochloride − placebo) was −230 ± 43.4 µmol/L at Week 6. 
Fifty four percent (54%) of subjects in the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and 23% of subjects in 
the placebo group had Week 6 blood phenylalanine levels <600 µmol/L (p=0.004). In the subgroup of 
subjects whose baseline blood Phenylalanine levels had been ≥600 µmol/L, 42% of those in the 
sapropterin dihydrochloride group and 13% of those in the placebo group had Week 6 blood 
phenylalanine levels <600 µmol/L (p=0.012). 
A post hoc analysis of the proportion of subjects who had blood phenylalanine levels <360 µmol/L at 
Week 6 (end-of-study) was performed. No subject had a screening blood phenylalanine level 
<360 µmol/L. At Week 6, 13 of 41 subjects (32%) in the sapropterin dihydrochloride group and 1 of 
47 subjects (2%) in the placebo group had blood phenylalanine levels <360 µmol/L (p<0.001). For 
subjects with screening blood phenylalanine levels ≥600 µmol/L, 26% of subjects in the sapropterin 
dihydrochloride group and 3% of subjects in the placebo group had Week 6 blood phenylalanine 
levels <360 µmol/L.  
In PKU-006 Part 2, for subjects treated with sapropterin dihydrochloride, the mean ± SD change in 
blood phenylalanine from the Week 0 visit to the Week 3 visit was 148.5 ± 134.2 µmol/L, which was 
a significant decrease from the Week 0 visit (p<0.001). 
Another secondary efficacy endpoint, comparison between treatment groups of the amount of 
phenylalanine supplement tolerated, was analysed using a two way analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
model with effects for blood phenylalanine level stratum and treatment group. The adjusted mean ± 
SE phenylalanine supplement tolerated was 21.0 ± 2.3 mg/kg/day for subjects in the sapropterin 
dihydrochloride group and 3.3 ± 3.9 mg/kg/day for subjects in the placebo group. The difference 
between the two treatment groups was statistically significant (p<0.001). 
28/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Genotype Analysis 
Subjects enrolled in PKU-001 were invited to participate in a study involving analysis of PAH 
genotype. Of the 485 subjects who completed PKU-001, 400/485 (82.5%) had full PAH genotype 
analysis. An additional 85 subjects had indeterminate PAH genotypes, probably due to technical 
limitations rather than misdiagnosis. Among the 400 fully genotyped subjects, 57/400 (14.3%) were 
homozygous for a single PAH mutation and 343/400 (85.7%) were compound heterozygotes. A total 
of 118 different PAH gene mutations were identified. A total of 72/88 (82%) of subjects in PKU-003 
had full PAH genotype analysis. The PAH genotype patterns were similar between the placebo and 
sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment groups but detailed analysis was not possible. due to the large 
number of observed mutations and the fact that the majority of subjects had compound heterozygosity 
for PAH mutations. 
Comparison of PAH genotypes to the response of blood phenylalanine to sapropterin dihydrochloride 
treatment in PKU-001 did not reveal any consistent patterns. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
• 
No analyses were performed across trials for efficacy 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies were performed in special populations. 
• 
Supportive studies 
Due to the particularly rare condition of BH4 deficiency, no specific studies were performed but 
evidences from published studies were provided in support of this application.  
Although the current presentation of sapropterin was not used in any of the studies, these publications 
suggest a significant effect on the Phe levels in this subgroup of patients with lower doses of 
sapropterin (2 to 5 mg/kg/day) and an effect seen in studies for up to 133 months. 
Biopten Study (D272) was used to support Biopten (sapropterin dihydrochloride 2.5% granules) 
registration in Japan, enrolled and treated 16 subjects with BH4 deficiency. Sapropterin 
dihydrochloride treatment began at a dose of 1.5 to 10 mg/kg/day, and the dose was increased or 
decreased based on clinical symptoms and examination results. Daily dosing ranged from 0.8 to 
37 mg/kg/day, with maintenance dosing ranging from 2 to 5 mg/kg/day. Sapropterin dihydrochloride 
was administered for a mean of 15.5 months; 15 subjects were treated for 10 to 20 months and 1 
subject was treated for 4 months. 
Assessment of clinical effectiveness was based on the degree of improvement in blood phenylalanine 
levels, a meaningful increase in dihydrobiopterin (BH2; indicating oxidation of 6R-BH4) for patients 
with DHPR deficiency, and decrease of the urine neopterin to biopterin ratio, (indicating 6R-BH4 
utilisation) for patients with PTPS deficiency. Based on this global improvement rating, there was 
marked improvement in 87.5% (14/16) of patients and marked or moderate improvement in all 
16 patients. When overall improvement, general safety, and other clinical assessments were taken into 
account, 87.5% (14/16) of patients had a score of very useful, and all 16 patients had a score of very 
useful or useful. 
For all 16 subjects, blood phenylalanine levels were lower after treatment with sapropterin 
dihydrochloride and were maintained within the normal range (≤3 mg/dL [≤181.6 µmol/L]) during the 
treatment period. 
Other literature studies reported by Wang et al., and Chien et al. in HPA patients with BH4 deficiency 
were also in favour of an improvement under a treatment including a non-pharmaceutical preparation 
of BH4. 
29/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Two short-term open-label treatment response studies (PKU-001 and PKU-006 -Part 1) were 
performed to identify responders to sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment. 
Responders were defined by the criterion of a ≥30% decrease in blood phenylalanine from baseline 
after 8 days of daily sapropterin dihydrochloride at the same dose used in the consequent, respective 
pivotal trial. The 30% cut off represents a significant reduction in blood phenylalanine based on 
limited published observations and expert opinion, and is not directly relevant to proposed clinical 
therapeutic targets per se. 
The results of PKU-004 have documented a dose response. Overall, the changes in phenylalanine 
levels were directly related to the dose of sapropterin and the differences in effect were statistically 
significant when compared between dose levels. For the 5mg dose 25%, for the 20mg 55% and for the 
10mg dose 46% of patients achieved more than 30% reduction in phenylalanine levels at the weeks 2, 
4, 6 and 10 visits. The difference between the 5 and 10mg/kg/day was statistically significant at 
p<0.0001 and between 10 and 20mg/kg/day at p=0.0085. Twice as many subjects achieved more than 
30% reduction in blood levels after receiving 10mg compared to 5mg/kg/day. 
For BH4 deficiency, the starting dose for Sapropterin, 2 to 5 mg/kg/day, is based on clinical data for 
sapropterin dihydrochloride 2.5% granules (Biopten), which contain the same drug substance. 
Information from the Biopten registration trials and post-marketing experience, as well as information 
from the published literature using a non-pharmaceutical preparation indicate that reduction or 
normalisation of blood phenylalanine levels may occur at sapropterin dihydrochloride doses less than 
10 mg/kg/day, particularly in patients with BH4 deficiency due to PTPS deficiency. On the other hand, 
some individuals with BH4 deficiency due to DHPR deficiency may require doses of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride up to 20 mg/kg/day, and the daily dose may need to be divided. In addition, the total 
daily dose may need to be split into 2 or 3 doses a day. It has been postulated that this difference in 
dosing regimen reflects the facts that DHPR deficiency prevents endogenous regeneration of 6R-BH4. 
Therefore, the proposed dose range for BH4 deficiency is specified as 5 to 20 mg/kg/day, which may 
need to be split into 2 to 3 doses per day to optimise treatment 
In  the  two  phase  III  studies  provided  PKU-003  and  PKU-006,  the  applicant  has  documented  a 
statistically significant dose related effect which was maintained for the duration of the studies.  
In  PKU-003,  there  were  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  sapropterin  and  placebo 
treated  patients’  phenylalanine  levels  at  the  end  of  the  study.  The  mean  ± SD  baseline  blood 
phenylalanine  levels  for  the  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  group  and  the  placebo  group  were  similar, 
842.7 ± 299.6 and 888.3 ± 323.1 µmol/L, respectively. The estimated difference in mean ± SE blood 
phenylalanine  level  between  the  two  treatment  groups  (sapropterin  dihydrochloride  −  placebo)  was 
−230 ± 43.4 µmol/L at Week 6. 
In  PKU-006,  11  (33.3%)  of  the  33  subjects  who  received  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  tolerated  a 
phenylalanine  supplement  of  31  to  50 mg/kg/day,  10  (30.3%)  tolerated  11  to  30 mg/kg/day,  and 
7 (21%)  tolerated  1  to  10 mg/kg/day;  5 subjects  (15%)  were  unable  to  tolerate  any  phenylalanine 
supplementation.  Of  the  12  subjects  in  the  placebo  group,  none  were  able  to  tolerate  phenylalanine 
supplementation above 10 mg/kg/day. In subjects treated with sapropterin dihydrochloride, the mean 
± SD  change  in  blood  phenylalanine  from  the  Week  0  visit  to  the  Week  3  visit  was  148.5  ± 
134.2 µmol/L, which was a significant decrease from the Week 0 visit (p<0.001). 
The results suggest that most patients with hyperphenylalaninaemia will achieve blood phenylalanine 
reductions with doses of between 5 and 10mg/kg/day. These patients must continue a restricted 
phenylalanine diet and undergo regular clinical assessment (such as monitoring of blood phenylalanine 
and tyrosine levels, nutrient intake, and psycho-motor development). 
30/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In  total,  647  subjects  have  been  treated  with  one  or  more  doses  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride,  in 
either a tablet or granule formulation, in clinical studies of HPA due to PKU or BH4 deficiency or in 
healthy volunteers. 
In PKU-001, PKU-003, PKU4 and PKU-006, a total of 579 individuals with PKU received at least 
one  dose  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  tablets  including  125  children  (≥4  to  <12  years  old),  157 
adolescents (≥12 to <18 years old) and 297 adults (≥18 years old). Forty four point three percent of 
subjects (44.3% [255/575]) were aged ≥ 18 years and received sapropterin dihydrochloride for < 10 
days as part of a screening study to identify responders.  
•  Adverse events 
In the combined, placebo-controlled trials, PKU-003 and PKU-006 Part 2, the treatment-emergent 
adverse events which were reported by ≥ 5% of subjects treated with sapropterin dihydrochloride 
tablets and at a rate which was in excess over placebo (i.e. where the proportion of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride-treated subjects reporting the event exceeding the proportion of placebo subjects 
reporting the same event by at least 3 percentage points), included: rhinorrhoea, pharyngolaryngeal 
pain, diarrhoea, and contusion. Other adverse events which were reported by at least 3 sapropterin 
dihydrochloride-treated subjects and at a rate which was in excess over placebo in either one of the 
individual studies included: headache, nasal congestion, vomiting and cough. Except for headache, no 
other neuropsychological adverse events were most common in the pivotal trials 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events in the Combined Placebo-Controlled Trials, PKU-003 and 
PKU-006 Part 2, Occurring in ≥ 5% of Sapropterin Dihydrochloride-
Treated Subjects and in Excess Over Placebo 
PKU-003 and PKU-006 Part 2 Combined
Preferred Term 
Diarrhoea
Pharyngolaryngeal pain
Rhinorrhoea
Contusion
Placebo
Subjects (n=59)
Events (n=120)
Subjects 
 n (%)
  3 (    5.1)
  1 (    1.7)
  0 (    0.0)
  1 (    1.7)
Events 
 n (%)
   3 (    2.5)
   1 (    0.8)
   0 (    0.0)
   1 (    0.8)
Sapropterin dihydrochloride 
10-20 mg/kg/day
 Subjects (n=74)
 Events (n=153)
Subjects 
 n (%) 
  6 (    8.1)
  7 (    9.5)
  8 (  10.8)
  4 (    5.4)
Events 
 n (%)
    7 (    4.6)
    9 (    5.9)
    8 (    5.2)
    4 (    2.6)
(a) Occurring in at least 5% of Sapropterin treated subjects and this is at least 3% more than the % of Placebo treated
subjects with AEs in the same Preferred Term.
Withdrawal 
The potential effects of drug withdrawal were evaluated in the context of the placebo-controlled 
studies, PKU-003 and PKU-006 Part 2, by examining the AEs that occurred following treatment 
discontinuation (“post-treatment period”). 
From  the  results  of  this  analysis,  there  did  not  appear  to  be  any  pattern  to  the  events  that  emerged 
following discontinuation of sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets and no safety concerns relevant with 
withdrawal effects were identified.  
Rebound 
Rebound was examined in the context of study PKU-006 and the break in treatment that occurred 
between Parts 1 and 2. 
The results of this analysis suggest not surprisingly that continued treatment with sapropterin 
dihydrochloride in necessary to maintain effect as, even in subjects maintained on a phenylalanine-
31/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
restricted diet, phenylalanine levels may rebound upon cessation of treatment. However, in subjects 
experiencing rebound, resumption of treatment with sapropterin dihydrochloride is effective in 
returning phenylalanine levels to the desired therapeutic level. 
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
No  deaths  were  reported  in  among  the  studies  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  tablets  in  PKU.  No 
deaths  were  reported  in  the  clinical  study  D272  of  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  granules  in  BH4 
deficiency. 
It is unlikely that any of the six serious adverse events (hospitalisation for strep throat,  two cases of 
appendicitis, back pain, hospitalisation for urinary tract infection and fractured tibia) reported in the 
dossier were related to sapropterin. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Hypophenylalaninenylalaninemia  
Since phenylalanine is an essential amino acid, persistence of blood phenylalanine levels below the 
normal range is undesirable. For the analyses of safety data in the pivotal trials, PKU-003 and PKU-
006 Part 2, hypophenylalaninaemia was defined as the occurrence of a blood phenylalanine level 
≤26 µmol/L. 
5 of the 41 subjects in the sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment group for PKU-003 experienced at 
least one occurrence of blood phenylalanine levels ≤120 µmol/L; there were no low levels reported for 
the placebo group and no subjects in either treatment group with levels below 40 or 26 µmol/L.  
In PKU-006 Part 2, 27/33 (81.8%) of subjects randomised to treatment with sapropterin 
dihydrochloride tablets had at least one occurrence of a blood Phenylalanine level ≤120 µmol/L, as 
compared to 6/12 (50%) of placebo subjects. Of the 27 sapropterin dihydrochloride-treated subjects 
with a blood phenylalanine level ≤120 µmol/L during PKU-006 Part 2, 12 had at least one blood 
phenylalanine level ≤40 µmol/L and 9 had at least one level ≤26 µmol/L (36.3% and 27.3%, 
respectively, of all the sapropterin dihydrochloride treated subjects); comparable numbers for the 
placebo treatment group were 1/12 (8.3%) and 1/12 (8.3%), respectively. 
In study PKU-006 Part 1, 40 (44.9%) subjects had one or more phenylalanine level measurement 
≤ 120 µmol/L. Of these, 35.0% (14/40) of the subjects had a measurement ≤ 40 µmol/L and 20.0% 
(8/40) had a measurement ≤ 26 µmol/L. 
In comparison, 6 subjects (1.2%) participating in study PKU-001 had a phenylalanine level 
measurement ≤ 120 µmol/L. Of these, 1 subject had a measurement ≤ 26 µmol/L. 
In PKU-004, 6 (7.5%) subjects had phenylalanine levels ≤ 120 µmol/L. This incidence was higher 
than that seen in PKU-001 (1.2%), but lower than in the sapropterin dihydrochloride-treated subjects 
in PKU-003 (12.2%). No subject had a result ≤ 40 or ≤ 26 µmol/L during PKU-004. 
In studies PKU-003, PKU-001 and PKU-004, the proportion of subjects having one or more low 
phenylalanine value was higher among the paediatric subjects (≥ 4 to < 18 years) than in the adults 
(≥ 18 years). Because all subjects enrolled in studies PKU-006 Parts 1 and 2 were aged 4 to 12 years, 
no comparison of low phenylalanine values between paediatric subjects and adults is possible in these 
studies. 
The higher occurrence of low blood phenylalanine levels during sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment 
in PKU-006 Part 2 as compared to PKU-003 was not unexpected since subjects in PKU-006 were pre-
selected to have blood phenylalanine levels controlled on a phenylalanine-restricted diet, whereas 
subjects in PKU-003 had uncontrolled blood phenylalanine levels. In addition, the dose of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride tablets was higher in PKU-006 (20 mg/kg/day) than in PKU-003 (10 mg/kg/day). 
Low phenylalanine levels were not reported in the published Study D272 or in the post-marketing 
surveillance study of sapropterin dihydrochloride granules in BH4-deficiency, although such events 
may have occurred.  
32/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these studies and in the literature, downward adjustment of the BH4 dose even after diet 
liberalisation was evident for some subjects, suggesting that blood phenylalanine levels may have been 
below the desired therapeutic or normal range. 
Safety in special populations 
• 
Studies  in  patients  with  renal  or  liver  insufficiency  were  not  included  in  the  clinical  development. 
Therefore,  no  data  are  available  for  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  use  in  these  subgroups.  These 
subgroups have been included as important missing information in the Risk Management Plan and will 
be addressed in routine pharmacovigilance. 
In the pre-clinical program, nephrotoxicity was identified as a possible safety concern, based on 
studies in which very high doses of sapropterin were administered to animals. There were no reports 
of renal laboratory abnormalities and no treatment-related renal adverse events observed in the clinical 
development program. 
There were no hepatic concerns raised in the pre-clinical studies, and there were no reports of hepatic 
abnormalities or treatment-related hepatic adverse events observed in the clinical development 
program. Hepatic laboratory shift tables, which address the advice given during the CHMP Protocol 
Assistance, did not reveal any abnormalities  
Subjects who were pregnant or lactating were excluded from all studies. In one published case report 
of a pregnant patient with mild hyperphenylalaninaemia due to PKU who was treated with 
tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4), no adverse effects on the pregnancy or newborn were noted. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
• 
No formal study of interactions between sapropterin dihydrochloride and other drugs has been carried 
out. 
In the combined placebo-controlled trials, PKU-003 and PKU-006 Part 2, a similar proportion of 
subjects in the sapropterin dihydrochloride treatment group used one or more concomitant drugs as 
compared to the placebo group. Among the sapropterin dihydrochloride-treated subjects, 48 (64.9%) 
used one or more concomitant medication. While in the placebo group, 45 (76.3%) used one or more 
concomitant medication. The most frequently reported concomitant medications (≥ 10% of subjects in 
either treatment group) included propionic acid derivatives (ibuprofen), anilides (paracetamol) and 
multivitamins. Similar proportions of sapropterin dihydrochloride and placebo subjects used these 
drugs. All other concomitant drugs were reported by fewer than 10% of subjects in either treatment 
group. 
No drug interaction data are available from study D272 of sapropterin dihydrochloride granules in 
subjects with BH4 deficiency. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
• 
There were no discontinuations due to drug-related adverse events 
Post marketing experience 
• 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride tablets has not been approved for marketing in the treatment of HPA due 
to BH4 deficiency. 
Sapropterin dihydrochloride granules (Biopten 2.5% Granules) has been approved for the treatment of 
BH4 deficiency in Japan. Results of a pre-approval and post-marketing surveillance study conducted 
in Japan are summarised.  
A pre-approval and 10-year post-marketing safety surveillance program was conducted by DSP in 
patients with atypical hyperphenylalaninaemia due to BH4 deficiency. Safety results were classified as 
adverse drug reactions (ADRs), and the terms used in this summary and in the full report have not 
been coded using standard MedDRA SOCs or PTs. 
The only ADRs reported in the pre-approval surveillance program were 2 cases of diarrhoea reported 
for 1 of the 19 patients (5.3%). 
Thirty-two ADRs were reported for 11 of 30 patients (36.7%) in the post-marketing surveillance 
program. The major ADRs were convulsion and exacerbation of convulsion in 3 of the 30 patients 
(10.0%), and GGT increased in 2 of the 30 patients (6.7%). The annual number of ADRs reported was 
33/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0 to 8 ADRs reported per year for 0 to 3 patients per year (0.0% to 10.0% of patients in the 
surveillance program). Two patients’ deaths considered unrelated to sapropterin dihydrochloride 
granules treatment were reported during or immediately following the post-marketing surveillance 
period. DSP concluded that no clinical problems related to treatment with sapropterin dihydrochloride 
granules were evident, based on this surveillance program. 
In the post-marketing surveillance program, the frequency and incidence of ADRs categorised by body 
system was: 16 events of central and peripheral nervous system disorders in 5 patients (16.7%), 1 
event of an autonomic nervous system disorder in 1 patient (3.3%), 6 events of vision disorders in 2 
patients (6.7%), 3 events of psychiatric disorders in 2 patients (6.7%), 1 event of a gastrointestinal 
system disorder in 1 patient (6.7%), and 5 events of liver and biliary system disorders in 4 patients 
(13.3%). None of the ADRs were considered serious. Twenty-one of the ADRs in 7 subjects were 
considered unexpected events. All ADRs were transient, and subjects recovered or improved without 
discontinuing sapropterin dihydrochloride granules treatment, except for 1 subject in whom 
stammering, involuntary movement of lips, and ocular displacement were continuously reported from 
the sixth year of the program onward while sapropterin dihydrochloride granules treatment was 
continued. 
Since 16 ADRs in the central and peripheral nervous system disorders category were reported for 5 
subjects (16.7%) in the post-marketing surveillance program, neurological symptoms underwent 
intensive review. All subjects who developed these ADRs, except for 1 subject with convulsion, had 
developed neurological symptoms before the start of sapropterin dihydrochloride granules treatment. 
In most subjects, it was difficult to distinguish a treatment-emergent ADR from the subjects’ pre-
existing neurological symptoms. The subject for whom convulsion was reported did not have 
neurological symptoms before the start of treatment, but developed clonic convulsion of the upper 
limbs and abnormal eye movement (staring) for several seconds about 3 months after the start of 
sapropterin dihydrochloride granules treatment at 1 month of age. The severity of the ADR was mild 
and the subject recovered following treatment with an anticonvulsant. Overdose of concomitantly 
administered levodopa may have been related to these symptoms. 
ADRs in the gastrointestinal disorders category were limited to 1 report of loose stool and 2 reports of 
diarrhoea in 2 subjects (6.7%). 
ADRs in the liver and biliary system disorders category were reported for 4 subjects (13.3%): 2 
reports of GGT increased and 1 report each of hepatic function disorder, AST increased and ALT 
increased. 
Two (2) deaths, both considered to be unrelated to sapropterin dihydrochloride granules treatment, 
were reported as part of the DSP post-marketing surveillance program. One death was reported during 
the 10-year surveillance period and 1 was reported 5 days after completion of the surveillance period. 
One patient, a male, suffered an airway obstruction secondary to a large amount of sputum, developed 
severe complications, and died from sepsis at age 4 years and 5 months. The second patient, also a 
male, was found dead in his apartment 5 days after the surveillance period had ended, at age 24 years 
and 10 months, having apparently died “several days” earlier of complications related to his 
underlying BH4 deficiency with severe muscle stiffness. Autopsies were not performed in either case. 
No other serious AEs were identified in the study report for the surveillance study. 
Gender, diagnosis, medical history, concomitant levodopa and/or anticonvulsant drug use, and 
concomitant therapies were evaluated as potential factors affecting ADR incidence. A statistically 
significant difference was observed for medical history, with the frequency of ADRs higher in subjects 
with complications than in those without complications. There was no association between type of 
complication (neurological or non-neurological) and the ADRs developed. The reasons for the higher 
ADR frequency in patients with complications could not be determined. No significant difference in 
ADR frequency was apparent in comparisons by gender, diagnosis, concomitant levodopa and/or 
anticonvulsant drug use, or concomitant therapies. 
The conclusion from this surveillance study was that long-term treatment with Sapropterin 
dihydrochloride granules did not pose any significant overall safety problems, or specific concerns in 
patients with pre-existing neurological disorders. 
34/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Sapropterin was well tolerated.  
Hypophenylalaninaemia, as defined by the occurrence of a blood phenylalanine level ≤26 µmol/L, was 
observed to occur more frequently with sapropterin-dihydrochloride treatment as compared to placebo. 
This is an expected consequence of the effect of sapropterin to decrease blood phenylalanine levels 
and may indicate a need to increase dietary phenylalanine intake or adjust the dose of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride tablets.  
Common adverse events among the sapropterin dihydrochloride-treated subjects that were reported in 
excess over placebo (i.e. by a difference of at least 3 percentage points greater than the proportion of 
placebo subjects reporting the same event) in either the combined or one of the individual placebo-
controlled trials, include: headache, rhinorrhoea, pharyngolaryngeal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, nasal 
congestion, cough and contusion.  
The observed adverse events within this dose range were mostly mild to moderate and transient in 
nature. There were no deaths and serious adverse reactions were not related to sapropterin. 
The recommended starting dose of 2 to 5 mg/kg/day for Sapropterin treatment of BH4 deficiency is 
consistent with the safety data from the Study D272 and the post-marketing surveillance study for 
sapropterin dihydrochloride 2.5% granules (Biopten). No safety concerns were evident within this 
dose range. 
Patients treated with Kuvan must continue a restricted phenylalanine diet and undergo regular clinical 
assessment (such as monitoring of blood phenylalanine and tyrosine levels, nutrient intake, and 
psycho-motor development).  
Special  attention  was  given  to  analysis  of  data  regarding  hepatic  laboratory  test  results,  clinical 
adverse reactions, and neurological and psychological/behavioural events.  
In addition to the provided Risk Management Plan, further safety data will be collected in the post-
marketing phase as follow-up measures: 
o  a post-marketing drug registry for patients >4 years old. The registry will include data for 
elderly patients (without an upper age limit), maternal pregnancy, and patients with renal or 
hepatic insufficiency and children, including childhood growth and neurocognitive outcomes. 
o  a study to evaluate neurocognitive function, long-term safety and effects on growth parameters 
in children up to the age of 8 years. 
o  a study in paediatric patients with PKU, 0 to 4 years old, to evaluate population 
pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
It provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any adverse reaction suspected 
of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
35/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary Table of the Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
•  Vomit 
•  Diarrhoea 
•  Abdominal pain 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (ICSRs, aggregate 
data analyses in accordance 
with applicable laws) 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Hypophenylalaminemia 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Post-authorisation studies 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Post-authorisation studies 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Rebound 
Drug interactions 
•  Dihydrofolate 
reductase inhibitors 
•  Vasodilators using 
the NO metabolic 
pathway 
•  Levodopa 
Potential risks 
Nephrotoxicity 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
Adequately  described in the SPC, 
section 4.2 and 4.8 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
sections 4.2 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
sections 4.2 and 4.5  
Additional 
Not applicable 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Routine 
Section 5.3 of the SPC describes the 
kidney findings in animals.  
Additional 
Not applicable 
Limited / missing information 
Size of safety database 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Clinical studies PKU-007, 
PKU-008 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Routine 
Not applicable 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Limited long-term 
exposure data 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Clinical study PKU-008 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Routine 
Not applicable 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Limited BH4 deficiency 
subgroup data 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Clinical study PKU-007 
Routine 
Not applicable 
Additional 
Not applicable 
36/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnant women 
Children ≤ 4 years of age 
Elderly 
Patients with renal or 
hepatic insufficiency 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Post-authorisation studies  
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities  
•  Post-authorisation studies  
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  Post-authorisation studies 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
section4.6. 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4 
Additional 
Not applicable 
Routine 
Adequately described in the SPC, 
sections 4.2 and 4.4 
Additional 
Not applicable 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information  
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
As there are no appropriate animal models for HPA due to PKU, non-clinical primary 
pharmacodynamic studies were conduced in normal rodents where HPA was induced by administering 
a BH4 biosynthesis inhibitor. Such studies demonstrated that 6R-BH4 supplementation by systemic 
route can reverse the effects of inhibitors of the BH4 biosysnthesis pathway. 
Similarities exist in the pharmacokinetic profile of sapropterin dihydrochloride across the species 
studied (mouse, rat, rabbit and monkey) and with the limited clinical pharmacokinetic studies. 
The majority of orally administered sapropterin dihydrochloride is excreted in faeces due to limited 
absorption from the gastro-intestinal tract. The fraction absorbed is mostly excreted with the urine. 
The kidney was identified as a target organ of toxicity in the rat in single-dose and repeat-dose studies 
(slight tubular basophilia) at doses resulting in very low safety margins compared to the human 
exposure. Therefore, the occurrence of possible kidney changes will be monitored during clinical use 
as mentioned in the risk management plan. 
Juvenile animal data suggest that sapropterin dihydrochloride may be potentially more toxic in early 
postnatal age, but this was most likely due to the higher absorption of sapropterin dihydrochloride in 
younger animals. 
There was no developmental or embryofoetal toxicity in rats and rabbits. 
Oral carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats indicated no potential of sapropterin 
dihydrochloride to induce the formation of either neoplastic or hyperplastic lesions. 
Sapropterin is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
37/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Sapropterin is intended to provide the necessary co-factor for phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), 
allowing hydroxylation of phenylalanine to tyrosine in patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) by acting 
as a co-factor to increase the residual activity of the mutated PAH enzyme, and to replace the missing 
6R-BH4 in patients who lack BH4. 
In  the  two  phase  III  studies  provided  PKU-003  and  PKU-006,  the  applicant  has  documented  a 
statistically significant dose related effect which was maintained for the duration of the studies.  
In  PKU-003,  the  estimated  difference  in  mean  ±  SE  blood  phenylalanine  level  between  the  two 
treatment groups (sapropterin dihydrochloride − placebo) was −230 ± 43.4 µmol/L at Week 6. 
In  PKU-006,  11  (33.3%)  of  the  33  subjects  who  received  sapropterin  dihydrochloride  tolerated  a 
phenylalanine  supplement  of  31  to  50 mg/kg/day,  10  (30.3%)  tolerated  11  to  30 mg/kg/day,  and 
7 (21%)  tolerated  1  to  10 mg/kg/day;  5 subjects  (15%)  were  unable  to  tolerate  any  phenylalanine 
supplementation.  Of  the  12  subjects  in  the  placebo  group,  none  were  able  to  tolerate  phenylalanine 
supplementation above 10 mg/kg/day. In subjects treated with sapropterin dihydrochloride, the mean 
± SD  change  in  blood  phenylalanine  from  the  Week  0  visit  to  the  Week  3  visit  was  148.5  ± 
134.2 µmol/L, which was a significant decrease from the Week 0 visit (p<0.001). 
Safety 
Sapropterin cannot reduce blood levels in all patients with raised phenylalanine levels but does appear 
to reduce levels in subjects who have been shown to respond to BH4. In prescribing this product, it is 
therefore  important  to  stress  that  the  product  does  not  work  in  all  patients  with  PKU  or  BH4 
deficiency but only in those who have shown a definite effect.  
In addition, it is important to ensure that patients treated are monitored to ensure an adequate response 
and an absence of excess effect in phenylalanine levels. 
As mentioned in the SPC (section 4.2 and 4.4), “Patients treated with Kuvan must continue a restricted 
phenylalanine diet and undergo regular clinical assessment (such as monitoring of blood phenylalanine 
and tyrosine levels, nutrient intake, and psycho-motor development).” 
Sapropterin  was  well  tolerated  with  most  of the adverse events  mild  or  moderate.  Common  adverse 
events  among  the  sapropterin  dihydrochloride-treated  subjects  that  were  reported  in  excess  over 
placebo  (i.e.  by  a  difference  of  at  least  3  percentage  points  greater  than  the  proportion  of  placebo 
subjects reporting the same event) in either the combined or one of the individual placebo-controlled 
trials, include: headache, rhinorrhoea, pharyngolaryngeal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, nasal congestion, 
cough and contusion.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The results of user testing demonstrated that at least 90% of the participants were able to find each 
point of information. It also showed that at least 90% of those participants were able to express the 
information in their own words. The leaflet therefore fulfils the EU requirements for user testing. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
In  the  two  phase  III  studies  provided  PKU-003  and  PKU-006,  the  applicant  has  documented  a 
statistically significant dose related effect which was maintained for the duration of the studies.  
The results suggest that most patients with hyperphenylalaninaemia will achieve blood phenylalanine 
reductions with doses of between 5 and 10mg/kg/day.  
In prescribing this product, it is important to stress that the product does not work in all patients with 
PKU or BH4 deficiency but only in those who have shown a definite effect.  
38/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, it is important to ensure that patients treated are monitored to ensure an adequate response 
and an absence of excess effect in phenylalanine levels. 
Sapropterin was well tolerated with most of the adverse events mild or moderate. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that:  
o Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
o No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  Kuvan  is  not  similar  to  any  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product 
within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Kuvan in the following indication:  
“Kuvan is indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adult and paediatric 
patients of 4 years of age and over with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been shown to be 
responsive to such treatment. 
Kuvan is also indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adult and 
paediatric patients with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency, who have been shown to be 
responsive to such treatment.” 
 was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
References 
National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Panel. National Institutes of Health 
i  
Consensus Development Conference Statement: phenylalaninenylketonuria: screening and 
management, October 16-18, 2000. Pediatrics 2001;108(4): 972-982 
ii  
phenylalaninenylketonuria and hyperphenylalaninenylalaninemia: the french guidelines. Arch Pediatr. 
2005;12:594-601 
iii  
Phenylalaninenylketonuria. Eur J Pediatr. 2000;159(supp2):S70-S73 
Abadie V, Berthelot J, Feillet F, Maurin N, Mercier A, Ogier de Baulny H. Management of 
Schweitzer-Krantz S, Burgard P. Survey of national guidelines for the treatment of 
39/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
