EMA/350999/2017 
EMEA/H/C/000943 
EPAR summary for the public 
Kuvan 
sapropterin dihydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Kuvan. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Kuvan. 
For practical information about using Kuvan, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Kuvan and what is it used for? 
Kuvan is a medicine that is used to treat high blood levels of phenylalanine in adults and children of all 
ages with the genetic disorders phenylketonuria (PKU) or tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency. 
Patients with these disorders cannot process the amino acid phenylalanine from dietary protein, and as 
a result the amino acid builds up in the blood to abnormally high levels, causing problems in the 
nervous system. 
Because the number of patients with conditions leading to high phenylalanine levels is low, the 
conditions are considered ‘rare’, and Kuvan was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 8 June 2004. 
Kuvan contains the active substance sapropterin dihydrochloride.  
How is Kuvan used? 
Kuvan is available as soluble tablets (100 mg) or as powder (100 or 500 mg), to be dissolved in water 
and drunk. Kuvan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and 
supervised by a doctor who has experience in treating PKU and BH4 deficiency. It is important that 
patients continue with a diet low in phenylalanine and protein when taking Kuvan, and intake of 
phenylalanine and protein must be monitored and adjusted to make sure that blood phenylalanine 
levels and nutritional balance are controlled. Kuvan is intended for long-term use. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The starting dose of Kuvan depends on the patient’s weight. The dose is then adjusted depending on 
blood levels of amino acids including phenylalanine.  Kuvan is taken with a meal at the same time 
every day, preferably in the morning. For some patients with BH4 deficiency, the dose may need to be 
divided into two or three doses over the course of the day to get the best effect. 
A satisfactory response is defined as a reduction in blood phenylalanine levels of at least 30% or to a 
level determined by the doctor. If this has been achieved after one month, the patient is classified as a 
‘responder’ and can continue taking Kuvan. 
How does Kuvan work? 
The high levels of phenylalanine in the blood are due to a problem with the breakdown of 
phenylalanine through the enzyme ‘phenylalanine hydroxylase’. Patients with PKU have defective 
versions of the enzyme, and patients with BH4 deficiency have low levels of BH4, a ‘cofactor’ that this 
enzyme needs to work properly.  
The active substance in Kuvan, sapropterin dihydrochloride, is a synthetic copy of BH4. In PKU, it 
works by enhancing the activity of the defective enzyme, while in BH4 deficiency it replaces the 
missing cofactor. These actions help restore the ability of the enzyme to convert phenylalanine into 
tyrosine, thereby reducing phenylalanine levels in the blood. 
What benefits of Kuvan have been shown in studies? 
In PKU treatment, a main study compared the reductions in blood phenylalanine in 88 patients treated 
with either Kuvan or placebo (a dummy treatment). Two other studies in 101 patients looked at how 
effective Kuvan was at allowing the patients to consume foods containing phenylalanine while keeping 
blood phenylalanine at target levels (i.e. phenylalanine tolerance). 
Kuvan was more effective than placebo at reducing blood phenylalanine levels in patients with PKU, 
achieving a reduction of 236 micromoles per litre after 6 weeks compared with an increase of 
3 micromoles per litre seen with placebo. In addition Kuvan allowed patients with PKU who were not on 
a restricted diet to increase their daily phenylalanine intake by 17.5 mg per kg body weight after 10 
weeks compared with 3.3 mg/kg with placebo. When Kuvan plus diet restriction was compared with 
diet restriction alone, the average daily phenylalanine intake that was tolerated after 26 weeks was 
81 mg/kg in the Kuvan group and 50 mg/kg in the group on diet restriction alone. 
For the treatment of BH4 deficiency, which is a very rare condition, the company presented results of 
three studies from the published literature in which some patients were treated with sapropterin for an 
average of 15.5 months. In these studies, patients showed an improvement in blood phenylalanine 
levels and other markers of the disease when they were taking the medicine. 
Studies with Kuvan involved adults and children of all ages. 
What are the risks associated with Kuvan? 
The most common side effects with Kuvan (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are headache and 
rhinorrhoea (runny nose).  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Kuvan, see the package leaflet. 
Kuvan  
EMA/350999/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Kuvan approved? 
The Agency decided that Kuvan’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kuvan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kuvan have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Kuvan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Kuvan on 2 December 2008.  
The summary of opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Kuvan can be found on 
the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designations. 
The full EPAR for Kuvan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Kuvan, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Kuvan  
EMA/350999/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
