EMEA/H/C/004090 
Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel) 
An overview of Kymriah and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kymriah and what is it used for? 
Kymriah is a medicine for treating the following types of blood cancer: 
•  B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), in children and young adults up to 25 years of age 
whose cancer did not respond to previous treatment, has come back two or more times, or has 
come back after a transplant of stem cells; 
•  Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma (FL) in adults whose cancer has 
come back or did not respond after two or more previous treatments. 
Kymriah is a type of advanced therapy medicine called a ‘gene therapy product’. This is a type of 
medicine that works by delivering genes into the body. 
The blood cancers that Kymriah is used to treat are rare, and Kymriah was designated an ‘orphan 
medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) for B-cell ALL on 29 April 2014, DLBCL on 14 October 
2016 and FL on 19 July 2021.  
Kymriah contains the active substance tisagenlecleucel (consisting of genetically modified white blood 
cells). 
How is Kymriah used? 
Kymriah is prepared using the patient’s own white blood cells which are extracted from the blood and 
genetically modified in the laboratory.  
It is given as a single infusion (drip) into a vein and must only be given to the patient whose cells were 
used to make it. Before having Kymriah, the patient should have a short course of chemotherapy to 
clear away their white blood cells and just before the infusion, the patient is given paracetamol and an 
antihistamine medicine to reduce the risk of reactions to the infusion. 
A medicine called tocilizumab and emergency equipment must be available in case the patient has a 
potentially serious side effect called cytokine release syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition 
that can cause fever, vomiting, shortness of breath, pain and low blood pressure (see risks section 
below).  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should be closely monitored for 10 days after treatment for side effects and are advised to 
stay close to a specialist hospital for at least 4 weeks after treatment.  
For more information about using Kymriah, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Kymriah work? 
Kymriah contains the patient’s own T cells (a type of white blood cell) that have been modified 
genetically in the laboratory so that they make a protein called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). CAR 
can attach to another protein on the surface of cancer cells called CD19.  
When Kymriah is given to the patient, the modified T cells attach to and kill the cancer cells, thereby 
helping to clear the cancer from the body. 
What benefits of Kymriah have been shown in studies? 
B-cell ALL 
The main study of Kymriah in B-cell ALL involved 92 children and young adults (3–25 years of age) 
whose cancer had come back after previous treatment or did not respond to treatment. Around 66% of 
patients had a complete response (which means they had no signs of the cancer left) in the 3 months 
after treatment. This was better than results seen with the cancer medicines clofarabine, 
blinatumomab or a combination of clofarabine, cyclophosphamide and etoposide. Twelve months after 
treatment, the likelihood of survival was 70%. 
DLBCL 
The main study of Kymriah in DLBCL involved 165 patients who had at least 2 previous treatments and 
could not have a stem cell transplant. Around 24% of patients had a complete response and 34% had 
at least a partial response after at least 3 months. These results were comparable to those from 
studies of patients receiving standard cancer treatments. Twelve months after treatment, the likelihood 
of survival was 40%. The majority of patients who responded to Kymriah continued to have a response 
after 19 months. 
FL 
The main study for FL involved 98 patients whose cancer had come back after previous treatment or 
did not respond to treatment. Patients had at least 2 previous treatments. Around 69% of patients had 
a complete response 3 months after treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Kymriah? 
Serious side effects occur in most patients. The most common serious side effects are cytokine release 
syndrome and decreases in platelets (components that help the blood to clot), haemoglobin (the 
protein found in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body) or white blood cells including 
neutrophils and lymphocytes. 
In addition, serious infections are very common side effects in patients treated for DLBCL and FL. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Kymriah, see the package leaflet. 
Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel)  
EMA/188757/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Kymriah authorised in the EU? 
B-cell ALL patients have poor outcomes and improvements with Kymriah were better than with other 
medicines for this condition. In patients with DLBCL treated with Kymriah, the results were similar to 
other treatments but ongoing study data indicate that the effects last longer. Kymriah was also shown 
to produce a robust response in patients with FL. Serious side effects occur in most patients, and can 
include cytokine release syndrome. However these are manageable if the appropriate measures are in 
place (see below). The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Kymriah’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kymriah? 
The company that markets Kymriah must ensure that hospitals where Kymriah is given have 
appropriate expertise, facilities and training. Tocilizumab must be available in case of cytokine release 
syndrome. The company must provide educational materials for healthcare professionals and patients 
about possible side effects, especially cytokine release syndrome.  
The company must carry out several studies to obtain more information on Kymriah including its safety 
and effectiveness in the long term and in B-cell ALL patients under 3 years of age. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kymriah have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kymriah are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kymriah are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kymriah 
Kymriah received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 August 2018. 
Further information on Kymriah can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2022. 
Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel)  
EMA/188757/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
