ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kymriah 1.2 × 106 – 6 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1  General description 
Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel) is a genetically modified autologous cell-based product containing T cells 
transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector expressing an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) 
comprising a murine anti-CD19 single chain variable fragment (scFv) linked via a human CD8 hinge 
and transmembrane region to an intracellular signalling chain of human 4-1BB (CD137) 
co-stimulatory domain and CD3-zeta signalling domain. 
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition 
Each patient-specific infusion bag of Kymriah contains tisagenlecleucel at a batch-dependent 
concentration of autologous T cells genetically modified to express an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen 
receptor (CAR-positive viable T cells). The medicinal product is packaged in one or more infusion 
bags overall containing a cell dispersion of 1.2 × 106 to 6 × 108 CAR-positive viable T cells in a 
cryopreservative solution. 
The cellular composition and the final cell number varies between individual patient batches. In 
addition to T cells, natural killer (NK) cells may be present. 
Each infusion bag contains 10–30 mL or 30–50 mL of cell dispersion. 
The quantitative information of medicinal product, including the number of infusion bags (see 
section 6) to be administered, is presented on the batch specific documentation accompanying the 
medicinal product for treatment. 
Excipient with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 2.43 mg sodium per mL and 24.3 to 121.5 mg sodium per dose. 
Each bag contains 11 mg dextran 40 and 82.5 mg dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) per mL. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for infusion 
A colourless to slightly yellow dispersion 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Kymriah is indicated for the treatment of: 
• 
Paediatric and young adult patients up to and including 25 years of age with B-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) that is refractory, in relapse post-transplant or in second or later 
relapse. 
Adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or 
more lines of systemic therapy. 
Adult patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) after two or more lines of 
systemic therapy. 
• 
• 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Kymriah must be administered in a qualified treatment centre. Therapy should be initiated under the 
direction of and supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in the treatment of 
haematological malignancies and trained for administration and management of patients treated with 
the medicinal product. 
In the event of cytokine release syndrome (CRS), at least one dose of tocilizumab and emergency 
equipment must be available per patient prior to infusion. The treatment centre must have access to 
additional doses of tocilizumab within 8 hours. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not 
available due to a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, 
suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab must be available prior to infusion. 
Manufacture and release of Kymriah usually takes about 3-4 weeks. 
Posology 
Kymriah is intended for autologous use only (see section 4.4). 
Treatment consists of a single dose for infusion containing a dispersion for infusion of CAR-positive 
viable T cells in one or more infusion bags. 
Dose in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients 
The concentration of CAR-positive viable T cells is dependent on indication and patient body weight. 
For patients 50 kg and below: The dose is within a range of 0.2 to 5 × 106 CAR-positive viable 
- 
T cells per kg body weight. 
For patients above 50 kg: The dose is within a range of 0.1 to 2.5 × 108 CAR-positive viable T 
cells (non-weight based). 
- 
Dose in adult DLBCL and FL patients 
- 
The dose is within a range of 0.6 to 6 × 108 CAR-positive viable T cells (non-weight based). 
See the accompanying batch specific documentation for additional information pertaining to dose. 
Pre-treatment conditioning (lymphodepleting chemotherapy) 
The availability of Kymriah must be confirmed prior to starting the lymphodepleting regimen. For 
B-cell ALL and DLBCL indications, Kymriah is recommended to be infused 2 to 14 days after 
completion of the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. For FL, Kymriah is recommended to be infused 2 
to 6 days after completion of the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
Lymphodepleting chemotherapy may be omitted if a patient is experiencing significant cytopenia, e.g., 
white blood cell (WBC) count ≤1 000 cells/µL within one week prior to infusion. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If there is a delay of more than 4 weeks between completing lymphodepleting chemotherapy and the 
infusion and the WBC count is >1 000 cells/μL, then the patient should be re-treated with 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior to receiving Kymriah. 
B-cell ALL 
The recommended lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen is: 
- 
Fludarabine (30 mg/m2 intravenous daily for 4 days) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2 
intravenous daily for 2 days starting with the first dose of fludarabine). 
If the patient experienced a previous Grade 4 haemorrhagic cystitis with cyclophosphamide, or 
demonstrated a chemorefractory state to a cyclophosphamide-containing regimen administered shortly 
before lymphodepleting chemotherapy, then the following should be used: 
- 
Cytarabine (500 mg/m2 intravenous daily for 2 days) and etoposide (150 mg/m2 intravenous 
daily for 3 days starting with the first dose of cytarabine). 
DLBCL and FL 
The recommended lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen is: 
- 
Fludarabine (25 mg/m2 intravenous daily for 3 days) and cyclophosphamide (250 mg/m2 
intravenous daily for 3 days starting with the first dose of fludarabine). 
If the patient experienced a previous Grade 4 haemorrhagic cystitis with cyclophosphamide, or 
demonstrated a chemorefractory state to a cyclophosphamide-containing regimen administered shortly 
before lymphodepleting chemotherapy, then the following should be used: 
- 
Bendamustine (90 mg/m2 intravenous daily for 2 days). 
Pre-medication 
To minimise potential acute infusion reactions, it is recommended that patients be pre-medicated with 
paracetamol and diphenhydramine or another H1 antihistamine within approximately 30 to 60 minutes 
prior to Kymriah infusion. Corticosteroids should not be used at any time except in the case of a 
life-threatening emergency (see section 4.4). 
Clinical assessment prior to infusion 
Kymriah treatment should be delayed in some patient groups at risk (see section 4.4). 
Monitoring after infusion 
- 
- 
- 
Patients should be monitored daily for the first 10 days following infusion for signs and 
symptoms of potential cytokine release syndrome, neurological events and other toxicities. 
Physicians should consider hospitalisation for the first 10 days post infusion or at the first 
signs/symptoms of cytokine release syndrome and/or neurological events. 
After the first 10 days following the infusion, the patient should be monitored at the physician’s 
discretion. 
Patients should be instructed to remain within proximity (within 2 hours of travel) of a qualified 
clinical facility for at least 4 weeks following infusion. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
B-cell ALL 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah in this population have not been established. 
DLBCL and FL 
No dose adjustment is required in patients over 65 years of age. 
Patients seropositive for hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), or human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
There is no experience with manufacturing Kymriah for patients with a positive test for HIV, active 
HBV, or active HCV infection. Leukapheresis material from these patients will not be accepted for 
Kymriah manufacturing. Screening for HBV, HCV, and HIV must be performed in accordance with 
clinical guidelines before collection of cells for manufacturing. 
Paediatric population 
B-cell ALL 
There is limited experience with Kymriah in paediatric patients below the age of 3 years. Currently 
available data in this age group are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1. 
DLBCL 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah in children and adolescents below 18 years of age have not yet 
been established. Currently available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
FL 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah in children and adolescents below 18 years of age have not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Kymriah is for intravenous use only. 
Preparation for infusion 
Kymriah is intended for autologous use only. Before administration, it must be confirmed that the 
patient’s identity matches the unique patient information on the Kymriah infusion bags and 
accompanying documentation. The total number of infusion bags to be administered should also be 
confirmed with the patient specific information on the batch specific documentation (see section 4.4). 
The timing of thaw of Kymriah and infusion should be coordinated (please refer to section 6.6). 
Administration 
Kymriah should be administered as an intravenous infusion through latex-free intravenous tubing 
without a leukocyte depleting filter, at approximately 10 to 20 mL per minute by gravity flow. 
If the volume of Kymriah to be administered is ≤20 mL, intravenous push may be used as an 
alternative method of administration. 
For detailed instructions on preparation, administration, measures to take in case of accidental 
exposure and disposal of Kymriah, see section 6.6. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Contraindications of the lymphodepleting chemotherapy must be considered. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the medicinal product, the batch number and the name of the treated 
patient must be kept for a period of 30 years after expiry date of the medicinal product. 
Autologous use 
Kymriah is intended solely for autologous use and must not, under any circumstances, be administered 
to other patients. Kymriah must not be administered if the information on the product labels and batch 
specific documentation do not match the patient’s identity. 
Reasons to delay treatment 
Due to the risks associated with tisagenlecleucel treatment, infusion should be delayed if a patient has 
any of the following conditions: 
- 
Unresolved serious adverse reactions (especially pulmonary reactions, cardiac reactions or 
hypotension) from preceding chemotherapies. 
Active uncontrolled infection. 
Active graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). 
Significant clinical worsening of leukaemia burden or rapid progression of lymphoma following 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
- 
- 
- 
Transmission of an infectious agent 
Although Kymriah is tested for sterility and mycoplasma, a risk of transmission of infectious agents 
exists. Healthcare professionals administering Kymriah must, therefore, monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of infections after treatment and treat appropriately, if needed. 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Kymriah must not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells for transplantation. This 
information is provided in the Patient Alert Card which should be given to the patient after treatment. 
Active central nervous system (CNS) leukaemia or lymphoma 
There is limited experience of use of Kymriah in patients with active CNS leukaemia and active CNS 
lymphoma. Therefore, the risk/benefit of Kymriah has not been established in these populations. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytokine release syndrome 
Cytokine release syndrome, including fatal or life-threatening events, has been frequently observed 
after Kymriah infusion (see section 4.8). In almost all cases, development of cytokine release 
syndrome occurred between 1 to 10 days (median onset 3 days) after Kymriah infusion in paediatric 
and young adult B-cell ALL patients, between 1 and 9 days (median onset 3 days) after Kymriah 
infusion in adult DLBCL patients and between 1 to 14 days (median onset 4 days) after Kymriah 
infusion in adult FL patients. The median time to resolution of cytokine release syndrome was 8 days 
in B-cell ALL patients, 7 days in DLBCL patients and 4 days in FL patients. 
Symptoms of cytokine release syndrome may include high fever, rigors, myalgia, arthralgia, nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea, diaphoresis, rash, anorexia, fatigue, headache, hypotension, dyspnoea, 
tachypnoea, hypoxia, and tachycardia. Organ dysfunction, including cardiac insufficiency, renal 
insufficiency and liver injury with accompanying elevated aspartate aminotransferase (AST), elevated 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or elevated total bilirubin may also be observed. In some cases, 
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with low fibrinogen levels, capillary leak syndrome 
(CLS), macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) and haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) 
may occur in the setting of cytokine release syndrome. Patients should be closely monitored for signs 
or symptoms of these events, including fever. 
Risk factors for severe cytokine release syndrome in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients 
are: high pre-infusion tumour burden, uncontrolled or accelerating tumour burden following 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy, active infection and early onset of fever or cytokine release syndrome 
following Kymriah infusion. High tumour burden prior to Kymriah infusion was identified as a risk 
factor for developing severe cytokine release syndrome in adult DLBCL patients. 
Prior to administration of Kymriah in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients, efforts should 
be made to lower and control the patient’s tumour burden. 
In all indications, appropriate prophylactic and therapeutic treatment for infections should be provided, 
and complete resolution of any existing infections should be ensured. Infections may also occur during 
cytokine release syndrome and may increase the risk of a fatal event. 
Management of cytokine release syndrome associated with Kymriah 
Cytokine release syndrome should be managed solely based on the patient’s clinical presentation and 
according to the cytokine release syndrome management algorithm provided in Table 1. Anti-IL-6 
based therapy such as tocilizumab has been administered for moderate or severe cytokine release 
syndrome associated with Kymriah. One dose of tocilizumab per patient must be on site and available 
for administration prior to Kymriah infusion. The treatment centre should have access to additional 
doses of tocilizumab within 8 hours. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to 
a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, the treatment centre 
must have access to suitable alternative measures instead of tocilizumab to treat CRS. 
Corticosteroids may be administered in cases of life-threatening emergencies. Tisagenlecleucel 
continues to expand and persist following administration of tocilizumab and corticosteroids. Patients 
with medically significant cardiac dysfunction should be managed by standards of critical care and 
measures such as echocardiography should be considered. Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists 
are not recommended for management of Kymriah-associated cytokine release syndrome. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Cytokine release syndrome management algorithm 
Tocilizumab 
Corticosteroids 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
If no improvement after 
symptomatic treatment 
administer tocilizumab 
intravenously over 1 hour: 
-  8 mg/kg (max. 800 mg) 
if body weight ≥30 kg 
-  12 mg/kg if body weight 
<30 kg 
If no improvement, repeat 
every 8 hours (max total of 
4 doses)* 
If no improvement 
within 12-18 hours of 
tocilizumab, administer 
a daily dose of 2 mg/kg 
intravenously 
methylprednisolone (or 
equivalent) until 
vasopressor and 
oxygen no longer 
needed, then taper* 
Cytokine release 
syndrome severity 
Mild symptoms requiring 
symptomatic treatment 
only, e.g. 
low fever 
- 
- 
fatigue 
-  anorexia 
Symptoms requiring 
moderate intervention: 
-  high fever 
-  hypoxia 
-  mild hypotension 
Symptom requiring 
aggressive intervention: 
-  hypoxia requiring 
high-flow oxygen 
supplementation or 
-  hypotension requiring 
high-dose or multiple 
vasopressors 
Life-threatening 
symptoms: 
- 
haemodynamic 
instability despite 
intravenous fluids 
and vasopressors 
-  worsening 
- 
respiratory distress 
rapid clinical 
deterioration 
Symptomatic 
treatment 
Exclude other causes 
(e.g. infection) and 
treat specific symptoms 
with, for example, 
antipyretics, anti-
emetics, analgesics, 
etc. 
If neutropenic, 
administer antibiotics 
per local guidelines 
Antipyretics, oxygen, 
intravenous fluids 
and/or low-dose 
vasopressors as needed 
Treat other organ 
toxicities as per local 
guidance 
High-flow oxygen 
Intravenous fluids and 
high-dose 
vasopressor(s) 
Treat other organ 
toxicities as per local 
guidelines 
Mechanical ventilation 
Intravenous fluids and 
high-dose 
vasopressor(s) 
Treat other organ 
toxicities as per local 
guidelines 
* If no improvement after tocilizumab and steroids, consider other anti-cytokine and anti-T-cell therapies 
following institutional policy and published guidelines. 
Alternative cytokine release syndrome management strategies may be implemented based on 
appropriate institutional or academic guidelines. 
Neurological adverse reactions 
Neurological events, in particular encephalopathy, confusional state or delirium, occur frequently with 
Kymriah and can be severe or life-threatening (see section 4.8). Other manifestations included 
depressed level of consciousness, seizures, aphasia and speech disorder. The majority of neurological 
events occurred within 8 weeks following Kymriah infusion and were transient. The median time to 
onset of the first neurological events occurring at any time following Kymriah infusion was 9 days in 
B-cell ALL, 6 days in DLBCL, and 9 days in FL. The median time to resolution was 7 days for B-cell 
ALL, 13 days for DLBCL, and 2 days for FL. Neurological events can be concurrent with cytokine 
release syndrome, following resolution of cytokine release syndrome or in the absence of cytokine 
release syndrome. 
Patients should be monitored for neurological events. In case of neurological events, patients should 
be diagnostically worked up and managed depending on the underlying pathophysiology and in 
accordance with local standard of care. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections and febrile neutropenia 
Patients with active, uncontrolled infection should not start Kymriah treatment until the infection is 
resolved. Prior to Kymriah infusion, infection prophylaxis should follow standard guidelines based on 
the degree of preceding immunosuppression. 
Serious infections, including life-threatening or fatal infections, in some cases with late onset, 
occurred frequently in patients after Kymriah infusion (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored 
for signs and symptoms of infection and treated appropriately. As appropriate, prophylactic antibiotics 
should be administered and surveillance testing should be employed prior to and during treatment with 
Kymriah. Infections are known to complicate the course and management of concurrent cytokine 
release syndrome. The possibility of opportunistic infections of the central nervous system should be 
considered in patients with neurological adverse events and appropriate diagnostic evaluations should 
be performed. 
Febrile neutropenia was frequently observed in patients after Kymriah infusion (see section 4.8) and 
may be concurrent with cytokine release syndrome. In the event of febrile neutropenia, infection 
should be evaluated and managed appropriately with broad-spectrum antibiotics, fluids and other 
supportive care, as medically indicated. 
In patients achieving complete remission following Kymriah, resulting low immunoglobulin levels can 
increase the risk for infections. Attention to signs and symptoms of infection should be implemented 
according to age and standard specific guidelines. 
Prolonged cytopenias 
Patients may continue to exhibit cytopenias for several weeks following lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy and Kymriah infusion and should be managed according to standard guidelines. The 
majority of patients who had cytopenias at day 28 following Kymriah treatment resolved to Grade 2 or 
below within three months after treatment for paediatric ALL and DLBCL patients, and within six 
months for FL patients. Prolonged neutropenia has been associated with increased risk of infection. 
Myeloid growth factors, particularly granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), 
have the potential to worsen cytokine release syndrome symptoms and are not recommended during 
the first 3 weeks after Kymriah infusion or until cytokine release syndrome has resolved. 
Secondary malignancies 
Patients treated with Kymriah may develop secondary malignancies or recurrence of their cancer. 
They should be monitored life-long for secondary malignancies. In the event that a secondary 
malignancy occurs, the company should be contacted to obtain instructions on patient samples to 
collect for testing. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia and agammaglobulinaemia can occur in patients after Kymriah infusion. 
Immunoglobulin levels should be monitored after treatment with Kymriah. In patients with low 
immunoglobulin levels pre-emptive measures such as infection precautions, antibiotic prophylaxis and 
immunoglobulin replacement should be taken according to age and standard guidelines. 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
TLS, which may be severe, has occasionally been observed. To minimise risk of TLS, patients with 
elevated uric acid or high tumour burden should receive allopurinol, or an alternative prophylaxis, 
prior to Kymriah infusion. Signs and symptoms of TLS should be monitored and events managed 
according to standard guidelines. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant disease 
Patients with a history of active CNS disorder or inadequate renal, hepatic, pulmonary or cardiac 
function were excluded from the studies. These patient are likely to be more vulnerable to the 
consequences of the adverse reactions described below and require special attention. 
Prior stem cell transplantation 
It is not recommended that patients receive Kymriah within 4 months of undergoing an allogeneic 
stem cell transplant (SCT) because of the potential risk of Kymriah worsening GVHD. Leukapheresis 
for Kymriah manufacturing should be performed at least 12 weeks after allogeneic SCT. 
Serological testing 
There is currently no experience with manufacturing Kymriah for patients testing positive for HBV, 
HCV and HIV. 
Screening for HBV, HCV and HIV must be performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before 
collection of cells for manufacturing. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation, can occur in patients 
treated with medicinal products directed against B cells and could result in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic 
failure and death. 
Prior treatment with anti-CD19 therapy 
There is limited experience with Kymriah in patients exposed to prior CD19-directed therapy. While 
activity of tisagenlecleucel has been observed, data are currently too limited to make an adequate 
assessment of the benefit-risk profile in these patients. Kymriah is not recommended if the patient has 
relapsed with CD19-negative leukaemia after prior anti-CD19 therapy. 
Interference with virological testing 
Due to limited and short spans of identical genetic information between the lentiviral vector used to 
create Kymriah and HIV, some commercial HIV nucleic acid tests (NAT) may give a false positive 
result. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may be due to dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 
and dextran 40 in Kymriah. All patients should be observed closely during the infusion period. 
Long-term follow-up 
Patients are expected to be enrolled in a registry in order to better understand the long-term safety and 
efficacy of Kymriah. 
Sodium and potassium content 
This medicinal product contains 24.3 to 121.5 mg sodium per dose, equivalent to 1 to 6% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
This medicinal product contains potassium, less than 1 mmol (39 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially 
“potassium-free”. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies with tisagenlecleucel have been 
performed in either the paediatric or adult population. The co-administration of agents known to 
inhibit T-cell function has not been formally studied. Administration of low-dose steroids as per the 
cytokine release syndrome treatment algorithm does not impact the expansion and persistence of 
CAR-T cells. The co-administration of agents known to stimulate T-cell function has not been 
investigated and the effects are unknown. 
Live vaccines 
The safety of immunisation with live vaccines during or following Kymriah treatment has not been 
studied. As a precautionary measure, vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended for at least 
6 weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during Kymriah treatment, and until 
immune recovery following treatment. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Pregnancy status for females of child-bearing age should be verified prior to starting treatment with 
Kymriah. 
See the prescribing information for lymphodepleting chemotherapy for information on the need for 
effective contraception in patients who receive the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
There are insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation concerning duration of 
contraception following treatment with Kymriah. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of tisagenlecleucel in pregnant women. No animal studies have been 
conducted with tisagenlecleucel to assess whether it can cause foetal harm when administered to a 
pregnant woman (see section 5.3). It is not known whether tisagenlecleucel has the potential to be 
transferred to the foetus via the placenta and could cause foetal toxicity, including B-cell 
lymphocytopenia. Kymriah is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing 
potential not using contraception. 
Pregnant women should be advised on the potential risks to the foetus. Pregnancy after Kymriah 
therapy should be discussed with the treating physician. Pregnant women who have received Kymriah 
may have hypogammaglobulinaemia. Assessment of immunoglobulin levels is indicated in newborns 
of mothers treated with Kymriah. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether tisagenlecleucel cells are excreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed infant 
cannot be excluded. Women who are breast-feeding should be advised of the potential risk to the 
breast-fed infant. 
Following administration of Kymriah, breast-feeding should be discussed with the treating physician. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effect of Kymriah on fertility. Effects of Kymriah on male and female fertility 
have not been evaluated in animal studies. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Kymriah has major influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Due to the potential for neurological events, including altered mental status or seizures, patients 
receiving Kymriah are at risk for altered or decreased consciousness or coordination and must refrain 
from driving or operating heavy or potentially dangerous machines for 8 weeks following Kymriah 
infusion. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Safety assessment was based on a total of 424 patients (with paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL, 
DLBCL and FL) who received Kymriah in three multicentre pivotal clinical studies. 
B-cell ALL 
The adverse reactions described in this section were characterised in 212 patients infused with 
Kymriah in the pivotal clinical study CCTL019B2202 and in the supportive studies CCTL019B2205J 
and CCTL019B2001X. 
The most common non-haematological adverse reactions were cytokine release syndrome (75%), 
infections (70%), hypogammaglobulinaemia (49%), pyrexia (43%) and decreased appetite (28%). 
The most common haematological laboratory abnormalities were decreased white blood cells (100%), 
decreased haemoglobin (99%), decreased neutrophils (98%), decreased lymphocytes (98%) and 
decreased platelets (95%). 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were reported in 86% of patients. The most common Grade 3 and 4 
non-haematological adverse reaction was cytokine release syndrome (37%). 
The most common Grade 3 and 4 haematological laboratory abnormalities were white blood cells 
decreased (97%), lymphocytes decreased (94%), neutrophils decreased (96%), platelets decreased 
(70%) and haemoglobin decreased (46%). 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were more often observed within the initial 8 weeks post-infusion 
(78% of patients) compared to after 8 weeks post-infusion (49% of patients). 
DLBCL 
The adverse reactions described in this section were characterised in 115 patients infused with 
Kymriah in one global multicentre international study, i.e. the ongoing pivotal clinical study 
CCTL019C2201. 
The most common non-haematological adverse reactions were cytokine release syndrome (57%), 
infections (58%), pyrexia (35%), diarrhoea (31%), nausea (29%), fatigue (27%) and hypotension 
(25%). 
The most common haematological laboratory abnormalities were decreased lymphocytes (100%), 
decreased white blood cells (99%), decreased haemoglobin (99%), decreased neutrophils (97%), and 
decreased platelets (95%). 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were reported in 88% of patients. The most common Grade 3 and 4 
non-haematological adverse reactions were infections (34%) and cytokine release syndrome (23%). 
The most common (>25%) Grade 3 and 4 haematological laboratory abnormalities were lymphocyte 
count decreased (95%), neutrophil count decreased (82%), white blood cell count decreased (78%), 
haemoglobin decreased (59%) and platelet count decreased (56%). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were more often observed within the initial 8 weeks post-infusion 
(82%) compared to after 8 weeks post-infusion (48%). 
FL 
The adverse reactions described in this section were characterised in 97 patients infused with Kymriah 
in one global multicentre international study, i.e. the ongoing pivotal clinical study CCTL019E2202. 
The most common non-haematological adverse reactions (>25%) were cytokine release syndrome 
(50%), infections (50%) and headache (26%). 
The most common haematological laboratory abnormalities were decreased haemoglobin (94%), 
decreased lymphocytes (92%), decreased white blood cells (91%), decreased neutrophils (89%) and 
decreased platelets (89%). 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were reported in 75% of patients. The most common Grade 3 and 4 
non-haematological adverse reactions were infections (16%). 
The most common (>25%) Grade 3 and 4 haematological laboratory abnormalities were lymphocyte 
count decreased (87%), white blood cell count decreased (74%), neutrophil count decreased (71%), 
platelet count decreased (26%) and haemoglobin decreased (25%). 
Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions were more often observed within the initial 8 weeks post-infusion 
(70%) compared to after 8 weeks post-infusion (40%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions described in this section were identified in 79, 115 and 97 patients in the 
ongoing multicentre pivotal clinical studies (CCTL019B2202, CCTL019C2201 and CCTL019E2202), 
as well as 64 and 69 patients in the supportive studies (CCTL019B2205J and CCTL019B2001X). 
Adverse drug reactions from these clinical studies (Table 2) are listed by MedDRA system organ 
class. Within each system organ class, the adverse drug reactions are ranked by frequency, with the 
most frequent reactions first, using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 
to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000); not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse drug 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2 
Adverse drug reactions observed in clinical studies 
Infections and infestations1) 
Very common: 
Common: 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Immune system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Infections - pathogen unspecified, viral infections, bacterial infections 
Fungal infections 
Anaemia, febrile neutropenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia 
Leukopenia, pancytopenia, coagulopathy, lymphopenia 
B-cell aplasia 
Cytokine release syndrome, hypogammaglobulinaemia2) 
Infusion-related reaction, graft-versus-host disease3), haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis 
Decreased appetite, hypokalaemia, hypophosphataemia 
Hypomagnesaemia, hypoalbuminaemia4), hyperglycaemia, hyponatraemia, 
hyperuricaemia5), hypercalcaemia, tumour lysis syndrome, hyperkalaemia, 
hyperphosphataemia6), hypernatraemia, hyperferritinaemia7), hypocalcaemia 
Hypermagnesaemia 
Uncommon: 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common: 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Anxiety, delirium8), sleep disorder9) 
Headache10), encephalopathy11) 
Dizziness12), peripheral neuropathy13), tremor14), motor dysfunction15), seizure16), 
speech disorders17), neuralgia18) 
Ischaemic cerebral infarction, ataxia19), immune effector cell-associated 
neurotoxicity syndrome** 
Visual impairment20) 
Tachycardia21) 
Cardiac failure22), cardiac arrest, atrial fibrillation 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Eye disorders 
Common: 
Cardiac disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Vascular disorders 
Haemorrhage23), hypotension24), hypertension 
Very common: 
Thrombosis25), capillary leak syndrome 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Flushing 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cough26), dyspnoea27), hypoxia 
Very common: 
Oropharyngeal pain28), pulmonary oedema29), nasal congestion, pleural 
Common: 
effusion, tachypnoea 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome, lung infiltration 
Rash31) 
Pruritus, erythema, hyperhidrosis, night sweats 
Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, constipation, abdominal pain30) 
Stomatitis, abdominal distension, dry mouth, ascites 
Uncommon: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Very common: 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Pyrexia, fatigue34), oedema35), pain36) 
Very common: 
Common: 
Influenza-like illness, asthenia, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, chills 
Investigations 
Very common: 
Arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain32) 
Myalgia 
Acute kidney injury33) 
Lymphocyte count decreased*, white blood cell count decreased*, 
haemoglobin decreased*, neutrophil count decreased*, platelet count 
decreased*, hepatic enzyme increased37) 
Blood bilirubin increased, weight decreased, blood fibrinogen decreased, 
international normalised ratio increased, fibrin D dimer increased, activated 
partial thromboplastin time prolonged, prothrombin time prolonged 
Common: 
1) 
2) 
3) 
4) 
5) 
Infections and infestations presented reflect high-level group terms. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia includes blood immunoglobulin A decreased, blood 
immunoglobulin G decreased, blood immunoglobulin M decreased, 
hypogammaglobulinaemia, immunodeficiency, immunodeficiency common variable and 
immunoglobulins decreased. 
Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) includes GvHD, GvHD in gastrointestinal tract, GvHD in 
skin 
Hypoalbuminaemia includes blood albumin decreased, hypoalbuminaemia 
Hyperuricaemia includes blood uric acid increased, hyperuricaemia 
14 
6) 
7) 
8) 
9) 
10) 
11) 
12) 
13) 
Hyperphosphataemia includes blood phosphorus increased, hyperphosphataemia 
Hyperferritinaemia includes hyperferritinaemia, serum ferritin increased 
Delirium includes agitation, delirium, hallucination, hallucination visual, irritability and 
restlessness. 
Sleep disorder includes insomnia, nightmare and sleep disorder. 
Headache includes headache and migraine. 
Encephalopathy includes automatism, cognitive disorder, confusional state, depressed level 
of consciousness, disturbance in attention, encephalopathy, lethargy, memory impairment, 
mental status changes, metabolic encephalopathy, somnolence and thinking abnormal. 
Encephalopathy is a dominant feature of immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity 
syndrome (ICANS), along with other symptoms. 
Dizziness includes dizziness, presyncope and syncope. 
Peripheral neuropathy includes dysaesthesia, hyperaesthesia, hypoaesthesia, neuropathy 
peripheral, paraesthesia and peripheral sensory neuropathy. 
Tremor includes dyskinesia and tremor. 
23) 
14) 
15)  Motor dysfunction includes muscle spasms, muscle twitching, myoclonus and myopathy. 
16) 
Seizure includes generalised tonic-clonic seizures, seizure and status epilepticus. 
17) 
Speech disorders includes aphasia, dysarthria and speech disorders. 
18) 
Neuralgia includes neuralgia and sciatica. 
19) 
Ataxia includes ataxia and dysmetria. 
20) 
Visual impairment includes vision blurred and visual impairment. 
21) 
Tachycardia includes sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, tachycardia 
22) 
Cardiac failure includes cardiac failure, cardiac failure congestive, left ventricular 
dysfunction and right ventricular dysfunction. 
Haemorrhage includes anal haemorrhage, blood blister, blood urine present, catheter site 
haemorrhage, cerebral haemorrhage, conjunctival haemorrhage, contusion, cystitis 
haemorrhagic, disseminated intravascular coagulation, duodenal ulcer haemorrhage, 
ecchymosis, epistaxis, eye contusion, gastrointestinal haemorrhage, gingival bleeding, 
haemarthrosis, haematemesis, haematochezia, haematoma, haematuria, haemoptysis, heavy 
menstrual bleeding, injection site haematoma, intermenstrual bleeding, large intestinal 
haemorrhage, lip haemorrhage, melaena, mouth haemorrhage, mucosal haemorrhage, oral 
blood blister, periorbital haematoma, peritoneal haematoma, petechiae, pharyngeal 
haemorrhage, postprocedural haemorrhage, pulmonary haemorrhage, purpura, rectal 
haemorrhage, retinal haemorrhage, stoma site haemorrhage, subcutaneous haematoma, 
subdural haematoma, subdural haemorrhage, tooth socket haemorrhage, tracheal 
haemorrhage, traumatic haematoma, tumour haemorrhage, upper gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage and vaginal haemorrhage. 
Hypotension includes hypotension and orthostatic hypotension. 
Thrombosis includes deep vein thrombosis, embolism, pulmonary embolism, thrombosis, 
vena cava thrombosis and venous thrombosis. 
Cough includes cough, productive cough and upper-airway cough syndrome. 
Dyspnoea includes acute respiratory failure, dyspnoea, dyspnoea exertional, respiratory 
distress and respiratory failure. 
Oropharyngeal pain includes oral pain and oropharyngeal pain. 
Pulmonary oedema includes acute pulmonary oedema and pulmonary oedema. 
Abdominal pain includes abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, 
abdominal pain upper and gastrointestinal pain. 
Rash includes dermatitis, dermatitis acneiform, dermatitis contact, rash, rash maculo-papular, 
rash papular and rash pruritic. 
28) 
29) 
30) 
24) 
25) 
26) 
27) 
31) 
32)  Musculoskeletal pain includes back pain, bone pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, 
33) 
34) 
35) 
musculoskeletal pain, neck pain, non-cardiac chest pain. 
Acute kidney injury includes acute kidney injury, anuria, azotaemia, blood creatinine 
abnormal, blood creatinine increased, blood urea increased, renal failure, renal tubular 
dysfunction and renal tubular necrosis. 
Fatigue includes fatigue and malaise. 
Oedema includes face oedema, fluid retention, generalised oedema, hypervolaemia, localised 
oedema, oedema peripheral, periorbital oedema and peripheral swelling. 
15 
36) 
37) 
* 
Pain includes pain and pain in extremity. 
Hepatic enzyme increased includes alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate 
aminotransferase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased, hepatic enzyme increased, 
transaminases increased. 
Frequency is based on laboratory values. Patients are counted only for the worst grade 
observed post baseline. 
**  Abbreviated as ICANS. Symptoms or signs can be progressive and may include aphasia, 
altered level of consciousness, impairment of cognitive skills, motor weakness, seizures, and 
cerebral oedema. 
Description of selected adverse drug reactions 
Cytokine release syndrome 
In the clinical studies in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL (N=212), cytokine release syndrome 
was reported in 75% of patients (37% with Grade 3 or 4; 0.5% [1 patient] with fatal outcome). 
In the ongoing clinical study in DLBCL (N=115), cytokine release syndrome was reported in 57% of 
patients (23% with Grade 3 or 4). 
In the ongoing clinical study in FL (N=97), cytokine release syndrome was reported in 50% of 
patients. No Grade 3 or 4 events were reported. 
Cytokine release syndrome was graded per Penn criteria in the paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL 
and DLBCL studies as follows: Grade 1: mild reactions, reactions requiring supportive care; 
Grade 2: moderate reactions, reactions requiring intravenous therapies; Grade 3: severe reactions, 
reactions requiring low-dose vasopressors or supplemental oxygen; Grade 4: life-threatening reactions, 
those requiring high-dose vasopressors or intubation; Grade 5: death. 
Cytokine release syndrome was graded per the Lee criteria in the FL study as follows: Grade 1: mild 
general symptoms requiring symptomatic treatment; Grade 2: symptoms requiring moderate 
intervention such as low-flow oxygen supplementation or low-dose vasopressor; Grade 3: symptoms 
requiring aggressive intervention, such as high-flow oxygen supplementation and high-dose 
vasopressor; Grade 4: life-threatening symptoms requiring intubation; Grade 5: death. 
For clinical management of cytokine release syndrome, see section 4.4 and Table 1. 
Infections and febrile neutropenia 
In B-cell ALL patients severe infections (Grade 3 and higher), which can be life-threatening or fatal, 
occurred in 36% of patients after Kymriah infusion. The overall incidence (all grades) was 70% 
(unspecified 55%, viral 31%, bacterial 24% and fungal 12%) (see section 4.4). 41% of the patients 
experienced an infection of any type within 8 weeks after Kymriah infusion. 
In DLBCL patients severe infections (Grade 3 and higher), which can be life-threatening or fatal, 
occurred in 34% of patients. The overall incidence (all grades) was 58% (unspecified 48%, bacterial 
15%, fungal 11% and viral 11%) (see section 4.4). 37% of the patients experienced an infection of any 
type within 8 weeks. 
In FL patients severe infections (Grade 3 or 4), occurred in 16% of patients. The overall incidence (all 
grades) was 50% (unspecified 36%, viral 17%, bacterial 6%, and fungal 2%) (see section 4.4). 19% of 
the patients experienced an infection of any type within 8 weeks. 
Severe febrile neutropenia (Grade 3 or 4) was observed in 26% of paediatric and young adult B-cell 
ALL patients, 17% of DLBCL patients and 12% of FL patients. See section 4.4 for the management of 
febrile neutropenia before and after Kymriah infusion. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prolonged cytopenias 
Cytopenias are very common based on prior chemotherapies and Kymriah therapy. 
All paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients had a Grade 3 or 4 cytopenia at some time after 
Kymriah infusion. Grade 3 and 4 cytopenias not resolved by day 28 after Kymriah infusion based on 
laboratory findings included decreased count of white blood cells (50%), neutrophils (56%), 
lymphocytes (43%), and thrombocytes (32%) and decreased haemoglobin (11%). 
All adult DLBCL patients had Grade 3 and 4 cytopenias at some time after Kymriah infusion. Grade 3 
and 4 cytopenias not resolved by day 28 based on laboratory findings included decreased count of 
thrombocytes (39%), lymphocytes (29%), neutrophils (25%), and white blood cells (21%) and 
decreased haemoglobin (14%). 
In adult patients with FL, 99% had Grade 3 and 4 cytopenias at any time post Kymriah infusion. 
Grade 3 and 4 cytopenias not resolved by day 28 after Kymriah infusion based on laboratory findings 
included a decreased count of lymphocytes (23%), thrombocytes (17%), neutrophils (16%), white 
blood cells (13%) and decreased haemoglobin (3%). 
Neurological adverse reactions 
The majority of neurotoxic events occurred within 8 weeks following infusion and were transient. 
In paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients, serious neurological adverse reactions including 
manifestations of encephalopathy and/or delirium occurred in 32% of patients (10% were Grade 3 or 
4) within 8 weeks after Kymriah infusion. In DLBCL patients, manifestations of encephalopathy 
and/or delirium occurred in 20% of patients (11% were Grade 3 or 4) within 8 weeks after Kymriah 
infusion. In FL patients, these occurred in 9% of patients (1% Grade 3 or 4) within 8 weeks after 
Kymriah infusion. Among the neurotoxic events in FL patients, immune effector cell-associated 
neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) occurred in 4% of patients (1% Grade 3 or 4), all within 8 weeks of 
Kymriah infusion. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia was reported in 49% of patients treated with Kymriah for r/r ALL, 17% of 
patients with r/r DLBCL and 17% of patients with r/r FL. 
Pregnant women who have received Kymriah may have hypogammaglobulinaemia. Immunoglobulin 
levels should be assessed in newborns of mothers treated with Kymriah. 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies, humoral immunogenicity of tisagenlecleucel was measured by determination of 
anti-murine CAR19 antibodies (anti-mCAR19) in serum pre- and post-administration. The majority of 
patients tested positive for pre-dose anti-mCAR19 antibodies in paediatric and young adult ALL 
(B2202, B2205J, B2001X, 84.0%), adult DLBCL (C2201, 93.9%) and adult FL (E2202, 66.0%) 
patients. 
Treatment-induced anti-mCAR19 antibodies were found in 40.5% of paediatric and young adult ALL 
(B2202), 8.7% of adult DLBCL and 28.7% of adult FL patients. Pre-existing and treatment-induced 
antibodies were not associated with an impact on clinical response nor did they have an impact on the 
expansion and persistence of tisagenlecleucel. There is no evidence that the presence of pre-existing 
and treatment-induced anti-mCAR19 antibodies impacts the safety or effectiveness of Kymriah. 
T-cell immunogenicity responses were not observed in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL, adult 
r/r DLBCL and adult FL patients. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety of tisagenlecleucel in r/r B-cell ALL paediatric patients from 3 years of age and older was 
assessed in 212 patients in the pivotal study B2202 and the supportive studies B2205J and B2001X in 
which the majority of patients (81%) were under 18 years old (65/79 in B2202, 54/64 in B2205 and 
52/69 in B2001X). The frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in paediatric patients are 
reflected in “Summary of the safety profile” and in Table 2 above. 
The safety of tisagenlecleucel in r/r B-cell ALL paediatric patients below 3 years of age was assessed 
in the observational study B2401 (n=43) where the overall safety experience was generally consistent 
with the known safety profile of tisagenlecleucel. 
Post-marketing experience 
The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with 
Kymriah via spontaneous case reports, literature cases, expanded access programs, and clinical studies 
other than the global registration studies. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a 
population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a 
causal relationship to tisagenlecleucel exposure. 
Frequency unknown: Anaphylactic reaction/infusion related reaction, neurotoxicity. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose has not been reported. 
In case of overdose, the potential risk is an increased probability of developing CRS including severe 
CRS. For close monitoring, see section 4.2; for symptoms and management of CRS, see section 4.4. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XL04. 
Mechanism of action 
Tisagenlecleucel is an autologous, immunocellular cancer therapy which involves reprogramming a 
patient’s own T cells with a transgene encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to identify and 
eliminate CD19 expressing cells. The CAR is comprised of a murine single chain antibody fragment 
which recognises CD19 and is fused to intracellular signalling domains from 4-1BB (CD137) and 
CD3 zeta. The CD3 zeta component is critical for initiating T-cell activation and anti-tumour activity, 
while 4-1BB enhances the expansion and persistence of tisagenlecleucel. Upon binding to 
CD19-expressing cells, the CAR transmits a signal promoting T-cell expansion and persistence of 
tisagenlecleucel. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah treatment in paediatric and young adult patients up to and 
including 25 years of age, with relapsed or refractory (r/r) B-cell ALL were evaluated in a total of 
203 patients in one pivotal (B2202, N=79) and two supportive (B2205J, N=64, and B2101J, N=60) 
open-label, single-arm phase I/II studies. All patients had leukapheresis products collected and 
cryopreserved prior to or during study entry. 
The pivotal study B2202 (ELIANA) is a multicentre, single-arm phase II study in paediatric and 
young adult patients with r/r B-cell ALL. Of 97 patients enrolled, 79 received infusion with Kymriah; 
for 8 patients (8%) Kymriah could not be manufactured; reasons for discontinuation prior to Kymriah 
infusion included death (n=7; 7%) or adverse events (n=3; 3%) while awaiting Kymriah 
manufacturing in the clinical study. The median duration of study follow-up defined as the time from 
Kymriah infusion to the date of completion or discontinuation from follow-up prior to the data cut-off 
date was 16.0 months (range: 0.4-34.4). The median time from Kymriah infusion to the data cut-off 
date was 24.2 months (range: 4.5-35.1). The study is still ongoing. 
Key baseline information for enrolled and infused patients is presented in Table 3. The majority of 
patients (69/79, 87%) received bridging therapy while waiting for Kymriah. A total of 76 out of 
79 patients (96%) who received Kymriah infusion also received lymphodepleting chemotherapy after 
enrolment and prior to infusion of a single dose of Kymriah (see section 4.2 for condition of 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy). 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Study B2202: Baseline information across the enrolled and the infused patient 
population 
Age (years) 
Mean (standard deviation) 
Median (minimum – maximum) 
Age category (years) - n (%) 
<10 years 
≥10 years and <18 years 
≥18 years 
Sex - n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Disease status - n (%) 
Primary refractory1 
Relapsed disease2 
Prior stem-cell transplantation - n (%) 
0 
1 
2 
Enrolled 
N=97 
n (%) 
12 (5.48) 
11 (3 – 27) 
40 (41.2) 
40 (41.2) 
17 (17.5) 
54 (55.7)  
43 (44.3) 
8 (8.2) 
89 (91.8) 
39 (40.2) 
50 (51.5) 
8 (8.2) 
Infused 
N=79 
n (%) 
12 (5.38) 
11 (3 – 24) 
32 (40.5) 
33 (41.8) 
14 (17.7) 
45 (57.0) 
34 (43) 
6 (7.6) 
73 (92.4) 
31 (39.2) 
42 (53.2) 
6 (7.6) 
1Primary refractory: Never had a morphologic complete remission (CR) prior to the study; 
2Relapsed disease: Had at least one relapse prior to the study 
Efficacy was established through the primary endpoint of overall remission rate (ORR), which 
includes best overall response as complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete 
blood count recovery (CRi) within 3 months post infusion, as determined by Independent Review 
Committee (IRC) assessment, as well as secondary endpoints including duration of remission (DOR) 
and the proportion of patients who achieved CR or CRi with minimal residual disease (MRD) <0.01% 
by flow cytometry (MRD-negative). See Table 4 for efficacy results from this study. ORR was 
consistent across all subgroups. Eight patients (10.1%) who achieved CR/CRi after Kymriah infusion 
went to haematopoietic stem cell transplant while in remission of which 6 of the patients (7.6%) 
proceeded to transplant within the first 6 months post-infusion while in remission. Kymriah was 
administered in a qualified Kymriah treatment centre in an inpatient and outpatient setting. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Study B2202: Efficacy results in paediatric and young adult patients with 
relapsed/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) 
Primary endpoint 
Overall remission rate (ORR)1,2, n (%) 
95% CI 
  CR3, n (%) 
  CRi4, n (%) 
Key secondary endpoint 
CR or CRi with MRD negative bone marrow5,6, n 
(%) 
95% CI 
Duration of remission (DOR)7 
% event free probability at 12 months 
% event free probability at 18 months 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Other secondary endpoint 
Overall survival (OS)8 
  % survival probability at 12 months 
% survival probability at 24 months 
  Median (months) (95% CI) 
Enrolled patients 
N=97 
65 (67.0) 
(56.7, 76.2) 
p<0.0001 
49 (50.5) 
16 (16.5) 
N=97 
64 (66.0) 
(55.7, 75.3) 
p<0.0001 
N=65 
66.3 
66.3 
Not reached (20.0, 
NE9) 
N=97 
69.8 
56.9 
Not reached (19.4, 
NE) 
Infused patients 
N=79 
65 (82.3) 
(72.1, 90.0) 
p<0.0001 
49 (62.0) 
16 (20.3) 
N=79 
64 (81.0) 
(70.6, 89.0) 
p<0.0001 
N=65 
66.3 
66.3 
Not reached (20.0, 
NE) 
N=79 
76.4 
66.3 
Not reached (28.2, 
NE) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
Requires remission status to be maintained for at least 28 days without clinical evidence of 
relapse. 
Nominal one-sided exact p-value based on H0: ORR ≤20% vs. Ha: ORR >20% 
CR (complete remission) was defined as <5% of blasts in the bone marrow, circulating blasts 
in blood should be <1%, no evidence of extramedullary disease, and full recovery of 
peripheral blood counts (platelets >100 000/μL and absolute neutrophil counts [ANC] 
>1 000/μL) without blood transfusion. 
CRi (complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery) was defined as <5% of 
blasts in the bone marrow, circulating blasts in blood should be <1%, no evidence of 
extramedullary disease, and without full recovery of peripheral blood counts with or without 
blood transfusion. 
MRD (minimal residual disease) negative was defined as MRD by flow cytometry <0.01%. 
Nominal one-sided exact p-value based on H0: Rate of MRD negative remission ≤15% vs. 
Ha: >15%. 
DOR was defined as time since onset of CR or CRi to relapse or death due to underlying 
indication, whichever is earlier (N=65). 
OS was defined as time from date of Kymriah infusion to the date of death due to any cause 
for infused patients and from time of date of enrolment to the date of death due to any cause 
for enrolled patients. 
Not estimable 
Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was evaluated by PedsQL and EQ-5D questionnaires 
completed by patients aged 8 years and above (n=61). Among patients responding (n=51), the mean 
(SD) change from baseline in the PedsQL total score was 13.1 (13.45) at month 3, 15.4 (16.81) at 
month 6 and 25.0 (19.09) at month 12, and the mean (SD) change from baseline in the EQ-5D VAS 
score was 16.0 (16.45) at month 3, 15.3 (18.33) at month 6 and 21.7 (17.14) at month 12, indicating 
overall clinically meaningful improvement in HRQoL following Kymriah infusion. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
The supportive study B2205J (ENSIGN) was a multicentre single-arm phase II study in paediatric and 
young adult patients with r/r B‑cell ALL. The study had similar study design and enrolled comparable 
patient populations as the pivotal study B2202. The main difference between the two studies was the 
definition of the primary efficacy endpoint ORR, which was measured within 6 months after Kymriah 
infusion in study B2205J compared to 3 months in the pivotal study. Of 75 patients enrolled, 64 
received infusion of Kymriah; for 5 patients (6.7%), Kymriah could not be manufactured and 
6 patients (8.0%) died while awaiting Kymriah manufacturing in the clinical study. The median 
duration of study follow-up defined as the time from Kymriah infusion to the date of completion or 
discontinuation from follow-up prior to the data cut-off date in the final analyses was 12.2 months 
(range: 0.4-49.3). The median time from Kymriah infusion to the data cut-off date was 31.7 months 
(range: 17.6-56.0). 
Among the patients infused, the median age was 12.5 years (range: 3 to 25), 34 (53.1%) were female 
and 30 (46.9%) were male, 10.9% had primary refractory disease, 89.1% had relapsed disease, and 
43.8% of patients had at least one prior haematopoietic stem cell transplant. Baseline disease 
characteristics were similar in the enrolled patients with regard to age (median age 13.0 years, range: 3 
to 25), gender (46.7% female and 53.3% male), primary refractoriness (10.7%), and prior transplant 
history (42.7%). The majority of infused patients (57/64, 89.1%) received bridging chemotherapy 
while waiting for Kymriah. A total of 60 out of 64 patients (93.8%) who received Kymriah infusion 
also received lymphodepleting chemotherapy after enrolment and prior to infusion of a single dose of 
Kymriah. 
Efficacy was established through the primary endpoint of ORR, which included best overall response 
as CR or CRi that were maintained for at least 28 days within 6 months post-infusion, as determined 
by IRC assessment, as well as secondary endpoints including DOR, proportion of patients who 
achieved CR or CRi with MRD-negative disease status, and OS. Among the patients infused, ORR 
was demonstrated in 45 patients (70.3%; 59.4% CR and 10.9% CRi). CR/CRi with MRD-negative 
bone marrow was reported in 43 patients (67.2%). The median DOR was not reached and the 
event-free probability at 12 months was 70.5%. The survival probability at 24 months was 54.7%, and 
the median OS was estimated as 29.9 months (95% CI: 15.1, 42.4). The OS results were confirmed in 
an updated OS analyses (i.e. median OS 29.9 months [95% CI: 15.2, NE] with 57.6% survival 
probability at 24 months; with a median follow-up for OS of 25.9 months), which included patients 
transitioned to a separate long-term follow-up study. Seven patients (10.9%) who achieved CR/CRi 
after Kymriah infusion proceeded to haematopoietic stem cell transplant while in remission during the 
study, of which 5 of the patients (7.8%) proceeded to transplant within the first 6 months 
post-infusion. Efficacy results reported for the enrolled patients (n=75) demonstrate an ORR of 60.0% 
(50.7% CR and 9.3% CRi; 57.3% with MRD-negative bone marrow). The reported overall survival in 
the enrolled population is in accordance with the infused population. 
Special populations 
No differences in efficacy or safety were observed between different age subgroups. 
Patients with active CNS leukaemia 
Of four patients with active CNS leukaemia (i.e. CNS-3) included in study B2101J, three experienced 
cytokine release syndrome (Grade 2-4) and transient neurological abnormalities (Grade 1-3) that 
resolved within 1-3 months of infusion. One patient died due to disease progression and the remaining 
three patients achieved a CR or CRi and remain alive 1.5-2 years after infusion. 
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah treatment in adult patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) diffuse 
large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who received ≥2 lines of chemotherapy, including rituximab and 
anthracycline, or relapsed following autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), was 
evaluated in an open-label, pivotal, single-arm study. Patients with T-cell rich/histiocyte-rich large 
B-cell lymphoma (THRBCL), primary cutaneous large B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell 
lymphoma (PMBCL), EBV-positive DLBCL of the elderly, Richter’s transformation, and Burkitt 
lymphoma were not enrolled in study C2201. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pivotal study C2201 (JULIET) is a multicentre, single-arm phase II study in adult patients with 
relapsed or refractory DLBCL. Of 167 patients enrolled, 115 patients received infusion with Kymriah. 
Approximately 31% of patients discontinued the study prior to Kymriah infusion. For 13 patients (8%) 
Kymriah could not be manufactured. Other reasons for discontinuation prior to Kymriah infusion 
included death (n=16; 10%), physician decision/primary disease progression (n=16; 10%), patient 
decision (n=2; 1%), protocol deviation (n=1; 1%) or adverse events (n=4; 2%) while awaiting 
Kymriah manufacturing in the clinical study. The median duration of study follow-up defined as the 
time from Kymriah infusion to date of completion or discontinuation from follow-up prior to the data 
cut-off date was 7.7 months (range: 0.4-50.0). The median time from Kymriah infusion to the data cut-
off date was 40.3 months (range: 24.0-52.6). The study is still ongoing. 
Key baseline information for enrolled and infused patients is presented in Table 5. All patients had 
leukapheresis starting material collected and cryopreserved prior to or during study entry. The 
majority of patients (103/115, 90%) received bridging therapy for disease stabilisation. The type and 
duration of bridging therapy was left to the discretion of the physician. 107/115 patients (93%) 
received lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior to Kymriah infusion. Kymriah was given as a 
single-dose (0.6-6.0 × 108 CAR-positive viable T cells) intravenous infusion in a qualified Kymriah 
treatment centre in an inpatient and outpatient setting. 
Table 5 
Study C2201: Baseline information across the enrolled and the infused patient 
populations 
Enrolled 
N=167 
n (%) 
Infused 
N=115 
n (%) 
Age (years) 
Mean (standard deviation) 
Median (minimum – maximum) 
56 (12.9) 
58 (22 - 76) 
54 (13.1) 
56 (22 - 76) 
Age category (years) - n (%) 
<65 years 
≥65 years 
Sex - n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Prior haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
(SCT) - n (%) 
No 
Yes 
Stage III/IV disease at study entry - n (%) 
No 
Yes 
Number of prior lines of antineoplastic 
therapy – n (%) 
1 
2 
3 
≥4 
Disease status - n (%) 
Refractory to last line of therapy 
Relapse to last line of therapy 
120 (71.9) 
47 (28.1) 
105 (62.9) 
62 (37.1) 
93 (55.7) 
74 (44.3) 
36 (21.6) 
131 (78.4) 
6 (3.6) 
73 (43.7) 
52 (31.1) 
36 (21.6) 
98 (58.7) 
69 (41.3) 
23 
89 (77.4) 
26 (22.6) 
71 (61.7) 
44 (38.3) 
59 (51.3) 
56 (48.7) 
27 (23.5) 
88 (76.5) 
5 (4.3) 
51 (44.3) 
36 (31.3) 
23 (20.0) 
63 (54.8) 
52 (45.2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy of Kymriah was evaluated through the primary endpoint of best overall response rate 
(ORR), which includes complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) as determined by 
Independent Review Committee (IRC) assessment as well as secondary endpoints including duration 
of response (Table 6). 
Table 6 
Study C2201: Efficacy results in adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse 
large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or more lines of systemic therapy 
Primary endpoint1 
Overall response rate (ORR) (CR+PR)2, n (%) 
95% CI 
CR, n (%) 
PR, n (%) 
Response at month 3 
ORR (%) 
CR (%) 
Response at month 6 
ORR (%) 
CR (%) 
Duration of response (DOR)3 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
% relapse free probability at 12 months 
% relapse free probability at 18 months 
% relapse free probability at 24 months 
% relapse free probability at 30 months 
Other secondary endpoints 
Overall survival (OS)4 
% survival probability at 12 months 
% survival probability at 24 months 
% survival probability at 36 months 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
Infused patients 
N=115 
N=99 
54 (54.5) 
(44.2, 64.6) 
41 (41.4) 
13 (13.1) 
N=99 
40 (40.4) 
34 (34.3) 
N=99 
34 (34.3) 
31 (31.3) 
N=54 
Enrolled patients 
N=167 
N=147 
54 (36.7) 
(28.9, 45.1) 
41 (27.9) 
13 (8.8) 
N=147 
40 (27.2) 
34 (23.1) 
N=147 
34 (23.1) 
31 (21.1) 
N=54 
Not reached (10.0, NE5)  Not reached (10.0, NE5) 
63.4 
63.4 
60.8 
60.8 
N=167 
63.4 
63.4 
60.8 
60.8 
N=115 
41.0 
33.3 
29.0 
8.2 (5.8, 11.7) 
48.2 
40.4 
36.2 
11.1 (6.6, 23.9) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
The primary endpoint was analysed on all patients whose Kymriah was manufactured at the Novartis 
US facility. 
ORR is the proportion of patients with best overall response (BOR) of CR or PR based on the 
Lugano response criteria (Cheson 2014); non-infused patients were assigned BOR=Unknown (i.e. 
non-responders). 
DOR was defined as time from achievement of CR or PR to relapse or death due to DLBCL, 
whichever occurs first. 
OS was defined as time from date of Kymriah infusion to the date of death due to any cause (N=115) 
and time from date of enrolment to the date of death due to any cause for enrolled patients (N=167). 
Not estimable. 
Among 41 patients who achieved CR, 16 patients initially had an overall disease response of PR 
which improved to CR over time; most patients (13/16) achieved PR to CR conversion within 
6 months post-tisagenlecleucel infusion. ORR was consistent across subgroups. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) 
The safety and efficacy of Kymriah treatment in adult patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) 
follicular lymphoma (FL) were evaluated in an open label, multicentre, single-arm, phase II study 
(E2202, N=97). 
The pivotal study E2202 (ELARA) included patients who were refractory to or relapsed within 
6 months after completion of a second or later line of systemic therapy (including an anti-CD20 
antibody and an alkylating agent), relapsed during or within 6 months after completion of anti-CD20 
antibody maintenance therapy following at least two lines of therapy, or relapsed after autologous 
haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). The study excluded patients with active or serious 
infections, transformed lymphoma or other aggressive lymphomas, including patients with FL 
Grade 3b, those who had received prior allogeneic HSCT, or who had disease with active CNS 
involvement. 
Of 98 patients who were enrolled and underwent leukapheresis, 97 patients received infusion with 
Kymriah. One patient achieved a complete response prior to infusion which was attributed to their 
prior last line of therapy and was subsequently discontinued from the study due to physician decision 
prior to infusion. All patients had leukapheresis products collected and cryopreserved prior to or 
during study entry. Kymriah was delivered for all enrolled patients. The median duration of study 
follow-up defined as the time from Kymriah infusion to date of completion or discontinuation from 
follow-up prior to the data cut-off date was 18.6 months (range: 1.8-29.9). The median time from 
Kymriah infusion to the data cut-off date was 20.8 months (range: 14.4-29.9). The study is still 
ongoing. 
Of the 97 patients infused with Kymriah, 94 patients had measurable disease at baseline per 
Independent Review Committee (IRC) and are included in the efficacy analysis set (EAS). 
Key baseline information for the enrolled set and EAS is presented in Table 7. Approximately half of 
the patients (44/94; 47%) received bridging therapy for disease stabilisation between leukapheresis 
and administration of Kymriah and all patients received lymphodepleting chemotherapy. For all 
infused patients, Kymriah was administered as a single dose intravenous infusion in a qualified 
treatment centre in an inpatient or outpatient (18%) setting. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Study E2202: Baseline information across the enrolled and the EAS patient 
populations 
Enrolled 
N=98 
n (%) 
EAS* 
N=94 
n (%) 
Age (years) 
Mean (standard deviation) 
Median (minimum – maximum) 
56.5 (10.34) 
57.5 (29-73) 
56.4 (10.54) 
57.0 (29-73) 
Age category (years) – n (%) 
<65 years 
≥65 years 
Sex – n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Stage III/IV disease at study entry – n (%) 
High FLIPI score1 – n (%) 
Bulky disease at baseline2 – n (%) 
Number of prior lines of antineoplastic 
therapy – n (%) 
2 
3 
4 
≥5 
Median (minimum – maximum) 
Disease status – n (%) 
Refractory to last line of therapy 
Relapse to last line of therapy 
Double refractory3 – n (%) 
Progression of disease within 24 months 
(POD24)4 – n (%) 
Prior haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
(HSCT) – n (%)  
Prior PI3K inhibitor – n (%) 
* 
74 (75.5) 
24 (24.5) 
65 (66.3) 
33 (33.7) 
84 (85.7) 
59 (60.2) 
62 (63.3) 
70 (74.5) 
24 (25.5) 
64 (68.1) 
30 (31.9) 
81 (86.2) 
57 (60.6) 
61 (64.9) 
24 (24.5) 
21 (21.4) 
25 (25.5) 
28 (28.6) 
4.0 (2.0 -13.0) 
24 (25.5) 
19 (20.2) 
24 (25.5) 
27 (28.7) 
4.0 (2.0 - 13.0) 
76 (77.6) 
17 (17.3) 
67 (68.4) 
61 (62.2) 
36 (36.7) 
21 (21.4) 
74 (78.7) 
17 (18.1) 
65 (69.1) 
61 (64.9) 
35 (37.2) 
19 (20.2) 
Infused patients who had measurable disease at baseline per Independent Review Committee 
(IRC) and are included in the efficacy analysis set. 
FLIPI includes 5 labelled prognostic factors; FLIPI = sum (where prognostic factor = ‘Yes’); 
Low: 0-1 criteria met; intermediate: 2 criteria met; high: 3 or more met. 
Bulky disease defined per IRC as imaging showing any nodal or extra nodal tumour mass that 
is >7 cm in diameter or involvement of at least 3 nodal sites, each with a diameter >3 cm. 
Double refractory is defined as patients who failed to respond or relapsed within 6 months 
following therapy with anti-CD20 and alkylating agents, any regimen 
POD24: subjects with primary refractory or experiencing progression of disease within 
24 months from initiation of a first-line anti-CD20 mAb containing treatment. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Efficacy was evaluated through the primary endpoint of complete response rate (CRR), recorded from 
infusion until progressive disease or start of new therapy. CRR was determined by IRC based on 
Lugano classification criteria (Cheson 2014). Secondary endpoints included overall response rate 
(ORR), duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS). Median 
time from enrolment to infusion was 46 days (range: 23 to 127). The first disease assessment was 
scheduled to be performed at month 3 post-infusion. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Study E2202: Efficacy results in adult patients with relapsed or refractory follicular 
lymphoma (FL) after two or more lines of therapy 
Enrolled patients 
N=98 
EAS patients* 
N=94 
Complete response rate (CRR)1, per IRC 
n (%) 
95% CI 
Overall response rate (ORR)2, per IRC 
n (%) 
Duration of response (DOR)3, per IRC 
Median (months) (95% CI) 
% event-free probability at 9 months (95% CI) 
67 (68.4) 
(58.2, 77.4) 
65 (69.1) 
(58.8, 78.3) 
84 (85.7) 
N=84 
NE (20.9, NE) 
75.9 (64.8, 83.9) 
81 (86.2) 
N=81 
NE (15.6, NE) 
76.2 (64.9, 84.3) 
CI=Confidence interval, NE=Not estimable 
* 
Infused patients who had measurable disease at baseline per Independent Review Committee (IRC) 
and are included in the efficacy analysis set. 
The primary endpoint was CRR per IRC based on Lugano response criteria (Cheson 2014) and 
defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR). 
The non-infused patient was treated as a non-responder. 
ORR was defined as the proportion of patients with a BOR of CR or partial response (PR). The non-
infused patient was treated as a non-responder. 
DOR was defined as time from achievement of CR or PR to relapse or death due to FL, whichever 
occurs first. 
1 
2 
3 
All responders achieved their first response (CR or PR) at the first disease assessment performed post-
infusion, at 3 months. Of the 65 patients who eventually achieved a CR, 15 patients (16%) initially had 
a PR. The majority of patients converted from PR to CR within 6 months post-infusion. No patient 
who received Kymriah infusion went to transplant while in response (CR or PR). 
The probability for a patient to remain in response (DOR) ≥9 months was 76% (95% CI: 64.9, 84.3), 
while the probability for a patient who achieved a CR to remain in response ≥9 months was 87% (95% 
CI: 75.6, 93.3). 
Subgroup analyses demonstrated a generally consistent CRR across all subgroups, including the 
following high-risk prognostic subgroups: high FLIPI score (CRR of 63%), prior HSCT (CRR of 
66%), POD24 (CRR of 59%), and double refractoriness (CRR of 66%). 
Special populations 
There are not enough data to determine whether there are any differences in efficacy or safety between 
different age subgroups, although the clinical benefit and safety experience in elderly patients with 
DLBCL and FL above the age of 65 years (23% and 24.7% of the study population for DLBCL and 
FL, respectively) were comparable to the overall population. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Study B2401 
An observational study (B2401) was conducted to collect long-term safety and efficacy data in 
patients infused with tisagenlecleucel from the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant 
Research (CIBMTR) and European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) registries. 
The study included 617 (CIBMTR: 570; EBMT: 47) paediatric and young adult patients with r/r B-cell 
ALL at time of the data cut-off. Kymriah manufacture for patients below 3 years of age and with low 
weight was feasible; 43 patients (CIBMTR: 40, EBMT: 3) were below 3 years of age at time of 
infusion. The median time from Kymriah infusion to the data cut-off date of the paediatric and young 
adult patients with r/r B-cell ALL was 11.8 months for CIBMTR and 9.0 months for EBMT. 
Among the patients below 3 years of age included in the efficacy set (n=33), CR (including CRi) as 
BOR was reported for 26 patients (78.8%) (95% CI: 61.1, 91.0) and all 15 patients in CR (including 
CRi) and with reported MRD data were MRD-negative during follow-up. The estimated DOR rate at 
month 12 was 62.7% (95% CI: 35.0, 81.3). 
The overall safety experience in patients below 3 years of age with r/r B-cell ALL was generally 
consistent with the known safety profile of tisagenlecleucel. 
Study C2202 
A phase II study of tisagenlecleucel (C2202, BIANCA) was conducted in 33 infused patients with 
relapsed or refractory mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in children and young adults. Of 
the 33 patients infused with tisagenlecleucel, 28 patients (24 patients, aged 3-17 years old and 
4 patients, aged 20-22 years old) had measurable disease prior to infusion and are included in the 
efficacy analysis set (EAS). 
The EAS included patients with Burkitt lymphoma (n=15), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n=8), 
primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (n=3), grey zone lymphoma (n=1) and high-grade lymphoma 
with MYC and BCL2 rearrangements (n=1). Among these patients, the median age was 14.0 years 
(range: 3 to 22), 9 (32.1%) were female and 19 (67.9%) were male. The median number of prior lines 
of therapy was 1 (range:1-3), 17.9% of patients had one prior haematopoietic stem cell transplant. All 
patients except one (96.4%) received bridging chemotherapy while waiting for tisagenlecleucel. 
Patients received the approved tisagenlecleucel dose for the paediatric ALL indication. 
Results in the EAS showed an ORR of 32.1% (95% CI: 15.9, 52.4), with a CR of 7.1%. Subgroup 
analysis indicated a lower ORR in patients with Burkitt lymphoma (20%, 95% CI 4.3, 48.1) compared 
to patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (37.5%, 95% CI: 8.5, 75.5) or other diagnoses included 
in the study (60.0%, 95% CI: 14.7, 94.7). 
The overall safety experience in paediatric and young adult patients with CD19+ r/r mature B-cell 
NHL infused with tisagenlecleucel in Study C2202 was consistent with the known safety profile of 
tisagenlecleucel. No new safety signals were observed. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Kymriah in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of B-cell lymphoblastic 
lymphoma (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following infusion of Kymriah into paediatric and young adult r/r B-cell ALL, r/r DLBCL and r/r FL 
patients, tisagenlecleucel typically exhibited an initial rapid expansion followed by a slower 
bi-exponential decline. High inter-subject variability was associated with the in vivo exposure metrics 
(AUC0-28d and Cmax) across all indications. 
Cellular kinetics in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients 
A summary of cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL 
patients is provided in Table 9 below. The maximal expansion (Cmax) was approximately 1.6-fold 
higher in CR/CRi patients (n=103) compared with non-responding (NR) patients (n=10) as measured 
by qPCR. Delayed and lower expansion was observed in NR patients compared to CR/CRi patients. 
Table 9 
Cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in paediatric and young adult r/r 
B-cell ALL (Studies B2202 and B2205J) 
Parameter 
Summary statistics 
Cmax (copies/μg) 
‡ (day) 
Tmax
AUC0-28d 
(copies/μg*day) 
T½ (day) 
Tlast 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Median [min;max], n 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Median [min;max], n 
Cellular kinetics in adult DLBCL patients 
Responding patients 
(CR/CRi) 
N=105 
35 300 (154.0), 103 
Non-responding 
patients (NR) 
N=12 
21 900 (80.7), 10 
9.83 [5.70; 27.8], 103 
309 000 (178.1), 103 
20.1 [12.6; 62.7], 10 
232 000 (104.5), 8 
25.2 (307.8), 71 
3.80 (182.4), 4 
166 [20.9; 916], 103 
28.8 [26.7; 742], 9 
A summary of cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in DLBCL patients is provided in 
Table 10 below. 
Table 10  Cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in r/r DLBCL patients 
Parameter 
Summary statistics 
Responding patients 
(CR and PR) 
N=43 
5 840 (254.3), 43 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Median [min;max], n  9.00 [5.78; 19.8], 35 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Geometric mean 
(CV%), n 
Median [min;max], n  551 [17.1; 1 030], 43 
61 200 (177.7), 40 
129 (199.2), 33 
Non-responding patients 
(SD/PD/Unknown) 
N=72 
5 460 (326.89), 65 
8.84 [3.04; 27.7], 65 
67 000 (275.2), 56 
14.7 (147.1), 44 
61.4 [19.8; 685], 56 
Cmax (copies/μg) 
Tmax (day) 
AUC0-28d 
(copies/μg*day) 
T½ (day) 
Tlast 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cellular kinetics in FL patients 
A summary of cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in FL patients by BOR is provided in 
Table 11 below. 
The geometric mean AUC0-28d value of responders was 2.9 fold higher compared to non-responders, 
while the geometric mean Cmax value was 2.1 fold higher in responders compared to non-responders. 
Table 11  Cellular kinetic parameters of tisagenlecleucel in r/r FL patients 
Parameter 
Summary statistics 
Responding patients 
(CR and PR) 
N=81 
Non-responding 
patients 
(SD/PD) 
N=12 
Cmax 
(copies/micrograms) 
Tmax (day) 
AUC0-28d 
(copies/micrograms*day) 
T½ (day) 
Tlast (day) 
Biodistribution 
Geometric mean (CV%), n 
6 280 (331), 67 
3 000 (1 190), 8 
Median [min;max], n 
9.92 [2.62; 28.0], 67 
13.0 [7.73; 16.0], 8 
Geometric mean (CV%), n 
57 500 (261), 66 
20 100 (18 100), 7 
Geometric mean (CV%), n 
Median [min;max], n 
43.8 (287), 43 
191 [19.9; 558], 73 
24.4 (180), 6 
107 [18.7; 366], 10 
In paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients, tisagenlecleucel has been shown to be present in 
the blood and bone marrow beyond 2 years. The blood to bone marrow partitioning of tisagenlecleucel 
in bone marrow was 47.2% of that present in blood at day 28 while at months 3 and 6 it distributes at 
68.3% and 69%, respectively (Studies B2202 and B2205J). Tisagenlecleucel also traffics and persists 
in cerebrospinal fluid in paediatric and young adult B-cell ALL patients (Study B2101J) for up to 
1 year. 
In adult DLBCL patients (Study C2201), tisagenlecleucel has been detected for up to 3 years in 
peripheral blood and up to month 9 in bone marrow for complete responder patients. The blood to 
bone marrow partitioning in bone marrow was nearly 70% of that present in blood at day 28 and 50% 
at month 3 in both responder and non-responder patients. 
In adult FL patients (Study E2202), tisagenlecleucel has been detected for up to 18 months in 
peripheral blood and up to month 3 in bone marrow for complete responder patients. The blood to 
bone marrow partitioning in bone marrow was nearly 54% of that present in blood at month 3 in both 
responder and non-responder patients. 
Elimination 
The elimination profile of Kymriah includes a bi-exponential decline in peripheral blood and bone 
marrow. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
There is no apparent relationship between dose and AUC0-28d or Cmax. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The scatter plots of cellular kinetic parameters versus age (22 to 76 years in DLBCL patients and 29 to 
73 years in FL patients) revealed no relevant relationship between cellular kinetic parameters 
(AUC0-28d and Cmax) with age. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender 
Gender has not been identified as a significant characteristic influencing tisagenlecleucel expansion in 
B-cell ALL, DLBCL and FL patients. In Study B2202, there were 43% female and 57% male patients, 
in Study C2201 38% female and 62% male patients and in Study E2202 34% female and 66% male 
patients who received Kymriah. Further, in Study E2202, the geometric means of the exposure 
parameters (Cmax and AUC0-28d) were shown to be 111% and 106% higher, respectively, in female 
patients compared to male patients. Although the interpretation of expansion in relation to gender is 
difficult due to overlapping ranges and high inter-subject variability. 
Race/ethnicity 
There is limited evidence that race/ethnicity impact the expansion of Kymriah in paediatric and young 
adult ALL, DLBCL and FL patients. In Study B2202 there were 73.4% Caucasian, 12.7% Asian and 
13.9% other ethnic patients. In Study C2201 there were 85% Caucasian, 9% Asian, 4% Black or 
African American patients, and 3 patients (3%) of unknown race. In Study E2202, there were 75% 
Caucasian, 13% Asian, 1% Black or African American patients, and 10% of unknown race. 
Body weight 
In ALL, DLBCL and FL patients, across the weight ranges (ALL; 14.4 to 137 kg; DLBCL: 38.4 to 
186.7 kg; FL: 44.3 to 127.7 kg), the scatter plots of qPCR cellular kinetic parameters versus weight 
revealed no apparent relationship between cellular kinetic parameters with weight. 
Prior transplantation 
Prior transplantation did not impact the expansion/persistence of Kymriah in paediatric and young 
adult B-cell ALL patients, adult DLBCL or adult FL patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical safety assessment of Kymriah addressed the safety concerns of potential uncontrolled cell 
growth of transduced T cells in vitro and in vivo as well as dose-related toxicity, biodistribution and 
persistence. No such risks were identified based on these studies. 
Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity 
Genotoxicity assays and carcinogenicity studies in rodents are not appropriate to assess the risk of 
insertional mutagenesis for genetically-modified cell therapy products. No alternative adequate animal 
models are available. 
In vitro expansion studies with CAR-positive T cells (Kymriah) from healthy donors and patients 
showed no evidence for transformation and/or immortalisation of T cells. In vivo studies in 
immunocompromised mice did not show signs of abnormal cell growth or signs of clonal cell 
expansion for up to 7 months, which represents the longest meaningful observation period for 
immunocompromised mouse models. A genomic insertion site analysis of the lentiviral vector was 
performed on Kymriah products from 14 individual donors (12 patients and 2 healthy volunteers). 
There was no evidence for preferential integration near genes of concern or preferential outgrowth of 
cells harbouring integration sites of concern. 
Reproductive toxicity 
No non-clinical reproductive safety studies were conducted as no adequate animal model is available. 
Juvenile animal studies 
Juvenile toxicity studies were not conducted. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glucose 
Sodium chloride 
Human albumin solution 
Dextran 40 for injection 
Dimethyl sulfoxide 
Sodium gluconate 
Sodium acetate 
Potassium chloride 
Magnesium chloride 
Sodium-N-acetyltryptophanate 
Sodium caprylate 
Aluminium 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
9 months. 
The medicinal product should be administered immediately after thawing. After thawing, the product 
should be kept at room temperature (20°C-25°C) and infused within 30 minutes to maintain maximum 
product viability, including any interruption during the infusion. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Kymriah must be stored and transported ≤ -120°C, e.g. in a container for cryogenic storage in the 
vapour phase of liquid nitrogen, and must remain frozen until the patient is ready for treatment to 
ensure viable cells are available for patient administration. Do not re-freeze after thawing. 
For storage conditions after thawing of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container and special equipment for use, administration or 
implantation 
Ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) infusion bag with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing and a luer spike 
interconnector closed by a luer-lock cap containing either 10–30 mL (50 mL bags) or 30–50 mL 
(250 mL bags) cell dispersion. 
Each infusion bag is placed into a protective layer. 
One individual treatment dose comprises 1 or more infusion bags. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
Kymriah should be transported within the facility in closed, break-proof, leak-proof containers. 
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Kymriah must 
take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
Before administration, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the unique patient 
information on the Kymriah infusion bags and accompanying documentation. The total number of 
infusion bags to be administered should also be confirmed with the patient specific information on the 
batch specific documentation accompanying the medicinal product. 
The timing of thaw of Kymriah and infusion should be coordinated. The infusion start time should be 
confirmed in advance and adjusted for thaw so that Kymriah is available for infusion when the 
recipient is ready. Once Kymriah has been thawed and is at room temperature (20°C – 25°C), it should 
be infused within 30 minutes to maintain maximum product viability, including any interruption 
during the infusion. 
Inspection and thawing of the infusion bag(s) 
Do not thaw the product until it is ready to be used. 
The infusion bag should be placed inside a second sterile bag during thawing to protect ports from 
contamination and avoid spills in the unlikely event of the bag leaking. Kymriah should be thawed at 
37°C using either a water bath or dry thaw method until there is no visible ice in the infusion bag. The 
bag should be removed immediately from the thawing device and kept at room temperature 
(20°C-25°C) until infusion. If more than one infusion bag has been received for the treatment dose 
(refer to the batch certificate for number of bags constituting one dose), the next bag should only be 
thawed after the contents of the preceding bag have been infused. 
Kymriah should not be manipulated. For example, Kymriah should not be washed (spun down and 
resuspended in new media) prior to infusion. 
The infusion bag(s) should be examined for any breaks or cracks prior to thawing. If the infusion bag 
appears to have been damaged or to be leaking, it should not be infused and should be disposed of 
according to local procedures on handling of biological waste. 
Administration 
Kymriah intravenous infusion should be administered by a healthcare professional experienced with 
immunosuppressed patients and prepared to manage anaphylaxis. In the event of cytokine release 
syndrome (CRS), ensure that at least one dose of tocilizumab per patient and emergency equipment 
are available prior to infusion. Hospitals must have access to additional doses of tocilizumab within 
8 hours. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the 
European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that suitable alternative measures to treat 
cytokine release syndrome are available on site. 
The patient’s identity should be matched with the patient identifiers on the infusion bag. Kymriah is 
intended solely for autologous use and must not, under any circumstances, be administered to other 
patients. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kymriah should be administered as an intravenous infusion through latex-free intravenous tubing 
without a leukocyte depleting filter, at approximately 10 to 20 mL per minute by gravity flow. All 
contents of the infusion bag(s) should be infused. Sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection should be used to prime the tubing prior to infusion and to rinse it after infusion. When the 
full volume of Kymriah has been infused, the infusion bag should be rinsed with 10 to 30 mL sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection by back priming to ensure as many cells as possible 
are infused into the patient. 
If the volume of Kymriah to be administered is ≤20 mL, intravenous push may be used as an 
alternative method of administration. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human-derived material should be 
followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Kymriah must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Kymriah (solid and liquid 
waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1297/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 23 August 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation 
220 East Hanover Avenue 
Morris Plains 
New Jersey 
NJ07950 
United States 
Novartis Pharma Stein AG 
Novartis Technical Operations Schweiz 
Stein Cell and Gene Therapy, 
Schaffhauserstrasse 
4332 Stein 
Switzerland 
CELLFORCURE 
ZA de Courtabœuf 
11 avenue des Tropiques 
91940 Les Ulis 
France 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
CELLFORCURE 
ZA de Courtabœuf 
11 avenue des Tropiques 
91940 Les Ulis 
France 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Key elements 
Availability of tocilizumab and site qualification 
The MAH will ensure that hospitals and their associated centres that dispense KYMRIAH are 
qualified in accordance with the agreed controlled distribution programme by: 
• 
ensuring immediate, on-site access to one dose of tocilizumab per patient prior to KYMRIAH 
infusion. The treatment centre must have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 
8 hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to 
a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, the MAH will 
ensure that suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab are available 
on-site. 
ensuring healthcare professionals (HCP) involved in the treatment of a patient have completed 
the educational programme. 
• 
Educational programme 
Prior to the launch of KYMRIAH in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and 
format of the educational materials with the National Competent Authority. 
HCP educational programme 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where KYMRIAH is marketed, all HCPs who are 
expected to prescribe, dispense annd administer KYMRIAH shall be provided with a guidance 
document to: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
facilitate identification of CRS and serious neurological adverse reactions 
facilitate management of the CRS and serious neurological adverse reactions 
ensure adequate monitoring of CRS and serious neurological adverse reactions 
facilitate provision of all relevant information to patients 
ensure that adverse reactions are adequately and appropriately reported 
ensure that detailed instructions about the thawing procedure are provided 
before treating a patient, ensure that tocilizumab for each patient are available on site; in the 
exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the 
European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that suitable alternative measures to 
treat CRS are available on site 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient educational programme 
To inform and explain to patients: 
- 
- 
- 
the risks of CRS and serious neurological adverse reactions associated with KYMRIAH 
the need to report the symptoms to their treating doctor immediately 
the need to remain in the proximity of the location where KYMRIAH was received for at least 
4 weeks following KYMRIAH infusion 
the need to carry the patient alert card at all times 
- 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order 
to further characterise the safety – including long-term safety – of 
Kymriah, the applicant should conduct and submit a study based on 
data from a disease registry in ALL and DLBCL patients. 
Due date 
Update reports: 
Annual safety reports and 
5-yearly interim reports 
Post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further 
characterise the long-term efficacy and safety of Kymriah in 
relapsed/refractory DLBCL, the applicant should submit the final 
CSR including 5 years of follow-up from study C2201. 
Post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further 
characterise the long-term efficacy and safety of Kymriah in 
relapsed/refractory DLBCL, the applicant should submit the final 
overall survival results of study CCTL019H2301 – open-label, 
Phase III study of Kymriah versus standard of care in adult patients 
with relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma. 
Final report of study results: 
December 2038 
Final CSR: August 2023 
March 2027 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
INFUSION BAG LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kymriah 1.2 × 106 – 6 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
tisagenlecleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells genetically modified ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding an 
anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). 
Contains 1.2 × 106 to 6 × 108 CAR+ viable T cells. 
Contains cells of human origin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: glucose, sodium chloride, human albumin solution, dextran 40 for injection, dimethyl 
sulfoxide, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate, potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, 
sodium-N-acetyltryptophanate, sodium caprylate, aluminium, water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
10 mL - 50 mL per bag. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use 
Do not use leukocyte depleting filter. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport ≤ -120°C; do not thaw the product until use. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1297/001 
10 – 50 ml 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Name: 
Date of birth: 
Aph ID/DIN: 
Batch: 
Bag x 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
43 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient or carer 
Kymriah 1.2 × 106 – 6 × 108 cells dispersion for infusion 
tisagenlecleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you (or your child) are given this medicine because it 
contains important information. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
Your doctor will give you a Patient Alert Card. Read it carefully and follow the instructions on 
it. 
Always show the Patient Alert Card to the doctor or nurse when you see them or if you go to 
hospital. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
The information in this leaflet is for you or your child – but in the leaflet it will just say “you”. 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Kymriah is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Kymriah 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Kymriah is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Kymriah 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Kymriah is and what it is used for 
What Kymriah is 
Kymriah, also known as tisagenlecleucel, is made from some of your own white blood cells called T 
cells. T cells are important for your immune system (the body’s defences) to work properly. 
How does Kymriah work? 
The T cells are taken from your blood and a new gene is put into the T cells so that they can target the 
cancer cells in your body. When Kymriah is infused into your blood, the modified T cells will find and 
kill the cancer cells. 
What Kymriah is used for 
Kymriah is used to treat: 
• 
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-cell ALL) - a form of cancer that affects some other 
types of white blood cells. The medicine can be used in children and young adults up to and 
including 25 years of age with this cancer when it did not respond to previous treatment, has 
come back two or more times, or has come back after a transplant of stem cells. 
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) - a form of cancer that affects some types of white 
blood cells, mostly in the lymph nodes. The medicine can be used in adults (18 years of age or 
older) with this cancer when it has come back or did not respond after two or more previous 
treatments. 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) - a form of cancer that affects some types of white blood cells, 
called lymphocytes, mostly in the lymph nodes. The medicine can be used in adults (18 years of 
age or older) with this cancer when it has come back or did not respond after two or more 
previous treatments. 
• 
• 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about how Kymriah works or why this medicine has been prescribed for 
you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Kymriah 
You should not be given Kymriah: 
• 
if you are allergic to any of the ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think 
you may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
If you cannot receive treatment, called lymphodepleting chemotherapy, which reduces the 
number of white blood cells in your blood. 
Warnings and precautions 
Kymriah is made from your own white blood cells and should only be given to you. 
You will be asked to enrol in a registry for at least 15 years in order to better understand the long-term 
effects of Kymriah. 
Before you are given Kymriah you should tell your doctor if: 
• 
You have had a stem cell transplant in the last 4 months. Your doctor will check if you have 
signs or symptoms of graft-versus-host disease. This happens when transplanted cells attack 
your body, causing symptoms such as rash, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and bloody stools. 
You have any lung, heart or blood pressure (low or raised) problems. 
You notice the symptoms of your cancer are getting worse. If you have leukaemia this might 
include fever, feeling weak, bleeding gums, bruising. If you have lymphoma, this might include 
unexplained fever, feeling weak, night sweats, sudden weight loss. 
You have an infection. The infection will be treated before the Kymriah infusion. 
You have had hepatitis B, hepatitis C or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. 
You are pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or plan to become pregnant (see sections 
“Pregnancy and breast-feeding” and “Contraception for women and men” below). 
You had a vaccination in the previous 6 weeks or are planning to have one in the next few 
months. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor before being given Kymriah. 
Test and checks 
Before you are given Kymriah your doctor will: 
• 
Check your lungs, heart and blood pressure. 
• 
Look for signs of infection; any infection will be treated before you are given Kymriah. 
• 
Check if your lymphoma or leukaemia is getting worse. 
• 
Look for signs of graft-versus-host disease that can happen after a transplant. 
• 
Check your blood for uric acid and for how many cancer cells there are in your blood. This will 
show if you are likely to develop a condition called tumour lysis syndrome. You may be given 
medicines to help prevent the condition. 
Check for hepatitis B, hepatitis C or HIV infection. 
• 
After you have been given Kymriah 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately if you have any of the following: 
• 
Fever, which may be a symptom of an infection. Your doctor will regularly check your blood 
counts as the number of blood cells and other blood components may decrease. 
Take your temperature twice a day for 3-4 weeks after treatment with Kymriah. If your 
temperature is high, see your doctor immediately. 
Extreme tiredness, weakness and shortness of breath, which may be symptoms of a lack of red 
blood cells. 
Bleeding or bruising more easily, which may be symptoms of low levels of cells in the blood 
known as platelets. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There may be an effect on the results of some types of HIV test – ask your doctor about this. 
Your doctor will regularly monitor your blood counts after you receive Kymriah as you may 
experience a reduction in the number of blood cells and other blood components. 
Do not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells. 
Children and adolescents 
• 
• 
There is limited experience with Kymriah in paediatric patients below the age of 3 years. 
Kymriah is not recommended to be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age to 
treat DLBCL. This is because there is limited experience in the treatment of non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma in this age group. 
Kymriah should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age to treat FL. This 
is because Kymriah has not been studied in this age group. 
• 
Other medicines and Kymriah 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines, including 
medicines obtained without a prescription. This is because other medicines can affect the way 
Kymriah works. 
In particular, you must not be given certain vaccines called live vaccines: 
• 
in the 6 weeks before you are given the short course of chemotherapy (called lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy) to prepare your body for the Kymriah cells. 
during Kymriah treatment. 
after treatment while the immune system is recovering. 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you need to have any vaccinations. 
Before you are given Kymriah tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking any medicines that weaken 
your immune system such as corticosteroids, since these medicines may interfere with the effect of 
Kymriah. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine. This is because the effects of Kymriah in 
pregnant or breast-feeding women are not known, and it may harm your unborn baby or your 
newborn/infant. 
• 
If you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant after treatment with Kymriah, talk your 
doctor immediately. 
You will be given a pregnancy test before treatment starts. Kymriah should only be given if the 
result shows you are not pregnant. 
• 
Contraception for women and men 
Discuss pregnancy with your doctor if you have received Kymriah. 
Driving and using machines 
Some people may feel confused, have problems such as altered or decreased consciousness, confusion 
and seizures (fits) after being given Kymriah. Therefore, do not drive, use machines, or take part in 
activities that need you to be alert for in the 8 weeks following infusion. 
Kymriah contains sodium, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), dextran 40 and potassium 
This medicine contains 24.3 to 121.5 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose. 
This is equivalent to 1 to 6% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an 
adult. 
This medicine contains dextran 40 and DMSO (substances used to preserve frozen cells), both of 
which can sometimes cause allergic reactions. You should be observed closely during the infusion 
period. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine contains potassium, less than 1 mmol (39 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially 
“potassium-free”. 
3. 
How Kymriah is given 
Kymriah will always be given to you by a doctor in a qualified treatment centre. 
Giving blood to make Kymriah 
Kymriah is made from your own white blood cells. 
• 
Your doctor will take some of your blood using a catheter placed in your vein (a procedure 
called leukapheresis). Some of your white blood cells are separated from your blood and the rest 
of your blood is returned to your vein. This can take 3 to 6 hours and may need to be repeated. 
Your white blood cells are frozen and sent away to make Kymriah. It usually takes about 3 to 
4 weeks to make Kymriah but the time may vary. 
Kymriah is a treatment that is manufactured specifically for you. 
Before you are given Kymriah, your doctor may give you a type of treatment called 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy for a few days to prepare your body. 
• 
• 
• 
Cancer treatment while Kymriah is being made 
During the period while Kymriah is being made, your lymphoma or leukaemia may get worse and 
your doctor may decide to use an additional treatment (known as “bridging therapy”) to stabilise your 
cancer by stopping new cancer cells from developing. This treatment may lead to side effects and 
these may be severe or life-threatening. Your doctor will inform you of the potential side effects of 
this treatment. 
Other medicines given immediately before Kymriah treatment 
During the 30 to 60 minutes before you are given Kymriah you may be given other medicines. This is 
to help prevent infusion reactions and fever. These other medicines may include: 
• 
• 
Paracetamol 
An antihistamine such as diphenhydramine. 
How Kymriah is given 
• 
Your doctor will check that the individual patient identifiers on the Kymriah infusion bag match 
up to you. 
Your doctor will give you Kymriah by infusion, which means it will be given as a drip through 
a tube in your vein. This usually takes less than 1 hour. During the infusion your doctor will 
check if you have difficulty breathing or dizziness (possible symptoms of an allergic reaction). 
Kymriah is a one-time treatment. 
• 
• 
After Kymriah is given 
• 
Plan to stay within 2 hours’ travel from the hospital where you were treated for at least 4 weeks 
after you have been given Kymriah. Your doctor will recommend that you return to the hospital 
daily for at least 10 days and will consider whether you need to stay at the hospital as an 
in-patient for the first 10 days after infusion. This is so your doctor can check if your treatment 
is working and help you if you have any side effects. 
If you miss an appointment 
If you miss an appointment, call your doctor or the hospital as soon as possible to reschedule. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the following side effects after the Kymriah infusion. 
They usually happen in the first 8 weeks after the infusion, but can also develop later: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
high fever and chills. These may be symptoms of a serious condition called cytokine release 
syndrome which may be life-threatening or fatal. Other symptoms of cytokine release syndrome 
are difficulty breathing, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, fatigue, muscle pain, joint 
pain, swelling, low blood pressure, fast heartbeat, headache, heart, lung and kidney failure and 
liver injury. These symptoms almost always occur within the first 14 days after infusion. 
problems such as altered thinking or decreased consciousness, loss of contact with reality, 
confusion, agitation, seizures, difficulty speaking and understanding speech, difficulty walking. 
These may be symptoms of a condition called immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity 
syndrome (ICANS). 
feeling warm, fever, chills or shivering, sore throat or mouth ulcers may be signs of an 
infection. Some infections may be life-threatening or fatal. 
• 
• 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
Rapid breakdown of tumour cells causing release of their contents into the bloodstream. This 
can interfere with the workings of various body organs, especially the kidneys, heart and 
nervous system (tumour lysis syndrome). 
Other possible side effects 
Other side effects are listed below. If these side effects become severe or serious, tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weakness, abnormal heart rhythms, due to abnormally low level of blood salts including 
Pale skin, weakness, breathlessness due to low number of red blood cells or low haemoglobin 
Excessive or prolonged bleeding or bruising due to low number of platelets 
Fever with dangerously low white blood cell count 
Increased risk of infection due to abnormally low number of white blood cells 
Frequent and  persistent infections due to decreased antibodies in your blood 
phosphorus, potassium 
High levels of liver enzymes or creatinine in the blood that show that your liver or kidneys are 
not working normally 
Raised blood pressure 
Shortness of breath, laboured breathing, rapid breathing 
Cough 
Abdominal pain, constipation 
Bone and back pain 
Skin rash 
Swollen ankles, limbs and face 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Fever, malaise, enlarged liver, yellow colour of your skin and eyes, low blood cell counts due to 
severe immune activation 
Dizziness or fainting, flushing, rash, itching, fever, shortness of breath or vomiting, abdominal 
pain, diarrhoea due to infusion related reaction 
Rash, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea including bloody stools (possible symptoms of graft-versus-
host disease which is when transplanted cells attack your cells) 
Pain in the joints due to high level of uric acid 
Abnormal blood test results (high level of: phosphorus, potassium, calcium and sodium, fibrin 
d-dimer, serum ferritin; low level of: blood protein called albumin, sodium, magnesium) 
Convulsion, fits (seizures) 
Muscle spasms/cramping due to abnormally low level of blood salts including calcium 
Involuntary or uncontrollable movements 
Involuntary shaking of the body, difficulty writing, difficulty expressing thoughts verbally, 
impaired attention, sleepiness 
Tingling or numbness, difficulty moving because of nerve damage 
Decreased vision 
Thirst, low urine output, dark urine, dry flushed skin, irritability (possible symptoms of high 
level of sugar in blood) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weight loss 
• 
Nerve pain 
• 
Anxiety, irritability 
• 
Severe state of confusion 
• 
Difficulty sleeping 
• 
Breathlessness, difficulty breathing when lying down, swelling of the feet or legs (possible 
symptoms of heart failure), fast or irregular heart beat, stopped heart beat 
Swelling and pain due to blood clots 
Swelling due to fluids leaking from blood vessels into the surrounding tissue 
Bloating and discomfort (abdominal distension), due to an accumulation of fluid in the abdomen 
Dry mouth, sore mouth, bleeding in the mouth 
Yellow skin and eyes due to abnormally high levels of bilirubin in the blood 
Itching 
Excessive sweating, night sweats 
Flu-like illness 
Failure of multiple organs 
Fluid in the lungs 
Stuffy nose 
Defect in blood clotting (coagulopathy, increased international normalised ratio, prolonged 
prothrombin time, decreased blood fibrinogen, prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
•  Weakness or paralysis of limbs or face, difficulty speaking (possible symptoms of stroke as a 
Abnormal blood test results (high level of magnesium) 
result of reduced blood supply) 
•  Warm or rapidly reddening skin 
• 
Cough that produces phlegm or sometimes blood, fever, shortness of breath or difficulty 
breathing 
Difficulty in controlling movement 
• 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
•  Weakness or numbness in the arms or legs, worsening of or loss of vision, having fixed and 
Difficulty breathing or dizziness (possible symptoms of an allergic reaction) 
irrational thoughts that are not shared by others, headache, impaired memory or thinking, 
unusual behaviour 
50 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Kymriah 
The following information is intended for doctors only. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the infusion bag label after EXP. 
Store and transport ≤ -120°C. Do not thaw the product until it is ready to be used. 
Do not use this medicine if the infusion bag is damaged or leaking. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Kymriah contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is tisagenlecleucel. Each infusion bag of Kymriah contains 
tisagenlecleucel cell dispersion at a batch-dependent concentration of autologous T cells 
genetically modified to express an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-positive viable T 
cells). 1 or more bags contain a total of 1.2 × 106 – 6 × 108 CAR+ viable T cells. 
The other ingredients are glucose, sodium chloride, human albumin solution, dextran 40 for 
injection, dimethyl sulfoxide, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate, potassium chloride, 
magnesium chloride, sodium-N-acetyltryptophanate, sodium caprylate, aluminium, and water 
for injections. See section 2, “Kymriah contains sodium, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 
dextran 40 and potassium”. 
This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
What Kymriah looks like and contents of the pack 
Kymriah is a cell dispersion for infusion. It is supplied as an infusion bag containing a cloudy to clear, 
colourless to slightly yellow dispersion of cells. Each bag contains 10 mL to 50 mL of dispersion. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
CELLFORCURE 
ZA de Courtabœuf 
11 avenue des Tropiques 
91940 Les Ulis 
France 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
Kymriah should be transported within the facility in closed, break-proof, leak-proof containers. 
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Kymriah must 
take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and eye protection) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
Before administration, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the unique patient 
information on the Kymriah infusion bags and accompanying documentation. The total number of 
infusion bags to be administered should also be confirmed with the patient specific information on the 
batch specific documentation accompanying the medicinal product. 
The timing of thaw of Kymriah and infusion should be coordinated. The infusion start time should be 
confirmed in advance and adjusted for thaw so that Kymriah is available for infusion when the 
recipient is ready. Once Kymriah has been thawed and is at room temperature (20°C-25°C), it should 
be infused within 30 minutes to maintain maximum product viability, including any interruption 
during the infusion. 
Inspection and thawing of the infusion bag(s) 
Do not thaw the product until it is ready to be used. 
The infusion bag should be placed inside a second sterile bag during thawing to protect ports from 
contamination and avoid spills in the unlikely event of the bag leaking. Kymriah should be thawed at 
37°C using either a water bath or dry thaw method until there is no visible ice in the infusion bag. The 
bag should be removed immediately from the thawing device and kept at room temperature 
(20°C-25°C) until infusion. If more than one infusion bag has been received for the treatment dose 
(refer to the batch certificate for number of bags constituting one dose), the next bag should only be 
thawed after the contents of the preceding bag have been infused. 
Kymriah should not be manipulated. For example, Kymriah should not be washed (spun down and 
resuspended in new media) prior to infusion. 
The infusion bag(s) should be examined for any breaks or cracks prior to thawing. If the infusion bag 
appears to have been damaged or to be leaking, it should not be infused and should be disposed of 
according to local guidelines on handling of biological waste. 
Administration 
Kymriah intravenous infusion should be administered by a healthcare professional experienced with 
immunosuppressed patients and prepared to manage anaphylaxis. In the event of cytokine release 
syndrome (CRS), ensure that at least one dose of tocilizumab per patient and emergency equipment 
are available prior to infusion. Hospitals must have access to additional doses of tocilizumab within 
8 hours. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the 
European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that suitable alternative measures to treat 
cytokine release syndrome are available on site. 
The patient’s identity should be matched with the patient identifiers on the infusion bag. Kymriah is 
intended solely for autologous use and must not, under any circumstances, be administered to other 
patients. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kymriah should be administered as an intravenous infusion using latex-free intravenous tubing 
without a leukocyte depleting filter, at approximately 10 to 20 mL per minute by gravity flow. All 
contents of the infusion bag(s) should be infused. Sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection should be used to prime the tubing prior to infusion and rinse it after infusion. When the full 
volume of Kymriah has been infused, the infusion bag should be rinsed with 10 to 30 mL sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection by back priming to ensure as many cells as possible 
are infused into the patient. 
If the volume of Kymriah to be administered is ≤20 mL, intravenous push may be used as an 
alternative method of administration 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human-derived material should be 
followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Kymriah must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Kymriah (solid and liquid 
waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
