Amsterdam, 15 September 2022 
EMA/800781/2022 
Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT) 
Assessment report 
Kymriah  
International non-proprietary name: tisagenlecleucel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004090/P46/017 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steps taken for the assessment 
Description 
Start of procedure 
Date 
25 Apr 2022 
CAT Rapporteur Assessment Report 
30 May 2022 
CAT conclusion 
CHMP adoption of conclusion  
Submission of responses 
Re-start of procedure 
17 Jun 2022 
23 Jun 2022 
08Aug 2022 
11 Aug 2022 
CAT Rapporteur Assessment Report 
23 Aug 2022 
CAT conclusion 
CHMP adoption of conclusion 
09 Sep 2022 
15 Sep 2022 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1.  Introduction ..................................................................................................... 4 
2.  Scientific discussion ......................................................................................... 4 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation ................................... 18 
4.  Request for supplementary information ......................................................... 19 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 3/21 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 15th March 2022, the MAH submitted a phase II paediatric clinical study for Kymriah 
(tisagenlecleucel; ATC code: L01XX71), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, 
as amended. The study was terminated early on 19 October 2021 by the MAH due to slow recruitment 
of patients. These data are also submitted as part of the post-authorisation measure. A short critical 
expert overview has also been provided. 
This phase II clinical study is not part of any paediatric investigational plan (PIP). 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that the Phase II study CCTL019BUS03 (hereafter referred to as study BUS03) in 
paediatric and adolescent young adult patients with ALL previously treated with tisagenlecleucel who 
experienced loss of B-cell aplasia, and subsequently re-administred tisagenlecleucel is a stand-alone 
study. 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Kymriah is an immunocellular therapy containing tisagenlecleucel, autologous T cells genetically 
modified ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). 
Kymriah comprises cell dispersion for infusion, where 1-3 infusion bags contain a total of 1.2x106 to 
6x108 CAR-positive viable T-cells. The concentration of CAR-positive viable T-cells is dependent on 
patient body weight for treatment of patients with B-cell ALL. The cellular composition and the final cell 
number varies between individual patient batches. 
The approved dose range for paediatric and young adult patients with B-cell ALL is 0.2 to 5x106 CAR-
positive viable T-cells/kg body weight for subjects ≤50 kg and 0.1 to 2.5x108 CAR-positive viable T-
cells (non-weight based) for patients >50 kg.  
No change in formulation was made for the paediatric population in study BUS03. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study CCTL019BUS03 (i.e BUS03) 
Study BUS03 is a phase II, open-label, multi-center trial to determine the efficacy and safety of 
tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in Paediatric and Adolescent Young Adult (AYA) patients with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who were previously treated with tisagenlecleucel and experiencing loss 
of B-cell aplasia. 
Kymriah (INN: tisagenlecleucel, product code CTL019) was approved in the EU via the centralised 
procedure (Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004090) on 23-Aug-2018 and is indicated for the treatment of:  
• 
Paediatric and young adult patients up to and including 25 years of age with B-cell ALL that is 
refractory, in relapse post-transplant or in second or later relapse. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 4/21 
 
 
 
•  Adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or 
more lines of systemic therapy.  
The evidence of efficacy and safety of tisagenlecleucel re-infusion was not evaluated at the time of 
initial marketing authorisation (MA). 
The current submission provides a summary of the findings obtained from Study BUS03. The study 
was terminated early on 19-Oct-2021 by the Sponsor due to slow recruitment of patients. According to 
the MAH, no safety reasons were involved in the decision to terminate the study prematurely. At the 
time of the study termination, there were five patients enrolled, including four paediatric patients 
(aged < 18 years) and one young adult patient (aged ≥ 18 years). 
The low sample size provided insufficient data to perform the planned statistical analyses; therefore, 
the primary and secondary efficacy analyses were not conducted. Available study data were presented 
in listings. 
The final study report is submitted in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, 
which requires that any MAH-sponsored study involving use in a paediatric population of a medicinal 
product covered by a MA, whether it is conducted in compliance with an agreed PIP, should be 
submitted to the competent authority within six months of completion of the concerned study. 
Clinical study BUS03 
A phase II, open label, multi-center trial to determine the efficacy and safety of tisagenlecleucel re-
infusion in Pediatric and Adolescent Young Adult (AYA) patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) experiencing loss of B-cell aplasia. 
Methods 
Objectives and outcome/endpoints 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the incidence of B-cell aplasia within 12 months 
after re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel. Efficacy in this setting will be defined as establishing B cell aplasia 
and/or presence of tisagenlecleucel cells (by qPCR). As per the study protocol, B-cell aplasia was 
defined as peripheral blood absolute B lymphocyte count < 50/μL, as measured by flow cytometry. 
Loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e., B-cell recovery) was defined per protocol as: 
- absolute B-lymphocytes count ≥ 50 μL in peripheral blood for 2 consecutive measurements 1 week 
apart, OR   
- B lymphocytes ≥ 10% of total lymphocytes in peripheral blood, OR 
- Peripheral blood absolute B lymphocyte count ≥ 200/μL (one measurement, no repeat is required) 
Secondary objectives included efficacy of re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel for loss of B-cell aplasia as 
measured by overall remission rate (ORR) with MRD (minimal residual disease) negativity by 
investigator 12 months after re-infusion. ORR included CR and CRi (CR with incomplete blood count 
recovery). MRD was assessed in bone marrow as part of the ORR evaluation. Bone marrow aspirate or 
biopsy was to be performed during screening and at Day 28, and was optional (i.e., to be performed as 
clinically indicated) at Month 3, 6 and 12. 
Additional secondary objectives were evaluation of overall survival (OS), event free survival (EFS) and 
safety evaluation. Cellular immunogenicity was an exploratory objective. Study objectives and related 
endpoints are shown in Table 1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 5/21 
 
 
 
Table 1. Study objectives and related endpoints in study CCTL019BUS03 
Study design 
The study was planned to have the following sequential phases for all patients: Screening, Pre-
Treatment (Lymphodepleting Chemotherapy), Treatment and Follow-up. The total duration of the 
study was planned to 12 months. After tisagenlecleucel re-infusion, efficacy would be assessed at 
month 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12. Safety would be assessed throughout the study. The end of the study was 
planned to be when all patients complete a month 12 visit unless discontinuing prior. However, the 
study was closed early by the MAH due to slow enrolment of patients. 
Patients who receive commercial tisagenlecleucel should be followed for up to 15 years post-infusion. 
Patients can be followed under the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research 
(CIBMTR) cellular therapy registry if consented for participation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
 
 
Study participants 
Table 2. Key inclusion and exclusion criteria 
Treatments 
Lymphodepletion (LD): 
If patients have a White Blood Cell (WBC) count ≤ 1,000 cells/µL within one week prior to 
tisagenlecleucel infusion, lymphodepleting chemotherapy is NOT required. The availability of 
tisagenlecleucel must be confirmed prior to starting the lymphodepleting regimen. Tisagenlecleucel 
should be infused 2 to 14 days after lymphodepletion depending on the lymphodepleting regimen. If 
there is a delay of more than 4 weeks between completing lymphodepleting chemotherapy and the 
infusion and the WBC count is >1,000cells/μL, the patient should be re-treated with lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy prior to receiving tisagenlecleucel. The preferred regimen for paediatric participants is 
as follows: 
•  Cytarabine 500 mg/m2 i.v. daily for 2 days and 
• 
Etoposide 150 mg/m2 i.v. daily for 3 days starting with the first dose of cytarabine 
All paediatric patients received lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine 
prior to tisagenlecleucel re-infusion.  
Tisagenlecleucel infusion: 
The doses available for re-infusion were previously manufactured for each individual patient as 
commercial product and the physician could request an additional dose for commercial release at any 
time, prior to product expiration and subject to availability. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
 
The tisagenlecleucel dose was administered via a single intravenous (IV) infusion. The recommended 
dose range for this trial was consistent with the approved dose range: 
•  0.2 to 5.0×10⁶ CAR positive viable T cells / kg for patients < 50 kg or  
•  0.1 to 2.5×10⁸ CAR-positive viable T cells for patients > 50 kg. 
Sample size 
Sample size was based on an exact test for single proportion to test the null hypothesis H0: p≤0.10, 
where p is the percent of patients who establish B cell aplasia during 12 months. Assuming the true 
rate was p>= 0.25, and a one sided alpha level of 2.5% it was calculated that 49 evaluable patients 
would be required to reach at least 80% power. Accounting for a drop-out rate of 10%, a total of 
approximately 54 patients were planned to be enrolled into the study.  
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
N/A (single arm open-label study)  
Statistical Methods 
Analysis populations 
The Screened Set comprises all patients who have signed informed consent/assent and been screened 
in the study.  
The Enrolled Set (ENS) comprises all patients who are enrolled in the study. Enrollment is defined as 
the point at which the patient meets all inclusion/exclusion criteria and the patients’ additional non-
expired dose of tisagenlecleucel has been confirmed available.  
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) consists of all patients who have received re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel.  
The Safety Set is identical to the FAS.  
The Per-Protocol Set (PPS) consists of a subset of the patients in the FAS (at interim and final analysis 
respectively) who are compliant with major requirements of the clinical study protocol (CSP). Major 
protocol deviations, determined prior to primary analysis, leading to exclusion from the PPS include; 
No diagnosis of ALL at baseline, Prior therapy does not match with CSP requirements in terms of 
number and types of previous therapy regimens, Missing or incomplete documentation of disease.  
The primary analysis was to be performed using the FAS after all patients had completed the 12-month 
follow-up period or discontinued earlier. The Safety Set was to be used for all the safety analysis.  
Primary endpoint 
The primary endpoint for this study was defined as the proportion of patients who restore B-cell aplasia 
(as defined in Section 2.6) within 12 months following re-infusion with tisagenlecleucel as measured by 
circulating B-lymphocytes (<50/μL) in PB. For the primary analysis, percent of patients who establish B 
cell aplasia during 12 months was to be presented together with an exact 95% Clopper-Pearson 
confidence interval. The null hypothesis was to be rejected if the lower limit of the 95% confidence 
interval was greater than 0.10, demonstrating improvement after of reinfusion. Patients in the study 
who were of unknown clinical response was to be treated as non-responders. Other missing data were 
to be noted as missing on appropriate tables/listings. No sensitivity analyses or supportive analyses 
were planned.  
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 8/21 
 
 
 
Analysis of secondary endpoints 
Investigators assessment was to be used in the main analysis of secondary endpoints that involve 
disease assessment.  
Overall Remission rate (ORR), as determined by investigators assessment during the 12 months after 
CTL019 administration, was defined as percentage of patients who maintain ORR (= CR + CRi) with 
MRD negativity per Investigator assessment in pALL patients during 12 months post-reinfusion. The 
ORR in the FAS was to be summarized and 95% confidence interval reported.  
Event free survival (EFS), was defined as the time from date of first CTL019 infusion to the earliest of 
the following: Death from any cause after remission, Relapse, Treatment failure: Defined as no 
response in the study and discontinuation from the study due to any of the following reasons: Death, 
Adverse event (including abnormal laboratory values or abnormal test procedure results), Lack of 
efficacy or progressive disease, New anticancer therapy. In the main analysis of EFS, patients who 
proceed to SCT after CTL019 infusion was to be censored at the time of SCT. In addition, a sensitivity 
analysis of EFS was to be performed without censoring SCT. EFS was to be assessed in all patients in 
the FAS. The distribution function of EFS was to be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the 
median EFS along with 95% confidence intervals presented, if appropriate.  
Overall survival (OS), was defined as the time from date of CTL019 infusion to the date of death due to 
any reason. In case a patient was alive at the date of last contact on or before data cutoff, OS was to 
be censored at the date of last contact. No censoring was to be done in case of SCT, and patients were 
to be followed-up for survival also in case of SCT.  
Subgroup analyses 
Subgroup analyses were planned to only summarise data within each subgroup due to the small 
planned sample size, and to be performed on the primary endpoint based on the patient’s baseline 
status: Age [<10 years, ≥10 years to <18 years, ≥18 years], Gender [Male, Female], Race [White, 
Asian, Other], Patients with a loss of B-cell Aplasia within 9 months of 1st infusion AND are MRD(+) at 
time of enrolment, Patients with a loss of B cell aplasia following first infusion by time period [very 
early (<3 months), early (>3 to <6 months), late (>6 months)].  
Interim analyses 
No formal interim analysis was to be performed for this study. As required, interim analyses would be 
performed every six months annually for publication purpose.  
Assessor’s comment 
The MAH terminated the study early due a very low rate of enrolment, when only 5 out of a planned 54 
patients were enrolled. None of the planned statistical analyses were performed, and study data were 
listed only for the primary objective using the Full Analysis Set. It is agreed that the low sample size 
provides insufficient data to perform the planned statistical analyses.  
Results 
Participant flow 
A total of seven paediatric and adolescent young adult patients were screened, of whom five (4 
paediatrics and 1 young adult) were enrolled while two (1 paediatric and 1 young adult) were screen 
failures. No patient had completed the 12-month study at the time of study closure. One paediatric 
patient was withdrawn from the study on Day 53 due to physician’s decision, as the patient was 
proceeding to transplant, and one paediatric patient was withdrawn from the study on Day 74 due to 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 9/21 
 
 
 
an unsatisfactory therapeutic effect. All other patients (i.e., 2 paediatrics and 1 young adult) completed 
early due to premature study termination by the MAH. 
Post re-infusion treatment 
Two paediatric patients underwent hematopoietic stem-cell transplantations post tisagenlecleucel re-
infusion; one non-adolescent patient had a bone marrow allogenic transplant, and one adolescent 
patient had a peripheral blood allogenic transplant. 
Two paediatric patients (both adolescent) received antineoplastic therapy post tisagenlecleucel re-
infusion; of those, one patient received investigational treatment of humanised CART-19 cells at 
another institution. 
Recruitment 
The study was initiated on 19-Oct-2020 (First Patient First Visit) and completed on 19-Oct-2021 (Last 
Patient Last Visit). All study patients were recruited at four study sites in the US. 
The study was terminated early on 19-Oct-2021 by the MAH due to slow recruitment of patients. 
Assessor’s comment 
The MAH has not provided detailed reasons for the slow recruitment of patients to study BUS03, e.g. 
to which degree feasibility issues was related to low number of patients eligible for retreatment with 
Kymriah, lack of available doses of Kymriah, or if other measures could have facilitated recruitment 
and, thus, prevented the premature closure of the study. A more detailed explanation was provided by 
the MAH with regards to feasibility, including information on the actual number of patients in clinical 
practice receiving a second dose of Kymriah (See Request for Supplementary Information). 
Protocol deviations 
No protocol deviations were registered during the study. 
Baseline data 
All patients enrolled in this study had previously been infused once with tisagenlecleucel for the 
treatment of ALL and received a re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel. Patients were reintroduced to 
tisagenlecleucel at a mean of 120.8 days (range 77-220 days) following the initial infusion.  
Of the four paediatric patients enrolled, two were children (hereafter referred to as non-adolescents), 
aged 3 years and 8 years; and two were adolescents, aged 14 years and 15 years. Most paediatric 
patients included in this study were male (3 patients; 2 non-adolescents and 1 adolescent), and all 
paediatric patients were white.  
Disease (ALL) characteristics 
The age at initial diagnosis of ALL was 2 years for the two non-adolescent patients and ranged from 11 
to 15 years for the two adolescent patients. 
All patients had tumour samples that were positive for presence of CD19 disease prior to study entry, 
except for one patient (the 8-year-old), who had a cerebral spinal fluid sample that tested negative for 
presence of CD19 disease and was assessed as minimal residual disease (MRD) negative. None of the 
paediatric patients at study entry had extra-medullary involvement or elevated lactate dehydrogenase 
at baseline. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 10/21 
 
 
 
Prior treatment 
All paediatric patients received antineoplastic therapies prior to their first tisagenlecleucel infusion, 
except for one non-adolescent patient. All patients received LD chemotherapy with both 
cyclophosphamide and fludarabine prior to re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel. None of the paediatric 
patients received any other antineoplastic therapies prior to re-infusion. 
Number analysed 
At the time of the study termination, there were five patients enrolled, including four paediatric 
patients (aged < 18 years) and 1 young adult patient (aged ≥ 18 years). The low sample size provided 
insufficient data to perform the planned statistical analyses. Therefore, the primary and secondary 
efficacy analyses were not conducted. 
Clinical pharmacology results 
Peripheral blood pharmacokinetic (PK) concentrations for tisagenlecleucel were quantified by qPCR 
using the Murine CART-19 qPCR Assay (A_WI-01188, see bioanalytical report). PK sampling were 
planned at four timepoints following reinfusion (Table 3). Thirteen observations from five patients were 
analysed. Three patients (8y, 14y, 15y) displayed an increase in tisagenlecleucel PK concentration 
from Day 1 to Day 28. No quantifiable PK data were available for the 19-year old on Day 1, or for the 
3-year old at any time point. The 8-year old and 19-year old had a decrease in tisagenlecleucel PK 
concentration from Day 28 to their last assessment whereas the 15-year old patient had an increase in 
PK concentration from Day 28 to her last assessment. Results are presented in Table 3. No patient 
received prior or concomitant tocilizumab medication. 
Table 3. Overview of administered re-infusion tisagenlecleucel dose and observed kinetics 
(copies/µg DNA) as measured by qPCR (Table assembled by assessor, based on study 
synopsis and CSR Listing 14.2-1) 
Patient 
Tisagenlecleucel exposure 
Peripheral blood PK concentration (copies/μg DNA)b, c 
Re-infusion dosed 
Time of initial 
Day 1 
Day 28 
Month 3 
Month 12/EOS 
infusion 
3y, male 
3 × 106 /kg 
Day -77 
8y, male 
4.4 × 106 /kg 
Day -141 
14y, male 
3.07 × 106 /kg 
Day -82 
15y, female 
2.69 × 106 /kg 
Day -84 
19y, male 
4.59 × 106 unitsd 
Day -220 
NQ 
4.2 
99.6 
36.0 
NQ 
NQ 
68.3 
248.0 
NA 
NA 
NA 
200.0 
515.5 
62.3 
11.3 
NA 
33.4 
NA 
NA 
NA 
a The dose is given as number of CAR positive viable T-cells count per kg. The study inclusion criteria specified that 
patients should have an additional dose of unexpired, commercial tisagenlecleucel available. 
b NQ = No quantifiable PK results. NA=not applicable; PK sampling was not performed. 
c Below the limit of quantitation (BLQ) value is < 50 copies/µg DNA. 
d It should be noted this calculation reflects the total cells infused on a per kilogram basis as 4.59 x 106. The CAR 
positive cells infused equals 1.38 x 106 per kg. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 11/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comment: 
The study terminated early with less than 10% (5/54) of the planned study population enrolled. Four 
patients were <18 years and are considered in this P46 procedure. For completeness, results from all 
enrolled patients are reported. 
Patients were reintroduced to tisagenlecleucel at a mean of 120.8 days (range 82-220 days) following 
the initial infusion. The administered doses were within the approved dose range for B-cell ALL. 
(According to the CSR, the dose administered to the 19-year-old with BW 118 kg were 53.2x107 cells.) 
Validated, previously submitted bioanalytical assays for qPCR (RPT-01324 and RPT-10016) were used 
(EPAR, EMEA/H/C/004090/P46/012.1) and bioanalytical methods have not been further evaluated in 
the present assessment report. 
Expansion was observed for three of five patients during the first four weeks; concentrations at D28 
ranged from 68.3 to 248.0 copies/μg DNA. The expansion continued at month 3 for one patient (515.5 
copies/μg DNA). Only one patient provided data at month 12 (i.e. EOS, end of study). No PK 
parameters could be derived based on NCA. No information on observed cellular kinetics following the 
initial infusion of tisagenlecleucel was provided by the Applicant. The initial expansion appears modest 
compared to that observed for paediatric and young adult responders in study B2202 (B-cell ALL), 
however the limited data prevents any confident comparison. 
No conclusions on cellular kinetics following re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel in paediatric and young 
adults with B-cell ALL can be drawn from the very limited data available. To the assessor’s knowledge 
re-infusion data is not available from other studies. 
Efficacy results 
The low sample size provided insufficient data to perform the planned statistical analyses; therefore, 
the primary and secondary efficacy analyses were not conducted. Available study data were presented 
in listings and are descriptive only. 
Primary endpoint  
Loss of B-cell aplasia within 12 months after re-infusion 
Incidence of B-cell aplasia was to be assessed on Day 1 (prior to re-infusion) and at Day 28, Month 3, 
and Month 12. All paediatric patients experienced B-cell aplasia on the day of re-infusion, (i.e., on Day 
1), following lymphodepleting chemotherapy, but prior to re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel. All paediatric 
patients later experienced loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e., B-cell recovery) at the available post-baseline 
time point(s) prior to the early termination of the study. Results for the paediatric patients is shown in 
Table 4 below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
Table 4. B-cell aplasia and B-cell recovery data by patient and time point 
The young adult (19-year-old) had B-cell aplasia on day 1, and experienced B-cell recovery at day 78. 
Secondary endpoints 
Overall remission rate (ORR) after re-infusion  
Overall remission rate includes CR and CRi with MRD negativity, as determined by investigator 
assessment, and was to be assessed at Day 28, and at month 3, 6, and 12. All paediatric patients had 
a best response of CR or CRi around Day 28 (i.e., between Day 24 and Day 34). See Table 5 below: 
Table 5 Overall disease response (ORR) 
The young adult (a 19-year-old) had best response CR at day 28. CR was lost at next evaluation. 
Minimal residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow 
Bone marrow aspirate was performed for all paediatric patients both prior to study entry and during 
the study. The specimen quality was adequate for three of the four paediatric patients (1 non-
adolescent and 2 adolescents), allowing for MRD assessments by flow cytometry 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 13/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the three paediatric patients with adequate specimen quality, two patients (both adolescent) had 
positive phenotype results and one patient (non-adolescent) had negative phenotype results at all 
available time points prior to early termination of study. All three paediatric patients with adequate 
specimen quality had negative overall MRD status around Day 28 (i.e., between Day 24 and Day 32). 
Bone marrow biopsy was performed for three of the four paediatric patients (1 non-adolescent and 2 
adolescents) both prior to study entry and during the study. Of those, two patients (both adolescent) 
had low cell count while one patient (non-adolescent) had a normal cell count at all available time 
points prior to early termination of study. 
Assessor’s comment 
It is acknowledged that the low sample size provided insufficient data to perform the planned statistical 
analyses. The MAH’s possibility to make a comprehensive discussion of the descriptive efficacy results 
from the five enrolled patients is obviously hampered. Although the study BUS03 did not manage to 
clarify potential benefits and risks for the paediatric ALL patients in a re-infusion setting, the issue is 
still of clinical relevance and important questions are left unanswered.  
Safety results 
Study BUS03 was terminated early due to slow recruitment of patients; no safety reasons were 
involved in the decision to terminate the study prematurely. At the time of the study termination, there 
were five patients enrolled, including four paediatric patients (<18 years) and one young adult patient 
(≥18 years). Of the four paediatric patients enrolled, two were children (non-adolescents), aged 3 
years and 8 years; and two were adolescents, aged 14 years and 15 years. The young adult patient 
was a 19-year old. 
Safety was assessed by monitoring the frequency, duration and severity of AEs, performing physical 
examinations, measuring changes in vital signs, body weight and performance status (Karnofsky/ 
Lansky), and evaluating changes in haematology and biochemistry results. AEs (with the exception of 
cytokine release syndrome) were assessed and graded according to CTCAE v4.03 and coded with 
MedDRA v24.1. 
Patients treated with tisagenlecleucel should be monitored for specific toxicities for 15 years post-
infusion, irrespective of their response to tisagenlecleucel. 
Adverse events 
Most paediatric patients (3 patients; 1 non-adolescent and 2 adolescents) experienced ≥ 1 AE during 
the study. The majority of the AEs were CTCAE Grade 1/2, non-serious, and not suspected to be 
related to the study drug. 
Grade 3/4 AEs were reported in two paediatric patients (2 adolescents) and included decreased 
appetite, neutrophil count decreased, anaemia, nausea, stomatitis, polyomavirus viremia, platelet 
count decreased, and hypokalaemia. All Grade 3/4 AEs were assessed as non-serious and none were 
suspected to be related to the study drug, except the non-serious AE of neutrophil count decreased, 
which was suspected to be related to tisagenlecleucel and resolved without treatment medication/ 
therapy given to the patient. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 14/21 
 
 
 
Details from the two patients which experienced Grade 3 and 4 AEs are given below.  
Grade 3 and Grade 4 adverse events 
 14-year old patient had: 
-  Grade 3 stomatitis, decreased appetite and nausea from Day 57 that resolved on Day 80; 
these events were unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. 
-  Grade 4 platelet count decreased from Day 58 that resolved on Day 84; this event was 
unrelated to tisagenlecleucel but was assessed as related to leukapheresis. 
-  Grade 3 hypokalaemia from Day 60 that resolved on Day 62; this event was unrelated to 
tisagenlecleucel. 
-  Grade 3 anaemia from Day 64 that resolved on Day 91; this event was unrelated to 
tisagenlecleucel. 
-  Grade 3 polyomavirus viremia from Day 79 that had not resolved at the time of study closure; 
this event was unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. 
 15-year old (female) patient had: 
-  Grade 3 neutrophil count decreased from Day 4 to Day 11 that worsened to Grade 4 on Day 11 
and then resolved on Day 18; both events were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel. 
-  Grade 4 neutrophil count decreased from Day 84 that had not resolved at time of study 
closure; this event was unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. 
-  Grade 3 decreased appetite on Day 162 that had not resolved at time of study closure; this 
event was unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. 
Deaths and other serious or clinically relevant adverse events 
No patients died during the study. 
Serious adverse events 
Three patients experienced a total of 4 SAEs during the study; 2 were assessed as related to 
tisagenlecleucel: 
 8-year old patient had Grade 1 paresthesia and Grade 2 headache on Day 4 that resolved the 
following day; both events were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel. This patient was in general 
ward for 1 day due to an AE. 
 15-year old (female) patient had grade 1 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) on Day 155 that 
resolved on Day 163; the event occurred after the patient received investigational treatment of 
humanized CAR-T cells at another institution, and was assessed as unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. This 
patient was in general ward for 8 days due to an AE. 
 19-year old patient had Grade 2 pyrexia on Day 21 that resolved on Day 23; the event was 
assessed as unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. This patient was in intensive care unit (ICU) for 28 days for 
LD chemotherapy and tisagenlecleucel re-infusion; and emergency room for 1 day and general ward 
for 2 days due to an AE. 
No AEs led to study discontinuation. 
No AEs of special interest were reported during the course of the study, except the above-mentioned 
case of cytokine release syndrome. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
Clinical chemistry / hematology 
Laboratory data and vital signs 
No definite trends were observed with regard to laboratory data. All patients had some abnormal 
laboratory parameters at screening and during the study; however, most laboratory abnormalities 
were not assessed as AEs. Those that were assessed as Grade 3 or 4 AEs or SAEs are described above. 
Vital signs data were generally unremarkable. 
Assessor’s comments 
Four (4) paediatric patients (3, 8, 14, and 15 years old, respectively) and one young adult (19-year 
old) participated in this study which was early terminated due to slow recruitment and not due to 
safety reasons. 
Most AEs were of Grade 1 or 2 i.e. of mild to moderate intensity, however, the MAH does not describe 
what kind of adverse events, and how many these were. 
Two patients (14-year old, and 15-year old) experienced a total of eight Grade 3 AEs and three Grade 
4 AEs; none were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel, except for one Grade 3 and one Grade 4 
event of neutrophil count decreased in one patient (15-year old female), both of which had resolved 
prior to study closure. This latter patient later developed neutrophil count decreased again, which was 
not assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel by the investigator. However, for CAR T therapy, it is found 
that prolonged or recurrent cytopenias have been increasingly reported at varying rates. No further 
details are given in this case. 
Three patients (8-year old, 15-year old and 19-year old) experienced a total of 4 SAEs during the 
study. The 8-year old had paresthesia and headache on Day 4 that resolved the following day; both 
events were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel. The 15-year old had cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS), and the 19-year old had pyrexia; both events were assessed as unrelated to tisagenlecleucel. 
No other patient experienced CRS during the study. The three patients who experienced SAEs were all 
hospitalized during the study due to AEs.  
No AEs of special interest were reported during the course of the study, except the above-mentioned 
case of cytokine release syndrome, which started after the patient was given a novel, investigational 
treatment of humanized CART-19 cells at another institution and was not considered as related to the 
study drug. 
No patient discontinued due to an AE and no patient died during the study. According to the MAH, 
there was no impact to patient safety due to COVID-19 during the conduct of this trial. 
Although no definite safety conclusions can be drawn from this study due to very limited data with four 
enrolled paediatric patients only in addition to one young adult, no new safety signals were detected. 
Summary of COVID-19 impact 
The COVID-19 pandemic, caused by SARS-CoV-2, was first identified by the World Health Organization 
in Dec-2019 and was declared as a pandemic on 11-Mar-2020. Prior to Mar-2020, the study had not 
yet opened to enrolment or enrolled any patients. In Mar-2020, following Novartis guidance, the 
clinical trial team for this study was informed to continue opening the study as there were no major 
operational issues. 
Overall, there were no major changes in the conduct of the study due to COVID-19. There was no 
impact on patient recruitment. Onsite monitoring was performed at a reduced frequency due to 
COVID-19 but monitoring plan reflected this frequency and contained provisions for remote 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 16/21 
 
 
 
monitoring. There was no impact to patient safety due to COVID-19 during the conduct of this trial. No 
patients tested positive for COVID-19 during their participation in the trial. One patient (young adult) 
had documented COVID-19 infection in their medical history, several months prior to enrolment into 
the trial. Patients attended trial visits as planned. There were no protocol deviations related to 
COVID-19. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study CCTL019BUS03 (Study BUS03), a Phase 2, open-label study, was set up to determine the 
efficacy and safety of tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in paediatric and AYA patients with ALL experiencing 
loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e. B-cell recovery). The results of study BSU03, which is not part of a PIP, are 
now submitted and reviewed under this Article 46 procedure. The study was closed early by the 
Sponsor due to very slow enrolment of patients, which meant that only five patients were enrolled as 
opposed to 54 patients as originally planned. At the time of study closure, four male patients who were 
3, 8, 14 and 19 years of age, and one female patient who was 15 years of age had been enrolled. 
Therefore, no statistical analysis of the study endpoints was possible; efficacy, safety and PK data were 
listed only. No comprehensive discussion of the study results is feasible given the very limited and 
descriptive data provided. 
It is acknowledged that the low sample size provided insufficient data to perform the planned statistical 
analyses. The MAH’s possibility to make a comprehensive discussion of the descriptive efficacy and 
safety results from the five enrolled patients is obviously hampered. Although the study BUS03 did not 
manage to clarify potential benefits and risks for the paediatric patients in a re-infusion setting, the 
issue is still of clinical relevance and important questions are left unanswered. The MAH was requested 
to further elaborate on reasons for slow recruitment in study BUS03, including information on the 
actual number of patients in clinical practice receiving a second dose of Kymriah which was adequately 
answered. 
Efficacy 
Study BUS03’s primary objective was to evaluate the incidence of B-cell aplasia after re-infusion of 
tisagenlecleucel in paediatric patients with ALL experiencing loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e. B-cell recovery). 
The primary endpoint was defined as proportion of patients who establish B-cell aplasia within 12 
months of re-infusion, as measured by circulating B lymphocytes (< 50/μL) and presence of CTL019 
cells by qPCR in the peripheral blood. 
All four (4) paediatric patients experienced B-cell aplasia on the day of re-infusion, (i.e., on Day 1), 
following lymphodepleting chemotherapy, but prior to re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel. All four patients 
later experienced loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e., B-cell recovery) prior to early termination of the study.  
All paediatric patients had a best response of ORR (CR + Cri) around Day 28 (i.e., between Day 24 and 
Day 34) and prior to early termination of the study. 
No conclusions can be drawn regarding efficacy of re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel in paediatric patients 
with ALL based on the limited and descriptive data provided. 
Cellular kinetics 
Modest expansion was observed for three paediatric patients during the first four weeks, and 
expansion continued at month 3 for one of the patients. Only one paediatric patient provided data at 
month 12 (i.e. EOS, end of study). No conclusions on cellular kinetics following re-infusion of 
tisagenlecleucel in paediatric patients with ALL can be drawn based on the very limited available data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
Safety 
Most AEs were of Grade 1 or 2 i.e. of mild to moderate intensity, however, the MAH does not describe 
what kind of adverse events these are, and how many. 
Two patients (14-year old, and 15-year old) experienced a total of eight Grade 3 AEs and three Grade 
4 AEs; none were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel, except for one Grade 3 and one Grade 4 
event of neutrophil count decreased in one patient (15-year old female), both of which had resolved 
prior to study closure. This latter patient later developed neutrophil count decreased again, which 
event was not assessed as related by the investigator. However, for CAR T therapy, it is found that 
prolonged or recurrent cytopenias have been increasingly reported at varying rates. No further details 
are given in this case. 
Three patients (8-year old, 15-year old and 19-year old) experienced a total of 4 SAEs during the 
study. The 8-year old had paresthesia and headache on Day 4 that resolved the following day; both 
events were assessed as related to tisagenlecleucel. The 15-year old had CRS, and the 19-year old had 
pyrexia; both events were assessed as unrelated to tisagenlecleucel.  
No AEs of special interest were reported during the course of the study, except the above-mentioned 
case of cytokine release syndrome, which was not considered as related to the study drug. 
No patient discontinued due to an AE. No patient died during the study. According to the MAH, there 
was no impact to patient safety due to COVID-19 during the conduct of this trial. 
Although no definite safety conclusions can be drawn from this study due to very limited data with 4 
enrolled paediatric patients only in addition to one young adult, no new safety signals were detected. 
No updates on the product information based on data from the study BUS03 has been proposed. 
However, the MAH was asked to discuss whether the limited data on efficacy and safety for 
tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in general ought to be reflected in the SmPC section 4.2. The requested 
discussion has been provided and accepted by the Rapporteur. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
In accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the MAH has submitted the final study 
results from the complete data set of study BUS03, a Phase 2, open-label study, set up to determine 
the efficacy and safety of tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in paediatric and AYA patients with ALL 
experiencing loss of B-cell aplasia (i.e. B-cell recovery). The study was closed early by the MAH due to 
slow enrolment of patients, which meant that only five patients (i.e. four paediatric patients and one 
young adult) were enrolled. Therefore, no analyses of cellular kinetics, efficacy and safety following 
re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel in paediatric patients with ALL were conducted. Thus, no comprehensive 
discussion and conclusion of the results is feasible given the limited available data. 
No new safety signals were detected. 
As re-infusion of tisagenlecleucel is of clinical relevance and important questions are left unanswered, 
the MAH was requested to elaborate on reasons for slow recruitment. In addition, the MAH was asked 
to discuss whether an update of the SmPC is warranted. These requests are considered adequately 
addressed by the MAH. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 18/21 
 
 
 
Fulfilled 
4.  Request for supplementary information 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following questions as part of this 
procedure: 
1.  The MAH has not provided detailed reasons for the slow recruitment of patients to study BUS03, 
e.g to which degree feasibility issues was related to low number of patients eligible for retreatment 
with Kymriah, lack of available doses of Kymriah, or if other measures could have facilitated 
recruitment and, thus, prevented the premature closure of the study. A more detailed explanation 
should be provided with regards to feasibility, including information on the actual number of 
patients in clinical practice receiving a second dose of Kymriah. 
2.  Independently of the results from study BUS03, the applicant is asked to discuss whether the 
limited data on efficacy and safety for tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in general ought to be reflected 
in the SmPC section 4.2. 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
Question 1 
The MAH has not provided detailed reasons for the slow recruitment of patients to study BUS03, e.g to 
which degree feasibility issues was related to low number of patients eligible for retreatment with 
Kymriah, lack of available doses of Kymriah, or if other measures could have facilitated recruitment 
and, thus, prevented the premature closure of the study. A more detailed explanation should be 
provided with regards to feasibility, including information on the actual number of patients in clinical 
practice receiving a second dose of Kymriah. 
Summary of MAH answer 
CCTL019BUS03 trial was designed and conducted in the United States (USA) only. Results were 
reported in the European Union in line with the article 46 requirements, but no European sites 
participated in the trial. 
The slow recruitment of patients to study CTL019BUS03 could be explained by the existing alternative 
set up to get access to additional Kymriah dose outside of this clinical trial as well as the limited 
additional dose requests. 
Also, in the USA, physicians are able to access additional commercial doses of Kymriah outside of the 
clinical trial at no cost. This is possible prior to the product 9-month expiry date via a request for 
additional available commercial product. Hence patients are not required to participate in the 
CCTL019BUS03 clinical trial to receive these additional doses, contributing to the difficulty in 
enrollment. Therefore, the inclusion criteria that required doses to be requested within the in-
specification 9-month expiry date was a limiting factor to enrollment as the requests for additional cells 
for reinfusion can also be done via the commercial process. The additional burden of meeting 
Inclusion/Exclusion criteria for the trial could also explain the limited patient participation in 
CCTL019BUS03 trial. 
Additionally, the rate of additional Kymriah dose request evolved over time and may have been 
overestimated at time of protocol concept development. CCTL019BUS03 trial was designed with a 1-
year enrollment period. During the enrollment period (October 2020 to October 2021), there were 37 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
 
commercially released additional doses for reinfusion in paediatric ALL in the USA. Thirteen doses went 
to sites that opened the trial for enrollment and 5 of these 13 doses went to patients meeting 
inclusion/exclusion criteria for the trial that also enrolled into the trial. It is noted that 7 doses went to 
sites planning to participate in the trial, that had not yet opened, but it is not known if those patients 
would have met CCTL019BUS03 inclusion/exclusion criteria. The remainder of the additional doses 
requested were released commercially, to sites not participating in the trial. The low number of 
requests, particularly at participating sites, supports Novartis’s assertion that it was no longer feasible 
to reach the enrollment goal of 54 patients within a reasonable time period. 
Rapporteur Assessment 
The MAH has provided a summary of reasons for slow recruitment of patients to study BUS03. 
According to the MAH, the main reasons are the limited additional dose requests, as well as the 
existing alternative for physicians in the US to get access to these additional Kymriah doses outside of 
this clinical trial. 
During the enrollment period (October 2020 to October 2021), there were 37 commercially released 
additional doses for reinfusion in paediatric ALL in the USA. However, only 5 of these doses went to 
participants enrolled to the trial. Twenty-four (24) doses went to sites not participating in the trial (17 
doses) or sites that had not yet opened the trial (7 doses). 
The low number of requests, even at sites enrolling participants, is a plausible explanation to the slow 
recruitment during the enrollment period of one year. It is acknowleged that at the time of protocol 
development the feasibility of patient recruitment was unknown, and in hindsight, the goal of accruing 
54 patients may have been somewhat optimistic. 
Conclusion 
Issue resolved 
Question 2 
Independently of the results from study BUS03, the applicant is asked to discuss whether the limited 
data on efficacy and safety for tisagenlecleucel re-infusion in general ought to be reflected in the SmPC 
section 4.2. 
Summary of MAH answer 
There is limited data on efficacy and safety for tisagenlecleucel re-infusion. CCTL019BUS03 was early 
terminated due to low enrollment and no conclusions on reinfusion could be elaborated from this 
clinical trial. In commercial practice, reinfusion is at the discretion of the physician in consultation with 
the patient and family. Novartis is able to provide additional cells if available, when requested, with 
clear guidelines regarding whether this can be released commercially prior to the 9-month expiry date 
or requires additional Health Authority review and approval. Very limited efficacy and/or safety data is 
available from these reinfusions for patients enrolled in the CIBMTR registry and reported to Novartis in 
the context of CCTL019B2401 study, but currently no data on B cell aplasia vs recovery is captured, 
neither is the indication for reinfusion. Many of these patients move to HSCT shortly after reinfusion, 
hence any efficacy or safety data may be more related to the subsequent allogeneic HSCT and/or other 
anti-neoplastic therapy. 
Considering the very limited data on reinfusion available, the low proportion of additional dose(s) 
requests for patients treated in the post-marketing setting, also that Kymriah is approved as a single 
dose treatment and Novartis does not intent to promote off label use, no SmPC update is proposed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
Rapporteur Assessment 
The MAH’s discussion regarding limited safety and efficacy data for tisagenlecleucel re-infusion is 
acknowledged. Not updating the SmPC section 4.2 based on the limited new information available is 
agreed.  
Conclusion 
Issue resolved. 
Assessment report  
EMA/800781/2022  
Page 21/21 
 
 
 
