19 September 2019 
EMA/573870/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): carfilzomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010448/201901 
Period covered by the PSUR: 19 January 2018 – 19 January 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for carfilzomib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Based on a number of angioedema cases reported in relation to carfilzomib monotherapy or combination 
therapy,  5  of  which  with  positive  dechallenge,  and  the  plausible  mechanism  considering  possible  class 
effect (bortezomib has angioedema included in section 4.8 of SmPC), as well as presented cases which 
suggest causal role of carfilzomib, the PRAC considers that the product information (PI) should be updated 
to include this adverse reaction. 
A number of cases of Hepatitis B reactivation have been identified in relation to carfilzomib treatment. 
These included 1 well-documented serious case of hepatitis B reactivation with a likely association with 
carfilzomib and no substantial confounders, and 1 case of hepatitis B reactivation suggestive of a causal 
association which developed with the addition of carfilzomib to an ongoing regimen of lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone, as well as 20 other serious cases which had, at minimum, a plausible temporal association 
with  carfilzomib.  Based  on  high  number  of  cases,  plausible  mechanism  and  seriousness  of  the  risk, 
hepatitis B reactivation is proposed to be added as an adverse drug reaction in the SmPC and PL. A relevant 
warning should also be included. 
Cardiac disorders are known adverse drug reactions of carfilzomib. Based on the number of relevant cases 
reported cumulatively, including 16 events with a fatal outcome during the reporting period, the existing 
warning  on  cardiac  disorders  should  be  updated  to  recommend  that  patients  should  be  evaluated  for 
cardiovascular  risk  factors  before  treatment  with  carfilzomib,  that  a  comprehensive  cardiological 
assessment should be considered for patients at high-risk for cardiovascular disease and that hypertension 
should be controlled during treatment, as a history of hypertension was frequently reported in patients 
presenting with cardiac disorders.  
There is biological plausibility for carfilzomib induced PML (lymphopenia and opportunistic infections are 
expected ADRs). PML is known safety issue of bortezomib, which belongs to the same class as carfilzomib. 
In addition and according to the agreed case definition by Mentzer et al., two cases of level 1, one case of 
level 2 and one case of level 3 were identified. In line with the labelling and risk minimisation activities 
proposed by Segec et al, inclusion of a warning on PML in section 4.4 of the SmPC is warranted. The PL is 
updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for carfilzomib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing carfilzomib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/573870/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
