25 February 2021 
EMA/107362/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): carfilzomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010448/202007 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 July 2019 – 18 July 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for carfilzomib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Following  the  assessment  of  available  data  on  bradycardia  from  clinical  trials,  literature,  spontaneous 
reports including 2 cases with a close temporal relationship (within 1 day or less from latest carfilzomib 
infusion) and accompanying symptoms, which are suggestive of a possible infusion reaction, a positive 
re-challenge in one case, and in view of a plausible mechanism of action the PRAC concluded that a causal 
relationship between carfilzomib and bradycardia as a symptom of infusion related reaction is possible. 
Therefore,  an  update  of  the  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  to  add  a  warning  on  bradycardia  as  symptom  of 
infusion related reaction was decided. The Package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Following  the  assessment  of  available  data  on  ventricular  tachycardia  from  clinical  trials,  literature, 
spontaneous  reports,  including  2  cases  with  a  close  temporal  relationship,  and  in  view  of  a  plausible 
mechanism  of  action,  the  PRAC  considers  a  causal  relationship  between  carfilzomib  and  ventricular 
tachycardia cannot be excluded. Therefore, an update of SmPC in section 4.4 to add a warning that reports 
of ventricular tachycardia have been reported in patients receiving carfilzomib and in section 4.8 to add 
ventricular tachycardia as an adverse event with frequency uncommon has been decided.  
Following the assessment of available data from cumulative review of QT prolongation events showing 
the source distribution of reviewed serious events (of total 39 serious event: spontaneous (n = 17), PM 
NIS (n = 12), literature (n = 6), solicited (n = 2),  MAH sponsored clinical trial (n = 1), and non-MAH 
sponsored  clinical  trial  (n =  1)),  an  update  of  section  4.4  was  decided  to  reflect  the  occurrence  of  QT 
prolongation also in the postmarketing setting in addition to the existing wording about relevant reports 
only in clinical studies  
Following the assessment of available data from clinical trials, spontaneous reports, including 10 cases 
with a close temporal relationship (a positive rechallenge and dechallenge, and a potential class effect, 
the PRAC considers a causal relationship between carfilzomib and acute pancreatitis established. The PRAC 
Rapporteur  concluded  that  an  update  of  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  to  add  the  acute  pancreatitis  with  a 
frequency uncommon is necessary. The Package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
   The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for carfilzomib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing carfilzomib is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/107362/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
