22 February 2018 
EMA/254102/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): carfilzomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010448/201707 
Period covered by the PSUR: 20 January 2017 – 19 July 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for carfilzomib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Analysis of all available data indicates 39 events of confusional state (of which 1 was fatal) reported in 
clinical trials (CT) and 70 events of confusional state (19 serious [of which 1 was fatal]) reported in Post 
Marketing (PM). Based on the data provided there is notable time to onset (TTO), both from CT and PM 
data case of dechallenge and rechallenge have been reported, as well as of dose reduction. Data 
indicating that Health Care Professionals (HCP) have decided to interrupt/modify/stop treatment with 
Kyprolis in this life-threatening indication due to occurrence of this adverse drug reaction (ADR) is 
additional evidence to a reasonable possibility of carfilzomib causal role. Based on this, the adverse drug 
reaction “confusional state” is being added to section 4.8. of the SmPC. The package leaflet is updated 
accordingly.   
Cumulatively, 37 cases of herpes zoster infections were reported in PM setting, while High Level Term 
(HLT) herpes viral infections were reported in 86/2944 subjects in Clinical Trials (CT). Herpes infection 
cases occurred in both monotherapy studies, as well as in studies where carfilzomib was combined with 
dexamethasone and other products (such as lenalidomide-dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide-
dexamethasone, melphalan-prednisone, or carboplatin-etoposide). The most frequently reported 
preferred term (PTs) were herpes zoster, oral herpes and herpes simplex and majority of patients 
recovered. Taking into account clinical relevance of the herpes zoster condition, as well as information 
provided in the SmPCs of other similar agents (bortezomib, ixazomib) i.e. class effect and plausible 
mechanism, the PRAC proposes to include herpes zoster in section 4.8 of the SmPC with frequency 
common based on CT data. It should be also clearly stated that incidence is based on CT data in which 
most of patients received prophylaxis. The section 4.2 of the SmPC is also aligned with this new 
information included in section 4.8.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for carfilzomib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing carfilzomib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/254102/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
