EMA/192988/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005243 
Lacosamide UCB (lacosamide) 
An overview of Lacosamide UCB and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lacosamide UCB and what is it used for? 
Lacosamide UCB is a medicine used on its own or as an add-on to other epilepsy medicines in the 
treatment of partial-onset seizures (epileptic fits starting in one specific part of the brain) with or 
without secondary generalisation (where the abnormal electrical activity spreads through the brain) in 
patients aged 24 years or older. 
Lacosamide UCB can also be used as add-on to other epilepsy medicines in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, including loss of consciousness) in patients from 4 years 
of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic 
cause).  
Lacosamide UCB contains the active substance lacosamide and is the same as Vimpat, which is already 
authorised in the EU. The company that makes Vimpat has agreed that its scientific data can be used 
for Lacosamide UCB (‘informed consent’). 
How is Lacosamide UCB used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets, as a syrup and as a 
solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. Lacosamide UCB should be taken twice a day; the dosage 
depends on the patient’s weight and age, as well as whether Lacosamide UCB is used alone or with 
other epilepsy medicines. 
Lacosamide UCB infusion can be used to begin treatment. It can also be used in patients who are 
temporarily unable to take the medicine by mouth. 
For more information about using Lacosamide UCB, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lacosamide UCB work? 
The active substance in Lacosamide UCB, lacosamide, is an epilepsy medicine. Epilepsy is caused by 
excessive electrical activity in the brain. The exact way in which lacosamide works is still unclear but it 
seems to reduce the activity of sodium channels (pores on the surface of nerve cells) that allow 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
electrical impulses to be transmitted between nerve cells. This action may prevent abnormal electrical 
activity in the brain, reducing the chance of an epileptic fit. 
What benefits of Lacosamide UCB have been shown in studies? 
Partial-onset seizures 
Lacosamide UCB was effective at reducing partial-onset seizures in three main studies involving a total 
of 1,308 patients aged 16 years and above also taking other epilepsy medicines. Patients were given 
Lacosamide UCB by mouth at a dose of 200 mg, 400 mg or 600 mg a day, or placebo (a dummy 
treatment) in addition to their existing epilepsy medicines. Taking the results of the three main studies 
together, 34% of the patients taking Lacosamide UCB 200 mg a day and 40% of those taking 
Lacosamide UCB 400 mg a day with their existing treatment had a reduction in their seizures by at 
least half after 12 weeks of treatment. This compared with 23% of the patients receiving placebo. The 
600-mg dose was as effective as the 400-mg dose, but it had more side effects. 
A fourth study involving 888 recently diagnosed patients found that Lacosamide UCB, used on its own 
at a dose of 200 mg to 600 mg a day, was at least as effective as carbamazepine, another epilepsy 
medicine. The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients who did not have a 
partial-onset seizure for at least 6 months after reaching a stable dose. This was found to be 90% in 
those taking Lacosamide UCB and 91% in those taking carbamazepine. Around 78% of Lacosamide 
UCB-treated and 83% of carbamazepine-treated patients did not have a seizure for 12 months. 
Two additional studies looked at the appropriate duration of the infusion for Lacosamide UCB solution 
and compared its safety with that of placebo infusions in a total of 199 patients. An additional study in 
118 patients was carried out to test that starting treatment with doses of 200 mg Lacosamide UCB by 
infusion, followed by regular doses taken by mouth, can be applied safely and that adequate levels in 
the body are achieved. The company also provided data to support dosing of Lacosamide UCB in 
children from 24 years of age and supportive results from studies of the safety of Lacosamide UCB in 
this population. 
Tonic-clonic seizures 
A further study involving 242 patients from 4 years with idiopathic generalised epilepsy compared 
Lacosamide UCB with placebo, both used with other epilepsy medicines. The study showed that Vimpat 
lowered the risk of having a tonic-clonic seizure: after 24 weeks of treatment, around 31% of patients 
taking Vimpat were free from seizures compared with around 17% of patients receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Lacosamide UCB? 
The most common side effects with Lacosamide UCB (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
dizziness, headache, diplopia (double vision) and nausea (feeling sick). The risk of side effects affecting 
the nervous system such as dizziness may be higher after a high first dose and dizziness was the most 
common reason for stopping treatment. 
Lacosamide UCB must not be used in people who have second- or third-degree AV block (a type of 
heart rhythm disorder). For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Lacosamide UCB, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Lacosamide UCB authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Lacosamide UCB, used alone or added to other epilepsy 
medicines, had been shown to be effective in the treatment of partial-onset and tonic clonic seizures. 
Lacosamide UCB (lacosamide)  
EMA/192988/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Taking its side effects into account, the Agency decided that Lacosamide UCB’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lacosamide UCB? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lacosamide UCB have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lacosamide UCB are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Lacosamide UCB are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Lacosamide UCB 
Lacosamide UCB received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 August 2019. 
Further information on Lacosamide UCB can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lacosamide-ucb.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2022. 
Lacosamide UCB (lacosamide)  
EMA/192988/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
