EMA/162596/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006047 
Lacosamide Adroiq (lacosamide) 
An overview of Lacosamide Adroiq and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lacosamide Adroiq and what is it used for? 
Lacosamide Adroiq is a medicine used on its own or as an add-on to other epilepsy medicines in the 
treatment of partial-onset seizures (epileptic fits starting in one specific part of the brain) with or 
without secondary generalisation (where the abnormal electrical activity spreads through the brain) in 
patients with epilepsy aged 2 years and older. 
Lacosamide Adroiq can also be used as add-on to other epilepsy medicines in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, including loss of consciousness) in patients from 4 years 
of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic 
cause). 
Lacosamide Adroiq is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Lacosamide Adroiq contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU. 
The reference medicine for Lacosamide Adroiq is Vimpat. For more information on generic medicines, 
see the question-and-answer document here. 
Lacosamide Adroiq contains the active substance lacosamide. 
How is Lacosamide Adroiq used? 
Lacosamide Adroiq is available as a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein and is given twice a day. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For more information about using Lacosamide Adroiq, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lacosamide Adroiq work? 
The active substance in Lacosamide Adroiq, lacosamide, is an epilepsy medicine. Epilepsy is caused by 
abnormal electrical activity in the brain. The exact way in which lacosamide works is unclear but it 
seems to reduce the activity of sodium channels (pores on the surface of nerve cells) that allow 
electrical impulses to be transmitted between nerve cells. This action may prevent abnormal electrical 
activity in the brain, reducing the chance of an epileptic fit. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Lacosamide Adroiq been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Vimpat, and do not need to be repeated for Lacosamide 
Adroiq.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Lacosamide Adroiq. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Lacosamide Adroiq is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Lacosamide Adroiq is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lacosamide Adroiq? 
Because Lacosamide Adroiq is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
For the list of side effects and restrictions with Lacosamide Adroiq, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lacosamide Adroiq authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Lacosamide 
Adroiq has been shown to be comparable to Vimpat. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Vimpat, the benefits of Lacosamide Adroiq outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lacosamide Adroiq? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lacosamide Adroiq have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lacosamide Adroiq are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Lacosamide Adroiq are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Lacosamide Adroiq 
Lacosamide Adroiq received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 May 2023. 
Further information on Lacosamide Adroiq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lacosamide-adroiq. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website 
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Lacosamide Adroiq (lacosamide)  
EMA/216597/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
