ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Adroiq 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
Each vial of 20 ml solution for infusion contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 2.99 mg sodium.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless solution. 
The pH is between 3.8 and 5.0 and osmolality is between 275 and 320 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lacosamide Adroiq is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age with 
epilepsy. 
Lacosamide Adroiq is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
• 
• 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults, adolescents and 
children from 4 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate formulation and strength according to weight and 
dose. 
Lacosamide therapy can be initiated with either oral administration (either tablets or syrup) or 
intravenous administration (solution for infusion). Solution for infusion is an alternative for patients 
when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. The overall duration of treatment with 
intravenous lacosamide is at the physician’s discretion; there is experience  from clinical studies with 
twice daily infusions of lacosamide for up to 5 days in adjunctive therapy. Conversion to or from oral 
and intravenous administration can be done directly without titration. The total daily dose and twice 
daily administration should be maintained. Monitor closely patients with known cardiac conduction 
problems, on concomitant medicinal products that prolong PR interval, or with severe cardiac disease 
(e.g. myocardial ischemia, heart failure) when lacosamide dose is higher than 400 mg/day (see Method 
of administration below and section 4.4). 
Lacosamide must be taken twice a day (approximately 12 hours apart). 
The recommended posology for adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age is summarised in 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the following table. 
Table 1 Recommended posology for adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and 
adults 
Starting dose 
Monotherapy: 50 mg twice a day 
(100 mg/day) or 100 mg twice a day 
(200 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: 50 mg twice a 
day (100 mg/day) 
Titration  
(incremental steps) 
50 mg twice a day  
(100 mg/day) at weekly 
intervals 
Maximum recommended dose 
Monotherapy: up to 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: up to 
200 mg twice a day 
(400 mg/day) 
Alternative initial dose* (if applicable): 200 mg single loading dose followed by 100 mg twice a 
day (200 mg/day) 
*A loading dose may be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid 
attainment of lacosamide steady state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It should 
be administered under medical supervision with consideration of the potential for increased incidence of 
serious cardiac arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 4.8). 
Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status epilepticus. 
Table 2 Recommended posology for children from 2 years of age and adolescents 
weighing less than 50 kg 
Starting dose 
Monotherapy and Adjunctive 
therapy:  
1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) 
Titration  
(incremental steps) 
1 mg/kg twice a day 
(2 mg/kg/day) at 
weekly intervals 
Maximum recommended dose 
Monotherapy: 
- up to 6 mg/kg twice a day  
(12 mg/kg/day) in patients 
≥ 10 kg to < 40 kg 
- up to 5 mg/kg twice a day 
(10 mg/kg/day) in patients 
≥ 40 kg to < 50 kg 
Adjunctive therapy: 
- up to 6 mg/kg twice a day 
(12 mg/kg/day) in patients 
≥ 10 kg to < 20 kg 
- up to 5 mg/kg twice a day  
(10 mg/kg/day) in patients 
≥ 20 kg to < 30 kg 
- up to 4 mg/kg twice a day 
(8 mg/kg/day) in patients 
≥ 30 kg to < 50 kg 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) after one week. 
Lacosamide can also be initiated at the dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) based on the 
physician's assessment of required seizure reduction versus potential side effects.  
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day).  
In patients having reached a dose greater than 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) and who need an 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
additional antiepileptic medicinal product, the posology that is recommended for adjunctive therapy 
below should be followed. 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial               therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 200 mg 
twice a day (400 mg/day). 
Children from 2 years of age and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
The dose is determined based on body weight.  
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week.  
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1 mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually increased until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. In children weighing from 10 kg to 
less than 40 kg, a maximum dose of up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In 
children weighing from 40 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is 
recommended. 
The tables below provide examples of volumes of solution for infusion per administration depending 
on prescribed dose and body weight. The precise volume of solution for infusion is to be calculated 
according to the exact body weight of the child. 
Table 3: Monotherapy doses in the treatment of partial-onset seizures to be taken twice a day for 
children from 2 years of age weighing from 10 kg to less than 40 kg 
Week 2 
Week 6 
Week 3 
Week 4 
Week 1 
Week 5 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
0.1 ml/kg  
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting 
dose 
0.2 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
0.3 ml/kg  
(3 mg/kg) 
0.4 ml/kg  
(4 mg/kg) 
0.5 ml/kg 
(5 mg/kg) 
Weight 
10 kg 
15 kg 
20 kg 
25 kg 
30 kg 
35 kg 
1 ml  
(10 mg) 
1.5 ml  
(15 mg) 
2 ml  
(20 mg) 
2.5 ml 
 (25 mg) 
3 ml 
 (30 mg) 
3.5 ml 
 (35 mg) 
2 ml  
(20 mg) 
3 ml  
(30 mg) 
4 ml  
(40 mg) 
5 ml  
(50 mg) 
6 ml  
(60 mg) 
7 ml  
(70 mg) 
Volume administered 
4 ml  
3 ml  
(40 mg) 
(30 mg) 
6 ml 
4.5 ml  
 (60 mg) 
(45 mg) 
8 ml 
6 ml  
 (80 mg) 
(60 mg) 
10 ml  
7.5 ml  
(100 mg) 
(75 mg) 
12 ml  
9 ml 
(120 mg) 
 (90 mg) 
14 ml 
10.5 ml 
 (140 mg) 
(105 mg) 
5 ml  
(50 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
12.5 ml 
(125 mg) 
15 ml 
(150 mg) 
17.5 ml 
(175 mg) 
0.6 ml/kg  
(6 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose 
6 ml 
 (60 mg) 
9 ml 
 (90 mg) 
12 ml  
(120 mg) 
15 ml 
 (150 mg) 
18 ml  
(180 mg) 
21 ml 
 (210 mg) 
Table 4: Monotherapy doses in the treatment of partial-onset seizures to be taken twice a day for 
children and adolescents weighing from 40 kg to less than 50 kg(1) 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
 (1 mg/kg) 
Starting dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
 (2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg  
(3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
 (4 mg/kg) 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
 (5 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight 
40 kg 
45 kg 
4 ml  
(40 mg) 
4.5 ml  
(45 mg) 
8 ml  
(80 mg) 
9 ml  
(90 mg) 
Volume administered 
12 ml  
(120 mg) 
13.5 ml  
(135 mg) 
16 ml  
(160 mg) 
18 ml  
(180 mg) 
(1) Dose in adolescents 50 kg or more is the same as in adults. 
recommended 
dose 
20 ml  
(200 mg) 
22.5 ml  
(225 mg) 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures from 4 years of age 
or in the treatment of partial-onset seizures from 2 years of age)  
The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1 mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually adjusted until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. Due to an increased clearance 
compared to adults, in children weighing from 10 kg to less than 20 kg, a maximum dose of up to 
6 mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In children weighing from 20 to under 30 kg, a 
maximum dose of 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is recommended and in children weighing 
from 30 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg twice a day (8 mg/kg/day) is recommended, 
although in open-label studies (see sections 4.8 and 5.2), a dose up to 6 mg/kg twice a day 
(12 mg/kg/day) has been used by a small number of children from this latter group. 
The tables below provide examples of volumes of solution for infusion per administration depending 
on prescribed dose and body weight. The precise volume of solution for infusion is to be calculated 
according to the exact body weight of the child. 
Table 5: Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice daily for children from 2 years of age 
weighing from 10 kg to less than 20 kg 
Week 
Prescribe
d dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
 (1 mg/kg) 
Starting dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg  
(2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
 (3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg  
(4 mg/kg) 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
 (5 mg/kg) 
Week 6 
0.6 ml/kg 
 (6 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose 
Weight 
10 kg 
15 kg 
Volume administered 
1 ml 
(10 mg) 
1.5 ml  
(15 mg) 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
4.5 ml  
(45 mg) 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
7.5 ml  
(75 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
9 ml 
(90 mg) 
Table 6: Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice daily for children and adolescents weighing 
20 kg to less than 30 kg 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg  
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
 (2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
 (3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg  
(4 mg/kg) 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
 (5 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended dose 
Weight 
20 kg 
25 kg 
Volume administered 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
2.5 ml 
(25 mg) 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
8 ml 
(80 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
12.5 ml 
(125 mg) 
Table 7: Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice daily for children and adolescents weighing 
30 kg to less than 50 kg 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg  
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
 (2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
 (3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg  
(4 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose  
Weight 
30 kg 
35 kg 
40 kg 
45 kg 
Volume administered 
3 ml (30 mg) 
3.5 ml (35 mg) 
4 ml (40 mg) 
4.5 ml (45 mg) 
6 ml (60 mg) 
7 ml (70 mg) 
8 ml (80 mg) 
9 ml (90 mg) 
9 ml (90 mg) 
10.5 ml (105 mg) 
12 ml (120 mg) 
13.5 ml (135 mg) 
12 ml (120 mg) 
14 ml (140 mg) 
16 ml (160 mg) 
18 ml (180 mg) 
Initiation of lacosamide treatment with a loading dose (initial monotherapy or conversion to 
monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of 
partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic 
seizures)  
In adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults, lacosamide treatment may also be 
initiated with a single loading dose of 200 mg, followed approximately 12 hours later by a 100 mg 
twice a day (200 mg/day) maintenance dose regimen. Subsequent dose adjustments should be 
performed according to individual response and tolerability as described above. A loading dose may 
be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid attainment of lacosamide 
steady state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It should be administered under 
medical supervision with consideration of the potential for increased incidence of serious cardiac 
arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 4.8). Administration of a loading 
dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status epilepticus.  
Discontinuation 
If lacosamide has to be discontinued, it is recommended that the dose is reduced gradually in weekly 
decrements of 4 mg/kg/day (for patients with a body weight less than 50 kg) or 200 mg/day (for 
patients with a body weight of 50 kg or more) for patients who have achieved a dose of lacosamide 
≥ 6 mg/kg/day or ≥ 300 mg/day, respectively. A slower taper in weekly decrements of 2 mg/kg/day or 
100 mg/day can be considered, if medically necessary.  
In patients who develop serious cardiac arrhythmia, clinical benefit/risk assessment should be 
performed and if needed lacosamide should be discontinued.  
Special populations  
Elderly (over 65 years of age)  
No dose reduction is necessary in elderly patients. Age associated decreased renal clearance with an 
increase in area under the curve (AUC) levels should be considered in elderly patients (see following 
paragraph ‘renal impairment’ and section 5.2). There is limited clinical data in the elderly patients with 
epilepsy, particularly at doses greater than 400 mg/day (see sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1).  
Renal impairment  
No dose adjustment is necessary in mildly and moderately renally impaired adult and paediatric 
patients (creatinine clearance (CLCR) > 30 ml/min). In paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and 
in adult patients with mild or moderate renal impairment a loading dose of 200 mg may be considered, 
but further dose titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution. In paediatric patients 
weighing 50 kg or more and in adult patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) or with 
end-stage renal disease, a maximum dose of 250 mg/day is recommended and the dose titration should 
be performed with caution. If a loading dose is indicated, an initial dose of 100 mg followed by a 
50 mg twice daily regimen for the first week should be used. In paediatric patients weighing less than 
50 kg with severe renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) and in those with end-stage renal disease, a 
reduction of 25% of the maximum dose is recommended. For all patients requiring haemodialysis a 
supplement of up to 50% of the divided daily dose directly after the end of haemodialysis is 
recommended. Treatment of patients with end-stage renal disease should be made with caution as 
there is little clinical experience and accumulation of a metabolite (with no known pharmacological 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activity).  
Hepatic impairment  
A maximum dose of 300 mg/day is recommended for paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and 
for adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.  
The dose titration in these patients should be performed with caution considering co-existing renal 
impairment. In adolescents and adults weighing 50 kg or more, a loading dose of 200 mg may be 
considered, but further dose titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution. Based on 
data in adults, in paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with mild to moderate hepatic 
impairment a reduction of 25% of the maximum dose should be applied. The pharmacokinetics of 
lacosamide has not been evaluated in severely hepatic impaired patients (see section 5.2). Lacosamide 
should be administered to adult and paediatric patients with severe hepatic impairment only when the 
expected therapeutic benefits are anticipated to outweigh the possible risks. The dose may need to be 
adjusted while carefully observing disease activity and potential side effects in the patient. 
Paediatric population  
Lacosamide is not recommended for use in children below the age of 4 years in the treatment of 
primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures and below the age of 2 years in the treatment of partial-onset 
seizures as there is limited data on safety and efficacy in these age groups. 
Loading dose 
Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in children. Use of a loading dose is not 
recommended in adolescents and children weighing less than 50 kg. 
Method of administration 
The solution for infusion is infused over a period of 15 to 60 minutes twice a day. An infusion 
duration of at least 30 minutes for administration > 200 mg per infusion (i.e. > 400 mg/day) is 
preferred. 
Lacosamide solution for infusion can be administered intravenously without further dilution or can be 
diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution   
for injection or lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Known second- or third-degree atrioventricular (AV) block. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with antiepileptic medicinal 
products in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled clinical studies of 
antiepileptic medicinal products has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and 
behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known and the available data do not exclude the 
possibility of an increased risk for lacosamide. 
Therefore, patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviours and appropriate 
treatment should be considered. Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek medical 
advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge (see section 4.8). 
Cardiac rhythm and conduction 
Dose-related prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide have been observed in clinical studies. 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
patients with known cardiac conduction problems or severe cardiac disease (e.g. myocardial 
ischaemia/infarction, heart failure, structural heart disease or cardiac sodium channelopathies) or 
patients treated with medicinal products affecting cardiac conduction, including antiarrhythmics and 
sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products (see section 4.5), as well as in elderly 
patients. 
In these patients it should be considered to perform an ECG before a lacosamide dose increase above 
400 mg/day and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state. 
In the placebo-controlled clinical studies of lacosamide in epilepsy patients, atrial fibrillation or flutter 
were not reported; however, both have been reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-
marketing  experience. 
In post-marketing experience, AV block (including second degree or higher AV block) has been 
reported. In patients with proarrhythmic conditions, ventricular tachyarrhythmia has been reported. In 
rare cases, these events have led to asystole, cardiac arrest and death in patients with underlying 
proarrhythmic conditions. 
Patients should be made aware of the symptoms of cardiac arrhythmia (e.g. slow, rapid or irregular 
pulse, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting). Patients should be counselled to 
seek immediate medical advice if these symptoms occur. 
Dizziness 
Treatment with lacosamide has been associated with dizziness which could increase the occurrence of 
accidental injury or falls. Therefore, patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are 
familiar with the potential effects of the medicine (see section 4.8). 
Potential for new onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures 
New onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures has been reported in both adult and paediatric patients 
with Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (PGTCS), in particular during titration. In patients 
with more than one seizure type, the observed benefit of control for one seizure type should be 
weighed against any observed worsening in another seizure type. 
Potential for electro-clinical worsening in specific paediatric epilepsy syndromes 
The safety and efficacy of lacosamide in paediatric patients with epilepsy syndromes in which focal 
and generalised seizures may coexist have not been determined. 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 59.8 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 3% of the WHO      recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be 
associated with PR prolongation (including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products) 
and in patients treated with antiarrhythmics. However, subgroup analysis in clinical studies did not 
identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of 
carbamazepine or lamotrigine. 
In vitro data 
Data generally suggests that lacosamide has a low interaction potential. In vitro studies indicate that 
the enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 are not inhibited by lacosamide at plasma 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations observed in clinical studies. An in vitro study indicated that lacosamide is not 
transported by P-glycoprotein in the intestine. In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of the O-desmethyl metabolite. 
In vivo data 
Lacosamide does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. 
Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of midazolam (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 
200 mg twice a day) but Cmax of midazolam was slightly increased (30%). Lacosamide did not affect 
the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosamide given 
300 mg twice a day). 
The CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (40 mg once daily) did not give rise to a clinically significant 
change in lacosamide exposure. Thus, moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic 
lacosamide exposure to a clinically relevant extent. 
Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. 
fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g. itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin), which may lead 
to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo but 
are possible based on in vitro data. 
Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin or St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may 
moderately reduce the systemic exposure of lacosamide. Therefore, starting or ending treatment with 
these enzyme inducers should be done with caution. 
Antiepileptic medicinal products 
In interaction studies lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of 
carbamazepine and valproic acid. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by 
carbamazepine and by valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic analyses in different age groups 
estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products known to be enzyme 
inducers (carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, in various doses) decreased the overall systemic 
exposure of lacosamide by 25% in adults and 17% in paediatric patients. 
Oral contraceptives 
In an interaction study there was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral 
contraceptives ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Progesterone concentrations were not affected 
when the medicinal products were co-administered. 
Others 
Interaction studies showed that lacosamide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There 
was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and metformin. 
Co-administration of warfarin with lacosamide does not result in a clinically relevant change in the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin. 
Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a 
pharmacodynamic effect cannot be excluded. 
Lacosamide has a low protein binding of less than 15%. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions with 
other medicinal products through competition for protein binding sites are considered unlikely. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
Physicians should discuss family planning and contraception with women of childbearing potential 
taking lacosamide (see Pregnancy).  
If a woman decides to become pregnant, the use of lacosamide should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Pregnancy 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk related to epilepsy and antiepileptic medicinal products in general 
For all antiepileptic medicinal products, it has been shown that in the offspring of treated women with 
epilepsy, the prevalence of malformations is two to three times greater than the rate of approximately 
3% in the general population. In the treated population, an increase in malformations has been noted 
with polytherapy, however, the extent to which the treatment and/or the illness is responsible has not 
been elucidated. 
Moreover, effective antiepileptic therapy must not be interrupted, since the aggravation of the illness is 
detrimental to both the mother and the foetus. 
Risk related to lacosamide 
There are no adequate data from the use of lacosamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals did not 
indicate any teratogenic effects in rats or rabbits, but embryotoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits 
at maternal toxic doses (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lacosamide should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if the benefit to the mother 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus). If women decide to become pregnant, the use of this 
product should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Breastfeeding 
Lacosamide is excreted in human breast milk. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. It is 
recommended that breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with lacosamide. 
Fertility 
No adverse reactions on male or female fertility or reproduction were observed in rats at doses 
producing plasma exposures (AUC) up to approximately 2 times the plasma AUC in humans at the 
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lacosamide has minor to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Lacosamide 
treatment has been associated with dizziness or blurred vision. 
Accordingly, patients should be advised not to drive or to operate other potentially hazardous 
machinery until they are familiar with the effects of lacosamide on their ability to perform such 
activities. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Based on the analysis of pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in adjunctive therapy in 1 308 
patients with partial-onset seizures, a total of 61.9% of patients randomised to lacosamide and     
35.2% of patients randomised to placebo reported at least 1 adverse reaction. The most frequently 
reported adverse reactions (≥ 10%) with lacosamide treatment were dizziness, headache, nausea and 
diplopia. They were usually mild to moderate in intensity. Some were dose-related and could be 
alleviated by reducing the dose. Incidence and severity of central nervous system (CNS) and 
gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions usually decreased over time. 
In all of these controlled studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 12.2% for 
patients randomised to lacosamide and 1.6% for patients randomised to placebo. The most common 
adverse reaction resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy was dizziness. 
Incidence of CNS adverse reactions such as dizziness may be higher after a loading dose. 
Based on the analysis of data from a non-inferiority monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide 
to carbamazepine controlled release (CR), the most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥ 10%) for 
lacosamide were headache and dizziness. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 10.6% 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for patients treated with lacosamide and 15.6% for patients treated with carbamazepine CR. 
The safety profile of lacosamide reported in a study conducted in patients aged 4 years and older with 
idiopathic generalised epilepsy with primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was consistent 
with the safety profile reported from the pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in partial-onset 
seizures. Additional adverse reactions reported in PGTCS patients were myoclonic epilepsy (2.5% in 
the lacosamide-group and 0% in the placebo-group) and ataxia (3.3% in the lacosamide-group and 0% 
in the placebo-group). The most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness and somnolence. 
The most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy were dizziness 
and suicidal ideation. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 9.1% in the lacosamide 
group and 4.1% in the placebo group. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below shows the frequencies of adverse reactions which have been reported in clinical 
studies and post-marketing experience. The frequencies are defined as follows: very common            
(≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to <  1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) and not known (frequency 
cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 8: Frequencies of adverse reactions which have been reported in clinical studies and post-
marketing experience 
System organ class  Very 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
common 
Agranulocytosis(1) 
Drug reaction 
with eosinophilia 
and systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS)(1,2) 
Convulsion 
Drug 
hypersensitivity(1) 
Aggression 
Agitation(1) 
Euphoric mood(1) 
Psychotic 
disorder(1) 
 Suicide attempt(1) 
Suicidal ideation 
Hallucination(1) 
Syncope(2) 
Coordination 
abnormal 
Dyskinesia 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Diplopia 
Depression 
Confusional 
state 
 Insomnia(1) 
Myoclonic 
seizures(3) 
Ataxia 
Balance disorder 
Memory 
Impairment 
Cognitive disorder 
Somnolence 
Tremor 
Nystagmus 
Hypoesthesia 
Dysarthria 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Paraesthesia 
Vision blurred 
Vertigo 
Tinnitus 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class  Very 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia(1) 
Atrioventricular  
block(1,2)
Bradycardia(1,2) 
Atrial fibrillation 
(1,2) 
Atrial flutter(1,2) 
Liver 
function 
test abnormal(2)  
Hepatic  enzyme 
increased 
(> 2x ULN)(1) 
Angioedema(1)  
Urticaria(1) 
Erythema(4) 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome(1) 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis(1) 
Cardiac disorders 
common 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Flatulence 
Dyspepsia 
Dry mouth 
Diarrhoea 
Pruritus  
Rash(1) 
Muscle spasms 
Gait disturbance 
Asthenia  
Fatigue 
Irritability 
Feeling drunk 
Injection site pain  
or discomfort(4) 
Irritation(4) 
Fall 
Skin laceration 
Contusion 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
(1) Adverse reactions reported in post marketing experience. 
(2) See Description of selected adverse reactions. 
(3) Reported in primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) studies. 
(4) Local adverse reactions associated with intravenous administration. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The use of lacosamide is associated with dose-related increase in the PR interval. Adverse reactions 
associated with PR interval prolongation (e.g. atrioventricular block, syncope, bradycardia) may occur.  
In adjunctive clinical studies in epilepsy patients the incidence rate of reported first-degree AV Block 
is uncommon, 0.7%, 0%, 0.5% and 0% for lacosamide 200 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg or placebo, 
respectively. No second- or higher degree AV Block was seen in these studies. However, cases with 
second- and third-degree AV Block associated with lacosamide treatment have been reported in post- 
marketing experience. In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR 
the extent of increase in PR interval was comparable between lacosamide and carbamazepine. 
The incidence rate for syncope reported in pooled adjunctive therapy clinical studies is uncommon and                
did not differ between lacosamide (n=944) treated epilepsy patients (0.1%) and placebo (n=364) 
treated epilepsy patients (0.3%). In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to 
carbamazepine CR, syncope was reported in 7/444 (1.6%) lacosamide patients and in 1/442 (0.2%) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carbamazepine CR patients. 
Atrial fibrillation or flutter were not reported in short term clinical studies; however, both have been              
reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-marketing experience. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed in placebo-controlled clinical studies with 
lacosamide in adult patients with partial-onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant 
antiepileptic medicinal                 products. Elevations of Alanine Transaminase ALT to ≥ 3x Upper Limit 
Normal ULN occurred in 0.7% (7/935) of lacosamide 10 mg/ml solution for infusion patients and 0% 
(0/356) of placebo patients. 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (also known as Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms, DRESS) have been reported in patients treated with some antiepileptic medicinal products. 
These reactions are variable in expression but typically present with fever and rash and can be 
associated with involvement of different organ systems. If multiorgan hypersensitivity reaction is 
suspected, lacosamide should be discontinued. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile of lacosamide in placebo-controlled (255 patients from 1 month to less than 4 years 
of age and 343 patients from 4 years to less than 17 years of age) and in open-label clinical studies 
(847 patients from 1 month to less than or equal to 18 years of age) in adjunctive therapy in paediatric 
patients with partial-onset seizures was consistent with the safety profile observed in adults. As data 
available in paediatric patients younger than 2 years of age is limited, lacosamide is not indicated in 
this age range.  
The additional adverse reactions observed in the paediatric population were pyrexia, nasopharyngitis, 
pharyngitis, decreased appetite, abnormal behaviour and lethargy. Somnolence was reported more 
frequently in the paediatric population (≥ 1/10) compared to the adult population (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10). 
Elderly population 
In the monotherapy study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, the types of adverse reactions 
related to lacosamide in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) appear to be similar to that observed in 
patients less than 65 years of age. However, a higher incidence (≥ 5% difference) of fall, diarrhoea and 
tremor has been reported in elderly patients compared to younger adult patients. The most frequent 
cardiac-related adverse reaction reported in elderly compared to the younger adult population was 
first-degree AV block. This was reported with lacosamide in 4.8% (3/62) in elderly patients versus 
1.6% (6/382) in younger adult patients. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events observed with 
lacosamide was 21.0% (13/62) in elderly patients versus 9.2% (35/382) in younger adult patients. 
These differences between elderly and younger adult patients were similar to those observed in the 
active comparator group. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Symptoms observed after an accidental or intentional overdose of lacosamide are primarily associated 
with CNS and gastrointestinal system. 
•  The types of adverse reactions experienced by patients exposed to doses above 400 mg up to 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800 mg were not clinically different from those of patients administered recommended doses 
of lacosamide. 
•  Reactions reported after an intake of more than 800 mg are dizziness, nausea, vomiting, 
seizures (generalised tonic-clonic seizures, status epilepticus). Cardiac conduction disorders, 
shock and coma have also been observed. Fatalities have been reported in patients following 
an intake of acute single overdose of several grams of lacosamide. 
Management 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide. Treatment of lacosamide overdose should 
include general supportive measures and may include haemodialysis if necessary (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX18  
Mechanism of action 
The active substance, lacosamide (R-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3 methoxypropionamide) is a      
functionalised amino acid. 
The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effect in humans remains to be 
fully elucidated. In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances 
slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable 
neuronal membranes. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Lacosamide protected against seizures in a broad range of animal models of partial and primary 
generalised seizures and delayed kindling development. 
In non-clinical experiments lacosamide in combination with levetiracetam, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate or gabapentin showed synergistic or additive anticonvulsant effects. 
Clinical efficacy and safety (partial-onset seizures) 
Adult population 
Monotherapy 
Efficacy of lacosamide as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, non- 
inferiority comparison to carbamazepine CR in 886 patients 16 years of age or older with newly or 
recently diagnosed epilepsy. The patients had to present with unprovoked partial-onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation. The patients were randomised to carbamazepine CR or 
lacosamide, provided as tablets, in a 1:1 ratio. The dose was based on dose-response and ranged from 
400 to 1,200 mg/day for carbamazepine CR and from 200 to 600 mg/day for lacosamide. The duration 
of the treatment was up to 121 weeks depending on the response. 
The estimated 6-month seizure freedom rates were 89.8% for lacosamide-treated patients and 91.1% 
for carbamazepine CR treated patients using the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis method. The adjusted         
absolute difference between treatments was -1.3% (95% CI: -5.5, 2.8). The Kaplan-Meier estimates of 
12-month seizure freedom rates were 77.8% for lacosamide-treated patients and 82.7% for 
carbamazepine CR treated patients. 
The 6-month seizure freedom rates in elderly patients of 65 and above (62 patients in lacosamide, 57 
patients in carbamazepine CR) were similar between both treatment groups. The rates were also similar 
to those observed in the overall population. In the elderly population, the maintenance lacosamide 
dose was 200 mg/day in 55 patients (88.7%), 400 mg/day in 6 patients (9.7%) and the dose was 
escalated to over 400 mg/day in 1 patient (1.6%). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conversion to monotherapy 
The efficacy and safety of lacosamide in conversion to monotherapy has been assessed in ahistorical- 
controlled, multicentre, double-blind, randomised study. In this study, 425 patients aged 16 to 70 years 
with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic medicinal           
products were randomised to be converted to lacosamide monotherapy (either 400 mg/day or 
300 mg/day in a 3:1 ratio). In treated patients who completed titration and started withdrawing 
antiepileptic medicinal products (284 and 99 respectively), monotherapy was maintained in 71.5% and 
70.7% of patients respectively for 57-105 days (median 71 days), over the targeted observation period 
of 70 days. 
Adjunctive therapy 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy at recommended doses (200 mg/day, 400 mg/day) 
was established in 3 multicenter, randomised, placebo-controlled clinical studies with a 12-week 
maintenance period. Lacosamide 600 mg/day was also shown to be effective in controlled adjunctive 
therapy studies, although the efficacy was similar to 400 mg/day and patients were less likely to 
tolerate this dose because of CNS- and gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions. Thus, the 600 mg/day 
dose is not recommended. The maximum recommended dose is 400 mg/day. These studies, involving 
1,308 patients with a history of an average of 23 years of partial-onset seizures, were designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of lacosamide when administered concomitantly with 1-3 antiepileptic 
medicinal products in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures with or without secondary 
generalisation. Overall, the proportion of subjects with a 50% reduction in seizure frequency was 23%, 
34%, and 40% for placebo, lacosamide 200 mg/day and lacosamide 400 mg/day. 
The pharmacokinetics and safety of a single loading dose of intravenous lacosamide were determined 
in a multicenter, open-label study designed to assess the safety and tolerability of rapid initiation of 
lacosamide using a single intravenous loading dose (including 200 mg) followed by twice daily oral 
dosing (equivalent to the intravenous dose) as adjunctive therapy in adult subjects 16 to 60 years of 
age with partial-onset seizures. 
Paediatric population 
Partial-onset seizures have a similar pathophysiology and clinical expression in children from 2 years 
of age and in adults. The efficacy of lacosamide in children aged 2 years and older has been 
extrapolated from data of adolescents and adults with partial-onset seizures, for whom a similar 
response was expected provided the paediatric dose adaptations are established (see section 4.2) and 
safety has been demonstrated (see section 4.8).  
The efficacy supported by the extrapolation principle stated above was confirmed by a double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-controlled clinical study. The study consisted of an 8-week baseline period 
followed by a 6-week titration period. Eligible patients on a stable dose regimen of 1 to ≤ 3 
antiepileptic medicinal products, who still experienced at least 2 partial-onset seizures during the 4 
weeks prior to screening with seizure-free phase no longer than 21 days in the 8-week period prior to 
entry into the baseline period, were randomised to receive either placebo (n=172) or lacosamide 
(n=171). 
Dosing was initiated at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in 
subjects weighing 50 kg or more in 2 divided doses. During the titration period, lacosamide doses 
were adjusted in 1or 2 mg/kg/day increments in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 50 or 100 mg/day 
in subjects weighing 50 kg or more at weekly intervals to achieve the target maintenance period dose 
range.  
Subjects must have achieved the minimum target dose for their body weight category for the final 
3days of the titration period to be eligible for entry into the 10-week maintenance period. Subjects 
were to remain on stable lacosamide dose throughout the maintenance period or were withdrawn and 
entered in the blinded taper period.  
Statistically significant (p=0.0003) and clinically relevant reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency 
per 28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was observed between the lacosamide and the 
placebo group. The percent reduction over placebo based on analysis of covariance was 31.72% (95 % 
CI: 16.342,44.277).  
Overall, the proportion of subjects with at least a 50% reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency per 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was 52.9% in the lacosamide group compared with 
33.3% in the placebo group.  
The quality of life assessed by the Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory indicated that subjects in both 
lacosamide and placebo groups had a similar and stable health-related quality of life during the entire 
treatment period.  
Clinical efficacy and safety (primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures) 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years of age and older with idiopathic 
generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was established 
in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical study. 
The study consisted of a 12-week historical baseline period, a 4-week prospective baseline period and 
a 24-week treatment period (which included a 6-week titration period and an 18-week maintenance 
period). Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptic medicinal products experiencing at 
least 3 documented PGTCS during the 16-week combined baseline period were randomized 1 to 1 to 
receive lacosamide or placebo (patients in the full analysis set: lacosamide n=118, placebo n=121; of 
them 8 patients in the ≥ 4 to < 12 years age group and 16 patients in the ≥ 12 to < 18 years range were 
treated  with lacosamide and 9 and 16 patients, respectively with placebo). 
Patients were titrated up to the target maintenance period dose of 12 mg/kg/day in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg, 8 mg/kg/day in patients weighing from 30 to less than 50 kg or 400 mg/day in patients 
weighing 50 kg or more. 
Table 9: The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in a 24-week double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical study 
Efficacy variable 
Parameter 
Time to second PGTCS 
Median (days) 
95% CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
Hazard Ratio 
95% CI 
p-value 
Seizure freedom 
Placebo 
N=121 
77.0 
49.0, 128.0 
Lacosamide 
N=118 
- 
- 
0.540 
0.377, 0.774 
< 0.001 
Stratified Kaplan-Meier estimate (%) 
95% CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
95% CI 
p-value 
17.2 
10.4, 24.0 
31.3 
22.8, 39.9 
14.1 
                                  3.2, 25.1  
0.011 
Note: For the lacosamide group, the median time to second PGTCS could not be estimated by Kaplan- 
Meier methods because ˃ 50% of patients did not experience a second PGTCS by Day 166. 
The findings in the paediatric subgroup were consistent with the results of the overall population for 
the primary, secondary and other efficacy endpoints. 
5.2  
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
After intravenous administration, Cmax is reached at the end of infusion. The plasma concentration 
increases proportionally with dose after oral (100-800 mg) and intravenous (50-300 mg) 
administration. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 0.6 L/kg. Lacosamide is less than 15% bound to plasma 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proteins 
Biotransformation 
95% of the dose is excreted in the urine as lacosamide and metabolites. The metabolism of lacosamide 
has not been completely characterised. 
The major compounds excreted in urine are unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40% of the dose) 
and its O-desmethyl metabolite less than 30%. 
A polar fraction proposed to be serine derivatives accounted for approximately 20% in urine, but was 
detected only in small amounts (0-2%) in human plasma of some subjects. Small amounts (0.5-2%) of 
additional metabolites were found in the urine. 
In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of 
the O-desmethyl metabolite but the main contributing isoenzyme has not been confirmed in vivo. No 
clinically relevant difference in lacosamide exposure was observed comparing its pharmacokinetics in 
extensive metabolisers (EMs, with a functional CYP2C19) and poor metabolisers (PMs, lacking a 
functional CYP2C19). Furthermore, an interaction study with omeprazole (CYP2C19-inhibitor) 
demonstrated no clinically relevant changes in lacosamide plasma concentrations indicating that the 
importance of this pathway is minor. The plasma concentration of O-desmethyl-lacosamide is 
approximately 15% of the concentration of lacosamide in plasma. This major metabolite has no known 
pharmacological activity. 
Elimination 
Lacosamide is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and 
biotransformation. After oral and intravenous administration of radiolabeled lacosamide, 
approximately 95% of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0.5% in the 
faeces. The elimination half-life of lacosamide is approximately 13 hours. The pharmacokinetics is 
dose-proportional and constant over time, with low intra- and inter-subject variability. Following twice 
daily dosing, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after a 3-day period. The plasma 
concentration increases with an accumulation factor of approximately 2. 
A single loading dose of 200 mg approximates steady-state concentrations comparable to 100 mg 
twice daily oral administration. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Gender 
Clinical studies indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide. 
Renal impairment 
The AUC of lacosamide was increased by approximately 30% in mildly and moderately and 60% in 
severely renal impaired patients and patients with end-stage renal disease requiring haemodialysis 
compared to healthy subjects, whereas Cmax was unaffected. 
Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by haemodialysis. Following a 4-hour haemodialysis 
treatment, AUC of lacosamide is reduced by approximately 50%. Therefore, dose supplementation 
following haemodialysis is recommended (see section 4.2). The exposure of the O-desmethyl 
metabolite was several-fold increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. In 
absence of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, the levels were increased and 
continuously rising during the 24-hour sampling. It is unknown whether the increased metabolite 
exposure in end-stage renal disease subjects could give rise to adverse reactions but no 
pharmacological activity of the metabolite has been identified. 
Hepatic impairment 
Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) showed higher plasma concentrations of 
lacosamide (approximately 50% higher AUCnorm). The higher exposure was partly due to a reduced 
renal function in the studied subjects. The decrease in non-renal clearance in the patients of the study 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was estimated to give a 20% increase in the AUC of lacosamide. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide 
has not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
In a study in elderly men and women including 4 patients > 75 years of age, AUC was about 30 and 
50% increased compared to young men, respectively. This is partly related to lower body weight. The 
body weight normalized difference is 26 and 23%, respectively. An increased variability in exposure 
was also observed. The renal clearance of lacosamide was only slightly reduced in elderly subjects in 
this study. 
A general dose reduction is not considered to be necessary unless indicated due to reduced renal 
function (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
The paediatric pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in six placebo-controlled randomised clinical 
studies and five open-label studies in 1 655 adult and paediatric patients with epilepsy aged 1 month to 
17 years. Three of these studies were performed in adults, 7 in paediatric patients, and 1 in a mixed 
population. The administered lacosamide doses ranged from 2 to 17.8 mg/kg/day in twice daily intake, 
not to exceed 600 mg/day.  
The typical plasma clearance was estimated to be 0.46 L/h, 0.81 L/h, 1.03 L/h and 1.34 L/h for 
paediatric patients weighing 10 kg, 20 kg, 30 kg and 50 kg respectively. In comparison, plasma 
clearance was estimated at 1.74 L/h in adults (70 kg body weight). 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse pharmacokinetic samples from PGTCS study 
showed a similar exposure in patients with PGTCS and in patients with partial-onset seizures. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicity studies, the plasma concentrations of lacosamide obtained were similar or only 
marginally higher than those observed in patients, which leaves low or non-existing margins to human 
exposure. 
A safety pharmacology study with intravenous administration of lacosamide in anesthetised dogs 
showed transient increases in PR interval and QRS complex duration and decreases in blood pressure 
most likely due to a cardiodepressant action. These transient changes started in the same concentration 
range as after maximum recommended clinical dosing. In anesthetised dogs and Cynomolgus 
monkeys, at intravenous doses of 15-60 mg/kg, slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, 
atrioventricular block and atrioventricular dissociation were seen. 
In the repeated dose toxicity studies, mild reversible liver changes were observed in rats starting at 
about 3 times the clinical exposure. These changes included an increased organ weight, hypertrophy of                 
hepatocytes, increases in serum concentrations of liver enzymes and increases in total cholesterol and 
triglycerides. Apart from the hypertrophy of hepatocytes, no other histopathologic changes were 
observed. 
In reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rodents and rabbits, no teratogenic effects but an 
increase in numbers of stillborn pups and pup deaths in the peripartum period, and slightly reduced 
live litter sizes and pup body weights were observed at maternal toxic doses in rats corresponding to 
systemic exposure levels similar to the expected clinical exposure. Since higher exposure levels could 
not be tested in animals due to maternal toxicity, data are insufficient to fully characterise the 
embryofetotoxic and teratogenic potential of lacosamide. 
Studies in rats revealed that lacosamide and/or its metabolites readily crossed the placental barrier. In 
juvenile rats and dogs, the types of toxicity do not differ qualitatively from those observed in adult 
animals. In juvenile rats, a reduced body weight was observed at systemic exposure levels similar to 
the expected clinical exposure. In juvenile dogs, transient and dose-related CNS clinical signs started to 
be observed at systemic exposure levels below the expected clinical exposure. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Water for injections 
 Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C 
and at 2-8°C for product mixed with the diluents mentioned in 6.6 and stored in Poly Vinyl Chloride 
(PVC) bags. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage condition.  
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Colourless type I glass vial with a bromobutyl rubber closure with aluminium orange flip off seals.  
Packs of 1x20 ml, 5x20 ml. 
Not all pack-sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Product with particulate matter or discolouration should not be used. 
This medicinal product is for single use only, any unused solution should be discarded. Any unused 
medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion was found to be physically compatible and chemically stable 
when mixed with the following diluents for at least 24 hours and stored in PVC bags at temperatures 
up to 25°C. 
Diluents: 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection  
Glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection 
Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Pátriárka utca 14. 
2000, Szentendre 
Hungary 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1732/001 
EU/1/23/1732/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 31 May 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed  information  on  this  medicine  is  available  on  the  European  Medicines  Agency  web  site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II  
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY  
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Pharma Pack Hungary Kft. 
Vasút u. 13, Budaörs 
H-2040 Hungary 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
C. 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D. 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Adroiq 10 mg/ml solution for infusion  
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Eachml of solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide.  
1 vial of 20 ml contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
5 vials x 20 ml solution for infusion  
1 vial x 20 ml solution for infusion  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Intravenous use  
For single use only 
6.  SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
This medicine does not require any special storage condition. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Pátriárka utca 14.  
2000, Szentendre 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1732/001 
EU/1/23/1732/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
Vial 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Adroiq 10 mg/ml solution for infusion  
lacosamide  
2.  STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of solution contains 10 mg lacosamide.  
1 vial of 20 ml contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3.  LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4.  PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for infusion 
200 mg/20 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
IV use 
6.  SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHLIDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine does not require any special storage condition. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Pátriárka utca 14.  
2000, Szentendre 
Hungary 
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1732/001 
EU/1/23/1732/002 
13. BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lacosamide Adroiq 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
lacosamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Lacosamide Adroiq is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Lacosamide Adroiq  
How to use Lacosamide Adroiq  
Possible side effects 
How to store Lacosamide Adroiq  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lacosamide Adroiq is and what it is used for 
What Lacosamide Adroiq is 
Lacosamide Adroiq contains lacosamide. This belongs to a group of medicines called  
“antiepileptic medicines”. These medicines are used to treat epilepsy. 
• 
You have been given this medicine to lower the number of fits (seizures) you have. 
What Lacosamide Adroiq is used for 
• 
Lacosamide Adroiq is used: 
 
 
on its own and in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents 
and children aged 2 years and older to treat a certain type of epilepsy characterised by 
the occurrence of partial-onset seizure with or without secondary generalisation. In this 
type of epilepsy, fits first affect only one side of your brain. However, these may then 
spread to larger areas on both sides of your brain; 
in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents and children aged 
4 years and older to treat primary generalised tonic- clonic seizures (major fits, 
including loss of consciousness) in patients with idiopathic  generalised epilepsy (the 
type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic cause). 
2.  What you need to know before you use Lacosamide Adroiq 
Do not use Lacosamide Adroiq  
• 
• 
if you are allergic to lacosamide, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you are not sure whether you are allergic, please discuss with your doctor. 
if you have a certain type of heart beat problem called second- or third-degree AV block. 
Do not use Lacosamide Adroiq if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before using this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor before using Lacosamide Adroiq if: 
• 
you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself. A small number of people being treated with 
antiepileptic medicines such as lacosamide have had thoughts of harming or killing 
themselves. If you have any of these thoughts at any time, tell your doctor straight away. 
you have a heart problem that affects the beat of your heart and you often have a particularly 
slow, fast or irregular heart beat (such as AV block, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter). 
you have severe heart disease such as heart failure or have had a heart attack. 
you are often dizzy or fall over. Lacosamide Adroiq may make you dizzy - this could increase 
the risk of accidental injury or a fall. This means that you should take care until you are used 
to the effects of this medicine. 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Adroiq. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Adroiq, talk to your doctor if you are experiencing a new type of seizure 
or worsening of existing seizures. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Adroiq and you are experiencing symptoms of abnormal heartbeat (such 
as slow, rapid or irregular heartbeat, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting), 
seek medical advice immediately (see section 4). 
Children 
Lacosamide Adroiq is not recommended for children aged under 2 years with epilepsy characterised 
by the occurrence of partial-onset seizure and not recommended for children aged under 4 years with 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures. This is because we do not yet know whether it will work 
and whether it is safe for children in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lacosamide Adroiq  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines that affect     
your heart - this is because Lacosamide Adroiq can also affect your heart: 
• 
• 
medicines to treat heart problems; 
medicines which can increase the “PR interval” on a scan of the heart (ECG or 
electrocardiogram) such as medicines for epilepsy or pain called carbamazepine, lamotrigine 
or pregabalin;  
medicines used to treat certain types of irregular heart beat or heart failure. 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Adroiq.  
Also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines - this is because 
they may increase or decrease the effect of Lacosamide Adroiq on your body: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Adroiq. 
Lacosamide Adroiq with alcohol 
medicines for fungal infections such as fluconazole, itraconazole or ketoconazole; 
a medicine for HIV such as ritonavir; 
medicines for bacterial infections such as clarithromycin or rifampicin; 
a herbal medicine used to treat mild anxiety and depression called St. John’s wort. 
As a safety precaution do not use Lacosamide Adroiq with alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Fertile women should discuss the use of contraceptives with the doctor. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask               
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is not recommended to use Lacosamide Adroiq if you are pregnant, as the effects of Lacosamide 
Adroiq on pregnancy and the unborn baby are not known.  
It is not recommended to breast-feed your baby while taking Lacosamide Adroiq, as Lacosamide 
passes into breast milk. 
Seek advice immediately from your doctor if you get pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. 
They will help you decide if you should use Lacosamide Adroiq or not. 
Do not stop treatment without talking to your doctor first as this could increase your fits (seizures). A 
worsening of your disease can also harm your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, cycle or use any tools or machines until you know how this medicine affects you. This 
is because Lacosamide Adroiq may make you feel dizzy or cause blurred vision. 
Lacosamide Adroiq contains sodium 
This medicine contains 59.8 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 3% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3.  How to use Lacosamide Adroiq  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your 
doctor             or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Using Lacosamide Adroiq  
• 
• 
Lacosamide Adroiq can be started by: 
-  by being given as an intravenous infusion (sometimes called an “IV infusion”) where the 
medicine is given into your vein by a doctor or nurse. It is given over 15 to 60 minutes. 
Your doctor will decide for how many days you will have infusions. There is experience with 
twice daily infusions of lacosamide for up to 5 days. For longer term treatment lacosamide 
tablets and syrup are available. 
When you change from the infusion to taking the medicine by mouth (or the other way around) the 
total amount you take each day and how often you take it stays the same. 
• 
• 
Use lacosamide twice each day (approximately 12 hours apart). 
Try to use it at about the same time each day. 
How much to use 
Listed below are the normal recommended doses of Lacosamide Adroiq for different age groups and 
weights. Your doctor may prescribe a different dose if you have problems with your kidneys or with 
your liver. 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more and adults 
When you use Lacosamide Adroiq on its own 
-  The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Adroiq is 50 mg twice a day. 
-  The treatment with Lacosamide Adroiq may also start with a dose of 100 mg of 
Lacosamide Adroiq twice a day. 
-  Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be 
until you reach a maintenance dose of between 100 mg and 300 mg twice a day. 
When you use Lacosamide Adroiq with other antiepileptic medicines  
-  The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Adroiq is 50 mg twice a day. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be 
until you reach a maintenance dose of between 100 mg and 200 mg twice a day. 
If you weigh 50 kg or more, your doctor may decide to start Lacosamide Adroiq 
treatment with a single “loading” dose of 200 mg. You would then start your ongoing 
maintenance dose 12 hours later. 
- 
In the treatment of partial-onset seizure: Observe that Lacosamide Adroiq is not 
Children and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
- 
recommended for children under 2 years of age.  
- 
Adroiq is not recommended for children under 4 years of age. 
In the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures: Observe that Lacosamide 
When you use Lacosamide Adroiq on its own 
-  Your doctor will decide the dose of Lacosamide Adroiq based on your body weight. 
-  The usual starting dose is 1 mg (0.1 ml), for each kilogram (kg) of body weight, twice 
a day. 
-  Your doctor may then increase your twice daily dose every week by 1 mg (0.1 ml), for 
each kg of your body weight. This will be until you reach a maintenance dose.  
-  Dosing charts including the maximum recommended dose are provided below. This is 
for information only. Your doctor will work out the right dose for you. 
To be used twice daily for children from 2 years of age weighing from 10 kg to less than 40 kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Weight  Week 1 
Starting 
dose 
0.1 ml/kg 
10 kg 
15 kg 
20 kg 
25 kg 
30 kg 
35 kg 
1 ml 
1.5 ml 
2 ml 
2.5 ml 
3 ml 
3.5 ml 
2 ml 
3 ml 
4 ml 
5 ml 
6 ml 
7 ml 
3 ml 
4.5 ml 
6 ml 
7.5 ml 
9 ml 
10.5 ml 
4 ml 
6 ml 
8 ml 
10 ml 
12 ml 
14 ml 
5 ml 
7.5 ml 
10 ml 
12.5 ml 
15 ml 
17.5 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 40 kg to less than 50 kg: 
Weight 
Week 1 Starting 
dose: 0.1 ml/kg 
Week 2  
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
40 kg 
45 kg 
4 ml 
4.5 ml 
8 ml 
9 ml 
12 ml 
13.5 ml 
16 ml 
18 ml 
When you use Lacosamide Adroiq with other antiepileptic medicines 
Week 5 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose: 0.5 ml/kg 
20 ml 
22.5 ml 
-  Your doctor will decide the dose of Lacosamide Adroiq based on your body weight. 
-  For children and adolescents weighing from 10 kg to less than 50 kg, the usual 
starting dose is 1 mg (0.1 ml), for each kilogram (kg) of body weight, twice a day. 
-  Your doctor may then increase your twice daily dose every week by 1 mg (0.1 ml) for 
each kg of body weight. This will be until you reach a maintenance dose. 
-  Dosing charts including the maximum recommended dose are provided below. This is 
for information only. Your doctor will work out the right dose for you. 
To be used twice daily for children from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 20 kg 
Weight 
Week 1 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4  
0.4 ml/kg 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
Week 6 
Maximum 
recommend
ed dose: 
0.6 ml/kg 
33 
Week 6 
Maximum 
recommend
ed dose: 
0.6 ml/kg 
6 ml 
9 ml 
12 ml 
15 ml 
18 ml 
21 ml 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 4 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose: 0.4 ml/kg 
12 ml 
14 ml 
16 ml 
18 ml 
10 kg 
15 kg 
1 ml 
1.5 ml 
2 ml 
3 ml 
3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4 ml 
6 ml 
5 ml 
7.5 ml 
6 ml 
9 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 20 kg to less than 30 kg: 
Weight 
Week 1 
Starting 
dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
20 kg 
25 kg 
2 ml 
2.5 ml 
4 ml 
5 ml 
6 ml 
7.5 ml 
8 ml 
10 ml 
Week 5 
Maximum 
recommend
ed dose:  
0.5 ml/kg 
10 ml 
12.5 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 30 kg to less than 50 kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Weight 
Week 1 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
30 kg 
35 kg 
40 kg 
45 kg 
3 ml 
3.5 ml 
4 ml 
4.5 ml 
6 ml 
7 ml 
8 ml 
9 ml 
9 ml 
10.5 ml 
12 ml 
13.5 ml 
If you stop using Lacosamide Adroiq  
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment with Lacosamide Adroiq, they will decrease the dose 
step by step. This is to prevent your epilepsy from coming back again or becoming worse. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Nervous system side effects such as dizziness may be higher after a single “loading” dose.  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you get any of the following: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
Headache; 
Feeling dizzy or sick (nausea); 
Double vision (diplopia). 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
Short jerks of a muscle or group of muscles (myoclonic seizures); 
Difficulties in coordinating your movements or walking; 
Problems in keeping your balance, shaking (tremor), tingling (paresthesia) or muscle spasms, 
falling easily and getting bruises; 
Troubles with your memory, thinking or finding words, confusion; 
Rapid and uncontrollable movements of the eyes (nystagmus), blurred vision; 
A spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling drunk; 
Being sick (vomiting), dry mouth, constipation, indigestion, excessive gas in the stomach or 
bowel, diarrhoea; 
Decreased feeling or sensitivity, difficulty in articulating words, disturbance in attention; 
Noise in the ear such as buzzing, ringing or whistling; 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Irritability, trouble sleeping, depression; 
Sleepiness, tiredness or weakness (asthenia); 
Itching, rash. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Slow heart rate, palpitations, irregular pulse or other changes in the electrical activity of your 
heart (conduction disorder); 
Exaggerated feeling of wellbeing, seeing and/or hearing things which are not there; 
Allergic reaction to medicine intake, hives; 
Blood tests may show abnormal liver function, liver injury; 
Thoughts of harming or killing yourself or attempting suicide: tell your doctor straight away; 
Feeling angry or agitated; 
Abnormal thinking or losing touch with reality; 
Serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face, throat, hands, feet, ankles, or lower 
legs; 
Fainting; 
Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesia). 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from available data 
• 
• 
Abnormal rapid heartbeat (ventricular tachyarrhythmia); 
A sore throat, high temperature and getting more infections than usual. Blood tests may show 
a severe decrease in a specific class of white blood cells (agranulocytosis); 
A serious skin reaction which may include a high temperature and other flu-like symptoms, a 
rash on the face, extended rash, swollen glands (enlarged lymph nodes). 
Blood tests may show increased levels of liver enzymes and a type of white blood cell 
(eosinophilia); 
A widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes 
and genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in 
more than 30% of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis); 
Convulsion. 
• 
• 
• 
Additional side effects when given as an intravenous infusion 
There may be local side effects. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
Injection site pain or discomfort or irritation. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
Injection site redness. 
Additional side effects in children 
The additional side effects in children were fever (pyrexia), runny nose (nasopharyngitis), sore throat 
(pharyngitis), eating less than usual (decreased appetite), changes in behaviour, not acting like 
themselves (abnormal behavior) and lacking in energy (lethargy). Feeling sleepy (somnolence) is a 
very common side effect in children and may affect more than 1 in 10 children.  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of  this medicine. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Lacosamide Adroiq  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage condition. 
Each vial of Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion must be used only once (single use). Any 
unused solution           should be discarded. 
Only clear solution free from particles and discoloration should be used. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Lacosamide Adroiq contains 
• 
• 
• 
The active substance is lacosamide. 
1 ml Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
1 vial contains 20 ml Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion equivalent to 200 mg 
lacosamide. 
The other ingredients are: sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
See Section 2 “This medicine contains 59.8 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table 
salt) in each vial. 
What Lacosamide Adroiq looks like and contents of the pack 
Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion is a clear, colourless solution. 
• 
Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion is available in packages of 1 or 5 vials.  
Each vial contains 20 ml.  
 Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Pátriárka utca 14. 
2000, Szentendre 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Pharma Pack Hungary Kft  
Vasút u. 13, Budaörs  
H-2040 Hungary 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Lietuva 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tél/Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
България 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Teл.: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Česká republika 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Danmark 
Mashal Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 71 86 37 68 
faiza.siddiqui@mashal-healthcare.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tél/Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Magyarország 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel.: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Malta 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Nederland 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Eesti 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Ελλάδα 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Τηλ: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
España 
Zentiva Spain S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 91 111 58 93 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219 
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Ireland 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Ísland 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Sími: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Norge 
Mashal Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 71 86 37 68 
faiza.siddiqui@mashal-healthcare.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel.: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Portugal 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
România 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Slovenija 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Slovenská republika 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Τηλ: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Latvija 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Suomi/Finland 
Mashal Healthcare A/S 
Puh/Tel: +45 71 86 37 68 
faiza.siddiqui@mashal-healthcare.com 
Sverige 
Mashal Healthcare A/S 
Tel: +45 71 86 37 68 
faiza.siddiqui@mashal-healthcare.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Tel: +41 41 740 1120 
pv@extrovis.com 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only. 
Each vial of Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion must be used only once (single use). Any 
unused solution should be discarded (see section 3). 
Lacosamide Adroiq solution for infusion can be administered without further dilution or may be 
diluted with the following solutions: sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%), glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) or 
lactated Ringer’s solution. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and 
validated aseptic conditions. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at temperatures up to 
25°C and at 2-8°C for product mixed with these diluents and stored in Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) 
bags. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
