ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
Excipient(s) with known effect: 
50 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.105 mg of lecithin (soya) 
100 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.210 mg of lecithin (soya) 
150 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.315 mg of lecithin (soya) 
200 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.420 mg of lecithin (soya) 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Pink, oval, approximately 10.3 x 4.8 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “50” on other 
side. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Dark yellow, oval, approximately 13.0 x 6.0 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “100” on 
other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Salmon, oval, approximately 15.0 x 6.9 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “150” on 
other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blue, oval, approximately 16.4 x 7.6 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “200” on other 
side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults, adolescents and children 
from 4 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate formulation and strength according to weight and 
dose. 
The recommended posology for adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age is summarised in 
the following table. 
Lacosamide must be taken twice a day, approximately 12 hours apart. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately, and then to take 
the next dose of lacosamide at the regularly scheduled time. If the patient notices the missed dose within 
6 hours of the next one, he/she should be instructed to wait to take the next dose of lacosamide at the 
regularly scheduled time. Patients should not take a double dose 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
Starting dose 
Monotherapy: 50 mg twice a day 
(100 mg/day) or 100 mg twice a day 
(200 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: 50 mg twice a 
day (100 mg/day) 
Titration 
(incremental 
steps) 
50 mg twice a 
day 
(100 mg/day) 
at weekly 
intervals 
Maximum recommended dose 
Monotherapy: up to 300 mg twice a day 
(600 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: up to 200 mg twice 
a day (400 mg/day) 
Alternate initial dosage* (If applicable): 
200 mg single loading dose followed by 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) 
*A loading dose may be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid attainment of lacosamide steady 
state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It should be administered under medical supervision with consideration 
of the potential for increased incidence of serious cardiac arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 4.8). 
Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status epilepticus. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children from 2 years of age and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg* 
Starting dose 
Monotherapy and Adjunctive 
therapy: 
1 mg/kg twice a day 
(2 mg/kg/day) 
Titration 
(incremental 
steps) 
1 mg/kg twice 
a day 
(2 mg/kg/day) 
at weekly 
intervals 
Maximum recommended dose 
Monotherapy: 
- 
up to 6 mg/kg twice a day 
(12 mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 10 kg to 
< 40 kg 
up to 5 mg/kg twice a day 
(10 mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 40 kg to 
< 50 kg 
Adjunctive therapy: 
- 
up to 6 mg/kg twice a day 
(12 mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 10 kg to 
< 20 kg 
up to 5 mg/kg twice a day 
(10 mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 20 kg to 
< 30 kg 
up to 4 mg/kg twice a day (8 mg/kg/day) 
in patients ≥ 30 kg to < 50 kg 
- 
- 
- 
* Children less than 50 kg should preferably start the treatment with Lacosamide 10 mg/ml syrup. 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day)  which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day)  after one week. 
Lacosamide can also be initiated at the dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day)  based on the 
physician's assessment of required seizure reduction versus potential side effects. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day).  
In patients having reached a dose greater than 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) and who need an 
additional antiepileptic medicinal product, the posology that is recommended for adjunctive therapy 
below should be followed. 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) after one week.  
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 200 mg 
twice a day (400 mg/day). 
Children from 2 years of age and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
The dose is determined based on body weight. It is therefore recommended to initiate treatment with 
the syrup and switch to tablets, if desired.  
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually increased until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. In children weighing from 10 kg to 
less than 40 kg, a maximum dose of up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In 
children weighing from 40 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 5mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is 
recommended.  
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures from 4 years of age 
or in the treatment of partial-onset seizures from 2 years of age) 
The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1 mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually adjusted until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. Due to an increased clearance 
compared to adults, in children weighing from 10 kg to less than 20 kg, a maximum dose of up to 
6 mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In children weighing from 20 to under 30 kg, a 
maximum dose of 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is recommended and in children weighing 
from 30 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg twice a day (8 mg/kg/day) is recommended, 
although in open-label studies (see sections 4.8 and 5.2), a dose up to 6 mg/kg twice a day 
(12 mg/kg/day) has been used by a small number of children from this latter group. 
Initiation of lacosamide treatment with a loading dose (initial monotherapy or conversion to 
monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of 
partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic 
seizures) 
In adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults, lacosamide treatment may also be 
initiated with a single loading dose of 200 mg, followed approximately 12 hours later by a 100 mg 
twice a day (200 mg/day) maintenance dose regimen. Subsequent dose adjustments should be 
performed according to individual response and tolerability as described above. A loading dose may 
be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid attainment of lacosamide 
steady state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It should be administered under 
medical supervision with consideration of the potential for increased incidence of serious cardiac 
arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 4.8). Administration of a loading 
dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status epilepticus. 
Discontinuation 
If lacosamide has to be discontinued, it is recommended that the dose is reduced gradually in weekly 
decrements of 4 mg/kg/day (for patients with a body weight less than 50 kg) or 200 mg/day (for 
patients with a body weight of 50 kg or more) for patients who have achieved a dose of lacosamide 
≥ 6 mg/kg/day or ≥ 300 mg/day, respectively. A slower taper in weekly decrements of 2 mg/kg/day or 
100 mg/day can be considered, if medically necessaryIn patients who develop serious cardiac 
arrhythmia, clinical benefit/risk assessment should be performed and if needed lacosamide should be 
discontinued. 
Special populations 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
No dose reduction is necessary in elderly patients. Age associated decreased renal clearance with an 
increase in AUC levels should be considered in elderly patients (see following paragraph ‘renal 
impairment’ and section 5.2). There is limited clinical data in the elderly patients with epilepsy, 
particularly at doses greater than 400 mg/day (see sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1). 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in mildly and moderately renally impaired adult and paediatric 
patients (CLCR > 30 ml/min). In paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and in adult patients with 
mild or moderate renal impairment a loading dose of 200 mg may be considered, but further dose 
titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution.  
In paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and in adult patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR 
≤30 ml/min) or with end-stage renal disease, a maximum dose of 250 mg/day is recommended and the 
dose titration should be performed with caution. If a loading dose is indicated, an initial dose of 100 
mg followed by a 50 mg twice daily regimen for the first week should be used. In paediatric patients 
weighing less than 50 kg with severe renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) and in those with end-
stage renal disease, a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dose is recommended. For all patients 
requiring haemodialysis a supplement of up to 50 % of the divided daily dose directly after the end of 
haemodialysis is recommended. Treatment of patients with end-stage renal disease should be made 
with caution as there is little clinical experience and accumulation of a metabolite (with no known 
pharmacological activity). 
Hepatic impairment 
A maximum dose of 300 mg/day is recommended for paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and 
for adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.  
The dose titration in these patients should be performed with caution considering co-existing renal 
impairment. In adolescents and adults weighing 50 kg or more, a loading dose of 200 mg may be 
considered, but further dose titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution. Based on 
data in adults, in paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with mild to moderate hepatic 
impairment, a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dose should be applied. The pharmacokinetics of 
lacosamide has not been evaluated in severely hepatic impaired patients (see section 5.2). Lacosamide 
should be administered to adult and paediatric patients with severe hepatic impairment only when the 
expected therapeutic benefits are anticipated to outweigh the possible risks. The dose may need to be 
adjusted while carefully observing disease activity and potential side effects in the patient. 
Paediatric population 
Lacosamide is not recommended for use in children below the age of 4 years in the treatment 
of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures and below the age of 2 years in the treatment of 
partial-onset seizures as there is limited data on safety and efficacy in these age groups, 
respectively. 
 Loading dose 
Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in children. Use of a loading dose is not 
recommended in adolescents and children weighing less than 50 kg. 
Method of administration 
Lacosamide film-coated tablets are for oral use. Lacosamide may be taken with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, soya lecithin or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Known second- or third-degree atrioventricular (AV) block.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with antiepileptic medicinal 
products in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo- controlled clinical studies of 
antiepileptic medicinal products has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known and the available data do not exclude the 
possibility of an increased risk for lacosamide. 
Therefore, patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviours and appropriate 
treatment should be considered. Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek medical 
advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge (see section 4.8). 
Cardiac rhythm and conduction 
Dose-related prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide have been observed in clinical studies. 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as 
patients with known cardiac conduction problems or severe cardiac disease (e.g. myocardial 
ischaemia/infarction, heart failure, structural heart disease or cardiac sodium channelopathies) or 
patients treated with medicinal products affecting cardiac conduction, including antiarrhythmics and 
sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products (see section 4.5), as well as in elderly 
patients. 
In these patients it should be considered to perform an ECG before a lacosamide dose increase above 
400mg/day and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state. 
In the placebo-controlled clinical studies of lacosamide in epilepsy patients, atrial fibrillation or flutter 
were not reported; however, both have been reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-
marketing experience. 
In post-marketing experience, AV block (including second degree or higher AV block) has been 
reported. In patients with proarrhythmic conditions, ventricular tachyarrhythmia has been reported. In 
rare cases, these events have led to asystole, cardiac arrest and death in patients with underlying 
proarrhythmic conditions. 
Patients should be made aware of the symptoms of cardiac arrhythmia (e.g. slow, rapid or irregular 
pulse, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting). Patients should be counselled to 
seek immediate medical advice if these symptoms occur. 
Dizziness 
Treatment with lacosamide has been associated with dizziness which could increase the occurrence of 
accidental injury or falls. Therefore, patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are 
familiar with the potential effects of the medicine (see section 4.8). 
Potential for new onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures 
New onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures has been reported in both adult and paediatric patients 
with PGTCS, in particular during titration. In patients with more than one seizure type, the observed 
benefit of control for one seizure type should be weighed against any observed worsening in another 
seizure type. 
Potential for electro-clinical worsening in specific paediatric epilepsy syndromes 
The safety and efficacy of lacosamide in paediatric patients with epilepsy syndromes in which focal 
and generalised seizures may coexist have not been determined. 
Excipients 
Lacosamide Accord contains soya lecithin. Therefore, this medicinal product should be used with 
caution in patients allergic to peanut or soya. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be 
associated with PR prolongation (including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products) 
and in patients treated with antiarrhythmics. However, subgroup analysis in clinical studies did not 
identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of 
carbamazepine or lamotrigine. 
In vitro data 
Data generally suggest that lacosamide has a low interaction potential. In vitro studies indicate that the 
enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP 2D6, and CYP2E1 are not inhibited by lacosamide at plasma 
concentrations observed in clinical studies. An in vitro study indicated that lacosamide is not 
transported by P-glycoprotein in the intestine. In vitro data 
show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of the O-
desmethyl metabolite. 
In vivo data 
Lacosamide does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. 
Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of midazolam (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 200 
mg twice a day), but Cmax of midazolam was slightly increased (30 %). Lacosamide did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosamide given 300 mg 
twice a day).  
The CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (40 mg once daily) did not give rise to a clinically significant 
change in lacosamide exposure. Thus, moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic 
lacosamide exposure to a clinically relevant extent.  
Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. 
fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g. itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin), which may lead 
to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo, but 
are possible based on in vitro data. 
Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin or St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may moderately 
reduce the systemic exposure of lacosamide. Therefore, starting or ending treatment with these 
enzyme inducers should be done with caution. 
Antiepileptic medicinal products  
In interaction studies lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of 
carbamazepine and valproic acid. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by 
carbamazepine and by valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic analyses in different age groups 
estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products known to be enzyme 
inducers (carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, in various doses) decreased the overall systemic 
exposure of lacosamide by 25 % in adults and 17 % in paediatric patients.  
Oral contraceptives 
In an interaction study there was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral 
contraceptives ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Progesterone concentrations were not affected 
when the medicinal products were co-administered. 
Others 
Interaction studies showed that lacosamide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There 
was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and metformin.  
Co-administration of warfarin with lacosamide does not result in a clinically relevant change in the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a 
pharmacodynamic effect cannot be excluded. 
Lacosamide has a low protein binding of less than 15 %. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions 
with other medicinal products through competition for protein binding sites are considered unlikely. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Physicians should discuss family planning and contraception with women of childbearing potential 
taking lacosamide (see Pregnancy). 
If a woman decides to become pregnant, the use of lacosamide should be carefully re-evaluated 
Pregnancy 
Risk related to epilepsy and antiepileptic medicinal products in general  
For all antiepileptic medicinal products, it has been shown that in the offspring of treated women with 
epilepsy, the prevalence of malformations is two to three times greater than the rate of approximately 
3 % in the general population. In the treated population, an increase in malformations has been noted 
with polytherapy, however, the extent to which the treatment and/or the illness is responsible has not 
been elucidated. 
Moreover, effective antiepileptic therapy must not be interrupted, since the aggravation of the illness is 
detrimental to both the mother and the foetus. 
Risk related to lacosamide 
There are no adequate data from the use of lacosamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals did not 
indicate any teratogenic effects in rats or rabbits, but embryotoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits 
at maternal toxic doses (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lacosamide should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if the benefit to the mother 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus). If women decide to become pregnant, the use of this 
product should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Breastfeeding 
Lacosamide is excreted in human breast milk. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded.,It is 
recommended that breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with lacosamide. 
Fertility 
No adverse reactions on male or female fertility or reproduction were observed in rats at doses 
producing plasma exposures (AUC) up to approximately 2 times the plasma AUC in humans at the 
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lacosamide has minor to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Lacosamide 
treatment has been associated with dizziness or blurred vision.  
Accordingly, patients should be advised not to drive or to operate other potentially hazardous 
machinery until they are familiar with the effects of lacosamide on their ability to perform such 
activities. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Based on the analysis of pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in adjunctive therapy in 
1,308 patients with partial-onset seizures, a total of 61.9 % of patients randomised to lacosamide and 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35.2 % of patients randomised to placebo reported at least 1 adverse reaction. The most frequently 
reported adverse reactions (≥ 10 %) with lacosamide treatment were dizziness, headache, nausea and 
diplopia. They were usually mild to moderate in intensity. Some were dose-related and could be 
alleviated by reducing the dose. Incidence and severity of central nervous system (CNS) and 
gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions usually decreased over time. 
In all of these controlled clinical studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 12.2 % 
for patients randomised to lacosamide and 1.6 % for patients randomised to placebo. The most 
common adverse reaction resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy was dizziness.  
Incidence of CNS adverse reactions such as dizziness may be higher after a loading dose. 
Based on the analysis of data from a non-inferiority monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide 
to carbamazepine controlled release (CR), the most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥ 10 %) for 
lacosamide were headache and dizziness. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 10.6 
% for patients treated with lacosamide and 15.6 % for patients treated with carbamazepine CR. 
The safety profile of lacosamide reported in a study conducted in patients aged 4 years and older with 
idiopathic generalised epilepsy with primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was consistent 
with the safety profile reported from the pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in partial-onset 
seizures. Additional adverse reactions reported in PGTCS patients were myoclonic epilepsy (2.5 % in 
the lacosamide-group and 0 % in the placebo-group) and ataxia (3.3 % in the lacosamide-group and 
0 % in the placebo-group). The most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness and 
somnolence. The most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy 
were dizziness and suicidal ideation. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 9.1 % in 
the lacosamide group and 4.1 % in the placebo group. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below shows the frequencies of adverse reactions which have been reported in clinical 
studies and post-marketing experience. The frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) and not known (frequency cannot be 
estimated from available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
Very 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
System organ 
class 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Agranulocytosis(1) 
Drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) (1,2) 
Convulsion 
Drug 
hypersensitivity(1) 
Aggression  
Agitation(1)  
Euphoric mood(1) 
Psychotic 
disorder(1) 
Suicide attempt (1) 
Suicidal ideation  
Hallucination (1) 
Syncope(2) 
Coordination 
abnormal 
Dyskinesia 
Depression 
Confusional state 
Insomnia(1) 
Myoclonic 
seizures(3) 
Ataxia 
Balance disorder  
Memory 
impairment  
Cognitive disorder  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Somnolence 
Tremor  
Nystagmus 
Hypoesthesia 
Dysarthria 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Paraesthesia 
Vision blurred 
Vertigo 
Tinnitus 
Vomiting  
Constipation 
Flatulence  
Dyspepsia 
Dry mouth 
Diarrhoea 
Pruritus 
Rash(1) 
Muscle spasms 
Gait disturbance 
Asthenia  
Fatigue 
Irritability 
Feeling drunk 
Fall  
Skin laceration 
Contusion 
Diplopia 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions  
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia (1) 
Atrioventricular 
block(1,2) 
Bradycardia(1,2) 
Atrial Fibrillation 
(1,2) 
Atrial Flutter (1,2) 
Liver function test 
abnormal (2)  
Hepatic enzyme 
increased 
(> 2x ULN) (1) 
Angioedema(1)  
Urticaria(1) 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome(1) 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis(1) 
(1) Adverse reactions reported in post marketing experience. 
(2) See Description of selected adverse reactions. 
(3) Reported in PGTCS studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The use of lacosamide is associated with dose-related increase in the PR interval. Adverse reactions 
associated with PR interval prolongation (e.g. atrioventricular block, syncope, bradycardia) may occur.  
In adjunctive clinical studies in epilepsy patients, the incidence rate of reported first-degree AV Block 
is uncommon, 0.7 %, 0 %, 0.5 % and 0 % for lacosamide 200 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg or placebo, 
respectively. No second- or higher degree AV Block was seen in these studies. However, cases with 
second- and third- degree AV Block associated with lacosamide treatment have been reported in post-
marketing experience. In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the extent of increase in PR interval was comparable between lacosamide and carbamazepine. 
The incidence rate for syncope reported in pooled adjunctive therapy clinical studies is uncommon and 
did not differ between lacosamide (n=944) treated epilepsy patients (0.1 %) and placebo (n=364) 
treated epilepsy patients (0.3 %). In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to 
carbamazepine CR, syncope was reported in 7/444 (1.6 %) lacosamide patients and in 1/442 (0.2 %) 
carbamazepine CR patients. 
Atrial fibrillation or flutter were not reported in short term clinical studies; however, both have been 
reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-marketing experience. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed in placebo-controlled clinical studies with 
lacosamide in adult patients with partial-onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant 
antiepileptic medicinal products. Elevations of ALT to ≥3x ULN occurred in 0.7 % (7/935) of 
Lacosamide patients and 0 % (0/356) of placebo patients. 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (also known as Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms, DRESS) have been reported in patients treated with some antiepileptic medicinal products. 
These reactions are variable in expression, but typically present with fever and rash and can be 
associated with involvement of different organ systems. If multiorgan hypersensitivity reaction is 
suspected, lacosamide should be discontinued. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile of lacosamide in placebo-controlled (255 patients from 1 month to less than 4 years 
of age and 343 patients from 4 years to less than 17 years of age) and in open-label clinical studies 
(847 patients from 1 month to less than or equal to 18 years of age) in adjunctive therapy in paediatric 
patients with partial-onset seizures was consistent with the safety profile observed in adults. As data 
available in paediatric patients younger than 2 years of age is limited, lacosamide is not indicated in 
this age range. 
The additional adverse reactions observed in the paediatric population were pyrexia, nasopharyngitis, 
pharyngitis, decreased appetite, abnormal behaviour and lethargy. Somnolence was reported more 
frequently in the paediatric population (≥ 1/10) compared to the adult population (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10). 
Elderly population  
In the monotherapy study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, the types of adverse reactions 
related to lacosamide in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) appear to be similar to that observed in 
patients less than 65 years of age. However, a higher incidence (≥5 % difference) of fall, diarrhoea and 
tremor has been reported in elderly patients compared to younger adult patients. The most frequent 
cardiac-related adverse reaction reported in elderly compared to the younger adult population was first 
degree AV block. This was reported with lacosamide in 4.8 % (3/62) in elderly patients versus 1.6 % 
(6/382) in younger adult patients. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events observed with 
lacosamide was 21.0 % (13/62) in elderly patients versus 9.2 % (35/382) in younger adult patients. 
These differences between elderly and younger adult patients were similar to those observed in the 
active comparator group. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Symptoms observed after an accidental or intentional overdose of lacosamide are primarily associated 
with CNS and gastrointestinal system. 
  The types of adverse reactions experienced by patients exposed to doses above 400 mg up to 
800 mg were not clinically different from those of patients administered recommended doses 
of lacosamide. 
  Reactions reported after an intake of more than 800 mg are dizziness, nausea, vomiting, 
seizures (generalised tonic-clonic seizures, status epilepticus). Cardiac conduction disorders, 
shock and coma have also been observed. Fatalities have been reported in patients following 
an intake of acute single overdose of several grams of lacosamide. 
Management 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide. Treatment of lacosamide overdose should 
include general supportive measures and may include haemodialysis if necessary (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX18  
Mechanism of action 
The active substance, lacosamide (R-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide) is a 
functionalised amino acid. 
The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effect in humans remains to be 
fully elucidated. In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances 
slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable 
neuronal membranes.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Lacosamide protected against seizures in a broad range of animal models of partial and primary 
generalised seizures and delayed kindling development.  
In non-clinical experiments lacosamide in combination with levetiracetam, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate or gabapentin showed synergistic or additive anticonvulsant effects. 
Clinical efficacy and safety (partial-onset seizures) 
Adult population 
Monotherapy 
Efficacy of lacosamide as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, non-
inferiority comparison to carbamazepine CR in 886 patients 16 years of age or older with newly or 
recently diagnosed epilepsy. The patients had to present with unprovoked partial-onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation. The patients were randomized to carbamazepine CR or 
lacosamide, provided as tablets, in a 1:1 ratio. The dose was based on dose-response and ranged from 
400 to 1,200 mg/day for carbamazepine CR and from 200 to 600 mg/day for lacosamide. The duration 
of the treatment was up to 121 weeks depending on the response. 
The estimated 6-month seizure freedom rates were 89.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 91.1 % 
for carbamazepine CR treated patients using the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis method. The adjusted 
absolute difference between treatments was -1.3 % (95 % CI: -5.5, 2.8).  The Kaplan-Meier estimates 
of 12-month seizure freedom rates were 77.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 82.7 % for 
carbamazepine CR treated patients. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 6-month seizure freedom rates in elderly patients of 65 and above (62 patients in lacosamide, 57 
patients in carbamazepine CR) were similar between both treatment groups. The rates were also 
similar to those observed in the overall population.  In the elderly population, the maintenance 
lacosamide dose was 200 mg/day in 55 patients (88.7 %), 400 mg/day in 6 patients (9.7 %) and the 
dose was escalated to over 400 mg/day in 1 patient (1.6 %). 
Conversion to monotherapy 
The efficacy and safety of lacosamide in conversion to monotherapy has been assessed in a historical-
controlled, multicentre, double-blind, randomized trial. In this study, 425 patients aged 16 to 70 years 
with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic medicinal 
products were randomized to be converted to lacosamide monotherapy (either 400mg/day or 
300mg/day in a 3:1 ratio). In treated patients who completed titration and started withdrawing 
antiepileptic medicinal products ( 284 and 99 respectively), monotherapy was maintained in 71.5 % 
and 70.7 % of patients respectively for 57-105 days (median 71 days), over the targeted observation 
period of 70 days. 
Adjunctive therapy 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy at recommended doses (200 mg/day, 400 mg/day) 
was established in 3 multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical studies with a 12-week 
maintenance period. Lacosamide 600 mg/day was also shown to be effective in controlled adjunctive 
therapy studies, although the efficacy was similar to 400 mg/day and patients were less likely to 
tolerate this dose because of CNS- and gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions. Thus, the 
600 mg/day dose is not recommended. The maximum recommended dose is 400 mg/day. These 
studies, involving 1,308 patients with a history of an average of 23 years of partial-onset seizures, 
were designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lacosamide when administered concomitantly 
with 1-3 antiepileptic medicinal products in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation. Overall the proportion of subjects with a 50% reduction in seizure 
frequency was 23 %, 34 %, and 40 % for placebo, lacosamide 200 mg/day and lacosamide 
400 mg/day.  
The pharmacokinetics and safety of a single loading dose of intravenous lacosamide were determined 
in a multicenter, open-label study designed to assess the safety and tolerability of rapid initiation of 
lacosamide using a single intravenous loading dose (including 200 mg) followed by twice daily oral 
dosing (equivalent to the intravenous dose) as adjunctive therapy in adult subjects 16 to 60 years of 
age with partial-onset seizures. 
Paediatric population 
Partial-onset seizures have a similar pathophysiology clinical expression in children from 2 years of 
age and in adults. The efficacy of lacosamide in children aged 2 years and older has been extrapolated 
from data of adolescents and adults with partial-onset seizures, for whom a similar response was 
expected provided the paediatric dose adaptations are established (see section 4.2) and safety has been 
demonstrated (see section 4.8). 
The efficacy supported by the extrapolation principle stated above was confirmed by a double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-controlled clinical study. The study consisted of an 8-week baseline period 
followed by a 6-week titration period. Eligible patients on a stable dose regimen of 1 to 
≤ 3 antiepileptic medicinal products, who still experienced at least 2 partial-onset seizures during the 
4 weeks prior to screening with seizure-free phase no longer than 21 days in the 8-week period prior to 
entry into the baseline period, were randomised to receive either placebo (n=172) or lacosamide 
(n=171).  
Dosing was initiated at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in 
subjects weighing 50 kg or more in 2 divided doses. During the titration period, lacosamide doses 
were adjusted in 1or 2 mg/kg/day increments in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 50 or 100 mg/day 
in subjects weighing 50 kg or more at weekly intervals to achieve the target maintenance period dose 
range. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects must have achieved the minimum target dose for their body weight category for the final 
3 days of the titration period to be eligible for entry into the 10-week maintenance period. Subjects 
were to remain on stable lacosamide dose throughout the maintenance period or were withdrawn and 
entered in the blinded taper period. 
Statistically significant (p=0.0003) and clinically relevant reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency 
per 28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was observed between the lacosamide and the 
placebo group. The percent reduction over placebo based on analysis of covariance was 31.72 % 
(95 % CI: 16.342, 44.277). 
Overall, the proportion of subjects with at least a 50 % reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency per 
28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was 52.9 % in the lacosamide group compared with 
33.3 % in the placebo group. 
The quality of life assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory indicated that subjects in both 
lacosamide and placebo groups had a similar and stable health-related quality of life during the entire 
treatment period.  
Clinical efficacy and safety (primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures) 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years of age and older with idiopathic 
generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was established 
in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical study. 
The study consisted of a 12-week historical baseline period, a 4-week prospective baseline period and 
a 24- week treatment period (which included a 6-week titration period and an 18-week maintenance 
period). Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptic drugs experiencing at least 3 
documented PGTCS during the 16-week combined baseline period were randomized 1 to 1 to receive 
lacosamide 
or placebo (patients in the full analysis set: lacosamide n=118, placebo n=121; of them 8 patients in 
the ≥ 4 to < 12 years age group and 16 patients in the ≥ 12 to < 18 years range were treated with LCM 
and 9 and 16 patients, respectively with placebo). 
Patients were titrated up to the target maintenance period dose of 12 mg/kg/day in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg, 8 mg/kg/day in patients weighing from 30 to less than 50 kg or 400 mg/day in patients 
weighing 50 kg or more. 
Efficacy variable 
Parameter 
Time to second PGTCS 
Median (days) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
Hazard Ratio 
95 % CI 
p-value 
Seizure freedom 
Placebo 
N=121 
77.0 
49.0, 128.0 
Lacosamide 
N=118 
- 
- 
0.540 
0.377, 0.774 
< 0.001 
Stratified Kaplan-Meier estimate (%) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
95 % CI 
p-value 
17.2 
10.4, 24.0 
31.3 
22.8, 39.9 
14.1 
3.2, 25.1 
0.011 
Note: For the lacosamide group, the median time to second PGTCS could not be estimated by Kaplan- 
Meier methods because ˃ 50% of patients did not experience a second PGTCS by Day 166. 
The findings in the pediatric subgroup were consistent with the results of the overall population for the 
primary, secondary and other efficacy endpoints. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration. The oral bioavailability of 
lacosamide tablets is approximately 100 %. Following oral administration, the plasma concentration of 
unchanged lacosamide increases rapidly and reaches Cmax about 0.5 to 4 hours post-dose. Food does 
not affect the rate and extent of absorption. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 0.6 L/kg. Lacosamide is less than 15 % bound to plasma 
proteins. 
Biotransformation 
95 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as lacosamide and metabolites. The metabolism of 
lacosamide has not been completely characterised.  
The major compounds excreted in urine are unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40 % of the dose) 
and its O-desmethyl metabolite less than 30 %.  
A polar fraction proposed to be serine derivatives accounted for approximately 20 % in urine, but was 
detected only in small amounts (0-2 %) in human plasma of some subjects. Small amounts (0.5-2 %) 
of additional metabolites were found in the urine.  
In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of 
the O-desmethyl metabolite but the main contributing isoenzyme has not been confirmed in vivo. No 
clinically relevant difference in lacosamide exposure was observed comparing its pharmacokinetics in 
extensive metabolisers (EMs, with a functional CYP2C19) and poor metabolisers (PMs, lacking a 
functional CYP2C19). Furthermore an interaction study with omeprazole (CYP2C19-inhibitor) 
demonstrated no clinically relevant changes in lacosamide plasma concentrations indicating that the 
importance of this pathway is minor. The plasma concentration of O-desmethyl-lacosamide is 
approximately 15 % of the concentration of lacosamide in plasma. This major metabolite has no 
known pharmacological activity. 
Elimination 
Lacosamide is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and 
biotransformation. After oral and intravenous administration of radiolabeled lacosamide, 
approximately 95 % of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0.5 % in the 
faeces. The elimination half-life of lacosamide is approximately 13 hours. The pharmacokinetics is 
dose-proportional and constant over time, with low intra- and inter-subject variability. Following twice 
daily dosing, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after a 3 day period. The plasma 
concentration increases with an accumulation factor of approximately 2. 
A single loading dose of 200 mg approximates steady-state concentrations comparable to 100 mg 
twice daily oral administration. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Gender 
Clinical studies indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide. 
Renal impairment 
The AUC of lacosamide was increased by approximately 30% in mildly and moderately and 60% in 
severely renal impaired patients and patients with end-stage renal disease requiring haemodialysis 
compared to healthy subjects, whereas Cmax was unaffected. 
Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by haemodialysis. Following a 4-hour haemodialysis 
treatment, AUC of lacosamide is reduced by approximately 50 %. Therefore dosage supplementation 
following haemodialysis is recommended (see section 4.2). The exposure of the O-desmethyl 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolite was several-fold increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. In 
absence of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, the levels were increased and 
continuously rising during the 24-hour sampling. It is unknown whether the increased metabolite 
exposure in end-stage renal disease subjects could give rise to adverse effects but no pharmacological 
activity of the metabolite has been identified. 
Hepatic impairment 
Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) showed higher plasma concentrations of 
lacosamide (approximately 50 % higher AUCnorm). The higher exposure was partly due to a reduced 
renal function in the studied subjects. The decrease in non-renal clearance in the patients of the study 
was estimated to give a 20 % increase in the AUC of lacosamide. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide 
has not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
In a study in elderly men and women including 4 patients > 75 years of age, AUC was about 30 and 50 
% increased compared to young men, respectively. This is partly related to lower body weight. The 
body weight normalized difference is 26 and 23 %, respectively. An increased variability in exposure 
was also observed. The renal clearance of lacosamide was only slightly reduced in elderly subjects in 
this study.  
A general dose reduction is not considered to be necessary unless indicated due to reduced renal 
function (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
The paediatric pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in six placebo-controlled randomised clinical 
studies and five open-label studies in 1655 adult and paediatric patients with epilepsy aged 1 month to 
17 years. Three of these studies were performed in adults, 7 in pediatric patients, and 1 in a mixed 
population. The administered lacosamide doses ranged from 2 to 17.8 mg/kg/day in twice daily intake, 
not to exceed 600 mg/day. 
The typical plasma clearance was estimated to be 0.46 L/h, 0.81 L/h, 1.03 L/h and 1.34 L/h for 
paediatric patients weighing 10 kg, 20 kg, 30 kg and 50 kg respectively. In comparison, plasma 
clearance was estimated at 1.74 L/h in adults (70 kg body weight). 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse pharmacokinetic samples from PGTCS study showed a similar 
exposure in patients with PGTCS and in patients with partial-onset seizures 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicity studies, the plasma concentrations of lacosamide obtained were similar or only 
marginally higher than those observed in patients, which leaves low or non-existing margins to human 
exposure. 
A safety pharmacology study with intravenous administration of lacosamide in anesthetised dogs 
showed transient increases in PR interval and QRS complex duration and decreases in blood pressure 
most likely due to a cardiodepressant action. These transient changes started in the same concentration 
range as after maximum recommended clinical dosing. In anesthetised dogs and Cynomolgus 
monkeys, at intravenous doses of 15-60 mg/kg, slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, 
atrioventricular block and atrioventricular dissociation were seen. 
In the repeated dose toxicity studies, mild reversible liver changes were observed in rats starting at 
about 3 times the clinical exposure. These changes included an increased organ weight, hypertrophy of 
hepatocytes, increases in serum concentrations of liver enzymes and increases in total cholesterol and 
triglycerides. Apart from the hypertrophy of hepatocytes, no other histopathologic changes were 
observed. 
In reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rodents and rabbits, no teratogenic effects but an 
increase in numbers of stillborn pups and pup deaths in the peripartum period, and slightly reduced 
live litter sizes and pup body weights were observed at maternal toxic doses in rats corresponding to 
systemic exposure levels similar to the expected clinical exposure. Since higher exposure levels could 
not be tested in animals due to maternal toxicity, data are insufficient to fully characterise the 
embryofetotoxic and teratogenic potential of lacosamide. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in rats revealed that lacosamide and/or its metabolites readily crossed the placental barrier. 
In juvenile rats and dogs, the types of toxicity do not differ qualitatively from those observed in adult 
animals. In juvenile rats, a reduced body weight was observed at systemic exposure levels similar to 
the expected clinical exposure. In juvenile dogs, transient and dose-related CNS clinical signs started 
to be observed at systemic exposure levels below the expected clinical exposure. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
14 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya)  
Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Lacosamide Accord film-coated tablets are packed in PVC-PVDC/Aluminium blisters.  
Packs of 14, 56, 60 or 168 tablets  
Packs of 14 x 1 or 56 x 1 tablet in perforated unit dose blisters 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
No special requirements for disposal. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film coated tablets: 
EU/1/17/1230/001-004 
EU/1/17/1230/017-018 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film coated tablets: 
EU/1/17/1230/005-008 
EU/1/17/1230/019-020 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film coated tablets: 
EU/1/17/1230/009-012 
EU/1/17/1230/021-022 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film coated tablets: 
EU/1/17/1230/013-016 
EU/1/17/1230/023-024 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Treatment initiation pack (in adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more and adults only) 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
One film-coated tablet contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
Excipient(s) with known effect: 
50 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.105 mg of lecithin (soya) 
100 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.210 mg of lecithin (soya) 
150 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.315 mg of lecithin (soya) 
200 mg: Each film-coated tablet contains 0.420 mg of lecithin (soya) 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Pink, oval, approximately 10.3 x 4.8 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “50” on other 
side. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Dark yellow, oval, approximately 13.0 x 6.0 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “100” 
on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Salmon, oval, approximately 15.0 x 6.9 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “150” on 
other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blue, oval, approximately 16.4 x 7.6 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” on one side and “200” on other 
side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults 
adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults adolescents and children 
from 4 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate formulation and strength according to weight and 
dose. 
Lacosamide must be taken twice a day, approximately 12 hours apart. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should be instructed to take the missed dose immediately, and then to 
take the next dose of lacosamide at the regularly scheduled time. If the patient notices the missed dose 
within 6 hours of the next one, he/she should be instructed to wait to take the next dose of lacosamide 
at the regularly scheduled time. Patients should not take a double doseAdolescents and children 
weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day)  which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day)  after one week. 
Lacosamide can also be initiated at the dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day)   based on the 
physician's assessment of required seizure reduction versus potential side effects. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day).  
In patients having reached a dose greater than 400mg/day and who need an additional antiepileptic 
medicinal product, the posology that is recommended for adjunctive therapy below should be 
followed. 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day)  which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day)  after one week.  
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 200 mg 
twice a day (400 mg/day). 
Lacosamide Accord treatment initiation pack contains 4 different packages (one for each tablet 
strength) with 14 tablets each, for the first 2 to 4 weeks of therapy depending on the patient´s response 
and tolerability. The packages are marked with ‘week 1 (2, 3 or 4)’. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the first day of treatment the patient starts with Lacosamide Accord 50 mg tablets twice a day (100 
mg/day). During the second week, the patient takes Lacosamide Accord 100 mg tablets twice a day 
(200 mg/day).. 
Depending on response and tolerability, Lacosamide Accord 150 mg tablets may be taken twice a day  
(300 mg/day) during the third week and Lacosamide Accord 200 mg tablets twice a day (400 mg/day)  
during the fourth week. 
Discontinuation 
If lacosamide has to be discontinued, it is recommended that the dose is reduced gradually in weekly 
decrements of 4 mg/kg/day (for patients with a body weight less than 50 kg) or 200 mg/day (for 
patients with a body weight of 50 kg or more) for patients who have achieved a dose of lacosamide 
≥ 6 mg/kg/day or ≥ 300 mg/day, respectively. A slower taper in weekly decrements of 2 mg/kg/day or 
100 mg/day can be considered, if medically necessaryIn patients who develop serious cardiac 
arrhythmia, clinical benefit/risk assessment should be performed and if needed lacosamide should be 
discontinued. 
Special populations 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
No dose reduction is necessary in elderly patients. Age associated decreased renal clearance with an 
increase in AUC levels should be considered in elderly patients (see following paragraph ‘renal 
impairment’ and section 5.2). There is limited clinical data in the elderly patients with epilepsy, 
particularly at doses greater than 400 mg/day (see sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in mildly and moderately renally impaired adult and paediatric 
patients (CLCR > 30 ml/min). A maximum dose of 250 mg/day is recommended for paediatric patients 
weighing 50 kg or more and for adult patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) or 
with end-stage renal disease. In paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with severe renal 
impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) and in those with end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25 % of the 
maximum dose is recommended. For all patients requiring haemodialysis a supplement of up to 50 % 
of the divided daily dose directly after the end of haemodialysis is recommended. Treatment of 
patients with end-stage renal disease should be made with caution as there is little clinical experience 
and accumulation of a metabolite (with no known pharmacological activity). In all patients with renal 
impairment, the dose titration should be performed with caution (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
A maximum dose of 300 mg/day is recommended for paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and 
for adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.  
The dose titration in these patients should be performed with caution considering co-existing renal 
impairment. Based on data in adults, in paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment, a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dose should be applied. The 
pharmacokinetics of lacosamide has not been evaluated in severely hepatic impaired patients (see 
section 5.2). Lacosamide should be administered to adult and paediatric patients with severe hepatic 
impairment only when the expected therapeutic benefits are anticipated to outweigh the possible risks. 
The dose may need to be adjusted while carefully observing disease activity and potential side effects 
in the patient. 
Paediatric population 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more  
Dosage in adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more is the same as in adults (see above). 
Children (from 2 years of age) and adolescents weighing below 50 kg 
This presentation is not suitable for this category of patients. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children less than 2 years of age 
The safety and efficacy of lacosamide in children aged below 2 years have not yet been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Lacosamide film-coated tablets are for oral use. Lacosamide may be taken with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, soya lecithin or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Known second- or third-degree atrioventricular (AV) block.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with antiepileptic medicinal 
products in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled clinical studies of 
antiepileptic medicinal products has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and 
behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known and the available data do not exclude the 
possibility of an increased risk for lacosamide. 
Therefore, patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviours and appropriate 
treatment should be considered. Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek medical 
advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge (see section 4.8). 
Cardiac rhythm and conduction 
Dose-related prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide have been observed in clinical studies. 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as 
patients with known cardiac conduction problems or severe cardiac disease (e.g. myocardial 
ischaemia/infarction, heart failure, structural heart disease or cardiac sodium channelopathies) or 
patients treated with medicinal products affecting cardiac conduction, including antiarrhythmics and 
sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products (see section 4.5), as well as in elderly 
patients. 
In these patients it should be considered to perform an ECG before a lacosamide dose increase above 
400mg/day and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state. 
In the placebo-controlled clincal studies of lacosamide in epilepsy patients, atrial fibrillation or flutter 
were not reported; however, both have been reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-
marketing experience. 
In post-marketing experience, AV block (including second degree or higher AV block) has been 
reported. In patients with proarrhythmic conditions, ventricular tachyarrhythmia has been reported. In 
rare cases, these events have led to asystole, cardiac arrest and death in patients with underlying 
proarrhythmic conditions. 
Patients should be made aware of the symptoms of cardiac arrhythmia (e.g. slow, rapid or irregular 
pulse, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting). Patients should be counselled to 
seek immediate medical advice if these symptoms occur. 
Dizziness 
Treatment with lacosamide has been associated with dizziness which could increase the occurrence of 
accidental injury or falls. Therefore, patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
familiar with the potential effects of the medicine (see section 4.8). 
Potential for new onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures 
New onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures has been reported in both adult and paediatric patients 
with PGTCS, in particular during titration. In patients with more than one seizure type, the observed 
benefit of control for one seizure type should be weighed against any observed worsening in another 
seizure type. 
Potential for electro-clinical worsening in specific paediatric epilepsy syndromes 
The safety and efficacy of lacosamide in paediatric patients with epilepsy syndromes in which focal 
and generalised seizures may coexist have not been determined. 
Excipients 
Lacosamide Accord contains soya lecithin. Therefore, this medicinal product should be used with 
caution in patients allergic to peanut or soya. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be 
associated with PR prolongation (including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products) 
and in patients treated with antiarrhythmics. However, subgroup analysis in clinical studies did not 
identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of 
carbamazepine or lamotrigine. 
In vitro data 
Data generally suggest that lacosamide has a low interaction potential. In vitro studies indicate that the 
enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 are not inhibited by lacosamide at plasma 
concentrations observed in clinical studies. An in vitro study indicated that lacosamide is not 
transported by P-glycoprotein in the intestine. In vitro data 
show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of the O-
desmethyl metabolite. 
In vivo data 
Lacosamide does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. 
Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of midazolam (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 200 
mg twice a day) but Cmax of midazolam was slightly increased (30 %). Lacosamide did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosamide given 300 mg 
twice a day).  
The CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (40 mg once daily) did not give rise to a clinically significant 
change in lacosamide exposure. Thus, moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic 
lacosamide exposure to a clinically relevant extent.  
Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. 
fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g. itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin), which may lead 
to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo but 
are possible based on in vitro data. 
Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin or St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may 
moderately reduce the systemic exposure of lacosamide. Therefore, starting or ending treatment with 
these enzyme inducers should be done with caution. 
Antiepileptic medicinal products  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In interaction studies lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of 
carbamazepine and valproic acid. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by 
carbamazepine and by valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic analyses in different age groups 
estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products  known to be enzyme 
inducers (carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, in various doses) decreased the overall systemic 
exposure of lacosamide by 25 % in adults and 17 % in paediatric patients.  
Oral contraceptives 
In an interaction study there was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral 
contraceptives ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Progesterone concentrations were not affected 
when the medicinal products were co-administered. 
Others 
Interaction studies showed that lacosamide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There 
was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and metformin.  
Co-administration of warfarin with lacosamide does not result in a clinically relevant change in the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin. 
Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a 
pharmacodynamic effect cannot be excluded. 
Lacosamide has a low protein binding of less than 15 %. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions 
with other medicinal products through competition for protein binding sites are considered unlikely. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Physicians should discuss family planning and contraception with women of childbearing potential 
taking lacosamide (see Pregnancy). 
If a woman decides to become pregnant, the use of lacosamide should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Pregnancy 
Risk related to epilepsy and antiepileptic medicinal products in general  
For all antiepileptic medicinal products, it has been shown that in the offspring of treated women with 
epilepsy, the prevalence of malformations is two to three times greater than the rate of approximately 
3 % in the general population. In the treated population, an increase in malformations has been noted 
with polytherapy, however, the extent to which the treatment and/or the illness is responsible has not 
been elucidated. 
Moreover, effective antiepileptic therapy must not be interrupted, since the aggravation of the illness is 
detrimental to both the mother and the foetus. 
Risk related to lacosamide 
There are no adequate data from the use of lacosamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals did not 
indicate any teratogenic effects in rats or rabbits, but embryotoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits 
at maternal toxic doses (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lacosamide should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if the benefit to the mother 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus). If women decide to become pregnant, the use of this 
product should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Breastfeeding 
Lacosamide is excreted in human breast milk. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. It is 
recommended that  breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with lacosamide. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
No adverse reactions on male or female fertility or reproduction were observed in rats at doses 
producing plasma exposures (AUC) up to approximately 2 times the plasma AUC in humans at the 
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lacosamide has minor to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Lacosamide 
treatment has been associated with dizziness or blurred vision.  
Accordingly, patients should be advised not to drive or to operate other potentially hazardous 
machinery until they are familiar with the effects of lacosamide on their ability to perform such 
activities. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Based on the analysis of pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in adjunctive therapy in 
1,308 patients with partial-onset seizures, a total of 61.9 % of patients randomised to lacosamide and 
35.2 % of patients randomised to placebo reported at least 1 adverse reaction. The most frequently 
reported adverse reactions (≥10 %) with lacosamide treatment were dizziness, headache, nausea and 
diplopia. They were usually mild to moderate in intensity. Some were dose-related and could be 
alleviated by reducing the dose. Incidence and severity of central nervous system (CNS) and 
gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions usually decreased over time. 
In all of these controlled clinical studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 12.2 % 
for patients randomised to lacosamide and 1.6 % for patients randomised to placebo. The most 
common adverse reaction resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy was dizziness.  
Based on the analysis of data from a non-inferiority monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide 
to carbamazepine controlled release (CR), the most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥10 %) for 
lacosamide were headache and dizziness. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 10.6 
% for patients treated with lacosamide and 15.6 % for patients treated with carbamazepine CR. 
The safety profile of lacosamide reported in a study conducted in patients aged 4 years and older with 
idiopathic generalised epilepsy with primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was consistent 
with the safety profile reported from the pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in partial-onset 
seizures. Additional adverse reactions reported in PGTCS patients were myoclonic epilepsy (2.5 % in 
the lacosamide-group and 0 % in the placebo-group) and ataxia (3.3 % in the lacosamide-group and 
0 % in the placebo-group). The most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness and 
somnolence. The most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy 
were dizziness and suicidal ideation. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 9.1 % in 
the lacosamide group and 4.1 % in the placebo group. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below shows the frequencies of adverse reactions which have been reported in clinical 
studies and post-marketing experience. The frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) and not known (frequency cannot be 
estimated from available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
System organ 
class 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Agranulocytosis(1) 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Diplopia 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
Depression 
Confusional state 
Insomnia(1) 
Myoclonic 
seizures(3) 
Ataxia 
Balance disorder  
Memory 
impairment  
Cognitive disorder  
Somnolence 
Tremor  
Nystagmus 
Hypoesthesia 
Dysarthria 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Paraesthesia 
Vision blurred 
Vertigo 
Tinnitus 
Vomiting  
Constipation 
Flatulence  
Dyspepsia 
Dry mouth 
Diarrhoea 
Pruritus 
Rash(1) 
Muscle spasms 
Gait disturbance 
Asthenia  
24 
Drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms 
(DRESS) (1,2) 
Convulsion 
Drug 
hypersensitivity(1) 
Aggression  
Agitation(1)  
Euphoric mood(1) 
Psychotic 
disorder(1) 
Suicide attempt (1) 
Suicidal ideation  
Hallucination (1) 
Syncope(2) 
Coordination 
abnormal 
Dyskinesia 
Ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia (1) 
Atrioventricular 
block(1,2) 
Bradycardia(1,2) 
Atrial Fibrillation 
(1,2) 
Atrial Flutter (1,2) 
Liver function test 
abnormal (2)  
Hepatic enzyme 
increased 
(> 2x ULN) (1) 
Angioedema(1)  
Urticaria(1) 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome(1) 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
site conditions  
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Fatigue 
Irritability 
Feeling drunk 
Fall  
Skin laceration 
Contusion 
(1) Adverse reactions reported in post marketing experience.  
(2) See Description of selected adverse reactions. 
(3) Reported in PGTCS studies. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The use of lacosamide is associated with dose-related increase in the PR interval. Adverse reactions 
associated with PR interval prolongation (e.g. atrioventricular block, syncope, bradycardia) may occur.  
In adjunctive clinical studies in epilepsy patients, the incidence rate of reported first-degree AV Block 
is uncommon, 0.7 %, 0 %, 0.5 % and 0 % for lacosamide 200 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg or placebo, 
respectively. No second- or higher degree AV Block was seen in these studies. However, cases with 
second and third-degree AV Block associated with lacosamide treatment have been reported in post-
marketing experience. In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, 
the extent of increase in PR interval was comparable between lacosamide and carbamazepine. 
The incidence rate for syncope reported in pooled adjunctive therapy clinical studies is uncommon and 
did not differ between lacosamide (n=944) treated epilepsy patients (0.1 %) and placebo (n=364) 
treated epilepsy patients (0.3 %). In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to 
carbamazepine CR, syncope was reported in 7/444 (1.6 %) lacosamide patients and in 1/442 (0.2 %) 
carbamazepine CR patients.  
Atrial fibrillation or flutter were not reported in short term clinical studies; however, both have been 
reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-marketing experience. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed in placebo-controlled clinical studies  with 
lacosamide in adult patients with partial-onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant 
antiepileptic medicinal products. Elevations of ALT to ≥ 3x ULN occurred in 0.7 % (7/935) of 
Lacosamide patients and 0 % (0/356) of placebo patients. 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (also known as Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms, DRESS) have been reported in patients treated with some antiepileptic medicinal products. 
These reactions are variable in expression but typically present with fever and rash and can be 
associated with involvement of different organ systems. If multiorgan hypersensitivity reaction is 
suspected, lacosamide should be discontinued. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile of lacosamide in placebo-controlled (255 patients from 1 month to less than 4 years 
of age and 343 patients from 4 years to less than 17 years of age) and in open-label clinical studies 
(847 patients from 1 month to less than or equal to 18 years of age) in adjunctive therapy in paediatric 
patients with partial-onset seizures was consistent with the safety profile observed in adults. As data 
available in paediatric patients younger than 2 years of age is limited, lacosamide is not indicated in 
this age range. 
The additional adverse reactions observed in the paediatric population were pyrexia, nasopharyngitis, 
pharyngitis, decreased appetite, abnormal behaviour and lethargy. Somnolence was reported more 
frequently in the paediatric population (≥ 1/10) compared to the adult population (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10). 
Elderly population  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the monotherapy study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, the types of adverse reactions 
related to lacosamide in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) appear to be similar to that observed in 
patients less than 65 years of age. However, a higher incidence (≥ 5 % difference) of fall, diarrhoea 
and tremor has been reported in elderly patients compared to younger adult patients. The most 
frequent cardiac-related adverse reaction reported in elderly compared to the younger adult population 
was first-degree AV block. This was reported with lacosamide in 4.8 % (3/62) in elderly patients 
versus 1.6 % (6/382) in younger adult patients. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events 
observed with lacosamide was 21.0 % (13/62) in elderly patients versus 9.2 % (35/382) in younger 
adult patients. These differences between elderly and younger adult patients were similar to those 
observed in the active comparator group.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Symptoms observed after an accidental or intentional overdose of lacosamide are primarily associated 
with CNS and gastrointestinal system. 
  The types of adverse reactions experienced by patients exposed to doses above 400 mg up to 
800 mg were not clinically different from those of patients administered recommended doses 
of lacosamide. 
  Reactions reported after an intake of more than 800 mg are dizziness, nausea, vomiting, 
seizures (generalised tonic-clonic seizures, status epilepticus). Cardiac conduction disorders, 
shock and coma have also been observed. Fatalities have been reported in patients following 
an intake of acute single overdose of several grams of lacosamide. 
Management 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide. Treatment of lacosamide overdose should 
include general supportive measures and may include haemodialysis if necessary (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX18  
Mechanism of action 
The active substance, lacosamide (R-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide) is a 
functionalised amino acid. 
The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effect in humans remains to be 
fully elucidated. 
In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances slow 
inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable neuronal 
membranes.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide protected against seizures in a broad range of animal models of partial and primary 
generalised seizures and delayed kindling development.  
In non-clinical experiments lacosamide in combination with levetiracetam, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate or gabapentin showed synergistic or additive anticonvulsant effects. 
Clinical efficacy and safety (partial-onset seizures) 
Adult population 
Monotherapy 
Efficacy of lacosamide as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, non-
inferiority comparison to carbamazepine CR in 886 patients 16 years of age or older with newly or 
recently diagnosed epilepsy. The patients had to present with unprovoked partial-onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation. The patients were randomised to carbamazepine CR or 
lacosamide, provided as tablets, in a 1:1 ratio. The dose was based on dose-response and ranged from 
400 to 1,200 mg/day for carbamazepine CR and from 200 to 600 mg/day for lacosamide. The duration 
of the treatment was up to 121 weeks depending on the response. 
The estimated 6-month seizure freedom rates were 89.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 91.1 % 
for carbamazepine CR treated patients using the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis method. The adjusted 
absolute difference between treatments was -1.3 % (95 % CI: -5.5, 2.8). The Kaplan-Meier estimates 
of 12-month seizure freedom rates were 77.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 82.7 % for 
carbamazepine CR treated patients. 
The 6-month seizure freedom rates in elderly patients of 65 and above (62 patients in lacosamide, 57 
patients in carbamazepine CR) were similar between both treatment groups. The rates were also 
similar to those observed in the overall population.  In the elderly population, the maintenance 
lacosamide dose was 200 mg/day in 55 patients (88.7 %), 400 mg/day in 6 patients (9.7 %) and the 
dose was escalated to over 400 mg/day in 1 patient (1.6 %). 
Conversion to monotherapy 
The efficacy and safety of lacosamide in conversion to monotherapy has been assessed in a historical-
controlled, multicentre, double-blind, randomised study . In this study, 425 patients aged 16 to 70 
years with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic 
medicinal products were randomised to be converted to lacosamide monotherapy (either 400mg/day or 
300mg/day in a 3:1 ratio). In treated patients who completed titration and started withdrawing 
antiepileptic medicinal products (284 and 99 respectively), monotherapy was maintained in 71.5 % 
and 70.7 % of patients respectively for 57-105 days (median 71 days), over the targeted observation 
period of 70 days. 
Adjunctive therapy 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy at recommended doses (200 mg/day, 400 mg/day) 
was established in 3 multicenter, randomised, placebo-controlled clinical studies with a 12-week 
maintenance period. Lacosamide 600 mg/day was also shown to be effective in controlled adjunctive 
therapy studies, although the efficacy was similar to 400 mg/day and patients were less likely to 
tolerate this dose because of CNS- and gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions. Thus, the 
600 mg/day dose is not recommended. The maximum recommended dose is 400 mg/day. These 
studies, involving 1,308 patients with a history of an average of 23 years of partial-onset seizures, 
were designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lacosamide when administered concomitantly 
with 1-3 antiepileptic medicinal products in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation. Overall the proportion of subjects with a 50% reduction in seizure 
frequency was 23 %, 34 %, and 40 % for placebo, lacosamide 200 mg/day and lacosamide 
400 mg/day. 
Paediatric population 
Partial-onset seizures have a similar pathophysiology and  clinical expression in children from 2 years 
of age and in adults. The efficacy of lacosamide in children aged 2 years and older has been 
extrapolated from data of adolescents and adults with partial-onset seizures, for whom a similar 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response was expected provided the paediatric dose adaptations are established (see section 4.2) and 
safety has been demonstrated (see section 4.8). 
The efficacy supported by the extrapolation principle stated above was confirmed by a double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-controlled clinical study. The study consisted of an 8-week baseline period 
followed by a 6-week titration period. Eligible patients on a stable dose regimen of 1 to 
≤ 3 antiepileptic medicinal products, who still experienced at least 2 partial-onset seizures during the 
4 weeks prior to screening with seizure-free phase no longer than 21 days in the 8-week period prior to 
entry into the baseline period, were randomised to receive either placebo (n=172) or lacosamide 
(n=171).  
Dosing was initiated at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in 
subjects weighing 50 kg or more in 2 divided doses. During the titration period, lacosamide doses 
were adjusted in 1or 2 mg/kg/day increments in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 50 or 100 mg/day 
in subjects weighing 50 kg or more at weekly intervals to achieve the target maintenance period dose 
range. 
Subjects must have achieved the minimum target dose for their body weight category for the final 
3 days of the titration period to be eligible for entry into the 10-week maintenance period. Subjects 
were to remain on stable lacosamide dose throughout the maintenance period or were withdrawn and 
entered in the blinded taper period. 
Statistically significant (p=0.0003) and clinically relevant reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency 
per 28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was observed between the lacosamide and the 
placebo group. The percent reduction over placebo based on analysis of covariance was 31.72 % 
(95 % CI: 16.342, 44.277). 
Overall, the proportion of subjects with at least a 50 % reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency per 
28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was 52.9 % in the lacosamide group compared with 
33.3 % in the placebo group. 
The quality of life assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory indicated that subjects in both 
lacosamide and placebo groups had a similar and stable health-related quality of life during the entire 
treatment period.  
Clinical efficacy and safety (primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures) 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years of age and older with idiopathic 
generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was established 
in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical study. 
The study consisted of a 12-week historical baseline period, a 4-week prospective baseline period and 
a 24- week treatment period (which included a 6-week titration period and an 18-week maintenance 
period). Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptic drugs experiencing at least 3 
documented PGTCS during the 16-week combined baseline period were randomized 1 to 1 to receive 
lacosamide 
or placebo (patients in the full analysis set: lacosamide n=118, placebo n=121; of them 8 patients in 
the ≥ 4 to < 12 years age group and 16 patients in the ≥ 12 to < 18 years range were treated with 
lacosamide and 9 and 16 patients, respectively with placebo). 
Patients were titrated up to the target maintenance period dose of 12 mg/kg/day in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg, 8 mg/kg/day in patients weighing from 30 to less than 50 kg or 400 mg/day in patients 
weighing 50 kg or more. 
Efficacy variable Parameter 
Placebo N=121 
Lacosamide N=118 
Time to second PGTCS 
Median (days) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
Hazard Ratio 
95 % CI 
p-value 
- 
- 
77.0 
49.0, 128.0 
0.540 
0.377, 0.774 
< 0.001 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seizure freedom 
Stratified Kaplan-Meier estimate (%) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
95 % CI 
p-value 
17.2 
10.4, 24.0 
14.1 
3.2, 25.1 
0.011 
31.3 
22.8, 39.9 
Note: For the lacosamide group, the median time to second PGTCS could not be estimated by Kaplan- 
Meier methods because ˃ 50% of patients did not experience a second PGTCS by Day 166. 
The findings in the paediatric subgroup were consistent with the results of the overall population for 
the primary, secondary and other efficacy endpoints. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption  
Lacosamide is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration. The oral bioavailability of 
lacosamide tablets is approximately 100%. Following oral administration, the plasma concentration of 
unchanged lacosamide increases rapidly and reaches Cmax about 0.5 to 4 hours post-dose. Food does 
not affect the rate and extent of absorption. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 0.6 L/kg. Lacosamide is less than 15 % bound to plasma 
proteins. 
Biotransformation 
95 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as lacosamide and metabolites. The metabolism of 
lacosamide has not been completely characterised.  
The major compounds excreted in urine are unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40 % of the dose) 
and its O-desmethyl metabolite less than 30 %.  
A polar fraction proposed to be serine derivatives accounted for approximately 20 % in urine, but was 
detected only in small amounts (0-2 %) in human plasma of some subjects. Small amounts (0.5-2 %) 
of additional metabolites were found in the urine.  
In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of 
the O-desmethyl metabolite but the main contributing isoenzyme has not been confirmed in vivo. No 
clinically relevant difference in lacosamide exposure was observed comparing its pharmacokinetics in 
extensive metabolisers (EMs, with a functional CYP2C19) and poor metabolisers (PMs, lacking a 
functional CYP2C19). Furthermore an interaction study with omeprazole (CYP2C19-inhibitor) 
demonstrated no clinically relevant changes in lacosamide plasma concentrations indicating that the 
importance of this pathway is minor. The plasma concentration of O-desmethyl-lacosamide is 
approximately 15 % of the concentration of lacosamide in plasma. This major metabolite has no 
known pharmacological activity. 
Elimination 
Lacosamide is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and 
biotransformation. After oral and intravenous administration of radiolabeled lacosamide, 
approximately 95% of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0.5% in the 
faeces. The elimination half-life of lacosamide is approximately 13 hours. The pharmacokinetics is 
dose-proportional and constant over time, with low intra- and inter-subject variability. Following twice 
daily dosing, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after a 3 day period. The plasma 
concentration increases with an accumulation factor of approximately 2. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Gender 
Clinical studies indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide. 
Renal impairment 
The AUC of lacosamide was increased by approximately 30 % in mildly and moderately and 60 % in 
severely renal impaired patients and patients with end-stage renal disease requiring haemodialysis 
compared to healthy subjects, whereas Cmax was unaffected.  
Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by haemodialysis. Following a 4-hour haemodialysis 
treatment, AUC of lacosamide is reduced by approximately 50 %. Therefore dosage supplementation 
following haemodialysis is recommended (see section 4.2). The exposure of the O-desmethyl 
metabolite was several-fold increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. In 
absence of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, the levels were increased and 
continuously rising during the 24-hour sampling. It is unknown whether the increased metabolite 
exposure in end-stage renal disease subjects could give rise to adverse effects but no pharmacological 
activity of the metabolite has been identified. 
Hepatic impairment 
Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) showed higher plasma concentrations of 
lacosamide (approximately 50 % higher AUCnorm). The higher exposure was partly due to a reduced 
renal function in the studied subjects. The decrease in non-renal clearance in the patients of the study 
was estimated to give a 20 % increase in the AUC of lacosamide. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide 
has not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
In a study in elderly men and women including 4 patients > 75 years of age, AUC was about 30 and 50 
% increased compared to young men, respectively. This is partly related to lower body weight. The 
body weight normalized difference is 26 and 23 %, respectively. An increased variability in exposure 
was also observed. The renal clearance of lacosamide was only slightly reduced in elderly subjects in 
this study.  
A general dose reduction is not considered to be necessary unless indicated due to reduced renal 
function (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
The paediatric pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in six placebo-controlled randomised clinical 
studies and five open-label studies in 1655 adult and paediatric patients with epilepsy aged 1 month to 
17 years. Three of these studies were performed in adults, 7 in pediatric patients, and 1 in a mixed 
population. The administered lacosamide doses ranged from 2 to 17.8 mg/kg/day in twice daily intake, 
not to exceed 600 mg/day. 
The typical plasma clearance was estimated to be 0.46 L/h, 0.81 L/h, 1.03 L/h and 1.34 L/h for 
paediatric patients weighing 10 kg, 20 kg, 30 kg and 50 kg respectively. In comparison, plasma 
clearance was estimated at 1.74 L/h in adults (70 kg body weight). 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse pharmacokinetic samples from PGTCS study 
showed a similar exposure in patients with PGTCS and in patients with partial-onset seizures 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicity studies, the plasma concentrations of lacosamide obtained were similar or only 
marginally higher than those observed in patients, which leaves low or non-existing margins to human 
exposure. 
A safety pharmacology study with intravenous administration of lacosamide in anesthetised dogs 
showed transient increases in PR interval and QRS complex duration and decreases in blood pressure 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
most likely due to a cardiodepressant action. These transient changes started in the same concentration 
range as after maximum recommended clinical dosing. In anesthetised dogs and Cynomolgus 
monkeys, at intravenous doses of 15-60 mg/kg, slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, 
atrioventricular block and atrioventricular dissociation were seen. 
In the repeated dose toxicity studies, mild reversible liver changes were observed in rats starting at 
about 3 times the clinical exposure. These changes included an increased organ weight, hypertrophy of 
hepatocytes, increases in serum concentrations of liver enzymes and increases in total cholesterol and 
triglycerides. Apart from the hypertrophy of hepatocytes, no other histopathologic changes were 
observed. 
In reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rodents and rabbits, no teratogenic effects but an 
increase in numbers of stillborn pups and pup deaths in the peripartum period, and slightly reduced 
live litter sizes and pup body weights were observed at maternal toxic doses in rats corresponding to 
systemic exposure levels similar to the expected clinical exposure. Since higher exposure levels could 
not be tested in animals due to maternal toxicity, data are insufficient to fully characterise the 
embryofetotoxic and teratogenic potential of lacosamide. 
Studies in rats revealed that lacosamide and/or its metabolites readily crossed the placental barrier. 
In juvenile rats and dogs, the types of toxicity do not differ qualitatively from those observed in adult 
animals. In juvenile rats, a reduced body weight was observed at systemic exposure levels similar to 
the expected clinical exposure. In juvenile dogs, transient and dose-related CNS clinical signs started 
to be observed at systemic exposure levels below the expected clinical exposure. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose-L 
Hydroxy propyl cellulose (low substituted) 
Silica, colloidal, anhydrous 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Polyethylene glycol 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lecithin (soya)  
Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Lacosamide Accord film-coated tablets are packed in PVC-PVDC/Aluminium blisters.  
The treatment initiation pack contains 4 cartons, each carton with 14 tablets of 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg 
and 200 mg.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
No special requirements for disposal. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
Each vial of 20 ml solution for infusion contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
Excipient with known effect:  
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 3 mg sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless solution, free from any particulate matter. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
Lacosamide Accord is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults, adolescents and 
children from 4 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Posology  
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate formulation and strength according to weight and 
dose.  
Lacosamide therapy can be initiated with either oral or intravenous administration. Solution for 
infusion is an alternative for patients when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. The overall 
duration of treatment with intravenous lacosamide is at the physician’s discretion; there is experience 
from clinical studies with twice daily infusions of lacosamide for up to 5 days in adjunctive therapy. 
Conversion to or from oral and intravenous administration can be done directly without titration. The 
total daily dose and twice daily administration should be maintained. Monitor closely patients with 
known cardiac conduction problems, on concomitant medications that prolong PR interval, or with 
severe cardiac disease (e.g. myocardial ischemia, heart failure) when lacosamide dose is higher than 
400 mg/day (see Method of administration below and section 4.4). 
Lacosamide must be taken twice a day (approximately 12 hours apart). 
The recommended posology for adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age is summarised in 
the following table 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starting dose 
Titration (incremental steps)  Maximum recommended 
dose 
Monotherapy: up to 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: up to 200 
mg twice a day (400 mg/day) 
50 mg twice a day (100 
mg/day) at weekly intervals 
Monotherapy: 50 mg twice a 
day (100 mg/day) or 100 mg 
twice a day (200 mg/day) 
Adjunctive therapy: 50 mg 
twice a day (100 mg/day) 
Alternate initial dosage* (If applicable): 200 mg single loading dose followed by 100 mg twice a 
day (200 mg/day) 
* A loading dose may be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid 
attainment of lacosamide steady state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It 
should be administered under medical supervision with consideration of the potential for increased 
incidence of serious cardiac arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 
4.8). Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status 
epilepticus. 
Children from 2 years of age and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
Starting dose 
Titration (incremental steps)  Maximum recommended 
Monotherapy and Adjunctive 
therapy:  
1 mg/kg twice a day (2 
mg/kg/day) 
1 mg/kg twice a day (2 
mg/kg/day) at weekly intervals 
dose 
Monotherapy:  
- up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 
mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 10 kg 
to < 40 kg  
- up to 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 
mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 40 kg 
to < 50 kg 
Adjunctive therapy:  
- up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 
mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 10 kg 
to < 20 kg  
- up to 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 
mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 20 kg 
to < 30 kg  
- up to 4 mg/kg twice a day (8 
mg/kg/day) in patients ≥ 30 kg 
to < 50 kg 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults 
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) after one week. 
Lacosamide can also be initiated at the dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) based on the 
physician’s assessment of required seizure reduction versus potential side effects. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 300 mg 
twice a day (600 mg/day). 
In patients having reached a dose greater than 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) and who need an 
additional antiepileptic medicinal product, the posology that is recommended for adjunctive therapy 
below should be followed. 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or in the treatment of primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) after one week.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased at weekly 
intervals by 50 mg twice a day (100 mg/day), up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 200 mg 
twice a day (400 mg/day).  
Children from 2 years of age and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
The dose is determined based on body weight. 
Monotherapy (in the treatment of partial-onset seizures) 
The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) which should be increased to an 
initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1 mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually increased until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. In children weighing from 10kg to less 
than 40 kg, a maximum dose of up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In 
children weighing from 40 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is 
recommended.  
The tables below provide examples of volumes of solution for infusion per administration depending 
on prescribed dose and body weight. The precise volume of solution for infusion is to be calculated 
according to the exact body weight of the child. 
Monotherapy doses in the treatment of partial-onset seizures to be taken twice a day for children 
from 2 years of age weighing from 10kg to less than 40 kg  
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Weight 
10 kg 
15 kg 
20 kg 
25 kg 
30 kg 
35 kg 
(1)  
Week 1  Week 2  Week 3 
0.2 ml/kg 
0.1 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting 
dose 
0.3 ml/kg 
(3 mg/kg) 
Week 4  Week 5  Week 6 
0.5 ml/kg 
0.4 ml/kg 
(5 mg/kg) 
(4 mg/kg) 
0.6 ml/kg 
(6 mg/kg)  
Maximum 
recommended dose 
1 ml 
(10 mg) 
1.5 ml 
(15 mg) 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
2.5 ml 
(25 mg) 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
3.5 ml 
(35 mg) 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
7 ml 
(70 mg) 
Volume 
administered 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
4.5 ml 
(45 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
9 ml 
(90 mg) 
10.5 ml 
(105 mg) 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
8 ml 
(80 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
12 ml 
(120 mg) 
14 ml 
(140 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
12.5 ml 
(125 mg) 
15 ml 
(150 mg) 
17.5 ml 
(175 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
9 ml 
(90 mg) 
12 ml 
(120 mg) 
15 ml 
(150 mg) 
18 ml 
(180 mg) 
21 ml 
(210 mg) 
Monotherapy doses in the treatment of partial-onset seizures to be taken twice a day for children and 
adolescents  weighing from 40 kg to less than 50 kg(1) 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting 
dose 
Weight 
40 kg 
4 ml 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
(3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
(4 mg/kg) 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
(5 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose 
Volume 
administered 
8 ml 
36 
12 ml 
16 ml 
20 ml 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 kg 
(40 mg) 
4.5 ml 
(45 mg) 
(80 mg) 
9 ml 
(90 mg) 
(120 mg) 
13.5 ml 
(135 mg) 
(160 mg) 
18 ml 
(180 mg) 
(200 mg) 
22.5 ml 
(225 mg) 
(1) Dosage in adolescents 50 kg or more is the same as in adults. 
Adjunctive therapy (in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures from 4 years of age 
or in the treatment of partial-onset seizures from 2 years of age)  
 The recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) which should be increased to 
an initial therapeutic dose of 2 mg/kg twice a day (4 mg/kg/day) after one week. 
Depending on response and tolerability, the maintenance dose can be further increased by 1 mg/kg 
twice a day (2 mg/kg/day) every week. The dose should be gradually adjusted until the optimum 
response is obtained. The lowest effective dose should be used. Due to an increased clearance 
compared to adults, in children weighing from 10 kg to less than 20 kg, a maximum dose of up to 6 
mg/kg twice a day (12 mg/kg/day) is recommended. In children weighing from 20 to under 30 kg, a 
maximum dose of 5 mg/kg twice a day (10 mg/kg/day) is recommended and in children weighing 
from 30 to under 50 kg, a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg twice a day (8 mg/kg/day) is recommended, 
although in open-label studies (see sections 4.8 and 5.2), a dose up to 6 mg/kg twice a day (12 
mg/kg/day) has been used by a small number of these children from this latter group.   
The tables below provide examples of volumes of solution for infusion per administration depending 
on prescribed dose and body weight. The precise volume of solution for infusion is to be calculated 
according to the exact body weight of the child. 
Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice a day for children from 2 years of age weighing from 10 
kg to less than 20 kg  
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
(1 mg/kg) 
Starting 
dose 
Week 4  Week 5  Week 6 
0.5 ml/kg 
0.4 ml/kg 
(5 mg/kg) 
(4 mg/kg) 
Week 2  Week 3 
0.2 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
0.3 ml/kg 
(3 mg/kg) 
0.6 ml/kg 
(6 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose 
Weight 
10 kg 
15 kg 
1 ml 
(10 mg) 
1.5 ml 
(15 mg) 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
Volume 
administered 
3 ml 
(30 mg) 
4.5 ml 
(45 mg) 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
9 ml 
(90 mg) 
Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice a day for children and adolescents weighing from 20 kg to 
less than 30 kg 
Week 
Prescribed 
dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
(1 mg/kg) Starting 
dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
Weight 
20 kg 
25 kg 
2 ml 
(20 mg) 
2.5 ml 
(25 mg) 
Volume 
administered 
4 ml 
(40 mg) 
5 ml 
(50 mg) 
37 
Week 3  Week 4  Week 5 
0.4 ml/kg 
0.3 ml/kg 
(4 mg/kg) 
(3 mg/kg) 
0.5 ml/kg 
(5 mg/kg) 
Maximum 
recommended 
dose 
6 ml 
(60 mg) 
7.5 ml 
(75 mg) 
8 ml 
(80 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
10 ml 
(100 mg) 
12.5 ml 
(125 mg) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjunctive therapy doses to be taken twice a day for children and adolescents weighing from 30 kg to 
less than 50 kg 
Week 
Prescribe
d dose 
Week 1 
0.1 ml/kg 
(1 mg/kg)  
Starting dose 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
(2 mg/kg) 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
(3 mg/kg) 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
(4 mg/kg)  
Maximum 
recommended dose 
Weight 
30 kg 
35 kg 
40 kg 
45 kg 
3 ml (30 mg) 
3.5 ml (35 mg) 
4 ml (40 mg) 
4.5 ml (45 mg) 
Volume 
administered 
6 ml (60 mg) 
7 ml (70 mg) 
8 ml (80 mg) 
9 ml (90 mg) 
9 ml (90 mg) 
10.5 ml (105 mg) 
12 ml (120 mg) 
13.5 ml (135 mg) 
12 ml (120 mg) 
14 ml (140 mg) 
16 ml (160 mg) 
18 ml (180 mg) 
Initiation of lacosamide treatment with a loading dose (initial monotherapy or conversion to 
monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of 
partial-onset seizures or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic 
seizures) 
In adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more, and adults, Lacosamide treatment may also be 
initiated with a single loading dose of 200 mg, followed approximately 12 hours later by a 100 mg 
twice a day (200 mg/day) maintenance dose regimen. Subsequent dose adjustments should be 
performed according to individual response and tolerability as described above. A loading dose may 
be initiated in patients in situations when the physician determines that rapid attainment of lacosamide 
steady state plasma concentration and therapeutic effect is warranted. It should be administered under 
medical supervision with consideration of the potential for increased incidence of serious cardiac 
arrhythmia and central nervous system adverse reactions (see section 4.8). Administration of a loading 
dose has not been studied in acute conditions such as status epilepticus. 
Discontinuation 
If lacosamide has to be discontinued, it is recommended that the dose is reduced gradually in weekly 
decrements of 4 mg/kg/day (for patients with a body weight less than 50 kg) or 200 mg/day (for 
patients with a body weight of 50 kg or more) for patients who have achieved a dose of lacosamide ≥ 6 
mg/kg/day or ≥ 300 mg/day, respectively. A slower taper in weekly decrements of 2 mg/kg/day or 100 
mg/day can be considered, if medically necessary. In patients who develop serious cardiac arrhythmia, 
clinical benefit/risk assessment should be performed and if needed lacosamide should be discontinued. 
Special populations 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
No dose reduction is necessary in elderly patients. Age associated decreased renal clearance with an 
increase in AUC levels should be considered in elderly patients (see following paragraph ‘renal 
impairment’ and section 5.2). There is limited clinical data in the elderly patients with epilepsy, 
particularly at doses greater than 400 mg/day (see sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in mildly and moderately renally impaired adult and paediatric 
patients (CLCR > 30 ml/min). In paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and in adult patients with 
mild or moderate renal impairment a loading dose of 200 mg may be considered, but further dose 
titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution. In paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or 
more and in adult patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) or with end-stage renal 
disease, a maximum dose of 250 mg/day is recommended and the dose titration should be performed 
with caution. If a loading dose is indicated, an initial dose of 100 mg followed by a 50 mg twice daily 
regimen for the first week should be used. In paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with severe 
renal impairment (CLCR ≤ 30 ml/min) and in those with end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25 % of 
the maximum dose is recommended. For all patients requiring haemodialysis a supplement of up to 
50 % of the divided daily dose directly after the end of haemodialysis is recommended. Treatment of 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with end-stage renal disease should be made with caution as there is little clinical experience 
and accumulation of a metabolite (with no known pharmacological activity). 
Hepatic impairment 
A maximum dose of 300 mg/day is recommended for paediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more and 
for adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. 
The dose titration in these patients should be performed with caution considering co-existing renal 
impairment. In adolescents and adults weighing 50 kg or more, a loading dose of 200 mg may be 
considered, but further dose titration (> 200 mg daily) should be performed with caution. Based on 
data in adults, in paediatric patients weighing less than 50 kg with mild to moderate hepatic 
impairment a reduction of 25 % of the maximum dose should be applied. The pharmacokinetics of 
lacosamide has not been evaluated in severely hepatic impaired patients (see section 5.2). Lacosamide 
should be administered to adult and paediatric patients with severe hepatic impairment only when the 
expected therapeutic benefits are anticipated to outweigh the possible risks. The dose may need to be 
adjusted while carefully observing disease activity and potential side effects in the patient. 
Paediatric population 
Lacosamide is not recommended for use in children below the age of 4 years in the treatment of 
primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures and below the age of 2 years in the treatment of partial-onset 
seizures as there is limited data on safety and efficacy in these age groups 
Loading dose 
Administration of a loading dose has not been studied in children. Use of a loading dose is not 
recommended in adolescents and children weighing less than 50 kg. 
Method of administration 
The solution for infusion is infused over a period of 15 to 60 minutes twice a day. An infusion 
duration of at least 30 minutes for administration > 200 mg per infusion (i.e. > 400 mg/day) is 
preferred. 
Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion can be administered intravenously without further dilution or 
can be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection, glucose 50 mg/ml (5 %) 
solution for injection or lactated Ringer’s solution for injection. 
4.3 
Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Known second- or third-degree atrioventricular (AV) block. 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with antiepileptic medicinal 
products in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled clinical studies of 
antiepileptic medicinal products has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and 
behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known and the available data do not exclude the 
possibility of an increased risk for lacosamide. 
Therefore, patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviours and appropriate 
treatment should be considered. Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek medical 
advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge (see section 4.8). 
Cardiac rhythm and conduction 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose-related prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide have been observed in clinical studies. 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as 
patients with known cardiac conduction problems or severe cardiac disease (e.g. myocardial 
ischaemia/infarction, heart failure, structural heart disease or cardiac sodium channelopathies) or 
patients treated with medicinal products affecting cardiac conduction, including antiarrhythmics and 
sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products (see section 4.5), as well as in elderly 
patients.  
In these patients it should be considered to perform an ECG before a lacosamide dose increase above 
400 mg/day and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state.  
In the placebo-controlled clinical studies of lacosamide in epilepsy patients, atrial fibrillation or flutter 
were not reported; however, both have been reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in 
post-marketing experience. 
In post-marketing experience, AV block (including second degree or higher AV block) has been 
reported. In patients with proarrhythmic conditions, ventricular tachyarrhythmia has been reported. In 
rare cases, these events have led to asystole, cardiac arrest and death in patients with underlying 
proarrhythmic conditions. 
Patients should be made aware of the symptoms of cardiac arrhythmia (e.g. slow, rapid or irregular 
pulse, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting). Patients should be counselled to 
seek immediate medical advice if these symptoms occur.  
Dizziness 
Treatment with lacosamide has been associated with dizziness which could increase the occurrence of 
accidental injury or falls. Therefore, patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are 
familiar with the potential effects of the medicine (see section 4.8). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 2.6 mmol (or 60 mg) sodium per vial, equivalent to 3% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. To be taken into consideration for 
patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
Potential for new onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures 
New onset or worsening of myoclonic seizures has been reported in both adult and paediatric patients 
with PGTCS, in particular during titration. In patients with more than one seizure type, the observed 
benefit of control for one seizure type should be weighed against any observed worsening in another 
seizure type. 
Potential for electro-clinical worsening in specific paediatric epilepsy syndromes 
The safety and efficacy of lacosamide in paediatric patients with epilepsy syndromes in which focal 
and generalised seizures may coexist have not been determined. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be 
associated with PR prolongation (including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products) 
and in patients treated with antiarrhythmics. However, subgroup analysis in clinical studies did not 
identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of 
carbamazepine or lamotrigine.  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro data 
Data generally suggest that lacosamide has a low interaction potential. In vitro studies indicate that the 
enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 are not inhibited by lacosamide at plasma 
concentrations observed in clinical studies. An in vitro study indicated that lacosamide is not 
transported by P-glycoprotein in the intestine. In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of the O-desmethyl metabolite. 
In vivo data 
Lacosamide does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. 
Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of midazolam (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 
200 mg twice a day) but Cmax of midazolam was slightly increased (30 %). Lacosamide did not affect 
the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosamide given 
300 mg twice a day). 
The CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (40 mg once daily) did not give rise to a clinically significant 
change in lacosamide exposure. Thus, moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic 
lacosamide exposure to a clinically relevant extent. 
Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. 
fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g. itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin), which may lead 
to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo but 
are possible based on in vitro data. 
Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin or St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may 
moderately reduce the systemic exposure of lacosamide. Therefore, starting or ending treatment with 
these enzyme inducers should be done with caution. 
Antiepileptic medicinal products 
In interaction studies lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of 
carbamazepine and valproic acid. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by 
carbamazepine and by valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic analyses in different age groups 
estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products known to be enzyme 
inducers (carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, in various doses) decreased the overall systemic 
exposure of lacosamide by 25 % in adults and 17 % in paediatric patients. 
Oral contraceptives 
In an interaction study there was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral 
contraceptives ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Progesterone concentrations were not affected 
when the medicinal products were co-administered. 
Others 
Interaction studies showed that lacosamide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There 
was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and metformin. 
Co-administration of warfarin with lacosamide does not result in a clinically relevant change in the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin. 
Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a 
pharmacodynamic effect cannot be excluded. 
Lacosamide has a low protein binding of less than 15 %. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions 
with other medicinal products through competition for protein binding sites are considered unlikely. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Women of childbearing potential  
Physicians should discuss family planning and contraception with women of childbearing potential 
taking lacosamide (see Pregnancy).  
If a woman decides to become pregnant, the use of lacosamide should be carefully re-evaluated   
Pregnancy 
Risk related to epilepsy and antiepileptic medicinal products in general 
For all antiepileptic medicinal products, it has been shown that in the offspring of treated women with 
epilepsy, the prevalence of malformations is two to three times greater than the rate of approximately 
3 % in the general population. In the treated population, an increase in malformations has been noted 
with polytherapy, however, the extent to which the treatment and/or the illness is responsible has not 
been elucidated. 
Moreover, effective antiepileptic therapy must not be interrupted, since the aggravation of the illness is 
detrimental to both the mother and the foetus. 
Risk related to lacosamide 
There are no adequate data from the use of lacosamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals did not 
indicate any teratogenic effects in rats or rabbits, but embryotoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits 
at maternal toxic doses (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lacosamide should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if the benefit to the mother 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus). If women decide to become pregnant, the use of this 
product should be carefully re-evaluated. 
Breast-feeding 
 Lacosamide is excreted in human breast milk. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded..  It 
is recommended that breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with lacosamide. 
Fertility 
No adverse reactions on male or female fertility or reproduction were observed in rats at doses 
producing plasma exposures (AUC) up to approximately 2 times the plasma AUC in humans at the 
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lacosamide has minor to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Lacosamide 
treatment has been associated with dizziness or blurred vision. 
Accordingly, patients should be advised not to drive or to operate other potentially hazardous 
machinery until they are familiar with the effects of lacosamide on their ability to perform such 
activities. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Based on the analysis of pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in adjunctive therapy in 
1,308 patients with partial-onset seizures, a total of 61.9 % of patients randomised to lacosamide and 
35.2 % of patients randomised to placebo reported at least 1 adverse reaction. The most frequently 
reported adverse reactions (≥ 10 %) with lacosamide treatment were dizziness, headache, nausea and 
diplopia. They were usually mild to moderate in intensity. Some were dose-related and could be 
alleviated by reducing the dose. Incidence and severity of central nervous system (CNS) and 
gastrointestinal (GI) adverse reactions usually decreased over time. 
In all of these controlled clinical studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 12.2 % 
for patients randomised to lacosamide and 1.6 % for patients randomised to placebo. The most 
common adverse reaction resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy was dizziness. 
Incidence of CNS adverse reactions such as dizziness may be higher after a loading dose. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the analysis of data from a non-inferiority monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide 
to carbamazepine controlled release (CR), the most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥ 10 %) for 
lacosamide were headache and dizziness. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 
10.6 % for patients treated with lacosamide and 15.6 % for patients treated with carbamazepine CR. 
The safety profile of lacosamide reported in a study conducted in patients aged 4 years and older with 
idiopathic generalised epilepsy with primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was consistent 
with the safety profile reported from the pooled placebo-controlled clinical studies in partial-onset 
seizures. Additional adverse reactions reported in PGTCS patients were myoclonic epilepsy (2.5 % in 
the lacosamide-group and 0 % in the placebo-group) and ataxia (3.3 % in the lacosamide-group and 
0 % in the placebo-group). The most frequently reported adverse reactions were dizziness and 
somnolence. The most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation of lacosamide therapy 
were dizziness and suicidal ideation. The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 9.1 % in 
the lacosamide group and 4.1 % in the placebo group. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below shows the frequencies of adverse reactions which have been reported in clinical 
studies and post-marketing experience. The frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) and not known (frequency cannot be 
estimated from available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness. 
System organ class  Very 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Agranulocytosis(1) 
Drug reaction 
with eosinophilia 
and systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS) (1,2) 
Convulsion 
Drug 
hypersensitivity(1) 
Aggression 
Agitation(1) 
Euphoric mood(1) 
Psychotic disorder(1) 
Suicide attempt (1) 
Suicidal ideation 
Hallucination (1) 
Syncope(2) 
Coordination 
abnormal 
Dyskinesia 
common 
Blood and 
lymphatic disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Depression 
Confusional state 
Insomnia(1) 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Myoclonic 
seizures(3) 
Ataxia 
Balance disorder 
Memory 
impairment 
Cognitive disorder 
Somnolence  
Tremor  
Nystagmus 
Hypoesthesia 
Dysarthria 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Paraesthesia 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Diplopia  Vision blurred 
Vertigo 
Tinnitus 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class  Very 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia(1)  
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome(1) 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis(1) 
Atrioventricular 
block(1,2) 
Bradycardia(1,2) 
Atrial Fibrillation 
(1,2) 
Atrial Flutter (1,2) 
Liver function test 
abnormal(2)  
Hepatic enzyme 
increased  
(> 2x ULN)(1) 
Angioedema(1) 
Urticaria(1) 
Erythema(4) 
Cardiac disorders 
common 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Flatulence  
Dyspepsia Dry 
mouth Diarrhoea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Pruritus 
Rash(1) 
Muscle spasms 
Gait disturbance 
Asthenia  
Fatigue  
Irritability  
Feeling drunk 
Injection site pain or 
discomfort (4) 
Irritation(4) 
Fall 
Skin laceration 
Contusion 
(1) Adverse reactions reported in post marketing experience. 
(2) See Description of selected adverse reactions. 
(3) Reported in PGTCS studies. 
(4) Local adverse reactions associated with intravenous administration. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The use of lacosamide is associated with dose-related increase in the PR interval. Adverse reactions 
associated with PR interval prolongation (e.g. atrioventricular block, syncope, bradycardia) may occur. 
In adjunctive clinical studies in epilepsy patients the incidence rate of reported first-degree AV Block 
is uncommon, 0.7 %, 0 %, 0.5 % and 0 % for lacosamide 200 mg, 400 mg, 600 mg or placebo, 
respectively. No second- or higher degree AV Block was seen in these studies. However, cases with 
second- and third-degree AV Block associated with lacosamide treatment have been reported in 
post-marketing experience. In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine 
CR the extent of increase in PR interval was comparable between lacosamide and carbamazepine. 
The incidence rate for syncope reported in pooled adjunctive therapy clinical studies is uncommon and 
did not differ between lacosamide (n=944) treated epilepsy patients (0.1 %) and placebo (n=364) 
treated epilepsy patients (0.3 %). In the monotherapy clinical study comparing lacosamide to 
carbamazepine CR, syncope was reported in 7/444 (1.6 %) lacosamide patients and in 1/442 (0.2 %) 
carbamazepine CR patients. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atrial fibrillation or flutter were not reported in short term clinical studies; however, both have been 
reported in open-label epilepsy studies and in post-marketing experience. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed in placebo-controlled clinical studies  with 
lacosamide in adult patients with partial-onset seizures who were taking 1 to 3 concomitant 
antiepileptic medicinal products. Elevations of ALT to ≥ 3x ULN occurred in 0.7 % (7/935) of 
lacosamide patients and 0 % (0/356) of placebo patients. 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions 
Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (also known as Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms, DRESS) have been reported in patients treated with some antiepileptic medicinal products. 
These reactions are variable in expression but typically present with fever and rash and can be 
associated with involvement of different organ systems. If multiorgan hypersensitivity reaction is 
suspected, lacosamide should be discontinued. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile of lacosamide in placebo-controlled (255 patients from 1 month to less than 4 years 
of age and 343 patients from 4 years to less than 17 years of age) and in open-label clinical studies 
(847 patients from 1 month to less than or equal to 18 years of age) in adjunctive therapy in paediatric 
patients with partial-onset seizures was consistent with the safety profile observed in adults. As data 
available in paediatric patients younger than 2 years of age is limited, lacosamide is not indicated in 
this age range. The additional adverse reactions observed in the paediatric population were pyrexia, 
nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, decreased appetite, abnormal behaviour and lethargy. Somnolence was 
reported more frequently in the paediatric population (≥ 1/10) compared to the adult population (≥ 
1/100 to < 1/10) 
Elderly population 
In the monotherapy study comparing lacosamide to carbamazepine CR, the types of adverse reactions 
related to lacosamide in elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age) appear to be similar to that observed in 
patients less than 65 years of age. However, a higher incidence (≥ 5 % difference) of fall, diarrhoea 
and tremor has been reported in elderly patients compared to younger adult patients. The most 
frequent cardiac-related adverse reaction reported in elderly compared to the younger adult population 
was first-degree AV block. This was reported with lacosamide in 4.8 % (3/62) in elderly patients 
versus 1.6 % (6/382) in younger adult patients. The discontinuation rate due to adverse events 
observed with lacosamide was 21.0 % (13/62) in elderly patients versus 9.2 % (35/382) in younger 
adult patients. These differences between elderly and younger adult patients were similar to those 
observed in the active comparator group. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
Symptoms 
Symptoms observed after an accidental or intentional overdose of lacosamide are primarily associated 
with CNS and gastrointestinal system. 
  The types of adverse reactions experienced by patients exposed to doses above 400 mg up to 
800 mg were not clinically different from those of patients administered recommended doses of 
lacosamide. 
  Reactions reported after an intake of more than 800 mg are dizziness, nausea, vomiting, seizures 
(generalised tonic-clonic seizures, status epilepticus). Cardiac conduction disorders, shock and 
45 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
coma have also been observed. Fatalities have been reported in patients following an intake of 
acute single overdose of several grams of lacosamide. 
Management 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with lacosamide. Treatment of lacosamide overdose should 
include general supportive measures and may include haemodialysis if necessary (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX18 
Mechanism of action 
The active substance, lacosamide (R-2-acetamido-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropionamide) is a 
functionalised amino acid. 
The precise mechanism by which lacosamide exerts its antiepileptic effect in humans remains to be 
fully elucidated. In vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that lacosamide selectively enhances 
slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable 
neuronal membranes. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Lacosamide protected against seizures in a broad range of animal models of partial and primary 
generalised seizures and delayed kindling development. 
In non-clinical experiments lacosamide in combination with levetiracetam, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate or gabapentin showed synergistic or additive anticonvulsant effects. 
Clinical efficacy and safety (partial-onset seizures) 
Adult population 
Monotherapy 
Efficacy of lacosamide as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, 
non-inferiority comparison to carbamazepine CR in 886 patients 16 years of age or older with newly 
or recently diagnosed epilepsy. The patients had to present with unprovoked partial-onset seizures 
with or without secondary generalisation. The patients were randomised to carbamazepine CR or 
lacosamide, provided as tablets, in a 1:1 ratio. The dose was based on dose-response and ranged from 
400 to 1,200 mg/day for carbamazepine CR and from 200 to 600 mg/day for lacosamide. The duration 
of the treatment was up to 121 weeks depending on the response. 
The estimated 6-month seizure freedom rates were 89.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 91.1 % 
for carbamazepine CR treated patients using the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis method. The adjusted 
absolute difference between treatments was -1.3 % (95 % CI: -5.5, 2.8). The Kaplan-Meier estimates 
of 12-month seizure freedom rates were 77.8 % for lacosamide-treated patients and 82.7 % for 
carbamazepine CR treated patients. 
The 6-month seizure freedom rates in elderly patients of 65 and above (62 patients in lacosamide, 
57 patients in carbamazepine CR) were similar between both treatment groups. The rates were also 
similar to those observed in the overall population. In the elderly population, the maintenance 
lacosamide dose was 200 mg/day in 55 patients (88.7 %), 400 mg/day in 6 patients (9.7 %) and the 
dose was escalated to over 400 mg/day in 1 patient (1.6 %). 
Conversion to monotherapy 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy and safety of lacosamide in conversion to monotherapy has been assessed in a historical-
controlled, multicentre, double-blind, randomised trial. In this study, 425 patients aged 16 to 70 years 
with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures taking stable doses of 1 or 2 marketed antiepileptic medicinal 
products were randomised to be converted to lacosamide monotherapy (either 400 mg/day or 
300 mg/day in a 3:1 ratio). In treated patients who completed titration and started withdrawing 
antiepileptic medicinal products (284 and 99 respectively), monotherapy was maintained in 71.5 % 
and 70.7 % of patients respectively for 57-105 days (median 71 days), over the targeted observation 
period of 70 days. 
Adjunctive therapy 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy at recommended doses (200 mg/day, 400 mg/day) 
was established in 3 multicenter, randomised, placebo-controlled clinical studies with a 12-week 
maintenance period. Lacosamide 600 mg/day was also shown to be effective in controlled adjunctive 
therapy  studies, although the efficacy was similar to 400 mg/day and patients were less likely to 
tolerate this dose because of CNS- and gastrointestinal-related adverse reactions. Thus, the 
600 mg/day dose is not recommended. The maximum recommended dose is 400 mg/day. These  
studies, involving 1,308 patients with a history of an average of 23 years of partial-onset seizures, 
were designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lacosamide when administered concomitantly 
with 1-3 antiepileptic medicinal products in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation. Overall the proportion of subjects with a 50 % reduction in seizure 
frequency was 23 %, 34 %, and 40 % for placebo, lacosamide 200 mg/day and lacosamide 
400 mg/day. 
The pharmacokinetics and safety of a single loading dose of intravenous lacosamide were determined 
in a multicenter, open-label study designed to assess the safety and tolerability of rapid initiation of 
lacosamide using a single intravenous loading dose (including 200 mg) followed by twice daily oral 
dosing (equivalent to the intravenous dose) as adjunctive therapy in adult subjects 16 to 60 years of 
age with partial-onset seizures. 
Paediatric population 
Partial-onset seizures have a similar pathophysiology and clinical expression in children from 2 years 
of age and in adults. The efficacy of lacosamide in children aged 2 years and older has been 
extrapolated from data of adolescents and adults with partial-onset seizures, for whom a similar 
response was expected provided the paediatric dose adaptations are established (see section 4.2) and 
safety has been demonstrated (see section 4.8). 
The efficacy supported by the extrapolation principle stated above was confirmed by a double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-controlled clinical study. The study consisted of an 8-week baseline period 
followed by a 6-week titration period. Eligible patients on a stable dose regimen of 1 to ≤ 3 
antiepileptic medicinal products, who still experienced at least 2 partial onset seizures during the 4 
weeks prior to screening with seizure-free phase no longer than 21 days in the 8-week period prior to 
entry into the baseline period, were randomised to receive either placebo (n=172) or lacosamide 
(n=171). 
Dosing was initiated at a dose of 2 mg/kg/day in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 100 mg/day in 
subjects weighing 50 kg or more in 2 divided doses. During the titration period, lacosamide doses 
were adjusted in 1or 2 mg/kg/day increments in subjects weighing less than 50 kg or 50 or 100 mg/day 
in subjects weighing 50 kg or more at weekly intervals to achieve the target maintenance period dose 
range. 
Subjects must have achieved the minimum target dose for their body weight category for the final 
3 days of the titration period to be eligible for entry into the 10-week maintenance period. Subjects 
were to remain on stable lacosamide dose throughout the maintenance period or were withdrawn and 
entered in the blinded taper period. 
Statistically significant (p=0.0003) and clinically relevant reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency 
per 28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was observed between the lacosamide and the 
placebo group. The percent reduction over placebo based on analysis of covariance was 31.72 % 
(95 % CI: 16.342, 44.277). 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the proportion of subjects with at least a 50 % reduction in partial-onset seizure frequency per 
28 days from baseline to the maintenance period was 52.9 % in the lacosamide group compared with 
33.3 % in the placebo group. 
The quality of life assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory indicated that subjects in both 
lacosamide and placebo groups had a similar and stable health-related quality of life during the entire 
treatment period. 
Clinical efficacy and safety (primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures) 
The efficacy of lacosamide as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years of age and older with idiopathic 
generalized epilepsy experiencing primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTCS) was established 
in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical study. 
The study consisted of a 12-week historical baseline period, a 4-week prospective baseline period and 
a 24- week treatment period (which included a 6-week titration period and an 18-week maintenance 
period). Eligible patients on a stable dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptic drugs experiencing at least 3 
documented PGTCS during the 16-week combined baseline period were randomized 1 to 1 to receive 
lacosamide or placebo (patients in the full analysis set: lacosamide n=118, placebo n=121; of them 8 
patients in the ≥ 4 to < 12 years age group and 16 patients in the ≥ 12 to < 18 years range were treated 
with Lacosamide and 9 and 16 patients, respectively with placebo). 
Patients were titrated up to the target maintenance period dose of 12 mg/kg/day in patients weighing 
less than 30 kg, 8 mg/kg/day in patients weighing from 30 to less than 50 kg or 400 mg/day in patients 
weighing 50 kg or more. 
Efficacy variable 
Parameter 
Time to second PGTCS 
Median (days) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
Hazard Ratio 
95 % CI 
p-value 
Seizure freedom 
Placebo 
N=121 
77.0 
49.0, 128.0 
Lacosamide 
N=118 
- 
- 
0.540 
0.377, 0.774 
< 0.001 
Stratified Kaplan-Meier estimate (%) 
95 % CI 
Lacosamide – Placebo 
95 % CI 
p-value 
17.2 
10.4, 24.0 
31.3 
22.8, 39.9 
14.1 
3.2, 25.1 
0.011 
Note: For the lacosamide group, the median time to second PGTCS could not be estimated by Kaplan- 
Meier methods because ˃ 50% of patients did not experience a second PGTCS by Day 166. 
The findings in the paediatric subgroup were consistent with the results of the overall population for 
the primary, secondary and other efficacy endpoints. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
After intravenous administration, Cmax is reached at the end of infusion. The plasma concentration 
increases proportionally with dose after oral (100-800 mg) and intravenous (50-300 mg) 
administration. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 0.6 L/kg. Lacosamide is less than 15 % bound to plasma 
proteins. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
95 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as lacosamide and metabolites. The metabolism of 
lacosamide has not been completely characterised. 
The major compounds excreted in urine are unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40 % of the dose) 
and its O-desmethyl metabolite less than 30 %. 
A polar fraction proposed to be serine derivatives accounted for approximately 20 % in urine, but was 
detected only in small amounts (0-2 %) in human plasma of some subjects. Small amounts (0.5-2 %) 
of additional metabolites were found in the urine. 
In vitro data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of 
the O-desmethyl metabolite but the main contributing isoenzyme has not been confirmed in vivo. No 
clinically relevant difference in lacosamide exposure was observed comparing its pharmacokinetics in 
extensive metabolisers (EMs, with a functional CYP2C19) and poor metabolisers (PMs, lacking a 
functional CYP2C19). Furthermore an interaction study with omeprazole (CYP2C19-inhibitor) 
demonstrated no clinically relevant changes in lacosamide plasma concentrations indicating that the 
importance of this pathway is minor. The plasma concentration of O-desmethyl-lacosamide is 
approximately 15 % of the concentration of lacosamide in plasma. This major metabolite has no 
known pharmacological activity. 
Elimination 
Lacosamide is primarily eliminated from the systemic circulation by renal excretion and 
biotransformation. After oral and intravenous administration of radiolabeled lacosamide, 
approximately 95 % of radioactivity administered was recovered in the urine and less than 0.5 % in the 
faeces. The elimination half-life of lacosamide is approximately 13 hours. The pharmacokinetics is 
dose-proportional and constant over time, with low intra- and inter-subject variability. Following twice 
daily dosing, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved after a 3 day period. The plasma 
concentration increases with an accumulation factor of approximately 2. 
A single loading dose of 200 mg approximates steady-state concentrations comparable to 100 mg 
twice daily oral administration. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Gender 
Clinical studies indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma 
concentrations of lacosamide. 
Renal impairment 
The AUC of lacosamide was increased by approximately 30 % in mildly and moderately and 60 % in 
severely renal impaired patients and patients with end-stage renal disease requiring haemodialysis 
compared to healthy subjects, whereas Cmax was unaffected. 
Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by haemodialysis. Following a 4-hour haemodialysis 
treatment, AUC of lacosamide is reduced by approximately 50 %. Therefore, dosage supplementation 
following haemodialysis is recommended (see section 4.2). The exposure of the O-desmethyl 
metabolite was several-fold increased in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. In 
absence of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, the levels were increased and 
continuously rising during the 24-hour sampling. It is unknown whether the increased metabolite 
exposure in end-stage renal disease subjects could give rise to adverse effects but no pharmacological 
activity of the metabolite has been identified. 
Hepatic impairment 
Subjects with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B) showed higher plasma concentrations of 
lacosamide (approximately 50 % higher AUCnorm). The higher exposure was partly due to a reduced 
renal function in the studied subjects. The decrease in non-renal clearance in the patients of the study 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was estimated to give a 20 % increase in the AUC of lacosamide. The pharmacokinetics of lacosamide 
has not been evaluated in severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
In a study in elderly men and women including 4 patients > 75 years of age, AUC was about 30 and 
50 % increased compared to young men, respectively. This is partly related to lower body weight. The 
body weight normalized difference is 26 and 23 %, respectively. An increased variability in exposure 
was also observed. The renal clearance of lacosamide was only slightly reduced in elderly subjects in 
this study. 
A general dose reduction is not considered to be necessary unless indicated due to reduced renal 
function (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
The paediatric pharmacokinetic profile of lacosamide was determined in a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis using sparse plasma concentration data obtained in six placebo-controlled randomised clinical 
studies and five open-label studies in 1655 adult and paediatric patients with epilepsy aged 1 month to 
17 years. Three of these studies were performed in adults, 7 in pediatric patients, and 1 in a mixed 
population. The administered lacosamide doses ranged from 2 to 17.8 mg/kg/day in twice daily intake, 
not to exceed 600 mg/day.The typical plasma clearance was estimated to be 0.46 L/h, 0.81 L/h, 1.03 
L/h and 1.34 L/h for paediatric patients weighing 10 kg, 20 kg, 30 kg and 50 kg respectively. In 
comparison, plasma clearance was estimated at 1.74 L/h in adults (70 kg body weight). Population 
pharmacokinetic analysis using sparse pharmacokinetic samples from PGTCS study showed a similar 
exposure in patients with PGTCS and in patients with partial-onset seizures. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicity studies, the plasma concentrations of lacosamide obtained were similar or only 
marginally higher than those observed in patients, which leaves low or non-existing margins to human 
exposure. 
A safety pharmacology study with intravenous administration of lacosamide in anesthetised dogs 
showed transient increases in PR interval and QRS complex duration and decreases in blood pressure 
most likely due to a cardiodepressant action. These transient changes started in the same concentration 
range as after maximum recommended clinical dosing. In anesthetised dogs and Cynomolgus 
monkeys, at intravenous doses of 15-60 mg/kg, slowing of atrial and ventricular conductivity, 
atrioventricular block and atrioventricular dissociation were seen. 
In the repeated dose toxicity studies, mild reversible liver changes were observed in rats starting at 
about 3 times the clinical exposure. These changes included an increased organ weight, hypertrophy of 
hepatocytes, increases in serum concentrations of liver enzymes and increases in total cholesterol and 
triglycerides. Apart from the hypertrophy of hepatocytes, no other histopathologic changes were 
observed. 
In reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rodents and rabbits, no teratogenic effects but an 
increase in numbers of stillborn pups and pup deaths in the peripartum period, and slightly reduced 
live litter sizes and pup body weights were observed at maternal toxic doses in rats corresponding to 
systemic exposure levels similar to the expected clinical exposure. Since higher exposure levels could 
not be tested in animals due to maternal toxicity, data are insufficient to fully characterise the 
embryofetotoxic and teratogenic potential of lacosamide. 
Studies in rats revealed that lacosamide and/or its metabolites readily crossed the placental barrier. 
In juvenile rats and dogs, the types of toxicity do not differ qualitatively from those observed in adult 
animals. In juvenile rats, a reduced body weight was observed at systemic exposure levels similar to 
the expected clinical exposure. In juvenile dogs, transient and dose-related CNS clinical signs started 
to be observed at systemic exposure levels below the expected clinical exposure. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C 
for product mixed with the diluents mentioned in 6.6 and stored in glass or PVC bags. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and 
validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Colourless type I moulded glass vial with a bromobutyl rubber closure.  
Packs of 1x20 ml and 5x20 ml. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Product with particulate matter or discolouration should not be used. 
This medicinal product is for single use only, any unused solution should be discarded. 
Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion was found to be physically compatible and chemically stable 
when mixed with the following diluents for at least 24 hours and stored in glass or PVC bags at 
temperatures up to 25°C. 
Diluents: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection 
glucose 50 mg/ml (5 %) solution for injection 
lactated ringer’s solution for injection. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a Planta,  
08039 Barcelona  
Spain 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1230/026 
EU/1/17/1230/027 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 November 2021 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT   
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Laboratori Fundacio Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca 
08040 Barcelona 
SPAIN 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited (For Lacosamide solution for infusion only) 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, Paola  
PLA 3000, Malta 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required  pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP.  
An updated RMP should be submitted 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result  
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablet 
56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/001 
EU/1/17/1230/002 
EU/1/17/1230/003 
EU/1/17/1230/004 
EU/1/17/1230/017 
EU/1/17/1230/018 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number}  
NN: {number} 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister label 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablet 
56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/005 
EU/1/17/1230/006 
EU/1/17/1230/007 
EU/1/17/1230/008 
EU/1/17/1230/019 
EU/1/17/1230/020 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number}  
NN: {number} 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister label 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablet 
56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and  reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/009 
EU/1/17/1230/010 
EU/1/17/1230/011 
EU/1/17/1230/012 
EU/1/17/1230/021 
EU/1/17/1230/022 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number}  
NN: {number} 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister label 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
14 x 1 film-coated tablet 
56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/013 
EU/1/17/1230/014 
EU/1/17/1230/015 
EU/1/17/1230/016 
EU/1/17/1230/023 
EU/1/17/1230/024 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number}  
NN: {number} 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister label 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Outer carton - treatment initiation pack containing 4 cartons of 14 film-coated tablets 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
1 film-coated tablet contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
1 film-coated tablet contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
1 film-coated tablet contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
1 film-coated tablet contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Treatment initiation pack  
Each pack of 56 film-coated tablets for a 4-week treatment schedule contains: 
14 film-coated tablets of Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
14 film-coated tablets of Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
14 film-coated tablets of Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
14 film-coated tablets of Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Intermediate Carton  
Carton  14 tablets – week 1 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 film-coated tablet contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. 
Week 1 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable  
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Blister label – week 1 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
Week 1 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Intermediate Carton  
Carton  14 tablets – week 2 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 film-coated tablet contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. 
Week 2 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Blister label – week 2 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
Week 2 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Intermediate Carton  
Carton  14 tablets – week 3 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 film-coated tablet contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya).  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. 
Week 3 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Blister label – week 3 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
Week 3 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING   
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
Intermediate Carton  
Carton  14 tablets – week 4 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
1 film-coated tablet contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This medicinal product contains lecithin (soya). 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets. 
Week 4 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/025 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK ONLY 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister label – week 4 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
5. 
OTHER 
Week 4 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
1 vial of 20 ml contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 Vial x 20 ml solution for infusion 
5 Vial x 20 ml solution for infusion 
200 mg/20 ml  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use 
For single use only 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a Planta,  
08039 Barcelona  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1230/026 
EU/1/17/1230/027 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lacosamide Accord 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
lacosamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of solution contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
1 vial of 20 ml contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
200 mg/20 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. Read the package leaflet before use. 
IV use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING (S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n,  
Edifici Est, 6a Planta,  
08039 Barcelona  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you take Lacosamide Accord  
How to take Lacosamide Accord  
Possible side effects 
How to store Lacosamide Accord  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What Lacosamide Accord is 
Lacosamide Accord contains lacosamide. This belongs to a group of medicines called “antiepileptic 
medicines”. These medicines are used to treat epilepsy. 
  You have been given this medicine to lower the number of fits (seizures) you have. 
What Lacosamide Accord is used for 
  Lacosamide Accord  is used: 
o  on its own and in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents  and 
children aged 2 years and older to treat a certain type of epilepsy characterised by the 
occurrence of partial-onset seizure with or without secondary generalisation. In this type of 
epilepsy, fits first affect only one side of your brain. However, these may then spread to 
larger areas on both sides of your brain.  
in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents and children  aged 4 
years and older to treat primary generalised tonic- clonic seizures (major fits, including loss 
of consciousness) in patients with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the type of epilepsy that 
is thought to have a genetic cause). 
o 
2. 
 What you need to know before you take Lacosamide Accord  
Do not take Lacosamide Accord  
 
if you are allergic to lacosamide, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you are not sure whether you are allergic, please discuss with your doctor. 
if you are allergic to peanut or soya. 
if you have a certain type of heart beat problem called second- or third-degree AV block. 
 
 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Do not take Lacosamide Accord if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Lacosamide Accord if: 
  you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself. A small number of people being treated with 
antiepileptic medicinal products such as lacosamide have had thoughts of harming or killing 
themselves. If you have any of these thoughts at any time, tell your doctor straight away. 
  you have a heart problem that affects the beat of your heart and you often have a particulary 
slow, fast or irregular heart beat  (such as AV block, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter).  
    you have severe heart disease such as heart failure or have had a heart attack.  
    you are often dizzy or fall over. Lacosamide Accord may make you dizzy- this could increase 
the risk of accidental injury or a fall. This means that- you should take care until you are used 
to the effects of this medicine. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord, talk to your doctor if you are experiencing a new type of seizure 
or worsening of existing seizures. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord and you are experiencing symptoms of abnormal heartbeat (such 
as slow, rapid or irregular heartbeat, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting), 
seek medical advice immediately (see section 4). 
Children  
Lacosamide Accord is not recommended for children aged under 2 years with epilepsy characterised 
by the occurrence of partial-onset seizure and not recommended for children aged under 4 years with 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures. This is because we do not yet know whether it will work 
and whether it is safe for children in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lacosamide Accord  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.  
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines that affect 
your heart - this is because Lacosamide Accord can also affect your heart: 
  medicines to treat heart problems;  
  medicines which can increase the “PR interval” on a scan of the heart (ECG or 
electrocardiogram) such as medicines for epilepsy or pain called carbamazepine, lamotrigine 
or pregabalin;   
  medicines used to treat certain types of irregular heart beat or heart failure.  
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord.  
Also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines - this is because 
they may increase or decrease the effect of Lacosamide Accord on your body: 
  medicines for fungal infections such as fluconazole, itraconazole or ketoconazole;  
  medicines for HIV such as ritonavir;  
  medicines used to treat bacterial infections such as clarithromycin or rifampicin;  
  a herbal medicine used to treat mild anxiety and depression called St.John’s wort. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord. 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide Accord with alcohol 
As a safety precaution do not take Lacosamide Accord with alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Fertile women should discuss the use of contraceptives with the doctor. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
It is not recommended to take Lacosamide Accord if you are pregnant, as the effects of lacosamide on 
pregnancy and the unborn baby are not known.  It is not recommended to breast-feed your baby while 
taking Lacosamide Accord, as Lacosamide Accord passes into breast milk. Seek advice immediately 
from your doctor if you get pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. They will help you decide if 
you should take Lacosamide Accord or not. 
Do not stop treatment without talking to your doctor first as this could increase your fits (seizures). A 
worsening of your disease can also harm your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, cycle or use any tools or machines until you know how this medicine affects you. This is 
because Lacosamide Accord may make you feel dizzy or cause blurred vision.  
Lacosamide Accord contains soya lecithin. 
If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not use this medicinal product.  
3. 
How to take Lacosamide Accord  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. Other form(s) of this medicine may be more suitable for children; 
ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
Taking Lacosamide Accord 
    Take Lacosamide Accord twice each day- approximately 12 hours apart.  Try to take it at 
about the same time each day. 
    Swallow the Lacosamide Accord tablet with a glass of water. 
    You may take Lacosamide Accord with or without food.  
You will usually start by taking a low dose each day and your doctor will slowly increase this over a 
number of weeks. When you reach the dose that works for you, this is called the “maintenance dose”, 
you then take the same amount each day. Lacosamide Accord is used as a long term treatment. You 
should continue to take Lacosamide Accord until your doctor tells you to stop. 
How much to take 
Listed below are the normal recommended doses of Lacosamide Accord for different age groups and 
weights. Your doctor may prescribe a different dose if you have problems with your kidneys or with 
your liver. 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more and adults 
When you take Lacosamide Accord on its own 
The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Accord is 50 mg twice a day.  
Your doctor may also prescribe a starting dose of 100 mg of Lacosamide Accord twice a day.  
Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be until you reach a 
maintenance dose between 100 mg and 300 mg twice a day.   
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When you take Lacosamide Accord with other antiepileptic medicines 
The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Accord is 50 mg twice a day.  
Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be until you reach a 
maintenance dose between 100 mg and 200 mg twice a day.  
If you weigh 50 kg or more, your doctor may decide to start Lacosamide Accord treatment with a 
single “loading” dose of 200 mg. You would then start your ongoing maintenance dose 12 hours later.  
Children and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
- In the treatment of partial-onset seizure: Observe that Lacosamide Accord is not recommended for 
children under 2 years of age. 
- In the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures: Observe that Lacosamide Accord is not 
recommended for children under 4 years of age. 
The dose depends on their body weight. They usually start treatment with the syrup and only change to 
tablets if they are able to take tablets and get the correct dose with the different tablet strengths. The 
doctor will prescribe the formulation that is best suited to them. 
If you take more Lacosamide Accord than you should  
If you have taken more Lacosamide Accord than you should, contact your doctor immediately. Do not 
try to drive. 
You may experience:  
  dizziness;  
  feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting);  
  fits (seizures), heart beat problems such a slow, fast or irregular heart beat, coma or a fall in 
blood pressure with rapid heartbeat and sweating. 
If you forget to take Lacosamide Accord 
    If you have missed a dose within the first 6 hours of the scheduled dose, take it as soon as you 
remember.  
    If you have missed a dose beyond the first 6 hours of the scheduled dose, do not take the 
missed tablet anymore. Instead take Lacosamide Accord at the next time that you would 
normally take it.  
    Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Lacosamide Accord 
  Do not stop taking Lacosamide Accord without talking to your doctor, as your epilepsy may 
come back again or become worse.  
  If your doctor decides to stop your treatment with Lacosamide Accord , they will tell you how 
to decrease the dose step by step. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Nervous system side effects such as dizziness may be higher after a single “loading” dose. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you get any of the following: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
 
 
Headache; 
Feeling dizzy or sick (nausea); 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Double vision (diplopia). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
 
 
 
Short jerks of a muscle or group of muscles (myoclonic seizures); 
Difficulties in coordinating your movements or walking; 
Problems in keeping your balance, shaking (tremor), tingling (paresthesia) or muscle spasms, 
falling easily and getting bruises; 
Troubles with your memory, thinking or finding words, confusion; 
Rapid and uncontrollable movements of the eyes (nystagmus), blurred vision;  
A spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling drunk;  
Being sick (vomiting), dry mouth, constipation, indigestion, excessive gas in the stomach or 
bowel, diarrhoea; 
Decreased feeling or sensitivity, difficulty in articulating words, disturbance in attention 
Noise in the ear such as buzzing, ringing or whistling 
Irritability, trouble sleeping, depression;  
Sleepiness, tiredness or weakness (asthenia);  
Itching, rash. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
 
Slow heart rate, palpitations, irregular pulse or other changes in the electrical activity of your 
heart (conduction disorder); 
  Exaggerated feeling of wellbeing, seeing and/or hearing things which are not there; 
  Allergic reaction to medicine intake, hives; 
Blood tests may show abnormal liver function, liver injury; 
Thoughts of harming or killing yourself or attempting suicide: tell your doctor straight away; 
Feeling angry or agitated; 
Abnormal thinking or losing touch with reality; 
Serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face, throat, hands, feet, ankles, or lower 
legs; 
Fainting. 
 
Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesia). 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from available data 
 
 
Abnormal rapid heartbeat (ventricular tachyarrhythmia);  
A sore throat, high temperature and getting more infections than usual. Blood tests may show 
a severe decrease in a specific class of white blood cells (agranulocytosis); 
A serious skin reaction which may include a high temperature and other flu-like symptoms, a 
rash on the face, extended rash, swollen glands (enlarged lymph nodes). Blood tests may show 
increased levels of liver enzymes and a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia);  
A widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes 
and genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in 
more than 30 % of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis); 
Convulsion. 
 
 
 
Additional side effects in children  
The additional side effects in  children were runny nose (nasopharyngitis), fever (pyrexia), sore throat 
(pharyngitis), eating less than usual (decreased appetite), changes in behaviour, not acting like 
themselves (abnormal behavior) and lacking in energy (lethargy). Feeling sleepy (somnolence) is a 
very common side effect in children and may affect more than 1 in 10 children. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lacosamide Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lacosamide Accord contains 
The active substance is lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 50 mg contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 100 mg contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 150 mg contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 200 mg contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: Microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxy propyl cellulose-L, hydroxy propyl cellulose (low 
substituted), silica colloidal anhydrous, crospovidone and magnesium stearate. 
Film-coat: Polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, talc, titanium dioxide (E171), lecithin (soya) and 
colorants* 
* The colorants are 
50 mg tablet: Iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide black (E172), indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
100 mg tablet: Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
150 mg tablet: Iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide black (E172), iron oxide yellow (E172) 
200 mg tablet: Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
What Lacosamide Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg are pink, oval, approximately 10.3 x 4.8 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” 
on one side and “50” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg are dark yellow, oval, approximately 13.0 x 6.0 mm, coated tablets, 
debossed “L” on one side and “100” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg are salmon, oval, approximately 15.0 x 6.9 mm, coated tablets, debossed 
“L” on one side and “150” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg are blue, oval, approximately 16.4 x 7.6 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” 
on one side and “200” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord is available in packs of 14, 56, 60 or 168 film-coated tablets.  
The 14 x 1 or 56 x 1 tablet pack is available as perforated unit dose PVC-PVDC/Aluminium blisters 
sealed with an aluminium foil, all other packs are available with standard PVC-PVDC/Aluminium 
blisters sealed with an aluminium foil. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
or 
LABORATORI FUNDACIÓ DAU 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca, Barcelona, 
08040 Barcelona, Spain 
or 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg film-coated tablets 
lacosamide 
The treatment initiation pack is only suitable in adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or 
more and in adults. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
 
What is in this leaflet  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you take Lacosamide Accord  
How to take Lacosamide Accord  
Possible side effects 
How to store Lacosamide Accord  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What Lacosamide Accord is 
Lacosamide Accord contains lacosamide. This belongs to a group of medicines called “antiepileptic 
medicines”. These medicines are used to treat epilepsy. 
  You have been given this medicine to lower the number of fits (seizures) you have. 
What Lacosamide Accord is used for 
    Lacosamide Accord is used: 
o  on its own and in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents 
and children aged 2 years and older to treat a certain type of epilepsy characterised by 
the occurrence of partial-onset seizure with or without secondary generalisation. In 
this type of epilepsy, fits first affect only one side of your brain. However, these may 
then spread to larger areas on both sides of your brain.  
in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents and children 
aged 4 years and older to treat primary generalised tonic- clonic seizures (major fits, 
including loss of consciousness) in patients with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the 
type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic cause). 
o 
2.  What you need to know before you take Lacosamide Accord 
Do not take Lacosamide Accord 
 
if you are allergic to lacosamide, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you are not sure whether you are allergic, please discuss with your doctor. 
if you are allergic to peanut or soya. 
if you have a certain type of heart beat problem called second- or third-degree AV block. 
 
 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not take Lacosamide Accord if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your 
doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Lacosamide Accord if:  
  you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself. A small number of people being treated with 
antiepileptic medicinal products such as lacosamide have had thoughts of harming or killing 
themselves. If you have any of these thoughts at any time, tell your doctor straight away. 
  you have a heart problem that affects the beat of your heart and you often have a particulary 
slow, fast or irregular heart beat (such as AV block, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter). 
  you have severe heart disease such as heart failure or have had a heart attack.  
    you are often dizzy or fall over. Lacosamide Accord may make you dizzy -this could increase 
the risk of accidental injury or a fall. This means that you should  take care until you are used 
to the effects of this medicine. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord, talk to your doctor if you are experiencing a new type of seizure 
or worsening of existing seizures. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord and you are experiencing symptoms of abnormal heartbeat (such 
as slow, rapid or irregular heartbeat, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting), 
seek medical advice immediately (see section 4). 
Children  
Lacosamide Accord is not recommended for children aged under 2 years with epilepsy characterised 
by the occurrence of partial-onset seizure and not recommended for children aged under 4 years with 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures. This is because we do not yet know whether it will work 
and whether it is safe for children in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lacosamide Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.  
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines that affect 
your heart - this is because Lacosamide Accord can also affect your heart: 
  medicines to treat heart problems;  
  medicines which can increase the “PR interval” on a scan of the heart (ECG or 
electrocardiogram) such as medicines for epilepsy or pain called carbamazepine, lamotrigine 
or pregabalin;   
  medicines used to treat certain types of irregular heart beat or heart failure.  
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure) talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord.  
Also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines - this is because 
they may increase or decrease the effect of Lacosamide Accord on your body: 
    medicines for fungal infections such as  fluconazole, itraconazole or ketoconazole;   
     medicines for HIV such as ritonavir;  
    medicines for bacterial infections such as clarithromycin or rifampicin;  
    a herbal medicine used to treat mild anxiety and depression called St.John’s wort  
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Lacosamide Accord. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide Accord with alcohol 
As a safety precaution do not take Lacosamide Accord with alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Fertile women should discuss the use of contraceptives with the doctor. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
It is not recommended to take Lacosamide Accord if you are pregnant, as the effects of lacosamide on 
pregnancy and the unborn baby are not known.  
It is not recommended to breast-feed your baby while taking  
Lacosamide Accord, as Lacosamide 
Accord passes into the breast milk. Seek advice immediately from your doctor if you get pregnant or 
are planning to become pregnant. They will help you decide if you should take Lacosamide Accord or 
not. 
Do not stop treatment without talking to your doctor first as this could increase your fits (seizures). A 
worsening of your disease can also harm your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, cycle or use any tools or machines until you know how this medicine affects you. This is 
because Lacosamide Accord may make you feel dizzy or cause blurred vision  
Lacosamide Accord contains soya lecithin. 
If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not use this medicinal product.  
3. 
How to take Lacosamide Accord 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. Other form(s) of this medicine may be more suitable for children; 
ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
Taking Lacosamide Accord 
    Take Lacosamide Accord twice each day approximately 12 hours apart.  
    Try to take it at about the same time each day. 
  Swallow the Lacosamide Accord tablet with a glass of water.  
    You may take Lacosamide Accord with or without food.  
You will usually start by taking a low dose each day and your doctor will slowly increase this over a 
number of weeks. When you reach the dose that works for you, this is called the “maintenance dose”, 
you then take the same amount each day. Lacosamide Accord is used as a long term treatment. 
You should continue to take Lacosamide Accord until your doctor tells you to stop. 
How much to take 
Listed below are the normal recommended doses of Lacosamide Accord for different age groups and 
weights. Your doctor may prescribe a different dose if you have problems with your kidneys or with 
your liver. 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more and adults only 
When you take Lacosamide Accord on its own 
The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Accord is 50 mg twice a day.  
Your doctor may also prescribe a starting dose of 100 mg of Lacosamide Accord twice a day.  
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be until you reach a 
maintenance dose between 100 mg and 300 mg twice a day.  
When you take Lacosamide Accord with other antiepileptic medicines 
Start of the treatment (the first 4 weeks) 
This pack (treatment initiation pack) is used when you start your treatment with Lacosamide Accord.  
The pack contains 4 different packages for the first 4 weeks of treatment, one package for each week. 
Each package has 14 tablets, corresponding to 2 tablets per day for 7 days.  
Each package contains a different dosage strength of Lacosamide Accord, so you will increase your 
dose gradually.  
You will start your treatment with a low dose of Lacosamide Accord, usually 50 mg twice a day, and 
increase it week by week. The usual dose that may be taken per day for each of the first 4 weeks of 
treatment is shown in the following table. Your doctor will tell you whether you need all 4 packages. 
Table: Start of the treatment (the first 4 weeks) 
Week  
Package to be 
used 
Week 1   Package marked 
"Week 1" 
Week 2   Package marked 
"Week 2"  
Week 3  Package marked 
"Week 3" 
Week 4  Package marked 
"Week 4"  
First dose (in the 
morning) 
50 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 50 mg) 
100 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 100 mg) 
150 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 150 mg) 
200 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 200 mg) 
Second dose (in the 
evening) 
50 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 50 mg) 
100 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 100 mg) 
150 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 150 mg) 
200 mg 
(1 tablet Lacosamide 
Accord 200 mg) 
TOTAL 
daily dose 
100 mg 
200 mg 
300 mg 
400 mg 
Maintenance treatment (after the first 4 weeks) 
After the first 4 weeks of treatment, your doctor may adjust the dose with which you will continue 
your long term treatment. This dose is called a maintenance dose and will depend on how you respond 
to Lacosamide Accord. For most patients the maintenance dose is between 200 mg and 400 mg per 
day. 
Children and adolescents below 50 kg 
The treatment initiation pack is not suitable for children and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg. 
If you take more Lacosamide Accord  than you should  
If you have taken more Lacosamide Accord than you should, contact your doctor immediately. Do not 
try to drive. 
You may experience:  
    dizziness;  
    feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting);  
    fits (seizures), heart beat problems such as a slow, fast or irregular heart beat , coma or a fall 
in blood pressure with rapid heartbeat and sweating. 
If you forget to take Lacosamide Accord 
 
 
If you have missed a dose within the first 6 hours of the scheduled dose, take it as soon as you 
remember.  
If you have missed a dose beyond the first 6 hours of the scheduled dose, do not take the 
missed tablet anymore. Instead take Lacosamide Accord at the next time that you would 
normally take it.  
  Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop taking Lacosamide Accord 
    Do not stop taking Lacosamide Accord without talking to your doctor, as your epilepsy may 
come back again or become worse.  
    If your doctor decides to stop your treatment with Lacosamide Accord, they will tell you  how 
to decrease the dose step by step. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you get any of the following: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
 
 
 
Headache; 
Feeling dizzy or sick (nausea); 
Double vision (diplopia). 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10  people 
 
 
 
Short jerks of a muscle or group of muscles (myoclonic seizures); 
Difficulties in coordinating your movements or walking; 
Problems in keeping your balance, shaking (tremor), tingling (paresthesia) or muscle spasms, 
falling easily and getting bruises; 
Troubles with your memory, thinking or finding words, confusion; 
Rapid and uncontrollable movements of the eyes (nystagmus), blurred vision;  
A spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling drunk;  
Being sick (vomiting), dry mouth, constipation, indigestion, excessive gas in the stomach or 
bowel, diarrhoea; 
Decreased feeling or sensitivity, difficulty in articulating words, disturbance in attention; 
  Noise in the ear such as buzzing, ringing or whistling; 
Irritability, trouble sleeping, depression;  
Sleepiness, tiredness, or weakness (asthenia);  
  Itching, rash. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
 
Slow heart rate, palpitations, irregular pulse or other changes in the electrical activity of your 
heart (conduction disorder); 
  Exaggerated feeling of wellbeing, seeing and/or hearing things which are not there; 
  Allergic reaction to medicine intake, hives; 
Blood tests may show abnormal liver function , liver injury; 
Thoughts of harming or killing yourself or attempting  suicide: tell your doctor straight away; 
  Feeling angry or agitated; 
Abnormal thinking or losing touch with reality; 
Serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face, throat, hands, feet, ankles, or lower 
legs; 
Fainting; 
 
Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesia). 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from available data 
 
 
Abnormal rapid heartbeat (ventricular tachyarrhythmia);  
A sore throat, high temperature and getting more infections than usual. Blood tests may show 
a severe decrease in a specific class of white blood cells (agranulocytosis); 
A serious skin reaction which may include a high temperature and other flu-like symptoms, a 
rash on the face, extended rash, swollen glands (enlarged lymph nodes).  Blood tests may 
show increased levels of liver enzymes  and  a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia);  
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes 
and genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in 
more than 30 % of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis); 
  Convulsion. 
Additional side effects in children  
The additional side effects in children were fever (pyrexia), runny nose (nasopharyngitis), sore throat 
(pharyngitis), eating less than usual (decreased appetite), changes in behaviour, not acting like 
themselves (abnormal behavior) and lacking in energy (lethargy). Feeling sleepy (somnolence) is a 
very common side effect in children and may affect more than 1 in 10 children. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lacosamide Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the  sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lacosamide Accord contains 
The active substance is lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 50 mg contains 50 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 100 mg contains 100 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 150 mg contains 150 mg lacosamide. 
One tablet of Lacosamide Accord 200 mg contains 200 mg lacosamide. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: Microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxy propyl cellulose-L, hydroxy propyl cellulose (low 
substituted), silica colloidal anhydrous, crospovidone and magnesium stearate. 
Film-coat: Polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, talc, titanium dioxide (E171), lecithin (soya) and 
colorants* 
* The colorants are 
50 mg tablet: Iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide black (E172), indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
100 mg tablet: Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
150 mg tablet: Iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide black (E172), iron oxide yellow (E172) 
200 mg tablet: Indigo carmine aluminum lake (E132) 
What Lacosamide Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Lacosamide Accord 50 mg are pink, oval, approximately 10.3 x 4.8 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” 
on one side and “50” on other side. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacosamide Accord 100 mg are dark yellow, oval, approximately 13.0 x 6.0 mm, coated tablets, 
debossed “L” on one side and “100” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 150 mg are salmon, oval, approximately 15.0 x 6.9 mm, coated tablets, debossed 
“L” on one side and “150” on other side. 
Lacosamide Accord 200 mg are blue, oval, approximately 16.4 x 7.6 mm, coated tablets, debossed “L” 
on one side and “200” on other side. 
The treatment initiation pack contains 56 film-coated tablets in 4 packages:  
 
the package marked ‘Week 1’contains 14 tablets of 50 mg,  
 
the package marked ‘Week 2’ contains 14 tablets of 100 mg,  
 
the package marked ‘Week 3’ contains 14 tablets of 150 mg,  
 
the package marked ‘Week 4’ contains 14 tablets of 200 mg . 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
Manufacturer  
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
or 
LABORATORI FUNDACIÓ DAU 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca, Barcelona, 
08040 Barcelona, Spain 
or 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Lacosamide Accord 10 mg/ml solution for infusion 
lacosamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Lacosamide Accord 
How to use Lacosamide Accord 
Possible side effects 
How to store Lacosamide Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Lacosamide Accord is and what it is used for 
What Lacosamide Accord is  
Lacosamide Accord contains lacosamide. This belongs to a group of medicines called “antiepileptic 
medicines”. These medicines are used to treat epilepsy. 
 
You have been given this medicine to lower the number of fits (seizures) you have. 
What Lacosamide Accord is used for  
 
It is used: 
o  on its own and in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents 
and children aged 2 years and older to treat a certain type of epilepsy characterised 
by the occurrence of partial-onset seizure with or without secondary generalisation. In 
this type of epilepsy, fits first affect only one side of your brain. However, these may 
then spread to larger areas on both sides of your brain.  
in association with other antiepileptic medicines in adults, adolescents and children 
aged 4 years and older to treat primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, 
including loss of consciousness) in patients with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the 
type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic cause).  
o 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Lacosamide Accord 
Do not use Lacosamide Accord 
 
if  you  are  allergic  to  lacosamide,  or  any  of  the  other  ingredients  of  this  medicine  (listed  in 
section 6). If you are not sure whether you are allergic, please discuss with your doctor. 
if you have a certain type of heart beat problem called second- or third-degree AV block. 
 
Do not use Lacosamide Accord if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor 
or pharmacist before using this medicine. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using Lacosamide Accord if: 
 
you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself. A small number of people being treated with 
antiepileptic  medicinal  products  such  as  lacosamide  have  had  thoughts  of  harming  or  killing 
themselves. If you have any of these thoughts at any time, tell your doctor straight away. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you have a heart problem that affects the beat of your heart and you often have a particularly slow, 
fast or irregular heart beat (such as AV block, atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter). 
you have severe heart disease such as heart failure or have had a heart attack. 
you are often dizzy or fall over. Lacosamide Accord may make you dizzy - this could increase 
the risk of accidental injury or a fall. This means that you should take care until you are used to 
the effects of this medicine. 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Accord. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord, talk to your doctor if you are experiencing a new type of seizure 
or worsening of existing seizures. 
If you are taking Lacosamide Accord and you are experiencing symptoms of abnormal heartbeat (such 
as slow, rapid or irregular heartbeat, palpitations, shortness of breath, feeling lightheaded, fainting), seek 
medical advice immediately (see section 4). 
Children : 
Lacosamide Accord is not recommended for children aged under 2 years with epilepsy characterised 
by the occurrence of partial-onset seizure and not recommended for children aged under 4 years with 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures. This is because we do not yet know whether it will work 
and whether it is safe for children in this age group.  
Other medicines and Lacosamide Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines that affect 
your heart - this is because lacosamide can also affect your heart: 
 
 
medicines to treat heart problems; 
medicines which can increase the “PR interval” on a scan of the heart (ECG or electrocardiogram) 
such as medicines for epilepsy or pain called carbamazepine, lamotrigine or pregabalin; 
medicines used to treat certain types of irregular heart beat or heart failure. 
 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Accord. 
Also tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using any of the following medicines - this is because 
they may increase or decrease the effect of Lacosamide Accord on your body: 
 
 
 
 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using 
Lacosamide Accord. 
medicines for fungal infections such as fluconazole, itraconazole or ketoconazole; 
a medicine for HIV such as ritonavir; 
medicines for bacterial infections such as clarithromycin or rifampicin; 
a herbal medicine used to treat mild anxiety and depression called St. John’s wort. 
Lacosamide Accord with alcohol 
As a safety precaution do not use Lacosamide Accord with alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Fertile women should discuss the use of contraceptives with the doctor. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
It is not recommended to use Lacosamide Accord if you are pregnant as effects of Lacosamide Accord 
on pregnancy and unborn baby are unknown. It is not recommended to breast-feed your baby while 
taking Lacosamide, as Lacosamide passes into breast milk. Seek advice immediately from your doctor 
if you get pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. They will help you decide if you should use 
Lacosamide Accord or not. 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not stop treatment without talking to your doctor first as this could increase your fits (seizures). A 
worsening of your disease can also harm your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, cycle or use any tools or machines until you know how this medicine affects you. This is 
because Lacosamide Accord may make you feel dizzy or cause blurred vision. 
Lacosamide Accord contains sodium 
This medicine contains 2.6 mmol (or60 mg) sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each 
vial. This is equivalent to 3% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an 
adult. You need to know this if you are on a controlled sodium diet. 
3. 
How to use Lacosamide Accord 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Using Lacosamide Accord 
 
Lacosamide Accord can be started by: 
- 
 taking the medicine by mouth or 
-  by  being  given  as  an  intravenous  infusion  (sometimes  called  an  “IV  infusion”)  where  the 
 
 
medicine is given into your vein by a doctor or nurse. It is given over 15 to 60 minutes. 
The IV infusion is usually used for a short time when you cannot take the medicine by mouth. 
Your doctor will decide for how many days you will have infusions. There is experience with 
twice  daily  infusions  of  Lacosamide  Accord  for  up  to  5 days.  For  longer  term  treatment 
lacosamide tablets and syrup are available. 
When you change from the infusion to taking the medicine by mouth (or the other way around) the 
total amount you take each day and how often you take it stays the same. 
 
 
Use Lacosamide Accord twice each day – once in the morning and once in the evening. 
Try to use it at about the same time each day. 
How much to use 
Listed below are the normal recommended doses of Lacosamide Accord for different age groups and 
weights. Your doctor may prescribe a different dose if you have problems with your kidneys or with 
your liver. 
Adolescents and children weighing 50 kg or more and adults 
When you use Lacosamide Accord on its own 
The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Accord is 50 mg twice a day. 
The treatment with Lacosamide Accord may also start with a dose of 100 mg of Lacosamide Accord 
twice a day. 
Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be until you reach a 
maintenance dose of between 100 mg and 300 mg twice a day. 
When you use Lacosamide Accord with other antiepileptic medicines 
The usual starting dose of Lacosamide Accord is 50 mg twice a day. 
Your doctor may increase your twice daily dose every week by 50 mg. This will be until you reach a 
maintenance dose of between 100 mg and 200 mg twice a day. 
If you weigh 50 kg or more, your doctor may decide to start Lacosamide Accord treatment with a 
single “loading” dose of 200 mg. You would then start your ongoing maintenance dose 12 hours later. 
105 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg 
- In the treatment of partial-onset seizure: Observe that Lacosamide is not recommended for children 
under 2 years of age. - In the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures: Observe that 
Lacosamide is not recommended for children under 4 years of age. 
When you use Lacosamide Accord on its own 
Your doctor will decide the dose of Lacosamide Accord based on your body weight. 
The usual starting dose is 1 mg (0.1 ml), for each kilogram (kg) of body weight, twice a day. 
Your doctor may then increase your twice daily dose every week by 1 mg (0.1 ml), for each kg of your 
body weight. This will be until you reach a maintenance dose. Dosing charts including the maximum 
recommended dose are provided below. This is for information only. Your doctor will work out the 
right dose for you: 
To be used twice daily for children from 2 years of age weighing from 10 kg to less than 40 kg 
Weight  Week 1 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
10 kg 
15 kg 
20 kg 
25 kg 
30 kg 
35 kg 
1 ml 
1.5 ml 
2 ml 
2.5 ml 
3 ml 
3.5 ml 
2 ml 
3 ml 
4 ml 
5 ml 
6 ml 
7 ml 
3 ml 
4.5 ml 
6 ml 
7.5 ml 
9 ml 
10.5 ml 
4 ml 
6 ml 
8 ml 
10 ml 
12 ml 
14 ml 
5 ml 
7.5 ml 
10 ml 
12.5 ml 
15 ml 
17.5 ml 
Week 6 
Maximum 
recommended dose: 
0.6 ml/kg 
6 ml 
9 ml 
12 ml 
15 ml 
18 ml 
21 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 40 kg to less than 50 kg: 
Weight  Week 1 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
4 ml 
4.5 ml 
40 kg 
45 kg 
8 ml 
9 ml 
12 ml 
13.5 ml 
16 ml 
18 ml 
Week 5 
Maximum recommended dose: 
0.5 ml/kg 
20 ml 
22.5 ml 
When you use Lacosamide Accord with other antiepileptic medicines 
Your doctor will decide the dose of Lacosamide Accord based on your body weight. 
For children and adolescents weighing from 10 kg to less than 50 kg, the usual starting dose is 1 mg 
(0.1 ml), for each kilogram (kg) of body weight, twice a day.  
Your doctor may then increase your twice daily dose every week by 1 mg (0.1 ml) for each kg of body 
weight. This will be until you reach a maintenance dose.. A dosing charts including the maximum 
recommended dose are provided below. This is for information only. Your doctor will work out the 
right dose for you. 
To be used twice daily for children from 2 years of age weighing from 10 kg to less than 20 kg 
Weight  Week 1 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
Week 5 
0.5 ml/kg 
10 kg 
15 kg 
1 ml 
1.5 ml 
2 ml 
3 ml 
3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4 ml 
6 ml 
5 ml 
7.5 ml 
Week 6 
Maximum 
recommended dose: 
0.6 ml/kg 
6 ml 
9 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 20 kg to less than 30 kg: 
Weight  Week 1 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
Week 4 
0.4 ml/kg 
Week 5 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starting dose: 
0.1 ml/kg 
2 ml 
2.5 ml 
20 kg 
25 kg 
4 ml 
5 ml 
6 ml 
7.5 ml 
8 ml 
10 ml 
Maximum recommended dose: 
0.5 ml/kg 
10 ml 
12.5 ml 
To be used twice daily for children and adolescents weighing from 30 kg to under 50 kg: 
Weight  Week 1 
30 kg 
35 kg 
40 kg 
45 kg 
Starting dose:0.1 ml/kg 
3 ml 
3.5 ml 
4 ml 
4.5 ml 
Week 2 
0.2 ml/kg 
6 ml 
7 ml 
8 ml 
9 ml 
Week 3 
0.3 ml/kg 
9 ml 
10.5 ml 
12 ml 
13.5 ml 
Week 4 
Maximum recommended dose: 0.4 ml/kg 
12 ml 
14 ml 
16 ml 
18 ml 
If you stop using Lacosamide Accord 
If your doctor decides to stop your treatment with Lacosamide Accord, they will decrease the dose 
step by step. This is to prevent your epilepsy from coming back again or becoming worse. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Nervous system side effects such as dizziness may be higher after a single “loading” dose. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you get any of the following: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
 
 
 
Headache; 
Feeling dizzy or sick (nausea); 
Double vision (diplopia). 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
 
 
 
Short jerks of a muscle or group of muscles (myoclonic seizures); 
Difficulties in coordinating your movements or walking; 
Problems  in  keeping  your  balance,  shaking  (tremor),  tingling  (paresthesia)  or  muscle  spasms, 
falling easily and getting bruises; 
Troubles with your memory, thinking or finding words, confusion; 
Rapid and uncontrollable movements of the eyes (nystagmus), blurred vision; 
A spinning sensation (vertigo), feeling drunk; 
Being  sick  (vomiting),  dry  mouth,  constipation,  indigestion,  excessive  gas  in  the  stomach  or 
bowel, diarrhoea; 
Decreased feeling or sensitivity, difficulty in articulating words, disturbance in attention; 
Noise in the ear such as buzzing, ringing or whistling; 
Irritability, trouble sleeping, depression; 
Sleepiness, tiredness or weakness (asthenia); 
Itching, rash. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
 
Slow heart rate, palpitations, irregular pulse or other changes in the electrical activity of your 
heart (conduction disorder); 
Exaggerated feeling of wellbeing, seeing and/or hearing things which are not there; 
Allergic reaction to medicine intake, hives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood tests may show abnormal liver function, liver injury; 
Thoughts of harming or killing yourself or attempting suicide: tell your doctor straight away; 
Feeling angry or agitated; 
Abnormal thinking or losing touch with reality; 
Serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face, throat, hands, feet, ankles, or lower 
legs; 
Fainting. 
Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesia). 
 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from available data 
 
Abnormal rapid heartbeat (ventricular tachyarrhythmia); 
 
A sore throat, high temperature and getting more infections than usual. Blood tests may show a 
severe decrease in a specific class of white blood cells (agranulocytosis); 
A serious skin reaction which may include a high temperature and other flu-like symptoms, a rash 
on  the  face,  extended  rash,  swollen  glands  (enlarged  lymph  nodes).  Blood  tests  may  show 
increased levels of liver enzymes and a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia); 
A widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes and 
genitals (Stevens–Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in more than 
30 % of the body surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis); 
Convulsion. 
 
 
Additional side effects when given as an intravenous infusion 
There may be local side effects. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
 
Injection site pain or discomfort or irritation. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
 
Injection site redness. 
Additional side effects in children 
The additional side effects in children were fever (pyrexia), runny nose (nasopharyngitis), sore throat 
(pharyngitis), eating less than usual (decreased appetite), changes in behaviour, not acting like 
themselves (abnormal behavior) and lacking in energy (lethargy). Feeling sleepy (somnolence) is a 
very common side effect in children and may affect more than 1 in 10 children. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lacosamide Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Each vial of Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion must be used only once (single use). Any 
unused solution should be discarded. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Only clear solution free from particles and discoloration should be used.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lacosamide Accord contains 
 
The active substance is lacosamide. 
1 ml Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion contains 10 mg lacosamide. 
1 vial contains 20 ml Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion equivalent to 200 mg 
lacosamide. 
The other ingredients are: sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
 
What Lacosamide Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
 
Lacosamide Accord 10 mg/ml solution for infusion is a clear, colourless solution, free from any 
particulate matter. 
Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion is available in packages of 1 vial and 5 vials. Each vial 
contains 20 ml. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona s/n, Edifici Est, 6a Planta,  
08039 Barcelona  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Ul. Lutomierska 50,  
95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited  
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, Paola  
PLA 3000, Malta 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands  
Laboratori Fundació DAU 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca, 
08040 Barcelona, Spain 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only.  
Each vial of Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion must be used only once (single use). Any 
unused solution should be discarded (see section 3).  
Lacosamide Accord solution for infusion can be administered without further dilution, or may be 
diluted with the following solutions: sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %), glucose 50 mg/ml (5 %) or 
lactated Ringer’s solution.  
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and 
validated aseptic conditions.  
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at temperatures up to 25°C 
for product mixed with these diluents and stored in glass or PVC bags. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
