Summary of risk management plan for Lacosamide Adroiq (Lacosamide) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Lacosamide Adroiq. The  RMP 
details important risks of Lacosamide Adroiq, risk minimisation measures needed to minimise 
these risks and routine pharmacovigilance activities needed to obtain more information about 
Lacosamide Adroiq’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Lacosamide Adroiq’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Lacosamide Adroiq 
should be used. 
This summary  of the RMP for  Lacosamide Adroiq should be  read in  the context of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Lacosamide Adroiq’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Lacosamide Adroiq is authorized for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of 
partial-onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalization  in  adults,  adolescents  and 
children from 2 years of age with epilepsy (see Summary of Product Characteristics [SmPC] 
for  the  full  indication).  Lacosamide Adroiq  is  also  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  the 
treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults, adolescents, and children from 
4  years  of  age  with  idiopathic  generalized  epilepsy.  It  contains  Lacosamide  as  the  active 
substance and it is given by injection of 10mg/mL solution for infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Lacosamide Adroiq’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Lacosamide Adroiq’s EPAR. Including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
webpage 
website, 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lacosamide-adroiq. 
medicine’s 
under 
the 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Lacosamide Adroiq, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
learning more about Lacosamide risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflets and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;  
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report assessment so that immediate 
action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of LCM is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ in Table 2-1 below 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Lacosamide Adroiq are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Lacosamide Adroiq. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Cardiac AEs that may be potentially associated with 
PR interval prolongation or sodium channel 
modulation 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
Pregnant or lactating women 
Impact on long-term growth, long-term 
neurodevelopment, and puberty in pediatric population 
AE=adverse event 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  product  information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
 
 
 
 
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Cardiac AEs that may be potentially associated with PR interval 
prolongation or sodium channel modulation 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
Prolongations in PR interval with lacosamide (LCM) have been 
observed in clinical studies. 
A phase 1 study revealed a small dose related increase in the 
mean PR interval with LCM treated subjects. 
Nonclinical studies revealed an interaction with LCM and 
cardiac  sodium  channels  which  could  potentially  affect 
normal cardiac electrophysiology. This risk was upgraded 
by  UCB  from  important  potential  risk  to  important 
identified  risk  based  on  a  cumulative  analysis  of 
postmarketing  data  which  indicated  a  causal  relationship 
with LCM. 
The risk factors for developing AEs related to PR prolongation 
include a presence of pre-existing heart failure or a recent 
myocardial infarction or known conduction abnormalities 
(Ryvlin et al, 2013; Strzelczyk et al, 2008; Rocamora et al, 
2003). 
Studies on the risk factors for AEs related to PR prolongation 
have been done in the general population. The incidence of atrial 
fibrillation increases with age (Friberg et al, 2010). Other risk 
factors for atrial fibrillation include a history of hypertension, 
cardiac diseases including valvular, ischemic and congestive 
heart failure (Krahn et al, 1995). The frequency of cardiac 
syncope also increases with age from approximately 1.1% in 
people less than 40 years to 16% in individuals more than 75 
years of age (Rvylin et al, 2013; Olde et al, 2009; Ungar et al, 
2006). Ictal bradycardia is most prevalent in individuals with 
temporal lobe epilepsy (Monté et al, 2007; Reeves et al, 1996). 
There is no data available on the risk factors specific to 
antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). 
Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients with 
underlying proarrhythmic conditions such as patients with 
known cardiac conduction problems or severe cardiac disease 
(eg, myocardial ischemia/ infarction, heart failure, structural 
heart disease or cardiac sodium channelopathies) or patients 
treated with medicinal products affecting cardiac conduction, 
including antiarrhythmics and sodium channel blockers. Older 
age (>65 years) and/or iv therapy were not identified as 
independent risk factors. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) Section 4.2 
(Posology and method of administration - iv formulation), SmPC 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications),  SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for use), SmPC Section 4.5 (Interaction 
with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction), 
SmPC Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects), SmPC Section 5.3 
(Preclinical safety data)  
Available by prescription only 
Additional risk minimization measures: None 
Missing information: Pregnant or lactating women 
 
Risk minimization measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
SmPC Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation), SmPC 
Section 5.3 (Preclinical safety data)  
Additional risk minimization measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: participation in and 
sponsorship of pregnancy registries (European and International 
Registry of AEDs in Pregnancy and North American AED 
Pregnancy Registry)  
See Section 2.3.2 of this summary for an overview of the 
postauthorization development plan. 
Missing information: Impact on long-term growth, long-term neurodevelopment, and 
puberty in pediatric population 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: No additional wording in 
SmPC Available by prescription only. 
Additional risk minimization measures: None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
II.C  Post-authorisation Development Plan 
No post authorisation study is planned for this product. 
II.C.1  Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Lacosamide Adroiq. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in post-authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Lacosamide Adroiq. 
 
 
