European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/640728/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Lamivudine Teva 
International Nonproprietary Name: lamivudine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001113 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
3.1 
3.2 
3.3 
3.4 
3.5 
3.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 12 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 13 
2/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  5  December  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Lamivudine Teva, in accordance with 
the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is:  
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 150 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 08-08-1996 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131) 
(Community) Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/96/015/001 (Bottle), 
EU/1/96/015/004 (Blister pack) 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zeffix 100 mg film-coated tablets  
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo Group Ltd  
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/99/114/001, EU/1/99/114/002  
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 300 mg Tablets 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: GlaxoSmithKline 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 08-08-1996 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131) 
(Community) Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/96/015/003 (Bottle) 
EU/1/96/015/005 (Blister pack) 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number: 2008-1715 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Dr Dermolis 
Rapporteur: 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 5 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 24 December 2008.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 26 March 
2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  20  -  23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 May 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 20 July 2009. 
During the meeting on 20 – 23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Lamivudine Teva on 23 July 2009. 
4/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
3.1 
Introduction 
This is a generic medicinal product containing lamivudine as active substance. Each film-coated tablet 
contains  100  mg  lamivudine;  the  product  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  HBV  infection.  The 
reference  medicinal  product  is  Zeffix  film-coated  tablets  which  is  part  of  the  global  marketing 
authorisation for lamivudine containing reference medicinal products. 
Lamivudine  is  an antiviral  agent  with a  pyrimidine nucleoside  analogue  structure,  which suppresses 
HBV  viral  replication  by  terminating  HBV  DNA  chain  elongation.  Lamivudine  has  been  shown  to 
enter HBV transfected and non-transfected HepG2cells (a human hepatoma-derived cell-line) where it 
is  phosphorylated  to  lamivudine  5’-monophosphate  (active  form  of  the  parent  compound)  by 
cytoplasmic deoxycytidine kinase.  Intracellular phosphorylation of the monophosphate results in the 
formation of the 5’di- and 5’tri-phosphates. Lamivudine triphosphate acts as a substrate of HBV viral 
polymerase.  The  formation  of  further  viral  DNA  is  blocked  by  incorporation  of  lamivudine 
triphosphate into the chain. 
The  safety  and  efficacy  profile  of  lamivudine  for  the  treatment  of  HBV  infection  has  been 
demonstrated  in  several  clinical  trials,  details  of  which  can  be  found in  the  EPAR  for  the  reference 
medicinal  product.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing  experience  contributing  to  the 
knowledge of the clinical use of this active substance. Since this application is a generic application 
referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Zeffix,  the  pivotal  basis  is  the  demonstration  of 
bioequivalence.  
The  indication  proposed for  Lamivudine Teva  is  the same  as  authorised  for the  reference  medicinal 
product, which is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
•  compensated  liver  disease  with  evidence  of  active  viral  replication,  persistently  elevated  serum 
alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active  liver  inflammation 
and/or fibrosis.  
•  decompensated liver disease.  
3.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 100 mg lamivudine. 
Other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, sodium starch glycolate (Type A), magnesium stearate. 
Film coating: hypromellose 3cP, hypromellose 6cP, titanium dioxide E171, macrogol 400, polysorbate 
80, iron oxide yellow E172, iron oxide red E172. 
The film coated tablets are packed in PVC/PVdC – Aluminium blisters and white HDPE containers 
with white opaque polyethylene child resistent screw cap with induction seal. 
Active Substance 
Lamivudine is a white or almost white powder that is soluble in water, sparingly soluble in methanol 
and  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol.  Lamivudine  has  the  chemical  name  4-amino-1-[(2R,5S)-2-
(hydroxymethyl]-1,3-oxathiolan-5-yl]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one  hydrate  (5:1).  Lamivudine  possesses  two 
asymmetric  carbons  and  is  expected  to  be  optically  active.  Lamivudine  exists  in  two  polymorphic 
forms. 
5/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
The manufacturing of lamivudine consists in two steps. The information on the manufacturing process 
is  provided  in  an  ASMF.  Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the 
active substance. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials 
and  reagents,  have  been  presented  and  are  satisfactory.  Polymorphic  forms  and[c3]  optical 
isomerism[c4]) are controlled during manufacture 
•  Specification 
The  specifications  of  the  drug  substance  include  description  (Ph  Eur),  solubility  (Ph  Eur), 
identification (Specific Optical Rotation, IR, Enantiomeric purity), polymorphic identification (XRPD, 
DSC), absorbance, related substances, (Ph Eur), enantiomeric purity (Ph Eur), heavy metals (Ph Eur), 
water content (Ph Eur), residue on ignition (Ph Eur), assay (HPLC[c7]) and residual solvents (GC). The 
analytical  methods  used  for  control  of  active  substance  are  methods  described  in  the  Ph  Eur 
monograph 2217.  
Batch analysis data (n=3) of the active substance are provided. The results are within the specifications 
and consistent from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The stability studies have been carried out on four batches of active substance in long-term conditions 
(30°C/65%  RH)  and  in  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH).  The  data  cover  a  period  of  6  to  9 
months  in  long  term  conditions  and  6  months  in  accelerated  conditions.  The  stability  samples  have 
been stored in a mini-size simulation of the original packing.  
Parameters tested during stability studies are characterisation, identification (IR), polymorph identity 
XRPD), related substance (HPLC), water content and assay.  
Forced degradation studies were performed by treatment with heat, light (UV light and visible light), 
under acidic and alkaline conditions, under oxidizing, reduction and hydrolysis conditions. 
The stability results justify the proposed retest period. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  development  pharmaceutics  was  to  obtain  immediate-release  tablets  containing 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  as  the  reference  medicinal  product.  The 
dissolution tests described for the finished product were used as discriminating tests in order to select 
suitable formulations. 
Different  manufacturing  processes  for  Lamivudine  tablets  (direct  compression  and  wet  granulation) 
were tested. Ultimately, the direct compression process was chosen based on appearance and quality 
attributes of the product, as well as the simplicity and effectiveness of this process. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch 
glycolate (Type A), magnesium stearate.film coating: hypromellose 3cP, hypromellose 6cP, titanium 
dioxide E171, macrogol 400, polysorbate 80, iron oxide yellow E172, iron oxide red E172. 
All the excipients are tested according to the current European Pharmacopoeial specifications except 
the colorants which are tested as per in-house methods. 
Tablets  are  packaged  either  with  PVC/  PVdC  blister  or  white  opaque  HDPE  container  with  child 
resistant  screw  cap.The  suppliers  declare  that  their  materials  comply  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  and 
Commission  Directive  2002/72/EC  as  amended  (relating  to  plastic  materials  intended  to  come  into 
contact with foodstuffs). 
6/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard direct compression. The manufacturing is divided into 6 main 
steps:  initial  blending,  intermediate  blending,  final  blending:  lubrification,  compression,  coating  and 
packaging. 
•  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  description,  identification  of  active 
substance  (HPLC,  UV),  identification  of  Opadry  colorants  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph 
Eur),  dissolution  (Ph  Eur),  assay  ([c8]%,  HPLC),  impurities/degradation  products  (HPLC),  microbial 
limit test (Ph Eur).  
Batch analysis results (n = 2) confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the 
process is under control.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Two  batches  of  the  finished  packed  in  the  intended  for  marketing  primary  packaging  (blisters  and 
HDPE containers) were put on long-term (25°C/60%RH) for up 12 months for blisters and for up 9 
months  for  HDPE  containers,  and  accelerated  (40°C/75%RH)  for  up  6  months  stability  testing  ICH 
dissolution, 
conditions.  The 
impurities/degradation products, and microbiological quality. 
parameters  were 
description, 
following 
tested: 
assay, 
The results support the shelf life in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
3.3  Non-clinical aspects 
No  new  non-clinical  data  were  submitted  in  support  of  this  application.  The  applicant  provided  an 
acceptable  summary  of  the  pharmacological,  pharmacodynamic  and  toxicological  properties  of 
lamivudine  from  recent  literature  sources  and  on  a  literature  research  for  recent  non-clinical 
information relevant to the safety of lamivudine. The non-clinical aspects of the SPC are in line with 
the SPC of the reference product. No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why 
no such data was provided. 
The impurity profile has been discussed and it was concluded that there are no significant differences 
between the impurity profiles of the generic product and reference products. The applicant provided a 
suitable  justification  for  the  absence  of  a  formal  environmental  risk  assessment,  based  on  the 
expectation  that  introduction  of  these  generic  products  onto  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  an 
increase  in  the  combined  sales  of  all  lamivudine-containing  products,  which  in  turn  is  unlikely  to 
increase exposure of the environment to lamivudine. 
3.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This is an abridged application for film-coated tablets containing 100 mg lamivudine. To support the 
marketing  authorisation  the  applicant  conducted  a  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  with  cross-over 
design  under  fasting  conditions  using  the  300  mg  strength.  This study  was  the pivotal study  for  the 
assessment. For the 100 mg strength the applicant then applied for a biowaiver. 
7/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A clinical overview was provided summarising the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  lamivudine  based  on  a  literature  search;  this  overview  was  considered 
adequate. The SPC is in line with the SPC of the reference product. 
No  formal  scientific  advice  by  the  CHMP  was  given  for  this  medicinal  product.  For  the  clinical 
assessment  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98)  in  its  current  version  as  well  as  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  Guidelines  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  are  of  particular 
relevance. 
GCP: 
The  pivotal  study  was  complying  with  GCP,  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  The  applicant  provided  a 
statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trial  2008-1715  was  conducted  outside  the  community  and  was 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption 
The applicant requested a biowaiver for the conduct of a bioequivalence study for the 100 mg strength 
based  on  the  following  justification  related  to  the  comparison  with  the  300  mg  strength  as  well  as 
characteristics of the active substance: 
Both  strengths  of  the  generic  medicinal  product  are  manufactured  by  the  same  manufacturer  and 
process, have the same qualitative composition, same ratio between amounts of active substance and 
excipients,  and  similar  dissolution  profile  under  identical  conditions.  Adequate  dissolution  profiles 
were  provided.  From  a  pharmacokinetic  view  point,  lamivudine  shows  dose-linearity  over  the 
therapeutic range. 
A bioequivalence study was conducted with the 300 mg strength. Based on the above information and 
taking into account the criteria laid out in the applicable Note for Guidance, the CHMP considered that 
a  bioequivalence  study  with  the  100  mg  strength  is  not  necessary.  It  was  noted  that  the  reference 
product  used  for  the  bioequivalence  study  is  different  from  the  reference  product  for  the  SPC;  any 
potential  differences  between  these  formulations  have  been  taken  into  account  and  were  considered 
acceptable for the application of the biowaiver concept. 
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  application,  the  applicant  has submitted  one bioequivalence  study;  the details of this 
study are summarised in Table 1: 
Table 1 
Summary of study 2008-1715 
Objective(s) of the 
Study 
Determination of 
bioavailability 
between a generic 
medicinal product 
and a reference 
product under 
fasting conditions 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Open-label, 
randomized, 
two period, 
two sequence, 
two treatment, 
crossover 
study 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage Regimen; 
Route of 
Administration 
Two film-coated 
tablet 
formulations, 
300 mg, oral 
Number of 
Subjects 
40 enrolled 
(38 comple-
ted) 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
Diagnosis 
of Patients 
Healthy 
subjects 
Duration 
of Treat-
ment 
Single-
dose  
8/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics  
•  Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study  2008-1715  was  an  open  label,  randomised  two-treatment,  two-period,  two-sequence,  single-
dose, crossover study conducted under fasting conditions. 
The  subjects  were  confined  to  the  clinical  facility  for  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  each  drug 
administration  until  24  hours  after  dosing.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  of  two  dosing 
sequences.  
In each period, an optional pre-study snack was provided to each subject after check-in and prior to 
fasting.  Subjects  fasted  overnight  for  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  drug  administration  and  for  at  least 
4 hours  following  drug  administration.  Study  drugs  were  administered  with  240  ml  of  room 
temperature  potable  water.  Standardized  xanthine-free  meals  with  caffeine-free  beverages  were 
provided to subjects at least 4 hours after drug administration in each period. Other standardized meals 
were  served  throughout  the  remainder  of  the  confinement  period.  Other  than  the  optional  pre-study 
snack  and  the  protocol  specified  meals,  subjects  were  not  allowed  any  other  food  or  drink  while 
confined in the clinic. With the exception of the water ingested during drug administration, water was 
not allowed from 2 hours prior to drug administration, until 2 hours post-dose. 
Concentrations  of  lamivudine  were  measured  from  samples  collected  over  a  24-hour  interval  after 
dosing in each period. Blood samples were collected pre-dosing and at 0.17, 0.33, 0.5, 0.67, 0.83, 1, 
1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16 and 24 hours post-dosing. [EMEA10] 
The washout interval between both periods was 7 days. 
The  clinical  part  of  the  study,  the  bioanalytical  analyses  as  well  as  the  statistical  analyses  were 
performed by contract research organisations. [EMEA11] 
The study protocol and consent form were reviewed and approved [EMEA13]by an ethics review board.  
[EMEA14] 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS: 
Lamivudine 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Test Product: 
TEVA Pharm. Works Private Ltd, Hungary 
Manufactured by: 
Batch No.: 
0110408 
Manufacturing date:  04/2008 
Reference Product:  Epivir 300 mg, film-coated tablets 
Manufactured by: 
Batch No.: 
Expiry date:  
Glaxo Smith Kline, France 
R314477 
06/2010 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
40  healthy  volunteers,  male  and  female,  18-55  years  of  age,  with  a  BMI  between  19  and  30 
(inclusive),  were  randomised  and  enrolled  into  the  study  in  order  to  allow  for  dropouts  and 
withdrawals. The mean demographic data for all enrolled subjects are presented in Table 2. 
Inclusion  and  exclusion criteria  were acceptable  for  the  product  and for  this type  of study.  Subjects 
abstained  from  ingesting  products  containing  grapefruit,  alcohol,  caffeine,  and/or  xanthine  for 
48 hours  prior  to  each  drug  administration  and  until  after  the  last  sample  from  each  period  was 
9/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
collected.  Subjects  were  not  allowed  to  use  any  medications  (prescription  or  over-the-counter), 
herbal/natural products and nutritional supplements for the 14 days preceding drug administration until 
completion  of  the  entire  study.  Hormonal  contraceptives,  non-systemic,  topically  applied  products 
(prescription or otherwise) or occasional use of common analgesics were allowed. 
38 subjects completed the study and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Table 2  
Summary of mean demographic data for enrolled subject (N = 40) 
Mean 
+/- SD 
Median 
Range 
Age (years) 
35 
10 
35 
20-54 
Height (cm) 
167.7 
8.7 
168.5 
151.0-187.0 
Weight (kg) 
70.5 
12.5 
67.7 
49.8-95.5 
BMI (kg/m2) 
24.9 
2.9 
25.4 
19.1-29.8 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The blood samples were analyzed using a LC-MS/MS Technique.  
[EMEA17] 
The analytical method was considered adequately validated. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf,  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  determined.  AUC  was 
calculated  by  the  trapezoidal  rule.  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  directly  estimated  from  the  individual 
concentration time profiles. 
STATISTICAL METHODS 
The statistical analysis was performed using SAS software. 
Descriptive statistics were estimated for the pharmacokinetic parameters in each treatment. The least 
square  means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments  least  square  means,  and  the  corresponding 
standard errors of these differences were estimated for log-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. 
ANOVA was performed on the ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. In addition, ANOVA was 
applied  to  untransformed  Kel  and  T1/2  parameters.  The  ANOVA  model  included  sequence,  subject 
nested  within  sequence,  period  and  treatment.  Based  on  these  statistics,  the  ratios  of  the  geometric 
means  for  treatments  and  the  corresponding  90%  confidence  intervals  were  calculated.  For  the 
bioequivalence conclusion it was predefined that 90% geometric intervals of the ratio (Test/Reference) 
of least square means from the ln-transformed values for AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax had to be within the 
range of 80-125%.  
Non-transformed Tmax was tested using the non parametric Wilcoxon test. 
The statistical methods were adequately described and were deemed acceptable. There were no major 
protocol deviations. 
• 
Results 
38  out  of  40  enrolled  subjects  completed  the  study  and  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical data analysis. Two subjects were excluded during the conduct of the study for the following 
reasons:  
-  One  subject  was  tested  positive  for  cotinine  (exclusion  criteria)  at  period  II  check-in  and  was 
therefore dismissed for non-compliance; 
-  One subject experienced nausea and loose stool after period II and was dismissed without being 
dosed. 
10/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At  the  beginning  of  period  II,  all  pre-dose  concentrations  were  below  LLOQ except  for one subject 
where pre-dose concentration was lower than 5% for Cmax. 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  obtained  in  the  38  subjects  who  were  included  in  the  analysis  are 
presented  in  Table  3.  The  results  of  the  statistical  analysis  for  ln-transformed  data  are  displayed  in 
Table 4. 
Table 3 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of study 2008-1715 (non-transformed values) 
N 
38 
Test 
Mean* 
14269.42 
SD** 
20 
N 
38 
Reference 
Mean* 
13926.42 
14212.01 
38 
19 
38 
38 
3672.89 
14538.32 
AUC0-t 
[ng×h/ml] 
AUC0-∞ 
[ng×h/ml] 
Cmax  
[ng/ml] 
Tmax  
[h] 
AUC0-∞  Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t   Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   Maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
Time for maximum concentration 
Arithmetic mean 
* 
Standard deviation 
** 
1.27 
1.19 
38 
38 
47 
27 
38 
3673.95 
SD** 
21 
20 
26 
74 
Table 4 
Statistical analysis of study 2008-1715 (ln-transformed data) 
Parameter 
Ratio of geometric 
means (%) 
101.93 
90% CI* 
Lower 
98.20 
AUC0-t 
(ng×h/ml) 
AUC0-∞ 
(ng×h/ml) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
* 90% confidence intervals based on ln transformed values. 
101.81 
99.19 
98.29 
93.44 
Upper 
105.80 
105.45 
105.30 
Intra-subject 
CV (%) 
10 
9 
16 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  ratio  of  geometric  means  of  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  (ln-
transformed data) are within the limits of 80% to 125%. 
A statistically significant difference (α =0.05) was detected between the two periods of the study in the 
analysis of AUC0-t (p=0.0116) and AUC0-inf (p=0.0144). No objective explanation could be given for 
this  period  effect.  It  is  possible  that  the  observed  effect  is  due  solely  to  chance.  The  least-squares 
means of the formulation effect were adjusted for the period effect. The final results are not influenced 
by the statistically period effect noticed for these parameters. 
With regard to the individual plasma concentration time profiles, it was noted that the concentrations 
values  measured  for  two  subjects  in  period  I  appeared  to  have  spurious  concentration  at  four  hours 
post-dose. This was explained by a possible sample switch, and a graphical analysis switching theses 
values in the profiles was performed to support this assumption. An additional statistical analysis was 
performed with the measured values for the lamivudine concentration at 4 hours post-dose in period I 
switched between these two subjects. It was confirmed that also in this analysis the 90% confidence 
intervals  of  the  relative  mean  plasma  lamivudine  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference 
product were within the 80-125% range. 
11/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
There were 29 adverse events (11 with the test product and 18 with the reference product) involving 
15  subjects  in the study.  All adverse  events  were  mild.  18 events  were  considered  unrelated and 11 
events possibly related.  
One subject had a bruised left hand finger after period I dosing. The subject was not dismissed from 
the  study,  but  deemed  lost  to  follow  up.  Another  subject  experienced  serious  adverse  events. These 
occurred after the completion of the clinical portion of the study and were considered not related to the 
product. 
None of the AEs was considered to have a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the 
integrity of the study results. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Lamivudine  Teva  is  considered  bioequivalent  with 
Epivir.  The  results  of  study  2008-1715  with  the  300  mg  film-coated  tablet  formulation  can  be 
extrapolated  to  other  strengths  of  100  mg,  according  to  conditions  in  Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), section 5.4. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic data have been provided by the applicant. These data are not required for 
this particular application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
3.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
The  application  is  based  on  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
specific risk minimization activities have been identified. Therefore, a risk management plan was not 
considered necessary for this generic medicinal product. 
•  User consultation 
The  results  of  user  consultation  provided  indicates  that  the  Package  leaflet  is  well  structured  and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
12/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
A  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  –  randomized,  two-sequence,  two-period,  two-treatment,  cross-
over  study  under  fasting  conditions  –  has  been  conducted  with  the  300  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The 
design of the study is considered adequate.  
The sampling period of 24 hours is sufficient to characterize the plasma concentration-time profile and 
to ensure measurements over a period of at least 5 half-lives based on the minimum expected t½ of 5 
hours.  Blood sample  timing  is  appropriate  to  allow  an  accurate  measurement  of  Tmax.  The  wash-out 
period of 7 days is long enough to avoid any carry over effect to the second period.  
The 90% confidence intervals of AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax of the test to reference product were within 
the 80-125% range hence bioequivalence is concluded. The same statistical outcome was observed if 
the obtained values for the two subjects at 4 hours post-dose in period I, where an inadvertent switch is 
assumed, were switched. An observed statistical period effect did not impact on the final outcome and 
is considered a chance finding.  
A  biowaiver  was  applied  for  the  100  mg  strength,  which  is  subject  to  the  present  application.  The 
conditions for a biowaiver (same manufacturer and process, linearity over the therapeutic range, same 
qualitative  composition,  same  ratio  between  amounts  of  active  substance  and  excipients,  similar 
dissolution  profile  under  identical  conditions)  have  been  fulfilled.  Regarding  the  dissolution 
characteristics,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  dissolution  is  not  a  rate-limiting  step  due  to  the  high 
solubility of lamivudine and the solubility of lamivudine, which is practically pH independent. It was 
noted  that  the  reference  product  used  for  the  bioequivalence  study  is  different  from  the  reference 
product  for  the  SPC;  any  potential  differences  between  these  formulations  have  been  taken  into 
account and were considered acceptable for the application of the biowaiver concept. Therefore, it is 
concluded  that  the  biowaiver  for  the  100  mg  film-coated  tablet  is  acceptable  and  that  no  dedicated 
bioequivalence study is required. 
3.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality data. No new nonclinical data have been presented but an 
acceptable summary  of  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  of  lamivudine  has  been 
provided.  This  is  considered  acceptable.  From  a  clinical  perspective,  an  appropriate  summary  of 
publicly  available  information  regarding  the  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamics  properties  as 
well as the clinical efficacy and safety profile of lamivudine for the treatment of HBV infection has 
been presented. 
The pivotal basis of this application is a bioequivalence study conducted with a single dose in fasting 
state against a reference product. The overall study design as well as the bioanalytical methods were 
acceptable  for  this  purpose.  Based  on  the  statistical  analysis  of  the  obtained  pharmacokinetic  data, 
bioequivalence  between the  test  and  the  reference  product  can  be  concluded  as  the  90% confidence 
intervals  of  the  relative  mean  plasma  lamivudine  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference 
product were within the 80-125% range. This study was conducted with the 300 mg film-coated tablet 
whereas the strength applied for is the 100 mg film-coated tablet. Since the applicable criteria related 
to  the  manufacturing  of  the  product  as  well  as  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  are  fulfilled,  the 
application  of  the  biowaiver  concept  is  acceptable  hence  bioequivalence  can  be  considered 
demonstrated for this formulation. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
13/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  available  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
Lamivudine Teva in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with:  
•  compensated  liver  disease  with  evidence  of  active  viral  replication,  persistently  elevated  serum 
alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active  liver  inflammation 
and/or fibrosis.  
•  decompensated liver disease.  
was positive and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
14/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
