European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref: EMEA/787155/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Lamivudine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001111 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 7 
Clinical Aspects ....................................................................................................................... 8 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 12 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation...................................... 13 
2/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  5  December  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.,  in 
accordance with the centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 
726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 150 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo group Ltd 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 08.08.1996 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Community 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/96/015/001 (Bottle), EU/1/96/015/004 (Blister) 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 300 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo group Ltd 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 08.08.1996 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Community 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/96/015/003 (Bottle), EU/1/96/015/005 (Blister) 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 150 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo group Ltd 
(cid:131)     Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/96/015/001 (Bottle), EU/1/96/015/004 (Blister) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Community 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 300 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo group Ltd 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/96/015/003 (Bottle), EU/1/96/015/005 (Blister) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Community 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Epivir 300 mg film-coated tablets 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Glaxo group Ltd 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 08.08.1996 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Community 
(cid:131) 
(Community) Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/96/015/003 (Bottle),  
 EU/1/96/015/005 (Blister) 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number(s): 2008-1715  
3/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Dr Demolis 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 5 December 2008.  
The procedure started on 24 December 2008. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 26 March 
2009.  
During the meeting on April 2009, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on  
23 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 July 
2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 11 September 2009.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009  ,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. on 24 September 2009.  
The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-
authorisation on 22 September 2009. 
4/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  lamivudine  as  an  active 
substance. It is available in 150 mg and 300 mg film-coated tablets. The product is intended for the 
treatment of HIV infection. For this application, the reference medicinal product is Epivir. 
Lamivudine  is  a  pyrimidine  nucleoside  analogue  and  is  used  as  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase 
inhibitor  (NRTI)  for  the  combination  treatment  of  HIV  infection.  After  intracellular  uptake,  it  is 
sequentially phosphorylated by host cell intracellular kinases to its respective 5’-triphosophates (TP). 
Thereafter,  the  monophosphate  compound  is  inserted  into  the  DNA  transcript  by  the  viral  enzyme 
reverse  transcriptase  (RT).  Due  to  lack  of  a  3’-OH  group,  the  nucleic  acid  strand  extension  is 
terminated.  Lamivudine  is  also  a  competitive  inhibitor  of  the  viral  RT.  Its  specific  activity  against 
HIV is mainly related to its selectivity for dividing cells and its high affinity for viral RT.  
The  safety  and  efficacy  profile  of  lamivudine  for  the  treatment  of  HIV  infection  has  been 
demonstrated  in  several  clinical  trials,  details  of  which  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  of  the  reference 
medicinal  product.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing  experience  contributing  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  clinical  use  of  this  active  substance.  Since  this  application  is  generic  application 
referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Epivir,  the  pivotal  basis  is  the  demonstration  of 
bioequivalence. 
The indication proposed for Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is the same as authorised for the reference 
medicinal product, which is indicated as part of antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment 
of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected adults and children. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 300 mg and 150 mg lamivudine, 
respectively. 
Other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: Microcrystalline cellulose, Sodium starch glycolate (Type A), Magnesium Stearate 
Film coating: Hypromellose 3cP, Hypromellose 6cP, Titanium dioxide E171, Macrogol 400, 
Polysorbate 80, Iron oxide yellow (E172), Iron oxide black (E172) 
The film-coated tablets are packed in PVC/PVdC – Aluminium blisters or HDPE tablet-containers 
with polyethylene child resistant screw cap with induction seal. 
Active Substance 
The drug substance lamivudine is described in the Ph. Eur.  
Lamivudine is a white or almost white powder that is soluble in water, sparingly soluble in methanol 
and  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol.  Its  chemical  name  is  4-amino-1-[(2R,5S)-2-(hydroxymethyl]-1,3-
oxathiolan-5-yl]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one  hydrate  (5:1).  Lamivudine  possesses  two  asymmetric  carbons 
and is expected to be optically active. Lamivudine exist in two polymorphic forms. 
•  Manufacture 
Lamivudine is manufactured in two steps. 
The information on the manufacturing process is provided in the ASMF. Adequate in-process controls 
are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The  specifications  and  control methods 
5/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents  have  been  presented  and  are  satisfactory. 
Polymorphic forms and optical isomerism are controlled during manufacture. 
• 
Specification 
The  specifications  of  the  drug  substance  include:  Description  (Ph  Eur),  Solubility  (Ph  Eur), 
Identification:  Specific  optical  rotation,  IR  and  enantiomeric  purity  (Ph  Eur),  Polymorphic 
identification:  XRPD  and  DSC  (Ph  Eur),  Absorbance  (Ph  Eur),  Related  substances  (Ph  Eur), 
Enantiomeric  purity  (Ph  Eur),  Heavy  metals  (Ph  Eur),  Water  content  (Ph  Eur),  Sulphated  ash  (Ph 
Eur), Assay: HPLC (Ph Eur) and Residual solvents (GC).  
Batch  analysis  data  (n=3)  of  the  active  substance  are  provided.  The  results  are  within  the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch.  
• 
Stability 
The stability studies have been carried out on four batches of active substance in long-term conditions 
(30ºC/65% RH) and in accelerated conditions (40ºC/75% RH). The data cover a period of 6 to 9 
months in long-term conditions and 6 months in accelerated conditions. The stability samples have 
been stored in a mini-size simulation of the original packaging. 
Parameters tested during stability studies are characterisation, identification (IR), polymorph identity 
(XRPD), related substance (HPLC), water content and assay. 
Forced degradation studies were performed by treatment with heat, light (UV light and visible light), 
under acidic and alkaline conditions, under oxidizing, reduction and hydrolysis conditions. 
The stability results support the proposed retest period. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  immediate-release  tablets  containing 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  as  the  reference  medicinal  product.  The 
dissolution tests described for the finished product were used as discriminating tests in order to select 
suitable formulations. 
Different  manufacturing  processes  for  Lamivudine  tablets  (direct  compression  and  wet  granulation) 
were tested. Ultimately, the direct compression process was chosen based on appearance and quality 
attributes of the product, as well as the simplicity and effectiveness of this process. 
A  breakable  tablet  was  chosen  for  the  150mg  strength  in  order  to  be  in  line  with  the  reference 
medicinal product and to allow the recommended dose in children. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch 
glycolate (Type A), magnesium stearate; film coating: hypromellose 3cP, hypromellose 6cP, titanium 
dioxide E171, macrogol 400, polysorbate 80, iron oxide yellow E172, iron oxide black E172. 
All the excipients are tested according to the current European Pharmacopoeial specifications except 
the colorants which are tested as per in-house methods. 
Tablets  are  packaged  either  with  PVC/  PVdC  -  Aluminium  blisters  or HDPE tablet-containers with 
child  resistant  screw  cap.  The  suppliers  declare  that  their  materials  comply  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  and 
Commission  Directive  2002/72/EC  as  amended  (relating  to  plastic  materials  intended  to  come  into 
contact with foodstuffs). 
6/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  direct  compression.  The  manufacturing  is  divided  into  7 
main steps: initial blending, intermediate blending, final blending, lubrification, compression, coating 
and packaging. The process validation protocol was provided and it is satisfactory. 
The manufacturing process will be validated according to this protocol on three consecutive 
production batches and after any major change of the process or equipment used. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  finished product specifications include appropriate tests for description, identification of active 
substance (HPLC, UV), identification of Opadry colorants (HPLC), subdivision for 150 mg strength 
(Ph  Eur),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph  Eur),  dissolution  (Ph  Eur),  assay  (HPLC), 
impurities/degradation products (HPLC) and microbial limit test (Ph Eur).  
Batch  analysis  results  (n=2  for  300mg  and  n=5  for  150  mg)  confirm  consistency  and  uniformity of 
manufacture and indicate that the process is under control.  
• 
Stability of the Product 
Seven  pilot  batches  (n=5  for  150mg  and  n=2  for  300mg)  of  the  finished  product  packed  in  the 
intended  for  marketing  primary  packaging  (blisters  and  HDPE  tablet-containers)  were  put  on  long-
term (25°C/60%RH) for up to 12 months, and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) for up to 6 months stability 
testing  ICH  conditions.  The  following  parameters  were  tested:  description,  assay,  dissolution, 
impurities/degradation products, and microbiological quality. 
The results support the shelf life as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CMHP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and 
committed to resolve these as Follow Up measures after the opinion within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
No  new  non-clinical  data  were  submitted  in  support  of  this  application.  The  applicant  provided  an 
acceptable  summary  of  the  pharmacological,  pharmacodynamic  and  toxicological  properties  of 
lamivudine  from  recent  literature  sources  and  on  a  literature  research  for  recent  non-clinical 
information relevant to the safety of lamivudine. The non-clinical aspects of the SPC are in line with 
the SPC of the reference product. No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why 
no such data were provided. 
The impurity profile has been discussed and it was concluded that there are no significant differences 
between the impurity profiles of the generic product and reference products. The applicant provided a 
suitable  justification  for  the  absence  of  a  formal  environmental  risk  assessment,  based  on  the 
expectation  that  introduction  of  these  generic  products  onto  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  an 
increase  in  the  combined  sales  of  all  lamivudine-containing  products,  which  in  turn  is  unlikely  to 
increase exposure of the environment to lamivudine. 
7/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
This  is  an  abridged  application  for  film-coated  tablets  containing  300  mg  and  150  mg  lamivudine, 
respectively.  To  support  the  marketing  authorisation  the  applicant  conducted  a  single  dose 
bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions using the 300 mg strength. This 
study  was  the  pivotal  study  for  the assessment. For the 150 mg strength the applicant applied for a 
biowaiver. 
A clinical overview was provided summarising the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  lamivudine  based  on  a literature search; this overview was considered 
adequate. The SPC is in line with the SPC of the reference product. 
No  formal  scientific  advice  by  the  CHMP  was  given  for  this  medicinal  product.  For  the  clinical 
assessment  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98)  in  its  current  version  as  well  as  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  Guidelines  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  are  of  particular 
relevance. 
GCP: 
The  pivotal  study  was  complying  with  GCP,  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  The  applicant  provided a 
statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trial  2008-1715  was  conducted  outside  the  community  and  was 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption 
The applicant requested a biowaiver for the conduct of a bioequivalence study for the 150 mg strength 
based  on  the  following  justification  related  to  the  comparison  with  the  300  mg  strength  as  well  as 
characteristics of the active substance: 
Both  strengths  of  the  generic  medicinal  product  are  manufactured  by  the  same  manufacturer  and 
process, have the same qualitative composition, same ratio between amounts of active substance and 
excipients,  and  similar  dissolution  profile  under  identical  conditions.  Adequate  dissolution  profiles 
were  provided.  From  a  pharmacokinetic  view  point,  lamivudine  shows  dose-linearity  over  the 
therapeutic range. 
A bioequivalence study was conducted with the 300 mg strength. Based on the above information and 
taking  into  account  the criteria laid out in the applicable Note for Guidance, the CHMP considered 
that a bioequivalence study with the 150 mg strength is not necessary. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study; the details of this 
study are summarised in Table 1. 
8/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Summary of study 2008-1715 
Objective(s) of the 
Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage Regimen; 
Route of 
Administration 
Number of 
Subjects 
Determination of 
bioavailability 
between a generic 
medicinal product 
and a reference 
product under 
fasting conditions 
Open-label, 
randomized, 
two period, 
two sequence, 
two treatment, 
crossover 
study 
Two film-coated 
tablet 
formulations, 
300 mg, oral 
40 enrolled 
(38 comple-
ted) 
Healthy 
Subjects 
or 
Diagnosis 
of Patients 
Healthy 
subjects 
Duration 
of Treat-
ment 
Single-
dose  
Pharmacokinetics  
•  Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study  2008-1715  was  an  open  label,  randomised  two-treatment,  two-period,  two-sequence,  single-
dose, crossover study conducted under fasting conditions. 
The  subjects  were  confined  to  the  clinical  facility  for  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  each  drug 
administration  until  24  hours  after  dosing.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  of  two  dosing 
sequences.  
In each period, an optional pre-study snack was provided to each subject after check-in and prior to 
fasting.  Subjects  fasted  overnight  for  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  drug  administration  and  for  at  least 
4 hours  following  drug  administration.  Study  drugs  were  administered  with  240  ml  of  room 
temperature  potable  water.  Standardized  xanthine-free  meals  with  caffeine-free  beverages  were 
provided  to  subjects  at  least  4  hours  after  drug  administration  in  each  period.  Other  standardized 
meals were served throughout the remainder of the confinement period. Other than the optional pre-
study snack and the protocol specified meals, subjects were not allowed any other food or drink while 
confined in the clinic. With the exception of the water ingested during drug administration, water was 
not allowed from 2 hours prior to drug administration, until 2 hours post-dose. 
Concentrations  of  lamivudine  were  measured  from  samples  collected  over  a  24-hour  interval  after 
dosing in each period. Blood samples were collected pre-dosing and at 0.17, 0.33, 0.5, 0.67, 0.83, 1, 
1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16 and 24 hours post-dosing.  
The washout interval between both periods was 7 days. 
The  clinical  part  of  the  study,  the  bioanalytical  analyses  as  well  as  the  statistical  analyses  were 
performed by contract research organisations. 
The study protocol and consent form were reviewed and approved by an ethics review board. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS: 
Lamivudine 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Test Product: 
TEVA Pharm. Works Private Ltd, Hungary 
Manufactured by: 
Batch No.: 
0110408 
Manufacturing date:  04/2008 
9/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference Product:  Epivir 300 mg, film-coated tablets 
Manufactured by: 
Batch No.: 
Expiry date:  
Glaxo Smith Kline, France 
R314477 
06/2010 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
40  healthy  volunteers,  male  and  female,  18-55  years  of  age,  with  a  BMI  between  19  and  30 
(inclusive),  were  randomised  and  enrolled  into  the  study  in  order  to  allow  for  dropouts  and 
withdrawals. The mean demographic data for all enrolled subjects are presented in Table 2. 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria were acceptable for the product and for this type of study. Subjects 
abstained  from  ingesting  products  containing  grapefruit,  alcohol,  caffeine,  and/or  xanthine  for 
48 hours  prior  to  each  drug  administration  and  until  after  the  last  sample  from  each  period  was 
collected.  Subjects  were  not  allowed  to  use  any  medications  (prescription  or  over-the-counter), 
herbal/natural  products  and  nutritional  supplements  for  the  14  days  preceding  drug  administration 
until  completion  of  the  entire  study.  Hormonal  contraceptives,  non-systemic,  topically  applied 
products (prescription or otherwise) or occasional use of common analgesics were allowed. 
38 subjects completed the study and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
Table 2 
Summary of mean demographic data for enrolled subject (N = 40) 
Mean 
+/- SD 
Median 
Range 
Age (years) 
35 
10 
35 
20-54 
Height (cm) 
167.7 
8.7 
168.5 
151.0-187.0 
Weight (kg) 
70.5 
12.5 
67.7 
49.8-95.5 
BMI (kg/m2) 
24.9 
2.9 
25.4 
19.1-29.8 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The blood samples were analyzed using a LC-MS/MS Technique.  
The analytical method was considered adequately validated. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf,  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  determined.  AUC  was 
calculated  by  the  trapezoidal  rule.  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  directly  estimated  from  the  individual 
concentration time profiles. 
STATISTICAL METHODS 
The statistical analysis was performed using SAS software. 
Descriptive statistics were estimated for the pharmacokinetic parameters in each treatment. The least 
square  means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments  least  square  means,  and  the  corresponding 
standard errors of these differences were estimated for log-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. 
ANOVA was performed on the ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. In addition, ANOVA was 
applied  to  untransformed  Kel  and  T1/2  parameters.  The  ANOVA  model  included  sequence,  subject 
nested  within  sequence,  period  and  treatment.  Based  on  these  statistics,  the  ratios  of  the  geometric 
means  for  treatments  and  the  corresponding  90%  confidence  intervals  were  calculated.  For  the 
the  ratio 
bioequivalence  conclusion 
(Test/Reference) of least square means from the ln-transformed values for AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax 
had to be within the range of 80-125%.  
that  90%  geometric 
it  was  predefined 
intervals  of 
10/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-transformed Tmax was tested using the non parametric Wilcoxon test. 
The statistical methods were adequately described and were deemed acceptable. There were no major 
protocol deviations. 
• 
Results 
38  out  of  40  enrolled  subjects  completed  the  study  and  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical data analysis. Two subjects were excluded during the conduct of the study for the following 
reasons:  
-  One  subject  was  tested  positive  for  cotinine  (exclusion  criteria)  at  period  II  check-in  and  was 
therefore dismissed for non-compliance; 
-  One subject experienced nausea and loose stool after period II and was dismissed without being 
dosed. 
At the beginning of period II, all pre-dose concentrations were below LLOQ except for one subject 
where pre-dose concentration was lower than 5% for Cmax. 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  obtained  in  the  38  subjects  who  were  included  in  the  analysis  are 
presented  in  Table  3.  The  results  of  the  statistical  analysis  for  ln-transformed  data  are  displayed  in 
Table 4. 
Table 3 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of study 2008-1715 (non-transformed values) 
N 
38 
Test 
Mean* 
14269.42 
SD** 
20 
N 
38 
38 
19 
38 
38 
3672.89 
14538.32 
AUC0-t 
[ng×h/ml] 
AUC0-∞ 
[ng×h/ml] 
Cmax  
[ng/ml] 
Tmax  
[h] 
AUC0-∞  Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax  
Maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
Time for maximum concentration 
Arithmetic mean 
* 
Standard deviation 
** 
1.19 
27 
38 
38 
38 
47 
Reference 
Mean* 
13926.42 
14212.01 
3673.95 
1.27 
SD** 
21 
20 
26 
74 
Table 4 
Statistical analysis of study 2008-1715 (ln-transformed data) 
Parameter 
Ratio of geometric 
means (%) 
101.93 
Lower 
98.20 
AUC0-t 
(ng×h/ml) 
AUC0-∞ 
(ng×h/ml) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
* 90% confidence intervals based on ln transformed values. 
101.81 
99.19 
93.44 
98.29 
90% CI* 
Upper 
105.80 
105.45 
105.30 
Intra-subject 
CV (%) 
10 
9 
16 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  ratio  of  geometric  means  of  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  (ln-
transformed data) are within the limits of 80% to 125%. 
11/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A statistically significant difference (α =0.05) was detected between the two periods of the study in 
the analysis of AUC0-t (p=0.0116) and AUC0-inf (p=0.0144). No objective explanation could be given 
for this period effect. It is possible that the observed effect is due solely to chance. The least-squares 
means  of  the  formulation  effect  were  adjusted  for  the  period  effect.  The  final  results  are  not 
influenced by the statistically period effect noticed for these parameters. 
With regard to the individual plasma concentration time profiles, it was noted that the concentrations 
values  measured  for  two  subjects  in  period  I  appeared to have spurious concentration at four hours 
post-dose. This was explained by a possible sample switch, and a graphical analysis switching theses 
values in the profiles was performed to support this assumption. An additional statistical analysis was 
performed with the measured values for the lamivudine concentration at 4 hours post-dose in period I 
switched between these two subjects. It was confirmed that also in this analysis the 90% confidence 
intervals  of  the  relative  mean  plasma  lamivudine  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference 
product were within the 80-125% range. 
Safety data 
There were 29 adverse events (11 with the test product and 18 with the reference product) involving 
15 subjects in the study. All adverse events were mild. 18 events were considered unrelated and 11 
events possibly related.  
One subject had a bruised left hand finger after period I dosing. The subject was not dismissed from 
the study, but deemed lost to follow up. Another  subject experienced serious adverse events. These 
occurred after the completion of the clinical portion of the study and were considered not related to 
the product. 
None of the AEs was considered to have a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the 
integrity of the study results. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the 300-mg strength Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is 
considered  bioequivalent  with  Epivir.  The  results  of  study  2008-1715  with  the  300  mg  film-coated 
tablet formulation can be extrapolated to other strengths of 150 mg, according to conditions in Note 
for 
Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), section 5.4. 
Bioavailability 
Investigation 
Guidance 
and 
the 
on 
of 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic data have been provided by the applicant. These data are not required for 
this particular application. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131) 
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131) 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
12/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
(cid:131) 
Risk Management Plan 
The  application  is  based  on  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
specific risk minimization activities have been identified. Therefore, a risk management plan was not 
considered necessary for this generic medicinal product. 
• 
User consultation 
The  results  of  user  consultation  provided  indicates  that  the  Package  leaflet  is  well  structured  and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
A  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  –  randomized,  two-sequence,  two-period,  two-treatment,  cross-
over  study  under  fasting  conditions  – has been conducted with the 300 mg film-coated tablets. The 
design of the study is considered adequate.  
The  sampling  period  of  24  hours  is  sufficient  to  characterize  the  plasma  concentration-time  profile 
and to ensure measurements over a period of at least 5 half-lives based on the minimum expected t½ of 
5 hours. Blood sample timing is appropriate to allow an accurate measurement of Tmax. The wash-out 
period of 7 days is long enough to avoid any carry over effect to the second period.  
The  90%  confidence  intervals  of  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference  product  were 
within  the  80-125%  range  hence  bioequivalence  is  concluded.  The  same  statistical  outcome  was 
observed  if  the  obtained  values  for  the  two  subjects  at  4  hours  post-dose  in  period  I,  where  an 
inadvertent switch is assumed, were switched. An observed statistical period effect did not impact on 
the final outcome and is considered a chance finding.  
A  biowaiver  was  applied  for  the  150  mg  strength,  which  is  subject  to  the  present  application.  The 
conditions for a biowaiver (same manufacturer and process, linearity over the therapeutic range, same 
qualitative  composition,  same  ratio  between  amounts  of  active  substance  and  excipients,  similar 
dissolution  profile  under  identical  conditions)  have  been  fulfilled.  Regarding  the  dissolution 
characteristics,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  dissolution  is  not  a  rate-limiting  step  due  to  the  high 
solubility of lamivudine and the fact that the solubility of lamivudine is practically pH independent. 
Therefore, it is concluded that the biowaiver for the 150 mg film-coated tablet is acceptable and that 
no dedicated bioequivalence study is required. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality data. No new nonclinical data have been presented but an 
acceptable summary of the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of lamivudine has been 
provided.  This  is  considered  acceptable.  From  a  clinical  perspective,  an  appropriate  summary  of 
publicly  available  information  regarding  the  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamics  properties  as 
well as the clinical efficacy and safety profile of lamivudine for the treatment of HIV infection has 
been presented. 
The pivotal basis of this application is a bioequivalence study conducted with a single dose in fasting 
state against a reference product. The overall study design as well as the bioanalytical methods were 
acceptable  for  this  purpose.  Based  on  the  statistical  analysis  of  the  obtained  pharmacokinetic  data, 
bioequivalence between the test and the reference product can be concluded as the 90% confidence 
intervals  of  the  relative  mean  plasma  lamivudine  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference 
product  were  within  the  80-125%  range.  This  study  was  conducted  with  the  300  mg  film-coated 
tablet.  In  addition,  the  strength  of  150  mg  film-coated  tablet  was  applied  for.  Since  the  applicable 
13/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
criteria  related  to  the  manufacturing  of  the  product  as  well  as  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  are 
fulfilled,  the  application  of  the  biowaiver  concept  is  acceptable  hence  bioequivalence  can  be 
considered demonstrated for this formulation. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  available  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  as  part  of  antiretroviral  combination  therapy  for  the  treatment  of 
Human  Immunodeficiency  Virus  (HIV)  infected  adults  and  children  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
14/14 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
