EMA/583601/2016 
EMEA/H/C/001111 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. 
lamivudine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. 
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. 
What is Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V.? 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is an antiviral medicine containing the active substance lamivudine. It is 
available as tablets (150 and 300 mg). 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is 
similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Epivir. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. used for? 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is used in combination with other antiviral medicines to treat adults and 
children infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. used? 
Treatment with Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. should be initiated by a doctor who has experience in 
the management of HIV infection. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. for adults and children weighing at least 25 
kg is 300 mg a day. This can be taken either as a single daily dose or divided into 150 mg twice a day. 
In children weighing less than 25 kg the recommended dose depends on their weight.  
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. tablets should ideally be swallowed without crushing. Patients who 
cannot swallow tablets should use an oral solution of lamivudine, or alternatively they may crush the 
tablets and add them to a small amount of food or drink immediately before swallowing it. The dose of 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. needs to be adjusted in patients who have severe problems with their 
kidneys. An oral solution of lamivudine can be used to achieve the appropriate dose. For more 
information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. work? 
The active substance in Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V., lamivudine, is a nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI). It works by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme 
needed by HIV to produce the genetic instructions for making more viruses once it has infected the 
cell. Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V., taken in combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces the 
amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. does not cure 
HIV infection or AIDS, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and avoid the development of 
infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. been studied? 
Because Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to 
tests to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Epivir. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V.? 
Because Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Epivir. Therefore, the CHMP’s view 
was that, as for Epivir, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. be given marketing authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V.? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet.   
Other information about Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Lamivudine 
Teva Pharma B.V. on 10 December 2009.  
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V.  
EMA/583601/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V., read the package leaflet (also part of 
the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2016. 
Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V.  
EMA/583601/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
