19 April 2012 
EMA/CHMP/158966/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Lantus 
insulin glargine   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000284/II/0075 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
Ab 
AE 
AIA 
BG 
BID 
antibody 
adverse event 
anti-insulin antibodies 
blood glucose 
twice daily 
CGM 
Continuous Glucose Monitoring 
CGMS   
Continuous Glucose Monitoring System 
CI 
EMA 
FSBG 
GCP 
confidence interval 
European Medicines Agency 
fingerstick blood glucose 
Good Clinical Practice 
HbA1c   
glycated hemoglobin A1c 
IP 
investigational product 
ISPAD   
International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes 
LOQ 
MAH 
MDI 
mITT 
NPH 
limit of quantification 
Marketing Organisation Holder 
multiple daily injection (insulin treatment) 
modified intent-to-treat (population) 
Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (insulin) 
PDCO 
Paediatric Committee (of the European Medicines Agency) 
PD 
PIP 
PK 
QD 
SC 
SD 
pharmacodynamic(s) 
Pediatric Investigational Plan 
pharmacokinetic(s) 
once daily 
subcutaneous(ly) 
standard deviation 
SOC 
System Organ Class 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
T1DM 
TEAE 
U 
type 1 diabetes mellitus 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
unit 
Assessment report  
Page 2/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Insulin glargine is 21A-Gly-31B-32B-Di-Arg human insulin, a recombinant (Escherichia coli [E coli]) 
analog of human insulin. Insulin glargine can be considered a 21A-Gly substituted analog of 31B-32B-
Di-Arg human insulin, a final intermediate of the maturation of proinsulin to human insulin.  
Insulin glargine is indicated for the treatment of adults, adolescents, and children of 6 years or above 
with diabetes mellitus, where treatment with insulin is required. 
Approval for the marketing of insulin glargine was granted in June 2000 in Europe. Lantus (insulin 
glargine) is currently registered and marketed in more than 100 countries worldwide. 
The MAH is requesting an indication extension for Lantus for paediatric population age 1 to less than 6 
years old. In support of this variation the MAH submitted one Clinical Study EFC11202 (PRESCHOOL). 
The study design of this trial was developed in light of the recommendation of the Paediatric 
Committee (PDCO), and to expand the indication of insulin glargine into the preschool age range (age 
1 to less than 6 years) of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Its design was proposed in the 
modified Pediatric Investigational Plan (PIP). 
1.2.  Quality  aspects 
N/A 
1.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
The applicant claims for Environmental risk assessment (ERA) exemption in conformity with the ERA 
guideline since the marketing authorization request concerns an analogue of a naturally occurring 
protein. Insulin glargine is significantly metabolized in-vivo and is expected to be readily and rapidly 
degraded in wastewater treatment systems and in the environment. The peptide’s structure and mode 
of action do not indicate any specific risk to the environment. 
As such, no additional special precautionary and safety measures need to be imposed regarding the 
environmental release from use in patients or from disposal of unused products or waste material 
derived from the product. 
The CHMP is in agreement with this justification. 
1.4.  Clinical Pharmacology aspects 
1.4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted and results 
In the clinical efficacy and safety study in children aged 1 – 6 years EFC11202 the pharmacokinetics 
were estimated. It was a 24-weeks study, in which insulin glargine was compared to NPH insulin. For a 
comprehensive description of the study, see section 2.5.1. 
Following randomization, trial basal insulin was initiated and up-titrated within the first 12 weeks to 
reach a stable dose. Single blood samples were drawn on 3 occasions in Weeks 1, 2, and 4, before 
dosing in the morning. Free insulin glargine (parent compound) and insulin glargine metabolites M1 
and M2 in plasma were determined with a lower limit of quantification (LOQ) of 0.2 ng/mL. 
Plasma concentrations were classified as Ctrough values if blood samples were taken prior or at time of 
insulin glargine dosing at Week 1, Week 2 or Week 4 and if the previous insulin glargine dose was 
administered 24±6 hours prior to PK blood sampling. Timing of meal time (bolus) insulins were not 
Assessment report  
Page 3/36
 
 
 
 
 
taken into consideration, because of the specificity of the bioanalytical assay for insulin glargine parent 
compound and its metabolites M1 and M2 with no cross-reactivity with other insulins. 
Descriptive statistics on Ctrough data for insulin glargine parent compound and metabolites M1 and M2 
by visit are summarized in the table below. 
Summary of plasma concentrations of insulin glargine parent compound, 
metabolite M1 and metabolite M2 (Ctrough) by visit 
In study TDR11626, 30 adult patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (divided into two study cohorts) 
with an age range 24 – 57 years [mean (SD): 43.3 (8.7) years] were investigated using the identical 
bioanalytical method. In this study 0.4U/kg of insulin glargine (U100) was used in both cohorts. Trough 
concentrations were determined at day 1 through 8 (and in addition 24hours after dosing at day 8).  
Mean M1 Ctrough values in the two cohorts ranged from 0.288 to 0.521 ng/mL, and after one week of 
treatment at day 8 mean M1 Ctrough was: 0.437 and 0.455 ng/mL, respectively. 
As for the children, parent compound and metabolite M2 were below LLOQ except for only a few 
individual samples in some patients (in 2 patients for parent compound and 1 patient for M2) that were 
above LLOQ. 
Assessment report  
Page 4/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This comparison demonstrates that the plasma concentration pattern in the children (1 – 6 years) is 
qualitatively and quantitatively similar to the adults. 
1.4.2.  Discussion 
The pharmacokinetic information from this study is considered minimal. The uncertainty in the 
measured Ctrough values is large with coefficients of variation of more than 150% in the values of the 
main metabolite M1. This high variability may be due to the variability in dose, the number of clinical 
sites used in this study. The only conclusion that can be drawn from these results is that there is no 
accumulation of the main metabolite (M1) of insulin glargine after multiple dosing. 
The pharmacokinetic information with respect to the measured Ctrough values in adults and children 
was provided. From this comparison can be concluded that the trough concentrations are comparable 
between both groups of patients. However this comparison is considered of low value due to the large 
variability in both groups. 
The statement in the section 5.2 of the proposed SmPC “revealing plasma concentration patterns 
similar to adults” has been supported. 
1.5.  Clinical Efficacy aspects  
1.5.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study EFC11202 was a 24-Week multinational, multicenter, randomised, open-label, 2 parallel arms, 
Phase 3b study comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin glargine (Lantus) as basal insulin, 
administered once daily before breakfast, versus Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin 
administered 1 or 2 times daily in children with T1DM aged at least 1 year to less than 6 years. 
The study consisted of 3 phases (see figure below): a screening period of 2 to 4-weeks; a 24-week 
treatment period; and a posttreatment observation period of 2 weeks. 
At randomisation (Visit 2), the patients were stratified with respect to their baseline HbA1c level 
(<8.5% or ≥8.5%) and hypoglycaemic event rate (number of hypoglycaemic excursions <0.5 or ≥0.5 
events per 24 hours, measured with Continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS)). 
Following randomisation, trial basal insulin was initiated and up-titrated within the first 12 weeks to 
reach a stable dose. Patients in both groups received multiple daily injection regimens with insulin 
lispro or regular human insulin before main meals (snacks) and/or at bedtime. 
Inclusion criteria: Children diagnosed with T1DM at least 1 year before the study start (in order to 
eliminate fluctuating insulin requirements due to the initial period of T1DM), aged 1 to less than 6 
years, having HbA1c at screening not >12% and not <6%, and not taking antihyperglycaemic 
medications other than insulin. Children had also to have been taking MDI insulin treatment for T1DM 
for at least 2 months. 
Study medication: Insulin (both glargine and NPH) dose was titrated to achieve the following 
International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD)-recommended glycaemic targets 
without hypoglycaemia: 
 
Fasting BG between 90 and 145 mg/dL (5.0 to 8.0 mmol/L), inclusive, 
  Bedtime BG between 120 and 180 mg/dL (6.7 to10.0 mmol/L), inclusive, 
  Nocturnal BG between 80 and 162 mg/dL (4.4 to 9.0 mmol/L), inclusive; and 
  HbA1c <7.5%. 
Assessment report  
Page 5/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration glargine: SC injection once daily (QD) in the morning. 
Administration NPH insulin: SC injection QD or twice daily (BID), in the morning and/or at bedtime. 
The morning time of injection of insulin glargine was chosen because it has been studied and proven to 
be just as effective as if given at dinner or bedtime in adults with T1DM (Study HOE901/4007), and 
because it would permit the in-clinic assessment of insulin glargine PK at “trough” timing relative to 
the next day’s dose (see section III.3.1 Clinical Pharmacology). 
For uniformity, lispro insulin was provided as bolus insulin treatment to all patients, although regular 
human insulin was also allowed as a bolus treatment (though not provided by Sponsor). 
Blood glucose registration was performed using a CGMS. A minimum of 6 days of useable glucose 
values on each of at least 5 occasions during treatment, 2 of which occasions were to occur after Week 
14, were to be captured. Furthermore, Fingerstick Blood Glucose (FSBG) values were recorded. 
Study design Trial EFC11202 
The primary objective was to determine the efficacy of insulin glargine dosed in the morning 
compared to NPH insulin on the rate of “all hypoglycaemia”. 
Secondary objectives were to assess the effects of insulin glargine versus NPH on HbA1c levels; 
safety and tolerability; antibodies; and the PK of insulin glargine over the first 4 weeks of treatment. 
The primary variable (endpoint) was the event rate of “All hypoglycaemia”, which consisted of all 
events occurring in any of the following categories, from the start of treatment with study drug to 24 
hours following the last dose of study drug: 
Assessment report  
Page 6/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CGMS “low” interstitial glucose excursion (<70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L)), confirmed by FSBG 
measurement within a window from 10 minutes before, to 10 minutes following, the low CGMS 
excursion (a “low excursion” was a set of any number of consecutive CGM glucose values <70 
mg/dL); 
 
FSBG values <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L); and 
  Symptomatic hypoglycaemia episodes 
The event rate of “all hypoglycaemia” was defined as the total number of episodes divided by the total 
duration of the on-treatment period in years (events per patient-year). The on-treatment period for 
hypoglycaemia was defined as the time from the first dose of investigational product (IP) up to 24 
hours after the last dose of IP. 
A rule was applied to these events to prevent double-counting, eg, a FSBG value <70 mg/dL that 
confirmed a low CGM excursion would not count a second time in the primary outcome as a low FSBG 
value. No primary outcome event could occur within one hour of an earlier primary outcome event. 
Secondary efficacy variables included: Rates of symptomatic, severe, nocturnal, nocturnal 
symptomatic, and severe nocturnal symptomatic hypoglycaemia; HbA1c at 26 weeks; Percentage of 
patients reaching HbA1c <7.5% at 26 weeks; Average daily BG at 26 weeks, based on CGMS values; 
Percent of BG within the range of 70 – 180 mg/dL (3.9-10 mmol/L), based on CGMS; Average daily BG, 
based on CGMS; Blood glucose variability (mean of individual standard deviations [SD] for all CGMS 
interstitial glucose values); and nocturnal BG variability. 
Safety variables Adverse events (primarily, treatment-emergent adverse events [TEAEs]), changes in 
vital signs and physical examination, and anti-insulin antibodies (AIA) status and titer/binding at 
screening and Weeks 4 and 24 to assess percent conversion from negative to positive. 
Statistical methods: The efficacy analysis population consisted of all randomised patients who 
received at least one dose of the study medication (modified intent-to-treat population). The primary 
analysis investigated the event rate of “all hypoglycaemia” during on-treatment period. The ratio of the 
mean event rates between treatment groups was estimated using the Generalized Linear Model with 
fixed effect terms for randomisation strata (baseline CGMS number of hypoglycaemic excursions, and 
baseline HbA1c) and treatment to compare insulin glargine and NPH insulin. 
A stepwise closed testing approach was used for the primary analysis to assess non-inferiority and 
superiority sequentially. 
Non-inferiority would be demonstrated if the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval (CI) for the 
ratio of the rate of all hypoglycaemia in the glargine group to the rate in the NPH group was <1.15. If 
non-inferiority was demonstrated, superiority would be tested. The tests for the primary endpoint were 
to be performed one-sided at level α = 0.025. The sample size calculation was based on an expected 
overall rate of ”all hypoglycaemia” of 80 events/patient-year of exposure to NPH insulin and 80 
events/patient-year of exposure to insulin glargine. Under this assumption, it was expected that a 
sample size of 70 patients total (ie, 35 patients in each treatment group) would provide adequate 
power to demonstrate that glargine was at least non-inferior to NPH. It was planned to randomise at 
least 45 and up to approximately 60 patients in each of the 2 treatment groups, so that at least 70 
patients would complete the 24 weeks of treatment. 
This study was conducted in 61 centers (72 were initiated) in 16 countries. In total, 54 patients were 
enrolled from European countries. 
A total of 165 patients were screened and 125 were randomised to treatment with insulin glargine or 
NPH insulin in a 1:1 ratio. Forty patients (24.2%) failed the screening selection process, mainly due to 
Assessment report  
Page 7/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
noncompliance with the study required CGM performance and other procedures (17.9%). Out of 125 
randomised patients, 61 were randomised to insulin glargine and 64 to NPH insulin. One patient 
randomised to the NPH group received insulin glargine. This patient was analyzed in the randomised 
treatment group (NPH insulin) for efficacy and in the actually exposed treatment group (insulin 
glargine) for safety. 
Table below summarises the patient disposition for each treatment group. A total of 111 patients 
completed the 24-week study treatment: 57 (93.4%) patients treated with insulin glargine compared 
to 54 (84.4%) patients treated with NPH. Among the completers, 99 patients (48 for insulin glargine 
and 51 for NPH insulin) satisfied the protocol required CGM performance. The mean number of days 
during treatment that the CGM device was worn in the insulin glargine group was 82.5, versus a mean 
of 76.2 days in the NPH group. 
More patients in the NPH group (10 [15.6%]) than in the insulin glargine group (4 [6.6%]) 
prematurely discontinued the 24-week study treatment. For both treatment groups, the main reason 
for treatment discontinuation was “other reasons” (2 [3.3%] for insulin glargine and 6 [9.4%] for NPH 
insulin), the most common “other reason” being unwillingness to comply with the CGM requirements. 
Patient disposition – Randomised population 
In twelve patients in the glargine group (19.7%) and in sixteen patients in the NPH group (25%) 
occurred a stratification error. In total, 14 (23%) irregularities were found in the glargine group, 
versus 18 (28.1%) irregularities in the NPH group. 
As mentioned earlier, one patient randomised to the NPH group received insulin glargine treatment as 
a result of an IP dispensation error. 
Assessment report  
Page 8/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol deviations were predefined as “important” or “other” by the clinical study team. Fifteen 
patients had important protocol deviations: 8 (13.1%) in the insulin glargine group and 7 (10.9%) in 
the NPH insulin group. Of them, 3 concerned a protocol deviation during screening (one patient had a 
medical history of primary seizure disorder and 2 patients did not satisfy the 6 days of useable CGM) 
and 12 deviations concerned the protocol procedures during the treatment period (one patient received 
a wrong randomisation treatment, 2 patients used different bolus insulin [insulin aspart] and 9 patients 
had errors for randomisation stratification in the number of low CGM excursions). 
Twenty-six (13 in each group including dropouts) out of the 125 randomised patients did not fulfill the 
protocol-defined on-treatment CGM requirement (≥5 occasions in between-visit intervals, of which 2 
occasions had to occur after Week 14; and during each of these occasions, at least 1296 usable CGM 
glucose values were to be recorded.). These deviations were classified as “other”. 
The analysis populations, as defined by the protocol, are summarised in table below. The efficacy 
and safety populations of the insulin glargine and NPH insulin groups were of a similar size. 
Summary of analysis populations 
Baseline characteristics 
Demographic characteristics including age, gender, and race were generally comparable between the 
two treatment groups though small disproportions were present, see table below. Of note, more 
children (17 [26.6%]) aged 3 years or younger were in the NPH group than in the glargine group (10 
[16.4%]), and there was a greater percentage of Asian/Oriental patients (11 [17.2%]) in the NPH 
group than in the insulin glargine group (4 [6.6%]). 
Assessment report  
Page 9/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and patient characteristics at baseline – Randomised population 
The average durations of diabetes were equal (2.12 years) in the two treatment groups. The majority 
of the patients (112 [89.6%]) was taking a basal-bolus multiple injection regimen with a few (13 
[10.4%]) on premixed insulin prior to entering the study. The total daily mean (SD) dose of basal 
insulin was 7.29 (4.11) U in the insulin glargine group and 7.61 (4.77) U in the NPH insulin group. The 
total daily mean (SD) dose of bolus insulin was 7.14 (3.64) U in the insulin glargine group and 7.98 
(7.20) U in the NPH insulin group. In the insulin glargine group, the number of multiple injections of 
bolus insulin was higher (21 [34.4%] patients with 2 injections and 5 [8.2%] patients with ≥3 
injections) than in the NPH group (15 [23.4%] patients with 2 injections and 1 [1.6%] patient with ≥3 
injections). 
Baseline HbA1c levels are shown in the table below. Mean HbA1c was slightly lower in the Lantus group 
(8.023%), versus NPH insulin (8.248%). However, the median HbA1c was slightly higher in the Lantus 
group (8.10%), versus NPH group (7.95%). 
Assessment report  
Page 10/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of baseline HbA1c – mITT population 
After signing the informed consent, patients were requested to use CGM, perform FSBG, and report 
any hypoglycaemic event during the screening period. Fifty-six (91.8%) patients in the insulin glargine 
group and 59 (92.2%) patients in the NPH group had at least one “all hypoglycaemia” episode during 
the screening. The average numbers of “all hypoglycaemia” episodes per patient in each treatment 
group were comparable (7.66 for insulin glargine and 8.81 for NPH). 
1.5.2.  Efficacy Results 
Primary analysis 
Over the 24-week on-treatment period, nearly all individuals in each treatment group (98.4% for NPH 
insulin and 100% for insulin glargine) experienced hypoglycaemia (see table below). The analysis of 
“all hypoglycaemia” incidence rate (without any distinction of severity) was 192.75 per patient-year for 
insulin glargine and 168.91 per patient-year for NPH glargine, with an incidence ratio of 1.18 and 95% 
CI of 0.97 to 1.44. 
Based on the criteria for the primary analysis, because the upper bound of the 95% CI of 1.44 was 
greater than the pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 1.15, daily treatment with insulin glargine over 
the 24-week on-treatment period did not demonstrate the pre-specified non-inferiority in the rate of 
“all hypoglycaemia” compared to NPH insulin, both given as basal insulin plus bolus injection with 
short-acting insulin. 
Assessment report  
Page 11/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of “all hypoglycaemia” events during on-treatment period – mITT 
population 
Additional analyses on hypoglycaemia 
The number of bolus insulin injections per day in both treatment groups was very close to 3 (range of 
mean number of injections 2.93 – 3.07 in the glargine group, vs 2.84 – 3.07 in the NPH group). 
Therefore there is no difference in number of bolus injections per day between the glargine group and 
the NPH group. 
The results for the primary outcome of “all hypoglycemia” were dominated (in terms of the number of 
events) by the third component, low fingerstick blood glucose (FSBG) values, in particular by low FSBG 
values that were  ‘sporadic’ (ie did not occur at times of symptomatic hypoglycemia or low CGM 
[continuous glucose monitoring] excursions). These low sporadic FSBG values tended to cluster at 
mealtimes, as Figure below shows. They did not occur more often at the noon meal in the glargine 
group. 
There were more FSBG values performed overall (ie, both low and not low) in the glargine group than 
in the NPH group, and on average CGM glucoses trended lower in the glargine group during daytime 
hours than in the NPH group, both factors which would tend to generate more “low” FSBG values in the 
glargine group than in the NPH group. The occurrence of these low peri-mealtime asymptomatic FSBGs 
was certainly influenced by the bolus insulin doses given for the meal before the one at which the low 
FSBG value was recorded, and, as above, the evidence points to the fact that in both groups, an 
injection of bolus insulin was generally given with each meal. 
Assessment report  
Page 12/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the other hand, symptomatic hypoglycemia events did not show the same mealtime peak incidence 
that “low FSBG”s did. Symptomatic hypoglycemia episodes occurred most commonly peri-midday in 
both groups. 
Plot of "low sporadic" FSBG readings by time of day – mITT population 
s
t
n
e
v
e
f
o
r
e
b
m
u
N
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
Hour
Lantus
NPH
Variability in insulin dose is best reflected by the standard deviation (SD) of the dose in U/kg. The dose 
range of 0.13 – 1.19 U/kg referred to simply reflects the greatest and least glargine doses given during 
the trial. The high and low extremes of dose can be related to many factors, such as age, diet, 
proportion of total daily insulin dose taken as bolus vs basal, and insulin resistance. In the 125-patient 
PRESCHOOL study the SD of glargine doses was 0.15 – 0.18 U/kg (CSR Table 42), as compared to NPH 
(0.16 – 0.21 U/kg). This compares favorably with the SDs of the total insulin doses in Study 
HOE901/3003 conducted in 349 older T1DM children (glargine 0.30 – 0.32 U/kg, NPH 0.32 – 0.34 
U/kg). In this study, the age range was 5 – 16 (median 12.0, mean 11.7 years). 
The MAH performed correlations between basal insulin dose and: 
 
“all hypoglycemia”, the primary outcome variable 
  Symptomatic hypoglycemia 
  Body weight, 
The tables below show the results: 
Assessment report  
Page 13/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Correlation between the average basal insulin dose by body weight (U/kg) over all 
on-treatment visits, and the parameter shown 
Correlation [ coefficent(P value) ] 
Lantus 
NPH 
Basal insulin (U/kg) with 
       All hypoglycemia 
0.1521(0.2378) 
-0.0049(0.9698) 
       Symptomatic hypoglycemia 
0.1417(0.2718) 
-0.1102(0.3901) 
       Body weight 
0.3223(0.0106) 
0.1439(0.2604) 
PGM=DEVOPS/HOE901/EFC11202/CSR_01/REPORT/PGM/__chmp_corr.sas  
OUT=REPORT/OUTPUT/__chmp_corr_ontreat_i.rtf (20MAR2012 -  4:39)  
Correlation between the average basal insulin dose (U) over all on-treatment visits, 
and the parameters shown 
Correlation [ coefficent(P value) ] 
Lantus 
NPH 
Basal insulin (U) with 
       All hypoglycemia 
0.1365(0.2902) 
0.0196(0.8786) 
       Symptomatic hypoglycemia 
0.1211(0.3485) 
-0.0172(0.8934) 
       Body weight 
0.5854(<.0001) 
0.5747(<.0001) 
PGM=DEVOPS/HOE901/EFC11202/CSR_01/REPORT/PGM/__chmp_corr.sas  
OUT=REPORT/OUTPUT/__chmp_corr_u_ontreat_i.rtf (20MAR2012 -  4:40)  
No correlation between basal insulin dose and hypoglycemia of either type is significant, however in 
both groups there is a very significant correlation between basal insulin dose and body weight, and for 
Lantus, this is observed even after the dose is normalized for body weight. These are growing children 
with a wide variability in their body weights over the age range for inclusion, more so than adults and 
probably more so than older children. 
The distribution of insulin dose is tabulated below for both treatment groups. 
The distribution of the average basal insulin by body weight (U/Kg) over all on-
treatment visits 
Basal insulin (U/Kg) 
Number 
Mean (SEM) 
SD 
Median 
Min : Max 
Q1 : Q3 
Geometric mean 
Coefficient of variation 
Lantus 
(N=62) 
NPH 
(N=63) 
62 
63 
0.363 (0.0205) 
0.439 (0.0232) 
0.161 
0.326 
0.11 : 0.87 
0.262 : 0.438 
0.331 
44.4339 
0.184 
0.409 
0.03 : 0.88 
0.300 : 0.523 
0.391 
41.9981 
PGM=DEVOPS/HOE901/EFC11202/CSR_01/REPORT/PGM/__chmp_corr_dist.sas  
OUT=REPORT/OUTPUT/__chmp_corr_dist_ontreat_i.rtf (20MAR2012 -  4:57)  
The mean dose of NPH over the entire study is somewhat higher than the mean dose of glargine (as 
reported in the CSR), but the standard deviations and standard errors of the basal insulin dose in the 
two arms, the best measure of variability, are quite similar, although slightly greater in the NPH group. 
Assessment report  
Page 14/36
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
There were 2 episodes of “Headache” reported in the glargine group (in patients 71002004 
and 76002001) versus none in the NPH group, and one episode of “Somnolence” in glargine 
patient 76002004. These symptoms were apparently related to low blood glucose 
Secondary analyses 
The components of the primary outcome of “all hypoglycaemia” were analysed individually. Table 
below shows the symptomatic hypoglycaemia events. The symptomatic hypoglycaemia events were 
more common in the NPH group than in the Lantus group. Mean (SD) number of events: 11.52 (16.86) 
in the Lantus group, versus 13.42 (20.62) in the NPH group. The median was 3 events in the Lantus 
group, versus 4 events in the NPH group. Resulting in an estimate ratio of mean event rates of 0.76 
with 95% CI= (0.46; 1.25). 
The symptomatic hypoglycaemia events comprised approximately 15% of the overall primary outcome. 
They tended to cluster around midday in the NPH group, with a smaller peak between midnight and 5 
AM. In the insulin glargine group, symptomatic hypoglycaemia was also more common in the late 
morning and early afternoon, but not as prominently as in the NPH group. 
Summary of symptomatic hypoglycaemia events during on-treatment period – 
mITT population 
Part of the second primary outcome component was confirmed low CGM excursions <70 mg/dL (3.9 
mmol/L), confirmed by a concomitant FSBG measurement. The occurrence of these events was similar 
Assessment report  
Page 15/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between the treatments, as shown in the table below. There was a clustering of events around 
mealtimes. 
Summary of all confirmed low CGMS excursions during on-treatment period – mITT 
population 
The third component, any FSBG <70 mg/dL, is shown in the table below. The mean number of all low 
FSBG events was higher in the Lantus group, compared to the NPH group, 85.87 versus 66.27 events 
respectively. The estimate (SE) ratio of mean event rates between Lantus and NPH was 1.18 (0.12), 
with 95% CI: 0.96; 1.45. 
The MAH explains this disproportion between insulin glargine and NPH insulin in low FSBG to greater 
performance of FSBG monitoring in the insulin glargine group, compared to the NPH group. In the 
insulin glargine group more FSBGs were performed, and thus more FSBGs <70 mg/dL could be 
detected. 
Assessment report  
Page 16/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of all low FSBG events during on-treatment period – mITT population 
According to the MAH, the primary outcome was driven by the disproportion in low FSBG values. 
Overall, the ratio of events between insulin glargine and NPH insulin that were either symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia events or confirmed low CGM excursions was 1.06 (0.81 – 1.38). This small insulin 
glargine to NPH insulin disproportion may have been in part due to the greater mean number of days 
the CGM devices were worn in the insulin glargine group (82.6 days, versus 76.2 days for NPH, ratio 
1.08). 
The MAH states that the FSBG values <70 mg/dL that occurred at other times, ie the “sporadic” low 
FSBG values, were more numerous in the insulin glargine group than in the NPH group, and are 
displayed in the table below. 
As events of either symptomatic hypoglycaemia or low CGM excursions were relatively balanced 
between treatments, and were triggered by hypoglycaemic stimuli rather than captured sporadically, it 
is evident that the disproportion in FSBG monitoring performance did not impact these components of 
the primary outcome. Rather the insulin glargine to NPH insulin disproportion in total FSBG monitoring 
(ratio 1.16) would have been expected to principally affect the third component of the primary 
outcome, low sporadic FSBG readings. 
Assessment report  
Page 17/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of “low sporadic” FSBG during on-treatment period – mITT population 
HbA1c levels 
Mean HbA1c in the two treatment groups at the various time points is shown in the table below. 
The observed changes were not statistically significant, and on average HbA1c values were the same 
at the end of the study as they were at the start. This is true despite an increase in the mean dose of 
NPH insulin, from 0.37 IU/kg at baseline to 0.46 IU/kg at Week 24. Insulin glargine doses remained 
stable over the course of the study – mean dose at baseline was 0.35 U/kg, and at endpoint was 0.38 
U/kg – as did bolus insulin doses in both arms, both in terms of number of injections and total units. 
Only 22 – 23% of patients in either treatment group achieved an HbA1c in the target range (≤7.5%) 
by the end of treatment. 
Assessment report  
Page 18/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of HbA1c at end-of-treatment (ANCOVA-LOCF) – mITT population 
Blood glucose variability 
“Average (blood) glucose” was the average of all available CGM interstitial glucose values for the 
patient.  
As might be expected from the plot of average CGM glucose by time of day, the variability of CGM 
glucose (the standard deviation of all these values over the trial) was high, and similar between 
treatments (see table below. 
Summary of blood glucose variability based on CGMS values over the entire study – 
mITT population 
Assessment report  
Page 19/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several observations are apparent from this data: 
• Mean CGM values were above the recommended target of 10 mmol/L during the whole day in both 
groups. 
• There was variability in mean CGM values over the course of the day, with troughs corresponding to 
post-meal effects of bolus injections, and peaks following the meals. 
• For most of the day (all non-nocturnal hours), the mean CGM values in the insulin glargine group 
were lower than the corresponding values in the NPH group. In particular, the mean CGM glucose level 
was lower in the insulin glargine group between 13:00 and 22:00 hours, which was the time when 
there were greater numbers of FSBG readings <70 mg/dL in the insulin glargine group. 
• Between midnight and 05:00 hours, mean CGM glucose was lower in the NPH group than in the 
insulin glargine group, perhaps related to the evening NPH doses, given in most patients in that 
treatment group, on most days. 
• Fasting glucose levels seem lower on average in the insulin glargine group than in the NPH group. 
• HbA1c results reflected an averaging of BG differences (as judged by average of CMGS values) 
during the day and evening – somewhat lower during the day for insulin glargine, somewhat lower 
overnight in the NPH group – that may have cancelled each other out in the overall assessment of 
average glycaemia. 
1.5.3.  Discussion 
In support of the Application one clinical trial was submitted (Study EFC11202). The study design was 
according to the agreements made during the PIP procedure. However, no child aged below the age of 
2 years was included in the glargine group, thus no clinical data on the efficacy below this age is 
available and this is now appropriately reflected in the SmPC. 
There were some differences between treatment groups in the patient disposition. In the glargine 
group, 57/61 (93.4%) completed the study, while a lower number 54/64 (84.4%) of participants in the 
NPH insulin group completed the trial. Discontinuation in the NPH group was higher in the following 
categories: Family’s request (14.1% versus 4.9%); Adverse events (3.1% versus none); poor 
compliance to protocol (3.1% versus 1.6%); and “other reasons” (9.4% versus 3.3%). Since the 
number of patients who discontinued during the study was small (4 versus 10 subjects), influence on 
efficacy or safety results is not expected. 
Furthermore, the proportion of “any randomisation or drug allocation irregularities” was quite 
substantial in both treatment groups. In the glargine group, 14 events (23%) and in the NPH group 18 
(28.1%) of irregularities occurred. These events were mainly categorised as stratification errors [12 
(19.7%) in the glargine group, versus 16 (25%) in the NPH group]. Since the baseline characteristics 
regarding HbA1c and rate of hypoglycaemic events were comparable between groups, it is not 
expected that this misclassification (stratification errors) will have a large influence on the efficacy 
results. 
Lastly, a substantial percentage of important protocol deviations were noted. Since the number of 
subjects involved was limited (8 and 7 patients per treatment group), influence on the efficacy results 
is not expected to be substantial. 
Baseline characteristics were comparable between groups. 
Mean HbA1c levels were slightly lower in the glargine group, while the median HbA1c levels were 
slightly lower in the NPH group. There was a greater variation in values in the NPH group, versus the 
glargine group. HbA1c values at baseline were around 8%, this is higher than the recommended 
(<7.5%) for children with diabetes, but comparable to levels found in practice. 
Assessment report  
Page 20/36
 
 
 
 
 
The mean basal insulin dosage at baseline was slightly smaller in the glargine group, however no 
difference was found in the median basal insulin dosage (6 U in both groups). The mean daily dose of 
bolus insulin was slightly higher in the NPH group, while the median daily dose was lower compared to 
the glargine group. In conclusion, the two treatment groups were comparable with regard the baseline 
daily insulin dose. 
The number of “all hypoglycaemia” events at baseline was slightly lower in the glargine group. The 
mean (SD); and median number of events were 7.66 (6.02); 6.00 in the glargine group, versus 8.81 
(13.25); 7.00 in the NPH group. There was a rather large variation in each study group, with some 
patients reporting no hypoglycaemic events [5 (8.2%) subjects in the glargine group, versus 5 (7.8%) 
in the NPH group], while the maximum number of reported hypoglycaemic events was 25 in the 
glargine group, versus 101 events in the NPH group. 
The children in the glargine group were slightly older [mean (SD) age; median age; number (%) ≤3 
years old: 4.3 (0.9) yrs; 5 yrs; 10 (16.4%) in the glargine group, versus 4.1 (1.0) yrs; 4 yrs; 17 
(26.6%)]. 
It is not expected that any of these small differences will have an impact on the efficacy or safety 
results. 
Primary objective was the effect of both insulins on hypoglycaemia. During treatment more 
hypoglycaemic events were seen in the Lantus group compared to the NPH insulin group but the 
difference between groups was small, and the variation rather large: mean 193 versus 169 
events/year, with a ratio (95% CI) of 1.18 (0.97 to 1.14). According to the Applicant the difference 
might be due to the higher number of FSBG measurements performed in the Lantus group, which 
increases the chance of detecting low glucose levels. However, the reason(s) why there were more 
FSBG measurements in the Lantus group is unknown. It may be partly explained by the longer time of 
exposure observed in the glargine group. Maybe more measurements were made because of the more 
frequent insulin dose changes in this group or it could be that care takers expected more often a low 
blood glucose level. Therefore, the higher number of FSBG measurements has not fully been 
explained. 
Furthermore, indeed the differences between the confirmed CGMs, and symptomatic hypoglycaemia 
were relatively small between the two treatment groups. Therefore the “low sporadic FSBG” probably 
drove the primary efficacy outcome, as stated by the MAH. 
Since the CGMs were only used for a limited period of time, and symptomatic hypoglycaemia is difficult 
to detect in pediatrics 1 to less than 6 years old, these two variables might have had limitations in 
detecting hypoglycaemia during the study. It should also be noted that the time with CGMS did not 
differ when the longer exposure time in the glargine groups is taken into consideration. 
It is stated that the difference seen in confirmed low CGM excursions between the two treatment 
groups might be due to the greater mean number of days the CGM devices were worn in the insulin 
glargine group (82.6 days, versus 76.2 days for NPH, ratio 1.08). However, this disproportion is almost 
identical to the disproportion in mean exposure (0.44 vs. 0.41 years, ratio 1.07) which means that the 
ratio of events per day with CGM device would be very close to the ratio of events per exposure year. 
I.e. the number of days the CGM devices were worn does not explain the (slightly) higher event rate in 
the insulin glargine group. 
In the same way, the number of FSBG measurements does not differ that much between the groups 
when controlling for the different exposure times. The ratio of number of FSBG measures per exposure 
year 1.03. 
Assessment report  
Page 21/36
 
 
 
 
 
The third variable used to detect hypoglycaemia, FSBG measurements, was used often (2 – 2018 times 
per patients during the 24 weeks treatment). Although this method could not continuously track the 
glucose level, and the number of measurements was variable between patients, this efficacy variable is 
important in the study to compare the differences in hypoglycaemic events between the two treatment 
groups. This efficacy variable could be used during the whole study duration, and this variable is 
independent of the hypoglycaemic awareness of the 1 to less than 6 years old pediatrics. 
There are peaks in the primary outcome for both groups around the times of meals (and bolus insulin 
injections), more pronounced in the insulin glargine group. The largest peak for the NPH group occurs 
around the time of the noon meal, which coincided with the peak action of the morning dose of NPH 
insulin. A smaller peak for NPH can be seen in the hours following midnight. It is evident that there are 
more events in the insulin glargine group over the course of the 24 hours than in the NPH group. 
The median number of bolus injections in both the Lantus group and the NPH insulin group in most 
weeks during the PRESCHOOL study was around 3 times daily without significant differences between 
the two treatment arms; only at week 24 the number was lower (see Table 45). The median number of 
bolus injections taken, is the number you would expect from a physiological point of view, assuming 
that three meals are taken every day. This is not suggestive for any possible specific Lantus related 
problems such as increases in hypoglycemia or patient’s related problems (e.g. skipping meals, not 
willing to take injections). The peak of the NPH insulin was apparently not sufficient to cover the lunch 
meal and most patients (80%) received NPH insulin twice daily vs. 10% insulin glargine. This could 
explain the lack of difference regarding number of insulin bolus between the two treatment groups. 
The large variability in individual glargine doses is not totally unexpected considering that children in a 
rather large age and weight span were included in the study. Further, the SD of the dose in U/kg did 
not differ between the glargine and the NPH dose. Thus, the basal insulin doses do not explain the 
difference in hypoglycaemia. 
The MAH performed correlations between basal insulin dose and the primary endpoint “all 
hypoglycemia”. The correlation coefficient for the average basal insulin dose by body weight (U/kg) 
over all on-treatment visits and the variable “all hypoglycaemia” was 0.1521, (P-value 0.2378). This 
suggests that there is some correlation between higher dosage of Lantus and incidence of 
hypoglycaemic events, but not statistically significant. It is to be expected that insulin lowers blood 
glucose levels. Therefore, a positive correlation coefficient between insulin dose and hypoglycaemia is 
not unexpected. This effect was not seen in the NPH insulin group, but this may have been related to 
the higher HbA1C levels before and at the end of the study and the twice daily dosing that occurred in 
most patients. 
The data do not really contribute to the discussion why non-inferiority in terms of hypoglycaemia in the 
PRE-SCHOOL study was not met. The increase in hypoglycaemic events could be caused by the slightly 
better glucose levels, and lower HbA1c levels in the glargine treatment group. The increase in 
hypoglycaemic events was small, and the standard deviation in both treatment groups rather large. 
This information is sufficiently covered in the SmPC. 
The MAH performed also correlation tests between basal insulin dose and symptomatic hypoglycaemia; 
and basal insulin dose and body weight. This information is not considered meaningful. The correlation 
between insulin dose and body weight has been well known for years, and symptomatic hypoglycaemic 
events is not a reliable parameter in young children age 2 to less than 6 years. 
The three cases of somnolence and headaches which were reported in the glargine group were 
described by the MAH. These symptoms were indeed related to hypoglycaemic events (however not 
late or passed events), therefore all three events were included in the efficacy parameters as 
Assessment report  
Page 22/36
 
 
 
 
 
symptomatic hypoglycaemic events. Both hypoglycemic seizures of Pt 76002001 and Pt 76002004 
were listed as a SAE. 
The mean HbA1c at end of study was slightly lower in the glargine group (8.07%) versus the NPH 
group (8.34%). This is in line with the higher number of hypoglycaemic events found in the glargine 
group. 
It can be concluded that Lantus was shown to be at least as effective as NPH insulin in controlling 
blood glucose in paediatric patients with T1DM, aged 2-6 years with a small and variable increase in 
incidence of hypoglycaemia that might be related to the somewhat stricter regulation of the diabetes 
mellitus in the Lantus group.  
In conclusion, insulin glargine can only be authorized in adults, adolescents and children aged 2 years 
and above. 
1.6.  Clinical Safety aspects  
1.6.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted and Results 
1.6.1.1.  Patient exposure 
The mean treatment exposure was similar between the two treatment groups, with a slightly longer 
exposure to insulin glargine (161.5 days for insulin glargine versus 150.3 days for NPH, see table 
below) and a greater percentage of patients on insulin glargine treatment having completed the study 
(57 [93.4%] patients on insulin glargine versus 54 [84.4%] patients on NPH). As different from the 
insulin glargine group, dropouts in the NPH group continued to occur after the first month of the trial. 
Overall, the majority of the patients were exposed to the investigational product for 141 days or longer. 
Exposure to investigational product – Safety population 
Assessment report  
Page 23/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The average daily basal insulin dose per kilogram body weight for insulin glargine was stable over the 
24-week treatment period (0.35 U/kg at Week 1 versus 0.38 U/kg at Week 24) while the average daily 
dose of NPH insulin increased from 0.37 U/kg at baseline of Week 1 to 0.46 U/kg at Week 24. 
Almost all patients in both groups received either insulin lispro or regular human insulin, with a few on 
both. A smaller proportion of patients in the insulin glargine group (36 [58.1%]) than in the NPH group 
(46 [73.0%]) used lispro as bolus insulin. However, the fact that insulin glargine-treated patients used 
more regular insulin as bolus insulin is unlikely to have played a role in the primary outcome result. 
The average daily doses per kilogram body weight of bolus insulin in the two treatment groups were 
similar at Week 1 (0.41 U/kg for insulin glargine versus 0.42 U/kg for NPH insulin) and remained 
practically unchanged at Week 24 (0.41 U/kg for insulin glargine versus 0.40 U/kg for NPH insulin). 
1.6.1.2.  Adverse events 
An overview of the AEs observed during the 24 weeks of on-treatment period is provided in the table 
below. The proportions of patients with TEAEs were generally comparable between the two treatment 
groups (40 [64.5%] for insulin glargine versus 43 [68.3%] for NPH insulin). No fatal TEAE occurred in 
the study. Two patients on NPH insulin prematurely discontinued the study treatment due to TEAEs of 
drug hypersensitivity (allergic reaction to NPH) and diabetic ketoacidosis. Most AEs in both treatment 
groups were of mild or moderate severity. 
Overview of adverse event profile: treatment-emergent adverse events – Safety 
population 
Table below presents the number of patients with TEAs by SOC. Most TEAs were classified in the SOC 
infections and infestations, with 33 (53.2%) in the glargine group, versus 30 (47.6%) in the NPH 
group. The most commonly reported TEAEs by PT were gastroenteritis, nasopharyngitis, and 
pharyngitis (each affecting 6 [9.7%] patients) in the insulin glargine group and pyrexia (7 [11.1%] 
patients) and gastroenteritis and upper respiratory tract infection (each affecting 6 [9.5%] patients) in 
the NPH group. These are common AEs in this age group. 
Assessment report  
Page 24/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number (%) of patients with TEAE(s) by SOC – Safety population 
For non-hypoglycaemia AEs, there was no prominent pattern of AEs in either treatment group. 
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders occurred more often in the insulin glargine group (5 [8.1%] 
patients, including 1 diabetic ketoacidosis and 2 hypoglycaemic seizures) than in the NPH group (1 
[1.6%] patient). Nervous System Disorders were reported only for the insulin glargine group (3 [4.8%] 
patients: 2 headaches, 1 somnolence). Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders were reported more 
often for the NPH group (7 [11.1%] patients of whom 4 had dermatitis) than for the insulin glargine 
group (4 [6.5%] patients). In general these AEs are very common in this childhood age group, are not 
related to insulin treatment, and were generally balanced between the treatment groups. 
Special interest 
Blood pressure and heart rate 
For the vital signs parameters (blood pressure and heart rate), there were no clinically important 
differences between the two groups in the mean parameter values or in the mean changes from 
baseline. 
Body weight 
Body weight was measured at baseline (randomisation) and at Weeks 12 and 24 during the study. 
Mean body weights were similar at baseline in both the treatment groups (19.4 kg for insulin glargine 
and 19.7 kg for NPH insulin). Over the 24-week on-treatment period, patients in both treatment 
groups gained weight appropriately for their age. At both Week 12 and Week 24, on average, a slightly 
lower increase in body weight was observed in the patients treated with insulin glargine (0.7 kg at 
Assessment report  
Page 25/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 12 and 1.3 kg at Week 24) compared to those treated with NPH (0.8 kg at Week 12 and 1.6 kg 
at Week 24). 
Anti-insulin antibodies 
AIA were measured in patients treated with NPH and insulin glargine. For both treatment groups the 
percentage of AIA-positive patients was similar at screening visit (baseline), Week 4 and Week 24 with 
about 75% positive patients in the insulin glargine and about 80% positive patients in the NPH cohort. 
Analysis of individual data revealed that overall, patients with AIA negative status at baseline remained 
AIA negative throughout the study. For 5 individual patients in the insulin glargine treatment group 
and 3 in the NPH treatment group, the AIA status changed from negative to positive, and, according to 
the MAH, this can be mainly related to the assay sensitivity as binding values for all these patients 
were very low and just around the cut-off point. 
For both treatment groups, there was no indication for any correlation between AIA titre/binding level 
and the analyzed efficacy parameters of HbA1c change, daily insulin dose, and cumulative “all 
hypoglycaemia”. Also the data distribution pattern was similar for NPH and insulin glargine treatment 
group. 
Neoplasms 
There were no cases of cancer recorded during this trial. 
1.6.1.3.  Serious adverse events and deaths 
There were no death events in the study. 
The percentage of patients who experienced serious TEAEs was higher in the insulin glargine group (8 
[12.9%] patients) than in the NPH group (2 [3.2%] patients). The differences between groups were 
mainly due to the imbalanced occurrence of SAEs in the SOCs of Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders. 
Four (6.5%) subjects in the glargine group experienced a SAE in the SOC Metabolism and nutrician 
disorders, of which 2 hypoglycaemic seizures (both SAEs occurred after injection of the short-acting 
insulin lispro with a skipped or delayed meals and patients fully recovered without any permanent 
sequelae), 1 diabetic ketoacidosis (moderate intensity, patient recovered on the day of onset), and 1 
dehydration (mild intensity, patient recovered one day after onset). In the NPH group 1 (1.6%) event 
was reported, a diabetic ketoacidosis (severe intensity; patient recovered one day after onset; NPH 
insulin was discontinued, patient was withdrawn from study). 
Three (4.8%) subjects in the glargine group experienced a SAE in the SOC Gastrointestinal Disorders, 
while no patients in the NPH group reported this SAE. In two cases, a gastritis was diagnosed, and in 
one case abdominal pain. 
The two SAEs reported in the SOC Infections and infestations concerned one patient in the glargine 
group who experienced viral infection of mild intensity, and one patient in the NPH group who recorded 
lower respiratory tract infection. 
All 8 serious TEAEs in the insulin glargine group recovered and were assessed as not related to IP by 
the Investigator. 
Other significant adverse events 
Seven patients (5 [8.1%] in the insulin glargine group and 2 [3.2%] in the NPH group) experienced 9 
TEAEs of device lead damage (CGM sensor fracture) when a CGM device was in use. The TEAEs 
occurred either during the sensor replacement, which was required for every 6-day consecutive use 
with the CGM device or while the child was wearing the device and physically active. The TEAEs were 
Assessment report  
Page 26/36
 
 
 
 
 
of mild or moderate intensity, without any associated AE of infection or local reaction reported. All 7 of 
the patients continued using the CGM device as per the protocol requirement after the AE occurrence. 
1.6.1.4.  Laboratory findings 
Hematology, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis tests were performed only at screening, to rule out 
major systemic disease. No clinically relevant laboratory findings were noted according the MAH. 
1.6.1.5.  Safety in special populations 
N/A 
1.6.1.6.  Post marketing data 
Lantus has been marketed in adult and paediatric patients with T1DM for the past 10 years in almost 
all countries of the world. Although this study is the first formal, sponsor assessment of the use of 
insulin glargine in preschool children with T1DM, and to date there are no approvals for the use of 
insulin glargine in the preschool population in any country, some children entering the trial were 
already taking insulin glargine (Lantus) off label. 
Based on Reports of post-marketing experience (cut-off date 21 April 2011), after review of 
spontaneous AEs, it can be concluded that the AEs reported for the age group of 1 less than 6 years 
are similar to the AEs observed for the age group of 6-17 years, and are primarily related to 
dysglycaemia and injection site events. The lower percentage of SAEs in the younger age group 
(approximately 11% versus approximately 18% in the older pediatric age group) indicates that the 
impact of those AEs on patient safety is not worse than that in the older age group. 
No significant signal has been seen with regard to patient safety in the population of patients aged 1to 
less than 6 years. 
1.6.2.  Discussion 
There was no prominent pattern of AEs in either treatment group. The proportions of patients with 
TEAEs were generally comparable between the two treatment groups (40 [64.5%] for insulin glargine 
versus 43 [68.3%] for NPH insulin). No fatal TEAE occurred in the study. Two patients on NPH insulin 
prematurely discontinued the study treatment due to TEAEs of drug hypersensitivity (allergic reaction 
to NPH) and diabetic ketoacidosis, whereas none did on insulin glargine treatment. Most AEs in both 
treatment groups were of mild or moderate severity. 
The most commonly reported TEAEs by PT were gastroenteritis, nasopharyngitis, and pharyngitis (each 
affecting 6 [9.7%] patients) in the insulin glargine group and pyrexia (7 [11.1%] patients) and 
gastroenteritis and upper respiratory tract infection (each affecting 6 [9.5%] patients) in the NPH 
group. These are common AEs in this age group. 
No clinically relevant differences were noticed between the two treatment groups, regarding vital signs 
(blood pressure and pulse); body weight or anti insulin antibodies. No clinically relevant laboratory 
findings were found, however no measurements were made during the study. This is acceptable. 
There were no cases of cancer recorded during this trial. 
The percentage of patients who experienced serious TEAEs was higher in the insulin glargine group (8 
[12.9%] patients) than in the NPH group (2 [3.2%] patients). The differences between groups were 
mainly due to the imbalanced occurrence of SAEs in the SOCs of Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders. 
The SAEs events in the glargine group were not assessed to be related to basal insulin, more 
specifically the two cases of hypoglycemia were related to the injection of short-acting insulin with a 
skipped or delayed meal. 
Assessment report  
Page 27/36
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding to the use of CGM devices, the nine “CGM sensor fracture” events are noted. Use of CGMD is 
challenging, and the observed AEs are therefore acceptable. 
Based on post-marketing off-label experience in children 1 to less than 6 years old, no new safety 
concerns for this age group was found. 
In conclusion, there is no evidence that the safety profile of insulin glargine in young children, age 1-6 
years old, with T1DM differs notably from NPH insulin. 
1.7.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated Risk Management Plan within this variation procedure  
Based on the safety conclusions, the CHMP requested the submission of an updated Risk Management 
Plan within this procedure in which the data related to malignancies in children in relocated to Part I – 
Safety Specifications. 
Assessment report  
Page 28/36
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan (including the changes related to the application 
presented highlighted). New text is presented in green, and deleted text is in strikethrough. 
Assessment report  
Page 29/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
Page 30/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Assessment report  
Page 31/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.8.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed to update Product Information in order to reflect Lantus use in children aged 1 to 
less than 6 years old.  
During the procedure, based on scientific assessment the CHMP concluded that Lantus use can be 
authorised only to children aged 2 to less than 6 years old. The MAH was requested to update PI 
accordingly.  
The following changes to the Product Information (PI) were endorsed by the CHMP (new text in bold 
and underlined and deleted text marked as strikethrough):  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and children aged of 6 2 years and or above 
with diabetes mellitus, where treatment with insulin is required. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
[...] 
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy of Lantus have been established in adolescents and children aged of 6 2 years and 
older above. (see section 5.1). Lantus has not been studied in children below the age of 2 
years. 
In children, efficacy and safety of Lantus have only been demonstrated when given in the evening. 
Due to limited experience on the efficacy and safety of Lantus in children below the age of 6 years, 
Lantus should only be used in this age group under careful medical supervision. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
[...] 
Paediatric population 
In general, the safety profile for children and adolescents (≤ 18 years of age) is similar to the safety 
profile for adults.  
The adverse reaction reports received from post marketing surveillance included relatively more 
frequent injection site reactions (injection site pain, injection site reaction) and skin reactions (rash, 
urticaria) in children and adolescents (≤ 18 years of age) than in adults. 
No c Clinical study safety data are not available forin children under below 6 2 years of age. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
[...] 
A 24-week parallel group study was conducted in 125 children with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
aged 2 to 6 years, comparing insulin glargine given once daily in the morning to NPH insulin 
given once or twice daily as basal insulin. Both groups received bolus insulin before meals. 
The primary aim of demonstrating non-inferiority of insulin glargine to NPH in all 
hypoglycaemia was not met and there was a trend to an increase of hypoglycemic events 
with insulin glargine [insulin glargine: NPH rate ratio (95% CI) = 1.18 (0.97-1.44)].  
Glycohaemoglobin and glucose variabilities were comparable in both treatment groups. No 
new safety signals were observed in this trial. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
[...] 
Paediatric population 
Assessment report  
Page 32/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific pharmacokinetics study in children or adolescents was conducted Pharmacokinetics in 
children aged 2 to less than 6 years with type 1 diabetes mellitus was assessed in one 
clinical study (see section 5.1). Plasma “trough” levels of insulin glargine and its main M1 
and M2 metabolites were measured in children treated with insulin glargine, revealing 
plasma concentration patterns similar to adults, and providing no evidence for accumulation 
of insulin glargine or its metabolites with chronic dosing. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
In support of the extension of indication 1 clinical study EFC11202 was submitted. 
Study EFC11202 was a 24-Week multinational, multicenter, randomised, open-label, 2 parallel arms, 
Phase 3b study comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin glargine (Lantus) as basal insulin, 
administered once daily before breakfast, versus Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin 
administered 1 or 2 times daily in children with T1DM aged at least 1 year to less than 6 years. 
However, no children below the age of 2 years were included in the glargine group. 
Blood glucose registration was performed using a CGMS for a minimum of 6 days of useable glucose 
values during at least 5 occasions during treatment. This is the first study using CGM devices to study 
the efficacy of insulin Lantus. Furthermore, FSBG values were recorded during the whole study 
duration. 
The primary objective was to determine the efficacy of insulin glargine compared to NPH insulin on the 
rate of “all hypoglycaemia”, as measured by using CGMS, FSBG and reported symptomatic events. The 
study design was according the agreements made during the PIP-procedure. 
Out of 125 randomised patients, 61 were randomised to insulin glargine and 64 to NPH insulin. A total 
of 111 patients completed the 24-week study treatment: 57 (93.4%) patients treated with insulin 
glargine compared to 54 (84.4%) patients treated with NPH. Among the completers, 99 patients (48 
for insulin glargine and 51 for NPH insulin) satisfied the protocol required CGM performance. 
Benefits 
In the trial, baseline HbA1c levels were comparable between groups. The mean HbA1c at end of study 
was slightly lower in the glargine group (8.07%) versus the NPH group (8.34%). In either treatment 
group 22 – 23% of patients achieved an HbA1c in the target range (≤7.5%) by the end of treatment. 
Furthermore, the variability in blood glucose was comparable between the treatment groups. Most of 
the variability in CGM glucose fluctuations appeared to depend more on bolus insulin dosing rather 
than basal insulin dosing. It was proposed that the age limit in the indication is set to 2 years of age 
due to the lack of clinical experience in children below this age. 
In this study, insulin glargine was injected once daily, while most patients in the NPH insulin treatment 
group received two injections for basal insulin. The reduced number of injections in the glargine group, 
together with comparable glucose levels between the treatment groups, could be of benefit for young 
children. 
With respect to pharmacokinetics, there is a large uncertainty in the measured Ctrough values, with 
coefficients of variation of more than 150% in the values of the main metabolite M1. This high 
variability may be due to the variability in dose, the number of clinical sites used in this study. There is 
no accumulation of the main metabolite (M1) of insulin glargine after multiple dosing. The comparison 
with data from adults demonstrates that the plasma concentration pattern in the children (2 – 6 years) 
is qualitatively and quantitatively similar to the adults. 
Risks 
Assessment report  
Page 33/36
 
 
 
 
 
The proportions of patients with TEAEs were generally comparable between the two treatment groups 
(40 [64.5%] patients for insulin glargine versus 43 [68.3%] patients for NPH insulin), and the majority 
of TEAEs were mild in severity. Most TEAEs were typical for this age range. The most commonly 
reported TEAEs by treatment group were gastroenteritis, nasopharyngitis, and pharyngitis (each 
affecting 6 [9.7%] patients) in the insulin glargine group and pyrexia (7 [11.1%] patients) and 
gastroenteritis and upper respiratory tract infection (each affecting 6 [9.5%] patients) in the NPH 
group. The TEAEs which occurred in the insulin glargine group were generally not considered related to 
insulin glargine, and raised no new safety concern in this age group. 
The percentage of patients who experienced serious TEAEs was higher in the insulin glargine group (8 
[12.9%] patients) than in the NPH group (2 [3.2%] patients), mainly due to the imbalanced 
occurrence of SAEs in the SOCs of Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders (2 hypoglycaemic seizures, 1 
diabetic ketoacidosis, and 1 dehydration in the insulin glargine group; 1 diabetic ketoacidosis in the 
NPH group) and Gastrointestinal Disorders (2 gastritis and 1 abdominal pain in the insulin glargine 
group). All 8 serious TEAEs in the insulin glargine group were assessed as not related to basal insulin 
by the Investigator, and all subjects recovered. 
There were no cases of cancer diagnosed in the study. 
Over the 24-week on-treatment period, nearly all individuals in each treatment group (98.4% for NPH 
insulin and 100% for insulin glargine) experienced hypoglycaemia. The analysis of “all hypoglycaemia” 
incidence rate (without any distinction of severity) was 192.75 per patient-year for insulin glargine and 
168.91 per patient-year for NPH glargine, with an incidence ratio of 1.18 and 95% CI = (0.97; 1.44). 
Based on the criteria for the primary analysis, treatment with insulin glargine did not demonstrate the 
pre-specified non-inferiority in the rate of “all hypoglycaemia” compared to NPH insulin. 
The separate components of the primary outcome of “all hypoglycaemia” were analysed individually. 
The symptomatic hypoglycaemia events were more common in the NPH group than in the glargine 
group. Mean (SD) number of events: 11.52 (16.86) in the glargine group, versus 13.42 (20.62) in the 
NPH group. Resulting in an estimate ratio of mean event rates of 0.76 with 95% CI= (0.46; 1.25). 
Symptomatic hypoglycaemia is often used as variable in studies, but is not as reliable as CGMS in 
tracking hypoglycaemic events. Especially in this age group, hypoglycaemia unawareness (or not able 
to communicate the hypoglycaemia to the care takers) could be common. 
The occurrence of confirmed low CGM excursions <70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) was similar between the 
treatments. The estimate ratio of mean event rates between glargine and NPH was 1.06, with 95% 
CI= (0.79; 1.42). 
The mean number of all low FSBG events was higher in the glargine group, compared to the NPH 
group, 85.87 versus 66.27 events respectively. The estimate (SE) ratio of mean event rates between 
glargine and NPH was 1.18 (0.12), with 95% CI: (0.96; 1.45). 
There were two severe hypoglycaemic events in the glargine group with seizure. In both cases, these 
events were most likely caused by other clinical circumstances, such as missed or reduced 
carbohydrate intake, unusual physical activity, or excessive bolus insulin dosing. 
Overall, no specific concerns were raised with the safety observations in the study population over the 
24-week treatment period. This study in paediatrics 2-6 years old demonstrated that treatment with 
glargine as basal insulin administered once daily was well tolerated as compared to treatment with 
NPH insulin. There were no new safety signals found in this young age group. 
Assessment report  
Page 34/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
The CHMP reviewed  the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
The clinical Study EFC11202 in children aged 1 to less than 6 years with T1DM demonstrated that 
treatment with insulin glargine as basal insulin administered once daily in combination with multiple 
injections of short-acting insulin was as efficient as NPH with respect to glucose control as measured 
by HbA1c. According to the diabetes guideline, HbA1c should be considered as the primary endpoint 
also in children and this has been the basis for paediatric approval for other insulin analogues. 
However, in the current study the primary endpoint was “all hypoglycaemic events” and for this 
endpoint non-inferiority was not shown. The difference in “all hypoglycaemic events” was driven by the 
component FSBG which clearly clustered around meal times, indicating that this endpoint may have 
been driven by bolus rather than basal insulin injections. The increase in hypoglycaemic events could 
also have been caused by slightly better glucose levels, and lower HbA1c levels in the glargine 
treatment group. The increase in hypoglycaemic events was however small, and the standard deviation 
of hypoglycaemic events was in both treatment groups rather large. No new safety signals were 
discovered in the study. 
The risk/benefit balance for insulin glargine in paediatrics 2 to less than 6 years old is considered 
positive. However, due to the lack of clinical experience and PK/PD data in children below the age of 2 
years, treatment is not recommended in this group. 
Most patients in the insulin glargine group received basal insulin once daily, while most paediatrics in 
the NPH insulin group needed two injections of basal insulin. This reduction in insulin injections in the 
insulin glargine group could be considered to be an advantage in this age group. 
In this study glargine was shown to be as effective as NPH insulin in controlling blood glucose in 
pediatrics with T1DM. However, due to the lack of clinical experience in children below the age of 2 
years, treatment is not recommended in this group. The risk/benefit balance for insulin glargine in 
pediatrics 2 to less than 6 years old is considered positive. 
In addition, the CHMP considered that future PSURs will provide separate analysis on cases reported in 
the paediatric and the adult population. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension of indication for the use of Lantus in children aged 2 to less than 6 years affecting sections 
4.1, 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in 
accordance. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to update the list of local representatives in the Package 
Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
Page 35/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Update of Summary of Product Characteristics 
and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Risk management system and PSUR cycle 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in 2.1 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/133/2009 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
Page 36/36
 
 
 
 
 
