EMA/313727/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000284 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lantus 
insulin glargine 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Lantus. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Lantus. 
What is Lantus? 
Lantus is a solution for injection that contains the active substance insulin glargine. It is available as 
vials, cartridges and prefilled disposable pens (OptiSet and SoloStar). 
What is Lantus used for? 
Lantus is used to treat diabetes in patients aged two years or older. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Lantus used? 
Lantus is given by injection under the skin in the abdominal wall (tummy), the thigh, or the deltoid 
region (shoulder). The site of injection should be changed with each injection to avoid changes to the 
skin (such as thickening) that can make the insulin work less well than expected. The patient’s blood 
glucose (sugar) should be regularly tested to find the lowest effective dose. 
Lantus is given once a day. In adults (aged 18 years or over), it can be given at any time, provided 
that it is at the same time each day. It should be given in the evening in patients aged less than 18 
years. Lantus can also be given together with antidiabetes medicines taken by mouth in patients who 
have type 2 diabetes. 
Patients can inject themselves with Lantus if they have been trained appropriately. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Lantus work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of blood 
glucose. Lantus is a replacement insulin that is very similar to the insulin made by the body. 
The active substance in Lantus, insulin glargine, is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA 
technology’: it is made by a bacterium that has received a gene (DNA), which makes it able to produce 
insulin glargine. 
Insulin glargine is very slightly different from human insulin. The change means that it is absorbed 
more slowly and regularly by the body after an injection, and that it has a long duration of action. The 
replacement insulin acts in same way as naturally produced insulin and helps glucose enter cells from 
the blood. By controlling the level of blood glucose, the symptoms and complications of diabetes are 
reduced. 
How has Lantus been studied? 
Lantus was originally studied in 10 studies, in both type 1 diabetes (when the pancreas cannot produce 
insulin) and type 2 diabetes (when the body is unable to use insulin effectively). A total of 2,106 
patients received Lantus in all trials combined. The main studies compared Lantus given once a day at 
bedtime with human insulin NPH (an intermediate-acting insulin) given once or twice a day. Injections 
of fast-acting insulin were also used at mealtimes. In one study, patients with type 2 diabetes also 
received antidiabetes medicines by mouth. 
Further studies have also been carried out to compare Lantus and human insulin NPH in patients with 
type 1 diabetes aged between five and 18 years, 200 of whom received Lantus, and in children aged 
two to six years, 61 of whom received Lantus. 
Studies have also been carried out in nearly 1,400 adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes to measure 
the effectiveness of Lantus injected at any time during the day, compared with an injection given in 
the evening. 
All of the studies measured the level of ‘fasting’ blood glucose (measured when the patients had not 
eaten for at least eight hours) or a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), 
which gives an indication of how well blood glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Lantus shown during the studies? 
Lantus led to a decrease in the level of HbA1c, indicating that blood glucose levels had been controlled 
to a similar level to that seen with human insulin. Lantus was effective in managing diabetes in adults 
and children aged two years and above. The effectiveness of Lantus was seen regardless of the time of 
the injection. 
What is the risk associated with Lantus? 
The most common side effect with Lantus (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia (low 
blood glucose levels). Reactions at the site of the injection (redness, pain, itching and swelling) and 
skin reactions (rash) have been seen more often in children than in adults. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Lantus, see the package leaflet. 
Lantus must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to insulin glargine or to any of the 
other ingredients. Lantus doses might also need to be adjusted when given with some other medicines 
that may have an effect on blood glucose levels. The full list is available in the package leaflet. 
Lantus  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
Why has Lantus been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Lantus’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Lantus: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Lantus on 9 June 2000.  
The full EPAR for Lantus can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Lantus, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2012. 
Lantus  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
