Summary of risk management plan for Latuda (lurasidone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Latuda. The RMP details important risks of Latuda, 
how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Latuda's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Latuda's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Latuda should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Latuda  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Latuda's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Latuda is authorised for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults aged 18 years and adolescent aged 13 years 
and over (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains lurasidone as the active substance and it is given by 
oral route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Latuda’s benefits can be found in Latuda’s EPAR, including in its 
plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Summary_for_the_public/human/002713/WC500164685.pdf 
II.  Risk  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimize  or  further  characterize  the 
risks 
Important risks of Latuda, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning 
more about Latuda's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products are: 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package leaflet and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the medicine 
is used correctly; 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or  without 
• 
• 
• 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and  regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Latuda is not yet available, it is listed under “missing 
information” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Latuda  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Latuda. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None  
None 
Missing information 
Pregnant or lactating women 
II.B Summary of important risks  
Missing information: Pregnant or lactating women 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimization measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.6. 
•  PL section 2. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Latuda. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for Latuda. 
 
 
 
 
 
