EMA/595326/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003754 
Laventair Ellipta1 (umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol) 
An overview of Laventair Ellipta and why it is authorised for use in the EU 
What is Laventair Ellipta and what is it used for? 
Laventair Ellipta is a medicine used to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the lungs 
become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Laventair Ellipta is used for maintenance 
(regular) treatment. 
Laventair Ellipta contains the active substances umeclidinium bromide and vilanterol. 
How is Laventair Ellipta used? 
Laventair Ellipta can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as an inhalation powder in a 
portable inhaler device. Each inhalation provides 65 micrograms of umeclidinium bromide (equivalent 
to 55 micrograms of umeclidinium) and 22 micrograms of vilanterol. 
The recommended dose is one inhalation per day at the same time each day. For detailed information 
on using the inhaler correctly, see the instructions in the package leaflet or contact your doctor and 
pharmacist. 
How does Laventair Ellipta work? 
Laventair Ellipta contains two active substances. Vilanterol is a long-acting beta-2 agonist. It works by 
attaching to beta-2 receptors found in the muscle cells of many organs including the airways in the 
lungs. When inhaled, vilanterol reaches the receptors in the airways and activates them. This relaxes 
the muscles of the airways. 
Umeclidinium bromide is a muscarinic receptor antagonist. It works by blocking other receptors called 
muscarinic receptors, which control the contraction of muscles. When umeclidinium bromide is inhaled, 
it relaxes the muscles of the airways. 
The combined action of the two active substances helps to keep the airways open and allows the 
patient to breathe more easily. Muscarinic receptor antagonists and long-acting beta-2 agonists are 
commonly combined in the management of COPD. 
1 Previously known as Laventair. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                       
What benefits of Laventair Ellipta have been shown in studies? 
Laventair Ellipta and a higher-dose combination of umeclidinium bromide and vilanterol were compared 
with placebo (a dummy treatment), vilanterol alone, umeclidinium bromide alone and another COPD 
medicine called tiotropium in 4 main studies.  
In all 4 studies, involving over 4,700 patients, the main measure of effectiveness was based on 
changes in the patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the maximum volume of air a person can 
breathe out in one second). 
Results showed that Laventair Ellipta improved lung function by an average FEV 1 of 167 ml more than 
placebo after 24 weeks of treatment. Laventair Ellipta also increased FEV1 by an average of 95 ml 
more than vilanterol alone and by 52 ml more than umeclidinium bromide alone. The average increase 
in FEV1 with Laventair Ellipta was 90 ml more than with tiotropium after 24 weeks of treatment.  
Laventair Ellipta was also shown to improve symptoms such as breathlessness and wheezing. 
The results for the higher dose combination of umeclidinium bromide and vilanterol did not consistently 
show relevant improvements in lung function to justify its use. 
What are the risks associated with Laventair Ellipta? 
The most common side effects with Laventair Ellipta (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are upper 
respiratory tract infections (nose and throat infection), urinary tract infections (infection of the 
structures that carry urine), pharyngitis (inflammation of the throat), sinusitis (inflammation of the 
sinuses), nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), headache, cough, oropharyngeal pain 
(pain in the mouth and throat), constipation and dry mouth.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Laventair Ellipta authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Laventair Ellipta’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it can be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency concluded that Laventair Ellipta 
was shown to be effective at improving lung function and the symptoms of COPD when compared with 
placebo or the single components as well as with tiotropium. The Agency also noted that there were no 
major safety concerns with Laventair Ellipta, with side effects being manageable, although the long-
term safety data so far are limited. To investigate this further the Agency recommended that a study 
be carried out. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Laventair Ellipta? 
As medicines of the same class as Laventair Ellipta may have an effect on the heart and blood vessels 
in the brain, the company that markets the medicine will carry out a long-term study in patients to 
collect further information on its safety in comparison with tiotropium.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients have also 
been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Laventair Ellipta are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Laventair Ellipta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Laventair Ellipta0F (umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol)  
EMA/595326/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Laventair Ellipta 
Laventair Ellipta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 8 May 2014. 
Further information on Laventair Ellipta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2018. 
Laventair Ellipta0F (umeclidinium bromide / vilanterol)  
EMA/595326/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
