Summary of risk management plan for LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA. The RMP 
details important risks of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how LAVENTAIR 
ELLIPTA should be used.
This summary of the RMP for LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA’s RMP.
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA is authorised for maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve 
symptoms in adult patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) (see SmPC 
for the full indication). It contains Umeclidinium bromide/Vilanterol as the active substance 
and it is given by inhalation route.
Further information about the evaluation of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA’s benefits can be found in 
LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to product’s EPAR summary landing page 
on the EMA webpage.
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/laventair-ellipta-previously-laventair
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA’s risks, are outlined 
below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:



Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
Page 1 of 6

The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of LAVENTAIR ELLIPTA. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
Cardio- and Cerebrovascular Disorders
Asthma-related 
death
intubation,  hospitalisation  and 
Missing information
Off-label use in Asthma (incl. paediatrics)
II.B
Summary of important risks
Important potential risk: Cardio and cerebrovascular disorders
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine
Cardiovascular effects have been associated with use of muscarinic 
antagonists and β2-agonists in patients with COPD, however, no clear 
associations have been observed in the clinical development programme 
for UMEC/VI
Page 2 of 6
Risk factors and risk groups
Patients with severe cardiovascular disease are at increased risk of future 
cardiovascular events.
Older age, a history of previous cardiac disease and worse lung function 
were predictive of increased risk of cardiovascular events in the COPD 
population [Calverley, 2010].
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
Section 4.4 and section 4.8 of the SmPC (also Section 2 and 4 of Product 
Leaflet).
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Study 201038, Post-authorisation Safety (PAS) Observational Cohort 
Study to Quantify the Incidence and Comparative Safety of Selected 
Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Events in COPD Patients Using 
Inhaled UMEC/VI Combination or Inhaled UMEC versus Tiotropium.
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan.
Important potential risk: Asthma-related intubation, hospitalization and death
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine
LABA-containing compounds carry a class risk. A FDA meta-analysis of 
LABA vs. no LABA (60,954 patients in 110 trials) by age group on a 
composite endpoint of asthma-related deaths, intubations, and 
hospitalisations (asthma composite index) showed a statistically significant 
difference among age groups. The composite event incidence difference 
for all ages was 6.3 events per 1000 PY with LABAs compared with no 
LABA use. Among the 15,192 patients with concurrent ICS use, the 
incidence difference was 0.4 events per 1000 PY. The authors noted a 
trend of greater excess risk with LABA among the younger age groups 
[McMahon, 2011].
However, based upon data from the recently completed ICS/LABA safety 
trials in asthma patients, the FDA have determined that revised labelling is 
necessary for LABA-containing products to incorporate changes based 
upon study results that showed that the risk of these events with an ICS/
LABA combination was similar to that identified with ICS monotherapy 
[Stempel, 2016a; Stempel, 2016b]. Therefore, as part of the prior approval 
supplement, currently under review for ANORO ELLIPTA, GSK proposed 
removal of the Boxed Warning for the risk of ‘Asthma-Related Death’ from 
the prescribing information to which FDA have agreed, as this event is not 
an event of concern for the COPD population and ANORO ELLIPTA is not 
Page 3 of 6
approved for the treatment of asthma. Additionally, GSK propose to 
communicate the risk of asthma-related death via the Warnings and 
Precautions section of the USPI. The current sNDA is under review. 
LABA monotherapy without opposing ICS, for the treatment of asthma 
may be associated with increased risk of serious asthma-related events 
(including hospitalisation, intubation and death [GINA, 2017;Lazarus, 
2001].
The SMART (Salmeterol Multi-centre Asthma Research Trial) study 
showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving 
salmeterol, as compared with placebo, when added to usual care [Nelson, 
2006]. Post-hoc analyses observed that asthma-related death occurred at 
a higher rate in Caucasian patients treated with salmeterol than in patients 
treated with placebo. In African-Americans asthma-related death also 
occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those 
treated with placebo. Although the relative risks of asthma-related death 
were similar in Caucasians and African-Americans, the estimate of excess 
deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African-
Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related 
death in the latter [Nelson, 2006].
Asthma-related deaths are rare and are in part related to poor asthma 
control. In asthma studies conducted with the combination of an inhaled 
corticosteroid (fluticasone furoate; FF) and VI, there were no reported 
asthma-related intubations or deaths. 
It is plausible that asthma patients who are at an increased risk for asthma 
exacerbations are also at risk of serious respiratory events. Risk factors 
for exacerbations include poorly controlled asthma, viral or respiratory 
infections and exposure to asthma triggers (e.g. pet ownership, smoking). 
Moreover, asthma disease severity, classified by either frequency and/or 
dose of medications used, hospitalisation for exacerbations or lung 
function measurements, has been repeatedly correlated to the risk of 
asthma-related death [DiSantostefano, 2008].
Risk factors and risk groups
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
Section 4.4 of the SmPC (also Section 2, 3 and 4 of Product Leaflet).
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
None.
Page 4 of 6
Missing information: Off label use in asthma (incl.paediatrics) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine
Use of UMEC/VI in an asthma population (including paediatrics) is not 
indicated.  
Risk factors and risk groups
Long-acting beta2-agonists are not recommended as monotherapy in 
asthma, as they do not influence airway inflammation and are 
potentially associated with a risk of asthma-related deaths [Bateman, 
2008; Sears, 2009; Nelson, 2006]. Additionally, the benefits of LAMAs 
in asthma management have not been established.
It is plausible that asthma patients who are at an increased risk for asthma 
exacerbations are also at risk of serious respiratory events. Risk factors for 
exacerbations include poorly controlled asthma, viral or respiratory 
infections and exposure to asthma triggers (e.g. pet ownership, smoking). 
Moreover, asthma disease severity, classified by either frequency and/or 
dose of medications used, hospitalisation for exacerbations or lung 
function measurements, has been repeatedly correlated to the risk of 
asthma-related death [DiSantostefano, 2008].
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
Section 4.4 of the SmPC (also Section 1 and 2 of Product Leaflet).
Additional risk minimisation measures: None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
None
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan.
II.C
II.C.1
Post-authorisation development plan
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorisation:
Study Short Name: Post-Authorisation Safety (PAS) Observational Cohort to quantify the 
Incidence and Comparative Safety of Selected Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Events in 
COPD patients using Inhaled UMEC/VI Combination or Inhaled UMEC versus Tiotropium
(Study 201038)
Page 5 of 6
Purpose of the Study: The purpose of this study is to expand understanding of the potential 
cardiovascular (CV) and cerebrovascular risks of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke and new 
onset or acute worsening/decompensation heart failure of UMEC/VI and UMEC as compared 
to tiotropium. Tiotropium is a LAMA with a well-established safety and efficacy profile.
The primary objectives of the study are: 
1. To demonstrate non-inferiority of UMEC/VI combination and UMEC to tiotropium for
risk of the composite endpoint of MI, stroke, heart failure or sudden cardiac death  based
on an analysis of time to first event for new users of UMEC/VI combination, UMEC or
Tiotropium.
2. To quantify the incidence rate and frequency of the composite endpoint of MI, stroke heart
failure or sudden cardiac death  for new users of UMEC/VI combination, UMEC, or
tiotropium.
Page 6 of 6
 
