Summary of risk management plan for Ledaga 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ledaga. The RMP details important risks 
of  Ledaga,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Ledaga risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ledaga summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ledaga should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ledaga should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all  which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). Important new concerns or changes to the current ones 
will be included in updates of Ledaga RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Ledaga is indicated in adults for the for the topical treatment of mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous 
T-cell lymphoma (MF-type CTCL) in adult patients. Ledaga contains chlormethine as active substance 
and it is given by topical route. Further information about the evaluation of Ledaga benefits can be 
found in Ledaga EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Ledaga,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  are  outlined  below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products are the following: 
  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly. 
 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine  risk  minimisation  measures.  In  addition  to  these 
measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and  regularly  analysed, 
including  PSUR/PBRER  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken,  as  necessary.  These 
measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance  activities.  In  the  case  of  Ledaga,  these measures 
are supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important 
risks, below. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Ledaga is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Ledaga  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks of Ledaga can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ledaga. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based 
on  some  preliminary  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  fully  proven  and  needs  further 
evaluation. 
Missing  information  refers  to  information on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Toxicity to mucous membranes/eye 
Important potential risks 
Secondary exposure to someone other than the patient 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Toxicity to mucous membranes/eye 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Nitrogen mustards are highly reactive vescicant and alkylating agents 
which  combines  with  proteins,  DNA,  and  other  molecules.  Therefore, 
when nitrogen mustards are absorbed into body, the contacted tissue 
may be damaged. Symptoms of exposure to mucous membranes, such 
as  the  oral  mucosa  or  nasal  mucosa  may  include  pain,  redness  and 
ulceration which may be severe. Exposure of the eyes to chlormethine 
can cause pain, burns, inflammation, photophobia, and blurred vision. 
Blindness and severe irreversible anterior eye injury may occur. 
Patients  with  history  of  allergy,  with  pre-existing  eye  disorders  like 
conjunctivitis  or  with  irritated  oral  or  nasal  mucosa  may  be  at  higher 
risk for experiencing toxicity to mucous membranes/eye. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC Sections 4.4  
 
PL sections 2 
Additional  risk  minimisation  measures:  Ledaga  is  supplied  in  a 
transparent sealable plastic bag, and a patient alert card is included in 
the packaging with the patient information leaflet.  
Risk  factors  and  risk 
groups 
Risk 
measures 
minimisation 
Important potential risk: Secondary exposure to someone other than the patient 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
As  chlormethine  is  a  cytotoxic,  bifunctional  alkylating  agent,  toxic 
effects  on  individuals  who  administer  the  drug,  including  health  care 
workers and family members, may be encountered. 
Potential risk groups are caregivers and family members in close contact 
with patients. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Risk  factors  and  risk 
groups 
Risk 
measures 
minimisation 
  SmPC Section 4.2, 4.4 and 6.3 
 
PL section 2, 3 and 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional  risk  minimisation  measures:  Ledaga  is  supplied  in  a 
transparent sealable plastic bag, and a patient alert card is included in 
the packaging with the patient information leaflet.  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are  no studies which are  conditions  of the marketing authorisation or  specific obligation of 
Ledaga. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ledaga. 
 
 
 
 
