EMA/CHMP/328573/2014 
EMEA/H/C/001227 
EPAR summary for the public 
Leflunomide medac 
leflunomide  
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Leflunomide medac. 
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Leflunomide medac. 
What is Leflunomide medac? 
Leflunomide medac is a medicine that contains the active substance leflunomide. It is available as 
tablets (10, 15 and 20 mg). 
Leflunomide medac is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Leflunomide medac is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Arava. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Leflunomide medac used for? 
Leflunomide medac is used to treat adults with active rheumatoid arthritis (an immune system disease 
causing inflammation of the joints) or active psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on 
the skin and inflammation of the joints). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Leflunomide medac used? 
Leflunomide medac treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist who has experience in 
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. The doctor should carry out blood tests to 
check the patient’s liver, white blood cell counts and platelet counts before prescribing Leflunomide 
medac, and regularly during treatment. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Leflunomide medac treatment usually starts with a ‘loading dose’ of 100 mg once a day for three days, 
followed by a maintenance dose. The recommended maintenance dose is 10 to 20 mg once a day in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 mg once a day in patients with psoriatic arthritis. The 
medicine usually starts to have an effect after four to six weeks. Its effect may improve further for up 
to six months. 
How does Leflunomide medac work? 
The active substance in Leflunomide medac, leflunomide, is an immunosuppressant. It reduces 
inflammation by reducing the production of immune cells called ‘lymphocytes’, which are responsible 
for inflammation. Leflunomide does this by blocking an enzyme called ‘dihydroorotate dehydrogenase’, 
which is necessary for the lymphocytes to multiply. With fewer lymphocytes, there is less 
inflammation, helping to control the symptoms of arthritis. 
How has Leflunomide medac been studied? 
Because Leflunomide medac is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Arava. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Leflunomide medac? 
Because Leflunomide medac is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Leflunomide medac been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Leflunomide medac has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Arava. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Arava, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Leflunomide medac 
be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Leflunomide medac ? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Leflunomide medac is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Leflunomide medac, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Leflunomide medac: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Leflunomide medac on 27 July 2010.  
The full EPAR for Leflunomide medac can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Leflunomide medac, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2014. 
Leflunomide medac  
EMA/CHMP/328573/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
