20 May 2010
EMA/481781/2010
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation
Assessment report
Leflunomide medac
International Non-proprietary Name: Leflunomide
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/1227
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Table of contents
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3
1.1. Submission of the dossier......................................................................................3
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product.........................................................4
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5
2.1 Introduction..........................................................................................................5
2.2 Quality aspects .....................................................................................................5
2.3 Non-Clinical aspects...............................................................................................8
2.4 Clinical Aspects .....................................................................................................9
2.5. Discussion on Clinical aspects .............................................................................. 14
2.6. Pharmacovigilance.............................................................................................. 15
 PSUR .................................................................................................................. 22
2.7. User consultation ............................................................................................... 22
2.8. Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ........................... 23
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 2/23
1. Background information on the procedure
1.1. Submission of the dossier
The applicant medac, Gesellschaft für klinische Spezialpräparate mbH submitted on 8 September 2009 
an  application  for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Leflunomide 
medac,  in  accordance  with  the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to
Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’.
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Community  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Article 8 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. During the evaluation of this application, the applicant 
requested  to  change  the  proposed  name  for  this  medicinal  product  from  Leflutab  to  Leflunomide 
medac.
The chosen reference product is:
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Arava, 10 mg, film-coated tablets

 Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, D-65926 Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany
Date of authorisation:  02-09-1999

 Marketing authorisation granted by: Community

Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/118/001
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies: 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Arava, 20 mg, film-coated tablets

 Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, D-65926 Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany
Date of authorisation:  02-09-1999

 Marketing authorisation granted by: Community

Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/118/005-008, EU/1/99/118/005-
010
Bioavailability study number(s): 80427

Medicinal Product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
used in other studies 
Not applicable

The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team were:
Rapporteur :
Pharmacovigilance Rapporteur :
Dr. Martina Weise
Dr. Barbara van Zwieten-Boot
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 3/23
Scientific Advice:
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP.
Licensing status:
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application.
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product



The application was received by the Agency on 8 September 2009.
The procedure started on 23 September 2009.
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 December 
2009.
 During the meeting on 18 to 20 January 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 January 2010.
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 March 
2010.
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 April 2010.


 During the meeting on 17 to 20 May 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Leflunomide medac on 20 May 2010. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 20 May 2010.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 4/23
2. Scientific discussion
2.1 Introduction
Leflunomide  medac  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  leflunomide  as  active  substance.  Two 
strengths  have  been  developed;  10  mg  and  20  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The  reference  medicinal 
product Arava has been centrally authorized on 2 September 1999 and is currently available as 10 mg, 
20 mg and 100 mg film-coated tablets.
Leflunomide  is  an  immunomodulator  with  anti-inflammatory,  analgesic,  and  antipyretic  activity 
mediated primarily through inhibition of dihyroorotate dehydrogenase, an enzyme required for the de 
novo  production  of  pyrimidine.  Leflunomide  is  a  prodrug  which  is  rapidly  metabolized  to  its  active 
metabolite  which  possesses  symptom-,  inflammation-  and  structure-modifying  activities  in  patients 
with active rheumatoid arthritis. It has been approved as a DMARD (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
drug) for use in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the European Union.
The recommended dose for a therapy with leflunomide in rheumatoid arthritis is started with a loading 
dose of 100 mg once daily for 3 days. The recommended maintenance dose for rheumatoid arthritis is 
leflunomide  10  mg  to  20  mg  once  daily.  Patients  may  be  started  on  leflunomide  10  mg  or  20  mg 
depending on the severity (activity) of the disease.
The  proposed  indication  for  Leflunomide  medac  is  identical  to  the  first  licensed  indication  of  the
reference medicinal product Arava. However, the second indication ‘active psoriatic arthritis’ of Arava is 
deleted  from  the  texts  of  this  application  because  of  patents  which  are  still  in  force  according  to  the
applicant.
The  applicant  has  developed  leflunomide  tablets  of  10 mg  and  20 mg strength  and  has  shown 
bioequivalence  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Arava.  All  the  published  clinical  and  non-clinical 
experience on leflunomide can be therefore transferred to the Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets.
The excipients used in the tablet core and coating of Leflunomide medac are different from those used 
in the reference product Arava. All excipients are of compendial quality and are standard for this type 
of formulation.
2.2 Quality aspects
2.2.1. Introduction
Leflunomide medac is presented as film-coated tablets containing leflunomide as active substance. Two 
strengths have been developed: 10 mg and 20 mg. Other ingredients are defined in the SmPC, section 
6.1. The film-coated tablets are packed in a HDPE bottle with screw cap with integrated desiccant. 
2.2.2. Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  leflunomide  is  5-Methyl-N-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]isoxazole-4-carboxamide 
with  molecular  formula  C12H9F3N2O2  and  relative  molecular  mass  270.2.  It  appears  as  a  white  or 
almost  white  powder  that  is  practically  insoluble  in  water,  freely  soluble  in  methanol  and  sparingly 
soluble in methylene chloride. Leflunomide does not contain any chiral centres, hence it does not have 
optical  isomers.  Leflunomide  shows  polymorphism.  At  least  three  different  polymorphic  forms  are 
described for leflunomide, i.e. Form I, II and III. One polymorphic form is consistently formed during 
the  active  substance  production  and  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  finished  product. There  is  a 
monograph of leflunomide in the PhEur.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 5/23
 Manufacture
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  the  active  substance  leflunomide  is  supplied  by  one  manufacturer. 
The manufacturer has been issued a Certificate of Suitability (CEP) with the PhEur for the manufacture 
of leflunomide.  The  manufacturing  process  of  leflunomide,  starting  materials,  justification  of  critical 
steps, process control and their evaluation, critical process intermediates and acceptance criteria have 
been  evaluated  by  the  European Directorate  for  the  Quality  of  Medicines  (EDQM)  before  granting  the 
Certificate of Suitability. The applicant refers to this CEP for the manufacturing details of leflunomide.
 Specification
For the active substance specifications reference is made to the CEP. Certificates of Analysis have been 
provided  for  three  batches  of  leflunomide  manufactured  by  the  proposed  active  substance 
manufacturer and demonstrate the compliance of quality with the PhEur monograph and the additional 
specifications stated on the CEP.
The active substance is also tested by the finished product manufacturer according to the methods and 
specifications laid down in the PhEur monograph for leflunomide. In addition to the tests described in 
the PhEur monograph, the following parameters are tested by the finished product manufacturer upon 
receipt of the active substance: residual solvents (toluene, acetone) and particle size. 
Certificates of Analysis have been provided by the finished product manufacturer and show compliance 
with  the  specifications  of  the  PhEur  monograph  and  the  additional  specifications  defined  by  finished 
product manufacturer.  
 Stability
The active substance is stored in double LDPE bags which are placed in a HDPE drum. Details on the 
container closure system are included in the CEP. Stability results have been provided when applying 
for the CEP. The CEP includes a re-test period and specifies the container for storage.
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 1 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA.
2.2.3. Medicinal Product
 Pharmaceutical Development
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  develop  conventional-release  film-coated  tablets 
which are essentially similar and bioequivalent to the reference product Arava from Sanofi-Aventis. The 
reference product Arava exists as film-coated tablets containing 10 mg, 20 mg or 100 mg leflunomide. 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  only  the  two  lower  strengths  have  been  developed  for  Leflunomide 
medac.
Leflunomide is  practically insoluble  in  water.  Therefore, studies  have  been  carried out  to  characterize 
the solubility of the active substance leflunomide in pharmaceutical relevant media at 37ºC. 
Leflunomide shows polymorphism. Studies demonstrated that no change in leflunomide's polymorphic 
form is observable, neither during manufacturing of final dosage form, nor during storage of the final 
dosage form. 
Special efforts have been undertaken by the applicant to prevent the formation of leflunomide impurity 
B  (teriflunomide)  in  the  generic  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  during  manufacturing  and 
storage.  The  impurity  profiles  of  Leflumonide  medac  film-coated  tablets  20  mg  have  been  compared 
with Arava 20 mg film-coated tablets. Except for impurity B both medicinal products show comparable 
impurity levels; Leflunomide medac features lower content of teriflunomide (impurity B).
In  solid  dosage  forms,  particle  size  can  affect  the  content  uniformity,  dissolution  and  other  granular 
characteristics such as flowability. Therefore, the particle size of different leflunomide active substance 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 6/23
                                               
batches has been determined by laser diffraction.  Comparative dissolution studies on several batches 
of  Leflunomide  medac  and  the  reference  product  Arava,  and  a  bioequivalence  study  have  been 
performed  to  ensure  that  the  chosen  particle  size  specification  is  adequate  to  ensure  a  consistent 
quality of the medicinal product.
A dissolution method has been developed which demonstrates to be able to detect adequately changes 
in  leflunomide's  release  from  the  film-coated  tablets.  Dissolution  profiles  of  the  Leflunomide  medac 
film-coated tablets and of Arava were determined in different media. The dissolution data confirm that 
the release of leflunomide from Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 20 mg and from Arava 20 mg 
film-coated tablets is similar.
Leflunomide medac is developed as film-coated tablets like the reference product Arava. However, the 
excipients  used  in  the  tablet  core  and  coating  are  different  from  the  reference  medicinal  product. 
Compatibility  studies  have  been  performed  to  confirm  that  there  are  no  incompatibilities  between 
leflunomide  and  the  chosen  excipients.  The  excipients  are  well  known  and  standard  for  this  type  of 
formulation.
Certificates  of  Analysis  have  been  provided  for  all  excipients  proving  their  pharmaceutical  quality.  A 
certificate  has  been  submitted to  confirm  that  magnesium stearate is  of  vegetable  origin.  For  lactose 
monohydrate  the  required  TSE  certificate  has  been  provided.  Leflunomide  medac  tablets  are  film-
coated.  The  coating  layer  has  the  function  of  taste  masking  and  protects  the  tablet  cores  from 
moisture and does not modify the release of leflunomide. 
The  formulation  of  the  product  used  in  the  bioequivalence study  is  the  same  as  the  one  intended  for 
marketing.  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  were  developed  in  two  different  dosage  strengths, 
i.e.  10  mg  and  20  mg,  but  the  bioequivalence  was  tested  and  demonstrated  on  the  20  mg  strength 
only. The bioequivalence study demonstrated that the 20 mg Leflunomide medac film-coated tablet is 
bioequivalent  to  Arava  20  mg  film-coated  tablet  (see  section  3.4  clinical  aspects).  All  respective 
requirements  are  fulfilled  to  extrapolate  the  results  of  the  bioequivalence  study  performed  on  the  20 
mg  strength  to  the  10  mg  strength.  In-vitro  dissolution  profiles  of 10  mg  Leflunomide  medac  film-
coated  tablets  confirm  similarity  of active  substance  release  to  the Leflunomide  medac  20  mg  film-
coated tablets and to the 10 mg film-coated tablet of the reference medicinal product. 
Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 20 mg have a break-mark on one side, i.e. the tablets may be 
subdivided in order to take half the dose per administration only or to ease the swallowing of tablets. 
The functionality of the score-line has been tested according to the PhEur monograph for Tablets and it 
was confirmed that the breakability meets the requirements set by the European Pharmacopoeia. 
 Manufacture of the Product
Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  10  mg  and  20  mg  are  manufactured  by  using  conventional 
granulation  followed  by  drying.  The  different  steps  are:  pre-mixing,  granulating,  drying,  tabletting, 
film-coating and packaging. 
The  manufacturing  of  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  10  mg/20  mg  is  based  on  a  common 
blend  approach,  i.e.  both  dosage  strengths  are  produced  only  by  adjusting  the  tablet  (core)  mass 
during  compression.  Adequate  in-process  controls  have  been  set  up.  The  acceptance  criteria  and  the 
test methods are adequately chosen to ensure that the drug product will comply with the specification 
limits.  A  detailed  manufacturing  description  and  flow  scheme  have  been  provided.  Validation  results 
have  been  presented  and  show  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  reproducible  and  results  in  a 
medicinal product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications.
 Product Specification 
The  finished  product  release  and  shelf-life  specifications  include  tests  for  description  (visual), 
identification  (HPLC,  UV),  resistance  to  crushing  (PhEur),  water  content  (Karl  Fischer),  dissolution 
(PhEur  with  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC)  and  related  substances  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (PhEur) 
and  microbiological  quality  (PhEur).  The  finished  product  specifications  are  standard  for  film-coated 
tablets.  The  proposed  test  procedures  and  acceptance  criteria  follow  the  principles  of  the  ICH  Q6A 
guideline.  All  tests  included  in  the  specification  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated. 
Appropriate  data  have  been  presented  to  justify  the  release  specifications  for  each  quality 
characteristic that is controlled. All excipients used in the formulation comply with the requirements of 
the European Pharmacopoeia. Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and found to 
be  acceptable  from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the  proposed 
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 7/23
specifications  and  confirm  consistency  &  uniformity  of  manufacture  and  indicate  that  the  process  is 
under control. 
 Stability of the Product
Stability studies have been carried out under long term (25°C/60% RH), intermediate (30°C/65% RH) 
and accelerated (40°C/75% RH) conditions according to the ICH requirements for two production scale 
batches and two smaller scale batches for each strength. For the production scale batches, up to nine 
months long term and intermediate term stability data and up to six months accelerated stability data 
have been provided. For the small scale batches, up to 24 months supportive long term stability data 
and up to six months accelerated stability data have been provided. The small scale batches have been 
manufactured  by  a  manufacturer  which  is  not  mentioned  in  this  marketing  authorisation  application 
and  the  results  are  presented  as  supportive  data  only.  The  production  scale  batches  have  been 
manufactured at the proposed site of finished product manufacture, according to the proposed process 
and  using  the  active  substance  obtained  from  the  proposed  active  substance  manufacturer.  The 
batches were packaged as proposed for marketing (in white, round HDPE bottles with PP closure and 
mounted desiccant insert). The parameters tested and analytical methods used are identical to those 
used for the release specifications. 
Furthermore, an in-use study has been conducted to establish a shelf life for Leflunomide medac after 
first opening of the container. In addition, a photostability study was performed on one batch of the 10 
mg film-coated tablets in accordance with ICH Q1B. The film-coated tablets were exposed to light (i) 
without  packaging,  (ii)  in  primary  packaging,  and  (iii)  in  secondary  packaging  applying  testing 
conditions according to CPMP/ICH/279/95. After irradiation the Leflunomide medac 10 mg film-coated 
tablets  directly  exposed  to  (UV)  light  show  no  changes  in  their  physical  or  chemical  properties.  The 
data  demonstrate  that  the  film-coated  tablets  are  not  sensitive  to  light.  Hence,  no  specific  storage 
recommendation  (label  statement)  is  required  for  the  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets.  In 
conclusion, the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life for the 
commercially  packaged  product  under  the  conditions  specified  in  the  SmPC.  In  accordance  with  EU 
GMP  guidelines2,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant  negative  trend,  should  be 
reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA.
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects “Overall conclusions 
and benefit/risk assessment”.    
Information on  development,  manufacture and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  medicinal  product 
has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the  clinic.  At  the
time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues which could have an impact on the 
benefit/risk ratio of the product.
2.3 Non-Clinical aspects
2.3.1. Pharmacology, Pharmacokinetics and Toxicology
As the pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of leflunomide are well known, 
no  further  non-clinical  studies  are  required  in  support  of  a  generic  marketing  authorisation  and 
therefore  no  new  non-clinical  data  was  provided  in  this  application.  The  applicant  submitted  a  non-
clinical  overview  based  on  a  literature  review  of  the  pre-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicology characteristics of leflunomide which is considered adequate. No further studies are required 
and  the  applicant  has  justified  why  no  such  data  was  provided.  The  non-clinical  properties  of 
leflunomide  are  adequately  summarized  in  the  SPC  which  is  identical  to  the  texts  of  the  reference 
medicinal product, Arava.
The  generic  and  reference  product  were  compared  with  regard  to  their  impurity  profiles,  and  the 
impurity profile of the generic medicinal product was considered acceptable.
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 8/23
                                               
2.3.2. Environmental Risk Assessment
The applicant did not present an environmental risk assessment (ERA) in the application by justifying 
that an increase in the environmental exposure is not expected and an environmental risk assessment 
was deemed not necessary. This was agreed by the CHMP.
2.4 Clinical Aspects
2.4.1. Introduction
The  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  (10  and  20  mg)  have  been  developed  as  a  generic 
equivalent  to  the  reference product  Arava, approved  in  the  EU  since  1999. To  support the  marketing 
authorisation,  the  applicant  submitted  a  pivotal  bioequivalence  (BE)  study  to  demonstrate 
bioequivalence  of  its  20  mg  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  with  the  reference  product  of  the 
same strength. The applicant provided a justification for the extrapolation of the bioequivalence study 
results to the 10 mg strength.
Scientific advice was not sought for the development program of this product. The clinical assessment 
took  into  consideration  the  recommendations  of  the  Guideline  on  the  investigation  of  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in its current version.
GCP
The  pivotal  study  was  complying  with  GCP,  as  stated by  the  applicant.  The  applicant  provided  a 
statement to the effect that clinical trial 80427 was conducted outside the Community and was carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.
2.4.2. Exemption 
The applicant has applied for marketing authorisation of Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets of 10 
mg and 20 mg strength but the bioequivalence was tested on the 20 mg strength only. In accordance
with 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  (Rev  1))  extrapolation  of  the  BE  results  to  another  strength  is  acceptable 
under certain conditions:
for  Guidance  on 
the  Note 
the 
Both  strengths  of  the  generic  medicinal  product  are  manufactured  by  the  same  manufacturer  and 
process,  have  the  same  qualitative  composition  and  the  same  ratio  between  amounts  of  active 
substance and excipients, i.e. the quantity of the formulation in the different strengths of leflunomide 
is  linear  (proportional  or  homothetic  formulation).  Also,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  leflunomide 
metabolite (M1), which is the analyte for the determination of bioequivalence in the pivotal study, are 
linear  over  the  range  of  loading  and  maintenance  doses  to  be  used  clinically.  And  finally,  in  vitro 
dissolution profiles for Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 10 mg confirming the similarity of drug 
substance release in comparison to Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 20 mg (bio batch) and 10 
mg strength of the reference medicinal product have also been submitted by the applicant.
As  all  requirements  are  fulfilled  for  Leflunomide  medac  film-coated  tablets  10  mg  /  20  mg  the 
extrapolation of the results of the bioequivalence study performed on the 20  mg dosage to the other 
dosage strength is acceptable. 
2.4.3. Clinical studies
To support this marketing authorisation, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study (study 
no. 80427) with Leflunomide medac 20 mg tablets (test product) and the approved reference product 
of the same strength (Arava (leflunomide) 20 mg tablet, Sanofi-Aventis) (Table 1).
Table 1
Study 
Design and 
Type of 
Summary of leflunomide bioequivalence study no. 80427
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen; Route 
of Administration
Number/Type 
of Subjects
Duration of
Treatment
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 9/23
Control
Randomised, 
open-label, 
1-way 
parallel
BE 
assessment 
(compare the 
rate and 
extent of 
absorption 
between test 
and 
reference 
product)
LFL administration for 1 x 20mg: Group 1: 
Subject 1 – 25 
Group 2: Subject 26 – 50 
All subject were administered the test or 
reference medication (as per randomization 
schedule) as a single dose of 1 tablet 
containing 20 mg leflunomide in fasting state
n = 50 
(enrolled and 
randomized); n 
= 50 
(completed) 
/ healthy 
subjects
Single dose
2.4.4. Pharmacokinetics 
 Methods
Study design
Study  80427  was  a  randomised,  open-label,  one-way  parallel,  bioequivalence  study  of  the  generic 
leflunomide 20 mg tablet and the reference product (Arava film-coated tablet) following a single 20 mg 
dose  in  healthy  subjects  under  fasting  conditions.  A  parallel  design  has  been  chosen  for  this  study 
because of the very long elimination half-life of the active metabolite of 8 to 14 days.
Study  subjects  were  confined  to  the  clinical  testing  facility  from  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  drug 
administration  until  after  the  24.0  hour  post-dose  blood  draw.  No  food  was  allowed  from  at  least  10 
hours  before  dosing  until  at  least  4  hours  after  dosing.  Not  less  than  4  hours  post-dose,  and  at 
approximately  9  hours  after  dosing,  subjects  were  served  a  standard  meal  as  well  as  a  snack 
approximately  13  hours  after  dosing.  With  the  exception  of  the  volume  administered  at  the  time  of 
dosing, fluids were not permitted from 1 hour pre to 2 hours post dosing; at all other times water ad 
libitum was permitted.
Blood samples of 3 ml were collected prior to study drug administration and 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 
9, 10, 12, 16, 24, 48, 72, 120 and 168 hours post-dose.
The conduct of the clinical study, bioanalytic as well as pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses were 
performed by a contract research organisation.
The clinical study protocol and associated documents were reviewed and approved by an Institutional 
Review Board and the competent regulatory authority prior to start of study procedures. There were no 
major  protocol  deviations  or  amendments.  The  enrolment  and  treatment  periods  were  started  and 
finished in spring/summer 2009.
Test and reference products
Test product:
Manufactured by:
Batch no.:
Manufacturing date:
Expiry date:
Leflunomide medac 20 mg film-coated tablet
Haupt Pharma Münster GmbH, Germany)
H0632B
January 21, 2009
01/2010
The  formulation  of  the  test  product  used  in  the  bioequivalence  study  is  the 
same than that intended for marketing. 
Reference product:
Manufactured by:
Batch no.:
Manufacturing date:
Expiry date:
Leflunomide (Arava) 20 mg film-coated tablet
Sanofi-Aventis, Hungary 
8E69E
August 29, 2008
07/2011
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 10/23
Population studied
A total of 50 healthy subjects of both genders with a body mass index (BMI)  between 19.0 and 29.0 
were enrolled, randomised and dosed. There were no withdrawals or drop-outs during the study and all 
subjects  completed  the  study.  For  all  subjects  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  adequately 
characterised and all 50 subjects constituted the PK and safety population.
Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  acceptable  for  this  type  of  study.  For  a  specified  period  prior  to 
dosing  and  during  the  study,  subjects  were  required  to  abstain  from  food  and  beverages  containing 
xanthine,  grapefruit  or  pomelo  as  well  as  alcohol,  tobacco,  natural  health  products  and  soft  or  hard 
drugs.  Concomitant  medication  use  during  the  study  was  recorded.  Patients  were  instructed  not  to 
receive live attenuated vaccine prior or within 2 weeks after study drug administration and advised not 
to use hormone replacement therapy from 28 days prior to study drug administration until the end of 
the sample collection period.
The  study  was  conducted  in  24  healthy  adult  sterile  male  (≥18  and  ≤55  years  of  age)  and  26  post-
menopausal  female  (≥18  and  ≤70  years  of  age),  non-smokers.  The  average  age  was  52  years. 
According to sample size estimation, 42 subjects had to be included for achieving an 80% power of the 
bioequivalence study. In order to account for possible dropouts, 50 subjects were enrolled. Pheno- or 
genotyping  was  considered  dispensable  since  biotransformation  does  not  depend  on  one  specific 
enzyme. Subjects per groups are listed in the table below.
Table 2
Summary of demographic data
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 11/23
  A=Test product 
  B=reference product 
Analytical methods
Since  the  parent  compound,  leflunomide,  is  a  pro-drug  which  is  rapidly  converted  to  the  active 
metabolite,  A771726  (or  M1),  the  latter  compound  was  the  analyte  to  compare  rate  and  extent  of 
absorption between test and the reference drug.
Plasma  concentrations  were  analyzed  by  means  of  a  validated  LC-MS/MS  method.  The  analytical 
method has been appropriately validated.
Pharmacokinetic Variables
The pharmacokinetic parameters AUC0-168h and Cmax of the metabolite M1 (A771726) were considered 
as relevant pharmacokinetic variables to assess bioequivalence of test and reference. In addition, tmax
values were evaluated.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 12/23
Statistical methods
Analyses  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  performed  on  the  metabolite’s  (A771726)  data  of  AUC  until  168h 
and  Cmax  using  SAS  procedure.  A  non-parametric  test  (Wilcoxon’s  Signed-Rank  test)  was  used  to 
compare tmax. Ratios of least-square means were calculated based on pairwise comparisons of the ln-
transformed AUC  and  Cmax  data  and  inter-subject  CVs  were  determined.  The  pre-specified  criteria  for 
the  conclusion  of  bioequivalence  were  that  the  90%  geometric  confidence  intervals  of  the  ratio  of 
least-squares means from the ANOVA of the ln-transformed values of both AUC0-t and Cmax should be 
within the range of 80% to 125%.
Results
Two  subjects  were  withdrawn  from  the  study prior  to  receiving  study  medication -  one  due  to  AE 
(rhinitis  and  pharyngitis),  and  one  subject  who  did  not  respect  the  xanthine  restriction  (250  ml  of 
coffee)  required  prior  to  the  moring  check-in  period.  This  subject  was  subsequently  enrolled  as 
replacement for the first subject as it was assumed that the effects of one cup of coffee taken approx. 
24 hours before dosing on the metabolism of lefunomide should be minimal. The subject himself was 
replaced by a stand-by healthy volunteer.
The pharmacokinetic parameters obtained in the 50 subjects who were included in the analysis as well 
as the results of the statistical analysis for ln-transformed data are presented in Table 3.
Table 3
Pharmacokinetic parameters for M1 (A771726) – 168 hours post-dose
Parameter
Geometric means + SD 
Ratios of least-square means
Test
(Leflunomide 
(A))
Reference
(Arava (B))
Point 
Estimator
210935.62 
+38386.43
222653.33 
+41730.67
94.85%
90% 
Confidence 
Interval
86.72 -
103.74 %
Inter-
Subject 
CV
19.06%
2053.27
+299.88
2184.14
+401.32
94.53%
87.32 -
102.33 %
16.84%
AUC0-168h
[ng.h/ml]
Cmax [ng/ml]
Tmax [h]
3.00
+1.61
3.04 
+1.62
n.d.
n.d.
n.d.
It  is  generally  accepted  that  AUC  calculated  until  72  hours  post-dose  should  be  relevant  to  assess 
extent  of  bioavailability  for  compounds  with  very  long  half-lives  in  immediate  release  formulations 
since  no  formulation  related  absorption  process  is  anticipated  beyond  this  time  period.  The  applicant 
has provided truncated AUC0-72h during the assessment procedure which showed similar variability as 
the originally submitted data of AUC0-168h (Table 4). The ratio analysis and the 90% confidence interval 
confirm bioequivalence also for the AUC0-72h.
Table 4
Pharmacokinetic parameters for M1 (A771726) – 72 hours post-dose
Ratio
AUC0-168h
94.85%
AUC0-72h
94.71%
Cmax
94.53%
90% Geometric CI
86.72 to 103.74%
87.22% to 102.84%
87.32 to 102.33%
Inter-Subject CV
19.06%
17.31%
16.84%
Safety data:
Both  formulations  were  well  tolerated  and  no  SAE  were  reported  during  the  study.  A  total  of  17 
treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAE)  were  reported  by  11  of  the  50  subjects  who  received  at 
least one dose of the study medication (safety population). The breakdown by treatment group was as 
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 13/23
follows: 13 TEAEs reported by 28.0% (n=7) of the 25 subjects who received generic leflunomide and 4 
TEAEs  reported  by  16.0% (n=4)  of  the  25  subjects  who  received  the  reference  product  (Arava). The 
reported  adverse  events  were  mild  to  moderate  in  intensity,  and  none  were  judged  significant  or 
serious. The most commonly reported TEAE was headache (6%), an event that is listed in the SPC of 
the  reference  product  as  “common”.  All  other  TEAE  were  reported  by  no  more  than  4%  (n=2)  of 
subjects.

Conclusions
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  the  Leflunomide  medac  20  mg  film-coated  tablets  are 
considered bioequivalent with the reference product, Arava 20 mg film-coated tablets.
2.4.5. Pharmacodynamics
No new pharmacodynamic data have been provided by the applicant. These data are not required for 
this particular application.
2.4.6. Post marketing experience
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.
2.5. Discussion on Clinical aspects
A single-dose, open-label bioequivalence study (80427) using a parallel design under fasting conditions 
has performed to demonstrate bioequivalence of the test product containing 20 mg leflunomide to the 
reference product Arava. The applicant has justified the choice of a parallel design with the very long 
elimination  half-life  of  the  active  metabolite.  While  cholestyramin  may  be  used  to  accelerate  drug 
elimination,  the  parallel  study  design  was  regarded  the  best  possible  option.  This  approach  was 
considered  acceptable.  The  fasted  study  design  was  considered  sufficient  because  leflunomide 
administered  with  a  high  fat/high  carbohydrate  meal  was  previously  found  bioequivalent  to 
administration under fasted conditions. According to the reference medicinal product’s SPC the extent 
of  absorption  is  not  affected  by  concomitant  food  intake.  Of  note,  since  the  parent  compound  is  a 
prodrug and rapidly converted to the active metabolite, A771726 (or M1), the latter compound was the 
analyte used in the BE study. Overall, the design of this study was considered adequate for an orally 
administered  immediate  release  formulation  with  systemic  action  and  the  chosen  analyte  (M1)  was 
acceptable.
Adequate  methods  have  been  employed  for  bioanalytical  and  statistical  measurements  and 
evaluations, respectively. Protocol violations are considered minor and do not affect the outcome of the 
study. The study has been performed according to current standards and adequately reported.
Overall  study  results  are  in  line  with  published  data  on  leflunomide  although  the  time  to  maximum 
concentrations seems significantly shorter in the current study (about 3 hours) than generally indicated 
(e.g. 5-24 hours). The estimated 90%-confidence intervals are within the preset acceptance range, i.e. 
80-125%,  for  AUC0-168h  and  Cmax.  Based  on  the  reported  data,  both  formulations  can  be  considered 
bioequivalent and expected to behave similarly in vivo following a single dose of 20 mg in the  fasted 
state. 
The safety profiles of both preparations are acceptable since the reported adverse events were mild or 
moderate  in  intensity,  and  none  were  judged  significant  or  serious.  All  resolved  without  further 
sequelae.  All  events  corresponded  to  the  known  safety  profile  of  the  drug.  No  pathological  findings 
were recorded in the post-study physical examinations. 
The results of study 80427 with 20 mg  film-coated tablet can be extrapolated to other strengths (10 
mg),  according  to  conditions  laid  out  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability 
and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) that have been met by this application.
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the leflunomide 20 mg film-coated tablets are considered 
bioequivalent with the reference product, Arava.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 14/23
2.6. Pharmacovigilance 
2.6.1. Description of the Pharmacovigilance system
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  as  described  in  version  7  dated  4  May 
2009 presented in Module 1.8.1. of the Marketing Authorisation Application, is in place and functioning 
before and whilst the product is on the market.
2.6.2. Risk Management Plan
The MAH submitted a risk management plan, version 03 dated 18 May 2010, which included a risk 
minimisation plan.
Table Summary of the risk management plan
Safety concern
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine 
activities (routine and additional)
and additional)
Important identified risks
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 15/23
Hepatic reactions
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Special attention in PSUR
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients with impairment of liver function 
or with severe hypoproteinemia.
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that rare 
cases of severe liver injury, including cases with 
fatal outcome, have been reported during 
treatment with leflunomide and stating that ALT 
must be checked before and during treatment, 
providing guidance as regards the frequency of 
testing during treatment and patient management 
in the event of increased transaminases.
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC with regard to 
transaminase elevation, hepatitis, jaundice and 
severe liver injury including hepatic failure as 
Undesirable effects.
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] of SPC 
concerning the increased risk of serious adverse 
reactions with recent or concurrent use of
hepatotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate).
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC).
Communication and Educational Program to 
emphasize to prescribers the importance of 
monitoring liver function.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 16/23
Blood cytopenia
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having significantly impaired 
bone marrow function or significant anemia, 
leukocytopenia or thrombocytopenia due to causes 
other than rheumatoid arthritis.
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that a 
complete blood cell count, including differential 
white blood cell count and platelets, must be 
performed before and during treatment and 
recommending that treatment with leflunomide be 
discontinued in the event of severe hematologic 
reactions, including pancytopenia, with a washout 
procedure to be administered (details provided).
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC on Undesirable 
effects.
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] of SPC 
concerning the increased risk of serious adverse 
reactions with recent or concurrent use of
hematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate).
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Severe skin 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
reactions
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having a hypersensitivity to the 
active substance (especially previous Stevens-
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, 
erythema multiforme) or to any of the excipients.
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that very 
rare cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic 
epidermal necrolysis have been reported during 
treatment with leflunomide and recommending 
that treatment with leflunomide be discontinued in 
the event of severe skin and/or mucosal reactions 
and washout procedure to be administered (details 
provided).
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Infections
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having severe infections.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 17/23
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that 
medications with immunosuppressive properties, 
like leflunomide, can cause patients to be more 
susceptible to infections, including opportunistic 
infections, recommending that treatment with 
leflunomide be discontinued in the event of severe 
uncontrolled infections, and that a washout 
procedure be administered in the event that 
severe, uncontrolled infections occur.
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that rare 
cases of Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalo-
pathy (PML) have been reported in receiving 
leflunomide among other immunosuppressants.
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC about this risk 
as an Undesirable effect. 
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription). 
Communication and Educational Program to 
emphasize to prescribers the immunosupresive 
properties of leflunomide, the risk of infections 
including opportunistic infections and the 
contraindication for use in immuno-compromised 
patients.
Interstitial lung 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
disease
Special attention in PSUR
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that ILD 
has been reported during treatment with 
leflunomide, that it is a potentially fatal disorder, 
and that pulmonary symptoms, such as cough and 
dyspnea, may be a reason for discontinuing 
treatment. Advice on administration of a washout 
procedure in the event of discontinuation.
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC about this 
risk as an Undesirable event.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 18/23
Progressive 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labelling
Multifocal 
Special attention in PSUR
Leukoencephalo-
pathy (PML) 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that rare 
cases of Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalo-
pathy (PML) have been reported in receiving 
leflunomide among other immunosuppressants.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Teratogenicity
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Special attention in PSUR
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to pregnant women, or women of child-
bearing potential who are not using reliable 
contraception during treatment with leflunomide.
Recommendations in [Section 4.6] of the SPC with 
regard to the use of effective contraception during 
and up to 2 years after treatment, and on the need 
to monitor menstrual status in women of  
childbearing potential. Instructions on the washout 
procedure or waiting period to be applied for 
women who wish to become pregnant are also 
provided. Reference is made to the results of the 
OTIS study in [Section 4.6] of the SPC.
Communication and Educational Program to 
communicate the risk of teratogenicity and to 
emphasize the recommendation to patients to 
avoid pregnancy until leflunomide levels are at an 
appropriate level.
Ad hoc information service to provide patients 
and prescribers with information on the testing of 
plasma leflunomide levels after the waiting period.
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC).
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 19/23
Hypertension
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that blood 
pressure must be checked before the start of 
treatment with leflunomide and periodically
thereafter. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC about this 
risk as an Undesirable effect.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Interaction with 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
other DMARDs 
Special attention in PSUR
(methotrexate)
Important potential risks
Indication in [Section 4.1] of SPC contains a 
reminder about the risk of initiating leflunomide in 
the event of recent or concurrent treatment with
other hepatotoxic or hematotoxic DMARDs. A 
washout procedure is recommended when 
switching from leflunomide to another DMARD.
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that 
concomitant administration of hepatotoxic or 
hematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) is not
advisable.
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC).
Communication and educational activities to 
ensure the safe and effective use of leflunomide in 
the appropriate patient population, particularly 
with regard to combination with other DMARDs.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 20/23
male-mediated fetal 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
toxicity
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that male 
patients should be aware of the possibility of male-
mediated fetal toxicity and recommending that 
reliable contraception be used during treatment 
with leflunomide. Instructions on the washout 
procedure and waiting period to be applied for men 
who wish to father a child are also provided.
Information in [Section 4.8] referring to decreases 
in sperm concentration, total sperm count and 
rapid progressive motility as Undesirable effects.
For the patient, [Section 2 of the Package Leaflet]
provides counseling for male patients who wish to 
father a child.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription).
Lympho-proliferative 
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
disorders
Special attention in PSUR
Reference in [Section 4.8] of the SPC to the fact 
that the risk of malignancy, particularly 
lymphoproliferative disorders, is increased with
the use of some immunosuppressive agents.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription). 
Renal failure
Routine pharmacovigilance
[Section 4.8] of SPC lists renal failure as an 
Special attention in PSUR
undesirable effect with an unknown frequency.
Important missing information
Use in children
Routine pharmacovigilance
Labeling
Reference in [Section 4.2] of the SPC to the fact 
that leflunomide is not recommended for use in 
patients below 18 years of age.
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription). 
Interaction with 
Routine pharmacovigilance
There is no specific recommendation about the 
biological DMARDs
Special attention in PSUR
concomitant use of leflunomide with biologic 
DMARDs in the SPC, however both types of 
treatment have their prescription restricted to 
specialists.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 21/23
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product  in  line  with  the  risk  minimisation  activities  already  approved  for  the  reference  medicinal 
product: 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to
prescribe/use Leflunomide medac are provided with a physician educational pack containing the 
following:
 The Summary of Product Characteristics
 Physician Leaflet
The Physician Leaflet should contain the following key messages:
 That there is a risk of severe liver injury and so regular measurement of ALT (SGPT) levels to
monitor liver function is important. The information provided in the Physician Leaflet should
provide information on dose reduction, discontinuation and wash out procedures.
 The identified risk of synergistic hepato- or haematotoxicity associated with combination
therapy with another Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drug (e.g. methotrexate)
 That there is a risk of teratogenicity and so pregnancy must be avoided until leflunomide
plasma levels are at an appropriate level. Physicians and patients should be made aware that
there is an ad hoc advisory service available to provide information on leflunomide plasma
level laboratory testing
 The risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and the contraindication for use in
immuno-compromised patients.
 The need to counsel patients on important risks associated with leflunomide therapy and
appropriate precautions when using the medicine.
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  shall  ensure  that  any  changes  to  the  safety  profile  of  the 
reference medicinal product requiring changes to the Risk Management Plan or Product Information are 
immediately implemented for Leflunomide medac.
In order to ensure the safe and effective use of this medicinal product, there needs to be consistency 
between the national implementation of the risk minimisation measures for Leflunomide medac and the 
physician  education  pack  already  in  place  in  the  Member  States  for  the  reference  medicinal  product 
Arava. Therefore, an Annex IV to the CHMP opinion is provided to allow consistent implementation of 
the risk minimisation measures by the Member States.
 PSUR
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, Arava.
2.7. User consultation
A  user-testing  has  been  performed  for  the  package  leaflet  of  the  reference  product,  Arava.  The 
applicant  has  used  the  user-tested  package  leaflet  of  Arava  as  a  basis  for  the  Leflunomide  medac 
package leaflet and has performed a bridging study. The differences between both package leaflets are 
considered  minor  and  do  not  affect  readability.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  considers  that  no  further  user-
testing is necessary for Leflunomide medac.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 22/23
2.8. Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment
The applicant has applied for marketing authorisation for Leflunomide medac 10 mg and 20 mg film-
coated  tablets  based  on  a  claimed  bioequivalence  with  a  marketed  reference  product  Arava.  No 
nonclinical  studies  have  been  provided  for  this  generic  application  but  an  adequate  summary  of  the 
available  nonclinical  information  for  the  active  substance  was  presented.  From  a  clinical  perspective, 
this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  active  substance  leflunomide;  the  pivotal  basis  forms  an  appropriately 
designed bioequivalence study comparing a single dose of the generic leflunomide 20 mg film-coated 
tablets with the reference product (study no. 80427). As demonstrated, the estimated 90% confidence 
intervals were within the pre-specified acceptance range, i.e. 80-125%, for AUC0-168h and Cmax. Based 
on the reported data, both formulations can be considered bioequivalent. 
In accordance  with the “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of  Bioavailability and Bioequivalence” 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  Rev  1)  the  applicant  provided  a  justification  for  the  extrapolation  of  the 
bioequivalence study results to the 10 mg strength. This justification is considered acceptable.
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical and clinical  data and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Recommendation
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio  of  Leflunomide  medac  in  the  indication  as  mentioned  below  was  favourable and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Leflunomide medac is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with:
• active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD).
Recent or concurrent treatment with hepatotoxic or haematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) may
result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions; therefore, the initiation of leflunomide
treatment has to be carefully considered regarding these benefit/risk aspects.
Moreover, switching from leflunomide to another DMARD without following the washout procedure
(see section 4.4) may also increase the risk of serious adverse reactions even for a long time after the
switching.
Leflunomide medac
EMA/481781/2010
Page 23/23
