30 May 2013 
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Leflunomide medac  
International non-proprietary name: leflunomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001227/X/0012/G 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Active Substance .............................................................................................. 7 
2.2.2. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................. 7 
2.2.3. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................. 10 
2.2.4. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................ 10 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 10 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 10 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 11 
2.3.3. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects ............................................... 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 11 
2.4.1. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 13 
2.4.2. Pharmacodynamics ......................................................................................... 13 
2.4.3. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................ 13 
2.4.4. Post Marketing Experience ............................................................................... 13 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ........................................................................... 13 
2.4.6. Conclusion on clinical aspects ........................................................................... 15 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance system .................................................................................. 15 
2.6. Risk Management Plan ....................................................................................... 15 
2.7. User consultation ............................................................................................... 24 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 24 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 25 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 2/26 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
ALAT 
DMARD  
EMA 
EURD 
HPLC    
HDPE 
Ph. Eur  
PK 
PP 
PSUR 
RA 
RH 
SPC 
ULN 
UV 
ALanine AminoTransferase 
Disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union reference dates 
High performance liquid chromatography 
High density polyethylene 
Pharmacopoea Europaea 
Pharmkokinetic 
Polypropylene 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Relative Humidity 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Upper Limit of Normal 
UltraViolet 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 3/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Medac  submitted  on  5  October  2012  an  application  for  an  extension  of  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Leflunomide  medac  15  mg,  film-coated 
tablets,  through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 19 (1) and Annex I (point 2 indent  
c) of the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008.  
Medac  is  already  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  Leflunomide  medac  10  mg  and  20  mg 
film-coated tablets (EU/H/C/10/637/001-009). Leflunomide medac 15 mg film-coated tablets only differ 
in strength from the reference medicinal product (Arava - EU/1/99/118/001-10). 
Leflunomide medac is used in the following indication: 
•  Active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD). 
Recent or concurrent treatment with hepatotoxic or haematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) may 
result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions; therefore, the initiation of leflunomide treatment 
has to be carefully considered regarding these benefit/risk aspects. 
Moreover, switching from leflunomide to another DMARD without following the washout procedure (see 
section 4.4) may also increase the risk of serious adverse reactions even for a long time after the 
switching. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. In 
addition, the applicant submitted on 5 October 2012 the following variation(s) to the terms of the 
Marketing Authorisation, which are grouped with the extension of the marketing authorisation pursuant 
to Article 7.2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
Annex(es) 
affected 
C.I.z 
C.I.z - Changes (Safety/Efficacy) of Human and 
IAin 
n/a 
Veterinary Medicinal Products - Other variation 
B.II.f.1.b.1 
B.II.f.1.b.1 - Stability of FP - Extension of the shelf life of 
IB 
I 
the finished product - As packaged for sale (supported 
by real time data) 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 4/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
Leflunomide medac has been granted a Marketing Authorisation in European Union since 27 July 2010. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 5/26 
 
  
  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: Martina Weise 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 5 October 2012. 
The procedure started on 24 October 2012.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 January 2013.  
The PRAC Rapporteur's RMP Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 18 January 
2013.  
•  During the meeting on 21 February 2013, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 21 
February 2013. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 27 March 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 30 May 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting an extension of a 
Marketing Authorisation for Leflunomide medac.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Leflunomide medac is a an immunomodulator with anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic activity 
mediated primarily through inhibition of dihyroorotate dehydrogenase, an enzyme required for the de 
novo production of pyrimidine. Leflunomide is a prodrug which is rapidly metabolized to its active 
metabolite which possesses symptom-, inflammation- and structure-modifying activities in patients with 
active rheumatoid arthritis. It has been approved as a DMARD (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug) 
for use in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the European Union.  
Leflunomide  medac  was  authorised  as  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  leflunomide  as  active 
substance.  Two  strengths  have  been  already  approved;  10  mg  and  20  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The 
additional extension application is made for Leflunomide medac 15 mg film-coated tablets. Leflunomide 
medac 15 mg film-coated tablets only differ in strength from the reference medicinal product. This new 
strength has been developed to facilitate the individual dosing of leflunomide to the patients using the 
already approved dosing regimen for maintenance therapy. 
This application for an extension of Marketing Authorisation was grouped with a type IAIN notification and 
a type IB variation in order to: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 6/26 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
• 
extend the shelf life of 10 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets from 30 months to 36 months (variation 
B.II.f.1.b.1) 
replace the Medac's DDPS with a summary of the Medac’s PhV system (variation C.I.z) 
Furthermore, some minor editorial changes in Section 4.4 of SmPC, in the RMP and in Module 
3.2.P.2.have been introduced. Furthermore, the MAH took this occasion to update the Product 
Information to be in line with the QRD Template version 8.3. Both text implementations are considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
In  term  of  clinical  pharmacokinetic  data  to  support  this  application,  based  on  the  data  from  the 
single-dose  bioequivalence  study  with  the  20-mg  formulation  and  using  the  requirements  of  the 
applicable “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence”, a biowaiver for 
the additional 15-mg strength was applied. 
The active substance and the excipients used in the manufacture of the new strength are identical to 
those used in the manufacture of the currently approved strengths. 
Concerning the chemical-pharmaceutical information reference is made, in several sections, to the 
information already provided for the already authorised strengths. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
The medicinal product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 15 mg of leflunomide as the active 
substance. The excipients are listed in the SmPC, section 6.1. The film-coated tablets are packed in high 
density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a screw cap including an integrated desiccant container (white 
silica gel). 
2.2.1.  Active Substance 
The active substance used in the 15 mg film-coated tablets, leflunomide, is the same active substance as 
the one approved for the currently authorised strengths (10 mg and 20 mg). 
2.2.2.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop an additional strength (15 mg) of 
immediate-release film-coated tablets. This new strength was developed to facilitate the individual 
dosing of leflunomide to patients. This new strength is not authorised for the reference medicinal product 
Arava owned by Sanofi-Aventis. 
In comparison to leflunomide 10 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets the qualitative and quantitative 
composition of Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 15 mg remains unchanged and the excipients 
have the same functions. To guarantee a safe differentiation between the different leflunomide dosage 
strengths the dimension (i.e. the diameter) of the 15 mg strength has been adjusted and the leflunomide 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 7/26 
 
  
  
 
15 mg film-coated tablets have an embossing with the number "15". Therefore, the different dosage 
strengths differ not only in their diameter but also in their appearance. 
During the development of the additional strength a study has been initiated in order to evaluate the 
physical properties but also the overall in-vitro dissolution characteristics of leflunomide 15 mg 
film-coated tablets.  
The 15 mg film-coated tablets are manufactured using the same process as the 10 mg and 20 mg 
film-coated tablets. In addition the qualitative composition of the new strength is the same and it is 
quantitatively proportional. In the assessed media all tested strengths (10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg) show 
similar dissolution profiles. Furthermore, a comparative dissolution study on leflunomide 15 mg versus 
20 mg film-coated tablets, in compliance with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) confirmed the similarity of drug release characteristics 
between the new 15 mg and the 20 mg strengths.  
For manufacturing and control of leflunomide film-coated tablets 15 mg the same procedures and/or 
analytical methods are applied as already developed, validated and approved for Leflunomide medac 10 
mg and 20 mg. This approach ensures the required consistency in leflunomide film-coated tablets quality 
within all dosage strengths as well. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
Manufacture of the product 
Leflunomide medac film-coated tablets 15 mg is manufactured by using a conventional process. The 
manufacturing process consists of six main steps: pre-mixing, wet granulation, drying, tableting, 
film-coating and packaging. A detailed manufacturing description and flow scheme have been provided. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process and it has been demonstrated that it is able to consistently produce a finished 
product of the intended quality. The in-process controls are adequate for this pharmaceutical form.  
The  batch  analysis  data  on  three  batches  show  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according  to  the  agreed  finished  product  specifications,  which  are  suitable  for  control  of  this  oral 
preparation. 
Product specification 
The  finished  product  release  and  shelf-life  specifications  include  tests  for  description  (visual), 
identification  (HPLC,  UV),  resistance  to  crushing  (Ph. Eur.),  water  content  (Karl  Fischer  method), 
dissolution (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC) and related substances (HPLC), content uniformity (Ph. Eur.) and 
microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). The finished product specifications are standard for film-coated tablets. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 8/26 
 
  
  
 
 
All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. Appropriate data 
have  been  presented  to  justify  the  specifications.  Impurities  and  degradation  products  have  been 
evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety.  
Batch analysis results on two commercial batches confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and 
indicate that the process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been carried out under long term (25°C/60% RH), intermediate (30°C/65% RH) 
and accelerated (40°C/75% RH) conditions according to the ICH requirements for two production-scale 
batches and two smaller-scale batches for Leflunomide medac 10 mg and 20 mg since the MAH applied 
for an extension of the shelf-life of the finished product from 30 months to 36 months. The batches were 
packaged  as  proposed  for  marketing  (in  white,  round  HDPE  bottles  with  PP  closure  and  mounted 
desiccant insert). The parameters tested and analytical methods used are identical to those used for the 
release specifications.  
Furthermore, a photostability study was also performed on one batch of the 10 mg film-coated tablets in 
accordance with ICH Q1B. The film-coated tablets were exposed to light (i) without packaging, (ii) in 
primary  packaging,  and  (iii)  in  secondary  packaging  applying  testing  conditions  according  to 
CPMP/ICH/279/95. After irradiation the Leflunomide medac 10 mg film-coated tablets directly exposed to 
(UV)  light  show  no  changes  in  their  physical  or  chemical  properties.  The  data  demonstrates  that  the 
film-coated tablets are not sensitive to light.  
Based on available stability data for 10 mg and 20 mg, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as 
stated in the SmPC were accepted. 
As already mentioned the formulations of Leflunomide medac 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg are proportional. 
Furthermore, all the strengths are stored in the identical type of packaging. A bracketing approach was 
selected for stability testing of the additional strength (15 mg). The CHMP agreed with the bracketing 
approach since the stability of Leflunomide medac 15 mg is sufficiently represented by the stability data 
of the "extremes" (i.e. 10 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets). The justification for the bracketing 
approach is in compliance with the Note for Guidance on Bracketing and Matrixing Design for Stability 
Testing of Drug Substances and Drug Products (CPMP/ICH/4104/00). 
An in-use study has been conducted for 10 mg and 20 mg to establish a shelf-life for Leflunomide medac 
after the first opening of the container. Based on the study results a shelf-life of at least 100 days for the 
10 mg strength and a shelf life of at least 200 days for 20 mg dosage after first opening of container was 
accepted by the CHMP. 
Due to the bracketing design used for Leflunomide medac 15 mg, it is considered that the in-use results 
generated on Leflunomide medac 10 mg are representative for the 15 mg dosage strength as well. 
Therefore, a shelf life of at least 100 days is justified for Leflunomide medac 15 mg after first opening of 
the container. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions for the 10 and 20 mg are 
also acceptable for the new strength. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 9/26 
 
  
  
 
2.2.3.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Data on development, manufacture and control of this new strength of 15 mg film-coated tablets has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The new strength was developed to facilitate the individual 
dosing of leflunomide to the patients. This new strength is not authorised for the reference medicinal 
product Arava owned by Sanofi-Aventis. The qualitative and quantitative composition of the new strength 
is proportional to the strengths already authorised (10 mg and 20 mg). There is no novel excipient used 
in the formulation. All excipients are compendial, i.e. controlled to the requirements of the current 
Ph. Eur. monographs. Based on the stability data the extension of the shelf-life of the authorised 10 mg 
and 20 mg film-coated tablets from 30 months to 36 months and the minor changes in Module 3.2.P.2. 
are accepted by the CHMP. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the medicinal 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform clinical performance. 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Based  on  the  data  provided,  the  quality  of  this  medicinal  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable. 
Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product have 
been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.4.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
Not applicable 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Leflunomide medac was authorised as a generic medicinal product containing leflunomide as active 
substance.  
Leflunomide is an immunomodulator with anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic activity mediated 
primarily through inhibition of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, an enzyme required for the de novo 
production of pyrimidine. Leflunomide is a prodrug which is rapidly metabolized to its active metabolite 
which possesses symptom-, inflammation- and structure-modifying activities in patients with active 
rheumatoid arthritis. It has been approved as a DMARD (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug) for use 
in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the European Union. 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference medicinal product Arava. The impurity 
profile was considered acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 10/26 
 
  
  
The extension application for Leflunomide Medac 15 mg film-coated tablets concerns a new strength of 
15 mg that lies within the dose-range of the already approved leflunomide formulations (10 mg and 20 
mg film-coated tablets). Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the introduction 
of Leflunomide Medac 15 mg film-coated tablets is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase 
in the combined sales volumes for all leflunomide-containing products and the exposure of the 
environment to the active substance. Thus, the environmental risk is expected to be similar and not 
increased. The CHMP agrees with the above. 
2.3.3.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
No new nonclinical data were submitted for this application of a new strength of leflunomide film-coated 
tablets. This is considered acceptable given the existing knowledge about the substance as well as the 
fact that the new strength lies within the dose-range of the already approved leflunomide strengths. The 
proposed indication and posology remain unchanged. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Leflunomide, a prodrug which is rapidly metabolized to its active metabolite A77 1726, possesses 
symptom-, inflammation- and structure-modifying activities in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. 
It has been approved as a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD), owing to its symptom-, 
inflammation- and structure-modifying activities for use in patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the 
European Union. Leflunomide-containing products are available as 10 mg, 20 mg and 100 mg film-coated 
tablets. 
The present application concerns the addition of a new strength for Leflunomide Medac. This new 
strength of 15 mg (film-coated tablets) is within the approved range of the available strengths for this 
medicinal product. The therapeutic indication and the posology remain unchanged. The objective of this 
development is to facilitate the individual dosing of leflunomide in accordance with the approved SmPC 
which states that the recommended maintenance dose is leflunomide 10 mg to 20 mg once daily 
depending on the severity (activity) of the disease. 
The application is based on bioequivalence considerations. Relevant for the assessment is therefore the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence in its current version (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Exemption 
The initially MAA for Leflunomide Medac concerned two dosages, 10 and 20mg, respectively. To support 
this application a single-dose bioequivalence study was provided demonstrating bioavailability of the 20 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 11/26 
 
  
  
mg film-coated tablets with the reference medicinal product (study 80427). For the 10 mg formulation a 
waiver for additional strengths according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence was 
accepted. The results of study 80427 are briefly described underneath (Table 1). 
Table 1. Results of study 80427, M1 (A771726) true values (geometric means + SD), ratios of 
least-square means and acceptance ranges for 90% confidence intervals for Cmax and AUC0-168h (80% 
- 125%) 
Parameter 
Geometric means + SD  
Ratios 
Test 
Reference 
Point Estimator 
90% Confidence 
Interval 
Cmax [ng/mL] 
Tmax [h] 
2053.27 
+299.88 
3.00 
+1.61 
2184.14 
+401.32 
3.04  
+1.62 
94.53% 
87.32 - 102.33 % 
n.d. 
n.d. 
AUC0-168h [ng.h/mL] 
210935.62  
+38386.43 
222653.33 
+41730.67 
94.85% 
86.72 - 103.74 % 
To support the present application for the additional 15 mg strength, a waiver in accordance with section 
4.1.6 of the “Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence” (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 (Rev 1)) was 
applied.  
The following requirements are fulfilled: 
a)  the  pharmaceutical  products  are  manufactured  by  the  same  manufacturing  process  as  referred 
previously in this report, 
b) the qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same, 
c) the composition of the strengths is quantitatively proportional, i.e. the ratio between the amount of 
each excipient to the amount of active substance is the same for all strengths (for immediate release 
products, coating components, capsule shell, colour agents and flavours are not required to follow this 
rule), 
d) appropriate in vitro dissolution data confirm the adequacy of waiving additional in vivo bioequivalence 
testing. The discriminatory power of the selected dissolution method has been already demonstrated 
during the development of the existing 10 mg / 20 mg dosages as reported and accepted during the initial 
MAA. The same dissolution conditions have been used for testing of the 15mg dosage. Three different 
buffers of pH 1.2, pH 4.5 and pH 6.8 were used. The f2 factor calculation confirms similarity of the 
dissolution profile for the new 15 mg formulation in comparison to the 20 mg formulation administered in 
the bioequivalence study 80427.  
Linear  pharmacokinetic  has  been  reported  for  leflunomide.  According  to  the  Guideline  on  the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence in such case the bioequivalence study should be conducted at the highest 
strength, i.e. leflunomide 20 mg. The conditions for a waiver for additional strengths, listed in section 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 12/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.6  of  the  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioequivalence,  are  hence  considered  fulfilled  and  the 
bioequivalence study 80427 with leflunomide 20 mg film-coated tablet is deemed applicable for the new 
15 mg dosage. 
2.4.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
A self-standing PK characterisation (single dose fasted) was undertaken for the 20 mg dosage (Study 
80427) and bioequivalence was adequately demonstrated. For the new 15-mg strength a waiver  has 
been applied as outlined above and no further study has been provided. This is considered acceptable.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The current application concerns an additional strength of leflunomide immediate release tablets (15mg). 
A self-standing PK characterisation (single dose fasted) was undertaken for the 20 mg dosage (Study 
80427). Leflunomide tablets are an immediate-release formulation for which a single-dose 
bioequivalence study is adequate to document the equivalence in terms of PK. The pharmacokinetic 
parameters of A771726 (the active metabolite of leflunomide) were linear over the dose range of 5 to 25 
mg.  
Compared with the 20mg dosage, the 15mg tablets are qualitatively identical and quantitatively fully 
dose-proportional. Extrapolation of in-vivo data obtained for the 20 mg strength to the lower dose 
strength 15mg is supported by in-vitro dissolution data. In conclusion, the results of study 80427 with the 
20 mg formulation can be extrapolated to the 15 mg strength as the conditions in the Guideline on the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6 are fulfilled. 
2.4.4.  Post Marketing Experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The dosage 15mg of Leflunomide Medac has not been authorised 
in any country 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Leflunomide Medac 10 mg and 20 mg is approved for treatment of “active rheumatoid arthritis as a 
"disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD)” and the same indication is requested for the 15mg 
dosage. The current posology in rheumatoid arthritis is as follows: “Leflunomide therapy is usually 
started with a loading dose of 100 mg once daily for 3 days. Omission of the loading dose may decrease 
the risk of adverse events (see section 5.1). The recommended maintenance dose is leflunomide 10 mg 
to 20 mg once daily depending on the severity (activity) of the disease”. No changes in the posology for 
the new 15mg dosage are proposed by the applicant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 13/26 
 
  
  
The CHMP noted that no efficacy or safety studies have been conducted with 15mg/day and the applicant 
was requested by the CHMP to further justify the favourable benefit-risk relationship of the 15 mg dose 
strength taking into account the dose responses curves for both efficacy and safety. 
Clinical trials established the efficacy of the reference medicinal product using posology as currently 
described in Section 4.2 of the SmPC. A phase dose-finding study (Mladenovic V et al. 19951) compared 
3 doses of leflunomide (5mg/day, 10mg/day and 25mg/day) to placebo. Significant superiority of 
10mg/day and 25mg/day of leflunomide over placebo was demonstrated for efficacy, while adverse drug 
reactions occurred at higher incidence in the 25mg/day group than in the 10mg/day group. Based on 
these findings, the optimum leflunomide dose was estimated at between 10 and 25mg/day. Population 
pharmacokinetic analysis of correlation between plasma drug concentration and efficacy has led to the 
conclusion that the optimum dose of leflunomide is 20mg/day. Thus, in all phase III studies for the 
reference medicinal product a maintenance dose of 20mg leflunomide have been tested. No dose 
adjustment was foreseen in these studies.  
In a further study (Poór et al. 20042) comparing the efficacy and safety profile of 10mg and 20mg 
leflunomide the improvements in primary and secondary endpoints for the 20mg dosage were not 
considered to be clinically relevant. In contrast to that, the safety results favoured the 10mg daily 
maintenance dose. 
Results of studies outside the setting of RCTs showed high rates of dropouts due to safety reasons (e.g. 
29% of patients under 20mg Leflunomide treatment in a Dutch observational study published by van 
Roon et al. 20043) suggesting the need for optimization of the leflunomide treatment schedule. In this 
respect, retrospective pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamic analysis of the original dose finding data 
suggest that leflunomide should be dosed at a daily rate above 11 mg daily to obtain near maximum 
probability of clinical success. The relationship between Css and clinical effect showed further that to 
achieve the maximum probability of clinical success in 95% of patients treated with leflunomide dose rate 
would have to be adjusted to achieve a median A77 1726 plasma concentration of 30 mg/l, requiring a 
daily dose of 16 mg leflunomide. 
The SmPC allows a dose adjustment between 10 mg and 20 mg, depending on the severity of the 
disease. A “step up” approach, increasing leflunomide daily dose from 10 mg to 15 mg based on activity 
of disease, can be evaluated by periodically reassessing for evidence of disease activity measured by e.g. 
swollen joints and CRP. It is acknowledged that no clinical studies were performed with the 15 mg tablet 
and thus, it is unclear whether the “step down” approach, decreasing leflunomide daily dose from 20mg 
to 15mg will be sufficient in case of ALT (SGPT) elevations. Therefore, the Innovator’s recommendation  
to down-titrate to the 10 mg (the lowest dose available) strength (SmPC section 4.4: […] For ALT (SGPT) 
elevations between 2- and 3-fold the upper limit of normal, dose reduction from 20 mg to 10 mg may be 
considered and monitoring must be performed weekly. […]) should be maintained and slightly changed 
for the new strength as follow (added text, deleted text): “For ALT (SGPT) elevations between 2- and 
3-fold the upper limit of normal, dose reduction from 20 mg to 10 mg may be considered and monitoring 
must be performed weekly.”  During the procedure the MAH has changed Section 4.4 of the SmPC 
accordingly. 
1 Mladenovic et al, 1995, Arthritis Rheum 38(11): 1595-603   
2 Poor et al, 2004, Rheumatology 43(6): 744-9 
3 Van Roon et al, 2004, Br J Clin Pharmacol 57(6): 790–797 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 14/26 
 
  
  
                                                
Summarized, the new intermediate 15 mg strength is expected to support individual patient 
management by adjusting the appropriate dose regimen. Sufficient guidance is provided in the SmPC to 
support this treatment approach in clinical practice. 
2.4.6.  Conclusion on clinical aspects 
A bioequivalence study was performed with the 20-mg formulation and a waiver for the additional 15-mg 
strength is adequately justified in line with the requirements of the applicable guidance. Moreover, the 
applicant has further justified the favourable benefit-risk relationship of the new 15 mg dose strength and 
from a clinical perspective, the new 15-mg strength is considered to facilitate the patient management by 
allowing for an adjustment of the recommended maintenance dose depending on the severity (activity) 
of the disease. The approved SmPC wording for the leflunomide Medac 15 mg reflects appropriately this 
guidance. The CHMP concludes that the clinical aspects of 15 mg leflunomide in the claimed indication are 
positive and the approval of the new strength is acceptable. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance system 
The MAH has submitted a signed Summary of the MAH's Pharmacovigilance System. The CHMP 
considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the legislative 
requirements.    
2.6.  Risk Management Plan 
For this line extension for the marketing authorisation of the 15 mg dose strength of Leflunomide Medac 
an updated risk management plan has been submitted (version 07, dated 19.02.2013)  
The safety concerns as listed in the current risk management plan for Leflunomide Medac 10 mg, 15 and 
20 mg are summarized in the following table. 
Summary of ongoing safety concerns: 
PRAC Advice 
The PRAC considered that the submitted RMP for Leflunomide Medac was acceptable.  
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
Safety concerns 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 15/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Safety concern 
Planned action 
Important potential risks 
  Hepatic reactions 
  Blood cytopenia 
  Severe skin reactions 
  Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Interstitial lung desease 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
  Teratogenicity 
  Hypertension 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Interactions with other DMARs 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
(methotrexate) 
Important potential risks 
  Male mediated fetal toxicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Lymphoproliferative disorders 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
  Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
Page 16/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Renal failure 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
  Peripheral neuropathy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Important missing information 
  Use in children 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
  Concomidant use of biologic DMARDs 
Routine pharmacovigilance, special attention in PSUR 
•  Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
activities (routine and 
(routine and additional) 
additional) 
Important identified risks 
Labeling 
Hepatic reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
Special attention in PSUR 
regard to patients with impairment of liver 
function or with severe hypoproteinemia. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that rare 
cases of severe liver injury, including cases with 
fatal outcome, have been reported during 
treatment with leflunomide and stating that ALT 
must be checked before and during treatment, 
providing guidance as regards the frequency of 
testing during treatment and patient 
management in the event of increased 
transaminases. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC with regard to 
transaminase elevation, hepatitis, jaundice and 
severe liver injury including hepatic failure as 
Undesirable effect. 
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] of SPC 
concerning the increased risk of serious adverse 
reactions with recent or concurrent use of 
hepatotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate). 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 17/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood cytopenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
Communication and Educational Program to 
emphasize to prescribers the importance of 
monitoring liver function. 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having significantly impaired 
bone marrow function or significant anemia, 
leukocytopenia or thrombocytopenia due to 
causes other than rheumatoid arthritis. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that a 
complete blood cell count, including differential 
white blood cell count and platelets, must be 
performed before and during treatment and 
recommending that treatment with leflunomide 
be discontinued in the event of severe 
hematologic reactions, including pancytopenia, 
with a washout procedure to be administered 
(details provided). 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC on 
Undesirable effects. 
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] of SPC 
concerning the increased risk of serious adverse 
reactions with recent or concurrent use of 
hematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate). 
(Restricted distribution through legal status of 
prescription). 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis (Section 4.2 of SPC). 
Severe skin reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having a hypersensitivity to the 
active substance (especially previous 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, erythema multiforme) or to any of the 
excipients. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that very 
rare cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic 
epidermal necrolysis have been reported during 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 18/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
treatment with leflunomide and recommending 
that treatment with leflunomide be discontinued 
in the event of severe skin and/or mucosal 
reactions and washout procedure to be 
administered (details provided). 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC on 
Undesirable effects.Restricted distribution 
with initiation and supervision of treatment by a 
specialist experienced in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis (Section 4.2 of SPC). 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to patients having severe infections. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that 
medications with immunosuppressive properties, 
like leflunomide, can cause patients to be more 
susceptible to infections, including opportunistic 
infections, recommending that treatment with 
leflunomide be discontinued in the event of 
severe uncontrolled infections, and that a 
washout procedure be administered in the event 
that severe, uncontrolled infections occur. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC about this risk 
as an Undesirable effect.  
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis (Section 4.2 of SPC). 
Communication and Educational Program to 
emphasize to prescribers the 
immune-suppressive properties of leflunomide, 
the risk of infections including opportunistic 
infections and the contraindication for use in 
immuno-compromised patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 19/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Interstitial lung disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special attention in PSUR 
Teratogenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special attention in PSUR 
Labeling 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that ILD 
has been reported during treatment with 
leflunomide, that it is a potentially fatal disorder, 
and that pulmonary symptoms, such as cough 
and dyspnea, may be a reason for discontinuing 
treatment. Advice on administration of a washout 
procedure in the event of discontinuation. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC about this 
risk as an Undesirable effect. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Labeling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC with 
regard to pregnant women, or women of 
child-bearing potential who are not using reliable 
contraception during treatment with leflunomide. 
Recommendations in [Section 4.6] of the SPC 
with regard to the use of effective contraception 
during and up to 2 years after treatment, and on 
the need to monitor menstrual status in women of 
childbearing potential. Instructions on the 
washout procedure or waiting period to be 
applied for women who wish to become pregnant 
are also provided. Reference is made to the 
results of the OTIS study in [Section 4.6] of the 
SPC. 
Communication and Educational Program to 
communicate the risk of teratogenicity and to 
emphasize the recommendation to patients to 
avoid pregnancy until leflunomide levels are at an 
appropriate level. 
Ad hoc information service to provide patients 
and prescribers with information on the testing of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 20/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
plasma leflunomide levels after the waiting 
period. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Hypertension 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that blood 
pressure must be checked before the start of 
treatment with leflunomide and periodically 
thereafter.  
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC about this 
risk as an undesirable effect. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Interaction with other 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
DMARDs (methotrexate) 
Special attention in PSUR 
Indication in [Section 4.1] of SPC contains a 
reminder about the risk of initiating leflunomide 
in the event of recent or concurrent treatment 
with other hepatotoxic or hematotoxic DMARDs. 
A washout procedure is recomm-ended when 
switching from leflunomide to another DMARD. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that 
concomitant administration of hepatotoxic or 
hematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) is not 
advisable. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Communication and educational activities to 
ensure the safe and effective use of leflunomide 
in the appropriate patient population, particularly 
with regard to combination with other DMARDs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 21/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Male-mediated fetal 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
toxicity 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that male 
patients should be aware of the possibility of 
male-mediated fetal toxicity and recommending 
that reliable contraception be used during 
treatment with leflunomide. Instructions on the 
washout procedure and waiting period to be 
applied for men who wish to father a child are also 
provided. 
Information in [Section 4.8] referring to 
decreases in sperm concentration, total sperm 
count and rapid progressive motility as 
Undesirable effects. 
For the patient, [Section 2 of the Package Leaflet] 
provides counseling for male patients who wish to 
father a child. 
Communication and Educational Program to 
communicate the risk of male-mediated 
fetotoxicity and to emphasize washout procedure 
and waiting period to be applied for men who wish 
to father a child. 
Ad hoc information service to provide patients 
and prescribers with information on the testing of 
plasma leflunomide levels after the waiting 
period. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Lymphoproliferative 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
disorders 
Special attention in PSUR 
Reference in [Section 4.8] of the SPC to the fact 
that the risk of malignancy, particularly 
lymphoproliferative disorders, is increased with 
the use of some immunosuppressive agents. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 22/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Progressive multifocal 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating that rare 
leukoencephalopathy 
Special attention in PSUR 
cases of Progressive Multifocal 
Renal failure 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special attention in PSUR 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported 
in patients receiving leflunomide among other 
immunosuppressants. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Section 4.3 of SPC, lists renal failure as a 
contra-indication for treatment with leflunomide. 
 [Section 4.8] of SPC lists renal failure as an 
undesirable effect with an unknown frequency. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Section 4.1 of the SmPC reminds of the risk of 
serious adverse reactions (such as peripheral 
neuropathy) to immunsuppressants including 
leflunomide. 
[Section 4.8] of SPC lists peripheral neuropathy 
as an undesirable effect with an unknown 
frequency. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Important missing information 
Use in children 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labeling 
Reference in [Section 4.2] of the SPC to the fact 
that leflunomide is not recommended for use in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 23/26 
 
  
  
 
 
patients below 18 years of age. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Interaction with biological 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
There is no specific recommendation about the 
DMARDs 
Special attention in PSUR 
concomitant use of leflunomide with biologic 
DMARDs in the SPC, however both types of 
treatment have their prescription restricted to 
specialists. 
Restricted distribution with initiation and 
supervision of treatment by a specialist 
experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis ([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
  The CHMP endorsed this advice. 
2.7.  User consultation 
The initial application for Leflunomide medac 10 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets and the additional 
extension application for the intermediate 15 mg strength concern an abridged application, which 
cross-refers to the reference medicinal product Arava film-coated tablets owned by Sanofi-Aventis. 
Reference is made to the user testing of the reference medicinal product (23/04/2008 
Arava-H-C-235-IA-40) and consequently a bridging report has been provided. The CHMP concluded that 
proposed Package Leaflet of Leflunomide medac  15 mg film-coated tablets is compliant with article 59(3) 
of Council Directive 2001/83EC (Consultation with Target Patient Groups). 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
The application concerns the addition of a new strength (15 mg) within the already approved range (10 
mg and 20 mg). From a clinical perspective this 15 mg strength will facilitate patient management in line 
with the posology in the approved SmPC where it is stated that the recommended maintenance dose is 
leflunomide 10 mg to 20 mg once daily depending on the severity (activity) of the disease. 
Bioequivalence of the medicinal product with the reference medicinal product has previously been shown 
for the 20 mg dosage in study 80427. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. The 
present application is based on a justification for the extrapolation of the bioequivalence study results to 
the 15 mg strength, which is accepted. A positive benefit/risk balance was concluded by the CHMP for this 
new strength. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 24/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Together with the Line extension application for the Leflunomide Medac 15 mg, the MAH has submitted 
other two variations regarding extension of shelf life and a submitted signed summary of the MAH’s 
Pharmacovigilance System which have been assessed and considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
4.  Recommendation  
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
The SmPC is based on the reference medicinal product SmPC (Arava) which was currently actualised 
(EMEA/H/C/235/II/50). Section 4.4 of the SmPC has been changed as follow (added text, deleted text): 
“For ALT (SGPT) elevations between 2- and 3-fold the upper limit of normal, dose reduction from 20 mg 
to 10 mg may be considered and monitoring must be performed weekly.”  The current SmPC is 
considered acceptable from the clinical and non-clinical point of view.  
Package Leaflet (PL) 
The PL is based on the reference medicinal product PL which was currently actualised 
(EMEA/H/C/235/II/50). The submitted PL is considered acceptable from the clinical and non-clinical point 
of view.  
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the risk-benefit balance of Leflunomide medac  in the approved indication treatment of adult patients 
with active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" 
(DMARD) is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the extension marketing 
authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list)  provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 25/26 
 
  
  
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same time. 
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Leflunomide medac are provided with a physician educational pack containing the 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
Physician Leaflet 
following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Physician Leaflet should contain the following key messages: 
That there is a risk of severe liver injury and so regular measurement of ALT (SGPT) levels to 
monitor liver function is important. The information provided in the Physician Leaflet should 
provide information on dose reduction, discontinuation and wash out procedures. 
The identified risk of synergistic hepato- or haematotoxicity associated with combination therapy 
with another Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drug (e.g. methotrexate). 
That there is a risk of teratogenicity and so pregnancy must be avoided until leflunomide plasma 
levels are at an appropriate level. Physicians and patients should be made aware that there is an ad 
hoc advisory service available to provide information on leflunomide plasma level laboratory 
testing. 
The risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and the contraindication for use in 
immuno-compromised patients. 
The need to counsel patients on important risks associated with leflunomide therapy and 
appropriate precautions when using the medicine. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/478482/2013 
Page 26/26 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
