EMA/438073/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002035 
EPAR summary for the public 
Leflunomide ratiopharm 
leflunomide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Leflunomide ratiopharm. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Leflunomide ratiopharm. 
What is Leflunomide ratiopharm? 
Leflunomide ratiopharm is a medicine that contains the active substance leflunomide. It is available as 
white round tablets (10 and 20 mg).  
Leflunomide ratiopharm is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Leflunomide ratiopharm is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Arava. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Leflunomide ratiopharm used for? 
Leflunomide ratiopharm is used to treat adults with active rheumatoid arthritis (an immune system 
disease causing inflammation of the joints) or active psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly 
patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Leflunomide ratiopharm used? 
Leflunomide ratiopharm treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist who has experience 
in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. The doctor should carry out blood tests 
to check the patient’s liver, white blood cell counts and platelet counts before prescribing Leflunomide 
ratiopharm, and regularly during treatment. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Leflunomide ratiopharm treatment starts with a ‘loading dose’ of 100 mg once a day for three days, 
followed by a maintenance dose. The recommended maintenance dose is 10 to 20 mg once a day in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 mg once a day in patients with psoriatic arthritis. The 
medicine usually starts to have an effect after four to six weeks. Its effect may improve further for up 
to six months. 
How does Leflunomide ratiopharm work? 
The active substance in Leflunomide ratiopharm, leflunomide, is an immunosuppressant. It reduces 
inflammation by reducing the production of immune cells called ‘lymphocytes’, which are responsible 
for inflammation. Leflunomide does this by blocking an enzyme called ‘dihydroorotate dehydrogenase’, 
which is necessary for the lymphocytes to multiply. With fewer lymphocytes, there is less 
inflammation, helping to control the symptoms of arthritis. 
How has Leflunomide ratiopharm been studied? 
The applicant presented data on experimental models from the scientific literature. 
Because Leflunomide ratiopharm is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Arava. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Leflunomide ratiopharm? 
Because Leflunomide ratiopharm is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefit and risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Leflunomide ratiopharm been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Leflunomide ratiopharm has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Arava. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was 
that, as for Arava, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Leflunomide ratiopharm be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Leflunomide ratiopharm 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Leflunomide ratiopharm on 29 November 2010.  
The full EPAR for Leflunomide ratiopharm can be searched for on the Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more 
information about treatment with Leflunomide ratiopharm, read the package leaflet (also part of the 
EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
Leflunomide ratiopharm  
EMA/438073/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
