EMA/895559/2018 
EMEA/H/C/001129 
Leflunomide Zentiva1 (leflunomide) 
An overview of Leflunomide Zentiva and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Leflunomide Zentiva and what is it used for? 
Leflunomide Zentiva is a medicine used to treat adults with active rheumatoid arthritis (an immune 
system disease causing inflammation of the joints) or active psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, 
scaly patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints). The medicine contains the active substance 
leflunomide.  
How is Leflunomide Zentiva used? 
Leflunomide Zentiva is available as tablets (10 mg, 20 mg and 100 mg). It can only be obtained with a 
prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist who has experience in the 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. The doctor should carry out blood tests to 
check the patient’s liver, white blood cell counts and platelet counts before prescribing Leflunomide 
Zentiva, and regularly during treatment. 
Leflunomide Zentiva treatment usually starts with a ‘loading dose’ of 100 mg once a day for 3 days, 
followed by a maintenance dose. The recommended maintenance dose is 10 to 20 mg once a day in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 20 mg once a day in patients with psoriatic arthritis. The 
medicine usually starts to have an effect after 4 to 6 weeks. Its effect may improve further for up to 6 
months.  
For more information about using Leflunomide Zentiva, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Leflunomide Zentiva work? 
The active substance in Leflunomide Zentiva, leflunomide, is an immunosuppressant. It reduces 
inflammation by reducing the production of immune cells called ‘lymphocytes’, which are responsible 
for inflammation. Leflunomide does this by blocking an enzyme called ‘dihydroorotate dehydrogenase’, 
which is necessary for the lymphocytes to multiply. With fewer lymphocytes, there is less 
inflammation, helping to control the symptoms of arthritis. 
1 Previously known as Leflunomide Winthrop. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
What benefits of Leflunomide Zentiva have been shown in the studies? 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
In rheumatoid arthritis, Leflunomide Zentiva has been studied in 4 main studies involving over 2,000 
patients, in which it was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment), or with methotrexate or 
sulphasalazine (other medicines used to treat rheumatoid arthritis). Two of the studies lasted 6 
months, and two lasted 1 year. The two longer studies were then extended, with patients remaining on 
the medicines for at least 1 more year.  
Results showed that Leflunomide Zentiva was more effective than placebo and as effective as 
sulphasalazine. Between 49 and 55% of the patients taking Leflunomide Zentiva responded to 
treatment, compared with 26 to 28% of those taking placebo, and 54% of those taking sulphasalazine. 
These results were maintained in the extension studies. Over the first year of treatment, Leflunomide 
Zentiva was as effective as methotrexate, but only when it was taken with folate (a type of vitamin B). 
Leflunomide Zentiva was not as effective as methotrexate in the extension study. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
In psoriatic arthritis, a study in 186 patients showed that Leflunomide Zentiva was more effective than 
placebo over 6 months: 59% of the patients taking Leflunomide Zentiva responded to treatment, 
compared with 30% of those taking placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Leflunomide Zentiva? 
The most common side effects with Leflunomide Zentiva (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), mild allergic reactions, increased creatine phosphokinase 
levels (a marker of muscle damage), paraesthesia (abnormal sensations like pins and needles), 
peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage in hands and feet),  headache, dizziness, mild increases in blood 
pressure, colitis (inflammation in the large bowel), diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, 
inflammation of the mouth such as mouth ulcers, abdominal (belly) pain, increased liver enzyme 
levels, hair loss, eczema, rash, pruritus (itching), dry skin, tenosynovitis (inflammation of the sheath 
surrounding the tendons), loss of appetite, weight loss and asthenia (weakness). For the full list of side 
effects with Leflunomide Zentiva, see the package leaflet. 
Leflunomide Zentiva must not be used in patients with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
liver disease; 
severe immunodeficiency states, such as acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); 
poor bone marrow function or low blood cell counts (red cells, white cells or platelets) caused by 
conditions other than rheumatoid or psoriatic arthritis; 
serious infections; 
•  moderate to severely impaired kidney function; 
• 
severe hypoproteinaemia (low blood protein levels). 
Leflunomide Zentiva must not be used in pregnant women, in women who can become pregnant and 
who are not using reliable contraception or during breast-feeding. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Leflunomide Zentiva0F (leflunomide)  
EMA/895559/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Doctors prescribing Leflunomide Zentiva need to be aware of the risk of liver problems associated with 
the medicine. They also need to take special care when switching a patient to Leflunomide Zentiva, or 
when switching a patient who is receiving Leflunomide Zentiva to another treatment. 
Why is Leflunomide Zentiva authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Leflunomide Zentiva’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Leflunomide Zentiva? 
The company that markets Leflunomide Zentiva will ensure that doctors who are expected to prescribe 
the medicine receive an information pack containing important information on the risks with 
Leflunomide Zentiva and the monitoring that should be carried out in patients.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Leflunomide Zentiva  have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Leflunomide Zentiva are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Leflunomide Zentiva are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Leflunomide Zentiva 
Leflunomide Zentiva received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 8 January 2010. 
This authorisation was based on the authorisation granted to Arava in 1999 (‘informed consent’). 
Further information on Leflunomide Zentiva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/leflunomide-zentiva.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2019.  
Leflunomide Zentiva0F (leflunomide)  
EMA/895559/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
