European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMA/761626/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
LEFLUNOMIDE WINTHROP 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
LEFLUNOMIDE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1129 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 6 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................... 7 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 13 
2/13 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Sanofi-Aventis  Deutschland  GmbH  submitted  on  4  February  2009  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Leflunomide  Winthrop, 
through  the  centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (2)  (a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 25 September 2008. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(c) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended – relating to informed consent from a marketing 
authorisation holder for an authorised medicinal product  
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Leflunomide Winthrop is indicated in adults for 
the  treatment  of  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  as  a  disease  modifying  antirheumatic  drug 
(DMARD) and for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA).”  
Information on Paediatric requirements: 
Not applicable 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The initial product Arava, has been given a Marketing Authorisation in: 
European  Union,  Iceland,  Norway,  Albania,  Algeria,  Argentina,  Aruba,  Australia,  Bahrain,  Belarus, 
Bolivia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Gabon,  Ghana,  Guatemala, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hong  Kong,  India,  Indonesia,  Israel,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Macedonia, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Republic of Moldova, 
Morocco,  Nepal,  Netherlands  Antilles,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palestinian 
Territories,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Senegal,  Serbia  and 
Montenegro,  Singapore,  South  Africa,  Sri  Lanka,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Taiwan, 
Thailand, Trinidad & Tobago, Tunisia, Ukraine, United States, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zimbabwe.  
Pending: Bangladesh, Botswana, Namibia, Saudi Arabia 
Withdrawn  (by  applicant  after  authorisation):  Aruba,  China,  Costa  Rica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Netherlands Antilles, Thailand, Trinidad & Tobago, Uruguay, 
Vietnam 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Pieter Neels 
3/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 4 February 2009. 
The procedure started on 22 February 2009. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  1  April 
2009. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 6 
April 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 July 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 September 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 September 2009, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues on 12 October 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  19-22  October  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Leflunomide  Winthrop  on  22  October  2009.  The 
applicant  provided  the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation on 22 October 2009. 
4/13 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
This application has been submitted as an informed consent application in accordance with Article 10c 
of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended.   
Therefore, consent from the MAH of the Arava application, which was submitted within the scope of 
Part B of the Annex of the Council Regulation (EEC) 2309/93, of the 22 July 1993, has been given 
allowing  access  to  Module  2  to  Module  5  of  the  initial  dossier  of  this  authorised  product  and  any 
subsequent  post-marketing  procedures  submitted,  assessed  and  approved.  The  application  for 
Leflunomide Winthrop consists only of Module 1 information. 
As  a  consequence,  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  Leflunomide  Winthrop  medicinal  product  are 
identical to the up-to-date quality, safety and efficacy profile of Arava. Information on the scientific 
discussions  can  be  found  in  the  Arava  CHMP  assessment  reports  and  in  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
The approved indication is: 
“Leflunomide is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
• 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD), 
active psoriatic arthritis. 
Recent or concurrent treatment with hepatotoxic or haematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) may 
result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions; therefore, the initiation of leflunomide 
treatment has to be carefully considered regarding these benefit/risk aspects. 
Moreover, switching from leflunomide to another DMARD without following the washout procedure 
(see section 4.4 of SPC) may also increase the risk of serious adverse reactions even for a long time 
after the switching.” 
The recommended dosage and method of administration are as follows: 
Posology 
Leflunomide therapy is started with a loading dose of 100 mg once daily for 3 days.  
• 
The recommended maintenance dose for rheumatoid arthritis is leflunomide 10 mg to 20 mg 
once daily. Patients may be started on leflunomide 10 mg or 20 mg depending on the severity 
(activity) of the disease. 
The recommended maintenance dose for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 20 mg once daily 
(see section 5.1 of the SPC). 
• 
The therapeutic effect usually starts after 4 to 6 weeks and may further improve up to 4 to 6 months. 
There is no dose adjustment recommended in patients with mild renal insufficiency. 
No dosage adjustment is required in patients above 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
Leflunomide Winthrop is not recommended for use in patients below 18 years since efficacy and 
safety in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) have not been established (see sections 5.1 and 5.2 of 
SPC). 
5/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is noted that treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialists experienced in the treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis and the following monitoring applies:. 
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or serum glutamopyruvate transferase (SGPT) and a complete blood 
cell count, including a differential white blood cell count and a platelet count, must be checked 
simultaneously and with the same frequency: 
• 
before initiation of leflunomide, 
• 
every two weeks during the first six months of treatment, and  
• 
every 8 weeks thereafter (see section 4.4 of SPC). 
Leflunomide is a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor that acts by reversibly blocking the enzyme dihydro-
orotate dehydrogenase, resulting in antiproliferative effects. 
The  clinical  benefits  of  Leflunomide  Winthrop  are  shown  by  response  to  treatment,  as  defined  by 
disease-specific  criteria  (American  College  of  Rheumatology  response  rates  for  rheumatoid  arthritis 
and the Psoriatic Arthritis treatment Response Criteria for psoriatic arthritis). In rheumatoid arthritis, 
leflunomide  was  shown  to  be  more  effective  than  placebo  and  as  effective  as  sulphasalazine.  Also, 
over one year treatment, leflunomide was as effective as methotrexate (+ folate).  In psoriatic arthritis, 
leflunomide was more effective than placebo, with 59% of the patients taking leflunomide responding 
to treatment, compared with 30% of those taking placebo.   
The most common side effects seen with leflunomide are leucopenia, mild allergic reactions, increased 
creatine phosphokinase levels, paraesthesia, headache, dizziness, mild increases in blood pressure, 
diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, inflammation of the mouth such as mouth ulcers, abdominal pain, 
increased liver enzyme levels, hair loss, eczema, rash, pruritus, dry skin, tenosynovitis, loss of 
appetite, weight loss and asthenia.   
2.2  Quality aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the Arava application, the quality data in support of 
the Leflunomide Winthrop application are identical to the up-to-date quality data of the Arava dossier 
which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing procedures). 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the Arava application, the non-clinical data in support 
of the Leflunomide Winthrop application are identical to the up-to-date non-clinical data of the Arava 
dossier, which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing procedures). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Applicant refers to the Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human use (June 2006, EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  In Chapter 8 it is stated: “There may be cases 
in  which  the  absence  of  an  ERA  could  be  justified  (e.g.  marketing  authorisation  applications  for 
generic medicinal products or type II variations). In these cases, the expert should provide a rationale 
for the absence of an ERA, taking into consideration a possible significant increase of environmental 
exposure to the drug substance”.  As article 10c of Directive 2001/83/EC applies to medicinal products 
possessing  the  same  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  terms  of  active  substances  and  the 
same pharmaceutical form, and in this application clinical particulars (indication and dosage) are the 
same  as  for  the  reference  product,  it  is  clear  that  the  introduction  of  Leflunomide  Winthrop  to  the 
market  will  only  lead  to  substitution  of  Arava  or  other  generic  leflunomide  containing  medicinal 
products.  A  possible  significant  increase  of  environmental  exposure  is  not  expected.  The 
environmental exposure is very low. 
6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  order  to  enhance  environmental  protection,  the  proposed  package  leaflet  includes  the  following 
general statement: “Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Ask your 
pharmacist how to dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the 
environment”.  
The absence of an ERA has been justified. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the Arava application, the clinical data in support of 
the Leflunomide Winthrop application are identical to the up-to-date clinical data of the Arava dossier, 
which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing procedures). 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Important identified risks 
Hepatic reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special focus in PSUR 
7/13 
Labelling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC 
with regard to patients with impairment of 
liver function or with severe 
hypoproteinemia. 
Warning in  [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that rare cases of severe liver injury, 
including cases with fatal outcome, have 
been reported during treatment with 
leflunomide and stating that ALT must be 
checked before and during treatment, 
providing guidance as regards the 
frequency of testing during treatment and 
patient management in the event of 
increased transaminases. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC with 
regard to transaminase elevation, 
hepatitis, jaundice and severe liver injury 
including hepatic failure as Undesirable 
effects. 
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] 
of SPC concerning the increased risk of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
serious adverse reactions with recent or 
concurrent use of hepatotoxic DMARDs 
(e.g. methotrexate). 
Restricted distribution with initiation 
and supervision of treatment by a 
specialist experienced in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
([Section 4.2] of SPC).  
Communication and Educational 
Program to emphasize to prescribers the 
importance of monitoring liver function. 
Labelling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC 
with regard to patients having 
significantly impaired bone marrow 
function or significant anaemia, 
leucocytopenia or thrombocytopenia due 
to causes other than rheumatoid arthritis 
or psoriatic arthritis. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that a complete blood cell count, 
including differential white blood cell 
count and platelets, must be performed 
before and during treatment and 
recommending that treatment with 
leflunomide be discontinued in the event 
of severe haematologic reactions, 
including pancytopenia, with a washout 
procedure to be administered (details 
provided). 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC on 
Undesirable effects. 
Additionally, information in [Section 4.1] 
of SPC concerning the increased risk of 
serious adverse reactions with recent or 
concurrent use of hematotoxic DMARDs 
(e.g. methotrexate). 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Blood cytopenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
8/13 
Severe skin reactions  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC 
with regard to patients having a 
hypersensitivity to the active substance 
(especially previous Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, 
erythema multiform) or to any of the 
excipients. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that very rare cases of Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis 
have been reported during treatment with 
leflunomide and recommending that 
treatment with leflunomide be 
discontinued in the event of severe skin 
and/or mucosal reactions and washout 
procedure to be administered (details 
provided). 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC 
with regard to patients having severe 
infections. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that medications with immunosuppressive 
properties, like leflunomide, can cause 
patients to be more susceptible to 
infections, including opportunistic 
infections, recommending that treatment 
with leflunomide be discontinued in the 
event of severe uncontrolled infections, 
and that a washout procedure be 
administered in the event that severe, 
uncontrolled infections occur. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of SPC about 
this risk as an Undesirable effect. 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Communication and Educational 
Program to emphasize to prescribers the 
immunosuppressive properties of 
leflunomide, the risk of infections 
including opportunistic infections and the 
contraindication for use in immuno-
compromised patients. 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling 
Special focus in PSUR 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that ILD has been reported during 
treatment with leflunomide, that it is a 
9/13 
 
potentially fatal disorder, and that 
pulmonary symptoms, such as cough and 
dyspnoea, may be a reason for 
discontinuing treatment. Advice on 
administration of a washout procedure in 
the event of discontinuation. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC 
about this risk as an Undesirable event. 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Teratogenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling 
Special focus in PSUR 
Contraindication in [Section 4.3] of SPC 
with regard to pregnant women, or 
women of child-bearing potential who are 
not using reliable contraception during 
treatment with leflunomide. 
Recommendations in [Section 4.6] of the 
SPC with regard to the use of effective 
contraception during and up to 2 years 
after treatment, and on the need to 
monitor menstrual status in women of 
childbearing potential. Instructions on the 
washout procedure or waiting period to be 
applied for women who wish to become 
pregnant are also provided. Reference is 
made to the results of the OTIS study in 
[Section 4.6] of the SPC (proposal for 
Arava® as endorsed by the CHMP 
meeting dated 24 September 2009). 
Communication and Educational 
Program to communicate the risk of 
teratogenicity and to emphasize the 
recommendation to patients to avoid 
pregnancy until leflunomide levels are at 
an appropriate level. 
Ad hoc information service to provide 
patients and prescribers with information 
on the testing of plasma leflunomide 
levels after the waiting period.  
Restricted distribution with initiation 
and supervision of treatment by a 
specialist experienced in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Hypertension 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that blood pressure must be checked 
before the start of treatment with 
leflunomide and periodically thereafter. 
Information in [Section 4.8] of the SPC 
about this risk as an Undesirable effect. 
10/13 
Interactions with 
other DMARDs 
(methotrexate) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special focus in PSUR 
Important potential risks 
Male-mediated 
foetal toxicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Lympho-
proliferative 
disorders 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special focus in PSUR 
11/13 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Labelling 
Indication in [Section 4.1] of SPC 
contains a reminder about the risk of 
initiating leflunomide in the event of 
recent or concurrent treatment with other 
hepatotoxic or hematotoxic DMARDs. A 
washout procedure is recommended when 
switching from leflunomide to another 
DMARD. 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that concomitant administration of 
hepatotoxic or hematotoxic DMARDs 
(e.g. methotrexate) is not advisable. 
Restricted distribution with initiation 
and supervision of treatment by a 
specialist experienced in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
([Section 4.2] of SPC). 
Communication and educational 
activities to ensure the safe and effective 
use of leflunomide in the appropriate 
patient population, particularly with 
regard to combination with other 
DMARDs. 
Labelling 
Warning in [Section 4.4] of SPC stating 
that male patients should be aware of the 
possibility of male-mediated foetal 
toxicity and recommending that reliable 
contraception be used during treatment 
with leflunomide. Instructions on the 
washout procedure and waiting period to 
be applied for men who wish to father a 
child are also provided. 
Information in [Section 4.8] referring to 
decreases in sperm concentration, total 
sperm count and rapid progressive 
motility as Undesirable effects. 
For the patient, [Section 2 of the Package 
Leaflet] provides counselling for male 
patients who wish to father a child. 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Labelling 
Reference in [Section 4.8] of the SPC to 
the fact that the risk of malignancy, 
particularly lymphoproliferative disorders, 
is increased with the use of some 
immunosuppressive agents. 
 
Progressive 
multifocal leuko-
encephalopathy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special focus in PSUR 
Renal failure 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special focus in PSUR 
Important missing information 
Use in children 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Interaction with 
biologic DMARDs 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special focus in PSUR 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
Signal still under evaluation for its 
relevance. No information in the SPC. 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
[Section 4.8] of SPC lists renal failure as 
an undesirable effect with an unknown 
frequency. 
Labelling 
Reference in [Section 4.2] of the SPC to 
the fact that leflunomide is not 
recommended for use in patients below 18 
years of age. 
(Restricted distribution through legal 
status of prescription). 
There is no  specific recommendation 
about  the concomitant use of  
leflunomide with biologic DMARs in the 
SPC, however both types of treatment 
have their prescription  restricted to 
specialists 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that, prior to launch, all physicians who are 
expected to prescribe/use Leflunomide Winthrop are provided with a physician educational pack 
containing the following: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Physician Leaflet 
The Physician Leaflet should contain the following key messages: 
•  That there is a risk of severe liver injury and so regular measurement of ALT (SGPT) levels to 
monitor liver function is important. The information provided in the Physician Leaflet should 
provide information on dose reduction, discontinuation and wash out procedures. 
•  The identified risk of synergistic hepato- or haematotoxicity associated with combination 
therapy with another Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drug (e.g. methotrexate) 
•  That there is a risk of teratogenicity and so pregnancy must be avoided until leflunomide 
plasma levels are at an appropriate level. Physicians and patients should be made aware that 
there is an ad hoc advisory service available to provide information on leflunomide plasma 
level laboratory testing 
•  The risk of infections, including opportunistic infections, and the contraindication for use in 
immuno-compromised patients. 
•  The need to counsel patients on important risks associated with leflunomide therapy and 
appropriate precautions when using the medicine. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that any changes to the safety profile of the 
reference medicinal product requiring changes to the Risk Management Plan or Product Information 
are immediately implemented for Leflunomide Winthrop. 
12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Recommendation 
Since this application is an informed consent of the Arava application, the CHMP considered that the 
risk-benefit  balance  of  Leflunomide  Winthrop  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation for the following indication:  
Leflunomide is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
• 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD), 
active psoriatic arthritis. 
Recent or concurrent treatment with hepatotoxic or haematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) may 
result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions; therefore, the initiation of leflunomide 
treatment has to be carefully considered regarding these benefit/risk aspects. 
Moreover, switching from leflunomide to another DMARD without following the washout procedure 
(see section 4.4) may also increase the risk of serious adverse reactions even for a long time after the 
switching. 
13/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
