Divergent position 1 
1 
 
 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-20/1483/C/3718/0028 
Lemtrada (INN/active substance: alemtuzumab) 
Divergent statement 
The undersigned CHMP members disagree with the recommendation of CHMP for the following 
Lemtrada indication: 
LEMTRADA is indicated as a single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
This recommendation is based on reported cases of pulmonary embolism, vasculitis, CNS autoimmune 
disease, GBS, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, cervicocephalic arterial dissection, cerebral 
haemorrhage, as well as a number of other autoimmune adverse events reported in temporal 
association with Lemtrada. A matter of concern is the higher than expected post-marketing reporting 
rate of fatalities compared to clinical trials including those with short latency after alemtuzumab 
infusion, and the relative young age of patients who died within a short time (30 days) after Lemtrada 
treatment without any known risk factor. 
Due to several remaining uncertainties on the risks associated with Lemtrada use, the undersigned 
CHMP members consider that a more restrictive indication is needed, in line with the provisional 
measures introduced following the start of Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, 
initiated on 10 April 2019. The new risks assessed during the referral are considered unpredictable in 
the majority of patients treated with Lemtrada. In the opinion of the undersigned CHMP members it is 
of special concern that no risk minimization measures (RMM) have been identified that can prevent, 
modify or reduce the occurrence of the severe risks associated with Lemtrada treatment. Although 
contraindications are introduced to prevent the prescription to the most vulnerable patients and 
recommendations to implement additional clinical and laboratory monitoring will be made as a 
conclusion of the referral , it is still not known whether the proposed risk minimization measures could 
significantly reduce or prevent the newly identified risks and protect patients. In the opinion of the 
undersigned CHMP members the only reasonable RMM would be to limit the number of patients 
exposed to Lemtrada. Therefore, Lemtrada indication should be restricted to: “adult patients with 
highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), despite a full and adequate course of 
treatment with at least two other disease modifying treatments (DMTs), or in patients with highly 
active RRMS where any other DMT is contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable”. 
The undersigned CHMP members have considered as well that currently there are available more 
therapeutic alternatives for the treatment of highly active RRMS than those available when 
alemtuzumab was authorised, and their position takes also into account the fact that contrarily to other 
DMTs which could be interrupted if adverse reactions occur, Lemtrada has a particular administration 
schedule (once a year) that makes this measure not possible to apply. 
2 
 
 
 
Once more information is gathered through the studies imposed to the MAH as category 1 studies, and 
less uncertainties remain, Lemtrada indication could be reconsidered. Meanwhile, in view of the serious 
and life-threatening risks associated with alemtuzumab, indication should be kept as stated in the 
provisional measures taken by the European Commission in April 2019. 
CHMP Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
Alexandre Moreau 
Dana Gabriela Marin 
14 November 2019 
14 November 2019 
14 November 2019 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent position 2 
4 
 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-20/1483/C/3718/0028 
Lemtrada (INN/active substance: alemtuzumab) 
Divergent Statement 
The undersigned members generally support the CHMP’s adoption of the recommendations of the PRAC 
with one exception. The recommended contra-indication of ‘Patients with other concomitant 
autoimmune diseases (besides MS)’ is not acceptable for the following reasons.  
There is no robust data to support an inference that patients with other concomitant autoimmune 
diseases (besides MS) are at higher risk of developing unacceptable adverse autoimmune conditions 
after treatment with Lemtrada. Consequently, there is no data to suggest that such a contra-indication 
would reduce the risk of such events.  
The PRAC report acknowledges that the mechanisms behind the occurrence of the adverse 
autoimmune events are not fully understood. It is also acknowledged that there are no reliable 
biomarkers which can be practically used to identify patients who may be at risk of developing such an 
adverse event. The contraindication is recommended based on a precautionary principle of excluding 
the most vulnerable patients. 
Given the above considerations, the proposed contraindication is too broad and not a proportionate risk 
minimization measure. In particular, contra-indicating another course of Lemtrada for patients who 
develop these adverse events after an initial successful course of treatment/s with Lemtrada should be 
an individualized decision. In these patients, both the demonstrated benefits and potential risks should 
be taken into account in making subsequent treatment decisions. In this context, it would be more 
appropriate to consider a more restricted contra-indication along the below lines:  
• 
• 
Patients with other concomitant ‘severe or life threatening’ autoimmune diseases (besides MS) 
or  
Patients with other concomitant ‘pre-existing’ autoimmune diseases (besides MS)  
CHMP Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Martine Trauffler 
Nithyanandan Nagercoil 
Alar Irs 
14 November 2019 
14 November 2019 
14 November 2019 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
