31 October 2019 
EMA/682560/2019 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-20/1483/C/3718/0028  
Lemtrada 
INN/active substance: alemtuzumab 
Note: 
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1. Mode of Action ................................................................................................ 4 
2.1.2. Cumulative estimated patient exposure from marketing experience, including 
sponsored,  non-interventional studies ........................................................................ 5 
2.2. Data on efficacy ................................................................................................. 5 
2.2.1. Long-term efficacy ........................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Benefits among patients with highly active disease ............................................... 7 
2.3. Data on safety ................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.1. Adverse reactions in close temporal relationship to infusion ................................... 8 
2.3.2. Hepatic Injury ............................................................................................... 16 
2.3.3. Autoimmune Diseases .................................................................................... 17 
2.3.4. Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) ..................................................... 23 
2.3.5. Fatalities ...................................................................................................... 24 
2.3.6. Opportunistic infections .................................................................................. 26 
2.4. Conclusion on Safety ........................................................................................ 26 
3. Expert consultation ............................................................................... 27 
4. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 29 
5. Risk management .................................................................................. 31 
5.1. Pharmacovigilance activities .............................................................................. 31 
5.1.1. Non- interventional studies ............................................................................. 31 
5.2. Risk minimisation measures ............................................................................... 32 
5.2.1. Amendments to the product information ........................................................... 32 
5.2.2. Direct Healthcare Professional Communication/Communication plan ..................... 33 
5.2.3. Educational materials ..................................................................................... 33 
6. Conditions to the marketing authorisations ........................................... 33 
7. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 33 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 2/37 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
During the assessment of the periodic safety update report (PSUSA) for Lemtrada 
(EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/201809), the following new emerging and serious safety concerns were 
highlighted in addition to the known safety profile of alemtuzumab, which raised major concerns to the 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC):  
- Fatal cases: Several fatal cases were identified during the PSUSA procedure, which indicate that the 
current recommendations for monitoring may be insufficient. 
- Cardiovascular adverse events in close temporal association with Lemtrada infusions (e.g. cardiac 
ischaemia and myocardial infarction, ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke, arterial dissection, 
pulmonary haemorrhage and embolism, vasculitis and thrombocytopenia), including a possible 
mechanistic relation to these adverse events. 
- Immune-mediated diseases such as auto-immune hepatitis, hepatic injury, auto-immune-mediated 
central nervous system disease and Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS).  
Limited information, including lack of detailed information on the individual cases, was available on 
these concerns during the PSUSA assessment, precluding a thorough evaluation.  
On 10 April 2019 the European Commission (EC) therefore triggered a procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data and requested the PRAC to assess 
the above safety concerns and their impact on the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada and to issue a 
recommendation on whether the relevant marketing authorisation should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or revoked. 
Provisional measures were introduced at the start of procedure to protect patients while the detailed 
evaluation was ongoing. As a provisional measure, it was recommended that new treatment with 
Lemtrada should only be initiated in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least two other disease modifying 
treatments, or in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis where all other 
disease modifying treatments are contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable. 
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease of the central nervous system with unknown aetiology 
characterized by loss of motor and sensory function, which results from immune-mediated 
inflammation, demyelination, and axonal injury and loss. The global prevalence of MS is app. 2 million 
patients, an age-standardized rate of 28 per 100 000. Worldwide prevalence has increased over time. 
MS is the leading cause of non-traumatic disability in young adults, with a peak age of onset between 
20 and 40 years.  
Multiple sclerosis is more common in women than men by approximately 2 to 1. It tends to be more 
frequent in more developed countries; the highest prevalence rates are in North America (140 per 
100 000) and Europe (108 per 100 000) and the lowest rates are in sub-Saharan Africa (2.1 per 
100 000) and East Asia (2.2 per 100 000). There is an expected reduction in life expectancy of 7 to 10 
years. 
Multiple sclerosis can be classified into 4 clinical phenotypes: clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), 
relapsing remittent MS (RRMS), secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS), and primary 
progressive MS (PPMS). RRMS is the most common, characterized by different levels of disease activity 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 3/37 
 
 
 
and severity, particularly in the early stages. Demyelination occurs during acute relapses lasting days 
to months, followed by partial or complete recovery during periods of remission where there is no 
disease activity. Approximately 55% of people with MS have RRMS. Higher percentages (85%) of 
patients have RRMS at diagnosis; however, 90% of people with RRMS progress to SPMS after 20 to 25 
years.  
Subpopulations of MS patients can be classified based on their history of relapse and accompanying 
MRI imaging features. There is no single definition of high-activity disease (HAD) or rapidly-evolving 
severe MS (RES) and the definitions of different authors vary (overview Fernandez O, 2017)1. The 
indication HAD RRMS has been used in the EU for several highly active disease-modifying therapies 
(DMTs). In addition RES RRMS has been defined in the EU regulatory context for other licensed DMTs; 
as 2 or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain 
MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI.  
For patients with HAD, most designated MS centres /specialists currently adopt an approach of rapid 
and effective immunomodulation to prevent aggressive disease progression and severe disability 
accumulation. Early initiation of effective immunotherapy is considered important in this group of 
patients due to a narrow therapeutic window to prevent an irreversible accumulation of disability. 
Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have concluded that higher-efficacy therapies are most likely to 
reduce MS relapse rates in patients with HAD (Fernandez O, 2017). 
2.1.1.  Mode of Action 
Alemtuzumab (Lemtrada) is a humanised monoclonal antibody (IgG1 kappa) which binds to CD52, a 
cell surface antigen present at high levels on T (CD3+) and B (CD19+) lymphocytes, and at lower 
levels on natural killer cells, monocytes and macrophages. There is little or no CD52 detected on 
neutrophils, plasma cells, or bone marrow stem cells. Alemtuzumab acts through antibody-dependent 
cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis following cell surface binding to T and B lymphocytes, 
leading to rapid depletion of B- and T-lymphocytes.  
Lymphocytes begin to repopulate after each depletion course, and the kinetics of repopulation are 
similar after the first and second courses. B cell recovery is usually complete within 6 months, whilst T 
lymphocyte counts slowly rise towards normal and may approach LLN by 12 months. Overall, 
approximately 80% of patients in clinical trials have total lymphocyte counts that reach the LLN within 
12 months of each course. 
The mechanism by which alemtuzumab exerts its therapeutic effects in MS is not fully elucidated. It is 
suggested that Lemtrada may have immunomodulatory effects through the depletion and repopulation 
of lymphocytes, including: alterations in the number, proportions, and properties of some lymphocyte 
subsets post-treatment, representation of regulatory T cell subsets, representation of memory T- and 
B-lymphocytes and transient effects on components of innate immunity (i.e., neutrophils, 
macrophages, NK cells). 
Alemtuzumab has previously been authorised in the EU for treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (B-CLL), under the name MabCampath. In other regions of the world, alemtuzumab for B-
cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is still available under the name Campath.  
1 Fernandez O et al, 2017 Is there a change of paradigm towards more effective treatment early in the course of apparent 
high-risk MS? Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2017 Oct;17:75-83. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 4/37 
 
 
 
 
2.1.2.  Cumulative estimated patient exposure from marketing experience, 
including sponsored,  non-interventional studies 
As of 31 March 2019, a cumulative total of approximately 25,292 patients were treated  with Lemtrada 
(alemtuzumab) since marketing authorisation was granted in 2013. This represents an estimated 
55,431  patient-years of exposure. Additionally, in the same  period 1638 patients had received at least 
one treatment course with alemtuzumab in  interventional clinical trials sponsored by Sanofi Genzyme. 
This represents a total cumulative exposure of  8635 patient-years. When clinical trial exposure is 
considered, the total cumulative number of  patients is 26,930 and the cumulative exposure is 64,066 
patient-years. 
Approximately 50 % of patients are exposed in the EEA (13515 first course patients and 9868 
continuing patients) and approximately 30 % in the USA. 
2.2.  Data on efficacy 
The efficacy of alemtuzumab in RRMS patients is well established. No new efficacy data were made 
available during the current procedure to alter previous conclusions. A short summary of efficacy is 
given below. Further detail is available in the European Public Assessment report and the product 
information. 
The Lemtrada clinical program comprises a completed Phase 2 study (CAMMS223), 2 completed 
confirmatory Phase 3 studies (CAMMS323 and CAMMS324, and an Extension Study (CAMMS03409) 
with follow-up data from the Phase 2 and 3 studies and for the treatment of consenting, eligible 
patients with additional courses of alemtuzumab. The Phase 2 and 3 studies were active-controlled, 
randomized, rater-blinded studies comparing the safety and efficacy of alemtuzumab to high-dose sc 
interferon beta-1a (IFNB-1a) in patients with RRMS. Studies CAMMS223 and CAMMS323 enrolled 
treatment-naïve patients, and Study CAMMS324 enrolled patients who had ≥1 relapse during prior MS 
treatment (for≥6 months) with interferon beta or glatiramer acetate.  
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 5/37 
 
 
 
Table 1 Key clinical and MRI endpoints from CAMMS03409 
2.2.1.  Long-term efficacy 
Alemtuzumab’s beneficial treatment effects are long term  with evidence from the clinical program 
suggesting that these effects are maintained based on  3- and 5-year data from the supportive Phase 2 
study CAMMS223 and 6-year data from the  CAMMS03409 study with a two years additional follow-up 
in the TOPAZ study. Thus, many patients who receive alemtuzumab may not subsequently  require 
further treatment in order to control their MS for an extended period. For those patients who do require 
additional courses, CAMMS03409 demonstrated efficacy of a third or fourth  treatment course. In the 
CAMMS323 population, 41% of patients achieved confirmed disability  improvement over 8 years, and 
47% of patients from CAMMS324 achieved confirmed disability  improvement over the same period. 
This data is supported by long-term retention  rate in the TOPAZ study; 77% from CAMMS323 and 69 
% from CAMMS324 who initiated  treatment with alemtuzumab 12 mg stayed until the end of the Year 
8 follow up (i.e., 8 years since  initiation of treatment with alemtuzumab). 
Maintained long-term efficacy of alemtuzumab was seen across age groups. The majority of 
participants in different age group had stable or improved EDSS scores versus baseline 8 years prior in 
the TOPAZ study (fig 1). Alemtuzumab had a positive effect on brain volume loss during the 
observation period of 8 years (fig. 2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 6/37 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Participants with worsened, stable, or improved EDSS scores from the core study 
baseline by age in TOPAZ 
Figure 2 Change in brain volume loss over 8 years by age group at enrolment in TOPAZ 
2.2.2.  Benefits among patients with highly active disease 
A substantial percentage of patients in the CAMMS323 and  CAMMS324 study populations can be 
characterized as having highly active MS. At baseline in  CAMMS323 and CAMMS324, 98% of the 
alemtuzumab treated patients had ≥1 relapse the  previous year (in both studies), 50% to 60% had 
≥2 relapses, and 45% to 46% had Gd+ MRI  lesions at baseline. In this population with a high level of 
disease activity, the magnitude  of alemtuzumab’s treatment effects on diverse efficacy measures 
compared to those of INFB-1a  was large in both relative and absolute terms, and clinically relevant. 
Study CAMMS324 included a patient population that meets the first criterion for HAD defined  above. 
The inclusion criteria included patients with 1 relapse in the previous year and at least  1 Gd-enhancing 
lesion or 9 or more T2 lesions, despite a full and adequate course of at least 1  DMT. In this study, 
alemtuzumab reduced the annualized relapse rate through 2 years of treatment by 49% compared 
with IFNB-1a (p <0.0001) in patients. Further, confirmed disability  worsening was reduced 
significantly in alemtuzumab patients compared with INFB 1a (hazard  ratio 0.58 (0.38, 0.87), p = 
0.0084).  
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 7/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-hoc analyses of data from the Phase 3 studies CAMMS324 and CAMMS323, of RRMS patients with 2 
or more relapses in the prior year and at least 1 Gd-enhanced T1 lesion at baseline, were also presented. 
Data from other studies were not possible to take into account, due to differences in the MRI acquisition 
algorithms between the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies. In this subgroup, the annualised relapse rate was 
0.26 (95% CI: 0.20, 0.34) in the Lemtrada treated group (n = 205) and 0.51 (95% CI: 0.40, 0.64) in 
the IFNB-1a group (n = 102) (p<0.0001). As these results come from a post hoc analysis, they should 
be interpreted cautiously. 
In CAMMS324 patients with rapidly evolving MS who had an inadequate response to prior  therapy, 
alemtuzumab demonstrated durable efficacy on MRI outcomes, including brain volume  loss, over 6 
years. In CAMMS323 patients with HAD, long-term efficacy of alemtuzumab on  MRI activity and brain 
atrophy in treatment-naive RRMS patients with HAD at core study  baseline was demonstrated. These 
findings are consistent with clinical and radiologic outcomes  for the overall CAMMS323 study 
population. 
2.3.  Data on safety 
The main safety concerns to be assessed within this referral procedure are fatal cases, cardiovascular 
adverse events with particular focus on those occurring within 30 days of infusion, autoimmune 
diseases and hepatic injury, due to emerging safety data from the post marketing setting.   
Overall, the cumulative reviews performed by the MAH have various limitations e.g. which PTs are 
used in database searches and in assessment of confounders. However, in most cases there is 
sufficient evidence to conclude a causal association with most of the serious adverse events. 
2.3.1.  Adverse reactions in close temporal relationship to infusion  
2.3.1.1.  Myocardial ischaemia and myocardial infarction 
Analysis of data 
Myocardial ischaemia occurs when blood flow to the heart is reduced, limiting the blood supply to the 
heart muscle and reducing transfer of oxygen and nutrients, leading to symptoms.  
Two searches (myocardial infarction and myocardial ischemia) were performed in the MAH’s 
safety database (from the International Birth Date [IBD] 12 September 2013 through 31 March 
2019). Cases were assessed retrospectively against the World Health Organization’s (WHO) 
definition for acute coronary syndrome.  
•  Myocardial ischaemia 
The cumulative search retrieved 2 cases of cardiac ischaemia with time to onset (TTO) ≤ 30 days in a 
24-year old female on day 1 of cycle 1 and in a 59 year old female about 1 week after cycle 2. 
•  Myocardial infarction 
The cumulative search retrieved 32 cases with TTO ≤30 days. Of these 32 cases, 5 were excluded from 
further analysis for the other reasons (duplicate or non-MS indication). The remaining 27 cases with 
possible myocardial infarction and TTO ≤30 days were considered to have compatible chronology for a 
possible association with alemtuzumab. The age range of the concerned patients was 24 to 66 years; 
the mean age was 45 years. In 10 of 27 cases, the patient had one or more traditional risk factors for 
underlying coronary artery disease (e.g. diabetes, lipid disorder, smoking). In 18 of 27 cases (63 %) 
there were 1 or more immediate risk factors for myocardial infarction (e.g. increased blood pressure, 
tachycardia, bradycardia) (Tab.2). With respect to product use, for 25 of 27 cases, the alemtuzumab 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 8/37 
 
 
 
dilution method and infusion rate are unknown. In 5 cases, the alemtuzumab cycle was prolonged (i.e. 
the infusions were not given on consecutive days). With respect to steroids and other pre-medications, 
1 patient was pre-medicated with intravenous methylprednisolone at the recommended dose, 1 patient 
was pre-medicated with oral steroids, and 1 patient was not pre-medicated. For the remaining 24 
cases, pre-medication with steroids was either not mentioned (n = 9) or poorly documented (n = 15).  
Table 2 Pattern analysis of 27 cases of possible myocardial infarction with TTO ≤ 30 days 
Parameters  
Probable case or case with compatible chronology 
Age 
Sex 
Time to onset 
One or more risk factors for underlying CAD 
(n= 27) 
Range 24-66 years 
Mean: 45 years 
Median: 44 years 
Female/male: 21/6 
0 days: 14 
1 day: 6 
2 days: 1 
5 days: 1 
7 days: 1 
8 days: 1 
21 days: 1 
32 days:1 
Unknown: 1 
10 cases 
One or more immediate risk factors for myocardial 
18 cases 
infarction 
Immediate risk factors for myocardial infarction 
Hypertension event: 5   
Blood pressure increased: 7 
Blood pressure fluctuation: 1  
Hypotension: 2 
Bradycardia: 3 
Heart rate decreased: 3  
Sinus bradycardia: 2 
Tachycardia: 3 
Atrial flutter: 1 
Heart rate increased: 3 
Cycle 1: 21  
Cycle 2: 4 
Cycle unknown: 2 
Cycle of alemtuzumab therapy 
A tabulated summary of the 27 cases are shown in the table below (Tab. 3). It is important to note 
that the majority of cases occurred within 2 days after the last infusion. Two reports (thereof one 
fatality) which occurred on days 21 and 23 had other aetiologies (infections, ARDS).   
Table 3 Reported events of interest, time to onset from first and last dose of alemtuzumab 
Age & gender of 
patient 
Reported event 
of interest 
50 y F 
44 y F 
54 y F 
unstable  angina 
chest pain 
myocardial infarct 
Cycle 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
TTO from 
last dose 
TTO from 
first dose 
Comment 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
during infusion 1 
0 days 
2 hrs after starting infusion 1* 
1 day 
on second day of infusion 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 9/37 
 
 
 
 
47 y F 
62 y F 
43 y F 
47y F 
40y F 
troponin increased 
ST elevation, RR ↑  
myocardial infarct 
myocardial infarct 
troponin increased 
65y M 
troponin increased 
36y F 
40y F 
24y F 
30 y F 
48y F 
41y F 
ST elevation 
 chest pain, myocardial 
necrosis 
acute coronary 
syndrome (Category A) 
AMI, RR ↑ 
myocardial infarct 
myocardial infarct 
(Category A) 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
0 days 
1 day 
2nd infusion day (5 infusions over 12  days) 
3 days 
2 infusions over 4 days? 
4 days 
several hours after infusion 5 
0 days 
during infusion 1 
1 day 
several hours after 2nd infusion 
2 days 
several hours after infusion 3 
0 days 
3 days 
at the end of 4th infusion 
1 day 
1 day 
very limited information 
cycle 1 
1 day 
3 days 
early morning, one day after infusion  3 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
cycle 1 
1 day 
1 day 
1 day 
4 days 
1 day after infusion 3? 
5 days 
1 day after infusion 5? 
5 days 
1 day after completing 5 infusions? 
32 y F 
CPK-MB increased 
cycle 1 
1 day 
3 days 
1 day after infusion 3 
53y F 
62y F 
47y F 
DD. pneumonitis 
myocardial infarct, RR out 
of control 
troponin increased, SIRS, 
Sepsis, Pneumonia 
myocardial infarct, ARDS, 
sepsis MRSA, cardiac arrest,   
cycle 1 
2 days 
6 days 
2 days after infusion 51 
cycle 1 
21 days 
25 days 
5 infusions over 5 days, well tolerated 
cycle 1 
23 days 
27 days 
23 days after infusion 5 
66y F 
chest pain 
cycle 1 
5 days 
12 days 
5 infusions over 8 days 
33y F 
myocardial infarct 
cycle 1 
7 days 
14 days 
5 infusions over 8 days 
53y F 
40y F 
myocardial infarct resulting 
in RCA stent placement 
myocardial necrosis marker 
increased 
cycle 1 
8 days 
12 days 
8 days after infusion 5 
cycle 1(?) 
unk 
2 days 
very limited information 
27y M 
ST elevation 
cycle 2 
0 days 
0 days 
during infusion 1 
37y M 
coronary artery occlusion, 
RR ↑, arrhythmia resulting 
in  stent  placement 
cycle 2 
0 days 
0 days 
1 hour after completing first infusion 
51y F 
chest pain 
cycle 2 
0 days 
2 days 
chest pain during 2nd and 3rd infusions 
34y F 
troponin increased 
cycle 2 
0 days 
3 days 
10 minutes after starting infusion 4 
1 MI later not confirmed, MRSA: multi-drug resistent staph aureus, *Patient not pre-medicated 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 10/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The searches for myocardial infarction and myocardial ischaemia identified 22 potential cases (1 
potential case of myocardial ischaemia, and 21 potential cases of myocardial infarction) with TTO 
within 72 hours from the last infusion. According to the MAH two cases met Category A criteria for 
acute coronary syndrome (myocardial infarction). It is noted that the assessment of certainty of the 
diagnoses according to the WHO criteria for myocardial infarction by the MAH was very conservative, 
and that retrospective use of the case definition in particular for spontaneous reports may result in 
underestimation of related cases.   
There was one fatal case of acute respiratory distress syndrome and sepsis which occurred 23 days 
after the last alemtuzumab infusion, respectively. In this case there was a report of myocardial 
infarction; however there was little or no evidence of a primary cardiac event caused by alemtuzumab. 
It is concluded that the cumulative evidence is sufficient to consider acute coronary syndrome as an 
infusion-associated reaction. The majority of cases occurred within 48 hours after the last infusion.  
Concerning pre-existing risk factors, the majority of patients had no medical history of a cardiac 
disease or other classical pre-existing risk factors for acute coronary syndrome, but according to the 
MAH 63% of patients developed infusion reactions such as increased blood pressure, tachycardia and 
bradycardia which might be a risk factor for acute coronary syndrome. Considering that up to 90% of 
patients treated in clinical studies with Lemtrada experienced infusion related reactions, this finding is 
considered to be expected. Due to a lack of discernible pattern it is difficult to identify in advance 
patients at risk for acute coronary syndrome. 
Potential pathomechanism 
A potential mechanism for infusion related reactions is that administration of alemtuzumab leads to an 
artificial induction of an inflammatory response mediated by release of pro-inflammatory cytokines 
such as IL-6, IL-1b, TNFα, IFNγ, IL-10, and potentially vasoactive compounds following peripheral 
lymphocyte cytolysis2. Administration of high-dose corticosteroids and antihistaminic agents provide 
some mediation of the expected signs and symptoms. Evidence supports potential enhancement of 
vasomotor tone within the coronary vasculature triggered by prolonged circulation of inflammatory 
cytokines. With a number myocardial ischaemic events reported, it appears there may be an 
idiosyncratic pre-disposition to appearance of symptoms. Notably, published data suggest that specific 
Fcγ receptor polymorphisms may predispose certain patients to increased cytokine release in response 
to alemtuzumab exposure3, 4. 
Risk minimisation  
It is assumed that pre-existing cardiovascular disorders and risk factors such as known history of 
angina pectoris, myocardial infarction and patients with uncontrolled hypertension will increase the risk 
of acute coronary syndrome in case the patients develop cytokine release syndrome in close temporal 
association with the administration. As a consequence there is agreement that Lemtrada treatment 
should be avoided in these vulnerable patient groups.  
However, it is noted that no pre-existing cardiovascular risk factor was identified for several patients 
who developed ACS (n=17/27).  
Patients should also be carefully monitored before, during and after the infusion. Treatment should be 
stopped if any clinically significant abnormality occurs during the infusion.  
2 Thomas K, Eisele J, Rodriguez-Leal FA, Hainke U, Ziemssen T. Acute effects of  alemtuzumab infusion in patients with 
active relapsing-remitting MS. Neurol Neuroimmunol  Neuroinflamm. 2016 Apr 29;3(3):e228 
3 Alakhras NS, Qiu J, Rocha GV, Witcher DR, Koester A, You J, et al. FcγRIIIa-dependent IFN-γ release in whole blood assay 
is predictive of therapeutic IgG1 antibodies safety. MAbs. 2018 Aug/Sep;10(6):913-921 
4 Hussain K, Hargreaves CE, Rowley TF, Sopp JM, Latham KV, Bhatta P, et al. Impact of Human FcγR Gene Polymorphisms on 
IgG-Triggered Cytokine Release: Critical Importance of Cell Assay Format. Front Immunol. 2019 Mar 7;10:390 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 11/37 
 
 
 
 
2.3.1.2.  Cerebrovascular accident including arterial dissection 
Data analysed 
The search of the MAH’s global pharmacovigilance database (from 12 September 2013 through 31 
March 2019) retrieved 128 cases. One hundred three cases were excluded because they had a TTO 
>30 days, TTO unknown, or were duplicate cases and diagnoses outside of the events of interest (i.e., 
ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke, cervical arterial dissection). Twenty-five remaining cases of 
reported cerebrovascular accident which occurred within 30 days of an alemtuzumab infusion were 
included in the analysis. All 25 cases were serious, and one had a fatal outcome. There were 21 
females and 4 males with an age range of 25 to 58 years (mean 42.5 years). Nine reports concerned 
patients below the age of 40 years. By country of incidence, 17 of 25 cases occurred in the United 
States. An overview of preferred terms of interest for the 25 cases is provided in the table below: 
Table 4 Overview of preferred terms of interest in the analysis of cerebrovascular accident 
Event preferred term 
Case 
count 
Nervous system disorders  Basal ganglia haemorrhage 
Basal ganglia stroke 
Carotid artery dissection 
Central nervous system haemorrhage 
Cerebellar infarction 
Cerebral haemorrhage 
Cerebral infarction 
Cerebrovascular accident 
Haemorrhage intracranial 
Haemorrhagic stroke 
Intraventricular haemorrhage 
Ischaemic stroke 
Vertebral artery dissection 
Arterial rupture 
Artery dissection 
Vascular disorders 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
2 
8 
3 
2 
1 
2 
3 
1 
1 
Serious 
event 
count 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
2 
8 
3 
2 
1 
2 
3 
1 
1 
Non-serious 
event 
count 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Cases with time to onset within 5 days from the last infusion 
Multiple searches related to cerebrovascular disease identified 13 potential cases with time to  onset 
within 5 days from the last infusion: 
•  Eight cases within 5 days from the last infusion were identified by the search criteria utilized 
as  intracerebral haemorrhage. Six of the eight defined clinical cases are documented to have 
had been  observed with increased blood pressure (BP) during the infusion period, one did 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 12/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not comment on  vital signs and one indicated BP stability. In review of the Azevedo article5, 
3 of 5 patients were  discharged from the infusion centre with BP elevations. None  of the 
cases reported clinically significant reductions in platelets.  
• 
Four cases within 5 days from the last infusion were identified by the search criteria utilized 
as  ischaemic stroke. One of the cases is unlikely clinically to represent an ischaemic stroke. 
One case has insufficient  information to be classified. One of  these 2 cases clinically 
confirmed to represent ischaemic strokes had documentation of an increase in BP, the other 
made no mention in the reporting. It is worth noting that the number of reported cerebral 
haemorrhages exceeded the number of reported cerebral infarctions, which is opposite the 
expected picture in the background population.  
•  One case within 5 days after the last infusion was identified by the search criteria utilized as 
arterial dissection. This patient was  reported to have an increase in BP identified during the 
infusion period.  
Cases with time to onset after 5 days from the last infusion until 30 days after the last  infusion 
Multiple searches related to cerebrovascular disease identified 12 potential cases with times to onset 
from >5 days until 30 days after the last infusion.  
• 
Two cases had no confirmation of stroke. Four of the  12 potential cases were not able to be 
confirmed as cerebral ischaemic infarction, primary  intracerebral haemorrhage, or arterial 
dissection by clinical assessment of the case descriptions. Based on clinical assessment  of the 
case descriptions, 2 of the cases appear to be consistent  with transient ischaemic attack or 
migraine equivalent. One of the cases based on clinical  assessment of the case descriptions is 
noted to not be of ischaemic arterial origin  but rather venous thrombosis in origin.  
• 
Two cases within 5 to 30 days from the last infusion were  identified by the search criteria 
utilized as ischaemic stroke, one patient with a history of stroke. Five cases within 5 to 30 days 
from the last infusion had cervical  arterial dissection. Four patients  recovered or had no 
ongoing  neurological deficits over the course of time. One patient had some residual  deficit. 
There were no fatalities in this patient population. No clear BP or heart rate changes  that 
extended beyond the 5-day time period were identified in these cases. 
Cervical dissections 
The majority of the six identified cases of cervical arterial dissection in the peri-infusion period were of 
multiple vascular dissections. These dissections originate in the muscular middle layer of the  vascular 
wall and only secondarily penetrate the intimal layer. The MAH is of the opinion that the relatively late 
appearance of cervical arterial dissections does not indicate an infusion related reaction and is 
conflicted by the probability of some inherent susceptibility such as chiropractic manipulation within 
individual patients with this occurrence. However the narratives of the respective reports lack any 
mentioning of a trauma. The possibility of vertebral artery dissection associated with chiropractic 
cervical manipulation has been discussed, and rates of 1 in 10 000 to 1 in 2 million have been reported 
in the literature6. Thus, it appears very unlikely that the artery dissections in patients treated with 
Lemtrada were all related to chiropractic dissection. Notably, several (young) patients with cervical 
5 Azevedo CJ, Kutz C, Dix A, Boster A, Sanossian N, Kaplan J. Intracerebral haemorrhage during alemtuzumab 
administration. Lancet Neurol. 2019 Apr;18(4):329-331 
6 Chen WL, Chern CH, Wu YL, Lee CH Vertebral artery dissection and cerebellar infarction following chiropractic manipulation. 
Emerg Med J 2006; 23 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 13/37 
 
 
 
 
arterial dissections had experienced unusual multiple dissections. The MAH also argued that the latency 
of the events does not support a causal relationship. Considering that diagnoses may be delayed and 
the unusual pattern in young patients the causal relationship with alemtuzumab a casual association is 
considered at least possible. 
Risk Minimization  
Concerning haemorrhagic stroke, pre-identification of  patients at high risk of haemorrhagic stroke is 
challenging because no biomarker / risk factor could be identified. Azevedo et al. reported that cerebral 
haemorrhage observed in the 4 of the 5 intracerebral haemorrhage cases  demonstrated typical 
hypertensive haemorrhage, i.e. within basal ganglia that are supplied by the deep perforating arteries. 
There was one case each of frontal lobe haemorrhage and  intraventricular haemorrhage. The authors 
reported that all 5 patients in the case series had  increasing BP measurements at the infusion clinics 
prior to the day of the haemorrhage. Peak BP that was very close to or greater than 20% over the 
baseline BP. It was suggested that the potential combination of an endothelial dysfunction and sudden 
increase in BP causing  haemorrhage in patients with pre-existing atherosclerotic changes might be a 
plausible explanation for the intracerebral haemorrhage. The relative increase of blood pressure as a 
potential biomarker for intracerebral bleedings was extensively discussed within the procedure. 
However it was noted that in the case series by Azevedo et al, not all patients had recorded systolic 
hypertension (two patients were normotonic). Also BP results after discharge from the infusion clinic 
are unknown and usually cerebral autoregulation maintains cerebral blood flow constant despite 
fluctuations in systemic BP. Although interesting, the hypothesis of Azevedo et al needs further 
confirmation. In addition, in the IVSS study 7, hypertension with systolic BP ≥160 mmHg was observed 
in 38.5% of participants, mainly after Day 3.  
In conclusion, the increase of blood pressure ≥ 20 % of baseline was not considered a reliable 
biomarker for an increased risk of cerebral haemorrhage. The only risk minimization measure identified 
so far is to contraindicate vulnerable patients, i.e. patients with a history of stroke, history of arterial 
dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries or uncontrolled hypertension. Furthermore, patients should 
also be carefully monitored before, during and after the infusion. Treatment should be stopped if any 
clinically significant abnormality occurs during the infusion.  
Regarding arterial dissection, considering the seriousness of the complication and the absence of 
reasonable alternative explanations, it is justified to contraindicate patients with a known history of 
arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries. 
2.3.1.3.  Pulmonary haemorrhage 
Data analysed 
There were 7 cases of pulmonary haemorrhage retrieved. Six cases of  pulmonary haemorrhage 
occurred on the day of the infusion in Cycle 1, and 1 case occurred few  days after Cycle 3. There 
was a close temporal association with alemtuzumab in all the 7 cases. The review of cases did not 
find any  fatal events, and all events recovered with treatment. At least in 2 cases, Goodpasture’s 
syndrome was considered, but not confirmed/reported by the detection of anti-GBM antibodies. In 
five cases recovery was complete and respiratory symptoms, most frequently  haemoptysis and 
cough, were transient. The outcome is unknown in 2 cases.  
Pulmonary associated haemorrhage has been reported and is thought to represent  pulmonary 
alveolar haemorrhage. Almost all instances were noteworthy for short latency  following 
alemtuzumab infusion. The cumulative evidence is sufficient to suggest possible causal association 
7 Infusion vital sign study (OBS14379) - A prospective observational cohort study in adult patients with relapsing multiple 
sclerosis to assess patient safety during and after Lemtrada (alemtuzumab) infusions of the first treatment course 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 14/37 
 
 
 
 
between  alemtuzumab and pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage in close temporal relation to 
alemtuzumab  infusion.  
Pathomechanism 
Although the mechanistic link between alemtuzumab and pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage has not 
been  clearly elucidated, the short latency rules out an autoimmune mechanism. An alternative 
explanation  could be pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage caused by cytokine release syndrome and 
associated  capillary haemorrhage secondary to endothelial dysfunction.   
Risk minimization 
The predominant symptoms of dyspnoea and  haemoptysis were distinct and enabled all patients to 
seek treatment. There was a lack of data  regarding vital signs or laboratory parameters in the case 
reports, and as a result no potential early biomarkers to identify pulmonary arterial hypertension 
were found. However due to the distinct nature of symptoms,  proper education would allow patients 
to seek medical care early. Pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage will be added to sections 4.2 and 4.4 of 
the product information as an event which may occur in close association with Lemtrada 
administration, and to section 4.8 as an adverse reaction of Lemtrada treatment (unknown 
frequency). Further, patients with known coagulopathy, and/ or being treated with anti-platelet or 
anti-coagulant therapy should be contraindicated. 
2.3.1.4.  Pulmonary embolism 
A search of the MAH’s pharmacovigilance database revealed 20 cases of pulmonary embolism within 
the timeframe of ≤30 days post-infusion of  alemtuzumab. The search found that of these 20 cases, 12 
events  occurred in females, and 8 events occurred in males. The median age for the patients was 37 
years. 
The events are briefly described below:  
•  13 cases occurred within cycle 1, 1 after cycle 2, cycle unknown in 6 cases 
•  12 cases had TTO < 5 days or a few days 
•  2 cases had unconfirmed pulmonary embolism 
•  10 cases had confounders or were unlikely related due to various reasons – e.g. previous DVT 
history, superficial thrombophlebitis, hospitalization due to infection, obesity and immobility 
including being bed-ridden, concurrent Crohn’s disease, long TTO from infusion, etc. unlikely 
associated with the infusion 
In 4 cases had insufficient information 
In 4 cases a causal association cannot be ruled out 
• 
• 
Although the MAH argues that a higher risk for VTE is known for MS patients, it is noted that 12 cases 
(63%) out of 19 cases had TTO ≤5 days or a few days of infusion. This may be related to prolonged 
immobility during the infusion process. Based on the above described confounding factors the 
cumulative weighted evidence is at present insufficient to support a causal association between 
alemtuzumab and pulmonary embolism. This event should be closely monitored.  
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 15/37 
 
 
 
 
2.3.1.5.  Thrombocytopenia 
Data analysed 
Immediate non-immune-mediated thrombocytopenia following  alemtuzumab infusion has been 
reported in the literature. Reported cases range from  asymptomatic to having signs of spontaneous 
bleeding. In the case series by Ranganathan8, 3 of 22 patients developed mild self-limited bruising 
associated with a drop in platelet count from their baseline during the initial 5-day course of 
alemtuzumab. In the cases series by Yap and colleagues9, 34 of 48 patients experienced a platelet 
count drop below the lower limit of normal (150,000/µL) during the first 5 days of any cycle of 
alemtuzumab therapy. Median time from first infusion to platelet drop below LLN (150 000/uL) was 2 
days (range 1-6 days) with a normalisation of platelet count at median 7 days. All 48 patients had a 
normal baseline platelet count and no prior documented platelet disorder.  
The cumulative search in the MAH’s global pharmacovigilance database generated 71 cases with a TTO 
within 30 days after the last infusion including 3 fatal cases. All the fatal cases had important 
confounders. The MAH stated that due to lack of relevant information in the remaining 68 cases, it was 
not possible to assess the majority of the cases. However, important aspects were not analysed and 
might be missed. Also every concomitant medication (paracetamol, acyclovir) was regarded by the 
MAH as a confounder. Even pulmonary haemorrhage is considered as a confounder to decreased 
platelet count (and not a potential consequence of decreased platelet count). For example, the MAH 
stated that there was no indication that spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage or gastrointestinal 
bleeding was linked to critically low platelet count in their analyses and that it is unlikely that that 
immediate  non-immune-mediated thrombocytopenia will cause spontaneous bleeding in the central 
nervous  system. Notably, platelet counts were not reported in several cases of intracranial and 
pulmonary haemorrhages during /post infusion. Thus, thrombocytopenia cannot be definitely ruled out 
in these cases. Transient symptoms of thrombocytopenia such as petechia and ecchymosis are likely to 
be underreported. Because the procedure does also not address other bleeding events other than 
intracranial and pulmonary haemorrhages the statement of the MAH cannot be fully confirmed.  
In summary thrombocytopenia in close temporal association with the administration of Lemtrada has 
been reported in clinical trials and literature within the first 5 days after infusion. However, 
uncertainties remain with regards to whether this is transient and mostly benign thrombocytopenia. 
This should continue to be monitored. 
Risk Minimization 
Platelet count needs to be monitored on Days 3 and 5 immediately post-infusion, for the first course of 
treatment as well as on Day 3 post-infusion in all subsequent courses. This recommendation is based on 
observations by Yap et  al. Thirty-four (34) of 48 (71 %) patients in the cohort experienced 
thrombocytopenia with a median time from  alemtuzumab infusion to thrombocytopenia of 2 days. 
Clinically significant thrombocytopenia needs to be followed until resolution. Referral to a haematologist 
for management should be considered. The product information will be updated accordingly. 
2.3.2.  Hepatic Injury 
One hundred forty-eight cases of hepatic injury were retrieved from the MAH’s database. Of these 
cases, 26 were Campath study cases, which were excluded from further  analysis because they were 
8 Ranganathan et al. Immediate transient thrombocytopenia at the time of alemtuzumab infusion in multiple sclerosis. 
Multiple Sclerosis Journal 2018, Vol. 24(4) 540–542 
9 Yap SM, McNicholas N, Hutchinson M, McGuigan C. Immediate thrombocytopenia at time  of alemtuzumab infusion for 
multiple sclerosis - Not always self-limiting, fully reversible or predictable. Mult Scler. 2018 Apr;24(4):552-553 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 16/37 
 
 
 
 
obtained another disease setting. Twenty-seven (27) were autoimmune cases that are discussed as a 
part of the evaluation of autoimmune  hepatitis cases, and the remaining 95 are analysed. 
Of the 95 cases, 13 were non-serious and 82 were serious. Of the 82 serious cases, 7 were fatal  and 
10 were non-fatal suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions; 2 were reported with drug-induced 
liver injury, 51 cases (including 4 clinical trial  cases) reported concomitant 
conditions/events/medications that may have precipitated  autoimmune hepatitis, and the remaining 
12 cases lacked past medical history/ concomitant  medications and/or prior treatment information. A 
number of identified serious events retrieved  from this search were indeed from non-MS patients who 
received alemtuzumab for other  indications. Events seen in this group of patients included, but were 
not limited to reported hepatic  failure, and hepatitis. All of these patients had strong confounders for 
liver injury such as medical  history or concomitant medications. 
The reported cases containing hepatic injury and hepatic failure as reported event terms in MS 
patients indicate that, in most cases, the hepatic injury and hepatic failure had other primary  causes, 
e.g. infection, sepsis, or confounders such as concomitant medications. For example, among the fatal 
cases there was one case from the EU concerning a woman who died 11 days after the first cycle of 
alemtuzumab. DNA sequencing of the liver biopsy from the autopsy found cytomegalovirus. 
The increased risk of infections (primarily during the lymphocyte depletion  phase) and autoimmunity 
(during the lymphocyte repopulation phase) of  alemtuzumab may as a secondary effect cause hepatic 
injury. In addition, cytokine release caused by alemtuzumab may be associated with massive but 
transient liver enzyme increase (labelled). The cumulative weighted evidence is at present considered 
insufficient to support a causal association between  alemtuzumab and (permanent) hepatic injury 
(other than autoimmune hepatitis) as a primary effect.  
2.3.3.  Autoimmune Diseases 
2.3.3.1.  Autoimmune hepatitis  
Data analysed 
As of 31 March 2019, a total of 40 unique case reports autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) were retrieved 
from the MAH’s database. Twelve of 40 cases did not meet the medical criteria of AIH. Fourteen cases 
had insufficient information. Five cases had concomitant conditions/events/medications that may have 
precipitated AIH. Nine cases had enough information and no known concomitant conditions/events/ 
medications. The nine cases of AIH in alemtuzumab-treated patients translate into a reporting rate of 
16 cases per 100000 person-years. If patients with insufficient information are also included, these 28 
cases translate into 50 cases per 100000 person-years. Although these estimations are associated with 
substantial uncertainty, this is higher than the rate reported in MS patients (17 to 23 per 100 000 
person-years observed in the Optum HER database for MS patients). Given the established 
autoimmune potential of alemtuzumab, the weighted cumulative evidence is sufficient to support a 
causal association between alemtuzumab and AIH. 
It is well known from clinical practice that common autoimmune disorders tend to coexist in the same 
subject and to cluster in families. Autoimmune thyroid diseases, comprising the two main entities 
Hashimoto’s thyroiditis and Graves’ disease, are the most common autoimmune diseases and are often 
observed together with other autoimmune diseases. The occurrence of two or more diseases in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 17/37 
 
 
 
same patient is often referred to as polyautoimmunity. Without proving causality, the association 
between autoimmune thyroid diseases and other autoimmune diseases seems well substantiated 10.  
Risk Minimization 
Given that the evidence is sufficient to support a causal association between alemtuzumab and AIH, it 
is considered necessary to extend the monthly laboratory monitoring in the follow-up period of 
Lemtrada infusions to include also liver transaminases even though it is known that even frequent 
monitoring of transaminases may not avoid development of AIH and a serious course of hepatitis in all 
cases. The product information will be updated. 
2.3.3.2.  Autoimmune disorders  
Pathomechanism 
After alemtuzumab treatment, T- and B-cell reconstitution begins in the first month after treatment, 
with B-cells repopulating more rapidly than T-cells. Although the mechanism behind development of 
autoimmunity after alemtuzumab treatment is not well understood, the depletion and repopulation 
patterns of various lymphocyte subsets have been studied extensively. The development of secondary 
autoimmunity may depend not only on a recovery or altered ratios of particular immune cells or 
subsets of immune cells but also on a complex interaction between different subsets through altered 
clonal diversity as well as an imbalance between thymopoiesis versus homeostatic proliferation, which 
occurs in a subset of patients. 
Time to onset of autoimmunity following Lemtrada infusions 
Data from long term use of alemtuzumab in MS in cohorts of patients treated in the UK prior to 
marketing authorization and in extensions of the Phase 2 and 3 pivotal studies support that the current 
recommendation of monthly monitoring until 48 months after the last treatment course is 
proportionate for the detection of serious autoimmune events in the majority of patients, however, 
single cases of autoimmune disorders occurred after these period. Tuohy et al followed 87 patients 
treated with alemtuzumab in an investigator-led study in Cambridge, UK, from 1999 to 2012 11. The 
median follow-up period was 7 years with a range of 33 to 144 months. Clinical autoimmune disease 
developed in 41 of 86 patients (48%, 1 patient was omitted from the total because of pre-existing 
thyroid disease). Autoimmunity was not associated with the number of alemtuzumab treatment 
courses administered (p = 0.457, Mann–Whitney U test). Thyroid autoimmunity developed in 35 of 86 
(41%), of which 22/35 patients experienced hyperthyroidismus (Graves’ disease). Three patients 
(3.5%) developed ITP, of which one patient developed Graves’ disease 12 months after the first 
alemtuzumab infusion and ITP 43 months after the third cycle. Other autoimmune diseases seen were 
1 case each of asymptomatic autoimmune neutropenia, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, and 
Goodpasture syndrome requiring renal transplantation. Occurrence of autoimmune disease was most 
frequent during the first 3 years after first treatment, with the vast majority of autoimmune diseases 
occurring within 48 months after the last treatment, as seen in the figure below.  
10 Bliddal S et al., Recent advances in understanding autoimmune thyroid disease: the tallest tree in the forest of 
polyautoimmunity. F1000Research 2017, 6(F1000 Faculty Rev):1776 Last updated: 28 SEP 2017 
11 Tuohy O, Costelloe L, Hill-Cawthorne G, Bjornson I, Harding K, Robertson N, et al. Alemtuzumab treatment of multiple 
sclerosis: long-term safety and efficacy. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;86(2):208-15 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 18/37 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Time to occurrence of clinical autoimmunity from first and most recent 
alemtuzumab treatment (Tuohy et al (2015)) 
Willis et al 12 identified a cohort of 100 MS patients at 3 sites in the UK who had been treated with 
alemtuzumab since 2000 and followed them for 607 patient–years. Fifty-one autoimmune disease 
diagnoses were made in 47 patients. The thyroid gland was the most common site of autoimmunity, 
with 35% patients affected. Three patients developed ITP, and 13 other autoimmunity. Mean time to 
development of autoimmune disease was 995 days (median: 898; range: 30 to 3180 days) following 
the first treatment and a mean of 578 days (median: 394; range: 0 to 3180 days) after the most 
recent treatment. The risk of developing secondary autoimmunity was greatest in the 5 years following 
the first dose of alemtuzumab; 3 cases (all thyroid autoimmune disease) were observed after this 
time.  
Review of long term safety data from the extension studies (CAMMS03409 and TOPAZ) of the 2 pivotal 
trials CAMMS323 and CAMMS324, indicated that the thyroid AE incidence peaked in Year 3 and 
declined subsequently through Year 8; cumulative incidence in Years 1 to 8 was 46.0% for thyroid AEs 
and 6.4% for serious thyroid AEs. The exclusion criteria of these studies should be taken into account 
when interpreting results (see section below). 
Risk Minimisation 
Cases of different autoimmune disorders continue to be reported with alemtuzumab in the literature. 
From the pivotal studies, it is known that autoimmune thyroidal disorders after Lemtrada treatment 
are very common while ITP and anti-GBM nephropathy are infrequent. This is also supported by 
12 Willis MD, Harding KE, Pickersgill TP, Wardle M, Pearson OR, Scolding NJ, et al. Alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis: Long 
term follow-up in a multi-centre cohort. Mult Scler. 2016 Aug;22(9):1215-23. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 19/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
literature data (42% of alemtuzumab treated patients with thyroid disorders13). Graves’ disease 
comprises the most common cause of thyroid dysfunction14, 15. The frequency of all different non 
thyroidal autoimmune disorders after Lemtrada treatment is hard to estimate. In a study by Willis et al 
a cohort of 100 MS patients treated with Lemtrada and with a mean follow up of 6.1 years was 
identified. Prior to treatment all patients had normal thyroid function tests. In line with previous 
findings, after Lemtrada treatment 35% were affected by autoimmunity of the thyroid gland but also 
13 other autoimmune disorders were diagnosed. 
In the context of this procedure, reports describing poly-autoimmunity have been noted. For example, 
9/11 cases with biopsy proven AIH had pre-existing or had developed autoimmune thyroid conditions 
prior to the development of AIH. These data indicate that autoimmune propensity and the potential for 
poly-autoimmunity are important factors to take into account for minimising the risk of autoimmune 
conditions associated with Lemtrada.  
As there is no biomarker to identify patients at higher risk for serious autoimmune conditions following 
Lemtrada administration, the only possibility to minimize the risk is to avoid treatment in patients 
potentially vulnerable for (poly)autoimmunity, e.g. patients with pre-existing autoimmune disease 
(other than MS). In addition, patients who experience another autoimmune disease following Lemtrada 
administration should not be re-treated.   
The MAH is of the opinion that contraindicating patients with another concomitant autoimmune 
disease, and those who develop additional autoimmune conditions following Lemtrada therapy will lead 
to the exclusion of a high percentage of patients including patients with fluctuating TSH levels which 
may result in incomplete treatment courses. The MAH performed a post hoc analyses of patients 
enrolled in the Lemtrada long-term extension studies (CAMMS03409 and LPS13649) with pre-existing, 
potentially autoimmune related thyroid conditions and an analysis of patients who developed a thyroid 
disorder after alemtuzumab and subsequently have been re-treated. Based on these data the MAH is of 
the opinion that there is no evidence of a higher frequency of a second additional autoimmunity.  
Long term data from the extension studies (CAMMS03409 and TOPAZ) of the pivotal trials CAMMS323 
and CAMMS 324 provide opportunity to assess long-term safety. However, the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria in these studies influence the final safety concerns, and the possibility to assess this aspect of 
co-morbid autoimmunity. In the CARE-MS I study (study 323) and in the CARE-MS II study (study 
324) significant autoimmune diseases (including, but not limited to immune cytopenia, rheumatoid 
arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, other connective tissue disorders, vasculitis, inflammatory 
bowel disease and severe psoriasis) and patients with anti-thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) receptor 
(TSHR) antibodies (above LLN) were excluded from the studies.. And in CAMMS 223 patients with a 
history of thyroid autoimmune disease and those with a history of significant autoimmune disease (e.g. 
inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes, lupus and severe asthma) were excluded. Exposure to certain 
immune-suppressive and immune-modulating agents was also an exclusion criterion. 
The MAH also presented additional information from the ongoing, single-arm, prospective observational 
post authorisation safety study (PASS OBS 13432). At the data cut-off approximately 8% of enrolled 
patients had baseline co-morbid autoimmune events. There were 14.9 % of patients with baseline non-
MS autoimmune comorbidity who developed at least one post-baseline autoimmune (AI) event and 
14.1 % of patients without additional baseline autoimmune comorbidity developed at least one post-
13 Pariani N, et al., Alemtuzumab-Induced Thyroid Dysfunction Exhibits Distinctive Clinical and Immunological Features. J 
Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Aug;103(8):3010-3018 
14 Scappaticcio et al. Alemtuzumab-induced thyroid events in multiple sclerosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Journal of Endocrinological Investigation. August 2019 
15 Tuohy O, Costelloe L, Hill-Cawthorne G, Bjornson I, Harding K, Robertson N, et al. Alemtuzumab treatment of multiple 
sclerosis: long-term safety and efficacy. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;86(2):208-15 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 20/37 
 
 
 
 
baseline autoimmune event. No incidences were provided. Considering that the average duration of 
follow-up was 1.7 years at the data cut-off April 2019, a number of autoimmune events may still be 
expected to occur due to Lemtrada treatment (see Willis et al, Tuohy et al). This might also explain the 
lower percentage of secondary autoimmunity at the data-cut off compared to other studies. Thus, it 
can be concluded that the data presented by the MAH did not provide robust evidence that patients 
with pre-existing co-morbid autoimmunity are not at increased risk of developing further autoimmunity 
disorders post-treatment.  
It is acknowledged that autoimmunity is multifactorial including genetic and environmental factors. It is 
also well known that common autoimmune disorders tend to coexist in the same subject and to cluster 
in families. Boelaert et al 16 performed a cross-sectional multicenter study of 3286 caucasian subjects 
(2791 with Graves’ disease and 495 with Hashimoto´s thyroiditis). The frequency of another 
autoimmune disorder was approximately 10% in Graves’ disease and 14% in Hashimoto´s thyroiditis 
index cases. These numbers indicate a heightened incidence of a second additional autoimmune 
disorder in patients with autoimmune thyroidal disease. From a safety perspective these numbers 
cannot be disregarded. 
Despite warnings and precautions in section 4.4 of the SmPC an increased number of previously known 
as well as unknown autoimmune adverse reactions of Lemtrada continued to be reported. Many of 
these reports describe life- long diseases and some of them severe and even fatal. The mechanisms 
are not fully understood and no biomarkers have been identified. Thus, several of these serious 
adverse events of Lemtrada are unpredictable and largely unavoidable. Given the outstanding 
uncertainties regarding adequate risk minimization, exclusion of the most vulnerable patients is 
considered to be the only reasonable risk minimization measure at present. Thus, a contraindication in 
patients with other concomitant autoimmune diseases is necessary to decrease the risk of developing 
serious or even fatal autoimmune adverse reactions following Lemtrada treatment. 
An analysis of data of TTO of autoimmune events from post marketing data and the long-term clinical 
program supports the notion that the currently recommended 48-month monitoring period (after the 
most recent alemtuzumab infusion) is adequate to monitor the majority of patients. However, patients 
and physicians should be made aware of the potential onset of autoimmune disorders after the 48 
months period.   
2.3.3.3.  Vasculitis 
Anti-GBM (glomerular basement membrane) vasculitis cases were excluded from the qualitative 
analysis as these represent an already known risk of Lemtrada.  
A search of vasculitis cases in clinical studies found 4 cases of  vasculitis (excluding the anti-GBM 
cases) including 1 fatal case in a patient also  with intracerebral haemorrhage and confounding factors 
occurring more than 2 years after their  fifth cycle of alemtuzumab. 
The review of the MAH’s pharmacovigilance database revealed 9 cases of vasculitis meeting the 
definition, occurring within the timeframe of ≤30 days post infusion of alemtuzumab. Of the 9 cases 
with TTO within 30 days, 2 cases occurred within 1 day, with the  majority of cases occurring between 7 
and 10 days. Six out of nine events occurred during first treatment course (cycle 1). Six of the 9 cases 
had no confirmed diagnosis of vasculitis. The 3 cases with a confirmatory diagnosis had 
leukocytoplastic vasculitis verified by a skin biopsy. The reported cases of vasculitis diagnosis are 
16 Boelaert K, et al., Prevalence and Relative Risk of Other Autoimmune Diseases in Subjects with Autoimmune Thyroid 
Disease. The American Journal of Medicine (2010) 123, 183.e1-183.e9. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 21/37 
 
 
 
 
confounded by concomitant mediations such as NSAIDs that are known to cause reactions including 
vasculitis pathology, and in cases where such medications are not reported, there is a possibility that 
those cases are still confounded. Use of NSAIDs and other analgesic/antipyretics after alemtuzumab 
infusion for symptomatic control of infusion-associated reactions is a common practice.  
The weighted cumulative evidence is at present insufficient to suggest a causal association between 
alemtuzumab and events of vasculitis. This potential risk should be closely monitored and the MAH is 
expected to submit cumulative reviews and discuss vasculitis in the next PSURs. 
2.3.3.4.  Autoimmune-mediated CNS disease 
Cases of severely exacerbated central nervous system (CNS) inflammation have been described in 
patients with MS under treatment with alemtuzumab17,18,19. The MAH reviewed 13 cases thereof six 
case reports of autoimmune-mediated CNS disease related to the use of alemtuzumab have  been 
published. Five cases involved treatment of  patients with RRMS, with one instance of neuromyelitis 
optica treatment with alemtuzumab. The authors suggest B-cell dependent autoimmunity related to 
different rates of B- and T cell repopulation. Although the case reports are a matter of concern, 
further evidence is needed to conclude whether CNS autoimmunity might be related to alemtuzumab 
or whether these cases reflect breakthrough disease. It is noted that it may be difficult in the clinical 
setting to differentiate symptoms of autoimmune-mediated disease from the MS natural history. 
Therefore, it is likely that CNS adverse events are under-reported.   
In addition, isolated reports of other CNS complications in Lemtrada patients have been reviewed. 
Notably, there were two case reports of necrotizing encephalopathy (one case with concomitant 
autoimmune haemolytic anaemia with fatal outcome) and one case of autoimmune encephalitis.  
Currently available information is insuficcient to draw a conclusion on causality at this stage, but 
CNS inflammation temporally related to Lemtrada should be monitored in periodic safety update 
reports (PSURs). 
2.3.3.5.  Other autoimmune reactions 
A retrospective cohort study of MS patients compared to matched controls in the US Optum Database 
confirmed that MS patients have a 25% higher rate of being diagnosed with type 1 diabetes (IRR = 
1.25, 95% CI = 1.08-1.44); a 2-fold higher rate of myositis diagnosis (IRR = 2.17, 95% CI = 2.02-
2.33); and a 2-fold higher rate of sarcoidosis (IRR = 2.11, 95% CI = 1.69-2.62). The results for 
myasthenic syndrome, pneumonitis, and acquired haemophilia A were either not statistically significant 
or there were too few patients with an autoimmune outcome to draw any conclusion.  
This needs however to be closely monitored. Therefore, a comprehensive signal evaluation report 
considering all available evidence for events of diabetes type 1, myasthenic syndrome, myositis, 
sarcoidosis and pneumonitis needs to be included with the next PSUR.  
During the Article 20 procedure a new signal was identified and analysed. Cases of acquired 
haemophilia A (anti-factor VIII antibodies) have been reported in both clinical trial and post-marketing 
setting. Patients typically present with spontaneous subcutaneous hematomas and extensive bruising 
17 Haghikia A, Dentrou CA, Schneider R et al: Severe B-cell-mediated CNS disease secondary to alemtuzumab therapy. 
www.thelancet.com/neurology Vol 16 February 2017 
18 Rinaldi F, Federle L,  Puthenparampil M, et al  Evidence of B-cell dysregulation in severe CNS inflammation after 
alemtuzumab therapy. Neurol Neuroimmunol Neuroinflamm. 2018 Jan; 5(1): e420; Published online 2017 Dec 13. 
doi: 10.1212/NXI.0000000000000420 
19 Barton J, Hardy TA, Riminton S, et al. Tumefactive demyelination following treatment for relapsing multiple sclerosis with 
alemtuzumab. Neurology 2017;88:1004–1006 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 22/37 
 
 
 
 
although haematuria, epistaxis, gastrointestinal or other types of bleeding may occur. The reported 
incidence in the general population is approximately 1.48/million/year. Up to 50% of cases of acquired 
haemophilia may be associated with a variety of clinical conditions. Treatment typically involves 
immunosuppression to eradicate the FVIII inhibitor, as well as haemostatic therapy to control bleeding. 
The reporting rate of acquired haemophilia A after treatment with Lemtrada is considered to be 
substantially higher compared to the background rate and suggests an increased risk which needs to 
be included in the product information.   
Risk minimization 
Information on acquired haemophilia needs to be included in the updated product information. In case 
of spontaneous subcutaneous haematomas and extensive bruising, haematuria, epistaxis, 
gastrointestinal or other types of bleeding a coagulopathy panel including aPTT must be obtained in all 
patients that present with such symptoms. HCPs should educate patients on the signs and symptoms of 
acquired haemophilia A and to seek immediate medical attention, if any of these symptoms are 
observed.  
2.3.3.6.  Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) 
A total of 13 cases of GBS were identified in the MAH’s database. Two of these cases did not meet the 
medical criteria of GBS but were chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Of the 11 
GBS cases in the database, 1 patient had apparently an MS relapse and was treated with steroids but 
neither plasmapheresis nor intravenous immunoglobulin.  
The MAH calculated a reporting rate of 23.5 cases per 100 000 person-years and stated that this is not 
higher than GBS incidence rates of 37.7 per 100 000 patient years which have been observed in 
subjects diagnosed with MS. However, these figures are questionable, as the GBS reporting rate 
mentioned is much higher than the background incidence in the general population (1-2/100 000 
patient years).  
While a conclusion cannot presently be reached on a possible causal association, the potential risk of 
GBS should be re-discussed in the next PSUR, and an updated review should be provided. For the next 
PSUR, the MAH is asked to explore whether it is possible to calculate the background incidence of GBS 
in RRMS patients e.g. in the US Optum Database in order to perform an observed versus expected 
analysis.  
2.3.4.  Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)  
Data analysed 
HLH was identified as a serious risk of alemtuzumab and added to the product information in the last 
PSU. A EudraVigilance search until 20 August 2019 revealed a total of 11 case reports of HLH including 
two cases with fatal outcome. Two reports have been published 20. One report is from the USA and 10 
reports from the EEA. It was noted that one poorly documented case report may be a duplicate. Four 
patients developed additional other autoimmune diseases: 2 patients acquired haemophilia A, one 
patient Evans syndrome and one patient Still syndrome.  
20 Saarela M, Senthil K, Jones J et al. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in 2 patients with multiple sclerosis treated with 
alemtuzumab. Neurology. 2018 May 1;90(18):849-851. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000005420. Epub 2018 Mar 30 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 23/37 
 
 
 
 
Risk Minimization 
There are limited options to minimise the risk of this rare, life-threatening adverse event that occurs 
long after treatment. Information on HLH is already present in the product information and additional 
information should be provided in the educational materials for Lemtrada. 
2.3.5.  Fatalities 
A search of the MAH database retrieved 246 cases. In the 246 cases (of which 169 cases were solicited 
and 77 cases were unsolicited), a total of 1890 events were reported. These 246 cases include, 
incidentally, a small number of cases outside of the adult multiple sclerosis (MS) indication (e.g. 
compassionate use cases for other indications, off-label use, and/or misdiagnosed MS) as well as some 
duplicate reports. The age distribution of patients with fatalities was 1 day (exposure during pregnancy) 
to 77 years, with an average age of 48.8 years. The highest number of fatalities occurred in the age 
group 36-50 years of age (n= 78 case reports), thus in a quite young patient population.  
Mortality rate 
According to the MAH, the mortality rate in clinical trials (CTs) with alemtuzumab was 0.17 per 100 
patient-years. The estimated post-marketing mortality rate is currently 0.42 per 100 patient years. 
These data have considerable uncertainties, due to the nature of spontaneously reported data, as well 
as estimations f post marketing patient exposure. The distribution of reported fatalities differs between 
the regions (see table 5).  
Table 5 Distribution of reported fatalities reported in association with Lemtrada by region 
Regions 
Cumulative no. of 
No. of fatality cases 
Mortality reporting 
patients treated with 
alemtuzumab for MS 
EU 
US 
12777 
7441 
Rest of the world 
5074 
51 
164 
31 
rate 
0.4% 
2.2% 
0.6% 
Of the 169 solicited cases, 20 were from Europe, 23 from Rest of World, and 126 from the US. Of the 
77 unsolicited cases, 32 were from Europe, 7 from Rest of  World, and 38 from the US. The 
distribution of solicited and unsolicited case reports among regions shows a higher volume of 
solicited  cases in the US. 77 % of USA and rest of world reports and 39 % of European reports are 
solicited reports. The number of unsolicited cases  is more evenly distributed across regions (49% 
US, 42% EU, and 10% Rest of World); however,  the highest number was in the US, although there 
are only approximately half as many Lemtrada-treated patients in the US (n= 7441 patients 
treated) as in the EU (12777 patients). Overall, these data support the notion that the increased 
frequency and variety of interactions with patients and HCPs in the US via patient support programs 
and REMS may be  partly responsible for increased reports in the US. This may also be suggestive of 
underreporting in Europe.  
Available data from the Lemtrada controlled clinical trials as well as real-world evidence studies were 
reviewed to determine differences in the patient populations. Baseline characteristics of patients in 
various studies, by region (US versus EU) indicate that US patients in the post-marketing settings are 
older and have a longer disease duration compared to the EU post-marketing setting. The 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 24/37 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics of the US Lemtrada patients may put them more at risk for serious adverse events, 
including fatalities, independent of any specific MS treatment. 
Literature data also indicate potential differences in the mortality rate between regions and countries 
with a higher mortality rate in the USA (Kaufmann DW 2014) compared to some EU countries such as 
France21  or Sweden22. These factors may contribute to the observed differences, however it is difficult 
to determine to what extent this might impact or skew observed reporting rates.   
Fatal cases with time to onset within 30 days of last infusion 
Of 246 fatal cases, information on time to onset was reported for 122 cases and was unknown for  124 
cases. When the TTO from last infusion was reported, it ranged from 0 days to 6.5 years. In 15 cases 
with TTO from last infusion, there were 24 fatal events reported. Events reported more than once were 
cardiac arrest and sepsis, which were both reported twice. Seventeen cases nominally had TTO from 
last infusion reported within 30 days of last infusion (Table 6). 
Table 6 Fatal events by System Organ Class with time to onset within 30 days of last 
infusion 
Event SOC 
Event PT 
Last dose to onset 
Total 
BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM 
DISORDERS 
CARDIAC DISORDERS 
GENERAL DISORDERS AND 
ADMINISTRATION SITE 
CONDITIONS 
HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS 
INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS 
INJURY, POISONING AND 
PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS 
NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS 
PANCYTOPENIA 
27 days 15 hrs 
ATRIAL FLUTTER 
  CARDIAC ARREST 
  CARDIAC ARREST 
MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 
FATIGUE 
MULTIPLE ORGAN 
DYSFUNCTION 
HEPATIC FAILURE 
BRONCHOPULMONARY 
ASPERGILLOSIS 
MENINGITIS LISTERIA 
PNEUMONIA 
pneumonia necrotising 
SEPSIS 
  SEPSIS 
STREPTOCOCCAL 
BACTERAEMIA 
FALL 
BRAIN INJURY 
CEREBRAL HAEMORRHAGE 
25 min 
2 days 
28 days 
27 days 
4. 2 days 
14 days 
14 days 
14 days 
12 days 
11 days 
14 days 
13 days 15 hrs 19 
min 
13 days 
13 days 
3 days 
3 days 
4 days 
METABOLIC ENCEPHALOPATHY 
27 days 15 hrs 
PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS 
COMPLETED SUICIDE 
PARAESTHESIA 
RENAL AND URINARY 
DISORDERS 
ACUTE KIDNEY INJURY 
RESPIRATORY, THORACIC AND 
MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS 
ACUTE RESPIRATORY 
DISTRESS 
1 day 
9 days 14 hrs 45 
min 
13 days 
27 days 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
21 Leray E, Vukusic S, Debouverie M  et al. Excess Mortality in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis Starts at 20 Years from 
Clinical Onset: Data from a Large-Scale French Observational Study. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 6;10(7):e0132033. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pone.0132033. eCollection 2015 
22 Langer-Gould A. Mortality rates in large US and Swedish rituximab-treated multiple sclerosis  cohorts ECTRIMS 2018; 
231830; 88. https://onlinelibrary.ectrims-  congress.eu/ectrims/2018/ectrims-2018/231830/annette.langer- 
gould.mortality.rates.in.large.us.and.swedish.rituximab-  treated.html?f=media=1*listing=3*browseby=8 (accessed 26 
July 2019) 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 25/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
RESPIRATORY FAILURE 
4 days 
1 
24 
The analysis of these cases with fatal outcome and TTO ≤30 days showed that in several patients, 
causes for death were infections or sepsis due to immunosuppressive conditions in the immediate 
period after alemtuzumab treatment, which is a known risk for alemtuzumab. The young ages of 
patients with fatal adverse events as well as the short latency after alemtuzumab infusion are matters 
of concern.  
Holmøy T et al23 assessed 17 case reports from the EEA with fatal outcome (cut-off 11/2018) based on 
data from EudraVigilance. Four reviewers with clinical and research expertise in MS, neuroimmunology, 
infectious disease and clinical pharmacology reviewed information for 17 fatalities. In 10 of the cases, 
the fatal outcome was assessed as probably (n=9) or possibly (n=1) related to Lemtrada. It is 
worthwhile to note that 6/10 patients (60%) died within the first months after Lemtrada infusion.  
The MAH was asked to evaluate whether the number of fatalities stratified by age and disease severity 
within different time periods might exceed the expected rate. This question could not be sufficiently 
answered. Considering the need to further understand incidence of mortality associated with Lemtrada 
treatment in the EU, better data sources than just spontaneously reported data are desirable. 
Therefore, a post-authorisation safety study needs to be set-up for this purpose (see section 5.1.1 of 
this report).  
2.3.6.  Opportunistic infections 
Data analysed 
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infections were uncovered when searching for hepatitis. A search in the MAH’s 
global pharmacovigilance database with cut-off date of 31 March 2019 identified 4 cases of EBV 
hepatitis. One patient passed away due to multiorgan failure, including disseminated intravascular 
coagulation (DIC). Another case was a patient who developed EBV hepatitis and was treated in the 
intensive care unit with transplantation planned as high urgent rescue trial (but was not transplanted). 
A third case was a 27-year-old female patient who underwent liver transplantation. The last case was a 
woman who developed AIH noted as elevation of transaminases, jaundice, and pruritus. Immunological 
testing was positive for IgG, EBV antibody but also hepatitis B and E antibodies. EBV infections are not 
currently mentioned in the product information but a causal relationship between alemtuzumab 
treatment and EBV reactivation is plausible. 
Risk minimization 
Information regarding EBV reactivation needs to be included in the product information. A cumulative 
review of cases of EBV hepatitis should be presented in the next PSUR. 
2.4.  Conclusion on Safety 
As number of serious, life-threatening and disabling risks associated with Lemtrada have been 
assessed. Myocardial ischaemia, myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular events including arterial 
dissection and haemorrhagic stroke, pulmonary haemorrhage and transient thrombocytopenia have 
been identified as risks in close temporal association with the infusion of alemtuzumab. These events 
may at least partly be related to cytokine release. 
23 Holmoy et al. Adverse events with fatal outcome associated with alemtuzumab treatment in multiple sclerosis. BMC Res 
Notes. 2019 Aug 12;12(1):497. doi: 10.1186/s13104-019-4507-6. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 26/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the review, it has been confirmed that Lemtrada causes secondary autoimmune disease 
including auto-immune hepatitis, thyroiditis, ITP, acquired haemophilia A, nephropathies, cytopenias 
and serious immunological reactions such as HLH. Cases of poly-autoimmunity associated with 
Lemtrada have also been identified. 
During the procedure, also other adverse reactions were identified which are also considered related to 
Lemtrada such as EBV re-activation. 
One general characteristic of alemtuzumab which impacts on its safety profile and on risk management 
is the very long treatment effect, and therefore the infrequent administration regimen. Thus, due to 
the long-term effect of alemtuzumab, treatment discontinuation has limited value from a risk 
management perspective.  
No surrogate or biomarker for patients at risk for serious cytokine release or autoimmunity was 
identified. Therefore many of the newly-identified risks associated to Lemtrada are unpredictable and 
largely unavoidable. In such circumstances it is necessary to restrict use of the alemtuzumab to 
patients who can benefit the most from treatment and who may be ready to accept the serious risks 
associated with treatment. This includes not just a restricted therapeutic indication but also 
contraindications in subpopulations anticipated, due to risk factors, to be at higher risk of developing 
the serious adverse reactions.  
3.  Expert consultation  
During the review, PRAC sought the advice of the Scientific Advisory Group Neurology and their 
feedback is described below. 
Question 1 
Based on available evidence, and taking your clinical experience into account, can a 
subgroup of patients with highly active multiple sclerosis be defined who could benefit from 
alemtuzumab treatment and for whom there are few other treatment options or an unmet 
medical need? What is you view on extrapolation of efficacy data obtained in earlier lines of 
treatment, to a later line treatment?  
The SAG experts discussed the potential indication wording24 that would be acceptable and will reflect 
the demonstrated benefits, but take into account the real-life use and the known safety issues with the 
product. They advocated caution, mentioning that by defining recommendations for the use of 
alemtuzumab after “two other DMTs for highly active MS”, the regulatory bodies may over-promote the 
use of other disease-modifying treatments in MS, with well-known long-term risks. Recommending the 
use of other DMTs on the basis of incomplete data confirming that this would indeed lead to an 
improved safety, was not considered as an acceptable way forward by the SAG experts. They 
mentioned that indicating alemtuzumab in a “last line” position without sufficient data to support this 
recommendation may be dangerous, as in that case it may be used in a more vulnerable population, 
where the safety profile of the drug could result in an even worse outcome: patients may still 
experience all the risks, while not having all the benefits of the treatment.  
The SAG experts agreed unanimously that the proposed indication wording is problematic and will not 
be acceptable. An alternative solution would be to not mention “two other DMTs for highly active MS” 
in the indication and to instead focus on factors for “poor prognosis”, while strengthening at the same 
time the risk mitigation measures. Efforts are needed for defining risk minimization measures, and 
24 In the context of the Scientific Advisory Group discussion, the proposed wording for the therapeutic indication was:  adult 
patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at 
least two other disease modifying treatments for highly active MS, or in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis where all other disease modifying treatments are contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 27/37 
 
 
 
 
especially in establishing specialized centres, where the drug should be applied, as this has shown to 
reduce the risks.  
Using the currently approved indication for Tysabri as an example 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/tysabri-epar-product-
information_en.pdf), the experts stated that the failure of only “one DMT” in patients with “highly 
active MS” should be sufficient to allow for alemtuzumab to be used. The experts considered it 
necessary to reinforce the fact that patients and specialists will have to discuss and assess all the 
available options, before using alemtuzumab. The indication should be reflecting the real-life use and 
permit that the drug is used even as a “first-line” treatment in patients that will be eligible. Losing time 
before patients have access to this therapy will result in delaying the best treatment window for a lot 
of them and reduce their chance in getting an optimal disease-modifying effect.  
The position expressed by the patient representatives was that with the proposed indication wording, 
for MS patients of young age and low EDSS it would be impossible to get alemtuzumab before they 
have failed all other DMTs, while in the meantime patients will progress irrevocably in their disease. 
Hence, the representative supported that the patients should have the ability to receive the treatment 
earlier, and not delay due to a prescribed need to fail all other DMTs, which “last-line” indication would 
imply.  
In conclusion, SAG experts agreed that the indication wording should clearly state that alemtuzumab 
should be used in “Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment 
with at least one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or in Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis” (as per the accepted definition). 
In addition, instead of trying to define a sub-group of MS patients in whom the drug should be used, a 
better approach will be to try to impose the gathering of data on risk factors, in order to define the 
patient population in which the treatment should be contraindicated.  
Even though extrapolation of efficacy of alemtuzumab from MS patients in early stages of their disease 
to the ones in a more advanced stage is difficult, based on the available data, the position of the SAG 
experts was that it should still be possible.  
Question 2 
Based on available evidence, could the experts identify any factors that may help predict at-
risk patients for both acute serious infusion related events, as well as autoimmune events? 
The SAG experts considered that, based on the available data, there is no way to define appropriate 
predictive factors for the majority of the serious adverse effects.  
The issue of the observed cases of HLH (hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis) was highlighted by the 
SAG experts and it was recommended that it be further explored through additional studies. It was 
also highlighted that specific studies should be designed by the MAH in order to better understand the 
effect of the cytokine release related side effects on the efficacy of prevention measures (such as 
corticosteroid therapy administered before the treatment initiation). 
Question 3 
Please discuss the effectiveness of the proposed risk minimisation measures in clinical 
practice.  
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 28/37 
 
 
 
 
 
The SAG experts could provide no clear answer on RMM effectiveness, because there are no data. They 
highlighted that it should be recommended that more information is gathered on the efficacy of 
corticosteroid use before treatment. There is a strong recommendation that the patients should be 
treated, monitored and followed-up in highly specialized centres.  
Regarding a proposal to keep patients hospitalised for up to 5 days after the end of the infusion, it was 
agreed that there are no data suggesting that this will be beneficial, at the same time it is considered 
impractical. The patient representative reinforced that it is not feasible to expect patients to stay in 
hospital 5 days after infusion.  
Again, the SAG stressed the necessity for the MAH to promote studies assessing the efficacy of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
4.  Benefit-risk balance 
The efficacy of alemtuzumab in RRMS patients across multiple parameters of the disease is well 
established and maintained over long term follow up. This level of efficacy is present across a wide 
range of patient populations, as evidenced by the consistency of findings across various subgroups of 
participants in alemtuzumab clinical studies. 
As part of the current review, a number of serious, life-threatening and disabling risks associated with 
Lemtrada have been assessed. Acute coronary syndrome and cerebrovascular events including arterial 
dissection and haemorrhagic stroke, pulmonary haemorrhage and transient thrombocytopenia have 
been identified as risks in close temporal association with the infusion of alemtuzumab. These risks are 
considered to be related to cytokine release syndrome, which has been described in the literature for 
alemtuzumab25,26. 
Following the review, it has been reconfirmed that Lemtrada causes secondary autoimmune disease 
including auto-immune hepatitis, thyroiditis, ITP, acquired haemophilia A, nephropathies, cytopenias 
and serious immunological reactions such as HLH. Cases of poly-autoimmunity associated with 
Lemtrada have also been identified. 
During the procedure, also other new adverse reactions were identified which are also considered 
related to Lemtrada such as EBV re-activation. 
One general characteristic of alemtuzumab which impacts on its safety profile and on risk management 
is the very long treatment effect, and thereby the infrequent administration regimen. Thus, due to the 
long-term effect of alemtuzumab, treatment discontinuation has limited value from a risk management 
perspective.  
No surrogate or biomarker for patients at risk for serious cytokine release or autoimmunity was 
identified. Therefore many of the newly-identified risks associated to Lemtrada are unpredictable and 
largely unavoidable. In such circumstances it is necessary to restrict use of the alemtuzumab to 
patients who can benefit the most from treatment and who may be ready to accept the serious risks 
associated with treatment. This includes not just a restricted therapeutic indication but also 
contraindications in subpopulations anticipated, due to risk factors, to be at higher risk of developing 
the serious adverse reactions.  
25 Wing MG et al.  Mechanism of first-dose cytokine-release syndrome by CAMPATH 1-H: involvement of CD16 
(FcgammaRIII) and CD11a/CD18 (LFA-1) on NK cells. J Clin Invest 1996;98(12):2819-2826 
26 Thomas K, Eisele J, Rodriguez-Leal FA, Hainke U, Ziemssen T. Acute effects of  alemtuzumab infusion in patients with 
active relapsing-remitting MS. Neurol Neuroimmunol  Neuroinflamm. 2016 Apr 29;3(3):e228 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 29/37 
 
 
 
 
In this context, and taking also into account the advice of the SAG, PRAC concluded that Lemtrada 
should be indicated as a single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
With this conclusion, PRAC acknowledges that early initiation of high-efficacy DMTs in patients with 
highly active (aggressive) or rapidly evolving RRMS is increasingly viewed as a strategy to prevent or 
postpone irreversible damage that occurs early in the disease course27. Recent studies of RRMS with 
long-term follow-up have shown that disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) reduce the proportion of 
patients who progress to SPMS compared to the proportion of untreated patients who progress.  
Furthermore, when selecting the most appropriate and effective treatment for the patient, the safety 
profile and the possibility to manage risks effectively should also be taken into consideration. 
Vulnerable patient groups such as patients with severe active infections until complete resolution, 
uncontrolled hypertension, a history of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries, of stroke, 
angina pectoris or myocardial infarction and patients with known coagulopathy, on anti-platelet or anti-
coagulant therapy, should be contraindicated. Patients with other concomitant autoimmune diseases 
(besides MS) should also be contraindicated to minimise the risk of development of additional 
autoimmune disorders. 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of patients before, during and after the infusion of 
alemtuzumab, rapid diagnosis and prompt and adequate treatment of the above-mentioned risks, the 
infusion of alemtuzumab should take place in a hospital with availability of experts and adequate 
equipment to manage the risks. The MAH proposed to include also specialised infusion centres with 
ready access to intensive care. Specialists from other medical disciplines (e.g. cardiologists) and 
equipment for timely diagnosis and management of adverse reactions however requires, in the view of 
PRAC, a hospital setting. The PRAC considered a recommendation for a longer follow-up period in 
hospital (for up to 5 days after the last infusion) to allow for prompt identification and management of 
serious adverse reactions that may occur. However it was ultimately considered that this long 
hospitalisation may not be feasible and that, as highlighted by the SAG, there is limited data to 
indicate it will have a substantial impact in the management of post-infusion adverse reactions.  
New infusion instructions are also proposed to allow early identification and management of serious 
adverse reactions temporally associated with infusion. In addition to close monitoring of cardiovascular 
function before, during and after the infusion, this also includes new recommendations for platelet 
count measurement during the infusion cycle and for post-infusion monthly liver transaminase testing.   
Currently, safety follow-up of patients is recommended from initiation of the first treatment course and 
until 48 months after the last treatment course. However, in individual cases autoimmune conditions 
may occur or be diagnosed later so healthcare professionals should be aware of this possibility. 
Cases of pulmonary embolism, vasculitis, CNS autoimmune disease and GBS have been reported. The 
current evidence is insufficient to conclude on a causal relationship with Lemtrada. There are 
uncertainties about a potential causal relationship with a number of other autoimmune adverse events 
27 Fernandez O et al, 2017 Is there a change of paradigm towards more effective treatment early in the course of apparent 
high-risk MS? Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2017 Oct;17:75-83. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 30/37 
 
 
 
 
 
reported in temporal association with Lemtrada, and these will have to continue to be closely 
monitored in the future. 
In future PSURs, the MAH is expected to submit cumulative reviews and discuss the following safety 
concerns: vasculitis, CNS inflammation, GBS, diabetes type 1, myasthenic syndrome, myositis, 
sarcoidosis, GBS, pneumonitis and EBV hepatitis. 
A matter of concern is the post-marketing reporting rate of fatalities, including those with short latency 
after alemtuzumab infusion. The relative young age of patients who died within a short period (30 
days) from Lemtrada treatment is also noted. A post authorisation safety study is needed to address 
these concerns. 
A study is also needed to assess the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures adopted during 
this review. Considering the serious and unpredictable nature of the newly-identified adverse reactions, 
it is important to understand whether the newly implemented measures are adhered to in clinical 
practice.   
The MAH for Lemtrada will also disseminate a DHPC to inform healthcare professionals of the outcome 
of this review, and the educational material for both healthcare professionals and patients will be 
updated. 
In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada remains favourable 
subject to changes to the product information, the educational materials and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities described above. As a consequence, PRAC recommended the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation for Lemtrada. 
5.  Risk management 
5.1.  Pharmacovigilance activities 
5.1.1.  Non- interventional studies  
In order to further address concerns about mortality, mortality rates will be analysed using data from 
existing EU Registries. This analysis will likely include the external comparison cohort study (ECCS) 
that is complementary to the ongoing Lemtrada PASS (OBS13434) study. The ECCS includes at 
present data from registries from two EU Member States and participation of other countries continues 
to be investigated. In an effort to increase the currently relatively low sample size, it may be possible 
to utilize data from the alemtuzumab PASS (OBS13434) which intends to include up to 3000 patients 
treated with Lemtrada.  
A study is also needed to assess the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures adopted during 
this review. Considering the serious and unpredictable nature of the newly-identified adverse reactions, 
it is important to understand whether these new measures will be adhered to in clinical practice. This 
drug utilisation study may be performed using data from EU MS registries. 
PRAC recommended the following conditions to the marketing authorisation of Lemtrada: 
Description 
Due date 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to investigate 
Q3 2024 
the incidence of mortality in patients treated with Lemtrada compared to a 
relevant patient population, the MAH shall submit the results of a post- 
authorisation safety study comparing Lemtrada to an adequate control. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 31/37 
 
 
 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to assess 
Q3 2024 
compliance with the therapeutic indication and effectiveness of measures to 
minimise the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular adverse events in close 
temporal association with Lemtrada infusion and immune-mediated adverse 
reactions, the MAH shall submit the results of a drug utilisation study. 
Submission of the study protocols to PRAC in accordance with Article 107n(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
should occur by July 2020.  
In addition, the MAH shall submit an updated version of the Risk Management Plan incorporating all 
amendments and additional activities defined in this procedure, for assessment within 1 month from 
the Commission Decision. 
5.2.  Risk minimisation measures  
5.2.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information are necessary in order to minimise the risks associated with the use of Lemtrada. These 
changes include amendments to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
The indication was restricted to treatment of highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) 
for the following patient groups: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
In addition, the PRAC considered that Lemtrada use should be contraindicated in patients with: 
•  Severe active infection until complete resolution. 
•  Uncontrolled hypertension. 
•  History of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries. 
•  History of stroke.  
•  History of angina pectoris or myocardial infarction. 
•  Known coagulopathy, on anti-platelet or anti-coagulant therapy. 
•  Other concomitant autoimmune diseases (besides MS)  
Further warnings and precautions of use relating to the risk(s) associated with the use of Lemtrada 
were also included and other important information harmonised. 
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 32/37 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.2.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communication/Communication plan 
The PRAC agreed on the wording of a Direct Healthcare Professional Communication including 
information on: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The revised therapeutic indication of Lemtrada  
The additional contraindications  
The need for Lemtrada to only be administered in hospital setting with ready access to 
intensive case  
The need for patients to be monitored for autoimmune disorders for at least 48 months after 
the last infusion and be advised that these disorders may also occur later than 48 months after 
the last infusion 
•  Revised infusion instructions intended to reduce serious reactions temporally associated with 
Lemtrada infusion.  
5.2.3.  Educational materials 
The educational materials for Lemtrada will be revised and updated in accordance with the outcome of 
this procedure. Key messages for the Healthcare professionals’ guide, prescriber checklist, patient 
guide and patient alert card have been updated in annex II of the product information. 
6.  Conditions to the marketing authorisations 
The PRAC recommended the following conditions to the marketing authorisation of Lemtrada: 
Description 
Due date 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to investigate 
Q3 2024 
the incidence of mortality in patients treated with Lemtrada compared to a 
relevant patient population, the MAH shall submit the results of a post- 
authorisation safety study comparing Lemtrada to an adequate control. 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to assess 
Q3 2024 
compliance with the therapeutic indication and effectiveness of measures to 
minimise the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular adverse events in close 
temporal association with Lemtrada infusion and immune-mediated adverse 
reactions, the MAH shall submit the results of a drug utilisation study. 
In addition, in accordance with Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, Lemtrada will be included in 
the list of products for additional monitoring. The relevant information as well as the pictogram (black 
triangle) will be added in the product information. 
7.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for Lemtrada. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 33/37 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
PRAC reviewed data currently available from post-marketing setting and from clinical trials on 
fatal cases, cardiovascular adverse events in close temporal association with Lemtrada 
infusions and immune-mediated diseases, including data provided in writing and at an oral 
explanation. PRAC also considered the views expressed by the neurology scientific advisory 
group. 
PRAC concluded that myocardial ischaemia, myocardial infarction, haemorrhagic stroke, 
dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries, pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage and 
thrombocytopenia may occur in close temporal association with the infusion of Lemtrada. PRAC 
also concluded that alemtuzumab is associated with immune-mediated diseases such as 
autoimmune hepatitis, haemophilia A and haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), which 
can happen with a delay of months to years after the latest treatment. PRAC noted that these 
risks, which are serious and which can in some cases have a fatal outcome, are largely 
unpredictable. 
•  As a consequence, PRAC recommended that treatment with Lemtrada should be restricted to 
patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for the following patient 
groups: 
o  patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with 
at least one disease modifying therapy, or  
o  patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 
or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing 
lesions on brain MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a 
previous recent MRI. 
• 
Lemtrada should also be contraindicated in patients with: 
o 
severe active infections until complete resolution,  
o  uncontrolled hypertension,  
o  history of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries,  
o  history of stroke,  
o  history of angina pectoris or myocardial infarction,  
o 
o 
coagulopathy, on antiplatelet or anti-coagulant therapy  
concomitant autoimmune diseases other than multiple sclerosis.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Furthermore, PRAC recommended that Lemtrada should only be administered in a hospital 
setting with ready access to intensive care. 
PRAC also made additional recommendations for monitoring of patients before, during and 
after infusion to ensure timely diagnosis and management of adverse reactions. 
The PRAC considered that given the serious and unpredictable nature of the risks, and that 
effective risk minimisation is key to support a positive benefit-risk balance, a drug utilisation 
study is necessary to assess effectiveness of risk minimisation measures. 
PRAC also considered that the data currently available on mortality incidence is limited and 
therefore the MAH shall investigate the incidence of mortality in patients treated with Lemtrada 
compared with a relevant patient population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 34/37 
 
 
 
In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada remains favourable 
subject to changes to the product information, the educational materials and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities described above. 
As a consequence, PRAC recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Lemtrada. 
Appendix 1 
Divergent position 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 35/37 
 
 
 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/A-20/1483/C/3718/0028 
Lemtrada (INN/active substance: alemtuzumab) 
Divergent statement 
The undersigned PRAC members disagree with the recommendation of PRAC for the following 
Lemtrada indication: 
LEMTRADA is indicated as a single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
This recommendation is based on reported cases of pulmonary embolism, vasculitis, CNS autoimmune 
disease, GBS, myocardial ischemia, myocardial infarction, cervicocephalic arterial dissection, cerebral 
haemorrhage, as well as a number of other autoimmune adverse events reported in temporal 
association with Lemtrada. A matter of concern is the higher than expected post-marketing reporting 
rate of fatalities compared to clinical trials including those with short latency after alemtuzumab 
infusion, and the relative young age of patients who died within a short time (30 days) after Lemtrada 
treatment without any known risk factor. 
Due to several remaining uncertainties on the risks associated with Lemtrada use, the undersigned 
PRAC members consider that a more restrictive indication is needed, in line with the provisional 
measures introduced following the start of Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, 
initiated on 10 April 2019. The new risks assessed during the referral are considered unpredictable in 
the majority of patients treated with Lemtrada. In the opinion of the undersigned PRAC members it is 
of special concern that no risk minimization measures (RMM) have been identified that can prevent, 
modify or reduce the occurrence of the severe risks associated with Lemtrada treatment. Although 
contraindications are introduced to prevent the prescription to the most vulnerable patients and 
recommendations to implement additional clinical and laboratory monitoring will be made as a 
conclusion of the referral , it is still not known whether the proposed risk minimization measures could 
significantly reduce or prevent the newly identified risks and protect patients. In the opinion of the 
undersigned PRAC members the only reasonable RMM would be to limit the number of patients 
exposed to Lemtrada. Therefore, Lemtrada indication should be restricted to: “adult patients with 
highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), despite a full and adequate course of 
treatment with at least two other disease modifying treatments (DMTs), or in patients with highly 
active RRMS where any other DMT is contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable”. 
The undersigned PRAC members have considered as well that currently there are available more 
therapeutic alternatives for the treatment of highly active RRMS than those available when 
alemtuzumab was authorised, and their position takes also into account the fact that contrarily to other 
DMTs which could be interrupted if adverse reactions occur, Lemtrada has a particular administration 
schedule (once a year) that makes this measure not possible to apply. 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 36/37 
 
 
 
 
 
Once more information is gathered through the studies imposed to the MAH as category 1 studies, and 
less uncertainties remain, Lemtrada indication could be reconsidered. Meanwhile, in view of the serious 
and life-threatening risks associated with alemtuzumab, indication should be kept as stated in the 
provisional measures taken by the European Commission in April 2019. 
PRAC Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Eva A. Segovia 
Ghania Chamouni 
David Olsen 
Jean Michel Dogné 
31 October 2019 
31 October 2019 
31 October 2019 
31 October 2019 
Assessment report  
EMA/682560/2019  
Page 37/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
