16 April 2019 
EMA/249094/2019 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report on provisional measures 
Procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Lemtrada 
INN/active substance: alemtuzumab 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-20/1483/C/3718/0028 
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC with all information of a 
commercially confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Data on safety ................................................................................................... 4 
3. Benefit-risk balance ................................................................................ 5 
4. Risk management .................................................................................... 5 
4.1. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................. 5 
4.1.1. Amendments to the product information ............................................................. 5 
4.1.2. Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication plan ...................... 6 
5. Grounds for Recommendation ................................................................. 6 
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
During the assessment of the periodic safety update report (PSUSA) for Lemtrada 
(EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/201809), the following new emerging and serious safety concerns were 
highlighted in addition to the known safety profile of alemtuzumab, which raised major concerns to the 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC):  
- Fatal cases: Several fatal cases were identified during the PSUSA procedure, which indicate that the 
current recommendations for monitoring may be insufficient. 
- Cardiovascular adverse events in close temporal association with Lemtrada infusions (e.g. cardiac 
ischaemia and myocardial infarction, ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke, arterial dissection, 
pulmonary haemorrhage and embolism, vasculitis and thrombocytopenia), including a possible 
mechanistic relation to these adverse events. 
- Immune-mediated diseases such as auto-immune hepatitis, hepatic injury, auto-immune-mediated 
central nervous system disease and Guillain-Barre syndrome.  
Limited information, including lack of detailed information on the individual cases, precluded a 
thorough evaluation of their impact on the benefit risk of Lemtrada in view of the time constraints for 
the PSUSA assessment.  
In view of the above, the European Commission (EC) initiated on 11 April 2019 a procedure under 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and requested the Agency to assess the above safety 
concerns and their impact on the benefit-risk balance for the centrally authorised medicinal product 
Lemtrada. The EC requested the Agency to give its opinion on whether the marketing authorisation for 
this product should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked.  
In addition, the EC requested the Agency to give its opinion, as soon as possible, as to whether 
provisional measures were necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of this medicinal product.  
2.  Scientific discussion  
2.1.  Introduction 
Lemtrada (alemtuzumab) is indicated for adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(RRMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an 
inflammatory and neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system that is characterized by 
inflammation, demyelination and neuronal loss. Both T and B lymphocytes are involved in the 
pathogenesis of MS. Alemtuzumab binds to CD52, a cell surface antigen present at high levels on T 
and B lymphocytes, and at lower levels on natural killer cells, monocytes and macrophages. There is 
little or no CD52 detected on neutrophils, plasma cells, or bone marrow stem cells. Alemtuzumab acts 
through antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis following cell surface 
binding to T and B lymphocytes. The mechanism by which alemtuzumab exerts its therapeutic effects 
in MS is unknown but may involve immunomodulation through the depletion and repopulation of 
lymphocytes.  
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Data on safety 
During the assessment procedure of the periodic safety update report (PSUSA) for Lemtrada covering 
the period between 13 September 2017 and 12 September 2018, limited information was available on 
new emerging and serious safety concerns, including lack of detailed information on the individual 
cases, precluding a thorough evaluation. These safety concerns are related to:  
•  Cardiovascular (including cerebrovascular) reactions  temporally associated with 
alemtuzumab administration  
Several cases with various cardiovascular reactions with close temporal relationship with alemtuzumab 
administration were identified. Many of those were life-threatening or fatal.  
These were five cases of pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage, without apparent confounding, where time 
to onset (TTO) from the last infusion was 1 day.  
Ten post-marketing cases of myocardial infarction with troponin increase were reported. The TTO 
ranged between 0 and 2 days after the last alemtuzumab infusion. The MAH found that five of the 
cases were confounded, however in two of the cases the only confounding factor mentioned was the 
standard pre-treatment with methylprednisolone. In five cases, no apparent confounders were present.  
There were also 6 cases of cervicocephalic (vertebral and carotid) dissection, where 4 of these 6 cases 
had a noticeable short time to onset within 3 days from the last alemtuzumab infusion.  
Eight cases of a cerebrovascular accident in close temporal association with Lemtrada administration 
were reviewed. Six patients experienced a hemorrhagic stroke and two patients had an ischaemic 
stroke. The TTO (from the last infusion) was 1 day. It is noticed that an additional five cases of 
haemorrhagic stroke have been published in 2019. The patients had no risk factors and developed first 
symptoms several hours after leaving the infusion centre. 
Common to these cardiovascular reactions was a close temporal relationship to an alemtuzumab 
infusion, as the majority of cases occurred during the treatment course or within 1-3 days after the 
last infusion. This temporal relationship to alemtuzumab infusions is suggestive of a causal association. 
It is noted that in some cases increase of blood pressure was documented. According to existing 
recommendations, observation for infusion associated reactions (IARs) should be undertaken during 
and for two hours after infusion. Despite these recommendations, in the majority of cases it was not 
possible to predict these cardiovascular reactions prior to hospital discharge, and reactions occurred 
outside a hospital setting. It is therefore questioned whether the current risk minimisation measures 
are able to mitigate the risk of occurence of these cardiovascular reactions.  
• 
Immune-mediated reactions 
Autoimmune disorders are an important identified risk for alemtuzumab. New life-threatening and 
potentially fatal immune-mediated reactions were identified.  
Seven cases of Haemophagocytic lymphohistocytosis (HLH) were identified. HLH is a life-threatening 
condition of severe hyperinflammation caused by uncontrolled proliferation of activated lymphocytes 
and macrophages. The temporal onset corresponded to the time of reconstitution of the immune 
system after depletion of B- and T-lymphocytes following Lemtrada treatment.  
In addition, several cases of autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) including fatalities were reported.  
The cases of HLH and AIH suggest that despite the recommendations for intensive monitoring and 
alertness to immune-mediated reactions until 48 months following last treatment course, it has not 
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
 
been possible to take adequate measures to detect them early enough. Thus, it is questioned whether 
the current risk minimisation measures are effective.  
Literature reports1, 2, 3 have highlighted B-cell mediated central nervous system (CNS) lesions with 
temporal onset of 6 months after infusion of alemtuzumab. These cases are characterised by specific 
MRI lesions and unexpected high total B cell count which may suggest a B-cell-mediated activation of 
disease. On this basis, the authors of the papers hypothesise that an autoimmune reaction could be 
directed at CNS in rare cases.  
•  Fatal cases 
Several of the serious risks in relation to alemtuzumab resulted in fatal outcomes despite monitoring of 
the patients and adherence to the current risk minimisation measures such as pre-medication.  
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
Although efficacy of alemtuzumab in RRMS patients is well established, these emerging and serious 
safety concerns may impact the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada.  
In addition, there are serious doubts as to whether the risk minimisation measures currently in place 
are sufficient to adequately manage the risks associated to alemtuzumab in the current target 
population. 
In view of the seriousness of the events observed and until a thorough review of the data is finalised, it 
is appropriate to limit exposure of new patients to alemtuzumab by introducing amendments to the 
product information.  
Therefore PRAC recommended that new treatment with Lemtrada should only be initiated in adult 
patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis despite a full and adequate course of 
treatment with at least two other disease modifying treatments, or in adult patients with highly active 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis where all other disease modifying treatments are contraindicated 
or otherwise unsuitable. 
4.  Risk management 
4.1.  Risk minimisation activities 
4.1.1.  Amendments to the product information 
The following restriction was introduced in annex II of the Product Information as a provisional 
measure while the review is ongoing: 
New treatment should only be initiated in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least two other disease modifying 
1 Haghikia A et al. Severe B-cell-mediated CNS disease secondary to alemtuzumab therapy. Lancet Neurol. 2017 Feb;16(2):104-106 
2 Wehrum et al., Activation of disease during therapy with alemtuzumab in 3 patients with multiple sclerosis. Neurology. 2018 Feb ;90(7): e601-e605 
3 Willis M et al., An observational study of alemtuzumab following fingolimod for multiple sclerosis. Neurol Neuroimmunol Neuroinflamm. 2017 Jan;4(2): 
e320 
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
treatments, or in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis where all other 
disease modifying treatments are contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable. 
In addition, the PRAC considered important that the risk minimisation measures recommended within 
the assessment of the PSUSA procedure (EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/201809) are implemented 
together with the provisional measures. These changes include amendments to: 
• 
section 4.4 of the SmPC to add warnings related to serious reactions temporally associated 
with alemtuzumab infusion including pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage, myocardial infarction, 
stroke (including ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke), cervicocephalic (e.g. vertebral, carotid) 
arterial dissection, as well as warnings on autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic injury and 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. 
•  Section 4.8 of the SmPC to add the adverse reactions pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage, 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, myocardial infarction, stroke (including ischemic and 
haemorrhagic stroke), cervicocephalic arterial dissection and neutropenia.  
The Package Leaflet was amended accordingly. 
4.1.2.  Direct Healthcare Professional Communications/Communication 
plan 
A DHPC was adopted by PRAC to communicate the warnings and restrictions described above to 
healthcare professionals. 
5.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting 
from pharmacovigilance data for Lemtrada, in particular the need for provisional measures in 
accordance with Article 20(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, taking into account the grounds 
set out in Articles 116 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The PRAC reviewed the available data on cardiovascular reactions, including data provided by 
the marketing authorisation holder in the context of the PSUSA procedure. Several cases with 
various cardiovascular reactions were identified, including pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage, 
myocardial infarction, and ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke as well as arterial dissection. 
Many of these cases were life-threatening or fatal. Common to these cardiovascular reactions 
was a close temporal relationship to an alemtuzumab infusion, which is suggestive of a causal 
association. 
• 
The PRAC also reviewed the available data on immune-mediated adverse events, including 
data provided by the marketing authorisation holder in the context of the PSUSA procedure. 
New life-threatening and potentially fatal immune-mediated adverse reactions were identified, 
including haemophagocytic lymphohistocytosis and autoimmune hepatitis. The PRAC also noted 
that recent literature reports have highlighted B-cell mediated central nervous system (CNS) 
lesions with temporal onset of 6 months after infusion of alemtuzumab. 
• 
In addition, several fatal cases were identified both in the literature and in the Eudravigilance 
database. Information from some fatal cases indicates that current recommendations for 
monitoring may be insufficient.  
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The PRAC noted that although efficacy of alemtuzumab in relapsed remitting multiple sclerosis 
patients is well established, these emerging and serious safety concerns can impact the 
benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada, and that until a thorough review is finalised, it would be 
appropriate as a provisional measure to limit the patients exposed to alemtuzumab. Therefore, 
in view of the seriousness of the events observed, the PRAC recommended provisional 
amendments to the product information to restrict use of alemtuzumab in new patients to 
adults with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis despite a full and adequate 
course of treatment with at least two other disease modifying treatments, or to adults with 
highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis where all other disease modifying 
treatments are contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable. 
• 
In addition the PRAC considered important that the risk minimisation measures recommended 
within the assessment of the current PSUSA procedure are also implemented together with the 
provisional measures. The PRAC recommended as part of the PSUSA procedure the addition of 
warnings related to serious reactions temporally associated with alemtuzumab infusion 
including pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage, myocardial infarction, stroke (including ischaemic 
and haemorrhagic stroke), cervicocephalic (e.g. vertebral, carotid) arterial dissection. New 
warnings on autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic injury and haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
are also added. Furthermore, the following new adverse reactions are added: pulmonary 
alveolar haemorrhage, haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, myocardial infarction, stroke 
(including ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke), cervicocephalic arterial dissection and 
neutropenia. 
In view of the above, the Committee considers that the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada 
(alemtuzumab) remains favourable subject to the agreed provisional amendments to the product 
information. The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation for Lemtrada (alemtuzumab). 
This recommendation is without prejudice to the final conclusions of the ongoing procedure under 
Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
Assessment report on provisional measures  
EMA/249094/2019  
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
