22 April 2021 
EMA/363703/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): alemtuzumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/202009 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13 September 2019 To: 12 September 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for alemtuzumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on risks from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports, including cases 
with a plausible temporal relationship, and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC 
considers a causal relationship between alemtuzumab and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) 
is established. TTP is a serious and rare risk that has significant impact on the patient with high 
mortality if not urgently treated. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products 
containing alemtuzumab should be amended accordingly. 
In addition, in view of available data, the PRAC considers that an amendment of the adverse reaction 
pneumonitis is justified. “Pneumonitis” should be presented under SOC “respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders” instead of SOC “infections and infestations”. The PRAC concluded that the 
product information of products containing alemtuzumab should be amended accordingly. 
Update of section 4.4 of the SmPC to add a warning on thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and 4.8 to 
add the adverse reaction thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura with a frequency rare. Also, an update 
of section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC to amend the adverse reaction pneumonitis. The Package leaflet is 
updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for alemtuzumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing alemtuzumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
