12 October 2017 
EMA/CHMP/79804/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): alemtuzumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/201703 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13 September 2016 to 12 March 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for alemtuzumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Alemtuzumab acts through antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis 
following cell surface binding to T and B lymphocytes with a subsequent reduction in the level of 
circulating B and T cells increasing the risk for infections or worsening of existing infections. Based on 
the mechanism of action and the biological plausibility for worsening of active infections, it is 
recommended to add a contraindication to initiate alemtuzumab treatment in patients with severe 
active infection until resolution. 
Based on data from the review period, a causal association is identified between listeriosis/listeria 
meningitis and alemtuzumab treatment prior and during the initiation of the treatment. A total of 26 
serious events concerning listeriosis have been reported, among them a post-marketing fatal case was 
identified where a causal relationship with alemtuzumab could not be excluded. Moreover, an 
evaluation of time to onset of listeriosis was undertaken within this review. A case report mentioned 
that as in most other cases of listeriosis, symptoms started rapidly after the last alemtuzumab 
infusion, which suggests that patients could have been infected with the bacteria already prior to the 
alemtuzumab infusions. The incubation period of invasive listeriosis is found to be wide (median 8 
days, range 1–67 days). For cases with involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) the period is 
more narrow (median 9 days, range 1–14 days) (Goulet et al. 2013). In another study, the median 
incubation period is 11 days and 90% occurs within 28 days. Based on this observation, and due to the 
wide incubation period of Listeria infectious agents which is usually two weeks, the PRAC recommends 
to add to the existing warning that possibly listeria contaminated food items should be avoided not 
only one month after, but also two weeks prior and during alemtuzumab infusion. 
Based on data from the review period, a causal association is identified between pneumonitis and 
alemtuzumab treatment. In clinical studies, 6 of 1217 (0.5%) LEMTRADA-treated patients had 
pneumonitis of varying severity. Cases of hypersensitivity pneumonitis with fibrosis have occurred. 
Additional cases reported, majority in postmarketing setting, of which some occurred less than a 
month (n=18) after treatment with alemtuzumab, has prompted the marketing authorization holder to 
add information to warn about the possibility of developing pneumonitis in alemtuzumab treated 
patients. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for alemtuzumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing alemtuzumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/79804/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
