ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See section 
4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
LEMTRADA 12 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 12 mg alemtuzumab in 1.2 ml (10 mg/ml). 
Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody produced in mammalian cell (Chinese Hamster Ovary) suspension 
culture in a nutrient medium by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol potassium (39 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘potassium- 
free’. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘sodium- free’. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
A clear, colourless to slightly yellow concentrate with pH 7.0 – 7.4. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
LEMTRADA is indicated  as a single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least one 
disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
• 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
LEMTRADA treatment should only be initiated and supervised by a neurologist experienced in the treatment 
of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) in a hospital with ready access to intensive care. Specialists and 
equipment required for the timely diagnosis and management of adverse reactions, especially myocardial 
ischaemia and myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular adverse reactions, autoimmune conditions, and 
infections, should be available.   
Resources for the management of cytokine release syndrome, hypersensitivity and/or anaphylactic reactions 
should be available. 
Patients treated with LEMTRADA must be given the Patient Alert Card and Patient Guide and be informed 
about the risks of LEMTRADA (see also package leaflet). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology  
The recommended dose of alemtuzumab is 12 mg/day administered by intravenous infusion for 2 initial 
treatment courses, with up to 2 additional treatment courses if needed. 
Initial treatment of 2 courses: 
• 
• 
First treatment course: 12 mg/day on 5 consecutive days (60 mg total dose) 
Second treatment course: 12 mg/day on 3 consecutive days (36 mg total dose) administered 12 months 
after the first treatment course. 
Up to two additional treatment courses, as needed, may be considered (see section 5.1): 
• 
Third or fourth course: 12 mg/day on 3 consecutive days (36 mg total dose) administered at least 
12 months after the prior treatment course (see section 4.1, 5.1). 
Missed doses should not be given on the same day as a scheduled dose.  
Follow-up of patients  
The therapy is recommended as an initial treatment of 2 courses with up to 2 additional treatment courses if 
needed (see posology) with safety follow-up of patients from initiation of the first treatment course and for at 
least 48 months after the last infusion of the second treatment course. If an additional third or fourth course is 
administered, continue safety follow-up for at least 48 months after the last infusion (see section 4.4). 
Pre-treatment 
Patients should be pre-treated with corticosteroids immediately prior to LEMTRADA administration on each 
of the first 3 days of any treatment course. In clinical trials, patients were pre-treated with 1,000 mg 
methylprednisolone for the first 3 days of each LEMTRADA treatment course. 
Pretreatment with antihistamines and/or antipyretics prior to LEMTRADA administration may also be 
considered. 
Oral prophylaxis for herpes infection should be administered to all patients starting on the first day of each 
treatment course and continuing for a minimum of 1 month following treatment with LEMTRADA (see also 
under ‘Infections’ in section 4.4). In clinical trials, patients were administered aciclovir 200 mg twice a day 
or equivalent. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Clinical studies did not include any patients aged over 61 years old. It has not been determined whether they 
respond differently than younger patients. 
Renal or hepatic impairment  
LEMTRADA has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment.  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of LEMTRADA in children with MS aged 0 to 18 years have not yet been 
established. There is no relevant use of alemtuzumab in children aged from birth to less than 10 years for the 
treatment of multiple sclerosis. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
LEMTRADA must be diluted before infusion. The diluted solution should be administered by intravenous 
infusion over a period of approximately 4 hours. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. 
Patients with severe active infection until complete resolution. 
Patients with uncontrolled hypertension. 
Patients with a history of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries. 
Patients with a history of stroke.  
Patients with a history of angina pectoris or myocardial infarction. 
Patients with known coagulopathy, on anti-platelet or anti-coagulant therapy. 
Patients with other concomitant autoimmune diseases (besides MS).  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
LEMTRADA is not recommended for patients with inactive disease or those stable on current therapy. 
Patients treated with LEMTRADA must be given the Package Leaflet, the Patient Alert Card and the Patient 
Guide. Before treatment, patients must be informed about the risks and benefits, and the need to commit to 
follow-up from treatment initiation until at least 48 months after the last infusion of the second LEMTRADA 
treatment course. If an additional course is administered, safety-follow up should be continued until at least 
48 months after the last infusion.  
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number  
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Autoimmunity 
Treatment may result in the formation of autoantibodies and increase the risk of autoimmune mediated 
conditions which may be serious and life threatening. Reported autoimmune conditions, include thyroid 
disorders, immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP),  nephropathies (e.g. anti-glomerular basement 
membrane disease), autoimmune hepatitis (AIH), acquired haemophilia A, thrombotic thrombocytopenic 
purpura, sarcoidosis, and autoimmune encephalitis. In the post-marketing setting, patients developing 
multiple autoimmune disorders after LEMTRADA treatment have been observed. Patients who develop 
autoimmunity should be assessed for other autoimmune mediated conditions (see section 4.3). Patients and 
physicians should be made aware of the potential later onset of autoimmune disorders after the 48 months 
monitoring period. 
Acquired haemophilia A 
Cases of acquired haemophilia A (anti-factor VIII antibodies) have been reported in both clinical trial and 
post-marketing setting. Patients typically present with spontaneous subcutaneous haematomas and extensive 
bruising although haematuria, epistaxis, gastrointestinal or other types of bleeding may occur. A 
coagulopathy panel including aPTT must be obtained in all patients that present with such symptoms. In case 
of a prolonged aPTT patient should be referred to a haematologist. Educate patients on the signs and 
symptoms of acquired haemophilia A and to seek immediate medical attention, if any of these symptoms are 
observed. 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development of TTP has been reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA during post-marketing use, 
including a fatal case. TTP is a serious condition that requires urgent evaluation and prompt treatment, and 
can develop several months after last LEMTRADA infusion. TTP may be characterized by 
thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, neurological symptoms, fever and renal impairment.  
Autoimmune Encephalitis 
Cases of autoimmune encephalitis have been reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA. Autoimmune 
encephalitis is characterized by subacute onset (with rapid progression over months) of memory impairment, 
altered mental status or psychiatric symptoms, generally in combination with new onset focal neurological 
findings and seizures. Patients with suspected autoimmune encephalitis should have neuroimaging (MRI), 
EEG, lumbar puncture and serologic testing for appropriate biomarkers (e.g. neural autoantibodies) to 
confirm diagnosis and exclude alternative etiologies.  
Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) 
Serious events of ITP have been observed in 12 (1%) patients treated in controlled clinical trials in MS 
(corresponding to an annualised rate 4.7 events/1000 patient years). An additional 12 serious events of ITP 
has been observed through a median of 6.1 years (maximum 12 years) of follow-up (cumulative annualised 
rate of 2.8 events/1000 patient years). One patient developed ITP that went unrecognised prior to 
implementation of monthly blood monitoring requirements and died from intracerebral haemorrhage. In 
79.5% of cases, ITP onset occurred within 4 years after first exposure. However, in some cases ITP 
developed years later. Symptoms of ITP could include (but are not limited to) easy bruising, petechiae, 
spontaneous mucocutaneous bleeding (e.g., epistaxis, haemoptysis), heavier than normal or irregular 
menstrual bleeding. Haemoptysis may also be indicative of anti-GBM disease (see below), and an 
appropriate differential diagnosis has to be undertaken. Remind the patient to remain vigilant for symptoms 
they may experience and to seek immediate medical help if they have any concerns. 
Complete blood counts with differential should be obtained prior to initiation of treatment and at monthly 
intervals thereafter until at least 48 months after the last infusion. After this period of time, testing should be 
performed based on clinical findings suggestive of ITP. If ITP is suspected a complete blood count should be 
obtained immediately. 
If ITP onset is confirmed, appropriate medical intervention should be promptly initiated, including 
immediate referral to a specialist. Data from clinical trials in MS has shown that adherence to the blood 
monitoring requirements and education relative to signs and symptoms of ITP has led to early detection and 
treatment of ITP with most cases responding to first-line medical therapy. 
Nephropathies 
Nephropathies, including anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) disease, have been observed in 
6  (0.4%) patients in clinical trials in MS through a median of 6.1 years (maximum 12 years) of follow-up 
and generally occurred within 39 months following the last administration of LEMTRADA. In clinical trials, 
there were 2 cases of anti-GBM disease. Both cases were serious, were identified early through clinical and 
laboratory monitoring, and had a positive outcome after treatment. 
Clinical manifestations of nephropathy may include elevation in serum creatinine, haematuria, and/or 
proteinuria. While not observed in clinical trials, alveolar haemorrhage manifested as haemoptysis may occur 
with anti-GBM disease. Haemoptysis may also be indicative of ITP or acquired haemophilia A (see above), 
and an appropriate differential diagnosis has to be undertaken. The patient should be reminded to remain 
vigilant for symptoms they may experience and to seek immediate medical help if they have any concerns. 
Anti-GBM disease may lead to renal failure requiring dialysis and/or transplantation if not treated rapidly 
and can be life-threatening if left untreated. 
Serum creatinine levels should be obtained prior to initiation of treatment and at monthly intervals thereafter 
until at least 48 months after the last infusion. Urinalysis with microscopy should be obtained prior to 
initiation and at monthly intervals thereafter until at least 48 months after the last infusion. The observation 
of clinically significant changes from baseline in serum creatinine, unexplained haematuria, and/or 
proteinuria, should prompt further evaluation for nephropathies including immediate referral to a specialist. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Early detection and treatment of nephropathies may decrease the risk of poor outcomes. After this period of 
time, testing should be performed based on clinical findings suggestive of nephropathies. 
Thyroid disorders 
Thyroid endocrine disorders including autoimmune thyroid disorders have been observed in 36.8% of 
patients treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg in clinical trials in MS with a median of 6.1 years (maximum 
12 years) of follow- up from the first LEMTRADA exposure. The incidence of thyroid events was higher in 
patients with a medical history of thyroid disorders both in the LEMTRADA and interferon beta 1a (IFNB-
1a) treatment groups. Observed autoimmune thyroid disorders included hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. 
Most events were mild to moderate in severity. Serious endocrine events occurred in 4.4% of patients, with 
Basedow’s disease (also known as Graves’ disease), hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, autoimmune 
thyroiditis, and goitre occurring in more than 1 patient. Most thyroid events were managed with conventional 
medical therapy however some patients required surgical intervention.  In the post-marketing setting several 
patients who developed biopsy proven AIH had previously developed autoimmune thyroid disorders. 
Thyroid function tests, such as thyroid stimulating hormone levels, should be obtained prior to initiation of 
treatment and every 3 months thereafter until 48 months following the last infusion. After this period of time 
testing should be performed based on clinical findings suggestive of thyroid dysfunction or in case of 
pregnancy. 
Thyroid disease poses special risks in women who are pregnant (see section 4.6). 
In clinical trials, 74% of patients with positive anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) antibodies at baseline 
developed a thyroid event compared with 38% of patients with a baseline negative status. The vast majority 
(approximately 80%) of patients who presented with a thyroid event after treatment were anti-TPO antibody 
negative at baseline. Therefore, regardless of pretreatment anti-TPO antibody status patients may develop a 
thyroid adverse reaction and must have all tests periodically performed as described above. 
Cytopenias 
Suspected autoimmune cytopenias such as neutropenia, haemolytic anaemia and pancytopenia have been 
infrequently reported in clinical trials in MS. Complete blood count results (see above under ITP) should be 
used to monitor for cytopenias, including neutropenia. If a cytopenia is confirmed, appropriate medical 
intervention should be promptly initiated, including referral to a specialist. 
Autoimmune hepatitis and hepatic injury  
Cases of autoimmune hepatitis (including fatal cases and cases requiring liver transplantation) and hepatic 
injury related to infections have been reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA (see section 4.3). Liver 
function tests should beperformed before initial treatment and at monthly intervals until at least 48 months 
after the last infusion. Patients should be informed about the risk of autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic injury and 
related symptoms.  
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) 
During post-marketing use, HLH (including fatal cases) has been reported in patients treated with 
LEMTRADA. HLH is a life-threatening syndrome of pathologic immune activation characterized by clinical 
signs and symptoms of extreme systemic inflammation. HLH is characterized by fever, hepatomegaly and 
cytopenias. It is associated with high mortality rates if not recognized early and treated. Symptoms have been 
reported to occur within a few months to four years following the initiation of treatment. Patients should be 
informed about symptoms of HLH and time to onset. Patients who develop early manifestations of 
pathologic immune activation should be evaluated immediately, and a diagnosis of HLH should be 
considered. 
Infusion-associated Reactions (IARs)  
In clinical trials, infusion associated reactions (IARs) were defined as any adverse event occurring during or 
within 24 hours of LEMTRADA infusion. The majority of these may be due to cytokine release during 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infusion. Most patients treated with LEMTRADA in clinical trials in MS experienced mild to moderate IARs 
during and/or up to 24 hours after LEMTRADA 12 mg administration. The incidence of IARs was higher in 
course 1 than in subsequent courses. Through all available follow-up, including patients who received 
additional treatment courses, the most common IARs included headache, rash, pyrexia, nausea, urticaria, 
pruritus, insomnia, chills, flushing, fatigue, dyspnoea, dysgeusia, chest discomfort, generalised rash, 
tachycardia, bradycardia, dyspepsia, dizziness, and pain. Serious reactions occurred in 3% of patients and 
included cases of headache, pyrexia, urticaria, tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, nausea, chest discomfort, and 
hypotension. Clinical manifestations of anaphylaxis may appear similar to clinical manifestations of infusion 
associated reactions, but would tend to be more severe or potentially life-threatening. Reactions attributed to 
anaphylaxis have been reported rarely in contrast to infusion associated reactions.  
It is recommended that patients be premedicated to ameliorate the effects of infusion reactions (see section 
4.2). 
Most patients in controlled clinical trials received antihistamines and/or antipyretics before at least one 
LEMTRADA infusion. IARs may occur in patients despite pretreatment. Observation for infusion reactions 
is recommended during and for at least 2 hours after LEMTRADA infusion. Extended observation time  
(hospitalization) should be considered, as appropriate. If severe infusion reactions occur, the intravenous 
infusion should be discontinued immediately. Resources for the management of anaphylaxis or serious 
reactions (see below) should be available. 
Adult Onset Still’s disease (AOSD) 
During postmarketing use, Adult Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD) has been reported in patients treated with 
LEMTRADA. AOSD is a rare inflammatory condition that requires urgent evaluation and treatment. Patients 
with AOSD may have a combination of the following signs and symptoms: fever, arthritis, rash and 
leukocytosis in the absence of infections, malignancies, and other rheumatic conditions. Consider 
interruption or discontinuation of treatment with LEMTRADA if an alternate etiology for the signs or 
symptoms cannot be established. 
Other serious reactions temporally associated with LEMTRADA infusion 
During post-marketing use, rare, serious, sometimes fatal and unpredictable adverse events from various 
organ systems have been reported. In the majority of cases time to onset was within 1-3 days of the 
LEMTRADA infusion. Reactions have occurred following any of the doses and also after course number 2.  
Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms and on the time to onset of the events. Patients 
should be advised to seek immediate medical attention if any of these symptoms occur and be informed on 
the potential for delayed onset.  
Haemorrhagic stroke 
Several of the patient reported were below 50 years of age and had no history of hypertension, bleeding 
disorders or concomitant anticoagulants or platelet inhibitors. In some patients there was increased blood 
pressure from baseline before the haemorrhage. 
Myocardial ischaemia and myocardial infarction 
Several of the patients reported were below 40 years of age and had no risk factors for ischemic heart 
disease. It was noted that in some of the patients, blood pressure and /or heart rate was temporarily abnormal 
during the infusion. 
Dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries 
Cases of cervicocephalic arterial dissections, including multiple dissections, have been reported both within 
the first days after the LEMTRADA infusion or later on within the first month after the infusion. 
Pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage 
Reported cases of temporally associated events were not related to anti-GBM disease (Goodpasteurs 
syndrome).  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia 
The reported thrombocytopenia occurred within the first days after the infusion (unlike ITP). It was often 
self-limiting and relatively mild, although severity and outcome was unknown in many cases. 
Pericarditis  
Rare cases of pericarditis, pericardial effusion and other pericardial events have been reported, both as part 
of acute infusion reaction and with later onset.  
Pneumonitis 
Pneumonitis has been reported in patients who received LEMTRADA infusions. Most cases occurred within 
the first month after treatment with LEMTRADA. Patients should be advised to report symptoms of 
pneumonitis, which may include shortness of breath, cough, wheezing, chest pain or tightness and 
hemoptysis. 
Infusion instructions to reduce serious reactions temporally associated with LEMTRADA infusion 
•  Pre-infusion evaluations:  
o  Obtain a baseline ECG and vital signs, including heart rate and blood pressure measurement.  
o  Perform laboratory tests (complete blood count with differential, serum transaminases, 
serum creatinine, test of thyroid function and urinanalysis with microscopy). 
•  During infusion:  
o  Perform continuous/frequent (at least every hour) monitoring of heart rate, blood pressure 
and overall clinical status of the patients  
  Discontinue the infusion  
• 
• 
In case of a severe adverse event 
If the patient shows clinical symptoms suggesting development of a serious 
adverse event associated with the infusion (myocardial ischemia, 
hemorrhagic stroke, cervico-cephalic arterial dissection or pulmonary 
alveolar haemorrhage 
•  Post-infusion:  
o  Observation for infusion reactions is recommended for a minimum of 2 hours after 
LEMTRADA infusion. Patients with clinical symptoms suggesting development of a serious 
adverse event temporally associated with the infusion (myocardial ischemia, haemorrhagic 
stroke, cervico-cephalic arterial dissection or pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage) should be 
closely monitored until complete resolution of the symptoms. The observation time should 
be extended (hospitalisation) as appropriate. The patients should be educated on the potential 
for delayed onset of infusion associated reactions and instructed to report symptoms and 
seek appropriate medical care.  
o  Platelet count should be obtained immediately after infusion on Days 3 and 5 of the first 
infusion course, as well as immediately after infusion on Day 3 of any subsequent course. 
Clinically significant thrombocytopenia needs to be followed until resolution. Referral to a 
haematologist for management should be considered. 
8 
 
 
 
Infections 
Infections occurred in 71% of patients treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg as compared to 53% of patients 
treated with subcutaneous interferon beta-1a [IFNB 1a](44mcg 3-times weekly) in controlled clinical trials in 
MS up to 2 years in duration and were predominantly mild to moderate in severity. Infections that occurred 
more often in LEMTRADA –treated patients than IFNB 1a patients included nasopharyngitis, urinary tract 
infection, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, oral herpes, influenza, and bronchitis. Serious infections 
occurred in 2.7% of patients treated with LEMTRADA as compared to 1% of patients treated with IFNB-1a 
in controlled clinical trials in MS. Serious infections in the LEMTRADA group included: appendicitis, 
gastroenteritis, pneumonia, herpes zoster, and tooth infection. Infections were generally of typical duration 
and resolved following conventional medical treatment.  
The cumulative annualised rate of infections was 0.99 through a median of 6.1 years (maximum 12 years) of 
follow-up from the first LEMTRADA exposure, as compared to 1.27 in controlled clinical trials.  
Serious varicella zoster virus infections, including primary varicella and varicella zoster re-activation, have 
occurred more often in patients treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg (0.4%) in clinical trials as compared to 
IFNB-1a (0%). Cervical human papilloma virus (HPV) infection, including cervical dysplasia and anogenital 
warts, has also been reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg (2%). It is recommended that HPV 
screening be completed annually for female patients. 
Cytomegalovirus infections (CMV) including cases of CMV reactivation have been reported in 
LEMTRADA-treated patients. Most cases occurred within 2 months of alemtuzumab dosing. Before 
initiation of therapy, evaluation of immune serostatus could be considered according to local guidelines. 
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, including reactivation and severe and sometimes fatal EBV hepatitis 
cases, has been reported in LEMTRADA-treated patients. 
Tuberculosis has been reported for patients treated with LEMTRADA and IFNB-1a in controlled clinical 
trials. Active and latent tuberculosis, including a few cases of disseminated tuberculosis,  have been reported 
in 0.3% of the patients treated with LEMTRADA, most often in endemic regions. Before initiation of 
therapy, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive (“latent”) tuberculosis infection, according 
to local guidelines. 
Listeriosis/Listeria meningitis has been reported in LEMTRADA treated patients, generally within one 
month of LEMTRADA infusion. To reduce the risk of infection, patients receiving LEMTRADA should 
avoid ingestion of uncooked or undercooked meats, soft cheeses and unpasteurized dairy products two weeks 
prior to, during, and for at least one month after LEMTRADA infusion.  
Superficial fungal infections, especially oral and vaginal candidiasis, occurred more commonly in 
LEMTRADA –treated patients (12%) than in patients treated with IFNB-1a (3%) in controlled clinical trials 
in MS. 
Initiation of treatment with LEMTRADA should be delayed in patients with severe active infection until 
resolution. Patients receiving LEMTRADA should be instructed to report symptoms of infections to a 
physician. 
Prophylaxis with an oral anti-herpes agent should be initiated starting on the first day of LEMTRADA 
treatment and continuing for a minimum of 1 month following each course of treatment. In clinical trials 
patients were administered cyclovir 200 mg twice a day or equivalent. 
LEMTRADA has not been administered for treatment of MS concomitantly with or following antineoplastic 
or immunosuppressive therapies. As with other immunomodulating therapies, potential combined effects on 
the patient’s immune system should be taken into account when considering administration of LEMTRADA. 
Concomitant use of LEMTRADA with any of these therapies could increase the risk of immunosuppression. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data are available on the association of LEMTRADA with Hepatitis B virus (HBV) or Hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) reactivation as patients with evidence of active or chronic infections were excluded from clinical 
trials. Screening patients at high risk of HBV and/or HCV infection before initiation of LEMTRADA should 
be considered and caution should be exercised in prescribing LEMTRADA to patients identified as carriers 
of HBV and/or HCV as these patients may be at risk of irreversible liver damage relative to a potential virus 
reactivation as a consequence of their pre-existing status. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Rare cases of PML (including fatal), have been reported in MS patients after treatment with alemtuzumab. 
Patients treated with alemtuzumab must be monitored for any signs that may be suggestive of PML. Risk 
factors of special importance include previous immunosuppressive treatment, in particular other MS 
treatments with known risk of causing PML.  
MRI findings may be apparent before clinical signs or symptoms. Prior to initiation and readministration of 
alemtuzumab treatment, MRI scan should be made and evaluated for signs that are consistent with PML. 
Further evaluation, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing for JC Viral DNA and repeat neurological 
assessments should be performed as appropriate. The physician should be particularly alert to symptoms 
suggestive of PML that the patient may not notice (e.g. cognitive, neurological or psychiatric symptoms). 
Patients should also be advised to inform their relatives or caregivers about their treatment, since they may 
notice symptoms that the patient is not aware of. PML should be considered as a differential diagnosis in any 
MS patient taking alemtuzumab presenting with neurological symptoms and/or new brain lesions in MRI. 
If a diagnosis of PML has been made, treatment with alemtuzumab should not be started or restarted.  
Acute acalculous cholecystitis  
LEMTRADA may increase the risk of acute acalculous cholecystitis. In controlled clinical studies, 0.2% of 
LEMTRADA-treated MS patients developed acute acalculous cholecystitis, compared to 0% of patients 
treated with IFNB-1a. During post-marketing use, additional cases of acute acalculous cholecystitis have 
been reported in LEMTRADA-treated patients. Time to onset of symptoms ranged from less than 24 hours to 
2 months after LEMTRADA infusion. Most patients were treated conservatively with antibiotics and 
recovered without surgical intervention, whereas others underwent cholecystectomy. Symptoms of acute 
acalculous cholecystitis include abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness, fever, nausea, and vomiting. Acute 
acalculous cholecystitis is a condition that may be associated with high morbidity and mortality rates if not 
diagnosed early and treated. If acute acalculous cholecystitis is suspected, evaluate and treat promptly. 
Malignancy 
As with other immunomodulatory therapies, caution should be exercised in initiating LEMTRADA therapy 
in patients with pre-existing and/or an on-going malignancy. It is not currently known if LEMTRADA 
confers a higher risk for developing thyroid malignancies, since thyroid autoimmunity may itself be a risk 
factor for thyroid malignancies. 
Contraception 
Placental transfer and potential pharmacologic activity of LEMTRADA were observed in mice during 
gestation and following delivery. Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraceptive 
measures during treatment and for 4 months following a course of LEMTRADA treatment (see section 4.6). 
Vaccines 
It is recommended that patients have completed local immunisation requirements at least 6 weeks prior to 
treatment with LEMTRADA. The ability to generate an immune response to any vaccine following 
LEMTRADA treatment has not been studied. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines following a course of LEMTRADA treatment has not 
been formally studied in controlled clinical trials in MS and should not be administered to MS patients who 
have recently received a course of LEMTRADA.  
Varicella zoster virus antibody testing/vaccination 
As for any immune modulating medicinal product, before initiating a course of LEMTRADA treatment, 
patients without a history of chickenpox or without vaccination against varicella zoster virus (VZV) should 
be tested for antibodies to VZV. VZV vaccination of antibody-negative patients should be considered prior 
to treatment initiation with LEMTRADA. To allow for the full effect of the VZV vaccination to occur, 
treatment with LEMTRADA should be postponed for 6 weeks following vaccination. 
Recommended laboratory tests for monitoring patients 
Clinical examination and laboratory tests should be conducted at periodic intervals until at least 48 months 
following the last treatment course of LEMTRADA in order to monitor for early signs of autoimmune 
diseases: 
• 
Complete blood count with differential, serum transaminases and serum creatinine levels (prior to 
treatment initiation and at monthly intervals thereafter). 
Urinalysis with microscopy (prior to treatment initiation and at monthly intervals thereafter)  
A test of thyroid function, such as thyroid stimulating hormone level (prior to treatment initiation and 
every 3 months thereafter). 
• 
• 
Information from use of alemtuzumab prior to the marketing authorisation of LEMTRADA outside of 
company-sponsored studies  
The following adverse reactions were identified prior to registration of LEMTRADA during use of 
alemtuzumab for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), as well as for the 
treatment of other disorders, generally at higher and more frequent doses (e.g. 30 mg) than that 
recommended in the treatment of MS. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of 
uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship 
to alemtuzumab exposure. 
Autoimmune disease 
Autoimmune events reported in alemtuzumab-treated patients include neutropenia, haemolytic anaemia 
(including a fatal case), acquired haemophilia, anti-GBM disease, and thyroid disease. Serious and 
sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena including autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, autoimmune 
thrombocytopenia, aplastic anaemia, Guillain-Barré syndrome, and chronic inflammatory demyelinating 
polyradiculoneuropathy have been reported in alemtuzumab-treated non-MS patients. A positive Coombs 
test has been reported in an alemtuzumab-treated oncology patient. A fatal event of transfusion associated 
graft versus host disease has been reported in an alemtuzumab-treated oncology patient.  
Infusion-associated reactions 
Serious and sometimes fatal IARs including bronchospasm, hypoxia, syncope, pulmonary infiltrates, acute 
respiratory distress syndrome , respiratory arrest, myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, acute cardiac 
insufficiency, and cardiac arrest have been observed in non-MS patients treated with alemtuzumab at higher 
and more frequent doses than used in MS. Severe anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock and angioedema have also been reported.  
Infections and infestations 
Serious and sometimes fatal viral, bacterial, protozoan, and fungal infections, including those due to 
reactivation of latent infections, have been reported in non-MS patients treated with alemtuzumab at higher 
and more frequent doses than used in MS.  
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Severe bleeding reactions have been reported in non-MS patients. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac disorders 
Congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, and decreased ejection fraction have been reported in 
alemtuzumab-treated non-MS patients previously treated with potentially cardiotoxic agents. 
Epstein-Barr Virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorders 
Epstein-Barr Virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorders have been observed outside company-sponsored 
studies. 
LEMTRADA contains sodium and potassium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol potassium (39 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘potassium- 
free’. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘sodium- free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with LEMTRADA using the recommended dose in 
patients with MS. In a controlled clinical trial in MS patients recently treated with beta interferon and 
glatiramer acetate were required to discontinue treatment 28 days before initiating treatment with 
LEMTRADA. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential 
Serum concentrations were low or undetectable within approximately 30 days following each treatment 
course. Therefore, women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception when receiving a 
course of treatment with LEMTRADA and up to 4 months after each course of treatment.  
Pregnancy 
There is a limited amount of data from the use of alemtuzumab in pregnant women. LEMTRADA should be 
administered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus.  
Human IgG is known to cross the placental barrier; alemtuzumab may cross the placental barrier as well and 
thus potentially pose a risk to the foetus. Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
It is not known whether alemtuzumab can cause foetal harm when administered to pregnant women or 
whether it can affect reproductive capacity. 
Thyroid disease (see section 4.4 Thyroid Disorders) poses special risks in women who are pregnant. Without 
treatment of hypothyroidism during pregnancy, there is an increased risk for miscarriage and foetal effects 
such as mental retardation and dwarfism. In mothers with Graves’ disease, maternal thyroid stimulating 
hormone receptor antibodies can be transferred to a developing foetus and can cause transient neonatal 
Graves’ disease. 
Breast-feeding 
Alemtuzumab was detected in the milk and offspring of lactating female mice. 
It is unknown whether alemtuzumab is excreted in human milk. A risk to the suckling newborn/infant cannot 
be excluded. Therefore, breast-feeding should be discontinued during each course of treatment with 
LEMTRADA and for 4 months following the last infusion of each treatment course. However, benefits of 
conferred immunity through breast-milk may outweigh the risks of potential exposure to alemtuzumab for 
the suckling newborn/infant. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
There are no adequate clinical safety data on the effect of LEMTRADA on fertility. In a sub-study in 13 
male LEMTRADA-treated patients (treated with either 12 mg or 24 mg), there was no evidence of aspermia, 
azoospermia, consistently depressed sperm count, motility disorders or an increase in sperm morphological 
abnormalities.  
CD52 is known to be present in human and rodent reproductive tissues. Animal data have shown effects on 
fertility in humanised mice (see section 5.3), however a potential impact on human fertility during the period 
of exposure is unknown based on the available data. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
LEMTRADA has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Most patients experience IARs 
which occur during or within 24 hours after treatment with LEMTRADA. Some of the IARs (e.g. dizziness) 
could temporarily impact the patient's ability to drive or use machines and caution should be exercised until 
these are resolved.   
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile in clinical studies 
A total of 1,486 patients treated with LEMTRADA (12 mg or 24 mg) constituted the safety population in a 
pooled analysis of MS clinical studies with a median follow-up of 6.1 years (maximum 12 years), resulting 
in 8,635 patient-years of safety follow-up. 
The most important adverse reactions are autoimmunity (ITP, thyroid disorders, nephropathies, cytopenias), 
IARs, and infections. These are described in section 4.4. 
The most common adverse reactions with LEMTRADA (in ≥20% of patients) were rash, headache, pyrexia, 
and respiratory tract infections. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The table below is based on the pooled safety data on all LEMTRADA 12 mg-treated patients during all 
available follow up in clinical trials. Adverse reactions are listed by Medical Dictionary for Regulatory 
Activities (MedDRA) System Organ Class (SOC) and Preferred Term (PT). Frequencies are defined 
according to the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions have been presented 
in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions in study 1, 2, 3 and 4 observed in LEMTRADA 12 mg treated patients and 
post-marketing surveillance  
System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very Common  
Common  
Uncommon  
Rare 
Not known 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection, 
urinary tract 
infection, herpes 
virus infection,1  
Onychomycosis, 
gingivitis, fungal 
skin infection, 
tonsillitis, acute 
sinusitis, 
cellulitis,  
Herpes zoster 
infections2, lower 
respiratory tract 
infections, 
gastroenteritis, 
oral candidiasis, 
vulvovaginal 
candidiasis, 
13 
Listeriosis/l
isteria 
meningitis, 
Epstein-
Barr virus 
(EBV) 
infection 
(including 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl. 
cysts and polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Lymphopenia, 
leukopenia, 
including 
neutropenia 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Basedow’s 
disease, 
hyperthyrodisim, 
hypothyroidism 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache*  
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders  Tachycardia* 
tuberculosis,  
cytomegalovirus 
infection 
influenza, ear 
infection, 
pneumonia, 
vaginal infection, 
tooth infection 
Skin papilloma 
reactivation
) 
Lymphadenopath
y, immune 
thrombocytopeni
c purpura, 
thrombocytopeni
a, anaemia 
haematocrit 
decreased, 
leukocytosis 
Cytokine release 
syndrome*, 
hypersensitivity 
including 
anaphylaxis* 
Autoimmune 
thyroiditis 
including 
thyroiditis 
subacute,  goitre, 
anti-thyroid 
antibody positive  
Insomnia*, 
anxiety, 
depression 
MS relapse, 
dizziness*, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia, 
tremor, 
dysgeusia*, 
migraine* 
Conjunctivitis, 
endocrine 
ophthalmopathy, 
vision blurred  
Vertigo 
Pancytopenia, 
haemolytic 
anaemia, 
acquired 
haemophilia A 
Haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis 
(HLH),  thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic 
purpura (TTP) 
Sarcoidosis 
Decreased 
appetite 
Sensory 
disturbance, 
hyperaesthesia, 
tension headache,  
autoimmune 
encephalitis 
Diplopia 
Ear pain  
Bradycardia*, 
palpitations* 
Atrial 
fibrillation* 
14 
Haemorrha
gic 
stroke**, 
cervicoceph
alic arterial 
dissection*
* 
Myocardial 
ischaemia*
*, 
myocardial 
infarction** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulmonary 
alveolar 
haemorrhag
e** 
Autoimmun
e hepatitis, 
Hepatitis 
(associated 
with EBV 
infection) 
Adult Onset 
Still’s 
Disease 
(AOSD) 
Flushing* 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea* 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Urticaria*, rash*, 
pruritus*, 
generalised rash*  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Pyrexia*, 
fatigue*, chills*  
Throat 
tightness*, throat 
irritation,  
pneumonitis 
Constipation, 
gastro-
oesophageal 
reflux disease, 
gingival 
bleeding, dry 
mouth, 
dysphagia, 
gastrointestinal 
disorder, 
haematochezia 
Cholecystitis 
including 
acalculous 
cholecystitis and 
acute acalculous 
cholecystitis 
Blister, night 
sweats, swelling 
face, eczema,  
vitiligo, alopecia 
areata 
Musculoskeletal 
stiffness, limb 
discomfort 
Nephrolithiasis, 
ketonuria, 
nephropathies 
including anti-
GBM disease 
Cervical 
dysplasia, 
amenorrhoea 
Hypotension*, 
hypertension* 
Dyspnoea*, 
cough, epistaxis, 
hiccups, 
oropharyngeal 
pain, asthma  
Abdominal pain, 
vomiting, 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia*, 
stomatitis 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased, 
alanine 
aminotransferase 
increase 
Erythema*, 
ecchymosis, 
alopecia, 
hyperhidrosis, 
acne, skin lesion, 
dermatitis 
Myalgia, muscle 
weakness, 
arthralgia, back 
pain, pain in 
extremity, 
muscle spasms, 
neck pain, 
musculoskeletal 
pain 
Proteinuria, 
haematuria 
Menorrhagia, 
menstruation 
irregular 
Chest 
discomfort*, 
pain*, oedema 
peripheral, 
asthenia, 
influenza-like 
illness, malaise, 
infusion site pain 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigations 
Blood creatinine 
increased 
Weight 
decreased, 
weight increased, 
red blood cell 
count decreased, 
bacterial test 
positive, blood 
glucose 
increased, mean 
cell volume 
increase 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Contusion, 
infusion related 
reaction 
1 Herpes virus infections include PTs: Oral herpes, Herpes simplex, Genital herpes, Herpes virus infection, 
Genital herpes simplex, Herpes dermatitis, Ophthalmic herpes simplex, Herpes simplex serology positive. 
2 Herpes zoster infections include PTs: Herpes zoster, Herpes zoster cutaneous disseminated, Ophthalmic 
herpes zoster, Herpes ophthalmic, Herpes zoster infection neurological, Herpes zoster meningitis. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Terms marked with asterisk (*) in Table 1 include adverse reactions reported as Infusion Associated 
Reactions.  
Terms marked with two asterisks (**) in Table 1 include adverse reactions observed in the post marketing 
setting which have occurred in the majority of cases with time to onset within 1-3 days of LEMTRADA 
infusion, following any of the doses during the treatment course. 
Neutropenia 
Cases of severe (including fatal) neutropenia have been reported within 2 months of LEMTRADA infusion. 
Safety profile in long-term follow-up 
The type of adverse reactions including seriousness and severity observed in LEMTRADA treatment groups 
through all available follow-up including patients who received additional treatment courses were similar to 
those in the active-controlled studies. The incidence of IARs was higher in course 1 than in subsequent 
courses. 
In patients continuing from controlled clinical studies and who did not receive any additional LEMTRADA 
after the initial 2 treatment courses, the rate (events per person-year) of most adverse reactions was 
comparable to or reduced in years 3-6 as compared to years 1 and 2. The rate of thyroid adverse reactions 
was highest in year three and declined thereafter.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In controlled clinical trials two MS patients accidentally received up to 60 mg LEMTRADA (i.e. total dose 
for initial treatment course) in a single infusion and experienced serious reactions (headache, rash, and either 
hypotension or sinus tachycardia). Doses of LEMTRADA greater than those tested in clinical studies may 
increase the intensity and/or duration of infusion-associated adverse reactions or its immune effects. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no known antidote for alemtuzumab over dosage. Treatment consists of discontinuation of the 
medicinal product and supportive therapy. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AA34  
Mechanism of action  
Alemtuzumab, is a recombinant DNA-derived humanised monoclonal antibody directed against the 
21-28 kD cell surface glycoprotein CD52. Alemtuzumab is an IgG1 kappa antibody with human variable 
framework and constant regions, and complementary-determining regions from a murine (rat) monoclonal 
antibody. The antibody has an approximate molecular weight of 150 kD.  
Alemtuzumab binds to CD52, a cell surface antigen present at high levels on T (CD3+) and B (CD19+) 
lymphocytes, and at lower levels on natural killer cells, monocytes, and macrophages. There is little or no 
CD52 detected on neutrophils, plasma cells, or bone marrow stem cells. Alemtuzumab acts through 
antibody-dependent cellular cytolysis and complement-mediated lysis following cell surface binding to T 
and B lymphocytes.  
The mechanism by which LEMTRADA exerts its therapeutic effects in MS is not fully elucidated. However, 
research suggests immunomodulatory effects through the depletion and repopulation of lymphocytes, 
including: 
- Alterations in the number, proportions, and properties of some lymphocyte subsets post-treatment 
- Increased representation of regulatory T cell subsets 
- Increased representation of memory T- and B-lymphocytes 
- Transient effects on components of innate immunity (i.e., neutrophils, macrophages, NK cells) 
The reduction in the level of circulating B and T cells by LEMTRADA and subsequent repopulation, may 
reduce the potential for relapse, which ultimately delays disease progression. 
Pharmacodynamic effects  
LEMTRADA depletes circulating T and B lymphocytes after each treatment course with the lowest observed 
values occurring 1 month after a course of treatment (the earliest post-treatment time point in phase 3 
studies). Lymphocytes repopulate over time with B-cell recovery usually completed within 6 months. CD3+ 
and CD4+ lymphocyte counts rise more slowly towards normal, but generally do not return to baseline by 
12-months post-treatment. Approximately 40% of patients had total lymphocyte counts reaching the lower 
limit of normal (LLN) by 6 months after each treatment course, and approximately 80% of patients had total 
lymphocyte counts reaching the LLN by 12 months after each course.  
Neutrophils, monocytes, eosinophils, basophils, and natural killer cells are only transiently affected by 
LEMTRADA. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
The safety and efficacy of alemtuzumab in MS were evaluated in 3 randomised, rater-blinded, active-
comparator clinical trials and 1 uncontrolled, rater-blinded extension study in patients with RRMS. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study design/demographics for Studies 1, 2, 3 and 4 are shown in Table 2 
Table 2: Study Design and Baseline Characteristics for Studies 1, 2, 3 and 4 
Study 1 
CAMMS323  
(CARE-MS I) 
Study 2 
CAMMS32400507  
(CARE-MS II) 
Study 3 
CAMMS223 
Study name  
Study design 
Disease history 
Duration  
Study population 
Baseline characteristics 
Mean Age (years) 
Mean/Median Disease 
duration  
Mean duration of prior MS 
therapy (≥1 drug used) 
% receiving ≥2 prior MS 
therapies 
Mean EDSS score at 
baseline  
Study name 
Study design 
Study population 
Duration of extension 
Controlled, randomised, 
rater-blinded 
Controlled, randomised, rater and 
dose-blinded 
Patients with active MS, defined as at least 2 relapses 
within the prior 2 years. 
2 years 
Treatment-naïve patients 
Patients with inadequate response 
to prior therapy* 
Controlled, 
randomised, rater-
blinded 
Patients with active 
MS, defined as at least 
2 relapses within the 
prior 2 years and 1 or 
more contrast-
enhancing lesions 
3 years‡ 
Treatment- naïve 
patients 
33 
35 
32 
2.0/1.6 years 
4.5/3.8 years 
1.5/1.3 years 
None 
36 months 
None 
Not applicable 
2.0 
Not applicable 
1.9 
28% 
2.7 
Study 4 
CAMMS03409 
Uncontrolled, rater-blinded extension study 
Patients who participated in CAMMS223, CAMMS323, or CAMMS32400507 
(see baseline characteristics above) 
4 years 
*  Defined as patients having experienced at least 1 relapse during treatment with beta interferon or 
glatiramer acetate after having been on therapy with medicinal product for at least 6 months. 
 ‡   Study primary endpoint was scored at 3 years. Additional follow-up provided data through a median of 
4.8 years (maximum 6.7). 
Results for Studies 1 and 2 are shown in Table 3. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Key Clinical and MRI Endpoints from Studies 1 and 2 
Study name  
Clinical endpoints 
Relapse Rate1 
  Annualised Relapse rate (ARR) 
(95% CI) 
  Rate ratio (95% CI) 
  Risk reduction 
Disability1  
(Confirmed Disability Worsening [CDW] 2 
  Patients with 6-month CDW  
(95% CI) 
  Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Patients who are relapse free at Year 2 
(95% CI) 
Change from Baseline in EDSS at Year 23 
(95% CI) 
Study 1 
CAMMS323  
(CARE-MS I) 
Study 2 
CAMMS32400507  
(CARE-MS II) 
LEMTRADA 
12 mg 
(N=376) 
SC IFNB-1a 
(N=187) 
LEMTRADA 
12 mg 
(N=426) 
SC IFNB-1a 
(N=202) 
0.18  
(0.13, 0.23) 
0.39  
(0.29, 0.53) 
0.26  
(0.21, 0.33) 
0.52  
(0.41, 0.66) 
0.45 (0.32, 0.63)  
54.9 
(p<0.0001) 
0.51 (0.39, 0.65) 
49.4 
(p<0.0001) 
8.0%  
(5.7, 11.2) 
11.1%  
(7.3, 16.7) 
12.7%  
(9.9, 16.3) 
21.1% 
(15.9, 27.7) 
0.70 (0.40, 1.23) 
(p=0.22) 
0.58 (0.38, 0.87) 
(p=0.0084) 
77.6%  
(72.9, 81.6) 
(p<0.0001) 
58.7%  
(51.1, 65.5) 
65.4% 
(60.6, 69.7) 
(p<0.0001) 
46.7  
(39.5, 53.5) 
-0.14 (-0.25, -
0.02) 
(p=0.42) 
-0.14 (-0.29, 
0.01) 
-0.17 (-0.29, -
0.05) 
(p<0.0001) 
0.24 (0.07, 
0.41) 
MRI Endpoints (0-2 years) 
Median % change in MRI-T2 lesion volume 
Patients with new or enlarging T2 lesions 
through Year 2 
-9.3 (-19.6, -
0.2) 
(p=0.31) 
48.5%  
(p=0.035) 
Patients with Gadolinium enhancing lesions 
through Year 2 
15.4% 
(p=0.001) 
Patients with new T1 hypointense lesions 
through Year 2 
24.0% 
(p=0.055) 
Median % Change in Brain Parenchymal 
Fraction  
-0.867 
(p<0.0001) 
-6.5 (-20.7, 2.5) 
57.6% 
27.0% 
31.4% 
-1.488 
-1.3 
(p=0.14) 
46.2% 
(p<0.0001) 
18.5% 
(p<0.0001) 
19.9% 
(p<0.0001) 
-0.615 
(p=0.012) 
-1.2 
67.9% 
34.2% 
38.0% 
-0.810  
1   Co-primary endpoints: ARR & CDW. The study was declared successful if at least one of the two co-
primary endpoints was met. 
2  CDW was defined as an increase of at least 1 point on the expanded disability status scale (EDSS) from a 
baseline EDSS score ≥1.0 (1.5 point increase for patients with baseline EDSS of 0) that was sustained for 
6 months. 
3  Estimated using a mixed model for repeated measures. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Time to 6 Month Confirmed Disability Worsening in Study 2 
HR: 0.58 
p-value: 0.0084 
Alemtuzumab 
SC IFNB-1a 
W
D
C
h
t
i
w
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
30 
25 
20 
15 
10 
5 
0 
0 
3 
6 
9 
12 
15 
18 
21 
24 
Follow-up month 
Relapse severity 
In alignment with the effect on relapse rate, supportive analyses from Study 1 (CAMMS323) showed that 
LEMTRADA 12 mg/day led to significantly fewer LEMTRADA -treated patients experiencing severe 
relapses (61% reduction, p=0.0056) and signficantly fewer relapses that led to steroid treatment (58% 
reduction, p<0.0001) compared to IFNB-1a.  
Supportive analyses from Study 2 (CAMMS32400507) showed that LEMTRADA 12 mg/day led to 
significantly fewer LEMTRADA -treated patients experiencing severe relapses (48% reduction, p=0.0121), 
and significantly fewer relapses that led to steroid treatment (56% reduction, p<0.0001) or to hospitalization 
(55% reduction, p=0.0045) compared to IFNB-1a. 
Confirmed disability improvement (CDI) 
Time to onset of CDI was defined as a decrease of at least one point on the EDSS from a baseline EDSS 
score ≥ 2 that was sustained for at least 6 months. CDI is a measure for sustained disability improvement. 
29% of patients treated with LEMTRADA reached CDI in Study 2, while only 13% of subcutaneous IFNB-
1a treated patients reached this endpoint. The difference was statistically significant (p=0.0002). 
Study 3 (phase 2 study CAMMS223) evaluated the safety and efficacy of LEMTRADA in patients with 
RRMS over the course of 3 years. Patients had an EDSS from 0-3.0, at least 2 clinical episodes of MS in the 
prior 2 years, and ≥1 gadolinium-enhancing lesion at study entry. Patients had not received prior therapy for 
MS. Patients were treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg/day (N=108) or 24 mg/day (N=108) administered once 
per day for 5 days at month 0 and for 3 days at month 12 or subcutaneous IFNB-1a 44 µg (N=107) 
administered 3 times per week for 3 years. Forty-six patients received a third course of LEMTRADA 
treatment at 12 mg/day or 24 mg/day for 3 days at month 24.  
At 3 years, LEMTRADA reduced the risk of 6-month CDW by 76% (hazard ratio 0.24 [95% CI: 0.110, 
0.545], p<0.0006) and reduced the ARR by 67% (rate ratio 0.33 [95% CI: 0.196, 0.552], p<0.0001) as 
compared to subcutaneous IFNB-1a. LEMTRADA 12 mg/day led to significantly lower EDSS scores 
(improved compared to baseline) through 2 years of follow up, compared with IFNB-1a (p<0.0001). 
In the subgroup of RRMS patients with 2 or more relapses in the prior year and at least 1 Gd-enhanced T1 
lesion at baseline, the annualised relapse rate was 0.26 (95% CI: 0.20, 0.34) in the Lemtrada treated group (n 
= 205) and 0.51 (95% CI: 0.40, 0.64) in the IFNB-1a group (n = 102) (p<0.0001). This analysis includes data 
from Phase 3 studies only (CAMMS324 and CAMMS323) due to differences in the MRI acquisition 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
algorithms between the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies. These results were obtained from a post hoc analysis 
and should be interpreted cautiously. 
Long-term efficacy data 
Study 4, was a Phase 3, multicenter, open-label, rater-blinded, efficacy and safety extension study for 
patients with RRMS who participated in Study 1, 2, or 3 (prior phase 3 and 2 studies) to assess long-term 
efficacy and safety of LEMTRADA. The study provides efficacy and safety through a median of 6 years 
from entry into Studies 1 and 2. Patients in the extension study (Study 4) were eligible to receive additional 
as-needed LEMTRADA treatment course(s) upon documentation of resumed disease activity, defined as the 
occurrence of ≥1 MS relapse and/or ≥2 new or enlarging brain or spinal lesions on magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI). Additional course(s) of LEMTRADA were administered at 12 mg/day for 3 consecutive 
days (36 mg total dose) at least 12 months after the prior treatment course.  
91.8% of the patients treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg in Studies 1 and 2 entered Study 4. 82.7% of these 
patients completed the study. Approximately half (51.2%) of patients initially treated with LEMTRADA 
12 mg/day in Study 1 or 2 who enrolled in Study 4, received only the initial 2 courses of LEMTRADA and 
no other disease modifying treatment throughout 6 years of follow-up. 
46.6% of the patients initially treated with LEMTRADA 12 mg/day in Study 1 or 2 received additional 
courses upon documented evidence of MS disease activity (relapse and/or MRI) and the treating physician’s 
decision to retreat. No characteristics at study entry identified patients who would later receive one or more 
additional courses.  
Through 6 years from initial LEMTRADA treatment, patients continuing in follow-up showed rates of MS 
relapse, brain lesion formation on MRI, and brain volume loss consistent with LEMTRADA’s treatment 
effects during Studies 1 and 2 as well as predominantly stable or improved disability scores. Including 
follow-up in Study 4, patients originally treated with LEMTRADA in Studies 1 and 2, respectively, had 
ARRs 0.17 and 0.23, CDW was seen in 22.3% and 29.7%, while 32.7% and 42.5% achieved CDI. In each 
year of Study 4, patients from both studies continued to show a low risk of forming new T2 (27.4% to 
33.2%) or gadolinium-enhancing lesions (9.4% to 13.5%), and the median annual percent change in brain 
parenchymal fraction ranged from 0.19% to -0.09%. 
Among patients who received one or two additional LEMTRADA treatment courses, improvements were 
seen in relapse rate, MRI activity and mean disability scores following a first or second LEMTRADA 
retreatment (Courses 3 and 4) when compared with outcomes in the preceding year. For these patients, the 
ARR declined from 0.79 in the year prior to Course 3 to 0.18 one year after, and the mean EDSS score from 
2.89 to 2.69. The percentage of patients with new or enlarging T2 lesions declined from 50.8% the year prior 
to Course 3 to 35.9% one year after, and new gadolinium-enhancing lesions from 32.2% to 11.9%. Similar 
improvements in ARR, mean EDSS score, and T2 and gadolinium-enhancing lesions were seen after Course 
4 when compared with the prior year. These improvements were subsequently maintained, but no firm 
conclusions can be made with regards to the longer-term efficacy (e.g. 3 and 4 years after additional 
treatment courses) because many patients completed the study before reaching these time points. 
The benefits and risks of 5 or more treatment courses have not been established. 
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for immunogenicity. Data reflect the percentage of patients 
whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to alemtuzumab using an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and confirmed by a competitive binding assay. Positive samples were further 
evaluated for evidence of in vitro inhibition using a flow cytometry assay. Patients in clinical trials in MS 
had serum samples collected 1, 3, and 12 months after each treatment course for determination of anti-
alemtuzumab antibodies. Approximately 85% of patients receiving LEMTRADA tested positive for anti-
alemtuzumab antibodies during the study, with ≥90% of these patients testing positive also for antibodies 
that inhibited alemtuzumab binding in vitro. Patients who developed anti-alemtuzumab antibodies did so by 
15 months from initial exposure. Through 2 treatment courses, there was no association of the presence of 
anti-alemtuzumab or inhibitory anti-alemtuzumab antibodies with a reduction in efficacy, change in 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamics, or the occurrence of adverse reactions, including infusion associated reactions. High 
titer anti-alemtuzumab antibodies observed in some patients were associated with incomplete lymphocyte 
depletion following a third or fourth treatment course, but there was no clear impact of anti-alemtuzumab 
antibodies on the clinical efficacy or safety profile of LEMTRADA. 
The incidence of antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, 
the observed incidence of antibody (including inhibitory antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced 
by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant 
medicines, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to 
LEMTRADA with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
alemtuzumab in children from birth to less than 10 years in treatment of multiple sclerosis (see section 4.2 
for information on paediatric use). 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
LEMTRADA in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in RRMS (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use).  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The pharmacokinetics of alemtuzumab were evaluated in a total of 216 patients with RRMS who received 
intravenous infusions of either 12 mg/day or 24 mg/day on 5 consecutive days, followed by 3 consecutive 
days 12 months following the initial treatment course. Serum concentrations increased with each consecutive 
dose within a treatment course, with the highest observed concentrations occurring following the last 
infusion of a treatment course. Administration of 12 mg/day resulted in a mean Cmax of 3014 ng/ml on day 5 
of the initial treatment course, and 2276 ng/ml on day 3 of the second treatment course. The alpha half-life 
approximated 4-5 days and was comparable between courses leading to low or undetectable serum 
concentrations within approximately 30 days following each treatment course.  
Alemtuzumab is a protein for which the expected metabolic pathway is degradation to small peptides and 
individual amino acids by widely distributed proteolytic enzymes. Classical biotransformation studies have 
not been conducted.  
Conclusions cannot be made with available data on the effect of race and gender on the pharmacokinetics of 
alemtuzumab. The pharmacokinetics of alemtuzumab in RRMS has not been studied in patients aged 55 
years and older.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Carcinogenesis and mutagenesis  
There have been no studies to assess the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of alemtuzumab. 
Fertility and reproduction 
Treatment with intravenous alemtuzumab at doses up to 10 mg/kg/day, administered for 5 consecutive days 
(AUC of 7.1 times the human exposure at the recommended daily dose) had no effect on fertility and 
reproductive performance in male huCD52 transgenic mice. The number of normal sperm was significantly 
reduced (<10%) relative to controls and the percent abnormal sperm (detached heads or no heads) were 
significantly increased (up to 3%). However, these changes did not affect fertility and were therefore 
considered to be non-adverse. 
In female mice dosed with intravenous alemtuzumab up to 10 mg/kg/day (AUC of 4.7 times the human 
exposure at the recommended daily dose) for 5 consecutive days prior to cohabitation with wild-type male 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mice, the average number of corpora lutea and implantation sites per mouse were significantly reduced as 
compared to vehicle treated animals. Reduced gestational weight gain relative to the vehicle controls was 
observed in pregnant mice dosed with 10 mg/kg/day. 
A reproductive toxicity study in pregnant mice exposed to intravenous doses of alemtuzumab up to 
10 mg/kg/day (AUC 2.4 times the human exposure at the recommended dose of 12 mg/day) for 
5 consecutive days during gestation resulted in significant increases in the number of dams with all 
conceptuses dead or resorbed, along with a concomitant reduction in the number of dams with viable 
foetuses. There were no external, soft tissue, or skeletal malformations or variations observed at doses up to 
10 mg/kg/day. 
Placental transfer and potential pharmacologic activity of alemtuzumab were observed during gestation and 
following delivery in mice. In studies in mice, alterations in lymphocyte counts were observed in pups 
exposed to alemtuzumab during gestation at doses of 3 mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive days (AUC 0.6 times the 
human exposure at the recommended dose of 12 mg/day). Cognitive, physical, and sexual development of 
pups exposed to alemtuzumab during lactation were not affected at doses up to 10 mg/kg/day alemtuzumab. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Disodium phosphate dihydrate (E339) 
Disodium edetate dihydrate 
Potassium chloride (E508) 
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E340) 
Polysorbate 80 (E433) 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6.  
6.3  Shelf life  
Concentrate 
4 years 
Diluted solution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 8 hours at 2°C - 8°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, it is recommended that the product should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
should not be longer than 8 hours at 2°C - 8°C, under protection from light. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Concentrate 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
LEMTRADA is supplied in a clear, 2 ml glass vial, with a butyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal with a 
plastic flip-off cap.  
Pack size: carton with 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
The vial contents should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not 
use if particulate matter is present or the concentrate is discoloured.  
Do not shake the vials prior to use.  
For intravenous administration, withdraw 1.2 ml of LEMTRADA from the vial into a syringe using aseptic 
technique. Inject into 100 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion or glucose (5%) 
solution for infusion. This medicinal product must not be diluted with other solvents. The bag should be 
inverted gently to mix the solution. 
Care should be taken to ensure the sterility of the prepared solution. It is recommended that the diluted 
product be administered immediately. Each vial is intended for single use only. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi Belgium  
Leonardo Da Vincilaan 19  
B-1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/869/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 12 September 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 2 July 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG 
Birkendorfer Straße 65 
88397 Biberach an der Riss 
GERMANY 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release  
Genzyme Ireland Limited 
IDA Industrial Park 
Old Kilmeaden Road 
Waterford 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURSs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency. 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Educational programme 
Prior to launch in each Member State the MAH shall agree an educational programme for HCPs and patients 
with the National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following agreement with the National Competent Authorities in each Member 
State where LEMTRADA is marketed, at launch and after launch, all physicians who intend to prescribe 
LEMTRADA are provided with an updated physician educational pack containing the following elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
HCP guide 
Prescriber checklist  
Patient guide 
Patient alert card 
The HCP guide shall contain the following key messages: 
1.  LEMTRADA treatment should only be initiated and supervised by a neurologist experienced in the 
treatment of patients with multiple sclerosis in a hospital with ready access to intensive care. 
2. A description of the risks associated with the use of LEMTRADA namely: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) 
Nephropathies including anti-Glomerular Basement Membrane (anti-GBM) disease 
Thyroid disorders 
Serious infections 
Other secondary autoimmune or immune system diseases, including HLH, AIH,  acquired 
haemophilia A, Adult Onset Still’s disease (AOSD), and autoimmune encephalitis (AIE).  
Serious reactions temporally associated with LEMTRADA infusion, including myocardial 
ischaemia,  haemorrhagic stroke, cervico-cephalic arterial dissection and pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura 
Progressive Multifocal leukoencephalopathy  
3. Recommendations on how to mitigate these risks through appropriate patient counselling, monitoring and 
management. 
4. A “Frequently asked questions” section  
The prescriber checklist shall contain the following key messages: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4.  
Lists of tests to be conducted for the initial screening of the patient 
Vaccination course to be completed 6 weeks before treatment 
Premedication, general health, and pregnancy and contraception checks before treatment 
Infusion instructions (before, during and after) to reduce risk for serious reactions temporally 
associated with the Lemtrada infusion 
5. 
Monitoring activities during treatment and for at least 48 months after last treatment 
27 
 
 
6.  
A specific reference to the fact that the patient has been informed and understands the risks of 
serious autoimmune disorders, infections and malignancies, and the measures to minimize them 
The patient guide shall contain the following key messages: 
1. 
A description of the risks associated with the use of LEMTRADA namely: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) 
Nephropathies, including anti-Glomerular Basement Membrane (anti-GBM) disease 
Thyroid disorders 
Serious infections 
Other secondary autoimmune or immune system diseases, including HLH, AIH,  acquired 
haemophilia A, Adult Onset Still’s disease (AOSD), and autoimmune encephalitis (AIE).  
Serious reactions temporally associated with LEMTRADA infusion, including myocardial 
ischemia, hemorrhagic stroke, cervico-cephalic arterial dissection and pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia. 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura 
Progressive Multifocal leukoencephalopathy   
2. 
3. 
A description of the sign and symptoms of autoimmune risks  
A description of the best course of action if sign and symptoms of those risks present themselves 
(e.g. How to reach your doctors) 
4.  
Recommendations for the planning of the monitoring schedule 
The patient alert card shall contain the following key messages: 
1.  
A warning message for HCPs treating the patient at any time, including in conditions of emergency, 
that the patient has been treated with LEMTRADA  
2. 
That LEMTRADA treatment may increase the risk of: 
• 
• 
• 
Immune mediated reactions such as thyroid disorders, Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura 
(ITP). nephropathies, including anti-Glomerular Basement Membrane (anti-GBM) disease, 
autoimmune hepatitis (AIH), acquired haemophilia A, and HLH, TTP, PML 
Serious infections 
Serious reactions temporally associated with LEMTRADA infusion, including myocardial 
ischaemia,  haemorrhagic stroke, cervico-cephalic arterial dissection and pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage, thrombocytopenia 
3. 
Contact details of the prescriber of LEMTRADA 
28 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures:  
Description 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to investigate the 
incidence of mortality in patients treated with Lemtrada compared to a relevant 
patient population, the MAH shall submit the results of a post-authorisation safety 
study comparing Lemtrada to an adequate control. 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to assess 
compliance with the therapeutic indication and effectiveness of measures to minimise 
the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular adverse events in close temporal 
association with Lemtrada infusion and immune-mediated adverse reactions, the MAH 
shall submit the results of a drug utilisation study. 
Due date 
Q3 2024 
Q3 2024 
29 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON/PACK  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
LEMTRADA 12 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
alemtuzumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 12 mg of alemtuzumab in 1.2 ml (10 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
E339, disodium edetate dihydrate, E508, E340, E433, sodium chloride, water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
12 mg/1.2 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
Administer within 8 hours after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Store in a refrigerator. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze or shake.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi Belgium  
Leonardo Da Vincilaan 19  
B-1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/13/869/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: {number}  
SN: {number}  
NN: {number}  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL/VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
LEMTRADA 12 mg sterile concentrate  
alemtuzumab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1.2 ml  
6. 
OTHER  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
LEMTRADA 12 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
alemtuzumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are administered this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side-effects talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side-effects not listed in this 
leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What LEMTRADA is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are administered LEMTRADA 
3.  How LEMTRADA will be administered  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store LEMTRADA 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What LEMTRADA is and what it is used for 
LEMTRADA contains the active substance alemtuzumab, which is used to treat a form of multiple sclerosis 
(MS) in adults, called relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). LEMTRADA does not cure MS, but it 
can reduce the number of MS relapses. It can also help to slow down or reverse some of the signs and 
symptoms of MS. In clinical studies, patients treated with LEMTRADA had fewer relapses and were less 
likely to experience worsening of their disability compared to patients treated with a beta-interferon injected 
multiple times per week. 
LEMTRADA is used if your MS is highly active despite that you have been treated with at least one other 
medicine for MS or if your MS is rapidly evolving. 
What is multiple sclerosis? 
MS is an autoimmune disease that affects the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). In MS your 
immune system mistakenly attacks the protective layer (myelin) around the nerve fibres, causing 
inflammation. When the inflammation causes symptoms this is often called an “attack” or a “relapse”. In 
RRMS patients experience relapses followed by periods of recovery. 
The symptoms you experience are determined by which part of your central nervous system is affected. The 
damage done to your nerves during this inflammation may be reversible, but as your disease progresses the 
damage may accumulate and become permanent. 
How LEMTRADA works 
LEMTRADA adjusts your immune system to limit its attacks on your nervous system.  
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you are administered LEMTRADA 
Do not use LEMTRADA:  
− 
− 
− 
− 
if you are allergic to alemtuzumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
if you are suffering from a serious infection  
if you have any of the following conditions: 
o  other autoimmune disease besides multiple sclerosis 
o  uncontrolled high blood pressure 
o  history of tears in blood vessels supplying the brain 
o  history of stroke 
o  history of heart attack or chest pain 
o  history of bleeding disorder 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before LEMTRADA is given. After having a course of treatment with LEMTRADA you 
may be at greater risk of developing other autoimmune conditions, or experiencing serious infections. It is 
important you understand these risks and how to monitor for them. You will be given a Patient Alert Card 
and a Patient Guide with further information. It is important that you keep the Patient Alert Card with you 
during treatment and for 4 years after your last infusion with LEMTRADA, because side effects may occur 
many years after treatment. When you have medical treatment, even if it is not for your MS, show the Patient 
Alert Card to the doctor. 
Your doctor will perform blood tests before you start treatment with LEMTRADA. These tests are done to 
see whether you may take LEMTRADA. Your doctor will also want to make sure that you do not have 
certain medical conditions or disorders before you start your treatment with LEMTRADA. 
•  Autoimmune conditions 
Treatment with LEMTRADA may increase the risk for autoimmune conditions. These are conditions in 
which your immune system mistakenly attacks your body. Information about some specific conditions that 
have been seen in MS patients who have been treated with LEMTRADA is provided below. 
The autoimmune conditions can occur many years after treatment with LEMTRADA. Therefore, regular 
blood and urine tests are needed until 4 years after your last infusion. Testing is needed even if you are 
feeling well and your MS symptoms are under control. There are certain signs and symptoms that you should 
look out for yourself. In addition, these conditions may occur beyond 4 years, therefore, you must continue 
to look for signs and symptoms, even after you no longer need to do monthly blood and urine tests. Details 
about the signs and symptoms, testing, and actions you need to take are described in sections 2 and 4 – 
autoimmune conditions.   
More helpful information about these autoimmune conditions (and the testing for them) can be found in the 
LEMTRADA Patient Guide. 
Acquired haemophilia A 
o 
Uncommonly, patients developed a bleeding disorder caused by antibodies that work against 
factor VIII (a protein needed for normal clotting of blood), called acquired hemophilia A. This 
condition must be diagnosed and treated immediately. Symptoms of acquired hemophilia A are 
described in section 4. 
Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) 
o 
Commonly, patients have developed a bleeding disorder caused by a low level of blood 
platelets, called immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). This must be diagnosed and treated 
early, as otherwise the effects can be serious or even fatal. Signs and symptoms of ITP are 
described in section 4.  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kidney disease (such as anti-GBM disease) 
o 
Rarely, patients have experienced autoimmune related problems with their kidneys, such as anti-
glomerular basement membrane disease (anti-GBM disease). Signs and symptoms of kidney 
disease are described in section 4. If untreated it can cause kidney failure requiring dialysis or 
transplantation, and may lead to death.  
Thyroid disorders  
o 
Very commonly, patients have experienced an autoimmune disorder of the thyroid gland 
affecting its ability to make or control hormones that are important for your metabolism.  
LEMTRADA may cause different types of thyroid disorders, including: 
• 
• 
Over-active thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) when the thyroid produces too much 
hormone 
Under-active thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) when the thyroid does not produce 
enough hormone. 
Signs and symptoms of thyroid disorders are described in section 4. 
If you develop a thyroid disorder, in most cases you will need to be treated for the rest of your 
life with medicines to control your thyroid disorder, and in some cases your thyroid gland may 
have to be removed.  
It is very important that you are properly treated for a thyroid disorder, especially if you become 
pregnant after using LEMTRADA. Having an untreated thyroid disorder could harm your 
unborn baby, or harm your baby after birth. 
Liver inflammation 
o 
Some patients have developed liver inflammation after receiving LEMTRADA. Liver 
inflammation can be diagnosed from the blood tests that you will be having regularly after 
LEMTRADA treatment. If you develop one or more of the following symptoms report this to 
your doctor: nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, loss of appetite, yellow skin or eyes, 
dark urine, or bleeding or bruising more easily than normal. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) 
o 
A blood clotting disorder called Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP), can occur with 
LEMTRADA. Blood clots form in blood vessels and can happen in the entire body. Get medical 
help right away if you have any of the following symptoms: skin or mouth bruising that may 
appear as red pinpoint dots, with or without unexplained extreme tiredness, fever, confusion, 
speech changes, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), low amount of urine, dark colored urine. 
It is advised to seek medical attention urgently as TTP can be fatal (see section 4 ‘Possible side 
effects’). 
   Sarcoidosis 
o 
There have been reports of an immune system disorder (sarcoidosis) in patients treated with 
LEMTRADA. Symptoms can include persistent dry cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, fever, 
lymph node swelling, weight loss, skin rashes, and blurred vision 
o  Autoimmune Encephalitis 
Autoimmune encephalitis (an immune mediated brain disorder), can occur after receiving 
LEMTRADA. This condition may include symptoms such as behavioural and/or psychiatric 
changes, short term memory loss or seizures. The symptoms may resemble an MS relapse. If you 
develop one or more of these symptoms contact your doctor. 
o  Other autoimmune conditions  
Uncommonly, patients have experienced autoimmune conditions involving red blood cells or 
white blood cells. These can be diagnosed from the blood tests that you will be having regularly 
after LEMTRADA treatment. If you develop one of these conditions your doctor will tell you, 
and take appropriate measures to treat it.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion reactions 
• 
Most patients treated with LEMTRADA will experience side-effects at the time of the infusion or within 24 
hours after the infusion. To try to reduce infusion reactions, your doctor will give you other medicine(s) (see 
section 4 – infusion reactions). 
Other serious reactions occurring shortly after LEMTRADA infusion 
• 
Some patients have had serious or life-threatening reactions after LEMTRADA infusion, including bleeding 
in the lung, heart attack, stroke or tears in blood vessels supplying the brain. Reactions may occur following 
any of the doses during the treatment course. In the majority of cases reactions occurred within 1-3 days of 
the infusion. Your doctor will monitor vital signs, including blood pressure, before and during the infusion. 
Get help right away if you have any of the following symptoms: trouble breathing, coughing up blood, chest 
pain, facial drooping, sudden severe headache, weakness on one side of the body, difficulty with speech or 
neck pain. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
• 
Treatment with LEMTRADA may increase the risk of excessive activation of white blood cells associated 
with inflammation (haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis), which can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated 
early. If you experience multiple symptoms such as fever, swollen glands, bruising, or skin rash, contact your 
doctor immediately. 
Adult Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD) 
• 
AOSD is a rare condition that has the potential to cause multi-organ inflammation with several symptoms 
such as fever >39°C or 102.2°F lasting more than 1 week, pain, stiffness with or without swelling in multiple 
joints and/or a skin rash. If you experience a combination of these symptoms, contact your healthcare 
provider immediately.   
Infections 
• 
Patients treated with LEMTRADA are at a higher risk of getting a serious infection (see section 4 – 
infections). In general, the infections can be treated with standard medicines. 
In order to reduce the chance of getting an infection, your doctor will check if other medicines you are taking 
might be affecting your immune system. Therefore, it is important to tell your doctor about all medicines 
you are taking. 
Also, tell your doctor if you are suffering from a serious infection before the start of your LEMTRADA 
treatment as your doctor should delay the treatment until the infection is resolved. 
Patients treated with LEMTRADA are at a higher risk of developing herpes infection (e.g. a cold sore). In 
general, once a patient has had a herpes infection, they have an increased risk of developing another one. It is 
also possible to develop a herpes infection for the first time. It is recommended that your doctor prescribes a 
medicine to reduce the chance of developing a herpes infection, which should be taken on the days that you 
receive LEMTRADA treatment, and for one month following the treatment.  
In addition, infections which can result in abnormalities of the cervix (the neck of the womb) are possible. 
Therefore, it is recommended that all female patients have an annual screening performed, such as a cervical 
smear. Your doctor will explain to you what tests you will need. 
Infections with a virus called cytomegalovirus have been reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA. 
Most cases occurred within two months of alemtuzumab dosing. Tell your doctor right away if you have 
symptoms of infection such as fever, or swollen glands.  
Patients treated with LEMTRADA have had infections due to a virus called Epstein-Barr virus (EBV),  
including cases with severe and sometimes fatal liver inflammation. Tell your doctor right away if you have 
symptoms of infection such as fever, swollen glands, or fatigue.  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients treated with LEMTRADA are also at a higher risk of developing listeria infection (a bacterial 
infection caused by ingestion of contaminated foods). Listeria infection can cause serious illness, including 
meningitis, but can be treated with appropriate medicines. To reduce this risk, you should avoid eating 
uncooked or undercooked meats, soft cheeses and unpasteurized dairy products two weeks before treatment, 
during the treatment and for at least one month after LEMTRADA treatment. 
If you live in a region where tuberculosis infections are common, you may be at greater risk of infection 
with tuberculosis. Screening for tuberculosis will be arranged by your doctor. 
If you are a carrier of hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection (these affect the liver), extra caution is needed 
before you receive LEMTRADA treatment as it is unknown if treatment could lead to activation of the 
hepatitis infection which could subsequently damage your liver.  
There have been cases of a rare brain infection called PML (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy)in 
patients who have been given Lemtrada. PML has been reported in patients with other risk factors, 
specifically prior treatment with MS products associated with PML. 
PML may lead to severe disability over weeks or months and may be fatal.  
Symptoms may be similar to a relapse of MS and include progressive weakness  or clumsiness of limbs, 
disturbance of vision, speech difficulties or  changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to 
confusion and personality changes. It is important to inform your relatives or caregivers about your 
treatment, since they may notice symptoms that you are not aware of. Contact your doctor immediately if 
you develop any symptoms suggestive of PML. 
Pneumonitis and pericarditis 
• 
Pneumonitis (inflammation of lung tissue) has been reported in LEMTRADA treated patients. Most cases 
occurred within the first month after treatment with LEMTRADA. Cases of pericardial effusion (collection 
of fluid around the heart) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining around the heart) have also been 
reported in patients treated with LEMTRADA. You should report to your doctor symptoms like shortness of 
breath, cough, wheezing, chest pain or tightness and coughing up blood, as these could be caused by 
pneumonitis, pericardial effusion or pericarditis.  
Inflammation of the gallbladder  
• 
LEMTRADA may increase your chance of getting inflammation of the gallbladder. This may be a serious 
medical condition that can be life threatening. You should report to your doctor if you have symptoms such 
as stomach pain or discomfort, fever, nausea or vomiting.   
Previously diagnosed cancer 
• 
If you have been diagnosed with cancer in the past, please inform your doctor about it. 
Vaccines 
• 
It is not known if LEMTRADA affects your response to a vaccine. If you have not completed the standard 
required vaccinations, your doctor will consider whether you should have them before your LEMTRADA 
treatment. In particular, your doctor will consider vaccinating you against chickenpox if you have never had 
it. Any vaccination will need to be given to you at least 6 weeks before starting a LEMTRADA treatment 
course.  
You must NOT receive certain types of vaccines (live viral vaccines) if you have recently received 
LEMTRADA.  
Children and adolescents 
LEMTRADA is not intended to be used in children and adolescents below 18 years old as it has not been 
studied in MS patients below 18 years old. 
Other medicines and LEMTRADA 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other medicines 
(including any vaccinations or herbal medecines). 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Besides LEMTRADA, there are other treatments (including those for MS, or to treat other conditions) which 
could affect your immune system and so could affect your ability to fight infections. If you are using such a 
medicine, your doctor may ask you to stop this medicine before starting treatment with LEMTRADA.  
Pregnancy  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for advice 
before being given this medicine. 
Women who are able to conceive have to use effective contraception during each treatment course with 
LEMTRADA and for 4 months after each course of treatment. 
If you become pregnant after treatment with LEMTRADA and experience a thyroid disorder during 
pregnancy, extra caution is needed. Thyroid disorders could be harmful to the baby (see section 2 Warnings 
and precautions – autoimmune conditions). 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown if LEMTRADA can be transferred to a baby through breast milk, but there is a possibility that 
it could be. It is recommended that you do not breast-feed during each course of treatment with 
LEMTRADA and for 4 months after each treatment course. However, there may be benefits of breast milk 
(which can help protect a baby from infections), so talk to your doctor if you are planning to breast-feed your 
baby. He/She will advise you what is right for you and your baby. 
Fertility 
During your treatment course and for 4 months afterwards, you may have LEMTRADA in your body. It is 
not known if LEMTRADA will have an effect on fertility during this period. Talk to your doctor if you are 
thinking about trying to become pregnant. There is no evidence that LEMTRADA has an impact on male 
fertility.  
Driving and using machines  
Many patients experience side effects at the time of the infusion or within 24 hours after the infusion with 
LEMTRADA, and some of these, for example dizziness, could make it unsafe to drive or use machines. If 
affected, stop these activities until you feel better. 
LEMTRADA contains potassium and sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol potassium (39 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘potassium- 
free’. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per infusion, i.e. it is essentially ‘sodium- free’. 
3. 
How LEMTRADA will be administered 
Your doctor will explain to you how LEMTRADA will be given. Ask your doctor if you have any questions. 
The initial treatment you will receive will consist of one infusion per day for 5 days (course 1) and one 
infusion per day for 3 days one year later (course 2). 
There is no LEMTRADA treatment between the two courses. Two treatment courses may reduce MS activity 
for up to 6 years. 
Some patients, if they have symptoms or signs of MS disease after the initial two courses, may receive one or 
two additional treatment courses consisting of one infusion per day for 3 days . These additional treatment 
courses may be administered  twelve months or more after the prior treatments. 
The maximum daily dose is one infusion. 
LEMTRADA will be given to you as an infusion into a vein. Each infusion will take approximately 4 hours. 
Monitoring for side effects and regular testing must continue for 4 years after the last infusion. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To help you better understand the duration of the effects of treatment and the length of required follow-up, 
please refer to the diagram below. 
Follow-up after treatment with LEMTRADA  
Once you have received LEMTRADA, you will need to undergo regular tests to ensure that any potential 
side effects can be diagnosed and treated promptly. These tests must continue until 4 years after your last 
infusion and are described in section 4 most important side-effects.  
If you are given more LEMTRADA than you should receive 
Patients who were accidentally given too much LEMTRADA in one infusion have experienced serious 
reactions, such as headache, rash, low blood pressure or increased heart rate. Doses higher than the 
recommended dose may result in more serious or longer lasting infusion reactions (see section 4) or a 
stronger effect on the immune system. The treatment consists of stopping LEMTRADA administration and 
treating the symptoms. 
Missed LEMTRADA doses 
It is unlikely that your dose would be missed since it is administered by a health care professional. 
Nevertheless, please note that in case of missed dose, this should not be given on the same day as a scheduled 
dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
• 
The most important side effects are the autoimmune conditions described in section 2 which include: 
• 
Acquired haemophilia A (a type of bleeding disorder), (uncommon - may affect up to 1 in 100 
people): may show as spontaneous bruising, nose bleeds, painful or swollen joints, other types of 
bleeding, or bleeding from a cut that may take longer than usual to stop. 
ITP (bleeding disorders), (common – may affect up to 1 in 10 people): may show as small scattered 
red, pink or purple spots on your skin; easy bruising; bleeding from a cut that is harder to stop; heavier, 
longer or more frequent menstrual periods than normal; bleeding between menstrual periods; bleeding 
from your gums or nose that is new or takes longer than usual to stop; or coughing up blood. 
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), (rare-may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): may show 
as skin or mouth bruising, that may appear as red pinpoint dots, with or without unexplained extreme 
tiredness, fever, confusion, speech changes, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), low amount of 
urine, dark colored urine.  
kidney disorders, (rare – may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): may show as blood in the urine (your 
urine may be red or tea-coloured), or as swelling in your legs or feet. It can also lead to damage of your 
lungs, which can result in coughing up blood. 
• 
• 
42 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you notice any of these signs or symptoms for bleeding or kidney disorders, call your doctor 
immediately to report the symptoms. If you cannot reach your doctor, you must seek immediate 
medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
thyroid disorders (very common – may affect more than 1 in 10 people): may show as excessive 
sweating; unexplained weight-loss or gain; eye swelling; nervousness; fast heartbeat; feeling cold; 
worsening tiredness; or newly occurring constipation. 
red and white blood cells disorders (uncommon – may affect up to 1 in 100 people): diagnosed from 
your blood tests. 
sarcoidosis (uncommon – may affect up to 1 in 100 people): symptoms can include persistent dry 
cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, fever, lymph node swelling, weight loss, skin rashes, and 
blurred vision. 
autoimmune encephalitis (uncommon – may affect up to 1 in 100 people): may include symptoms 
such as behavioural and/or psychiatric changes, short term memory loss or seizures. The symptoms 
may resemble an MS relapse. 
All of these serious side effects can start many years after you have received LEMTRADA. If you notice 
any of these signs or symptoms, call your doctor right away to report them. You will also have regular 
blood and urine tests to ensure that if you develop any of these conditions, they are treated promptly.  
Summary of tests you will have for autoimmune conditions: 
Test 
Blood test  
(to diagnose all 
important serious side 
effects listed above) 
Urine test  
(additional test to 
diagnose kidney 
disorders) 
When? 
For how long? 
Before treatment starts and every 
month after treatment  
Until 4 years after your last 
LEMTRADA infusion  
Before treatment starts and every 
month after treatment 
Until 4 years after your last 
LEMTRADA infusion 
After this time, if you have symptoms of ITP, acquired haemophilia A, TTP, kidney or thyroid disorders, 
your doctor will perform more tests. You should also continue looking for signs and symptoms of side effects 
beyond four years as detailed in your patient guide, and you should continue carrying the Patient Alert Card 
with you. 
Another side effect is an increased risk of infections (see below for information on how often patients 
experience infections). In most cases, these are mild but serious infections can occur.  
Tell your doctor right away if you have any of these signs of infection  
• 
• 
fever and/or chills 
swollen glands 
To help reduce the risk of some infections your doctor may consider giving you vaccination against 
chickenpox and/or other vaccinations that they think are necessary for you (see section 2: What you need to 
know before you are administered LEMTRADA - Vaccines). Your doctor can also prescribe a medicine for 
cold sores (see section 2: What you need to know before you are administered LEMTRADA – Infections). 
The most frequent side effects are infusion reactions (see below for information on how often patients 
experience these), which can happen at the time of the infusion or within 24 hours after the infusion. In most 
cases these are mild but some serious reactions are possible. Occasionally allergic reactions could occur.  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To try to reduce infusion reactions, your doctor will give you medicine (corticosteroids) before each of the 
first 3 infusions of a LEMTRADA course. Other treatments to limit these reactions can also be given before 
the infusion or when you experience symptoms. In addition, you will be monitored during the infusion and 
for 2 hours after the infusion has been completed. In case of serious reactions, the infusion may be slowed 
down or even stopped. 
Please refer to the LEMTRADA Patient Guide for more information about these events.  
These are the side effects that you may experience: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Infusion reactions that can happen at the time of the infusion or within 24 hours after the infusion: 
changes in heart rate, headache, rash, rash over your body, fever, hives, chills, itching, reddening of 
the face and neck, feeling tired, nausea 
Infections: airway infections such as colds and sinus infections, urinary tract infections, herpes 
infections 
Decrease in white blood cell numbers (lymphocytes, leukocytes, neutrophils) 
Thyroid disorders such as over-active or under-active thyroid gland 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Infusion reactions that can happen at the time of the infusion or within 24 hours after the infusion: 
indigestion, chest discomfort, pain, dizziness, altered taste, difficulty sleeping, difficulty breathing or 
shortness of breath, low blood pressure, infusion site pain. 
Infections: cough, ear infection, flu-like illness, bronchitis, pneumonia, oral thrush or vaginal thrush, 
shingles, cold sore, swollen or enlarged glands, influenza, herpes zoster infection, tooth infection 
Increase in white blood cells counts such as neutrophils, eosinophils (different types of white blood 
cells) anaemia, decrease in percentage of red blood cells, easy or excessive bruising or bleeding, 
swelling of lymph nodes 
exaggerated immune response 
pain in the back, the neck, or in arms or legs, muscle pain, muscle spasms, joint pain, painful mouth or 
throat 
inflammation of the mouth/gums/tongue  
general discomfort, weakness, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, gastric flu, hiccups 
abnormal liver test 
heartburn 
abnormalities that can be found during examinations: blood or protein in urine, decreased heart rate, 
irregular or abnormal heart beat, high blood pressure, impaired kidney function, white blood cells in 
urine  
contusion 
MS relapse 
trembling, loss of sensation, burning or prickling sensation  
autoimmune over-active or under-active thyroid gland, thyroid antibodies or goitre (swelling of the 
thyroid gland in the neck) 
swelling of arms and/or legs 
vision problems, conjunctivitis, eye disease associated with thyroid disease 
sensation of spinning or loss of balance, migraine 
feelings of anxiety, depression 
abnormally heavy, prolonged or irregular menstruation 
acne, redness of the skin, excessive sweating, skin discoloration, skin lesion, dermatitis 
nose bleeds, bruises  
hair loss 
asthma 
muscular and bone pain, chest discomfort 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
Infections: stomach flu, inflammation of the gums, nail fungus, tonsil inflammation, acute sinusitis, 
bacterial skin infection,  cytomegalovirus infection 
pneumonitis 
athlete’s foot 
abnormal vaginal smear 
increased sensation, sensory disturbance such as numbness, tingling and pain, tension headache 
double vision 
pain in ear 
difficulty swallowing, throat irritation, productive cough 
decreased weight, weight increase, red blood cell decrease, blood glucose increase, increase in red 
blood cell size 
constipation, acid reflex, dry mouth 
rectal bleeding 
bleeding of gums 
decreased appetite 
blisters, night sweats, face swelling, eczema 
stiffness, arms or legs discomfort 
kidney stones, excretion of ketone bodies in urine, kidney disease 
decreased/weak immune system 
tuberculosis 
inflammation of the gallbladder with or without gallstones  
warts  
autoimmune disorder characterized by bleeding (acquired haemophilia A) 
Sarcoidosis 
autoimmune brain disorder (autoimmune encephalitis) 
patches of skin that have lost colour (vitiligo) 
autoimmune patchy hair loss (alopecia areata) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
• 
excessive activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis) 
autoimmune blood clotting disorder (thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, TTP) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
listeriosis/listeria meningitis 
bleeding in lungs 
heart attack  
stroke  
tears in carotid or vertebral arteries (blood vessels supplying the brain) 
infection due to a virus known as Epstein-Barr virus 
inflammatory condition that affects multiple organs, Adult Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD)   
Show the Patient Alert Card and this package leaflet to any doctor involved with your treatment, not only to 
your neurologist. 
You will also find this information in the Patient Alert Card and Patient Guide that you have been given by 
your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. 
You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting 
side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store LEMTRADA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the vial label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package to protect from light. 
It is recommended that the product is used immediately after dilution, due to a possible risk for microbial 
contamination. If it is not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and should not be longer than 8 hours at 2oC to 8oC, under protection from light. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What LEMTRADA contains  
The active substance is alemtuzumab. 
Each vial contains 12 mg alemtuzumab in 1.2 ml. 
The other ingredients are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
disodium phosphate dihydrate (E339) 
disodium edetate dihydrate 
potassium chloride (E508) 
potassium dihydrogen phosphate (E340) 
polysorbate 80 (E433) 
sodium chloride 
water for injections 
What LEMTRADA looks like and contents of the pack 
LEMTRADA is a clear, colourless to slightly yellow concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile 
concentrate) that comes in a glass vial with stopper.  
There is 1 vial in each carton. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Sanofi Belgium  
Leonardo Da Vincilaan 19  
B-1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Genzyme Ireland Limited 
IDA Industrial Park 
Old Kilmeaden Road 
Waterford 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxemburg/Luxembourg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
Sanofi, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi Belgium  
Tel: +49 (0) 6102 3674 451  
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ 
Tel. +372 640 10 30 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel. +370 5 236 91 40 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi  S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 - 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel.: +421 2 208 33 600 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 201 200 300 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800536389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
To assist in the education of patients regarding potential side-effects and instructions on what to do in case of 
certain side-effects, the following risk minimisation materials are available: 
1 Patient Alert Card: For the patient to present to other healthcare providers to alert them to the use of 
2 Patient Guide: 
LEMTRADA in this patient. 
For further information on autoimmune reactions, infections and other information. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Information on risk minimisation – autoimmune conditions 
• 
It is extremely important that your patient understands the commitment to having periodic testing 
performed (for 4 years after last infusion) even if they are asymptomatic and their MS disease is well 
controlled. 
•  Together with your patient you need to plan and manage their periodic monitoring. 
• 
If non-compliant, patients may need further counseling to highlight the risks of missing scheduled 
monitoring tests. 
•  You should monitor their test results and remain vigilant for symptoms of adverse events. 
•  Review the LEMTRADA Patient Guide and Package Leaflet with your patient. Remind the patient 
to remain vigilant for symptoms related to autoimmune conditions, and to seek medical help if they 
have any concerns.  
Educational Materials for Healthcare Providers are also available: 
•  LEMTRADA Health Care Professional Guide 
•  LEMTRADA Training Module 
•  LEMTRADA Prescriber’s Check-list 
Read the summary of product characteristics (available at the EMA website mentioned above) for more 
information. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on preparing to administer LEMTRADA and patient monitoring 
•  Patients should be premedicated with corticosteroids immediately prior to LEMTRADA infusion for 
the first 3 days on any treatment course. Pretreatment with antihistamines and/or antipyretics prior to 
LEMTRADA administration may also be considered. 
•  An oral anti-herpes agent should be administered to all patients during and for 1 month following 
treatment. In clinical trials, patients were administered acyclovir 200 mg twice a day or equivalent. 
•  Complete baseline tests and screening as described in SmPC section 4. 
•  The vial contents should be inspected for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not use if particulate matter is present or the concentrate is discoloured.  
DO NOT SHAKE VIALS PRIOR TO USE. 
•  Use aseptic techniques to withdraw 1.2 ml of LEMTRADA from the vial and inject into 100 ml of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion or glucose (5%) solution for infusion. The bag 
should be inverted gently to mix the solution. Care should be taken to ensure the sterility of the 
prepared solution. 
•  Administer LEMTRADA infusion solution via intravenous administration over approximately 4 
hours. 
•  Other medicinal products should not be added to the LEMTRADA infusion solution or 
simultaneously infused though the same intravenous line. 
• 
It is recommended that the product is used immediately after dilution, due to a possible risk for 
microbial contamination. If it is not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to 
use are the responsibility of the user and should not be longer than 8 hours at 2oC to 8oC, under 
protection from light.  
•  Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be observed. Any spillage or waste material 
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
After each infusion, the patient should be observed for 2 hours for infusion associated reactions.  
Symptomatic treatment can be initiated if needed – see SmPC. Continue to test the patient every 
month for autoimmune conditions, until 4 years after last infusion. See LEMTRADA Health Care 
Professional Guide for more information, or read the summary of product characteristics available at 
the EMA website mentioned above. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
