Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Background information 
During the assessment of the periodic safety update report (PSUSA) for Lemtrada 
(EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010055/201809), the following new emerging and serious safety concerns were 
highlighted in addition to the known safety profile of alemtuzumab, which raised major concerns to the 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC):  
- Fatal cases: Several fatal cases were identified during the PSUSA procedure, which indicate that the 
current recommendations for monitoring may be insufficient. 
- Cardiovascular adverse events in close temporal association with Lemtrada infusions (e.g. cardiac 
ischaemia and myocardial infarction, ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke, arterial dissection, 
pulmonary haemorrhage and embolism, vasculitis and thrombocytopenia), including a possible 
mechanistic relation to these adverse events. 
- Immune-mediated diseases such as auto-immune hepatitis, hepatic injury, auto-immune-mediated 
central nervous system disease and Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS).  
Limited information, including lack of detailed information on the individual cases, was available on 
these concerns during the PSUSA assessment, precluding a thorough evaluation.  
On 10 April 2019 the European Commission (EC) therefore triggered a procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data and requested the PRAC to assess 
the above safety concerns and their impact on the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada and to issue a 
recommendation on whether the relevant marketing authorisation should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or revoked. 
Provisional measures were introduced at the start of procedure to protect patients while the detailed 
evaluation was ongoing. As a provisional measure, it was recommended that new treatment with 
Lemtrada should only be initiated in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least two other disease modifying 
treatments, or in adult patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis where all other 
disease modifying treatments are contraindicated or otherwise unsuitable. 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
The efficacy of alemtuzumab in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis patients across multiple 
parameters of the disease is well established and maintained over long term follow up. This level of 
efficacy is present across a wide range of patient populations, as evidenced by the consistency of 
findings across various subgroups of participants in alemtuzumab clinical studies. 
As part of the current review, a number of serious, life-threatening and disabling risks associated with 
Lemtrada have been assessed. Acute coronary syndrome and cerebrovascular events including arterial 
dissection and haemorrhagic stroke, pulmonary haemorrhage and transient thrombocytopenia have 
been identified as risks in close temporal association with the infusion of alemtuzumab. These risks are 
considered to be related to cytokine release syndrome, which has been described in the literature for 
alemtuzumab1,2. 
1 Wing MG et al.  Mechanism of first-dose cytokine-release syndrome by CAMPATH 1-H: involvement of CD16 
(FcgammaRIII) and CD11a/CD18 (LFA-1) on NK cells. J Clin Invest 1996;98(12):2819-2826 
2 
 
 
 
                                               
Following the review, it has been reconfirmed that Lemtrada causes secondary autoimmune disease 
including auto-immune hepatitis, thyroiditis, immune thrombocytopenic purpura, acquired haemophilia 
A, nephropathies, cytopenias and serious immunological reactions such as haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis. Cases of poly-autoimmunity associated with Lemtrada have also been identified. 
During the procedure, other new adverse reactions were identified which are also considered related to 
Lemtrada such as Epstein-Barr virus re-activation. 
One general characteristic of alemtuzumab which impacts on its safety profile and on risk management 
is the very long treatment effect, and thereby the infrequent administration regimen. Thus, due to the 
long term effect of alemtuzumab, treatment discontinuation has limited value from a risk management 
perspective.  
No surrogate or biomarker for patients at risk for serious cytokine release or autoimmunity was 
identified. Therefore many of the newly-identified risks associated to Lemtrada are unpredictable and 
largely unavoidable. In such circumstances it is necessary to restrict use of the alemtuzumab to 
patients who can benefit the most from treatment and who may be ready to accept the serious risks 
associated with treatment. This includes not just a restricted therapeutic indication but also 
contraindications in subpopulations anticipated, due to risk factors, to be at higher risk of developing 
the serious adverse reactions.  
In this context, and taking also into account the advice of the SAG, PRAC concluded that Lemtrada 
should be indicated as a single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy (DMT) or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI 
or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
With this conclusion, PRAC acknowledges that early initiation of high-efficacy DMTs in patients with 
highly active (aggressive) or rapidly evolving RRMS is increasingly viewed as a strategy to prevent or 
postpone irreversible damage that occurs early in the disease course3. Recent studies of RRMS with 
long-term follow-up have shown that disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) reduce the proportion of 
patients who progress to SPMS compared to the proportion of untreated patients who progress.  
Furthermore, when selecting the most appropriate and effective treatment for the patient, the safety 
profile and the possibility to manage risks effectively should also be taken into consideration. 
Vulnerable patient groups such as patients with severe active infections until complete resolution, 
uncontrolled hypertension, a history of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries, of stroke, 
angina pectoris or myocardial infarction and patients with known coagulopathy, on anti-platelet or anti-
coagulant therapy, should be contraindicated. Patients with other concomitant autoimmune diseases 
(besides MS) should also be contraindicated to minimise the risk of development of additional 
autoimmune disorders. 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of patients before, during and after the infusion of 
alemtuzumab, rapid diagnosis and prompt and adequate treatment of the above mentioned risks, the 
infusion of alemtuzumab should take place in a hospital with availability of experts and adequate 
2 Thomas K, Eisele J, Rodriguez-Leal FA, Hainke U, Ziemssen T. Acute effects of  alemtuzumab infusion in patients with 
active relapsing-remitting MS. Neurol Neuroimmunol  Neuroinflamm. 2016 Apr 29;3(3):e228 
3 Fernandez O et al, 2017 Is there a change of paradigm towards more effective treatment early in the course of apparent 
high-risk MS? Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2017 Oct;17:75-83. 
3 
 
                                                                                                                                                     
equipment to manage the risks. The MAH proposed to include also specialised infusion centres with 
ready access to intensive care. Specialists from other medical disciplines (e.g. cardiologists) and 
equipment for timely diagnosis and management of adverse reactions however requires, in the view of 
PRAC, a hospital setting. The PRAC considered a recommendation for a longer follow-up period in 
hospital (for up to 5 days after the last infusion) to allow for prompt identification and management of 
serious adverse reactions that may occur. However it was ultimately considered that this long 
hospitalisation may not be feasible and that, as highlighted by the SAG, there is limited data to 
indicate it will have a substantial impact in the management of post-infusion adverse reactions.  
New infusion instructions are also proposed to allow early identification and management of serious 
adverse reactions temporally associated with infusion. In addition to close monitoring of cardiovascular 
function before, during and after the infusion, this also includes new recommendations for platelet 
count measurement during the infusion cycle and for post-infusion monthly liver transaminase testing.   
Currently, safety follow-up of patients is recommended from initiation of the first treatment course and 
until 48 months after the last treatment course. However, in individual cases autoimmune conditions 
may occur or be diagnosed later so healthcare professionals should be aware of this possibility. 
Cases of pulmonary embolism, vasculitis, central nervous system autoimmune disease and Guillain-
Barre Syndrome (GBS) have been reported. The current evidence is insufficient to conclude on a causal 
relationship with Lemtrada. There are uncertainties about a potential causal relationship with a number 
of other autoimmune adverse events reported in temporal association with Lemtrada, and these will 
have to continue to be closely monitored in the future. 
In future PSURs, the MAH is expected to submit cumulative reviews and discuss the following safety 
concerns: vasculitis, CNS inflammation, GBS, diabetes type 1, myasthenic syndrome, myositis, 
sarcoidosis, GBS, pneumonitis and EBV hepatitis. 
A matter of concern is the post-marketing reporting rate of fatalities, including those with short latency 
after alemtuzumab infusion. The relative young age of patients who died within a short period (30 
days) from Lemtrada treatment is also noted. A post authorisation safety study is needed to address 
these concerns. 
A study is also needed to assess the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures adopted during 
this review. Considering the serious and unpredictable nature of the newly-identified adverse reactions, 
it is important to understand whether the newly implemented measures are adhered to in clinical 
practice.   
The MAH for Lemtrada will also disseminate a DHPC to inform healthcare professionals of the outcome 
of this review, and the educational material for both healthcare professionals and patients will be 
updated. 
In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada remains favourable 
subject to changes to the product information, the educational materials and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities described above. As a consequence, PRAC recommended the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation for Lemtrada. 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for Lemtrada. 
4 
 
 
• 
• 
PRAC reviewed data currently available from post-marketing setting and from clinical trials on 
fatal cases, cardiovascular adverse events in close temporal association with Lemtrada 
infusions and immune-mediated diseases, including data provided in writing and at an oral 
explanation. PRAC also considered the views expressed by the neurology scientific advisory 
group. 
PRAC concluded that myocardial ischaemia, myocardial infarction, haemorrhagic stroke, 
dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries, pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage and 
thrombocytopenia may occur in close temporal association with the infusion of Lemtrada. PRAC 
also concluded that alemtuzumab is associated with immune-mediated diseases such as 
autoimmune hepatitis, haemophilia A and haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), which 
can happen with a delay of months to years after the latest treatment. PRAC noted that these 
risks, which are serious and which can in some cases have a fatal outcome, are largely 
unpredictable. 
•  As a consequence, PRAC recommended that treatment with Lemtrada should be restricted to 
patients with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for the following patient 
groups: 
o  patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with 
at least one disease modifying therapy, or  
o  patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 
or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing 
lesions on brain MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a 
previous recent MRI. 
• 
Lemtrada should also be contraindicated in patients with: 
o 
severe active infections until complete resolution,  
o  uncontrolled hypertension,  
o  history of arterial dissection of the cervicocephalic arteries,  
o  history of stroke,  
o  history of angina pectoris or myocardial infarction,  
o 
o 
coagulopathy, on antiplatelet or anti-coagulant therapy  
concomitant autoimmune diseases other than multiple sclerosis.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Furthermore, PRAC recommended that Lemtrada should only be administered in a hospital 
setting with ready access to intensive care. 
PRAC also made additional recommendations for monitoring of patients before, during and 
after infusion to ensure timely diagnosis and management of adverse reactions. 
The PRAC considered that given the serious and unpredictable nature of the risks, and that 
effective risk minimisation is key to support a positive benefit-risk balance, a drug utilisation 
study is necessary to assess effectiveness of risk minimisation measures. 
PRAC also considered that the data currently available on mortality incidence is limited and 
therefore the MAH shall investigate the incidence of mortality in patients treated with Lemtrada 
compared with a relevant patient population. 
5 
 
In view of the above, PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Lemtrada remains favourable 
subject to changes to the product information, the educational materials and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities described above. 
As a consequence, PRAC recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Lemtrada. 
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation.  
6 
 
 
 
