EMA/556765/2020 
EMEA/H/C/004857 
Lenalidomide Accord (lenalidomide) 
An overview of Lenalidomide Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lenalidomide Accord and what is it used for? 
Lenalidomide Accord is a medicine used for the treatment of multiple myeloma (cancer of a type of 
white blood cells called plasma cells) and follicular lymphoma (cancer of another type of white blood 
cells called B lymphocytes).  
In multiple myeloma, Lenalidomide Accord is used: 
• 
• 
• 
in adults who have had a stem cell transplant (a procedure where the patient’s bone marrow is 
cleared of cells and replaced by stem cells from a donor); 
in adults with previously untreated (newly diagnosed) multiple myeloma, who cannot have a stem 
cell transplant. It is used in combination with dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, 
or melphalan and prednisone; 
in adults whose disease has been treated at least once. It is used in combination with 
dexamethasone. 
In follicular lymphoma, Lenalidomide Accord is used in adults who have already been treated for their 
disease. It is used with the medicine rituximab. 
Lenalidomide Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Lenalidomide Accord contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU 
called Revlimid. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
How is Lenalidomide Accord used? 
Lenalidomide Accord is available as capsules of various strengths to be taken by mouth. The medicine 
can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be monitored by doctors who have 
experience in the use of cancer medicines. 
Treatment is given in cycles, with Lenalidomide Accord being used once a day on certain days of the 
cycles. Treatment cycles are continued until the disease is no longer being controlled or side effects 
become unacceptable. The dose of Lenalidomide Accord depends on the disease it is being used for, 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the patient’s overall health and blood test results. The dose may need to be reduced or treatment 
interrupted in case of certain side effects.  
For more information about using Lenalidomide Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Lenalidomide Accord work? 
The active substance in Lenalidomide Accord, lenalidomide, is an immunomodulator. This means that it 
affects the activity of the immune system (the body’s natural defences). Lenalidomide works in several 
ways: it blocks the development of abnormal cells, prevents the growth of blood vessels within 
tumours and also stimulates specialised cells of the immune system to attack the abnormal cells. 
How has Lenalidomide Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Revlimid, and do not need to be repeated for Lenalidomide 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Lenalidomide Accord. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lenalidomide Accord? 
Because Lenalidomide Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Lenalidomide Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Lenalidomide 
Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Revlimid. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Revlimid, the benefit of Lenalidomide Accord outweighs the identified 
risk and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lenalidomide Accord? 
The company that markets Lenalidomide Accord will provide a letter and educational kits for healthcare 
professionals, and brochures for patients, explaining that the medicine can be harmful to the unborn 
child and detailing the steps that need to be taken for the medicine to be used safely. It will also 
supply cards to patients about the safety measures patients should take.  
The company has also set up a pregnancy prevention programme in each Member State and will collect 
information on the medicine’s use outside its authorised uses. The boxes containing Lenalidomide 
Accord capsules also include a warning stating that lenalidomide can be harmful to the unborn child. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lenalidomide Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Lenalidomide Accord (lenalidomide)  
EMA/556765/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lenalidomide Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Lenalidomide Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Lenalidomide Accord 
Lenalidomide Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 September 
2018. 
Further information on Lenalidomide Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lenalidomide-accord. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2020. 
Lenalidomide Accord (lenalidomide)  
EMA/556765/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
