EMA/422762/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005348 
Lenalidomide Krka (lenalidomide) 
An overview of Lenalidomide Krka and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lenalidomide Krka and what is it used for? 
Lenalidomide Krka is a medicine used for the treatment of certain cancers and serious conditions 
affecting blood cells and bone marrow, namely multiple  myeloma, myelodysplastic syndromes, mantle 
cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. 
In multiple myeloma, a cancer of a type of white  blood cells called plasma cells, Lenalidomide Krka is 
used: 
• 
• 
• 
in adults with  previously untreated (newly diagnosed) multiple  myeloma, who have had an 
autologous stem cell transplant  (a procedure where the patient’s bone marrow is cleared of cells 
and replaced with  the patient’s own stem cells to form new bone marrow); 
in adults with  previously untreated multiple myeloma, who cannot  have stem cell transplantation. 
It is used in combination with  dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, or melphalan 
and prednisone; 
in adults whose disease has been treated at least once. It  is used in combination with 
dexamethasone. 
In myelodysplastic syndromes, a group of bone marrow disorders that cause anaemia (low red 
blood cell counts),  Lenalidomide Krka is used in patients who need blood transfusions to  manage their 
anaemia. It is used in patients with  a genetic change (called deletion 5q) when other treatments are 
not adequate.  
In mantle  cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma, blood cancers that  affect a type of white blood 
cell called B lymphocytes, Lenalidomide Krka is used in adults whose disease has come back after 
treatment or does not  improve with treatment. In follicular lymphoma it  is used in  combination with 
rituximab.  
Lenalidomide Krka contains the active substance lenalidomide and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that  Lenalidomide Krka contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU  called Revlimid. For  more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Lenalidomide Krka used? 
Lenalidomide Krka can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment  should be supervised by 
doctors who have experience in the  use of cancer medicines.  
Lenalidomide Krka is available as capsules of various strengths to be taken by mouth.  Treatment is 
given in cycles, with  the medicine being used once a day on certain days of the cycles. Treatment 
cycles are continued until  the disease is no longer being controlled or side effects become 
unacceptable. The dose depends on the disease it is being used for, the  patient’s overall health and 
blood test results. The dose may need to be reduced or treatment  interrupted in case of certain side 
effects. 
For more information about using Lenalidomide Krka, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lenalidomide Krka work? 
The active substance in Lenalidomide Krka, lenalidomide, is an immunomodulator. This means that  it 
affects the  activity of the  immune system (the body’s natural defences). Lenalidomide works in  several 
ways: it blocks the development of abnormal cells, prevents the growth of blood vessels within 
tumours and stimulates specialised cells of the  immune system to attack the abnormal cells. 
How has Lenalidomide Krka been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with  the reference medicine, Revlimid, and do not  need to be repeated for Lenalidomide 
Krka. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies  on the  quality of Lenalidomide Krka. The 
company also carried out studies that  showed that  it  is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the  same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the  same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lenalidomide Krka? 
Because Lenalidomide Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Lenalidomide Krka authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with  EU requirements, Lenalidomide 
Krka has been shown to have comparable quality and to  be bioequivalent to Revlimid. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that,  as for Revlimid, the benefits of Lenalidomide Krka outweigh the  identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lenalidomide Krka? 
The company that  markets Lenalidomide Krka will  provide educational kits for healthcare professionals, 
and brochures for patients,  explaining that  the medicine can be harmful to the unborn child and 
detailing the steps that  need to  be taken for the medicine to be used safely. It will also supply cards to 
patients about the  safety measures patients should take. 
Lenalidomide Krka (lenalidomide)  
EMA/422762/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The company has also set up a pregnancy prevention programme and will collect information on the 
medicine’s use outside its authorised uses. The boxes containing  Lenalidomide Krka capsules also 
include a warning stating that  lenalidomide can be harmful to the unborn child. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Lenalidomide Krka have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lenalidomide Krka are continuously  monitored. Side effects 
reported with  Lenalidomide Krka are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Lenalidomide Krka 
Lenalidomide Krka received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 11 February 2021. 
Further information on Lenalidomide Krka can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lenalidomide-krka-dd-novo-mesto. Information on the 
reference medicine can also be found on the  Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in  02-2021. 
Lenalidomide Krka (lenalidomide)  
EMA/422762/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
  
