EMA/422705/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005734 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto (lenalidomide) 
An overview of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto and why it is authorised 
in the EU 
What is Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto and what is it used for? 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is a medicine used for the  treatment of certain cancers affecting 
blood cells, namely multiple myeloma and follicular lymphoma. 
In multiple myeloma, a cancer of a type of white  blood cells called plasma cells, Lenalidomide Krka 
d.d. Novo mesto is used: 
• 
in adults with  previously untreated (newly diagnosed) multiple  myeloma, who have had a n 
autologous stem cell transplant  (a procedure where the patient’s bone marrow is cleared of cells 
and replaced with  the patient’s own stem cells to form new bone marrow); 
• 
in adults with  previously untreated multiple myeloma, who cannot  have stem cell transplantation. 
It is used in combination with  dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, or melphalan 
and prednisone; 
• 
in adults whose disease has been treated at least once. It  is us ed in combination with 
dexamethasone. 
In follicular lymphoma, a blood cancer that  affects a type of white  blood cell called B lymphocytes,  
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is used in adults whose disease has come back after treatment  or 
does not  improve with treatment.  It is used in combination with  rituximab. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto contains the active substance lenalidomide and is a ‘generic 
medicine’. This means that  Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto contains the same active substance 
and works in the  same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Revlimid. For 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto used? 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should be 
supervised by doctors who have experience  in the use of cancer medicines.  
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is available as capsules of various strengths  to be taken by mouth. 
Treatment is given in cycles, with  the medicine being used once a day on certain days of the cycles. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Treatment cycles are continued until  the disease is no longer being controlled or side effects become 
unacceptable. The dose depends on the disease it is being used for, the  patient’s overall health and 
blood test results. The dose may need to be reduced or treatment  interr upted in case of certain side 
effects.   
For more information about using Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto work? 
The active substance in Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto, lenalidomide, is an immunomodulator. 
This means that  it affects the activity of the immune system (the  body’s natural defences). 
Lenalidomide works in several ways: it  blocks the development of abnormal cells, prevents the growth 
of blood vessels within  tumours and stimulates specialised cells of the immune system to attack the 
abnormal cells. 
How has Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with  the reference medicine, Revlimid, and do not  need to be repeated for Lenalidomide 
Krka d.d. Novo mesto.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies  on the  quality of Lenalidomide  Krka d.d. Novo 
mesto. The company also carried out studies that  showed that  it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference 
medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active s ubstance 
in the body and are therefore expected to have the  same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto? 
Because Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to  the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s.  
Why is Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with  EU requirements, Lenalidomide 
Krka d.d. Novo mesto has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to  Revlimid. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that,  as for Revlimid, the  benefits of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo 
mesto outweigh the identified  risks and it can be authorised for use in the  EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto? 
The company that  markets Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto will provide educational kits for 
healthcare professionals, and brochures for patients, explaining that the medicine can be harmful to 
the unborn child and detailing the  steps that  need to be taken for the medicine to  be used safely. It 
will also supply cards to patients about  the safety measures patients should take. 
The company has also set up a pregnancy prevention programme and will collect information on the 
medicine’s use outside its authorised uses. The boxes containing  Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto 
capsules also include a warning stating  that  lenalidomide can be harmful to the  unborn child.  
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto (lenalidomide)  
EMA/422705/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto have also been included in  the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lenalidomide  Krka d.d. Novo mesto are continuously 
monitored. Side effects reported with  Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto are carefully evaluated and 
any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 11 
February 2021. 
Further information on Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lenalidomide -krka. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in  02-2021. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto (lenalidomide)  
EMA/422705/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
