EMA/694337/2021  
EMEA/H/C/003727 
Lenvima (lenvatinib) 
An overview of Lenvima and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Lenvima and what is it used for? 
Lenvima is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with: 
• 
differentiated thyroid carcinoma, a type of cancer originating from the follicular cells of the thyroid 
gland. Lenvima is used on its own when the cancer has progressed or spread locally or to other 
parts of the body, and does not respond to treatment with radioactive iodine; 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (a type of liver cancer). It is used on its own in patients who did not 
previously receive a cancer medicine by mouth or by injection and whose cancer is advanced or 
cannot be removed by surgery;  
• 
endometrial carcinoma (cancer of the lining of the womb). It is used together with another cancer 
medicine, pembrolizumab, in patients whose disease is advanced or has come back after previous 
treatment involving platinum-based cancer medicines, when surgery or radiation to cure the cancer 
is not possible. 
Lenvima contains the active substance lenvatinib.  
How is Lenvima used? 
Lenvima can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor who is experienced in using cancer medicines. 
The medicine is available as capsules to be taken by mouth once daily. The recommended dose 
depends on the condition being treated. Treatment is continued as long as the patient continues to 
benefit from it without too many side effects.  
To manage side effects, the doctor may decide to reduce the dose or stop treatment temporarily. In 
certain cases treatment should be permanently stopped.  
For more information about using Lenvima, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Lenvima work? 
The active substance in Lenvima, lenvatinib, is a tyrosine-kinase inhibitor. This means that it blocks 
the activity of enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found in certain receptors 
(such as VEGF, FGFR and RET receptors) in cancer cells, where they activate several processes 
including cell division and the growth of new blood vessels. By blocking these enzymes, lenvatinib can 
block the formation of new blood vessels and hence cut off the blood supply that keeps cancer cells 
growing, and reduce their growth. Lenvatinib may also alter the activity of the immune system (the 
body’s natural defences). 
What benefits of Lenvima have been shown in studies? 
Differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
Lenvima has been shown to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at slowing down 
disease progression in one main study. The study involved 392 adult patients with differentiated 
thyroid carcinoma that had shown signs of getting worse in the previous year and did not respond to 
treatment with radioactive iodine. The main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients lived 
without their disease getting worse: in the patients taking Lenvima this was an average of 18.3 
months, compared with 3.6 months in those taking placebo. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Lenvima has been shown to be at least as effective as the cancer medicine sorafenib at prolonging the 
time patients lived in one main study. The study involved 954 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma 
who had not previously been treated for their cancer and whose cancer could not be removed by 
surgery. Patients given Lenvima lived on average 13.6 months compared with 12.3 months in patients 
on sorafenib.  
Endometrial carcinoma 
Lenvima combined with pembrolizumab has been shown to be more effective than standard treatment 
in a main study involving 827 patients whose cancer had got worse after platinum-based treatments. 
Patients lived on average 18.3 months with Lenvima plus pembrolizumab and 11.4 months with 
standard treatment; the time patients lived without their disease getting worse again was an average 
7.2 months and 3.8 months respectively. 
What are the risks associated with Lenvima? 
The most common side effects with Lenvima (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are 
hypertension (high blood pressure), diarrhoea, decreased appetite and weight, tiredness, nausea 
(feeling sick), proteinuria (protein in the urine), stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), 
vomiting, dysphonia (hoarse voice), headache and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPE 
- rash and numbness on the palms and soles). When used in combination with pembrolizumab the 
most common side effects, which may affect more than 2 in 10 people, also include hypothyroidism 
(reduced thyroid function), arthralgia (joint pain), constipation, urinary tract infection, abdominal 
(belly) pain, weakness, anaemia (low red blood cell levels) and hypomagnesaemia (low levels of 
magnesium in the blood). 
The most common serious side effects include kidney failure and impairment; problems with the heart 
and circulation such as heart failure, blood clots in the arteries leading to stroke or heart attack, 
bleeding in the brain or from swollen blood vessels in the passage from mouth to stomach, a syndrome 
Lenvima (lenvatinib)  
EMA/694337/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
known as ‘posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome’ characterised by headache, confusion, fits 
and loss of vision, liver failure, hepatic encephalopathy (brain damage due to liver failure), stroke and 
heart attack. For the full list of side effects with Lenvima, see the package leaflet. 
Lenvima must not be taken by breastfeeding women. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Lenvima authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Lenvima’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. In patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma, the medicine showed a 
clinically relevant improvement in the time patients lived without their disease getting worse. In 
patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who have a poor prognosis and few treatment 
options, Lenvima was as effective as sorafenib in prolonging their life. Similarly, in patients with 
endometrial cancer that does not respond to or comes back after platinum-based treatment, prognosis 
is poor, and Lenvima plus pembrolizumab offers a valuable treatment option. Regarding safety, the 
Agency considered that the majority of side effects with Lenvima can be adequately managed by 
reducing the dose or temporarily interrupting treatment; there are no unexpected safety concerns 
when used together with pembrolizumab.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lenvima? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lenvima have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lenvima are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Lenvima are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Lenvima 
Lenvima received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 May 2015.  
Further information on Lenvima can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/lenvima.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2021.  
Lenvima (lenvatinib)  
EMA/694337/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
