20 July 2018 
EMA/625772/2017   
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance  
Lenvima (Lenvatinib) 
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma 
EU/3/15/1460 (EMA/OD/287/14) 
Sponsor: Eisai Europe Limited 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Lenvatinib 
Lenvatinib 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma 
Capsule, hard  
Oral use   
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
L01XE05 
Sponsor’s details: 
Eisai Europe Limited 
European Knowledge Centre 
Mosquito Way 
Hatfield 
Herts AL10 9SN 
United Kingdom 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Eisai Europe Limited  
12 February 2015  
19 March 2015 
EU/3/15/1460 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Bart Van der Schueren, Robert James Hemmings 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
CHMP opinion date 
Eisai Europe Limited  
24 July 2017 
12 August 2017 
EMA/H/C/003727 
Lenvatinib  
Extension of indication to include treatment of 
hepatocellular carcinoma 
Further information on Lenvima can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/ European public assessment reports 
28 June 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
D. O’Connor – K. Westermark 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
23/08/2017 and 29/09/2017 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
30-31 October 2017  
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
17 July 2018 
18 July 2018 
Following communication of the outcome of the discussion, the sponsor formally requested the 
withdrawal of the orphan designation on 18 July 2018, prior to final opinion. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion 
The COMP opinion on the orphan medicinal product designation was based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing lenvatinib was 
considered justified based on pre-clinical in vivo models of the condition and preliminary 
clinical data in patients with the condition;   
the condition is life-threatening because it is often discovered in advanced phase, and survival 
following diagnosis is approximately 6 to 20 months. The main chronically debilitating 
manifestations include abdominal pain, weight loss, ascites, encephalopathy, jaundice and 
variceal bleeding; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 0.6 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time the application was made.  
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver malignancy and is a leading cause 
of cancer-related death worldwide. Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis remain the most important risk 
factors for the development of HCC of which viral hepatitis and excessive alcohol intake are the leading 
risk factors worldwide. Chronic viral hepatitis can lead to cirrhosis and/or HCC. Diabetes is an 
independent risk factor for HCC. HCC is an adenocarcinoma and the composing tumor cells resemble 
normal hepatocytes. Stromal invasion, or tumor cell invasion into the portal tracts or fibrous septa, 
defines HCC and is not present in dysplastic lesions [III, A]. Other histological features of HCC, 
however, may also be seen in dysplastic lesions: (i) increased cell density more than two times that of 
the surrounding tissue, with an increased nuclear/cytoplasm ratio and irregular thin-trabecular pattern; 
(ii) intratumoral portal tracts); (iii) pseudoglandular pattern; (iv) diffuse fatty change (up to 40% in 
early well-differentiated tumors, uncommon in tumors >3 cm; and (v) varying numbers of unpaired 
arteries. 
To obtain the best treatment result for HCC, early diagnosis is the key. Chronic hepatitis leads to the 
development of cirrhosis. Cirrhotic livers exhibit regenerative nodules, which result from increased 
proliferation of hepatocytes. Differentiation between these regenerative nodules and HCC can vary 
based on the size of the nodules. Percutaneous biopsy should be limited to those nodules that are 
radiologically nontypical on CT or MRI for HCC. 
HCC is an aggressive cancer that occurs in the setting of chronic liver disease and cirrhosis that 
frequently presents in advanced stages. Concomitant liver dysfunction with advanced tumor stages 
further impedes curative therapies. 
HCC as well as other cancers, can be prevented if appropriate measures, including HBV vaccination, 
universal screening of blood products, use of safe injection practices, treatment and education of 
alcoholics and intravenous drug users, and initiation of antiviral therapy, have shown to be effective. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 4/9 
 
 
The proposed therapeutic indication “Treatment of adult patients with hepatocellular carcinoma” falls 
within the scope of the designated orphan indication “treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified. Please see 
EPAR – scientific document.  
Chronically debilitating and life-threatening nature 
The prognosis of patients with HCC and the choice among the available therapeutic options, largely 
depends on tumor extension and underlying liver function. The condition now ranks sixth in the world 
among all malignancies, contributing to the third leading cause of mortality attributed to cancer (World 
J Hepatol. 2015 Nov 18; 7(26): 2648–2663.). Patients detected at an early stage can achieve 5-year 
survival rates of 70% with transplant or resection, whereas those with advanced HCC are only eligible 
for palliative treatments and have a median survival of less than one year (World J Hepatol 2015 
November 18; 7(26): 2648-2663). HCC remains a complex and heterogeneous disease with wide 
prognosis (Future Oncol. (2017) 13(15), 1297–1300). Mortality outcomes depends on the degree of 
hepatocellular cancer diagnosed. For example post-embolization syndrome can affect up to 50% of 
patients that may induce acute liver failure, with an associated risk of post-procedure mortality. (World 
J Hepatol 2015 November 18; 7(26): 2648-2663). Patients who are eligible for liver transplant can 
have four-year rate of survival was 75% (N Engl J Med 1996; 334:693-699). It is reported that the 
three- and five-year survivals are 64.7% and 56.2% respectively, and what had been seen was 71.3% 
and 57.8%, respectively using the Metroticket methodology. However, the predicted five year rate of 
survival was 43.5% (World J Gastroenterol 2013; 19: 8093-8098). With the establishment of the MELD 
system, five-year survival without HCC therapy, with local tumor ablation, surgical resection and liver 
transplantation was 15.2%, 37.6%, 55.5% and 77.2% respectively. Current management of HCC 
includes surgical resection/hepatectomy, liver transplantation (deceased and living), thermal or 
chemical ablation, chemoembolization, and medical treatment. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The incidence of HCC is reported by the sponsor to be increasing in Europe and worldwide. In the EU-
28, the sponsor highlights that the incidence of primary liver and intrahepatic bile duct cancers (all 
cancer types) is estimated at 7.6/100,000 for men and 2.4/100,000 for women (Global Cancer 
Observatory, IARC, https://gco.iarc.fr, 2016). The sponsor offers a variety of sources from the 
literature regarding the reported incidence of the condition. The publications range from 2008 to 2017. 
There is variability in the reporting of the incidence of the condition across Europe. The sponsor has 
used sources from National registries and Rarecare. The sponsor highlights that whilst German, UK, 
and Dutch data do report annual figures, the changes in incidence have slowed in recent years and 
averages are hard to estimate across all nation states. They propose to correct this incidence 
calculation with data from SEER. However, this correction could skew the prevalence calculation as the 
epidemiology for hepatocellular carcinoma could be different in the US to that in Europe. The incidence 
in SEER is proposed as 1.05 in 10,000 and is associated with an increase of 3% in HCC year on year. It 
is not clear how this could compare with what appears to be slower increases in Europe.  
The sponsor indicates that the GLOBOCAN data for 2012 reported a 5-year prevalence of primary liver 
cancers in men and women as 46,988 cases. Primary liver cancers include hepatocellular carcinoma 
and biliary tract cancers. The sponsor has not indicated the ratio between the two so it is difficult to 
establish the relevance of the proposed numbers in the prevalence for hepatocellular carcinoma. The 
sponsor does not indicate which of the primary liver cancers are being included in the prevalence 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 5/9 
 
 
calculation. In addition they are mixing in the 3% increase reported in SEER which may not reflect the 
situation in Europe.  
The sponsor provides a final calculation based on 5 year survival. As the average survival appears to 
be below 5 years as reported in the recent literature (the predicted five year rate of survival was 
43.5% World J Gastroenterol 2013; 19: 8093-8098), it would appear that a partial prevalence 
calculation, using a 5 years duration, is acceptable. The sponsor concludes on 1.05 in 10,000 in Europe 
which based on assumptions associated with what is reported in SEER for 2016. As reporting of the 
incidence and prevalence maybe different in the United States due to factors which maybe different to 
those in Europe the final number potentially may not reflect current epidemiological considerations in 
Europe. 
It has been recently reported that HCC is more common among males with a male:female ratio of 2.4 
in its worldwide distribution and that the most common age at presentation is usually between 30 and 
50. Europe is generally considered to have a low incidence with certain regions having a mid-range 
incidence when compared with Asia and the US (J Carcinog. 2017; 16: 1.). Therefore the assumption 
made by the sponsor regarding the findings in SEER and their inclusion in the calculation does not 
seem to be needed considering what is reported in In the US, SEER reports that HCC accounts for 65% 
of all cases of liver cancers. It would be of interest to understand if the same percentage for HCC is 
applicable to Europe and this is not addressed by the sponsor. The remainder of the primary liver 
cancers involve biliary tract cancers for which the COMP has recently accepted a prevalence calculation 
of 1.46 in 10,000. This should be considered in the prevalence calculation as the sponsor has provided 
a prevalence calculation which includes all primary liver cancers. It is also noted in a recent publication 
from 2017 in J Hepatol. 2017 Aug;67(2):302-309 that: In European men, mortality rates were stable 
during the last decade (3.5/100,000). HCC mortality increased in Northern and Central Europe, and 
decreased in Southern Europe. In the USA, HCC mortality increased by 35% between 2002 and 2012, 
reaching 3.1/100,000 men in 2012; it is predicted to remain stable to 2020.  
The sponsor was invited to recalculate the prevalence using assumptions which reflect the current 
situation in Europe. Although the revised prevalence calculation was accepted by the COMP the 
sponsor withdrew the application following the oral explanation due to other considerations. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Currently sorafenib is considered standard of care for patients with advanced HCC in the first line 
setting. The indication for sorafenib is: “Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma”. It is recommended for 
use in advanced metastatic stage (C) forms of hepatocellular carcinoma. Treatment is based on the 
Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging system came about from data obtained in multiple 
studies done by the Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer Group. The BCLC became a standardized measure of 
identifying prognosis for patients with HCC. The treatment algorithm has been adopted in the ESMO 
and the EASL-EORTC clinical practice guidelines: Management of Hepatocellular Carcinoma and the 
same is used in the US. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 6/9 
 
 
Current management of HCC includes surgical resection/hepatectomy, liver transplantation (deceased 
and living), thermal or chemical ablation, chemoembolization, and medical treatment. (Forner, Reig 
and Bruix, The Lancet January 2018 ). For intermediate stage (B) forms the preferred treatment is the 
application of intra-arterial administration of chemotherapy (e.g. doxorubicin, cisplatin), embolizing 
material (e.g. coils, gelatin sponge particles) or radioactive particles. Transarterial chemoembolization 
(TACE) involves the combination of selective injection through the hepatic artery of antineoplastic 
agents and selective obstruction of tumoral feeding vessels. TACE may induce partial responses in 
15%– 55% of patients, which are associated with a benefit in overall and progression-free survival. 
Doxorubicin and cisplatin are used in the treatment of this condition off-label. Regorafenib is approved 
centrally for patients who have been previously treated with sorafenib. Lenvatinib has been shown to 
be noninferior to sorafenib, but no second-line option after lenvatinib has been explored. Mitoxantrone 
is approved nationally in some member states for non-resectable primary hepatocellular carcinoma.   
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is proposing that: As the first new therapy for first-line HCC submitted for approval in a 
decade, lenvatinib would provide a significant benefit as both a major contribution to the care of 
patients with HCC and clinically relevant advantage over sorafenib, the standard of care in subjects 
with advanced or unresectable HCC.  
The sponsor obtained for Scientific Advice on 15 November 2012 before they obtained their orphan 
designation which was on the 19 Mar 2015. The sponsor has not therefore raised a question on 
significant benefit.  
The sponsor’s product is an oral formulation comprised of 4 mg tablets. 
For the purpose of significant benefit assessment only sorafenib will be considered as it is the one 
product used for the targeted patient population. Sorafenib is an oral formulation of 200mg. The 
indication for sorafenib is: Treatment of adult patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. According to 
current ESMO Guidelines for the treatment of HCC, sorafenib is to be used in the management of 
locally advanced/metastatic disease with palliative treatments such as transarterial chemoembolization 
(TACE).  
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor has conducted two studies which are summarised below: 
Although sorafenib doesn’t seem to be used extensively within the context of intermediate forms of 
hepatocellular carcinoma it is currently accepted that it is indicated for this form of this malignancy as 
well as the more advanced metastatic forms and all other forms covering the milder and more severe 
forms. The sponsor of lenvatinib has indicated they have studied in their pivotal phase III study (A 
multicentre, randomised, open-label, Phase III trail to compare the efficacy an safety of lenvatinib 
versus sorafenib in First-line treatment of subjects with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma)  
patients who had unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. This study was a direct comparison to 
sorafenib and the primary outcome measure was overall survival for which non-inferiority was shown.  
The sponsor claims that their product offers a clinically relevant advantage to sorafenib due to better 
outcomes as measured through their secondary end-points: “lenvatinib demonstrated highly 
statistically significant, clinically meaningful improvement for all secondary efficacy endpoints (PFS, 
TTP, and ORR) compared with sorafenib, which reflects the direct antitumor effect of lenvatinib without 
the confounding effects of postprogression therapies.  Results were consistent across all subgroups.  
Furthermore, lenvatinib showed significantly more tumour shrinkage compared with sorafenib”. 
The COMP in their discussions noted the following points. Lenvatinib was non-inferior compared to 
sorafenib in the first line setting against sorafenib for OS. In the secondary endpoints, lenvatinib 
appears superior for PFS, TTP and ORR compared with sorafenib. 
•  OS: 13.6 months for lenvatinib vs. 12.3 months for sorafenib. HR = 0.92 [95% CI of (0.79, 
1.06)].  
• 
• 
PFS: 7.4 vs 3.7 months; HR = 0.66; 95% CI (0.57, 0.77); P<0.00001 
TTP:  8.9 vs 3.7 months; HR = 0.63; 95% CI (0.53, 0.73); P<0.00001 
•  ORR (CR + PR):  24.1% versus 9.2% (P<0.00001) 
With regards to QoL measurements, the sponsor states that “The health-related QoL results suggest 
that any comparative survival benefit observed among subjects in either treatment group would not be 
at the cost of QoL relative to the alternative treatment”. However, globally there was no evidence of an 
improvement in QoL shown for patients on Lenvima versus sorafenib.  
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
In conclusion, lenvatinib has been shown to be non-inferior for the primary endpoint of survival, but 
superior in terms of secondary endpoints.  The argument for significant benefit based on improved 
efficacy remains unsubstantiated as overall survival is considered to be the most clinically relevant 
endpoint for these patients. The safety data presented do not appear to favour the lenvatinib arm e.g.  
SAEs including fatal events were 43.1% for lenvatinib and 30.3% for sorafenib and the data on the 
QoL do not conclusively favour lenvatinib. Currently the justification for significant benefit cannot be 
accepted and the sponsor should be asked to demonstrate robust improvement in QoL or other 
meaningful patient outcome measures.  
The sponsor decided to withdraw the request for Maintenance of the Orphan Designation following the 
oral explanation.  
4.  COMP list of issues 
Prevalence: 
The assumptions the sponsor has made in the proposed methodology to establish the prevalence of 
hepatocellular carcinoma appear to be insufficient in that SEER data are used which would not reflect 
the current situation in Europe which could be different. The sponsor should recalculate the prevalence 
focusing primarily on recent European sources to establish the prevalence of the condition. 
Significant Benefit 
The sponsor is claiming a clinically relevant advantage of their product within the context of how 
sorafenib is used in advanced metastatic forms of the condition. The main study 304 only 
demonstrated non-inferiority in the primary endpoint to sorafenib and the data submitted by the 
sponsor does not clearly establish either a clinically relevant advantage or major contribution to patient 
care. The sponsor is invited to further elaborate on the data to support a claim of significant benefit. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report - Orphan Maintenance 
EMA/625772/2017 
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
