Summary of the risk management plan for Leqvio 
(inclisiran)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Leqvio. The RMP 
details  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Leqvio’s  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Leqvio’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Leqvio should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Leqvio should be read in the context of all of 
this information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language  summary,  all  of  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Leqvio's RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Leqvio is authorised for adults as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated 
statin  therapy,  for  the  treatment  of  primary  hypercholesterolaemia 
(including  heterozygous  familial  hypercholesterolemia)  to  reduce  low-
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains  inclisiran  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  administered  as  a 
subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Leqvio’s benefits can be found 
in Leqvio’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
webpage: 
EMA 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/leqvio
medicine’s 
website, 
under 
the
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks
Important  risks  of  Leqvio  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks 
and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Leqvio’s  risks,  are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on
correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen 
so to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its 
risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment 
so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Leqvio is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a  link  with  the  use  of  Leqvio.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. 
on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
None
None
Missing information
Long-term safety 
Use in pregnancy and breast-feeding
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment
II B: Summary of important risks
Table 2
Missing information: Long-term safety
Risk minimization
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section: None
PL Section: None
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Study  CKJX839A12201E1 (ORION-3),
Study CKJX839A12306B (ORION-8)
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorization development plan.
Table 3
Missing information: Use in pregnancy and breast-feeding
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section: 4.6
PL Section: 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Inclisiran PRegnancy outcomes Intensive Monitoring (PRIM)
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorization development plan.
Table 4
Missing information: Use in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section: 4.2, 5.2
PL Section: 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of Leqvio.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Table 5
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study short 
name
CKJX839A12201E1 
(ORION-3)
CKJX839A12306B 
(ORION-8)
Rationale and study objectives
Rationale:
ORION-3 study is an open-label, long-term extension study in 
subjects who completed the Phase II ORION-1 study. Patients in 
the inclisiran arm will continue on inclisiran (Group1) and patients 
on placebo will be switched to evolocumab for 1 year and then 
switched to inclisiran (Group 2).
Objective:
To further characterize the long term safety and tolerability of 
inclisiran (AEs, SAEs, Physical examination, CV events (including 
CV deaths) and laboratory evaluations. To evaluate the long term 
safety and tolerability of inclisiran (Group 1; inclisiran only arm).
Rationale: This extension study allows subjects continued access 
to inclisiran treatment and to allow the collection of additional 
efficacy and safety beyond the end of the original studies.
Objective:
To evaluate the safety and tolerability profile of long term use of 
inclisiran.
Study short 
name
Inclisiran 
PRegnancy 
outcomes 
Intensive 
Monitoring (PRIM)
Rationale and study objectives
PRIM as an additional pharmacovigilance activity is intended to 
monitor actual use in pregnancy and to proactively collect 
pregnancy outcomes for reported cases.
The overall objective of the inclisiran PRIM program is to collect 
data on pregnancy outcomes in patients treated with inclisiran 
during pregnancy or prior to pregnancy (including congenital 
malformations, spontaneous abortions, stillbirths and other 
adverse birth outcomes) as well as infant outcomes at 3 and 12 
months post-delivery, including breast-feeding status and 
exposures, neonatal and infant deaths and developmental delays. 
The findings from this program will be used to evaluate the 
missing information ‘Use in pregnancy and breast-feeding’, 
according to the RMP.
