EMA/561767/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005333 
Leqvio (inclisiran) 
An overview of Leqvio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Leqvio and what is it used for? 
Leqvio is a medicine used to reduce cholesterol in the blood. It is used in adults with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia (conditions that cause high levels of fats, including 
cholesterol, in the blood). It should be used with a low-fat diet. 
Leqvio is used in combination with a statin (a type of cholesterol-lowering medicine) when the 
maximum dose of the statin does not lower cholesterol levels enough. It can also be used in 
combination with other cholesterol-lowering medicines in patients who cannot take a statin. 
Leqvio contains the active substance inclisiran. 
How is Leqvio used? 
Leqvio is given by injection under the skin, usually in the belly but also in the upper arm or thigh. After 
the first injection, the next dose is given after 3 months and then it is given every 6 months. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Leqvio, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Leqvio work? 
Inclisiran, the active substance in Leqvio, interferes with RNA (genetic material) to limit the production 
of PCSK9, a protein that can increase levels of LDL-cholesterol (‘bad’ cholesterol). By preventing 
PCSK9 production, Leqvio helps to lower LDL-cholesterol levels. 
What benefits of Leqvio have been shown in studies? 
Three main studies involving a total of 3,660 patients found Leqvio effective at lowering levels of LDL-
cholesterol. Over 94% of patients in the studies were also taking statins or other medicines to lower 
the levels of lipids (fats) in blood.  
The studies included patients with a form of hypercholesterolaemia that runs in families and patients 
with raised LDL-cholesterol who either had atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (where fatty deposits 
have built up in blood vessels) or were prone to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. After 510 days 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
(around 15 months), the results were similar for all studies, and overall, LDL-cholesterol had dropped 
by over 50% in patients treated with Leqvio compared with those receiving placebo (a dummy 
treatment). 
What are the risks associated with Leqvio? 
The most common side effects with Leqvio (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are reactions such 
as pain, redness and rash at the injection site. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Leqvio, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Leqvio authorised in the EU? 
Studies have found worthwhile reductions in LDL-cholesterol levels in patients treated with Leqvio, 
which go beyond reductions attained with statins or other lipid-lowering medicines. There is no direct 
evidence yet that Leqvio reduces heart attacks or stroke but reduction in LDL-cholesterol is linked to 
reduction in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The side effects of Leqvio are manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Leqvio’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Leqvio? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Leqvio have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Leqvio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Leqvio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Leqvio 
Leqvio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 2020. 
Further information on Leqvio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/leqvio.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2020. 
Leqvio (inclisiran)  
EMA/561767/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
