19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
International non proprietary name: levetiracetam 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002244 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 7 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 8 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 11 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 12 
2.3. Non- Clinical aspects ........................................................................................ 12 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 12 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 12 
2.4. Clinical Aspects ................................................................................................ 12 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 12 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 13 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 17 
2.4.4. Additional data.............................................................................................. 17 
2.4.5. Post marketing experience.............................................................................. 17 
2.4.6. Discussion on Clinical aspects.......................................................................... 17 
2.4.7. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 18 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 18 
2.6. User consultation ............................................................................................. 19 
2.7. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 19 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 2/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant ratiopharm GmbH submitted on 30 September 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Levetiracetam ratiopharm, through the 
centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’ of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMA/CHMP on 17 December 2009. 
The legal base for this application refers to Article 10 (1) of Directice 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Community on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8 (3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: Levetiracetam ratiopharm is indicated as 
monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm is indicated as adjunctive therapy: 
 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and at 
least a bioequivalent study with the reference medicinal product Keppra instead of non-clinical and 
clinical unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is Keppra.  
Film-coated Tablets: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg 
film-coated tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/001-026 and EU/1/00/146/028-029 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 3/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg 
film-coated tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Bioavailability study number(s): 299-08 
Oral solution: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 100 mg/ml oral solution 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/027 and EU/1/00/146/031-032 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 100 mg/ml oral solution 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Pieter Neels 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 30 September 2010.  
The procedure started on 20 October 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 January 2011 
(Annex 4.1).  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 4/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  During the meeting on 14-17 February 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 18 February 2011. (Annex 4.2). 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 18 March 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 04 May 2011 (Annex 4.3).  
During the meeting on 16-19 May 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Levetiracetam ratiopharm. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 5/20 
 
  
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg film-coated tablets and 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 100 mg/ml oral solution are generic medicinal products containing 
levetiracetam as the active substance. 
The reference medicinal product is Keppra film-coated tablets authorised on 29 September 2000. 
Levetiracetam is a chemical entity related to piracetam, a nootropic drug. Initial research was directed 
primarily towards indications where piracetam and piracetam-like compounds had shown to be of 
potential benefit (cognition, anxiety disorders). When the particular antiepileptic profile of the drug was 
recognised, its development was oriented towards epilepsy as a new indication in 1991. 
The precise mechanism of action by which levetiracetam confers seizure protection is unknown, but it 
appears to be unrelated to the mechanisms identified for current antiepileptic drugs. 
Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of Epilepsy. 
The efficacy and safety of levetiracetam has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies. A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference product Keppra. 
Bioequivalence to the reference product was demonstrated by a bioequivalence study at single dose 
under fasting conditions. The study was performed in healthy volunteers with the 1000 mg tablets. 
The indication proposed for Levetiracetam ratiopharm is identical to the indication of the reference 
medicinal product.  
The therapeutic indication of Levetiracetam ratiopharm is: 
 
as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
 
as adjunctive therapy:  
- 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
- 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
- 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm is presented as film-coated tablets and oral solution. The film-coated tablets 
contain 250mg, 500mg, 750mg and 1000mg of levetiracetam as active substance. The other 
ingredients are macrogol, cellulose powdered, crospovidone, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium 
stearate, hypromellose, microcrystalline cellulose, talc and colorants. The medicinal product is 
packaged in PVC/ Aluminium blisters. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 6/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The oral solution contains 100 mg/ml of levetiracetam as active substance. The other ingredients are 
methyl para-hydroxybenzoate, propyl para-hydroxybenzoate, acesulfame potassium, grape flavour, 
citric acid monohydrate, sodium hydroxide and water purified. The solution is packaged in a brown 
glass bottle (type III) with a white child resistant closure (polypropylene) in a cardboard box also 
containing an oral syringe (polypropylene, polyethylene) and an adaptor for the syringe (polyethylene). 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Levetiracetam is a white to off-white crystalline powder, very soluble in water. It is also freely soluble 
in chloroform and methanol, soluble in ethanol and sparingly soluble in acetonitrile, and insoluble in n-
hexane. It is slightly hygroscopic presenting one single chiral centre leading to 2 optical isomers, 
where the active is the S-enantiomer. According to the synthetic process described in this application, 
the active substance is consistently obtained as the S-enantiomer and is routinely controlled with an 
enantiomeric purity test. Levetiracetam does not present polymorphism. 
Figure 1: levetiracetam 
Manufacture 
The Active Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure was followed for the active substance. The 
manufacturing process of levetiracetam is a four step synthesis followed by purification 
(crystallisation). A full description of the synthetic route was provided in the restricted part of the 
ASMF. Adequate controls of critical steps and intermediates are sufficient to ensure the quality of the 
active substance, and adequate specifications for starting materials, reagents, and solvents have been 
provided. The purified active substance is packed in two bags of low density polyethylene (one 
introduced into the other), closed by twisting and fastened with a plastic string. The bags are further 
packaged in a plastic drum (HDPE) with a plastic cover tightly closed with a metallic devise. 
Statements from the Qualified Persons of the finished product manufacturers confirming that the 
manufacturing of the active substance is performed in compliance with current EU GMP or ICH Q7A 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 7/20 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
were provided. The chemical structure of levetiracetam has been confirmed by spectroscopy (IR, 1H-
NMR, 13C-NMR, and MS). In addition the molecular weight was determined by elemental analysis. 
Specification 
Levetiracetam is described in the last edition of the European Pharmacopoeia. The Ph. Eur. 
specifications have been implemented by both active substance and finished product manufacturers, 
where applicable, to control the quality of the active substance. The specification also complies with 
ICH Q3A and includes tests for appearance (visual), identification (HPLC, IR), melting point, loss on 
drying, chiral purity (chiral HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residue on ignition, heavy metals, particle size, 
assay (chiral HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water (Ph.Eur.) and appearance of solution. A detailed 
description for all analytical methods was provided. Full method validation data was provided for the 
in-house analytical methods and are in accordance with the relevant ICH Guidelines. In general 
analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the active substance. The impurity 
limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety. Batch analysis data have 
been provided and show consistent compliance with the predefined active substance specification. 
Stability 
The stability results from long-term (25°C/60%RH) for 6 production scale batches and accelerated 
studies (40°C/75%RH) for three production scale batches were completed according to ICH guidelines 
demonstrated adequate stability of the active substance. The following parameters were monitored 
during the stability studies: appearance (visual), melting point, loss on drying, chiral purity (chiral 
HPLC), impurities (HPLC) and assay (chiral HPLC). It was noticed that the test methods applied are 
those used for release of the active substance. In can be concluded that the proposed re-test is 
justified based on the stability results when the active substance is stored in the original packing 
material.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Film-coated Tablets  
Pharmaceutical Development 
All information regarding the choice of the active substance and the excipients are sufficiently justified. 
The main aim of the pharmaceutical development was to formulate a conventional film-coated tablet, 
with a relatively rapid drug release. containing respectively 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg 
levetiracetam per tablet and is bioequivalent to the innovator product, Keppra. In this context, the 
characteristics of the reference product have been studied in terms of its qualitative and quantitative 
composition along with its physico-chemical properties. The excipients for this particular formulation 
were selected carefully. It was noted that the excipients selected for this formulation are commonly 
used in pharmaceutical formulations. Following several studies, the direct compression was selected for 
manufacturing the film-coated tablets since it is cheaper and demonstrated minor degradation of the 
active substance while processing. During the pharmaceutical development critical formulation and 
manufacturing parameters were identified and adjusted. The comparative dissolution profiles were 
provided. The results demonstrated that the generic batches used for the bioequivalence studies and 
the EU brand leader batches are similar with respect to dissolution rate.  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 8/20 
 
  
 
 
 
Adventitious agents 
All excipients used comply with the provisions of Commission Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and 
with Chapter "5.2.8. Minimizing the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via 
human and veterinary medicinal products" of the Ph. Eur. The excipients used do not contain and are 
not derived from any category A or B as defined in the TSE guideline (EMEA/410/01 rev.2). 
Manufacture of the product 
The proposed commercial manufacturing process for the film-coated tablets involves standard 
technology and it is divided into the following steps: mixing, sieving, homogenization and addition of 
outer phase, compression, film coating, filling and packaging. The equipment used is commonly 
available in the pharmaceutical industry. The manufacturing process has been adequately described 
and some steps have been identified and control, but they are not considered as critical. It was noticed 
that the manufacturing process has been adequately validated for one pilot batch of each strength and 
from each manufacturing site. The validation protocol proposed for the full scale batches has been 
provided and the quality of the production batches will be evaluated through the results of in process 
testing as well as the results of finished product testing. 
Product Specification  
The product specification is standard for film-coated tablets and contains tests with suitable limits for 
appearance, uniformity of dosage (Ph.Eur), resistance to crushing (Ph.Eur), subdivision of tablets 
(Ph.Eur), identification of titanium dioxide (Ph.Eur), identification of iron oxide (Ph.Eur), identification 
(HPLC and UV), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC) and microbiological purity (Ph.Eur). Impurities and 
degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
All analytical procedures that were used for testing the finished product were properly described and 
satisfactorily validated in accordance with the relevant ICH guidelines. The batch analysis data for 2 
pilot batches of each strength from each manufacturing site confirm that the film-coated tablets can be 
manufactured reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies under ICH long-term and accelerated conditions (i.e. 25°C/60% RH and 40°C/75% 
RH) have been carried out on two pilot batches of each strength (250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 
mg).  
The results of the following tests were submitted: appearance, assay and impurities. The analytical 
methods used for the stability studies are identical with the methods proposed for routine testing of 
the finished product. During the stability studies the product did not show any significant change in its 
quality. All the results remained well within the specification limits during all the stability studies. 
Results for bulk stability studies of all strengths were also acceptable. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 9/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
A Photostability testing program was conducted on one batches (250 mg) in accordance with the 
recommendations of ICH guideline Q1B. The results were found to meet the specifications and the 
finished product does not require any special light protection. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable.  
Oral Solution  
Pharmaceutical Development 
All information regarding the choice of the active substance and the excipients are sufficiently justified. 
The main aim of the pharmaceutical development was to formulate an oral solution (levetiracetam 100 
mg/ml) essentially similar to the reference product Keppra, 100 mg/ml oral solution and with a good 
taste and compliance. Therefore, the characteristics of the reference product have been studied in 
terms of its qualitative and quantitative composition along with its physico-chemical properties. The 
excipients for this particular formulation were selected carefully and compatibility studies were 
conducted. It was noted that the excipients selected for this formulation are commonly used in 
pharmaceutical formulations and quite similar to the reference product, with exception of two 
excipients. The preservative system was selected following the results of the microbial test, which were 
performed in accordance with Eur. Ph. It was noted that the pH of the oral solution was selected to 
guarantee the stability of the active substance, finished product and the efficacy of the preservatives. 
Adventitious agents 
All excipients used comply with the provisions of Commission Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and 
with Chapter "5.2.8. Minimizing the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via 
human and veterinary medicinal products" of the Ph. Eur. The excipients used do not contain and are 
not derived from any category A or B as defined in the TSE guideline (EMEA/410/01 rev.2). 
Manufacture of the product 
The proposed commercial manufacturing process for the oral solution involves standard technology and 
it is divided into the following steps: mixing, heating, stirring, cooling, pH adjusting, filtration, bottle 
filling and capping. The equipment used is commonly available in the pharmaceutical industry. The 
manufacturing process has been adequately described and some steps have been identified and 
control, but they are not considered as critical. It was noticed that the manufacturing process has been 
adequately validated for two pilot batches a validation protocol proposed for three consecutive batches 
has been provided.  
Product Specification  
The product specification is standard for oral solutions and contains tests with suitable limits for 
appearance, odour, filling volume, pH, identification of methyl para-hydroxybenzoate, propyl para-
hydroxybenzoate and levetiracetam, assay of para-hydroxybenzoate, propyl para-hydroxybenzoate 
and levetiracetam, impurities (HPLC), identification of plastic materials (IR) and microbiological purity 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 10/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
(Ph.Eur). Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from 
the point of view of safety. All analytical procedures that were used for testing the finished product 
were properly described and satisfactorily validated in accordance with the relevant ICH guidelines. 
The batch analysis results show that the medicinal product can be manufactured reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies under ICH long-term and accelerated conditions (i.e. 25°C/60% RH and 40°C/75% 
RH) have been carried out on four pilot batches. 
The results of the following tests were submitted: appearance, odour, pH, assay of para-
hydroxybenzoate, propyl para-hydroxybenzoate and levetiracetam, impurities (HPLC) and 
microbiological purity (Ph.Eur). 
The analytical methods used for the stability studies are identical with the methods proposed for 
routine testing of the finished product. During the stability studies the product did not show any 
significant change in quality. All the results remained well within the specification limits during all the 
stability studies.  
In-use stability studies were performed on the two pilot scale batches of Levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral 
solution packaged in 300 ml glass bottles. The batches were stored under long-term ICH storage 
conditions at (25°C/60%RH). All results were in compliance with the specification requirements.  
A Photostability testing program was conducted on one batches in accordance with the 
recommendations of ICH guideline Q1B The results were found to meet the specifications and the 
finished product does not require any special light protection. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Levetiracetam is described in the last edition of the European Pharmacopoeia. Where applicable, 
specifications applied by both the active substance and the finished product manufacturers are in-line 
with the monograph.  
The pharmaceutical development of the formulation, the manufacturing process, control of the active 
substance and the finished product have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in 
accordance with relevant CHMP and ICH guidelines. The manufacturing flow-chart was provided with 
suitable in-process controls. The manufacturing process is adequately validated at pilot scale at the 
proposed manufacturing site. The validation protocol proposed for the full scale batches has been 
provided for both pharmaceutical forms. The quality of the production batches will be evaluated 
through the results of in process testing as well as the results of finished product testing. 
The routine specifications and tests methods proposed for the finished product will adequately control 
the quality of the finished product. Analytical methods were well described and validated in agreement 
with relevant guidelines.  
Batch analyses were presented and the results showed that the finished product meets the 
specifications proposed.  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 11/20 
 
  
 
 
 
The container-closure systems for both pharmaceutical forms were found to be suitable to ensure the 
quality of the finished product as shown by the stability data.  
The conditions used in the stability studies comply with the ICH stability guideline. The control tests 
and specifications for finished were adequately established. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished products 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the medicinal product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, all quality issues have been resolved. 
2.3.  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Levetiracetam ratiopharm manufactured by ratiopharm GmbH is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all levetiracetam containing 
products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to 
be similar and not increased. The CHMP agreed with this justification.  
2.4.  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an abridged application for film-coated tablets, and oral solution containing levetiracetam. To 
support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with 
cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of levetiracetam film-coated tablets and oral solution based on published 
literature; this was considered acceptable. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 12/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
The contract research organisation has been inspected by competent authorities over the period 
between 2004 and 2009 and was found compliant with ICH GCP requirements. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study (BE study n°299-08). 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
The study was an open-label, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single 
oral dose, crossover bioequivalence study of Levetiracetam ratiopharm 1000 mg film-coated tablets in 
comparison with Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets in healthy adult human subjects under fasting 
conditions. The study was conducted by a by a contract research organisation based in India between 
17 and 24 December 2009.  
Twenty-eight subjects were administered a single dose of either the test or reference (Keppra) study 
medication, as a 1 x 1000 mg tablet with 240 mL of low carbonated water after an overnight fast of at 
least 10 hours. Subjects were instructed to remain in sitting or ambulatory posture for the first 3 hours 
after dose administration. This was a randomised study design. The order of receiving the test product-
B and the reference product-A for each subject during both the periods of the study was determined 
according to the randomisation schedule. 
The sampling schedule was planned to provide a reliable estimate of the extent of absorption. 23 blood 
samples were collected from each subject during each period to analyse the pharmacokinetic profile of 
the test as well as the reference drug. The samples were collected prior to drug administration and at 
0.167, 0.33, 0.50, 0.67, 0.83, 1.00, 1.167,1.333, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 4.00, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 
12.00, 16.00, 24.00 and 36.00 hours following the drug administration in each period. Samples at 36 
hours were collected on ambulatory basis. A washout period of 5 days was maintained between the 
successive dosing days. 
Test and reference products  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 1 x 1000 mg tablet has been compared to Keppra 1 x 1000 mg tablet 
manufactured by UCB Pharma S.A., Belgium, (Batch No: 47653. Expiry date: March 2011). 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 13/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Population(s) studied   
The sample size was determined based on an intra-subject bioequivalence variability of approximately 
18%, a T/R ratio of 95-105%, a significance level of 5%, a power of > 80% and bioequivalence limits 
of 80-125%. Based on the above estimates, a sample size of 24 subjects was considered to be 
sufficient to establish bioequivalence with adequate power. To allow for dropouts and withdrawals, 28 
subjects were considered to be sufficient.  
A total of 30 subjects, including 2 extra subjects, were recruited for Period I. They were healthy adult, 
human volunteers between 18 - 55 years of age (both inclusive), having a Body Mass Index (BMI) 
between 18.5- 24.9 (both inclusive) and living in the western part of India. Out of these, 28 subjects 
were dosed. The remaining two subjects left the study prior to dosing. 
23 out of 28 subjects completed the study. One subject was withdrawn from the study on medical 
grounds (drowsiness) in period I. Another subject was withdrawn from the study on medical grounds 
(Throat pain and Swallowing difficulty) before dosing in Period II. Three more subjects were withdrawn 
from the study in Period II (emesis and drowsiness). Plasma samples of all the 23 subjects were 
analysed. In addition and based on protocol requirements, study samples of subjects withdrawn on 
medical grounds were also analysed. 
Analytical methods   
The bioanalytical analysis was performed at the bioanalytical department of the contract research 
organisation between December 2009 and January 2010.  
The bioanalytical report (project n° 299-08) and the validation of method for the determination of 
levetiracetam in human plasma using LC-MS/MS (MV-284-09) were provided in the dossier. The 
plasma concentrations of levetiracetam in the study samples were quantified by a validated LC-MS/MS 
method. Concerning the validation of the bioanalytical method, information on the linearity, accuracy 
and precision, recovery, selectivity, sensitivity, matrix effect, short and long term stability was 
provided. The analytical method used was shown to be sensitive, accurate and selective for the plasma 
level determination of levetiracetam in the concentration range of 0.250-40.122 µg/mL. The lower limit 
of quantification (LLOQ) was 0.250 µg/mL. Concentrations below the lower limit of quantification have 
been considered non-quantifiable. Long term stability data of plasma samples for 82 days were 
generated and reported in the dossier.  
A total of 1176 samples were analysed during the study. A total of 20 reanalyses were carried out due 
to the following reasons: 
• Fourteen samples were re-analysed due to concentration above the highest standard. 
• Three samples were reanalysed due to significant variation in response of internal standard. 
• Two samples were reanalysed due to anomalous concentration. 
• One sample was reanalysed as significant drug and internal standard response was observed at the 
retention time and transition of drug and internal standard, which might be due to contamination of 
particular sample vial. 
Consequently, the applicant was requested by the CHMP to discuss the criteria for the re-analysis of 
some of the samples. In their response the applicant clarified that reasons for performing the 
reanalyses were not related to pharmacokinetics. Moreover, it was shown that the re-calculation of the 
PK parameters using the original values for these samples had no influence on the conclusions on 
bioequivalence. The CHMP found the applicant’s responses acceptable. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 14/20 
 
  
 
 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated from the drug-concentration-time profile by non-
compartmental model using WinNonlin Professional Software-Version 5.0.1 (Pharsight Corporation, 
USA).  
The following standard PK parameters were calculated: peak plasma concentration (Cmax), time to 
Cmax (Tmax), areas under the concentration-time curve from 0 to last measurable concentration 
(AUC0-t) and area extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-inf). 
Statistical methods   
Descriptive statistics was computed and reported for all pharmacokinetic parameters of levetiracetam. 
ANOVA, two one-sided tests for bioequivalence, power and ratio analysis for un-transformed and ln-
transformed pharmacokinetic parameters of Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf were computed using PROC 
MIXED of SAS Release 9.1.3. (SAS Institute Inc., USA). 
ANOVA model included sequence, formulation and period as fixed effects and subject (Sequence) as a 
random effect. An F-test was performed to determine the statistical significance of the effects involved 
in the model at a significance level of 5% (alpha=0.05).  
The 90% parametric confidence intervals were calculated for the un-transformed and ln-transformed 
pharmacokinetic parameters of Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf. 
Bioequivalence of test product vs. reference product was concluded, if the 90% confidence interval fell 
within the acceptance range of 80-125% for ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax and 
AUC0-t. 
Results 
The results of the study are presented in table below. 
Table 1.  Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax  median, 
range) 
Treatment 
AUC 0-t 
xg/ml/h 
AUC 0-∞ 
xg/ml/h 
Cmax 
xg/ml 
304 ± 47 
Test 
Reference 
302 ± 45 
*Ratio (90%CI)  101 (99–102)  100 (99–102)  
CV (%) 
315 ± 50 
314 ± 49 
3.3 
3.5 
31 ± 6   
32 ± 8   
97 (92–102) 
10.6 
tmax 
h 
0.833 
0.500 
- 
- 
T1/2 
h 
7.41 ± 0.88 
7.55 ± 0.89 
- 
- 
AUC 0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC 0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
C max   maximum plasma concentration  
T max  
T 1/2  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 15/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The 90% confidence intervals around the geometric means ratio T/R for levetiracetam were in the 
acceptance range of 80-125% for the primary parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax.  
Therefore, the bioequivalence under fasting conditions between Levetiracetam ratiopharm 1000 mg 
tablets and Keppra 1000 mg tablets can be considered as demonstrated. 
Safety data 
A total of 26 adverse events were reported by 16 subjects during the conduct of the study. Out of 
these, 13 adverse events occurred during Period I, and 13 adverse events occurred during Period-II. 
Most of the adverse events were mild in nature and the subjects were followed up till resolution. The 
relationships of six adverse events in the reference group and 16 adverse events in the test group 
were judged as possible to the study drug. The relationships of one adverse event in the reference 
group and three adverse events in the test group were judged as unlikely to the study drug. There 
were four adverse events considered as significant: throat pain and swallowing difficulty and 2 cases 
drowsiness. The first two were considered to be unlikely and the latter two were considered to be 
possible in relationship to the study drug. All of those adverse events resolved without any sequelae. 
There were no deaths or SAE reported. 
Exemption  
Four different strengths of levetiracetam tablets (250, 500, 750, 1000 mg) have been developed by 
the MAH. The application for all the dosage strengths is based on the bioequivalence study with 
levetiracetam 1000 mg film-coated tablets, ratiopharm GmbH.  
This is considered acceptable as all the conditions from section 4.1.6. of the “Guideline on the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1” are fulfilled:  
a) The product levetiracetam 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg & 1000 mg film-coated tablets are 
manufactured by the same manufacturing process and manufacturing site; 
b) The qualitative composition of all the four strengths is the same;  
c) The formulation of all the four strengths is dose-proportional;  
d) In-vitro dissolution profiles are comparable between the strength used in BE study and additional 
strengths at the three pHs (1.0, 4.5 and 6.8). Release of more than 85% occurs after 15 minutes; 
e) Levetiracetam shows linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic range.  
Based on the aforementioned “Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence”, bioequivalence 
testing for levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral solution should not be required, providing:  
a) it is an aqueous oral solution at time of administration which contains an active substance in the 
same concentration as the reference product (Keppra, 100 mg/ml oral solution manufactured by UCB 
Pharma SA, Belgium);  
b) the excipients contained in it do not affect gastrointestinal transit, absorption or in vivo stability of 
the active substance.  
It was noted by the CHMP that Levetiracetam ratiopharm 100 mg/ml oral solution did not contain 
glycerol and maltitol unlike Keppra oral solution. Although the impact of excipients in immediate 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 16/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
release dosage forms on bioavailability of highly soluble and completely absorbable drug substances 
(BCS-class I) was considered unlikely, it was felt that it could have not been excluded.  
Therefore, the applicant was asked to discuss the discrepancy in excipients between the Keppra oral 
solution and the intended oral solution and its impact on gastrointestinal motility and levetiracetam 
bioavailability. In their responses the applicant pointed out that levetiracetam is rapidly and almost 
completely (>95%) absorbed following oral administration of tablet doses ranging from 250 mg to 
5000 mg, it is minimally metabolised and only 0.3-1% of the administered dose is excreted with 
faeces. Moreover, a phase I PK study confirmed that a 10% oral solution of the reference product 
Keppra was bioequivalent to the 750 mg tablet providing additional reassurance that excipients in 
Keppra did not influence the bioavailability of the oral solution. Consequently, the CHMP considered 
that the applicant provided sufficient justification that the discrepancy in excipients between both 
products would have no impact on bioequivalence. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Additional data 
N/A 
2.4.5.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.6.  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
To support this application the applicant submitted one bioequivalence study with classic randomised, 
two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single oral dose, crossover design comparing Levetiracetam 
ratiopharm 1000 mg film-coated tablets with Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets in healthy adult 
human subjects under fasting conditions. 
The bioequivalence study was conducted according to the “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence, CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1”. The study design, sample size, and statistical 
methods were appropriate. The 90% confidence intervals of the ratios of geometric means were in the 
acceptance range of 80-125% for the primary parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax for 
levetiracetam. Formulation, period and sequence effects were found to be statistically insignificant at 
5% significance level for all PK parameters. The inter- and intra-patient variability was low due to the 
high bioavailability, predominantly renal excretion and lack of pharmacokinetic interactions. Therefore, 
bioequivalence was concluded between Levetiracetam ratiopharm 1000 mg tablets and Keppra 1000 
mg tablets with respect to rate and extent of absorption. The extrapolation to other dosage strengths 
was found to be acceptable. Bioequivalence testing for levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral solution was not 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 17/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
required as the requirements of the “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioequivalence, 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1” were considered to be fulfilled.  
There were no deaths or SAE reported. The safety of levetiracetam is well documented and both test 
and reference products are expected to have a comparable adverse drug reaction profile. 
2.4.7.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Levetiracetam ratiopharm is considered bioequivalent 
with Keppra. 
The results of study BE study n°299-08 with 1000 mg formulation can be extrapolated to other 
strengths 250, 500, 750 mg, according to conditions in the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 30 November 2011. 
The PSUR of the reference medicinal product is on a yearly cycle. The PSUR submission schedule 
should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. Additionally, 6-monthly specific safety 
reports for children below 4 years of age in between the yearly PSURs have to be submitted, until 
otherwise decided by the CHMP.  
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring 
additional risk minimisation activities have been identified. 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities according to volume 9A of the NtA will be undertaken whilst the 
product is in the market, including careful review of individual case safety reports, literature review, 
signal detection procedures and generation of the required safety reports. Specific risk minimisation 
activities are not envisaged as the safety aspects of the product are well characterised and therefore a 
risk minimisation plan is not required. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 18/20 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable since the package leaflet of 
this generic application is identical to the reference product except for the product name.  
2.7.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of levetiracetam film-coated tablets and oral solution. The 
reference product Keppra is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Keppra is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
- in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, children 
and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years 
of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this generic application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
 A bioequivalence study with an open-label, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, two-period, two-
sequence, single oral dose, crossover design in healthy adult human subjects under fasting conditions 
constitutes the basis for this application. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice 
of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period was adequate. The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Levetiracetam ratiopharm 1000 mg film-coated tablets met the protocol-
defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared with Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets. The point 
estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-, and Cmax were all 
contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the 
two formulations was demonstrated. 
Based on the “Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioequivalence, CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 
Rev.1”, bioequivalence testing for levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral solution was waived.  
A benefit risk balance comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 19/20 
 
  
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the risk-benefit 
balance of Levetiracetam ratiopharm as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy and 
as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary 
generalisation in adults, children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy, in the treatment of 
myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy, 
and in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy was favourable and therefore recommended  the 
granting of the  marketing authorisation. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/318321/2011  
Page 20/20 
 
  
 
 
 
