23 April 2015 
EMA/CHMP/245829/2015 - adopted 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name: Levemir 
International non-proprietary name: insulin detemir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000528/II/0071 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Novo Nordisk A/S 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.3.2. Clinical pharmacology ...................................................................................... 10 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 10 
2.4.1. Main study ...................................................................................................... 10 
2.4.2. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 20 
2.4.3. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 20 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 20 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 29 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ............................................................................ 29 
2.5.3. PSUR cycle ..................................................................................................... 29 
2.6. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 29 
2.7. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 29 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 30 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 31 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 2/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE  
adverse event 
AACE    
American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists 
ADA  
BMI  
American Diabetes Association 
body mass index 
CHMP    
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
CI  
CTR  
confidence interval 
clinical trial report 
EASD    
European Association for the Study of Diabetes 
EMA  
EU  
FPG  
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
fasting plasma glucose 
GLP-1    
glucagon-like peptide-1 
HbA1c   
glycosylated haemoglobin A1c 
ICH GCP  
International Conference on Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice 
IDeg  
insulin degludec 
IDet 
kg  
insulin detemir 
kilogram 
kg/m2   
kilogram per meter squared 
mg  
milligram 
mmol/L  
millimole per litre 
OAD  
oral anti-diabetic drug 
PD  
PK  
s.c.  
pharmacodynamic(s) 
pharmacokinetic(s) 
subcutaneous(ly) 
SmPC    
Summary of Product Characteristics 
SMPG    
self-measured plasma glucose 
SOC  
system organ class 
T2DM    
type 2 diabetes mellitus 
TEAE  
treatment-emergent adverse event 
TESAE   
treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 3/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U  
UK  
US 
unit 
United Kingdom 
United States 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 4/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Novo Nordisk A/S submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 7 January 2015 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Centrally authorised Medicinal product(s): 
International non-proprietary name 
For presentations: See Annex A 
Levemir 
insulin detemir 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
Extension of indication to use levemir in combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists for the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Consequently, the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.2, 4.5, and 5.1 of the SmPC. The Package 
Leaflet is updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0172/2014 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0172/2014 was completed. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP P/0172/2014. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication.  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 5/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Jens Heisterberg 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Pieter de Graeff 
Timetable 
Actual dates 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report circulated on: 
19 March 2015 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
20 April 2015 
23 April 2015 
Insulin detemir, registered as Levemir in the EU, is indicated for treatment of diabetes mellitus in 
adults, adolescents and children aged 2 years and above. 
Insulin detemir is a long-acting insulin analogue used as a basal insulin. Novo Nordisk was granted 
marketing authorisation for insulin detemir in the European Union (EU) in 2004. 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a progressive disease such that the majority of patients ultimately 
require insulin therapy. The inherent risks of hypoglycaemia and weight gain associated with insulin 
therapy act as barriers to the timely initiation and intensification of insulin therapy. 
Consequently, a considerable number of patients experience suboptimal glycaemic control and fail to 
meet recommended glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) targets set to reduce the risk of long-term 
complications. 
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists can, by allowing a decrease of insulin dose, reduce 
the risks of hypoglycaemia and weight gain inherent to insulin therapy and thereby enable a larger 
proportion of patients to achieve glycaemic targets. In the joint position statement from the American 
Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) for 
treatment of T2DM, the combined use of a GLP-1 receptor agonist and a basal insulin is recommended 
as an option for third-line therapy once patients fail to achieve adequate glycaemic control on second-
line therapy: metformin in combination with either another oral anti-diabetic drug (OAD), a GLP-1 
receptor agonist or a basal insulin. The position statement underscores the importance of 
individualised treatment regimens, and the combined use of a basal insulin and a GLP-1 receptor 
agonist is one recommended option. 
Basal insulins and GLP-1 receptor agonists act through different but complementary mechanisms. 
Basal insulins increase glucose disposal in peripheral tissues and suppress hepatic glucose production 
between meals and during sleep. GLP-1 receptor agonists increase insulin secretion and suppress 
glucagon secretion, both in a glucose-dependent manner. Combination therapy with a basal insulin and 
a GLP-1 receptor agonist takes advantage of the combined effects of both drugs on fasting glucose and 
the effect of GLP-1 receptor agonists on postprandial glycaemic control. When a GLP-1 receptor 
agonist is used with a basal insulin, then compared to insulin treatment alone, the requirement for 
basal insulin may be less, which can result in a lower risk of hypoglycaemia. Furthermore, the 
combined use of GLP-1 receptor agonists and basal insulins has been shown to have beneficial effects 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 6/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on weight control compared to treatment with basal insulins alone due to the appetite and energy 
intake reducing effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists and the smaller dose of insulin required. These 
beneficial effects on glycaemic control, body weight and hypoglycaemia profile make the combined use 
of a GLP-1 receptor agonist and a basal insulin an attractive therapeutic option. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data has been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Market data and marketing approvals for combinations of basal insulins with GLP-1 receptor 
agonists 
Market data from 2012 from the EU [Germany, France and the United Kingdom (UK)] and United 
States (US), indicate that approximately 20% of all patients treated with a GLP-1 receptor agonist also 
use a basal insulin. A study performed by the Association of British Clinical Diabetologists (ABCD) in 
2008 demonstrated that about 40% of patients treated with exenatide twice daily also used insulin, 
with the majority of patients adding exenatide on top of their existing insulin therapy, reflecting the 
fact that the combination of basal insulin and GLP-1 receptor agonists was already then used. 
Based on clinical data, in recent years approvals have been granted in the EU for several GLP-1 
receptor agonists to be used in combination with a basal insulin. Exenatide (Byetta) was approved as 
adjunctive therapy to basal insulin in 2012, and lixisenatide (Lyxumia) was approved in combination 
with basal insulin in 2013. In April 2014 liraglutide (Victoza) was approved for use in combination with 
basal insulin products. More recently, albiglutide and dulaglutide were also approved for the combined 
use with insulin in the EU. 
As well, approvals have been granted in the EU for some basal insulin products to be used in 
combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists. Insulin degludec (Tresiba, [IDeg]) was approved in 
combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists in May 2014, and IDegLira (Xultophy), a fixed ratio 
combination product containing IDeg and liraglutide, received marketing authorisation from the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) in September 2014.  
The use of insulin detemir as add-on therapy to liraglutide treatment was approved in the EU in 2011. 
Further information supporting the variation application 
The present variation application was seeking approval for the use of insulin detemir in combination 
with GLP-1 receptor agonists for the treatment of T2DM. This application was supported by:  
• 
• 
• 
new clinical trial results with insulin detemir;  
published studies in which insulin detemir, among other basal insulin products, was used in 
combination with lixisenatide; and  
extrapolation analogous to that which supported the recent approval of insulin degludec in 
combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists. The approval sought would achieve alignment of 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 7/31 
 
 
 
 
 
information related to combination use in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for 
insulin detemir with the information in the SmPCs of several GLP-1 receptor agonist products. 
The 2011 approval of the use of insulin detemir as add-on therapy to liraglutide treatment was enabled 
by a previous variation application that sought the same broad approval as the present variation 
application: for insulin detemir to be used in combination with any GLP-1 receptor agonist. This 
previous variation application presented data from Trial 3673 and Trial 1842 to establish the efficacy 
and safety of insulin detemir in combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists in subjects with type 2 
diabetes inadequately controlled by liraglutide in combination with metformin. 
Trial 3673 evaluated the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) properties of insulin 
detemir and liraglutide when administered individually and when co-administered to insulin-naïve 
subjects with type 2 diabetes. The Trial 3673 results did not indicate any substantial PK or PD 
interaction between insulin detemir and liraglutide and indicated an additive PD effect of the two 
drugs. 
Trial 1842 evaluated the efficacy and safety of adding insulin detemir for a period of 26 weeks to the 
treatment regimen of insulin-naïve subjects with type 2 diabetes who were inadequately controlled on 
liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin. Treatment with insulin detemir + liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin was 
superior to treatment with liraglutide 1.8 mg + metformin as measured by change from baseline to 
week 26 in HbA1c (estimated treatment difference of -0.52%) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
(estimated treatment difference of -1.73 mmol/L). The safety profile of insulin detemir in Trial 1842 
was consistent with the overall safety profile of combinations of insulin detemir with OADs. 
However CHMP determined that the data provided in the previous variation application was not 
sufficient to justify approval for insulin detemir to be used in combination with any GLP-1 receptor 
agonist stating that no data has been provided supporting the use of liraglutide or other GLP-1 
receptor agonists as add-on therapy to patients with an insufficient response to insulin, and that 
inaddition, the data did not support the combination treatment of insulin with other GLP-1 receptor 
agonists. Accordingly, the insulin detemir SmPC was updated to include only add-on therapy to 
liraglutide treatment at that time 
Summary of new information in support of the present variation application 
Concerning the order of initiation of basal insulin and GLP-1 receptor agonist 
Trial 3917 was a phase 3b clinical trial designed to confirm the superiority of glycaemic control on 
liraglutide versus placebo after 26 weeks of treatment when added to pre-existing basal insulin 
analogue treatment (with or without concomitant metformin treatment) in subjects with T2DM not 
reaching HbA1c<7.0% (target). In Trial 3917, 33% of the subjects (147 out of 450 subjects) used 
insulin detemir as their basal insulin (the insulin detemir subgroup; the remainder used insulin 
glargine); the results from this subgroup are most relevant to the present variation application and are 
detailed here.  
Therefore this assessment report only focuses on a subgroup of subjects in Trial 3917. 
The efficacy and safety results from the insulin detemir subgroup of Trial 3917 demonstrate that 
liraglutide addition to pre-existing treatment with insulin detemir is efficacious and safe, as when the 
same two therapies are initiated in the reverse order, which was demonstrated in Trial 1842. 
Additionally, data from the literature indicate that a net benefit results from the combination of a GLP-
1 receptor agonist and a basal insulin, irrespective of which is the pre-existing treatment and which is 
added on. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 8/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the GLP-1 receptor agonists, liraglutide, exenatide and lixisenatide, that are approved in 
the EU in combination with basal insulin products, including insulin detemir, may be used without 
regard to order of initiation. 
Concerning generalising to combination with any GLP-1 receptor agonist 
Evidence of the efficacy and safety of insulin detemir in combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists 
beyond liraglutide comes from two published studies in which insulin detemir, among other basal 
insulin products, was used in combination with lixisenatide: GetGoal-L and GetGoal-L Asia. In GetGoal-
L, lixisenatide was added for 24 weeks to existing therapy in T2DM patients inadequately controlled on 
basal insulin with or without metformin. Relative to placebo, lixisenatide addition decreased HbA1c, 
decreased post-prandial hyperglycaemia and decreased body weight. In this study 24 (7%) of the 328 
lixisenatide-treated patients were on insulin detemir therapy. In GetGoal-L Asia, lixisenatide was added 
for 24 weeks to existing therapy in Asian T2DM patients inadequately controlled on basal insulin with 
or without sulfonylurea. Relative to placebo, lixisenatide addition decreased HbA1c, decreased post-
prandial hyperglycaemia and decreased FPG. In this study, 83 (27%) of the 311 trial patients, 154 of 
whom received lixisenatide, were on insulin detemir therapy. In total there were two cases of 
unexplained severe hypoglycaemia and no cases of acute pancreatitis in the lixisenatide-treated 
patients. These data were included in the Assessment Report that supported the update of the 
lixisenatide SmPC to include information on combination use with basal insulin products. 
Additionally, the use of the basal insulin, insulin degludec, in combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists 
was approved by the EMA based on extrapolation of efficacy and safety data obtained for insulin 
degludec in combination with liraglutide. Novo Nordisk suggests that similar extrapolation is 
reasonable for insulin detemir with regards to combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists other than 
liraglutide. 
Furthermore, the exenatide SmPC discusses use with basal insulin, and the Assessment Report for 
exenatide specifically mentions insulin detemir: “Overall, the publications… describe exposure of more 
than 5000 subjects to exenatide in combination with short-acting and/or basal insulins, including 
(when specified) insulin glargine and insulin detemir.” 
The proposed insulin detemir SmPC update would align information to physicians with the information 
already appearing in the SmPCs of several GLP-1 receptor agonist products regarding combination use. 
Overall, the CHMP acknowledged that in the EU, all marketed GLP-1 receptor agonists have been 
approved in combination with a basal insulin. Thus, exenatide, lixisenatide and liraglutide have been 
approved as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin. Furthermore, insulin detemir is approved as add-on 
therapy to liraglutide. On the basis on clinical trial 3917, previous published studies with detemir and 
lixisinatide and extrapolation of the approved indication of insulin degludec in combination with GLP-1 
agonist, the MAH is now seeking approval also for the use of insulin detemir in combination with GLP-1 
receptor agonists for the treatment of T2DM. It is emphasised that the approval of insulin degludec in 
combination with GLP-1 agonists in general was granted on the basis of studies all evaluating the use 
of basal insulin (IDeg or IDet) in combination with liraglutide 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 9/31 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
No new relevant data has been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by the 
CHMP. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
In this report the efficacy results from a subgroup of subjects in the phase 3b clinical trial NN2211-
3917 (hereafter referred to as Trial 3917) is assessed. This trial was designed to confirm the 
superiority of glycaemic control on glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist, liraglutide (1.8 
mg dose), versus placebo, randomised 1:1, after 26 weeks of treatment when added to pre-existing 
basal insulin analogue treatment (with or without concomitant metformin) in male and female subjects 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) not reaching glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) <7.0% 
(target). In this trial, 33% (147) of the subjects used insulin detemir as their basal insulin (the insulin 
detemir subgroup; the remainder used insulin glargine). As it is this insulin detemir subgroup that is 
most relevant to the variation application, “Use of insulin detemir in combination with GLP-1 Receptor 
Agonists”, this assessment focuses on the efficacy results from the insulin detemir subgroup, and 
results from the overall trial population are not detailed here. 
2.4.1.  Main study 
Trial design 
Trial 3917 was a 26-week, randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, multi-centre, 
multi-national trial investigating the efficacy and safety of liraglutide in subjects with T2DM.  
Subjects, including 147 subjects using insulin detemir (≥20 U/day), were randomised in a 1:1 manner 
to receive subcutaneous (s.c.) liraglutide 1.8 mg or placebo once daily in addition to their pre-trial 
basal insulin. Subjects initiated liraglutide treatment at 0.6 mg/day at randomization and increased the 
dose to 1.2 mg/day after one week, and further to 1.8 mg/day after two weeks; or they received 
placebo (liraglutide vehicle) analogously. The dose of liraglutide or placebo remained unchanged 
thereafter and until the end of the trial (Figure below). If subjects were treated with metformin at trial 
inclusion, they continued with metformin at a stable, pre-trial dose level, dosing frequency and 
formulation throughout the trial at the discretion of the investigator. Subjects with an HbA 1c>8.0% at 
screening continued their current basal insulin analogue treatment (insulin glargine or insulin detemir) 
at a stable, pre-trial dose level and dosing frequency throughout the trial unless they experienced 
hypoglycaemia or were at risk of hypoglycaemia. Subjects with an HbA1c≤8.0% at screening reduced 
their insulin dose by 20% at randomisation. After reaching the steady-state of liraglutide 1.8 
mg/placebo at end of week 3, insulin could be up-titrated to no higher than the screening dose level 
based on three pre-visit fasting self-measured plasma glucose (SMPG) values at the discretion of the 
investigator. Otherwise, the insulin dose was to be kept at a stable, pre-trial dose level and dosing 
frequency throughout the trial unless subjects experienced hypoglycaemia or were at risk of 
hypoglycaemia. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 10/31 
 
 
 
 
 
At the randomisation visit (week 0), subjects meeting all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria 
were randomised in a 1:1 manner to one of two parallel treatment groups, either liraglutide or 
placebo. Randomisation was stratified based on screening HbA1c (≤8.0% versus >8.0%), metformin 
treatment and type of basal insulin analogue (insulin glargine versus insulin detemir). There were no 
pre-specified targets for the percentage of subjects with a baseline HbA1c≤8.0% versus >8.0% or 
metformin usage in either treatment group. However, subjects were randomised such that neither 
treatment group had <30% or >70% of one type of basal insulin analogue. 
In summary, trial 3917 was a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial 
investigating the efficacy and safety of liraglutide in subjects with T2DM. The substudy of study 3917, 
encompassing 1/3 of the study population includes subjects on insulin detemir. Thus the study further 
supports the combined use of liraglutide and insulin detemir. 
Methods 
•  Study participants  
The trial comprised male and female subjects with T2DM, aged 18−80 years, with a body mass index 
(BMI) of 20−45 kg/m24 and with an HbA1c of 7−10% (all ranges/measurements inclusive). Subjects 
were to have been treated with stable basal insulin analogue dose ± stable metformin for at least 8 
weeks prior to screening. 
Only serious concomitant conditions (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class IV congestive heart 
failure [CHF], history of recent serious cardiac event, neoplasms, renal or hepatic impairment in 
accordance with the current liraglutide [Victoza] labelling, and pre-planned major surgery and similar 
events) which would interfere with trial schedule/procedures precluded subjects from entering into the 
trial. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 11/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Treatments 
Trial 3917 was 26 weeks in duration to ensure the full effect of treatment on the primary endpoint, 
change in HbA1c from baseline.  
The maximum recommended daily dose of liraglutide (1.8 mg/day) was used. In the insulin detemir + 
liraglutide group, liraglutide was initiated with a starting dose of 0.6 mg/day, with subsequent weekly 
dose escalations of 0.6 mg/day in accordance with the approved dose escalation for liraglutide until the 
maintenance dose of 1.8 mg/day was reached. In the insulin detemir + placebo group, placebo 
(liraglutide vehicle) was dosed analogously. 
The trial design included a placebo control group to show that liraglutide added-on to background basal 
insulin analogue with or without metformin was more effective than placebo in lowering glycaemic 
parameters. 
Subjects were treated with a minimum stable basal insulin analogue dose of 20 U/day ± stable 
metformin ≥1500 mg/day for at least 8 weeks prior to screening. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint of Trial 3917 was the change in HbA1c from baseline to week 26. Blood 
samples for determination of HbA1c were drawn at screening, at randomisation (week 0) and after 4, 
8, 12, 20 and 26 weeks. 
Only secondary efficacy endpoints in Trial 3917 that are relevant to the variation application, are 
described below.  
Supportive endpoints related to HbA1c included proportions of subjects achieving the American 
Diabetes Association (ADA) glycaemic target of HbA1c<7.0% and the American Association of Clinical 
Endocrinologists (AACE) target of HbA1c≤6.5% at end of trial. These subjects were designated 
‘responders’. Furthermore, a composite responder endpoint reflected responders with respect to HbA1c 
targets who did not experience minor or severe treatment-emergent hypoglycaemic episodes. 
•  Statistical methods 
In Trial 3917, the analysis sets were defined in accordance with ICH E9.5 
• 
Full analysis set (FAS) – included all randomised subjects who received at least one dose of 
trial product (liraglutide or placebo) and who provided at least one post-baseline efficacy value. 
In exceptional cases, subjects or observations from the FAS may be eliminated. In such cases, 
the elimination is justified and documented. The statistical evaluation of the FAS followed the 
intention-to-treat (ITT) principle and subjects contributed to the evaluation “as randomised”. 
•  Safety analysis set (SAS) – included all subjects who received at least one dose of the trial 
product. Subjects in the safety set contributed to the evaluation “as treated”. 
The primary endpoint (change in HbA1c from baseline to week 26) was analysed using a mixed model 
repeated measurements (MMRM) analysis of all data for changes in HbA1c from baseline to week 4, 8, 
12, 20, and 26, with treatment, country and stratification groups as factors and baseline HbA1c as a 
covariate, all nested within week. An unstructured covariance matrix was used to describe the 
variability for the repeated measurements for a subject. The mean treatment difference at week 26 
was estimated from this model, and a 95% confidence interval (CI) and the associated two-sided p-
value were calculated. The FAS was used for this analysis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 12/31 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective of the trial was to confirm superiority of liraglutide vs. placebo as add-on to the 
pre-existing basal insulin analogue therapy ± metformin. The test of superiority is a two-sided test of 
the null hypothesis of no difference between the two treatment groups with respect to change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of treatment. The alternative hypothesis is that there is a 
difference between the two treatment groups. The superiority of liraglutide will be considered 
confirmed when the 95% CI for the estimated treatment difference (liraglutide minus placebo) in 
change from baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of treatment lies entirely below 0%. 
An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model with treatment, country and stratification groups as factors 
and baseline HbA1c as a covariate was fitted to the primary endpoint as a sensitivity analysis. The last 
observation carried forward (LOCF) method was used to impute missing values. The treatment 
difference at week 26 was estimated from this model and a 95% CI and the associated p-value were 
calculated. The FAS was used for this analysis. 
The same MMRM analysis that was used for the primary endpoint was also used for most of the 
continuous secondary efficacy endpoints. The only change was with regard to the covariate, where the 
baseline value of the variable in question was used instead of baseline HbA1c. 
Daily basal insulin dose was assumed to be log-normally distributed; consequently, the insulin dose 
data were log-transformed before being analysed. The log-transformed insulin dose data were 
analysed in an MMRM with treatment, country and stratification groups as factors and the log-
transformed baseline basal insulin dose as a covariate, all nested within visit. A compound symmetry 
model for the covariance structure was used, since the model with an unstructured covariance matrix 
would not converge. The treatment difference after 26 weeks of treatment was estimated from this 
model, and a 95% CI was calculated. The estimated mean difference and the CI were back-
transformed to the original scale; thus the mean difference on the log-scale transforms to an insulin 
dose ratio (liraglutide over placebo) on the original scale. 
The dichotomous (responder) endpoints were analysed by a logistic regression model with treatment, 
country and stratification groups as factors and with HbA1c at baseline as a covariate. The treatment 
odds ratio was estimated from this model and a 95% CI and associated p-value were calculated. In 
addition, percentages were estimated for each treatment group from the estimated odds for treatment 
group as: 
Where there were too few subjects in a stratum within a country, it may have been necessary to 
remove the country factor from the model. Similarly, if there were convergence issues due to few 
subjects in a stratum, it may have been necessary to exclude that stratum from the analysis. 
In order to obtain consistency between the statistical analyses of the continuous endpoints and the 
dichotomous endpoints, missing values for the continuous assessments were imputed from the 
predicted values from the MMRM models using empirical best linear unbiased predictors; imputed 
values for the continuous endpoints were used in the analysis of corresponding dichotomous endpoints. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were summarised descriptively. TEAE data were 
presented as the number of subjects with at least one event, the percentage of subjects with at least 
one event, the number of events, and the event rate [number of events per 1000 patient (subject) 
years of exposure]. In addition, the TEAEs were summarised by seriousness, severity, relation to trial 
product, withdrawal due to AEs and outcome. Summary tables by system organ class (SOC), high level 
group term (HLGT) and preferred term (PT) were prepared for all TEAEs and for PTs occurring in at 
least 5% of the subjects in any treatment arm. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 13/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total number of treatment-emergent confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during 26 weeks of 
treatment was presented descriptively as the number of subjects with at least one episode, the 
percentage of subjects with at least one episode, the number of episodes, and the episode rate 
[number of episodes per 100 patient (subject) years of exposure]. In addition, the total number of 
treatment-emergent hypoglycaemic episodes during the 26 weeks of treatment was analysed using a 
negative binomial regression model with a log link function and the logarithm of the time period in 
which the hypoglycaemic episodes were considered treatment-emergent as an offset. The model 
included treatment, country and stratification groups as factors and the baseline HbA1c value as 
covariate. The treatment rate ratio was estimated from this model, and a 95% CI and associated p-
value were calculated. 
The following clinically relevant endpoints were analysed for the insulin detemir subgroup: change in 
HbA1c after 26 weeks of treatment, HbA1c responder endpoints, change in FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment, change in body weight after 26 weeks of treatment, daily basal insulin dose after 26 weeks 
of treatment and number of hypoglycaemic episodes. Furthermore, TEAE data for this subgroup were 
presented. Approximately one third of the subjects in the full Trial 3917 contributed with data to the 
analyses for the insulin detemir subgroup. The FAS and SAS were identical for the insulin detemir 
subgroup. 
It was not possible to fit the exact same statistical model for hypoglycaemic episodes in the insulin 
detemir subgroup as the model used for the full trial population; the country factor had to be excluded 
from the model. Therefore, an extra sensitivity analysis in which the country factor was excluded from 
the MMRM model was added for change in HbA1c, change in FPG and change in body weight.  
In addition, for the hypoglycaemic episodes and for the responder endpoints, the stratum “without 
metformin” was too small and had to be excluded from the analysis. This was in line with the analysis 
of the full trial population, where the stratum “insulin detemir without metformin” was removed from 
the analyses. 
Overall, approximately one third of the subjects in the full Trial 3917 contributed with data to the 
analyses for the insulin detemir subgroup. The FAS and SAS were identical for the insulin detemir 
subgroup. It was not possible to fit the exact same statistical model for hypoglycaemic episodes in the 
insulin detemir subgroup as the model used for the full trial population; the country factor had to be 
excluded from the model. Therefore, an additional sensitivity analysis in which the country factor was 
excluded from the MMRM model was added for change in HbA1c, change in FPG and change in body 
weight. This was considered to be acceptable by CHMP. 
Results  
•  Participant flow  
A total of 147 subjects using insulin detemir in Trial 3917 were randomised with 75 subjects in the 
insulin detemir + liraglutide group and 72 in the insulin detemir + placebo group. All randomised 
subjects were exposed to the trial product (liraglutide or placebo), and 124 subjects (84.4%) 
completed the trial: 69 subjects (92.0%) in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group and 55 subjects 
(76.4%) in the insulin detemir + placebo group (Table 2–2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 14/31 
 
 
 
 
 
In the insulin detemir + liraglutide group, 6 subjects (8.0%) withdrew from the trial, of whom 3 
subjects (4.0%) withdrew due to an adverse event, 2 subjects (2.7%) withdrew due to non-
compliance with the protocol, and 1 subject (1.3%) withdrew at will. 
In the insulin detemir + placebo group, 17 subjects (23.6%) withdrew from the trial: 1 subject (1.4%) 
withdrew due to non-compliance with the protocol and 16 subjects (22.2%) fulfilled withdrawal 
criteria. Three reasons for fulfilling withdrawal criteria were given: “safety concern or judged non-
compliant” (7 subjects; 9.7%), “subject may withdraw at will at any time” (6 subjects; 8.3%) and 
“unacceptable hyperglycemia” (3 subjects; 4.2%). 
•  Demographic and Baseline data 
Demographics and baseline characteristics of the insulin detemir subgroup subjects randomised in Trial 
3917 are summarised in Table 2–1. The treatment groups were well-balanced with respect to 
demographics and baseline characteristics with a few differences that were not considered clinically 
important. Subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide tended to be older than subjects treated 
with insulin detemir + placebo with mean ages of 61.7 and 57.6 years, respectively; however, their 
mean durations of diabetes were similar (12.0 versus 11.5 years). Mean baseline body weight was 
lower in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group (88.7 kg) than in the insulin detemir + placebo group 
(92.4 kg); however, baseline BMI was similar (31.9 versus 32.4 kg/m2). All subjects treated with 
insulin detemir + placebo took metformin, whereas 5.3% of subjects treated with insulin detemir + 
liraglutide did not. Although mean baseline FPG was slightly higher for the insulin detemir + liraglutide 
group than for the insulin detemir +placebo group (8.7 mmol/L versus 8.3 mmol/L), no difference in 
mean baseline HbA1c values between the two groups was observed (8.2% in both groups). 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 15/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the treatment groups were well-balanced with respect to demographics and baseline 
characteristics 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint – change in HbA1c 
For the insulin detemir subgroup of Trial 3917, the efficacy of liraglutide versus placebo addition was 
evident from the change in observed HbA1c mean values over the 26-week trial period (Figure 2–1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 16/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The estimated mean HbA1c values after 26 weeks of treatment were 6.93% and 8.24% for the insulin 
detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + placebo treatment groups, respectively. The estimated 
mean changes in HbA1c from baseline to week 26 were −1.24% for subjects treated with insulin 
detemir + liraglutide and +0.07% for subjects treated with insulin detemir + placebo; the estimated 
treatment difference was −1.31% [−1.67; −0.94]95% CI (p<0.0001) (Table 2–3). Treatment with 
insulin detemir + liraglutide was therefore superior to insulin detemir + placebo in terms of change in 
HbA1c from baseline to week 26, and this conclusion is supported by sensitivity analysis based on 
LOCF.  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 17/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints and insulin detemir dose 
Proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c targets 
There were three responder secondary endpoints evaluated for the insulin detemir subgroup: 
HbA1c<7.0% (ADA target); HbA1c≤6.5% (AACE target); and HbA1c<7.0% with no minor or severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes. 
HbA1c<7.0% (ADA target) 
The estimated percentages of responders achieving HbA1c<7.0% at week 26 were 59.1% in the insulin 
detemir + liraglutide group and 10.3% in the insulin detemir + placebo group. The estimated odds 
ratio was 12.60 [4.93; 32.18]95% CI (p<0.0001). Statistically significantly more subjects treated with 
insulin detemir + liraglutide reached target compared to subjects treated with insulin detemir + 
placebo.  
HbA1c≤6.5% (AACE target) 
The estimated percentages of responders achieving HbA1c ≤6.5% at week 26 were 45.2% in the 
insulin detemir + liraglutide group and 1.0% in the insulin detemir + placebo group. The estimated 
odds ratio was 83.81 [10.47; 670.9]95% CI (p<0.0001). Statistically significantly more subjects 
treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide reached target compared to subjects treated with insulin 
detemir + placebo.  
HbA1c<7.0% with no minor or severe hypoglycaemic episodes 
The estimated percentages of responders achieving HbA1c<7.0% who had no minor or severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes were 48.9% in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group and 9.9% in the insulin 
detemir + placebo group. The estimated odds ratio was 8.75 [3.48; 21.98]95% CI (p<0.0001). 
Statistically significantly more subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide reached target with no 
minor or severe hypoglycaemic episodes compared to subjects treated with insulin detemir + placebo.  
Fasting plasma glucose 
The estimated mean changes in FPG after 26 weeks of treatment were −1.13 mmol/L and −0.20 
mmol/L for the insulin detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + placebo treatment groups, 
respectively, resulting in an estimated treatment difference of −0.93 mmol/L [−1.65; −0.21]95% CI 
(p=0.0122). The estimated mean FPG values after 26 weeks of treatment were 7.20 mmol/L and 8.13 
mmol/L, respectively, for the insulin detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + placebo treatment 
groups.  
Body weight 
The estimated mean changes in body weight from baseline to week 26 were −3.47 kg and −0.43 kg in 
the insulin detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + placebo groups, respectively. The estimated 
treatment difference was −3.04 kg [−4.38; −1.70]95% CI (p<0.0001).  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 18/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insulin detemir dose 
A reduction in initial insulin dose for subjects with baseline HbA1c≤8.0% (requested per protocol) was 
reflected in initial decreases in all measures of observed insulin dose in both treatment groups. 
Following subsequent dose titration, numerically lower values of all insulin dose measures were 
observed for the subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide than for the subjects treated with 
insulin detemir + placebo. This is exemplified by Figure 2–2, which plots observed insulin detemir daily 
dose per kg body weight ratio to baseline by treatment week. 
The estimated mean insulin detemir daily doses per kg body weight (U/kg) after 26 weeks of 
treatment were 0.43 U/kg and 0.45 U/kg in the insulin detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + 
placebo groups, respectively. The corresponding ratios to baseline were 0.92 and 0.98, and the 
estimated treatment ratio was 0.94 [0.90; 0.98]95% CI (p=0.0041).  
Summary of efficacy results 
The decrease in HbA1c after 26 weeks of treatment was greater with insulin detemir + liraglutide 1.8 
mg than with insulin detemir + placebo, and superiority was thus confirmed for insulin detemir + 
liraglutide 1.8 mg compared with insulin detemir + placebo. In addition, secondary supportive analyses 
showed a greater percentage of responders in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group than in the insulin 
detemir + placebo group for every responder endpoint: HbA1c<7.0% (ADA target), HbA1c≤6.5% 
(AACE target) and HbA1c<7.0% with no minor or severe hypoglycaemic episodes. 
The decrease in FPG from baseline to week 26 was greater with insulin detemir + liraglutide treatment 
than with insulin detemir + placebo, as was weight loss. These results were associated with a lower 
daily dose of insulin detemir in subjects treated with liraglutide compared to those treated with 
placebo. Moreover, these results for the insulin detemir subgroup are consistent with the results from 
the full trial population of Trial 3917 and are statistically significant, despite the smaller data set. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 19/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the decrease in HbA1c after 26 weeks was greater with liraglutide than with placebo, and 
superiority was confirmed. Secondary supportive analyses were in accordance with that and also a 
lower daily dose of insulin detemir was observed in subjects treated with liraglutide compared to 
placebo. The results are in line with the results from the full trial population of Trial 3917.  
2.4.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy results were provided from a subgroup of subjects in the phase 3b clinical trial 3917 designed 
to confirm the superiority of liraglutide (1.8 mg dose), versus placebo, added to basal insulin. In the 
present variation application focus was on the subgroup of subjects (147) using insulin detemir as their 
basal insulin. The sub-study showed that liraglutide was superior for achieving glycaemic control 
versus placebo, i.e. greater HbA1c reduction, greater proportions of subjects achieving responder 
endpoints related to HbA1c targets and hypoglycaemic episodes after 26 weeks of treatment. These 
benefits were achieved using a lower daily dose of insulin and the results were consistent with the 
results from the full trial population.  
2.4.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The data showed that addition of liraglutide in subjects suboptimally controlled on insulin detemir is 
superior for achieving glycaemic control compared to placebo.  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
This safety section focuses on a subgroup of subjects in Trial 3917, a phase 3b clinical trial designed to 
confirm the superiority of liraglutide versus placebo for glycaemic control after 26 weeks of treatment 
when added to pre-existing basal insulin analogue treatment (with or without concomitant metformin 
treatment) in subjects with T2DM not reaching HbA1c<7.0% (target). In Trial 3917, 33% of the 
subjects used insulin detemir as their basal insulin (the insulin detemir subgroup). This safety section 
focuses on the results from the insulin detemir subgroup, as the results from this subgroup are most 
relevant to the present variation application.  
Patient exposure 
Exposure data for the insulin detemir subgroup of Trial 3917 (75 subjects in the insulin detemir + 
liraglutide group and 72 in the insulin detemir + placebo group) are summarised in the table below. 
For these subjects, over the 26-week trial period, the total exposure for the insulin detemir + 
liraglutide group was 35.5 years, and for the insulin detemir + placebo group, total exposure was 31.6 
years. The mean exposures for the two groups were 0.47 and 0.44 years, respectively, which were 
similar to the mean exposures for the full Trial 3917 populations 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 20/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean exposures for the insulin detemir + liraglutide and insulin detemir + placebo groups were 0.47 
and 0.44 years, respectively, which were similar to the mean exposures for the full Trial 3917 
populations. 
Adverse events 
Definition, handling, coding and adjudication of events 
Only TEAEs were used for the tabulation and analysis of AEs. In Trial 3917, a TEAE, other than a 
hypoglycaemic episode, was defined as an event that had an onset date (or increase in severity) on or 
after the first day of exposure to randomised treatment and no later than seven days after the last day 
of randomised treatment. A hypoglycaemic episode was defined as treatment-emergent if the onset of 
the episode was on or after the first day of exposure to randomised treatment and no later than the 
day after last administration of trial product.  
An external, independent events adjudication committee (EAC) was established for Trial 3917 to 
perform adjudication, standardisation and assessment of events of neoplasms and events of thyroid 
disease requiring thyroidectomy, including partial thyroidectomy (e.g., lobectomy, partial lobectomy) 
in an independent and blinded manner for randomised subjects. All neoplasm events, irrespective of 
malignancy stage, were adjudicated.  
Analysis of adverse events 
Adverse events overall 
TEAEs were more common in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group (69.3% of subjects, 4202 events 
per 1000 PYE) than in the insulin detemir + placebo group (51.4% of subjects, 3866 events per 1000 
PYE).  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 21/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAEs by system organ class (SOC), high level group term (HLGT) and preferred term (PT) are 
presented below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 22/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common adverse events 
TEAEs occurring in at least 5% of subjects (4 or more subjects) in either treatment group at the PT 
level are presented in Table 2–1. The most common TEAEs in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group 
were gastrointestinal disorders (37.3% of subjects, 1241 events per 1000 PYE), infections and 
infestations (24.0% of subjects, 959 events per 1000 PYE), and musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders (16.0% of subjects, 395 events per 1000 PYE). The most commonly reported TEAEs in the 
insulin detemir + placebo group were infections and infestations (27.8% of subjects, 951 events per 
1000 PYE), gastrointestinal disorders (20.8% of subjects, 665 events per 1000 PYE), and 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (16.7% of subjects, 444 events per 1000 PYE). 
Thus, the greatest difference in TEAEs between the two treatment groups was observed for 
gastrointestinal disorders, particularly nausea, which was experienced by 29.3% of subjects in the 
insulin detemir + liraglutide group (790 events per 1000 PYE) and 6.9% of subjects in the insulin 
detemir + placebo group (190 events per 1000 PYE). 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 23/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAEs within the SOC gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., nausea) are known adverse drug reactions of 
liraglutide and other drugs in the GLP-1 receptor agonist class. The higher rates of gastrointestinal 
disorders reported in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group were therefore expected and were 
consistent with previous results from the liraglutide clinical programme. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes 
Hypoglycaemic episodes were categorised according to the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 
classification3 . 
Because in normal physiology hypoglycaemic symptoms occur at plasma glucose (PG) levels of 
approximately 3.1 mmol/L (56mg/dL), Novo Nordisk has defined an additional term, “minor 
hypoglycaemia”, which is either an episode with symptoms consistent with hypoglycaemia with 
confirmation by plasma glucose <3.1 mmol/L (56 mg/dL) or whole blood glucose <2.8 mmol/L (50 
mg/dL), and which is handled by the subject him/herself; or is any asymptomatic plasma glucose 
value <3.1 mmol/L (56 mg/dL) or whole blood glucose value <2.8 mmol/L (50 mg/dL). 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes comprised minor hypoglycaemic episodes (MAH classification) and 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes (ADA classification). Hypoglycaemic episodes were classified as 
nocturnal if the time of onset was between 00:01 and 05:59, both inclusive. 
There were no severe hypoglycaemic episodes in either group. Treatment-emergent confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes were observed for a similar percentage of subjects and at similar rates for 
subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group (13.3%, 68 episodes per 100 PYE) compared to 
subjects in the insulin detemir + placebo group (12.5%, 67 episodes per 100 PYE) (Table 2–2). No 
statistically significant difference was seen between treatment groups in the rates of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes; the estimated treatment rate ratio for insulin detemir + liraglutide versus 
insulin detemir + placebo was 1.19 with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of [0.34; 4.14]95% CI 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 24/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(p=0.7846). The rate of overall hypoglycaemia according to ADA classification was numerically higher 
for the insulin detemir + liraglutide group (415 episodes per 100 PYE with 40.0% of subjects 
experiencing an episode) compared to the insulin detemir + placebo group (377 episodes per 100 PYE 
with 29.2% of subjects experiencing an episode) (Table 2–2). Compared to subjects in the insulin 
detemir + placebo group, subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group experienced numerically 
higher rates of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia (31 episodes per 100 PYE versus 16 episodes per 
100 PYE, respectively, with 6.7% versus 2.8% of subjects experiencing an episode) and nocturnal 
overall hypoglycaemia (107 episodes per 100 PYE versus 51 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively, with 
13.3% versus 9.7% of subjects experiencing an episode). 
Hypoglycaemia results may be related to insulin detemir dose, and the addition of liraglutide led to a 
decrease in insulin detemir dose. 
Summary of adverse events 
The greatest difference in TEAEs between the two treatment groups was observed for the SOC 
gastrointestinal disorders. Subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group experienced more 
gastrointestinal disorders, particularly nausea, than subjects in the insulin detemir + placebo group. 
Gastrointestinal disorders are known adverse drug reactions of liraglutide and other drugs in the GLP-1 
receptor agonist class, and they were expected in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group based on 
previous results from the liraglutide clinical programme. 
There were no TEAEs with a fatal outcome during this trial. Two post-treatment deaths were reported, 
both of which were judged unlikely to be related to trial product. 
Five subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group were reported to have experienced TESAEs; all 
of which were classified by the investigator as unlikely to be related to the trial product and no two of 
which were of the same type. 
Three subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide withdrew from this trial due to TEAEs. Two of 
these subjects withdrew due to TEAEs that were classified as having a possible or probable relation to 
the trial product and were all non-serious. 
There were no severe hypoglycaemic episodes in either treatment group. Treatment-emergent 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were observed for a similar percentage of subjects and at similar 
rates in the two treatment groups. The rates of overall hypoglycaemia according to ADA classification, 
nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia and nocturnal overall hypoglycaemia were numerically higher for 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 25/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the insulin detemir + liraglutide group; however, the percentage of subjects reaching HbA1c target 
without hypoglycaemia was also greater for the insulin detemir + liraglutide group. 
These safety results for the insulin detemir subgroup are consistent with the safety results from the full 
trial population of Trial 3917, and the overall safety profile of liraglutide 1.8 mg added to insulin 
detemir is consistent with the individual overall safety profiles of liraglutide and insulin detemir as 
described in their respective Summaries of Product Characteristics. 
Overall, as expected the greatest difference in TEAEs between the treatment groups was observed for 
the SOC gastrointestinal disorders. Subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group experienced 
more gastrointestinal disorders, particularly nausea, than subjects in the insulin detemir + placebo 
group. There were no severe hypoglycaemic episodes in either treatment group. TEAE confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes were observed for a similar percentage of subjects and at similar rates in the 
two treatment groups. The rates of overall hypoglycaemia nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemia and 
nocturnal overall hypoglycaemia were numerically higher for the insulin detemir + liraglutide group; 
however, the percentage of subjects reaching HbA1c target without hypoglycaemia was also greater for 
the insulin detemir + liraglutide group.  
These safety results for the insulin detemir subgroup are consistent with the safety results from the  
full trial population of Trial 3917  and the overall safety profile of liraglutide 1.8 mg added to insulin 
detemir is consistent with the individual overall safety profiles of liraglutide and insulin detemir as 
described in their respective SmPCs.  
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths 
There were no TEAEs with a fatal outcome during this trial. Two post-treatment deaths were reported: 
A 67-year-old female treated with liraglutide for 123 days prior to withdrawal due to SAEs (pneumonia, 
fracture of the right ankle joint and foot after a fall, and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction) that 
were not considered related to the trial product. The subject had a previous history of breast cancer for 
which she was treated with radiotherapy. At screening, the subject was taking insulin detemir and 
metformin, and had an HbA1c≤8.0%. Approximately 2 months after withdrawal from the trial, the 
subject was admitted to the hospital with epigastric pain, and an abdominal computed tomography 
(CT) scan confirmed a pancreatic tumour with liver and lymph node metastases. The tumour was 
assumed to be malignant as no biopsy was performed; the tumour was inoperable and no additional 
treatment was initiated. The subject was also treated for Escherichia coli septicaemia during this 
hospitalisation. The subject was discharged 11 days after hospitalisation and died approximately 1 
week later after a short period of palliative care. The investigator deemed both the pancreatic tumour 
and E. coli septicaemia as unlikely to be related to the trial product (liraglutide). 
A 64-year-old male treated with placebo for 36 days and was then withdrawn due to safety/non-
compliance. The subject was diagnosed with T2DM in 2003 and had renal impairment since 2012. 
There was no known personal or family history of cancer. At screening, the subject was taking insulin 
detemir and metformin, and had an HbA1c>8.0%. At the end of trial visit, no complaints were 
reported. Two months after the end of trial visit, the subject was hospitalised due to the progression of 
left-sided paresis and dysarthria over the past 3 months. Two days later, a magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) confirmed a brain tumour in the right parietal lobe. No biopsy was performed, and no 
treatment options were available. The subject died approximately 7 weeks after diagnosis. The 
investigator deemed this event as unlikely to be related to the trial product (placebo). 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 26/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Other serious adverse events 
Five subjects in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group were reported to have experienced 9 treatment-
emergent serious adverse event (TESAEs); no subjects in the insulin detemir + placebo group were 
reported to have experienced any TESAE (please see table below). All TESAEs were classified by the 
investigator as unlikely to be related to the trial product. All subjects recovered from all TESAEs by the 
end of the trial. The 9 TESAEs included 3 severe TESAEs, all of which occurred in one subject: 
pneumonia, fall and acute myocardial infarction; see also information about the 67-year-old female 
above. There were 3 moderate and 3 mild TEAEs. No 2 TESAEs were of the same type. 
Overall, there were no TEAEs with a fatal outcome during this trial. Two post-treatment deaths were 
reported. 
Laboratory findings 
No specific analysis was made for the subgroup of subjects using insulin detemir as their basal insulin. 
Safety in special populations 
For the subgroup of subjects in Trial 3917 using insulin detemir as their basal insulin, no further 
subanalysis was performed. 
Immunological events 
N/A 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
N/A 
Discontinuation due to AES 
A total of 6 TEAEs reported in 3 subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide and no TEAEs in 
subjects treated with insulin detemir + placebo led to withdrawal from this trial. Of the 6 TEAEs leading 
to withdrawal, 3 were classified by the investigator as unlikely to be related to the trial product: 
pneumonia, fall and acute myocardial infarction; all serious and severe). Two TEAEs were classified by 
the investigator as having a possible relation to the trial product: non-serious, increased lipase 
classified as mild in severity and non-serious, severe headache. One TEAE was deemed probably 
related to the trial product: non-serious, severe nausea. The subjects recovered from all of these 
TEAEs by the end of the trial. 
Three subjects in the insulin detemir + placebo group were withdrawn due to the distinct withdrawal 
criterion “unacceptable hyperglycaemia”. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 27/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, a total of 6 TEAEs reported in 3 subjects treated with insulin detemir + liraglutide and no 
TEAEs in subjects treated with insulin detemir + placebo led to withdrawal from this trial 
Post marketing experience 
The post-marketing safety data for liraglutide and insulin detemir that is received by the MAH are 
made available in periodic safety update reports (PSURs)/periodic benefit risk evaluation reports 
(PBRERs) according to the regulatory requirements. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 28/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
As expected well-known AEs occurring with liraglutide treatment were common in the insulin detemir + 
liraglutide group and considered to be related to trial product. There were no TEAEs that were 
considered to be related to trial product, and there were no unexpected patterns of TEAEs of any kind. 
Hypoglycaemia rates was similar or higher in the insulin detemir + liraglutide group compared to the 
insulin detemir + placebo group. In line with that and as emphasised previously, the percentage of 
subjects reaching HbA1c target without hypoglycaemia was also greater for the insulin detemir + 
liraglutide group. No severe hypoglycaemic episodes were reported. Importantly, safety results for this 
sub-study are consistent with the safety results from the full trial population of Trial 3917. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The safety profile of liraglutide added to insulin detemir is consistent with the individual overall safety 
profiles of liraglutide and insulin detemir.  
2.5.3.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
Analysis of data from Trial 3917 did not lead to a significant change to the established benefit risk 
profile of insulin detemir, and the MAH confirms that the current approved risk management plan 
remains unchanged and applicable. 
The current risk management plan was found to be acceptable. 
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
SmPC 
Section 4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The potency of insulin analogues, including insulin detemir, is expressed in units, whereas the potency 
of human insulin is expressed in international units. 1 unit insulin detemir corresponds to 
1 international unit of human insulin. 
Levemir can be used alone as the basal insulin or in combination with bolus insulin. It can also be used 
in combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products and/or GLP-1 receptor agonists.or as add-on 
therapy to liraglutide treatment. 
In combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products and as add-on to liraglutide When Levemir is 
used in combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products or when added to GLP-1 receptor 
agonists it is recommended to use Levemir once daily, initially at a dose of 10 units or 0.1-
0.2 units/kg. The dose of Levemir should be titrated based on the individual patient’s needs.  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 29/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When a GLP-1 receptor agonist is added to Levemir, it is recommended to reduce the dose of Levemir 
by 20% to minimise the risk of hypoglycaemia. Subsequently, dosage should be adjusted individually.  
Sections 4.5 and 5.1   
These sections have also been updated (see SmPC text). 
Package leaflet  
The Package leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
The purpose of the current variations application is to propose a labelling update for the use of insulin 
detemir in combination with glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists. 
Beneficial effects 
In study 3917 a subgroup of 1/3 of the study population was using insulin detemir as their basal 
insulin and it was shown that addition of liraglutide was superior for achieving glycaemic control 
compared to placebo and the benefits were achieved using a lower daily dose of insulin and weight 
loss. Further supporting the variation application are data from previous published studies with insulin 
detemir and lixisenatide and extrapolation from the approved indication of insulin degludec in 
combination with GLP-1 agonists. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The clinical trials included with this variation application evaluate the use of detemir in combination 
with liraglutide. No data on the use of insulin detemir in combination with other GLP-1 agonists, e.g. 
exenatide or lixisenatide, has been submitted. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The safety profile of liraglutide added to insulin detemir was consistent with the well-known individual 
overall safety profiles of liraglutide and insulin detemir. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There are no new uncertainties or safety concerns evoked in relation to the combination therapy. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The addition of liraglutide to insulin detemir treatment has been shown to result in clinically relevant 
reduction of HbA1c. This reduction was achieved at a relatively low risk of hypoglycaemia and using a 
lower daily dose of insulin as well as weight loss. These effects are all considered of benefit in a T2DM 
population in need of intensified treatment. The safety data provided does not indicate any changes in 
the safety profiles for detemir or liraglutide when administered in combination. The adverse events 
known to occur with liraglutide predominated the adverse event reporting. These events are well 
known and are considered manageable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 30/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
In the EU all GLP-1 receptor agonists authorised  at the time of this report have been approved for the 
use in combination with a basal insulin. Thus, exenatide, lixisenatide,liraglutide, albiglutide and 
dulaglutide have been approved as adjunctive therapy to (basal) insulin. The MAH was seeking 
approval for the use of detemir in combination with any GLP-1 agonist. The submitted new study 
further supports the combined use of liraglutide and insulin detemir, which was already approved as 
add-on therapy to liraglutide in the SmPC of Detemir. The study in itself alone does not fully support 
the combined use with other GLP-1 agonists. However, as argued by the MAH the use of insulin 
detemir with other GLP-1 agonists is supported by published studies in which insulin detemir, among 
other basal insulin products, was used in combination with lixisenatide. Furthermore it is emphasized 
that the approval of insulin degludec in combination with GLP-1 agonists was based on extrapolation of 
data on the use of basal (degludec or detemir) in combination only with liraglutide. It is therefore 
accepted that the data obtained with detemir and liraglutide, together with the other information 
provided, can be extrapolated to sufficiently support the use of detemir in combination with GLP-1 
receptor agonists in general.  
Conclusion 
The benefit risk balance for the use of insulin detemir (Levemir) in combination with GLP-1 receptor 
agonists is considered positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change(s): 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
a new therapeutic indication or modification of an approved 
one  
Extension of indication to use levemir in combination with GLP-1 receptor agonists for the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
Consequently, the MAH proposed the update of sections 4.2, 4.5 and 5.1 of the SmPC. The Package 
Leaflet is updated in accordance. 
The variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/357426/2015  
Page 31/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
