EMA/857470/2015 
EMEA/H/C/002051 
Levetiracetam Sun (levetiracetam) 
An overview of Levetiracetam Sun and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Levetiracetam Sun and what is it used for? 
Levetiracetam Sun is an epilepsy medicine. It can be used on its own in patients from 16 years of age 
with newly diagnosed epilepsy, to treat partial-onset seizures (fits) with or without secondary 
generalisation. This is a type of epilepsy where too much electrical activity in one side of the brain 
causes symptoms such as sudden, jerky movements of one part of the body, distorted hearing, sense 
of smell or vision, numbness, or a sudden sense of fear. Secondary generalisation occurs when the 
overactivity later reaches the whole brain. 
Levetiracetam Sun can also be used as an add-on to other anti-epileptic medicines to treat: 
• 
partial-onset seizures with or without generalisation in patients from four years of age; 
•  myoclonic seizures (short, shock-like jerks of a muscle or group of muscles) in patients from 12 
years of age with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy; 
• 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, including loss of consciousness) in patients 
from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the type of epilepsy that is thought to 
have a genetic cause). 
Levetiracetam Sun is used as an alternative for patients when oral treatment is temporarily not 
feasible.  
Levetiracetam Sun contains the active substance levetiracetam and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Levetiracetam Sun contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Keppra. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Levetiracetam Sun used? 
Levetiracetam Sun is given by infusion (drip into a vein) and it can only be obtained with a 
prescription.  
The starting dose in patients over 12 years weighing more than 50 kg is 500 mg twice a day. The daily 
dose can be increased up to 1,500 mg twice a day. For patients aged between 4 years and 17 years 
weighing less than 50 kg, the dose depends on body weight. 
The use of Levetiracetam Sun infusion should be temporary. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Levetiracetam Sun, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Levetiracetam Sun work? 
The active substance in Levetiracetam Sun, levetiracetam, is an epilepsy medicine. Epilepsy is caused 
by excessive electrical activity in the brain. The exact way in which levetiracetam works is still unclear 
but it attaches to a protein called synaptic vesicle protein 2A, which is involved in the release of 
chemical messengers from nerve cells. This helps Levetiracetam Sun to stabilise electrical activity in 
the brain and prevent seizures. 
How has Levetiracetam Sun been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on levetiracetam. Studies on the benefits and 
risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been carried out with the reference 
medicine, Keppra, and do not need to be repeated for Levetiracetam Sun.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Levetiracetam Sun. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Levetiracetam Sun is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Levetiracetam Sun is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Levetiracetam Sun? 
Because Levetiracetam Sun is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Levetiracetam Sun authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Levetiracetam 
Sun has been shown to be comparable to Keppra. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Keppra, the benefits of Levetiracetam Sun outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Levetiracetam Sun? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Levetiracetam Sun have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Levetiracetam Sun are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Levetiracetam Sun are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Levetiracetam Sun 
Levetiracetam Sun received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 December 2011.  
Further information on Levetiracetam Sun can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicine/human/EPAR/levetiracetam-sun.  
Levetiracetam Sun (levetiracetam)  
EMA/857470/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2021.  
Levetiracetam Sun (levetiracetam)  
EMA/857470/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
