London, 21 July 2011 
EMA767403/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Levetiracetam Accord 
International non proprietary name: levetiracetam  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002290 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
......................................... 5 
.................................................................................. 5 
...................................................... 6 
Scientific discussion
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.2.1 
2.2.2 
2.2.3 
2.2.4 
2.2.5 
2.2.6 
2.3 
2.3.1 
2.3.2 
2.4 
2.4.1 
2.4.2 
2.4.3 
2.4.4 
2.4.5 
2.4.6 
2.4.7 
2.5 
2.6 
Non-Clinical aspects
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
Recommendations for future quality development
Introduction
Quality aspects
Introduction
Active  Substance
Finished Medicinal Product
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects
............................................................................... 7 
..................................................................................................... 7 
................................................................................................. 8 
.................................................................................................. 8 
........................................................................................... 8 
............................................................................... 9 
......................................... 11 
.................... 11 
............................................. 11 
........................................................................................ 11 
................................................................................................ 11 
...................................................... 12 
............................................................................................... 12 
................................................................................................ 12 
......................................................................................... 13 
...................................................................................... 16 
............................................................................................ 16 
............................................................................ 16 
........................................................................ 16 
....................................................................... 17 
.......................................................................................... 17 
............................................................................................ 17 
Clinical Aspects
Introduction
Pharmacokinetics
Pharmacodynamics
Additional data
Post marketing experience
Discussion on Clinical aspects
Conclusions on clinical aspects
Introduction
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Pharmacovigilance
User consultation
3 
4 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 18 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 19 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 2/20 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
Alu 
ANOVA  
ASMF 
AUC 0-t   
Aluminium 
Analysis of variance 
Active substance master file 
Areas under the concentration-time curve from 0 to last 
measurable concentration and  
AUC0-inf 
Area extrapolated to infinity 
BE 
BMI 
CHMP 
CI 
C max  
ECG 
EEA 
Bio-equivalence 
Body Mass Index 
Committee for Human Medicinal products 
Confidence interval 
Peak plasma concentration 
Electrocardiogram 
European Economic Area 
EMA or EMEA 
European Medicines Agency 
EPAR 
ERA 
EU 
EWP 
GCP 
GMP 
HPLC 
ICH 
INN 
IR 
LLOQ 
MS 
N 
European Public Assessment report 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
European Union 
Efficacy Working Party 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
International Nonproprietary Name 
Infrared 
Lower limit of quantification 
Mass spectrometry  
Number (of objects) 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 3/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NRG  
Ph.Eur.  
PK 
PVC 
QWP  
RH 
SD 
SmPC   
T/R ratio 
T1/2  
TSE/BSE  
Tmax  
ULOQ 
UV 
UV-VIS  
XRD 
Name Review group 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetics 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Quality Working Party 
Relative humidity 
Standard deviation 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Test to Reference ratio 
Half-life 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy/Bovine spongiform 
encephalopathy 
Time to Cmax  
Upper limit of quantification  
Ultra-violet 
Ultra-violet and visual light 
X-ray diffraction 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 4/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Accord  Healthcare  Limited  submitted  on  4  October  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Levetiracetam  Accord,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004  –  ‘Generic  of  a  Centrally 
authorised  medicinal  product’..  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the 
EMA/CHMP during its meeting on 15 – 18 February 2010. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Union  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
“Levetiracetam is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  in  adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
 
in  the  treatment  of  primary  generalised  tonic-clonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy.” 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data  and  a 
bioequivalence  study  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Keppra  instead  of  non-clinical  and  clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg 
film-coated tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/001-026 and EU/1/00/146/028-029 
■ Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg 
film-coated tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 5/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/001-026 and EU/1/00/146/028-029 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29-09-2000 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/022 
  Bioavailability study number: 094-07 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Pieter Neels 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 October 2010.  
The procedure started on 17 November 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 4 February 2011.   
  During  the  meeting  on  14  to  17  March  2011,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on 18 March 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 2011. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  1 July 2011.  
  During the meeting on 18 to 21 July 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Levetiracetam Accord on 21 July 2011. 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 6/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Levetiracetam Accord is a generic medicinal product containing levetiracetam as active substance. Four 
strengths  have  been  developed;  250  mg,  500  mg,  750  mg  and  1000  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The 
reference medicinal product Keppra has been centrally authorized on 29 September 2000 and exists as 
film-coated tablets of 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg and as oral solution (100 mg/ml) and as 
concentrate for solution for infusion (100 mg/ml).  
Levetiracetam is a chemical entity related to piracetam, a nootropic drug. Initial research was directed 
primarily  towards  indications  where  piracetam  and  piracetam-like  compounds  had  shown  to  be  of 
potential benefit (cognition, anxiety disorders). When the particular antiepileptic profile of the drug was 
recognised, its development was oriented towards epilepsy as a new indication in 1991. 
The precise mechanism of action by which levetiracetam confers seizure protection is unknown, but it 
appears to be unrelated to the mechanisms identified for current antiepileptic drugs.  
Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of epilepsy.  
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  levetiracetam  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  well-controlled  studies.  A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference product Keppra.  
According  to  the  legislation  the  applicant  shall  not  be  required  to  provide  the  results  of  pre-clinical 
tests  and  clinical  trials  if  he  can  demonstrate  that  the  medicinal  product  is  a  generic  of  a  reference 
product, which is authorised for 6/10 years in a EU member state or in the Community. Bioequivalence 
to  the  reference  product  Keppra  was  demonstrated  by  a  one  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  under 
fasting conditions for the 1000 mg tablet. The study was performed in healthy volunteers.   
The  indication  proposed  for  Levetiracetam  Accord  is  identical  to  the  indication  of  the  reference 
medicinal product.  
The therapeutic indication of Levetiracetam Accord is: 
Levetiracetam  is  indicated  as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
 
 
Levetiracetam Accord is presented in seven pack sizes; 10, 20, 30, 50, 60, 100, and 200 film-coated 
tablets for each strength; 250 mg, 500 mg, 750  mg and 1000 mg. At the time of the CHMP opinion, 
the 10 tablets pack size does not exist for the 250 mg and 750 mg strength of the reference product. 
Nevertheless, the proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use.  
The applicant applied for a combined printed package leaflet. During its plenary meeting in November 
2010, the Name Review group (NRG) agreed to that request. 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 7/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
Levetiracetam  Accord 
film-coated  tablets  containing  the  active  substance 
levetiracetam.  Four  strengths  have  been  developed:  250  mg,  500  mg,  750  mg  and  1000  mg.  Other 
ingredients are defined in the SmPC, section 6.1. The different strengths  can be  distinguished by the 
tablet colour and debossing. The tablets are packed in PVC-aluminium blisters. 
is  presented  as 
Levetiracetam  is  an  established  active  substance  of  chemical  origin  and  is  described  in  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia.  The  ASMF  procedure  is  used  and  declarations  from  the  Qualified  Person  have  been 
provided  to  confirm  the  active  substance  is  manufactured  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP).  
2.2.2  Active  Substance 
This  medicinal  product  contains  as  active  substance  levetiracetam  INN,  chemical  name  (2S)-2-(2-
Oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)butanamide.  The  molecular 
is  C8H 14N2O2  Mol.Wt.  170.21  g/mol. 
Levetiracetam  appears  as  a  white  or  almost  white  powder  and  is  very  soluble  in  water,  soluble  in 
acetonitrile and practically insoluble in hexane.  
formula 
Levetiracetam is not hygroscopic. It exhibits isomerism due to the presence  of one chiral center, and 
does not present polymorphism.  
Manufacture 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  the  active  substance  used  for  Levetiracetam  Accord  is  supplied  by 
one active substance manufacturer. Because no Ph.Eur. certificate of suitability has been issued for the 
active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier, detailed information about the manufacturing 
process, control of starting materials, reagents and solvents, control of critical steps and intermediates 
and process development and process validation of the active substance has been supplied in the form 
of  an  active  substance  master  file  (ASMF).  The  manufacturing  process  is  adequately  described. 
Adequate  in  process  controls  are  in  place  and  appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the 
starting  materials,  solvents  and  reagents.  All  relevant  impurities,  degradation  products  and  residual 
solvents  have  been  appropriately  characterized.  The  applicant  confirmed  the  structure  of  the 
levetiracetam  by  1H  NMR,  13C  NMR  and  MS.  The  molecular  weight  was  determined  by  elemental 
analysis. The consistency of crystalline form of levetiracetam is checked by XRD analysis. Statements 
from the Qualified Persons of the finished product manufacturers confirming that the manufacturing of 
the active substance is performed in compliance with current EU GMP or ICH Q7A were provided.  
Specification 
There is a Ph.Eur. monograph for levetiracetam and hence the active substance is tested according to 
the Ph.Eur monograph, complemented with in-house tests and specifications defined by the applicant. 
The  active  substance  specifications  include  tests  as:  appearance,  solubility,  identification  (IR,  optical 
rotation,  enantiomeric  purity),  appearance  of  solution,  water,  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals, 
enantiomeric purity (HPLC), related substances and assay (HPLC), residual solvents, triethylamine and 
particle size. 
The specifications and tests proposed by the applicant are compliant with the relevant ICH guidelines 
and  Ph.Eur.  In-house  methods  have  been  adequately  validated.  The  specifications  are  adequate  to 
control the quality of the active substance. The impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern 
from the point of view of safety.  
Batch analysis data (certificates of analysis) have been provided on at least two production batches of 
levetiracetam  manufactured  by  the  proposed  supplier.  All  batches  were  in  compliance  with  the 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 8/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
predefined  active  substance  specifications  and  confirm  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  active 
substance manufacture. 
Stability 
The  active  substance  levetiracetam  is  packaged  in  packaging  materials  that  comply  with  Directive 
2002/72/EC  and  Ph.Eur.  and  is  safe  for  use  in  contact  with  food  stuffs  and  pharmaceuticals.  The 
container closure system is described in sufficient detail and the packaging materials are acceptable. 
Stability studies on the active substance have been performed at long term (30±2°C/65±5% RH) and 
accelerated (40±2°C/75±5% RH) conditions on three production scale batches as per ICH Guidelines. 
Up  to  3  years  of  long  term  stability  data,  and  up  to  6  months  of  accelerated  stability  data  has  been 
provided,  confirming  the  stability  of  the  active  substance.  Up  to  5  years  long  term  stability  data  is 
available  for  several  smaller  batches.  All  batches  have  been  tested  for  conformance  with  the 
specifications using stability  indicating analytical methods. In all cases the batch analysis data met the 
predefined specifications and no significant trends were observed. The packaging used in stability trials 
is  representative  for  the  one  proposed  for  storage  and  distribution.  Every  year  one  production  batch 
will be put under long-term stability program. 
Forced degradation studies have been performed. Samples were exposed to NaOH, HCl and H2O2 light. 
From this study, it can be concluded that degradation takes place, leading to an increased amount of 
impurities. However, no degradation was observed during photolytic treatment (24 hours exposure to 
direct sun light).  
The  stability  data  provided  support  the  proposed  retest  period  in  the  proposed  packaging  and  under 
the proposed storage conditions.  
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  applicant’s  objective  was  to  develop  a  generic  equivalent  to  the  European  reference  product 
Keppra film-coated tablets containing 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg levetiracetam. The aim 
was  to  develop  generic  film-coated  tablets  which  are  bioequivalent  with  the  reference  product  and 
demonstrate to be robust and stable, having a dissolution profile matching with the reference product.  
Levetiracetam  Accord  film-coated  tablets  contain  partially  the  same  excipients  as  the  reference 
medicinal  product  Keppra.  A  compatibility  study  demonstrated  that  the  chosen  excipients  are 
compatible with the active substance. The core of the Keppra tablet is made of croscarmellose sodium, 
macrogol  6000,  silica  colloidal  anhydrous  and  magnesium  stearate.  The  core  of  the  Levetiracetam 
Accord  tablet  contains  povidone  K-30  instead  of  macrogol  6000.  Like  the  reference  product,  the 
Levetiracetam Accord tablets are film-coated, but the composition of the coating is not always exactly 
the  same  as  for  Keppra.  All  excipients  used  in  the  tablet  core  comply  with  the  Ph.Eur.  and  are 
commonly used in this type of formulation. The excipients used in the film-coating, and which are not 
Ph.Eur  grade,  are  of  adequate  quality.  The  generic  formulation  is  not  considered  to  be  significantly 
different from the originator’s formulation.  
During  the  development,  the  applicant  investigated  the  reference  product  Keppra  for  chemical 
characteristics  i.e.  assay,  related  substances  and  dissolution  profile.  The  product  development  work 
was  initiated  with  the  1000  mg  strength  and  the  lower  strengths  were  developed  to  be  dose 
proportional. The development aimed at achieving satisfactory physical tablet parameters like hardness, 
friability and disintegration time after film-coating. 
Comparative multimedia dissolution profiles between test and reference product are presented for the 
4  strengths:  the  dissolution  profiles  of  the  test  and  reference  product  are  comparable  in  all  tested 
media  (purified  water,  0.1  N  HCl,  pH  4.5  acetate  buffer  and  pH  6.8  phosphate  buffer).  It  can  be 
concluded that the Levetiracetam Accord and Keppra film-coated tablets have equivalent release of the 
active substance.  
Levetiracetam Accord film-coated tablets were developed in four different strengths, i.e. 250 mg, 500 
mg,  750  mg  and  1000  mg.  The  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  with  the  1000  mg  tablet.  The 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 9/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant  fulfilled  the  requirements  of  the  Guideline  on  the  investigation  of  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 1) and extrapolated the results of the bioequivalence study performed 
on the 1000 mg strength to three lower strengths; 250 mg, 500 mg and 1000 mg. Appropriate in vitro 
dissolution data confirmed the adequacy of waiving additional in vivo bioequivalence testing. 
Adventitious agents 
A  TSE  declaration  was  submitted  to  confirm  that  magnesium  stearate  is  of  vegetable  origin.  The 
excipients used do not contain and are not derived from any category A or B as defined in the Note for 
Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human 
and  Veterinary  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA/410/01  Rev.  2).  The  TSE/BSE  free  certification  from  the 
supplier of drug substances and all the excipients is provided. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a standard process for film-coated tablets. All critical process parameters 
have  been  identified  and  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process  controls.  The  test  methods  and 
acceptance  criteria  are  adequately  chosen  to  ensure  that  the  drug  product  will  comply  with  the 
specification limits. A detailed manufacturing description and flow scheme have been provided.  
Process  validation  has  been  carried  out  on  three  consecutive  commercial  scale  batches  of  each 
strength.  The  results  obtained  indicate  that  the  manufacturing  process  for  the  levetiracetam  film-
coated  tablets  is  capable  of  consistently  producing  tablets  that  meet  the  quality  and  release 
specifications as detailed in the finished product specifications 
Product Specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  tests  for  description,  average  tablet  weight, 
identification  (HPLC,  IR,  TiO 2),  uniformity  of  dosage  units,  dissolution  (HPLC),  assay,  related 
substances  and  degradation  products  (HPLC),  microbiological  tests  and  subdivision  of  tablets.  The 
finished product specifications are standard for film-coated tablets. The proposed test procedures and 
acceptance  criteria  comply  with  the  ICH  guidelines  and  the  general  requirements  of  the  Ph.Eur.  All 
tests  included  in  the  specification  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated.  Appropriate  data 
have  been  presented  to  justify  the  release  specifications  for  each  quality  characteristic  that  is 
controlled. Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from 
the point of view of safety.  
Batch  analysis  data  (certificates  of  analysis)  are  provided  for  three  commercial  scale  batches  of  each 
strength, produced with active substance from the proposed supplier. The batches were manufactured 
according  to  the  proposed  manufacturing  process  and  packed  in  the  packaging  material  as  proposed 
for  the  market.  Batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the  predefined  specifications  and  confirm 
consistency & uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process is under control.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  under  long  term  (25±2°C/60±5%RH)  and  accelerated 
(40±2°C/75±5% RH) conditions, on three commercial scale batches of each strength according to the 
ICH requirements. Up to 36 months long term and up to 6 months accelerated stability data have been 
provided.  
The stability samples have been tested for description, related substances, assay, dissolution, microbial 
contamination  and  breakability.  The  specifications  and  test  methods  used  were  identical  to  those  for 
batch release. The methods used for assay and related substances were proven as stability indicating. 
The  stability  batches  have  been  manufactured  at  the  proposed  site  of  finished  product  manufacture, 
according  to the  proposed  process  and  using  the  active  substance  obtained  from  the  proposed  active 
substance manufacturer. Stability tests have been carried out in the packaging proposed for marketing. 
During  accelerated  and  long  term  stability  studies,  all  the  tested  parameters  were  within  shelf  life 
acceptance criteria and no significant trend was observed. 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 10/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  to  the  above,  a  long  term  bulk  stability  study  was  performed  on  two  commercial  scale 
batches  for  each  strength.  The  same  parameters  as  above  were  tested  and  all  were  within  shelf  life 
acceptance criteria and no significant trend was observed. 
Furthermore,  a  forced  degradation  study  was  carried  out  by  water,  acid  and  base  hydrolysis,  by 
oxidative  degradation,  thermal  degradation  and  UV  light  degradation  to  proof  the  stability  indicating 
capacity of the test methods. 
Finally,  a  photostability  study  was  carried  out  as  per  ICH  guidelines  on  a  1000  mg  tablet  batch.  The 
tablets  were  either  packed  in  PVC/Alu  blister  (immediate  pack)  or  in  PVC/Alu  blister  into  carton 
(marketing pack). The samples were tested after total exposure to UV and visible light and the results 
indicate that the product is photostable in the proposed pack. 
As part of the stability commitment, the applicant committed that at least one batch of Levetiracetam 
Accord film-coated tablets will be placed on stability annually. 
In  conclusion,  the  stability  results  presented  were  satisfactory and  support  the  proposed  shelf life for 
the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SmPC.  
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Levetiracetam Accord 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg film-coated tablets is a generic product 
for Keppra film-coated tablets, containing very similar excipients to Keppra.  
The quality of the active substance is adequately controlled and all excipients comply with the Ph.Eur.  
or  meet  adequate  specifications.  The  finished  product  manufacturing  process  shows  to  be  capable  of 
consistently producing tablets that meet the finished product specifications and appropriate packaging 
is used to ensure the product remains stable within the agreed shelf-life.  
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  medicinal  product 
has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
The quality of this medicinal product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on TSE safety.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues which could have an impact 
on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. 
2.2.6  Recommendations for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A  non-clinical  overview  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  has  been  provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need  to  generate  additional  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data.  The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 11/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted.  This  was  justified  by  the  applicant  as  the 
introduction of  Levetiracetam  Accord  is  considered  unlikely  to  result  in  any significant increase  in  the 
combined sales volumes for all levetiracetam containing products and the exposure of the environment 
to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. The CHMP agreed 
with this justification.  
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  film-coated  tablets  containing  levetiracetam.  To  support  the  marketing 
authorisation  application  the  applicant  conducted  one  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  under  fasting 
conditions with the 1000 mg dosage strength.  This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The  applicant  provided  a  clinical  overview  outlining  the  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  as 
well as efficacy and safety of levetiracetam film-coated tablets based on published literature; this was 
considered acceptable. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No  formal  scientific  advice  by  the  CHMP  was  given  for  this  medicinal  product.  For  the  clinical 
assessment  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1)  in  its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  clinical  trial  conducted  outside  the 
community was carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Lambda Therapeutic Research Ltd. has been inspected by WHO and national authorities over the period 
between 2004 and 2009 and was found compliant with ICH GCP requirements. 
Exemption  
Four different strengths of levetiracetam tablets (250, 500, 750 and 1000 mg) have been developed. 
All  four  strengths  are  scale-up/scale  down  formulations  with  ratio  of  active  substance  to  excipients 
remaining the same for all strengths.   
The application of the four dosage strengths is based on the bioequivalence study with Levetiracetam 
1000 mg film-coated tablets, Accord Healthcare Ltd.  
This is considered acceptable, i.e. the bioequivalence can be established with only the 1000 mg dosage 
strength  as  all  conditions  specified  in  section  4.1.6  of  the  Note  for  guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioequivalence are fulfilled: 
a) The products Levetiracetam Accord 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg & 1000 mg are manufactured by the 
same manufacturing process and manufacturing site;  
b) The qualitative composition of all the four strengths is the same; 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 12/20 
 
 
 
 
c) The formulation of all the four strengths is dose proportional;  
d)  In-vitro  dissolution  profiles  are  comparable  between  the  strength  used  in  BE  study  and  additional 
strengths at the three pHs (1.0, 4.5 and 6.8). Release of more than 85% after 15 minutes; 
e) Linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic range1.  
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  application,  the  applicant  has  submitted  one  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  under 
fasting conditions conducted in 2007 (study n°094-07). 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
The  study  was  an  open-label,  balanced,  randomised,  two-treatment,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-
way  cross-over,  single  oral  dose,  comparative  oral  BE  study  of  Levetiracetam  Accord  1000  mg  film-
coated tablets in comparison with Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets in healthy adult human subjects 
aged between 18-55 years under fasting conditions.  
Subjects  were  administered  a  single  dose  of  either  the  test  or  reference  study  medication,  as  a  1  x 
1000 mg tablet with 240 ml of  water. Single dose of either of the investigational medicinal products 
was administered orally to each subject (except for the discontinued subjects) in each period. A wash-
out  period  of  five  days  was  maintained  between  the  successive  dosing  days.  Equal  allocation  of 
treatment sequence was carried out as per the randomisation schedule. 
The sampling schedule was planned to provide a reliable estimate of the extent of absorption. 24 blood 
samples were collected from each subject during each period to analyze the pharmacokinetic profile of 
the test and of the reference drug.  
A  total  of  1355  blood  samples  were  collected  during  the  study.  23  blood  samples  from  each  subject 
were  collected  during  each  period.  The  samples  were  collected  prior  to  drug  administration  and  at 
0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1,25 1.50,  1.75, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 4.50, 5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 
12.00, 16.00, 24.00, 36.00 and 48.00 hours following the drug administration in each period.   
Test and reference products  
Levetiracetam  Accord  1  x  1000  mg  tablet  manufactured  by  Intas  Pharma  Ltd.,  Matoda,  India  (Batch 
n°H2694, expiry date: March 2009, batch size: 110 000 tablets) was compared to Keppra 1 x 1000 mg 
tablet  manufactured  by  UCB  Pharma  S.A.,  Belgium  (Batch  n°29258/1,  expiry  date:  October  2009). 
Keppra 1000 mg tablets are registered via centralised procedure (EU/1/00/146). 
The Certificates of analysis (test and reference products) complied with the acceptance specifications. 
The assayed content of the batch used as test product did not differ more than 5 % from that of the 
batch  used  as  reference  product  (101.9%  and  99.7%  for  Levetiracetam  Accord  and  Keppra, 
respectively).   
1 Patsalos Philip N. Clinical Pharmacokinetics of Levetiracetam. Clin Pharmacokinet 2004; 43 (11): 707-724.  
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 13/20 
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
Population studied   
The sample size was determined based on an intra-subject variability of approximately 16% (based on 
in-house  estimates),  a  T/R  ratio  of  90-110%,  a  significance  level  of  5%,  a  power  of  >  80%  and 
bioequivalence  limits  of  80-125%.  Based  on  the  above  estimates,  a  sample  size  of  30  subjects  was 
considered to be sufficient to establish bioequivalence with adequate power.   
Healthy  male  volunteers,  aged  between  18-55  years,  with  BMI  between  18.5-24.9  kg/m2,  having  no 
significant  diseases  or  clinically  significant  abnormal  laboratory  values  during  screening,  medical 
history,  clinical  examination,  chest  X-ray  or  ECG  were  enrolled  in  the  study.  A  total  of  32  subjects 
including two additional subjects were checked in for the trial. Two additional subjects were checked in 
for  the  trial  in  order  to  account  for  any  dropouts  prior  to  dosing  in  period  I.  As  per  the  protocol,  30 
subjects were dosed in period I of the trial. One subject discontinued from the trial on his own accord 
prior to dosing in period I and was replaced by one of the two additional subjects. Two other subjects 
discontinued  from  the  trial  on  their  own  accord.  27  subjects  completed  the  clinical  phase  of  the  trial 
successfully. The plasma samples of these 27 subjects who completed the clinical phase of the trial and 
the  plasma  samples  of  one  subject,  who  was  withdrawn  from  the  trial  on  medical  grounds,  were 
analysed as per the requirement of the protocol.  
Analytical methods   
The plasma concentrations of levetiracetam in the study samples were quantified by a validated HPLC 
method.  Concerning  validation  of  the  bioanalytical  method,    information  on  linearity,  accuracy  and 
precision,  recovery,  robustness,  selectivity,  dilution  integrity,  matrix  effect,  short  and  long  term 
stability  was  provided  in  the  dossier.  The  CHMP  considered  that  these  characteristics  were  described 
correctly and within the acceptance specifications as applicable. The analytical method used was shown 
to  be  sensitive,  accurate  and  selective  for  the  plasma  level  determination  of  levetiracetam  in  the 
concentration range of 1.006-40.001 µg/ml. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 1.006 µg/ml 
of plasma. Concentrations below the lower limit of quantification were considered non-quantifiable.  
The  validation  report  provided  results  of  short-  and  long-term  (storing  for  489  days  in  the  freezer 
maintained  at  -22  ±  5°C  and  at  -65±  5°C)  stability  data.  The  study  sample  storage  period  from 
collection until the completion of analysis was 26 days). Considering the long-term stability data, the 
maximal sample storage period was covered. 
Dilution  integrity  for  levetiracetam  was  evaluated  by  preparing  samples  with  3-4  times  the 
concentrations  of  the  highest  standard.  A  sample  of  levetiracetam  having  concentration  of  128.035 
µg/ml was prepared in plasma and this was diluted to 1/5 and 1/10 of the original concentration. The 
percent  accuracy  of  the  dilution  integrity  samples  was  within  the  acceptance  criteria  of  85-115%  of 
nominal.  The  CHMP  considered  that  dilution  integrity  was  correctly  evaluated  with  an  analyte 
concentration well above the upper limit of quantification (ULOQ). 
The  chromatographic  system  was  tested  in  order  to  evaluate  the  possibility  of  carry-over.  The  carry-
over experiment was performed and no carry-over was observed at the retention time and transition of 
levetiracetam and zonisamide.  
A  total  of  1312  samples  were  analyzed  during  the  study.  A  total  of  20  re-analyses  of  individual 
analyses  were  carried  out  in  duplicate  in  the  study  for  the  following  reasons:  13  samples  were 
reanalyzed  due  to  concentrations  above  the  highest  standard,  six  samples  were  reanalyzed  due  to 
elimination  of  low  calibration  curve  standard  and  one  sample  was  reanalyzed  due  to  significant 
variation  in  response  of  the  internal  standard.  The  criteria  for  rejection  of  individual  samples  for 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 14/20 
 
 
 
analytical reasons were considered acceptable, in accordance with the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1.) 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  from  the  drug-concentration-time  profile  by  non-
compartmental  model  using  WinNonlin  Professional  Software-Version  5.0.1  (Pharsight  Corporation, 
USA) for levetiracetam.  
The following standard PK parameters were calculated: peak plasma concentration (Cmax), time to Cmax 
(Tmax), areas under the concentration-time curve from 0 to last measurable concentration (AUC0-t) and 
area extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-inf). 
Statistical methods   
Descriptive statistics was computed and reported for all pharmacokinetic parameters of levetiracetam. 
ANOVA,  two  one-sided  tests  for  bioequivalence,  power  and  ratio  analysis  for  un-transformed  and  ln-
transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters  Cmax,  AUC0-t  and  AUC0-inf  were  computed  for  Levetiracetam 
using PROC MIXED of SAS Release 9.1.3. (SAS Institute Inc., USA). 
ANOVA model included sequence, formulation and period as fixed effects and subject (sequence) as a 
random effect. An F-test was performed to determine the statistical significance of the effects involved 
in the model at a significance level of 5% (alpha=0.05).  
Formulation,  period,  and  sequence  effects  for  ln-transformed  data  were  found  to  be  statistically 
insignificant.  
The  90%  parametric  confidence  intervals  were  calculated  for  the  un-transformed  and  ln-transformed 
pharmacokinetic parameters, Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf of levetiracetam. 
Intra-subject  variability  and  power  were  calculated  for  un-transformed  and  ln-transformed  PK 
parameters.  
Bioequivalence  of  Test  Product-B  vs.  Reference  Product-A  was  concluded,  if  the  90%  confidence 
interval  fell  within  the  acceptance  range  of  80-125%  for  ln-transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
Cmax and AUC0-t for levetiracetam.  
Results 
The results of the study are presented in table below. 
Table 1.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  (non-transformed  values;  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD,  ratio  (90% 
CI)) N=27 
Treatment 
AUC 0-t 
xg/ml/h 
AUC 0-∞ 
xg/ml/h 
Cmax 
xg/ml 
tmax 
h** 
T1/2 
h 
Test 
320.92 ± 53.09 
342.21 ± 49.40 
33.48  ±  6.42
0.75 (0.5-2.5)  7.41 ± 0.88 
Reference 
328.59 ± 57.02 
346.57 ± 56.32 
36.92  ±  7.89  0.5 (0.5-2.0) 
7.55 ± 0.89 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 15/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ratio (90%CI)* 
98 (95–101) 
99 (97–101)  
91 (84–99) 
CV (%) 
6.4 
5.1 
17.8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
AUC 0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC 0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
C max   maximum plasma concentration  
T max  
T 1/2  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values, ** Median (min,max) values for Tmax 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  around  the  geometric  means  ratio  T/R  for  levetiracetam  were  in  the 
acceptance range of 80-125% for the primary parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax.  
Therefore, the bioequivalence under fasting conditions between Levetiracetam Accord 1000 mg tablets 
and Keppra 1000 mg tablets can be considered as demonstrated. 
Safety data 
All subjects except for those who discontinued were exposed to 1000 mg of levetiracetam once in each 
period as per the randomisation schedule with a wash-out period of five days between the successive 
dosing days. A total of nine adverse events were reported during the conduct of the trial. One adverse 
event occurred prior to dosing in Period I, two adverse events occurred during Period I, four adverse 
events  occurred  during  wash-out  of  period  I  and  two  adverse  events  occurred  in  Period  II.  All  the 
adverse events were mild in nature, except for one, which was moderate in nature. All adverse events 
were resolved. No deaths or serious adverse events were reported during the conduct of the trial.  
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  presented  and  no  such  studies  are  required  for  this 
application. 
2.4.4  Additional data 
Not applicable. 
2.4.5  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.6  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
To support this application the applicant submitted one bioequivalence study with a randomised, two-
treatment,  two-period,  two-sequence,  single  oral  dose,  crossover  design  comparing  Levetiracetam 
Accord 1000 mg film-coated tablets with Keppra 1000 mg film-coated tablets in healthy adult human 
subjects under fasting conditions. 
The  bioequivalence  study  was  conducted  according  to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioequivalence,  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1.  The  study  design,  sample  size,  and  statistical 
methods are appropriate.  The 90% confidence intervals of the ratios of geometric means are well in 
the  acceptance  range  of  80-125%  for  the  primary  parameters  AUC0-t,  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  for 
levetiracetam.    Bioequivalence  can  be  concluded  between  Levetiracetam  Accord  1000  mg  tablets  and 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 16/20 
 
 
 
 
 
Keppra 1000 mg tablets with respect to rate and extent of absorption. The extrapolation to the other 
dosage strengths is acceptable.  
A single dose bioequivalence study is considered sufficient since the application concerns an immediate 
release  formulation.    Steady  state  studies  are  not  indicated  as  no  accumulation  is  expected,  and 
bioavailability is not affected by repeated doses.  
There  were  no  deaths  or  serious  adverse  events  reported  during  the  conduct  of  the  trial.  All  adverse 
events,  except  for  one  which  was  moderate,  were  mild  in  nature  and  resolved.  The  safety  of 
levetiracetam  is  well  documented  and  both  test  and  reference  products  are  expected  to  have  a 
comparable safety profile.  
2.4.7  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Levetiracetam  Accord  is  considered  bioequivalent  with 
Keppra. 
The  results  of  study  BE  study  n°094-07  with  1000  mg  formulation  can  be  extrapolated  to  other 
strengths  250,  500,  750  mg,  in  accordance  with  conditions  in  the  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application is 
based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk 
minimisation activities have been identified. 
PSUR 
The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 30 November 2011. 
The PSUR of the reference medicinal product is on a yearly cycle. The PSUR submission schedule 
should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. Additionally, 6-monthly specific safety 
reports for children below 4 years of age in between the yearly PSURs have to be submitted, until 
otherwise decided by the CHMP.  
2.6  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 17/20 
 
 
 
 
 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of levetiracetam film-coated tablets. The reference product 
Keppra  is  indicated  as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Keppra is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
- in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, children 
and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years 
of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
The indication of Levetiracetam Accord film-coated tablets is identical to the indication of Keppra film-
coated tablets. 
From a quality perspective, Levetiracetam Accord 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg film-coated 
tablets  contain  very  similar  excipients  to  Keppra.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  is  adequately 
controlled  and  all  excipients  comply  with  the  Ph.Eur.  or  meet  adequate  specifications.  The  finished 
product  manufacturing  process  shows  to  be  capable  of  consistently  producing  tablets  that  meet  the 
finished product specifications and appropriate packaging is used to ensure the product remains stable 
within the agreed shelf-life.  
No non-clinical studies have been provided for this generic application but an adequate summary of the 
available non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
From  a  clinical  perspective,  this  application  does  not  contain  new  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and 
pharmacodynamics or efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on 
these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
A  bioequivalence  study  with  an  open-label,  balanced,  randomised,  two-treatment,  two-period,  two-
sequence, single oral dose, crossover design in healthy adult human subjects under fasting conditions 
constitutes  the  basis  for  this  application.  The  study  design  was  considered  adequate  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice 
of  dose,  sampling  points,  overall  sampling  time  as  well  as  the  wash-out  period  was  adequate.  The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The  test  formulation  of  Levetiracetam  Accord  1000  mg  film-coated  tablets  met  the  protocol-defined 
criteria  for  bioequivalence  when  compared  with  the  Keppra  1000  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The  point 
estimates  and  their  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  parameters  AUC0-t,,  AUC 0-,  and  C max  were  all 
contained  within  the  protocol-defined  acceptance  range  of  80.00  to  125.00%  after  single  dose 
administration. Test and reference formulations can be considered as bioequivalent with respect to rate 
and extent of absorption. 
A  single  dose  bioequivalence  study  was  considered  sufficient  since  the  application  concerns  an 
immediate release formulation.  Steady state studies are not indicated as no accumulation is expected, 
and bioavailability is not affected by repeated doses.  
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 18/20 
 
 
 
 
The overall benefit-risk assessment is considered to be positive, since no new indication or population 
is claimed and reference is made to the innovator product for the benefits and risks of levetiracetam. 
Levetiracetam  is  considered  a  safe  and  effective  antiepileptic  drug  with  well  established  use  for  the 
treatment  of  various  forms  of  epilepsy,  this  being  supported  by  experience  with  marketed 
levetiracetam in a large number of patients. Thus, the CHMP considered there is sufficient support for 
concluding on a benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. The information and warnings contained in 
the product information on the possible adverse effects of levetiracetam are adequate to minimise risk 
in  special  patient  groups  and  to  ensure  the  safe  administration  of  levetiracetam.  Clinical  evidence 
supports  the  use  of  levetiracetam  in  the  treatment  of  different  types  of  seizures  in  patients  with 
epilepsy, as listed in the SmPC.  
4  Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Levetiracetam Accord in the following indications: 
“Levetiracetam is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  in  adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
 
in  the  treatment  of  primary  generalised  tonic-clonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy.” 
is  favourable  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  subject  to  the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 19/20 
 
 
 
 
 
PSUR cycle 
The  PSUR  cycle  for  the  product  will  follow  PSURs  submission  schedule  for  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Levetiracetam Accord 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/510861/2011 
Page 20/20 
 
 
 
