SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Levemir. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1 
Introduction 
Insulin detemir, the active ingredient in Levemir, is an insulin analogue with a prolonged duration of 
action,  and  is  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology  using  a  genetically  modified  strain  of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In order to obtain a long-acting insulin product, the amino acid threonine in 
position B30 of the human insulin molecule has been omitted and myristic fatty acid has been attached 
to the ε-amino group of amino acid lysine B29. 
The  goal  of  insulin  treatment  is  to  mimic  the  physiologic  pattern  of  insulin  secretion,  which  under 
normal conditions consist of a basal secretion and meal related short peaks. The most commonly used 
insulin regimen is the so-called basal-bolus regimen in which basal insulin requirements are provided 
by  one  or  two  injections  of  intermediate-  or  long-acting  insulin  and  mealtime  requirements  are 
provided  by  meal  related  injections  of  short  acting  soluble  human  insulin/insulin  analogues.  It  is 
generally accepted that the basal-bolus regimen offers the best glycaemic control, reducing the risk for 
complications resulting from diabetes such as retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy. 
Levemir is indicated for use in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, used as basal insulin in 
combination with pre-meal bolus injections with short-acting insulin. Levemir should be administered 
subcutaneously once or twice daily and should be adjusted individually, depending on patients’ needs. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Composition 
The finished product is a solution for subcutaneous injection containing 100 U/ml (2400 nmol) insulin 
detemir. The excipients are mannitol, phenol, metacresol, zinc acetate, disodium phosphate dihydrate, 
sodium  chloride,  hydrochloric  acid,  sodium  hydroxide  and  water  for  injections.  The  pH  is  7.4.  The 
product does not contain ingredients of animal or human origin. 
The  presentations  are  Levemir  Penfill,  Levemir  FlexPen  and  Levemir  Innolet,  containing  1,  5  or  10 
cartridges of 3 ml. The container is made of glass (type I) with a bromobutyl rubber closure shaped as 
a plunger and closed with a bromobutyl/polyisoprene rubber closure. 
Drug substance 
Insulin detemir (molecular mass 5916.9 Da) appears as a white to whitish crystalline powder, which is 
soluble in water. The chemical name of insulin detemir is LysB29 (Nε- tetradecanoyl)des(B30) insulin 
human.  Insulin  detemir  is  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology  in  yeast  (Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae)  as  the  host  organism.  The  manufacturing  process  for  insulin  detemir  is  identical  to  the 
applicant's licensed insulins until the purification step. 
In  insulin detemir the amino acid threonine in position  B30 of the human insulin molecule  has  been 
omitted and myristic fatty acid has been attached to the ε-amino group of amino acid lysine B29 by an 
acylation reaction. 
The  purpose  of  the  molecular  changes  in  insulin  detemir  is  to  achieve  a  high  affinity  for  human 
albumin  as  a  way  of  protracting  insulin’s  biological  effect  thereby  obtaining  a  long  acting  soluble 
insulin product. The biological activity can be determined in-vitro by measuring the insulin detemir-
dose-dependent take-up of 3H-glucose by murine adipocytes. 
Development genetics and cell bank system 
Insulin  detemir  is  produced  using  a  genetically  modified  strain  of  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae.  The 
plasmid is constructed based on the yeast 2µ plasmid. The applicant has presented the complete DNA 
sequence  of  the  plasmid.  The  sequencing  presented  is  assembled  from  published  sequences  and  in-
house  sequence  determinations  as  relevant.  The  gene  has  also  been  fully  characterised  from  isolated 
1/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plasmids  from  long-term  production  scale  fermentation  and  cell  bank  (Original  Mother  Culture 
(OMC)). 
The stability of the production strain was characterised by the sequencing of the insulin precursor gene 
of isolated plasmids from the long-term production scale fermentation (end of production) and the cell 
bank (Original Mother Culture (OMC)). Furthermore, plasmid stability is monitored as an in-process 
control  during  fermentation.  Segregational  stability  is  also  routinely  monitored  by  the  in-process 
controls for insulin precursor positive phenotype in samples from production fermentations. 
The cell bank system consists of Original Mother Culture (OMC), New Mother Culture (NMC), MCB 
and WCB. 
Production and purification 
The  manufacturing  process  and  the  different  intermediates  of  insulin  detemir  in  the  process  are 
summarised  below.  The  initial  stages  of  production,  i.e.  the  fermentation  and  recovery  steps,  are 
common to both the currently licensed (unmodified) human insulins and insulin detemir. 
The  batch  numbering  system  is  described  in  detail  for  the  fermentation,  the  recovery  and  the 
purification/modification  stages.  The  insulin  precursor  is  produced  and  drawn  continuously.  In  the 
recovery stage, the continuous process changes into a batch process. 
Fermentation  and  harvesting.  Agar  medium  is  inoculated  with  yeast  cells  from  a  WCB  vial. 
Subsequently, the yeast is transferred to the seed fermenter. When vigorous growth has developed, this 
culture is transferred aseptically to the main fermenter. The insulin precursor is concentrated by cation 
exchange  chromatography  followed  by  2  crystallisation  steps.  The  crystallised  product  is  stored  at  -
18°C until further processing. 
Downstream  modification  and  purification.  The  insulin  human  precursor  (Insulin B1-B29-Ala-Ala-
Lys-Insulin A1-A21) is passed through a reactor with immobilised enzyme.  
This is followed by chromatographicsteps to reduce product related impurities. 
The myristoyl group (CH3(CH2)12CO-) is introduced by acylation onto the ε-amino group on the side chain 
of lysine in position B29 of the DesB30-insulin whereby insulin detemir is formed. 
The acylation is followed by chromatographic steps and precipitation. 
Finally  the  active  substance  is  crystallised  and  dried.  The  manufacturing  and  purification  process  has 
been  sufficiently  validated.  Adequate  in-process  controls  are  in  place  to  monitor  manufacturing 
consistency  and  quality  of  the  product.  Column  performance  (purification  capacity,  separation,  carry-
over  of  proteins  and  viruses)  is  adequately  monitored  according  to  determined  quality  criteria  with 
adequate alert limits. 
Manufacturing process development 
During  early  development  insulin  detemir  was  produced  from  a  dedicated  insulin  detemir  precursor. 
The  insulin  detemir  precursor  was  expressed  and  secreted  from  yeast  strain  during  the  fermentation 
process, as a single chained structure with disulphide bridges. This process was used for the production 
of the active substance for early toxicity studies and early Phase I and II clinical trials. 
As  drug  development  progressed  a  new  and  more  specific  acylation  method  was  developed. 
Consequently, a production strategy was adopted, in which the insulin human precursor could be used 
as the starting material. 
Insulin B1-B29-Ala-Ala-Lys-Insulin A1-A21 
This  process  was  used  for  the  production  of  the  active  substance  for  pre-clinical  (long-term  toxicity 
and reproduction studies), Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials and is the intended production 
process.  
2/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The comparison of active substance has confirmed that the structural and physico-chemical properties 
of active substance from the two processes are identical. 
Characterisation and specifications of the active substance 
The structure of insulin detemir has been elucidated through different analyses. One primary reference 
batch has been fully structurally and physico-chemically characterised. A secondary reference material 
as a working standard has also been produced. The content of insulin detemir in active substance and 
finished  product  is  measured  by  RP-HPLC.  The  biological  activity  of  insulin  detemir  is  determined 
using an in vitro cell based effector assay known as the Free Fat Cell assay (FFC). The samples are 
measured against an insulin detemir reference material.  
Two product-related substances have been identified in the insulin detemir active substance: the A21-
desamido  form  and  the  B3-desamido  form.  The  biological  activities  of  these  substances  have  been 
determined, and as product related substances they are included in the determination of assay value by 
HPLC. 
The  process-related  impurities  originate  from  the  host  organism  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae  during 
fermentation  and  from  the  chemical  modification  steps.  The  testing  of  a  number  of  impurities  is 
discontinued  based  on  a  sufficiently  large  number  of  tested  batches,  which  is  considered acceptable. 
Adequate  documentation  has  been  presented  to  demonstrate  the  removal  of  the  process-related 
impurities. 
Insulin  detemir  product-related  impurities  are  generated  as  by-products  in  the  fermentation  of  the 
insulin human precursor by yeast and in the chemical modification steps.  
Taken together, the impurities are either controlled in process testing or by specification testing of the 
active substance in an adequate manner. Alternatively adequate justification is provided. Consistency 
of impurity levels between pilot scale and production scale has been demonstrated. 
In general, the specifications adequately control the quality of the active substance and are based on 
release  test  data  from  20  pilot  scale  batches  and  4  production  scale  batches  as  well  as  stability  data 
from 3 batches followed for 24 months. 
All methods for release testing of insulin detemir active substance according to the specification given 
above have been established in the relevant quality control (QC) laboratories and validated according 
to ICH guidelines. 
Stability of the active ingredient 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  at  long-term  conditions  and  at  accelerated  conditions  on  three 
pilot-scale and first three commercial-scale batches. The stability study on the first three commercial-
scale batches is furthermore followed at 25°C. 
Presently 24 months data for three pilot scale batches and 3 months data for the first three production 
scale batches are available. All results from the stability study were within the proposed specification 
during  24  months  of  storage.  The  stability studies on  the  pilot batches and the  first three production 
batches are on-going to 60 months.  
Stress  testing  and  photostability  testing  has  been  performed.  Photostability  studies  revealed  that  the 
degradation of insulin detemir increases when exposed to light. Therefore, the active substance should 
be protected from light. 
Based on the results from the reported studies, a shelf life of 24 months is proposed for insulin detemir 
active substance stored at low temperature, protected from light.  
Other ingredients 
Mannitol  is  used  to  modify  tonicity,  sodium  chloride  as  a  chemical  stabilizer,  disodium  phosphate 
dihydrate  as  a  pH  buffering  agent,  zinc  (as  zinc  acetate)  as  a  physical  stabilizer  and  phenol  and 
metacresol as preservatives  
The  excipients  used  all  comply  with  Ph.Eur,  except  for  metacresol  which  complies  with  USP  and  a 
Novo Nordisk monograph.  
3/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
Product development and finished product 
Three formulations of finished product were used in clinical trials. Early clinical trials - Phase I and 
Phase II- were carried out with formulation A. Formulation B was used in later Phase I and Phase II 
trials, as well as early phase III trials. Formulation C was used in late Phase I and Phase III trials and is 
the formulation intended for marketing. 
The  concentration  of  active  substance  was  increased  from  600  nmol/ml  (formulation  A)  to  1200 
nmol/ml (formulation B) and finally 2400 nmol/ml (formulation C) as clinical trials in human subjects 
with  diabetes  revealed  a  higher  molar  requirement  of  insulin  detemir  compared  to  human  insulin  to 
obtain the same glucose lowering effect.  
All cartridge components (glass, plunger and stopper) meet the Ph.Eur. requirements. Severe long-term 
stability/compatibility  studies  show  compatibility  of  primary  container  closure  components  with  the 
insulin  detemir  product.  An  analytical  study  and  a  toxicity  study  did  not  give  concern  regarding  the 
safety of the level of leachables. Furthermore, the primary container closure system is similar to other 
insulin human products. 
The function and the dose accuracy of Levemir FlexPen and Levemir InnoLet have been tested with 
three different doses of insulin detemir 100 U/ml. The two devices fulfilled the dose accuracy 
tolerance limits defined in ISO 11608. 
The facilities for production/packaging and quality control of the finished product are all located in 
Denmark. The manufacturing of the finished product is performed in accordance with cGMP and all 
equipment in contact with the filtered (0.22 µm) solution is sterilised by autoclave or dry heat 
steriliser. Furthermore, cartridges, caps and pistons are sterilised by validated processes. 
Insulin detemir 100 U/ml is manufactured by mixing two aqueous solutions: solution (I) is a solution 
with  neutral  pH  containing  all  excipients  except  zinc.  Solution  (II)  is  a  weak  alkaline  solution 
containing insulin detemir and zinc acetate. 
This bulk solution is then filtered (0.22 µm) into a stainless steel filling tank. Finally, the formulated 
bulk  is  filled  into  the  final  container  in  a class A environment. The process validation included four 
consecutive batches. The manufacturing process together with IPC has been adequately described and 
validation  data  are  presented.  The  results  of  the  specification  analyses  show  that  the  manufacturing 
process used is capable of consistently producing Levemir 100 U/ml batches in production scale of the 
required quality. 
Specifications of the finished product 
Three  major  degradation  products  have  been  identified  as  product  related  substances.  Of  these  only, 
B3-desamido  insulin  detemir  is  formed  in  significant  amounts  during  storage  at  recommended 
conditions (0.9% after 18 months at 2-8°C). 
TSE and viral safety 
Three  components  in  the  storage  medium  for  the  WCB  are  from  bovine  origin,  i.e.  peptone,  beef 
extract  and  pepticase.  Peptone  is  also  used  in  the  propagation  of  the  MCB.  For  the  beef  extract  and 
peptone, EDQM Certificates of suitability are presented. The pepticase has been produced from bovine 
milk sourced from USA, Australia or New Zealand, fit for human consumption. In the production of 
pepticase, two secondary raw materials of animal origin are used; these are bovine derived lactose and 
a material of porcine origin. 
Two additional raw materials of bovine origin, amicase and lactose are used in the manufacture of the 
enzyme  Achromobacter  lyticus  protease  (ALP).  Both  are  produced  from  bovine  milk  from  healthy 
animals and are considered acceptable. 
Validation studies on virus removal/inactivation have not been performed on the basis that viruses are 
unable to replicate in the yeast cell line. Furthermore, the production processes for all materials contain 
steps  that  are  considered  virus  inactivating  (high  temperature  treatment  (all  materials)  to  high  pH 
treatment (peptone)). 
4/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
Stability of the Product 
The stability programme for the finished product involved a total of 6 studies; 18 months stability data 
at long-term conditions (5°C ± 3°C), twelve months data from accelerated conditions (25°C±2°C) and 
three  months  at  severe  conditions  (37°C  ±  2°C)  have  been  submitted.  The  stability  studies  on  the 
batches stored at 5°C are currently on-going. 
Only minor changes are observed at 5°C, e.g. very small decrease in drug content and a slight or no 
increase  in  degradation  products  and  high  molecular  weight  proteins  (HMWP).  However,  data  from 
elevated temperatures 25°C and 37°C show greater decrease in assay with corresponding increases in 
related impurities.   
The proposed shelf life of 24 months at 2-8°C is considered to be acceptable, as 18 months data from 
three pilot scale batches are available. 
An in-use stability study has been performed on two pilot scale batches at 30°C.   Based on the results 
of the study, an in-use period of 42 days at temperatures not above 30°C is acceptable. 
Photo  stability  testing  has  been  conducted  on  all  applied  products.  Results  show  that  the  product  is 
light sensitive. However, the product is adequately protected in the marketing pack or when assembled 
in InnoLet® or FlexPen®. 
Three production scale batches have been produced and a commitment is given that these batches will 
be included in stability studies 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general,  the  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation  are 
satisfactorily addressed. The development of the product went through some process changes. During 
early development insulin detemir was produced from a dedicated insulin detemir precursor; as drug 
development  progressed  a  new  and  more  specific  acylation  method  was  developed.  Consequently,  a 
production  strategy was adopted, in which the insulin human precursor could be used as the starting 
material. The comparison of active substance from both processes has confirmed that the structural and 
physico-chemical properties of active substance from the two processes are similar. 
The  concerns  identified  during  the  procedure  have  been  addressed  by  clarification  and/or 
commitments. The proposed use of alternative carbon sources (glucose / sucrose) for fermentation for 
production  of  the  bulk  substance  has  been  further  documented  during  the  procedure  with  pilot  scale 
data  that  indicate  that  the  product  quality  is  not  influenced.  The  applicant  also  implemented  quality 
criteria  with  adequate  alert  limits  to  monitor  column  performance  (purification  capacity,  separation, 
carry-over of proteins and viruses) during re-use. Another concern was to implement a justified limit 
for summation of storage times of intermediates and bulk substance; based on stability studies, this has 
been  set  to  8.5  years.  Initially,  both  the  release  and  end-of-shelf-life  specifications  for  drug  product 
were also considered to be too wide without justification. Specification limits have been tightened or 
will be re-evaluated based on future batch analysis results, as appropriate. 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  safety  program  was  designed  to  compare  the  pharmacodynamic  and  toxicological 
properties  of  insulin  detemir  to  soluble  human  insulin  or,  where  appropriate,  to  Neutral  Protamine 
Hagedorn  (NPH)  human  insulin.  In  addition  to  other  applicable  guidelines,  the  ICH  guideline  on 
"Preclinical  Safety  Evaluation of  Biotechnology-Derived  Pharmaceuticals" and the CPMP "Points  to 
Consider  Document  on  the  Non-Clinical  Assessment  of  the  Carcinogenic  Potential  of  Insulin 
Analogues" were taken into account. 
All pivotal non-clinical safety studies were GLP-compliant. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro and in vivo primary pharmacodynamic studies  
5/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Primary pharmacodynamics included in-vitro tests for insulin and IGF-I (insulin-like growth factor I) 
receptor binding, tyrosine kinase stimulation, fat cell lipogenesis and hypoglycaemic activity in non-
diabetic  and  diabetic  animal  models.  Contrary  to  other  insulin  analogues,  insulin  detemir  was 
consistently less potent than human insulin in all in-vitro assays. Depending on the assay, the potency 
was 2- to 10-fold lower. In vivo, it was equipotent in dogs and pigs, 6-fold less potent in rats and > 15 
times  less  potent  in  mice  and  rabbits,  the  species  traditionally  used  to  determine  the  biological 
potencies of insulins. In clinical studies, the molar potency of insulin detemir was approximately 1/4 of 
that of human insulin, which is within the range observed in vitro. As 1 unit of human insulin equals 6 
nmol,  the  applicant  has  defined  1  unit  of  insulin  detemir  as  24  nmol  or  0.142  mg  of  the  salt-free, 
anhydrous protein (MW = 5916.9). The lower potency of insulin detemir relative to human insulin is 
attributed  to  the  myristic  acid  moiety  being  sufficiently  close  to  the  receptor  recognition  site  to 
interfere  with  insulin  receptor  binding.  As  the  binding  site  on  the  insulin  receptor  is  not  identical 
across species, the degree of interference may vary according to species. Thus, in-vitro binding studies 
using  human,  rat,  pig  and  dog  insulin  receptors  showed  that  insulin  detemir  had  a  relatively  lower 
affinity  to  human  and  rat  than  to  pig  and  dog  insulin  receptors.  Another  factor  contributing  to  the 
observed  species  differences  in  potency  in  vivo  is  inter-species  variations  in  the  binding  of  insulin 
detemir  to  albumin  and,  consequently, in the volume of distribution  and clearance relative  to human 
insulin. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The pharmacodynamic interactions of insulins are well known and therefore were not investigated. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Whereas  other  insulin analogues  do not have secondary pharmacodynamic effects, insulin detemir is 
chemically  modified  through  the  covalent  binding  of  myristic  acid  to  the  ε-amino  group  of  the  C-
terminal lysine in the B-chain (B29). To investigate whether this chemical modification could lead to 
unexpected  effects,  a  battery  of  screening  tests  comprising  64  different  receptors  and  subtypes  has 
been performed. Insulin detemir had no functional activity in any of these tests. 
In  safety  pharmacology  tests,  insulin  detemir  caused  slight  CNS  depression,  slight  increases  or 
decreases  in  blood  pressure  and  a  transitory  decrease  in  urine  specific  gravity  that  likely  were  the 
result of treatment-induced hypoglycaemia. 
A hERG (human ether-a-go-go-related gene) ionic current assay and several in-vivo ECG assessments 
in anaesthetised and conscious animals found no signal for potential risk of QT prolongation or other 
cardiac effects in humans. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Insulin detemir was generally well absorbed after s.c. injection, with an overall bioavailability of 38-
60%  in  all  species  investigated.  The  elimination  half-life  was  consistently  longer  after  s.c.  than  i.v. 
administration,  confirming  the  sustained-release  nature  of  the  solution  when  injected  s.c.  A  low 
distribution  volume  ranging  from  0.05-0.25  l/kg  indicated  that  distribution  is  limited  to  the 
extracellular space.. In rodents and in subchronic dog studies, females tended to show higher Cmax and 
AUC  values  and  exhibited  more  pronounced  accumulation.  Similar  gender  differences  were  not 
encountered  in  humans.  Antibody  formation  in  chronically  exposed  animals  was  too  low  to  have  an 
impact on kinetics. Contrary to human insulin, insulin detemir is highly bound to serum albumin. 
Conventional  tissue  distribution  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  after  s.c.  administration  of  insulin 
detemir  labelled  with  125I  at  amino  acid  A14  or  with  1-14C  myristic  acid,  but  were  of  difficult 
interpretation due to the rapid metabolism of the test materials. Free iodide accounted for most of the 
radioactivity  in  the  125I-insulin  detemir  studies.  The  results of  the  studies performed with  14C-insulin 
detemir  seem  to  be  insufficient,  as  the  pattern  of  distribution  is  only  in  line  with  the  expected 
distribution of degradation products, such as fatty acids, of insulin detemir. Another study in rats with 
I125-labelled  insulin  detemir  or  human  insulin  i.v.  was  performed  with  measurements  made  at  5 
minutes,  i.e.  when  interference  from  radioactive  metabolites  and  degradation  products  would  be 
minimal.  There  was  no  difference  in  the  distribution  to  lipid-rich  tissues,  whereas  insulin  detemir 
produced higher counts in plasma and highly perfused organs and lower counts in the renal cortex, as 
expected from the high albumin binding and low clearance of the product. 
6/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
Limited  metabolism  studies  indicated  that  insulin  detemir  is  first  cleaved  at  the  disulphide  bridges 
whereupon the A- and B-chains are hydrolysed to smaller peptide fragments. These include fragments 
incorporating  the  lysine  residue  at  B29  and  all  or  part  of  the  myristic  acid  moiety  attached  to  its  ε-
amino  group.  In  liver  cells  in  vitro,  metabolic  patterns  were  qualitatively  similar  in  humans  and  the 
mouse, rat, rabbit and dog. Metabolism was less extensive in renal compared to liver cell extracts and 
produced  similar  metabolites  in  human  and  rat  materials.  Insulin  detemir  did  not  induce  cytochrome 
CYP450 in the rat. The potential for inhibition was not investigated. However, proteins are not known 
to inhibit the cytochrome system. Moreover, the maximum human plasma level of 10 nM is unlikely to 
cause any clinically relevant interactions. 
In  rats  and  dogs  administered  insulin  detemir  labelled  with  1-14C  myristic  acid,  radioactivity  was 
mainly  excreted  as  CO2  in  exhaled  air,  with  lesser  amounts  excreted  in  the  urine  and  the  faeces. 
Excretion  was  slow  and  a  substantial  fraction  was  incorporated  into  carcass  constituents.  These 
findings indicate that the fatty acid component undergoes degradation into smaller fragments that enter 
the  physiological  pool  of  short-chain  fatty  acids.  Chain  A  and  deacylated  chain  B  peptides  are 
expected to be metabolised like those of human insulin. 
Intact  insulin  detemir was excreted in  the  milk of lactating rats at concentrations  up to 15 nM or 10 
times higher than in plasma. This finding can probably be extrapolated to humans, as human insulin is 
excreted in the milk of diabetic women at a similar multiple.  
In all species investigated, 97-99% of insulin detemir was bound to plasma, lymph and subcutaneous 
albumin. This binding occurs through the fatty acid moiety and probably contributes to the protracted 
hypoglycaemic activity of the drug product. As there are 3 high-affinity fatty acid binding sites on the 
albumin  molecule  and  the  concentration  of  albumin  in  blood  is  0.6  mM,  clinically  relevant  plasma 
concentrations  of  free  fatty  acids  and  albumin-bound  drugs  are  unlikely  to  result  in  any  perceptible 
displacement  of  insulin  detemir.  This  notion  was  supported  by  several  experiments.  Thus,  when  the 
level  of  free  fatty  acids  was  increased  to  the  upper  bound  of  clinically  relevant  levels,  there  was  no 
displacement  of  insulin  detemir  in  human  plasma  in  vitro  or  changes  in  its  kinetics  in  pigs  in  vivo. 
Likewise, there was no displacement of insulin determir in in-vitro interaction studies with a range of 
albumin-bound drugs such as warfarin, phenylbutazone, diazepam, valproate, furosemide, tolbutamide, 
glibenclamide, repaglinide, nicardipine, ibuprofen and acetylsalicylic acid. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity: 
In i.v. and s.c. single-dose studies in rats and mice, high doses of insulin detemir caused death due to 
hypoglycaemia. 
Repeat dose toxicity: 
S.c.  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs.  for  up  to  6  and  12  months, 
respectively.  
Species / no./sex/group  
Sprague-Dawley rats/12 
Sprague-Dawley rats/25  
Sprague-Dawley rats/25  
Dogs/4  
Dogs/4 
Dogs/4 
Dogs/4 
Duration 
4 weeks 
13 weeks 
26 weeks 
4 weeks 
13 weeks 
26 weeks 
52 weeks 
Dose (nmol/kg/day) 
0, 30, 96, 300 
0, 30, 96, 300 
0, 30, 96, 300 
0, 3, 6, 9 
0, 1.8, 3.6, 7.2 
0, 1.8, 3.6, 7.2 
0, 1.8, 3.6, 7.2 
Signs of systemic toxicity were limited to effects on plasma glucose, small decreases in serum protein 
and albumin, urea and magnesium and minor changes in a few organ weights, notably the liver in the 
rat and adrenals in the dog. These findings, which were fully reversible, were also made in the NPH 
human insulin satellite groups and are therefore considered to be due to exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
7/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
effects.  The  only  tumours  in  the  6-month  rat  study  were  a  mammary  fibroadenoma  in  the  mid-dose 
insulin detemir group and a mammary adenocarcinoma in the NPH human insulin group. 
Antibody formation was minimal and did not compromise the interpretation of the data. 
Genotoxicity: 
Although not applicable to biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals, insulin detemir was tested for gene 
mutations in bacteria and for chromosome aberrations in vitro and in vivo. As expected, there was no 
evidence of genotoxic potential in any of these tests. 
Carcinogenicity:  
Standard carcinogenicity studies were not performed. 
Insulin  detemir  was  tested  for  in  vitro  mitogenic  potency.  Relative  to  human  insulin,  the  albumin-
corrected  mitogenic  potency  was  9%  in  CHO-K1  cells,  15%  in  human  mammary  cancer  fibroblasts 
(MCF-7 cells), 11% in a human osteosarcoma cell line and 25% in L6-hIR cells. Based on these data, 
the  mitogenic  potency  of  insulin  detemir  in  vitro  seems  to  be  reduced  relative  to  human  insulin  to 
approximately the same extent as its binding affinity for the insulin and IGF-1 receptors. 
The  effect  of  insulin  detemir  on  in-vivo  cell  proliferation  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  was  studied 
retrospectively in toxicity studies of 3 and 6 months duration. The 3-month study indicated that insulin 
detemir  produced  higher  labelling  indices  in  mammary  gland  than  the  vehicle  control,  whereas  no 
difference  between vehicle control and insulin detemir was seen in the 6-month study. Nevertheless, 
retrospective data did not compare the mitogenic potential of insulin detemir to that of human insulin. 
Therefore a prospective 4-weeks/6-month study, including human insulin as comparator, was initiated. 
Interim  results  confirmed  the  finding  in  the  3-month  retrospective  study  that  insulin  detemir  had  a 
modest  proliferative  effect  in  the  mammary  gland  of  young  female  rats.  In  addition,  insulin  detemir 
and  human  insulin  were  found  to  stimulate  rat  mammary gland cell proliferation to the same extent. 
See discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Reproduction Toxicity: 
The tests for reproductive and developmental toxicity comprised Segment I, II and III studies in rats 
and  a  Segment  II  study  in  rabbits.  These  studies  meet  the  requirements  of  the  CPMP  "Points  to 
Consider on the Need for Assessment of Reproductive Toxicity of Human Insulin Analogues". NPH 
human  insulin  was  used  as  reference  product  and  toxicokinetics  were  included  in  all  studies.  The 
reproductive and developmental toxicity of insulin detemir was similar to that of NPH human insulin.  
Local Tolerance: 
In  local  tolerance  studies  in  pigs,  the  drug  product  was  slightly  better  tolerated  than  equivalent 
volumes of NPH human insulin.  
Immunotoxicity studies: 
Antibody formation to insulin detemir was determined in most pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies. In 
addition, a formal study was conducted in rabbits to compare the immunogenicity of insulin detemir, 
NPH bovine and NPH porcine insulin. Overall, antibody formation was biologically insignificant. This 
finding, however, is not predictive of the potential for antibody formation in humans. 
8/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
Environmental Risk Assessment: 
The expected risk to the environment is negligible. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Insulin detemir binds to insulin receptors with approximately 25% affinity compared to human insulin. 
Insulin detemir activates the insulin receptor to the same extent as human insulin. 
Preclinical  data  reveal  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and toxicity to reproduction. 
In vitro, the metabolic to mitogenic potency ratio was similar for insulin detemir and human insulin. 
Retrospective and 4-weeks prospective in-vivo proliferation studies in the rat showed that insulin 
detemir had a modest proliferative effect in the mammary gland of young female animals. The 
magnitude of this effect was similar for insulin detemir and human insulin. The overall conclusion 
from these investigations is that the mitogenic potential of insulin detemir does not raise concern. 
Results at 6-month of the ongoing prospective study could be reported post-approval. 
Overall,  the  data  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  concerns  for  the  safe  use  of  insulin 
detemir 
4 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical development program, designed to provide documentation of the safety and efficacy of the 
insulin detemir in the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, consisted of pharmacology trials 
in healthy subjects or patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes, short-term trials in patients with type 1 or 2 
diabetes, 10 intermediate and long-term trials in patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes, and, ongoing trials 
in patients with type 1 or 2 diabetes. 
Although  the  majority  of  the  development  program  was  performed  before  the  CPMP  “Note  for 
guidance  on  clinical  investigations  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus” 
(EMEA/CPMP/EWP/1080/00)  was  adopted,  the  development  program  is  broadly  speaking  in 
accordance with this guideline. 
Four  short-term  therapeutic  trials  in  subjects  with  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes  (006,  1038,  1255,  and 
2006) were performed. These are considered exploratory therapeutic trials.  
The 10 intermediate and long-term trials are considered confirmatory therapeutic trials that provide the 
main evidence for the efficacy and safety of insulin detemir in the treatment of patients with diabetes 
mellitus and support the recommended treatment regimens. 
According to the applicant, data from all clinical studies, regardless of country, were conducted to the 
same standards and according to GCP and the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Clinical pharmacology 
The  application  was  supported  by  29  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  Furthermore,  three  in  vitro 
studies, dealing with plasma protein binding were submitted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic properties of insulin detemir have been studied in healthy subjects, subjects with 
type  1  diabetes,  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes,  children,  elderly,  subjects  with  renal  impairment  and 
subject with hepatic impairment, have been studied after s.c. administration. 
A  specific  enzyme  linked  immunosorbent  (ELISA)  assay  was  used  to  determine  detemir 
concentrations in plasma, serum, and interstitial fluid samples. The assay gives a measure of the total 
(free and albumin bound) insulin detemir concentration.  
9/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic profile of insulin detemir has been thoroughly evaluated. Following s.c. and i.v. 
administration  of  detemir,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  is  consistent  and  predictable  across  the  target 
population.  The  data  is  generally  consistent  with  those  obtained  in  healthy  subject  while  minor  and 
clinically insignificant differences are found compared to subjects with type 2 diabetes. 
• 
Absorption and Bioavailability 
With the exception of prolongation of time to maximum concentration at increasing doses, no evidence 
of  dose-dependent  pharmacokinetics  within  the  relevant  therapeutic  dose-range  is  apparent.  The 
applicant has provided a statistical analysis that confirms a linear dose-AUC relationship and a linear 
dose-concentration  relationship  for  insulin  detemir.  Maximum  plasma  concentrations  of  insulin 
detemir  are  reached  about  6  to  8  hours  after  s.c.  administration  with  a  slight  tendency  to  increased 
values at higher doses. Absolute bioavailability upon s.c. administration is 64, 59 and 65% following 
s.c. injection in the abdomen, thigh and deltoid, respectively. Insulin detemir AUCinf, AUC0-5h and 
Cmax  are  significantly  higher  (approximately  10%,  35%,  and  20%  respectively)  following  s.c. 
injection in the abdomen or deltoid, as compared to s.c. injection in the thigh. The observed differences 
indicate that, as with other insulin preparations, subjects treated with insulin detemir should be advised 
to rotate injection sites within the same body region. 
As with other insulin preparations, the insulin detemir AUCinf, AUC0-5h and Cmax are significantly 
increased following i.m. administration (by approximately 15%, 150%, and 72%), as compared to s.c. 
administration  in  the  thigh.  Therefore,  patients  should  follow  the  generally  recommended  injection 
techniques for avoiding i.m. administration. 
Within-subject pharmacokinetic variability was significantly less compared to NPH insulin and insulin 
glargine. 
• 
Distribution 
As  opposed  to  human  insulin,  insulin  detemir  is  highly  protein-bound  which  is  reflected  in  the 
distributional parameters of the product. The apparent volume of distribution is about 0.1 l/kg, which 
reflects  the  high  degree,  98-99%,  binding  of  the  drug  to  albumin.  Unsurprisingly,  the  concentration 
gradient  between  serum  and  interstitial  fluid  was  significantly  higher  for  insulin  detemir  than  for 
human insulin. 
• 
Metabolism and elimination 
Insulin  detemir  is  eliminated  through  extraction  and  metabolism.  Insulin  detemir  metabolism  is 
initiated with a cleavage of the disulphide bridges between the A- and the B-chain of insulin, resulting 
in inactive metabolites of detemir that are further degraded. Total splanchnic extraction was about 58% 
compared to 78% for human insulin. Total extraction by adipose tissue was 6 and 8% for detemir and 
human insulin, respectively. No net extraction by muscle tissue could be detected. As expected from 
the distributional features of insulin detemir, the clearance was found in i.v. studies to be lower (1.8 to 
2.7 ml/min/kg across trials) than for human insulin (15.8 to 19.6 ml/min/kg across trials) and the initial 
half-life was longer, 19 to 25 min for insulin detemir (across trials) versus 2.4 min for human insulin.  
The half-life after s.c. administration was considerably longer, being about 3 to 6 h in healthy subjects 
and about 5 to 7 hours in subjects with type 1 diabetes. 
• 
Special populations 
Possible differences in concentration-time curves for insulin detemir were investigated in children and 
compared with adolescents and adults with type 1 diabetes. In total, 13 prepubertal children (6 to 12 
years of age), 10 adolescents (13 to 17 years of age) and 11 adults (18 to 65 years of age) with type 1 
diabetes  received  a  single  s.c.  doses  of  12  nmol/kg  of  insulin  detemir.  There  does  not  appear  to  be 
consistent differences of Cmax, Tmax or T½ between different age groups for insulin detemir. 
There was no clinically relevant difference in pharmacokinetics of insulin detemir between elderly and 
young  subjects  or  between  subjects  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  and  healthy  subjects.  No 
clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of insulin detemir are expected between healthy 
subjects  and  subjects  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment,  based  on  the  studies  performed.  As  the 
10/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetics of insulin detemir has not been studied extensively in these populations, it is advised 
to monitor plasma glucose closely in these populations 
With  respect  to  gender  differences  and  with  respect  to  differences  between  Caucasian  and  Japanese 
subjects, no clinically significant differences of insulin detemir pharmacokinetics were found in these 
populations. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
No clinical studies on drug-drug interactions with insulin detemir have been performed. In vitro studies 
of  cytochrome  P450  inhibition  were  not  performed  as  proteins  are  generally  not  inhibitors  of  this 
system, and insulin detemir did not induce the P450 system in dogs. In vitro studies did not suggest a 
potential for interactions related to protein binding. 
A study showed that while it is possible to self-mix insulin detemir and insulin aspart before injection, 
the concentration-time curves of the individual insulin preparations are altered by mixing as compared 
with separate injection. A warning on this issue has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies: 
Three  formulations  were  used  during  clinical  development.  Bioequivalence  in  terms  of  AUC  was 
demonstrated  while  Cmax  was  statistically  significantly  about  20  %  lower  for  the  2400  nmol/ml 
formulation compared to the other formulations used. The latter is not of clinical significance as dose-
adjustments are made on an individual basis. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The single dose and steady state pharmacodynamic properties of insulin detemir have been evaluated 
in subjects with diabetes and in healthy subjects following i.v. and s.c. administration. The focus of the 
pharmacodynamic  endpoint  was  the  glucose-lowering  effect.  The  glucose-lowering  effect  was 
evaluated during euglycaemic clamps lasting up to 24 hours after insulin administration.  
Pharmacodynamic  results  seem  consistent  in  the  target  population  and  across  other  populations 
studied.  
Insulin detemir exerts its biological effect via binding to the insulin receptor. Insulin detemir binding 
to  the  insulin  and  IGF-I  receptors  is  about  20  –  30%  compared  to  that  of  human  insulin.  This 
corresponds  well  to  the  relative  potency  of  insulin  detemir  found  in  these  studies  and  in  the 
confirmatory studies.  
Insulin  detemir  pharmacodynamics,  primarily  assessed  by  euglycaemic  clamp  studies,  show  linear 
dose-response  and  concentration-response  within  the  relevant  therapeutic  dose-range.  The  applicant 
has provided a relevant statistical analysis that confirms a linear exposure (AUC detemir) – response 
(AUC  GIR  [glucose  infusion  rate])  relationship.  The  analysis  could  not  confirm  a  linear  Cmax-
GIRmax relationship. 
The  time-effect  profile  of  insulin  detemir  at  steady  state  was  comparable  to  the  profile  of  human 
insulin. There was no significant difference in the glucose-lowering effect during each 12-hour interval 
or over 24 hours as AUC GIR was comparable for insulin detemir and NPH insulin. No differences in 
fluctuation  were  found.  The  duration  of  action  at  equipotent  doses  of  detemir  and  NPH  insulin  was 
estimated  to  be  about  4  hours  longer  for  insulin  detemir.  This  result  is  based  on  an  interpolation  of 
results  from  two  different  insulin  detemir  doses,  as  a  direct  comparison  at  equipotent  doses  was  not 
performed. 
The  following figure illustrates mean glucose infusion rate (GIR) curves following five s.c. doses of 
insulin detemir ranging from 0.1 to 1.6 U/kg and one s.c. dose of NPH insulin (0.3 IU/kg), based on 
data of trial 1338 comparing the glucose-lowering effects of insulin detemir and NPH insulin during a 
24-hour  euglycaemic  clamp  in  a  cross-over  design  with  12  subjects  with  type 1  diabetes. The molar 
ratio between insulin detemir and NPH insulin was estimated to be 3.9 to 1 based on equal AUC of the 
glucose infusion rate. 
11/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Within-subject  pharmacodynamic  variability  is  significantly  less  than  for  NPH  insulin  and  insulin 
glargine. 
The  following  table  shows  within-subject  Variance  in  Pharmacodynamic  Endpoints  for  Insulin 
Detemir, NPH Insulin or Insulin Glargine in Subjects with Type 1 Diabetes in Trial 1450 (single s.c. 
dose euglycaemic clamp trial). 
Insulin 
Na 
b 
AUCGIR,0-12h
0.072 
0.352 
0.210 
18 
18 
16 
Insulin detemir 
NPH insulin 
Insulin glargine 
Dose was 0.4 (I)U/kg. 
a. N is number of subjects with 4 glucose clamps. 
b. Variance was derived from log transformed endpoints. 
b 
Within-subject Variance 
b 
GIRmax
0.053 
0.209 
0.130 
AUCGIR,0-24h
0.074 
0.466 
0.231 
t25%AUCGIR 
0.903 
2.417 
3.261 
The  metabolic  effects  as  assessed  by  studies  of  glucose  and  lipid  metabolism  are  comparable  for 
detemir and human insulin. 
Clinical efficacy  
Insulin  detemir  is  indicated  for  use  in  patients  with  diabetes  mellitus.  In  addition  to  pharmacology 
trials,  the  clinical  development  included  4  exploratory  trials,  8  confirmatory  trials  plus  2  extension 
trials and 2 ongoing trials, performed in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.  
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
Four exploratory therapeutic short-term trials were performed (006, 1038, 1255 and 2006) with early 
formulations  that  will  not  be  marketed  (600  nmol/mL  or  1200  nmol/ml).  All  of  these  trials  were 
performed to investigate the potency of insulin detemir compared to NPH insulin in small numbers of 
subjects  with  type  1  or  type  2  diabetes.  The  efficacy  results  of  these  trials  do  not  substantially 
contribute to the description of the product due to the short duration of treatment. The trials indicated 
12/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  an  increase  in  molar  dose  of  insulin  detemir  was  required  compared  to  NPH  insulin  to  obtain 
comparable glucose levels. 
Clinical  pharmacology  trial  1338  was  later  investigating  12  patients  receiving  insulin  detemir  2400 
nmol/mL 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 U/kg s.c. vs. NPH insulin 0.3 U/kg. The molar ratio between insulin 
detemir and NPH insulin was estimated to be 3.9 to 1 based on equal AUC of the glucose infusion rate 
during an isoglycemic clamp. 
Based  on  the  early  confirmatory  trials  and  trial  1338  these  results  confirming  a  molar  dose  ratio  of 
approximately  4:1  as  regards  the  glucose-lowering  effect  and  based  on  the  intention  to  provide  a 
solution  that  on  a  millilitre  to  millilitre  basis  had  a  similar  glucose  lowering effect as standard NPH 
insulin  solutions  (100  IU/ml),  a  preparation  of  2400  nmol/mL  of  insulin  detemir  was  chosen  for  the 
late phase III trials. 
Therapeutic confirmatory trials 
A total of 10 clinical trials were performed to support the efficacy and safety of insulin detemir. Eight 
studies having a treatment period of 4-6 months, and 2 extension studies with a total treatment period 
of 12 months. 
The table below gives an overview of the clinical trials, distinguishing trials performed in patients with 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes, as well as using the early 1200 nmol/ml formulation or the 2400 nmol/ml 
to-be-marketed formulation. 
13/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Trial ID  No. Subjects 
Treatment 
Exposed (IDet/NPH) 
Treatment 
Duration 
Primary 
Endpoint  
Secondary Efficacy Variables 
and Other Variables Evaluated 
Type 1 Diabetes – Early Confirmatory Therapeutic Trials using the Early 1200 nmol/mL Preparation 
 1181 
236/224 
randomised 
1:1  
 1243 
154/134 
entered extension 
extension 
of  
1181 
 1205 
301/146 
randomised 
2:1  
1316 
216/99 
entered extension 
extension 
of  
1205 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
2 x daily 
Bolus: HIS 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
2 x daily 
Bolus: HIS 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
2 x daily 
Bolus: Iasp 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
2 x daily 
Bolus: Iasp 
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months 
6 months 
Adverse event 
incidence 
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months  
6 months 
Adverse event 
incidence 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose   
Within-subject variation in FBG 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight  
Quality of Life 
HbA1c after 12 months 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose   
Hypoglycaemia  
Antibodies 
Weight 
Quality of Life 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose   
Within-subject variation in FBG 
8-h nightly plasma glucose 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
HbA1c after 12 months 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose  
Hypoglycaemia  
Weight 
Type 1 Diabetes – Late-Development Trials using the To-Be-Marketed 2400 nmol/mL Preparation 
1335 
491/256 
randomised 
2:1  
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
1 x daily 
Bolus: HIS 
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months 
1447 
271/129 
randomised 
1:1:1  
(IDet:IDet: 
NPH) 
1448 
276/132 
randomised 
1:1:1 
(IDet:IDet:NPH) 
Basal:  
IDet(morn+dinner)  
IDet (morn+bed)  
NPH(morn+bed)  
Bolus: Iasp 
Basal:  
IDet every 12 h  
IDet (morn+bed)  
NPH (morn+bed)  
Bolus: Iasp 
4 months 
HbA1c  
after 4 months 
4 months 
HbA1c  
after 4 months 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose   
Within-subject variation in FBG 
24-h continuous glucose profiles  
Hypoglycaemia 
Antibodies 
Weight 
10-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose 
Within-subject variation in FBG 
24-h continuous glucose profiles 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
10-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose  
Within-subject variation in FBG 
24-h continuous glucose profiles 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
14/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type 2 Diabetes – Early Confirmatory Therapeutic Trials using the Early 1200 nmol/mL Preparation 
1166 
221/218 
randomised 
1:1 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
2 x daily 
Bolus: None  
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose  
Within-subject variation in FBG 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
Type 2 Diabetes – Late-Development Trials using the To-Be-Marketed 2400 nmol/mL Preparation 
1336 
341/164 
randomised 
2:1  
1337 
309/158 
randomised 
2:1   
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
1 or 2 x daily 
Bolus: Iasp 
Basal:  
IDet or NPH  
1 x daily 
Bolus: None 
OADs: Metformin 
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months 
6 months 
HbA1c  
after 6 months 
9-point blood glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose  
Within-subject variation in FBG 
24-h continuous glucose profiles 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
Quality of Life 
9-point glucose profiles 
Fasting plasma glucose  
Within-subject variation in FBG 
Hypoglycaemia 
Weight 
IDet = insulin detemir; NPH = NPH insulin; HSI = human soluble insulin; IAsp = insulin aspart  
All trials were multicentre, randomised, parallel-group and open-label comparing insulin detemir with 
human NPH insulin, the standard insulin providing basal insulin supply. All trials were open-labelled, 
as the two products are easily distinguishable from each other on visual inspection – insulin detemir 
being a clear, transparent solution, and the comparator (NPH insulin) an opaque suspension. A double-
dummy technique was considered impractical and potentially hazardous, due to the risk of medication 
errors. In addition, the insoluble NPH insulin was not available in a placebo formulation. 
The basal insulin regimen was once or twice daily at bedtime or at morning and at bedtime, except for 
2  studies  where  insulin  detemir  was  given  at  morning  and  at  dinner  or  with  a  12-hour  interval.  All 
trials  in  type  1  diabetes  (1181,  1205,  1335,  1447,  1448)  and  one  trial  in  type  2  diabetes  (1336) 
employed  a  basal-bolus  regimen,  using  either  human  soluble  insulin  or  the  rapid-acting  insulin 
analogue, insulin aspart. The remaining two trials in type 2 diabetes used basal insulin as monotherapy 
(1166) and in combination with metformin (1337), respectively. 
All trials included subjects who were previously treated with insulin, except for Trial 1337, in which 
all subjects were insulin naïve at baseline. The glycaemic targets used as goals for titration of the daily 
insulin dose were the same in all trials: fasting/preprandial blood glucose between 4.0-7.0 mmol/l (72-
126 mg/dl), postprandial blood glucose less than 10.0 mmol/l (180 mg/dl) and nightly blood glucose 
between 4.0-7.0 mmol/l (72-126 mg/dl). 
In  the  long-term  extension  Trials  1243  and  1316,  subjects  continued  on  the  treatment  to  which  they 
were randomised originally, and thus the trials cannot be considered randomised during the extension 
period, due to selection bias. 
The main inclusion and exclusion criteria that were common to the trials are mentioned below. 
Inclusion criteria: duration of diabetes ≥ 12 months, age ≥ 18 years of age (for type 1 diabetes) or ≥ 35 
years of age (for type 2 diabetes), body mass index (BMI) ≤ 35.0 kg/m2, HbA1c ≤ 12.0% based on 
analysis from central laboratory and basal insulin requirement ≥ 30% of the total daily insulin dose 
Exclusion criteria: proliferative retinopathy, recurrent major hypoglycaemia, known unawareness of 
hypoglycaemia, pregnancy and severe concomitant diseases. 
15/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  objective  of  the  confirmatory  therapeutic  trials  was  to  compare  the  effect  of  insulin 
detemir  with  that  of  NPH  insulin  on  glycaemic  control  as  measured  by  non-inferiority  of  HbA1c  in 
subjects with diabetes. 
The primary efficacy endpoint for all of the confirmatory therapeutic trials was the fraction of glycated 
haemoglobin, HbA1c.  
Secondary  endpoints  for  the  assessment  of  efficacy  include:  fasting  plasma  glucose,  9-  or  10-point 
blood  glucose  profiles  (home  measurements),  24-hour  glucose  measured  using  the  MiniMed 
Continuous  Glucose  Monitoring  System,  8-hour  nightly  plasma  glucose  profiles,  and  within-subject 
variability in fasting blood glucose. Furthermore, hypoglycaemia, body weight, and insulin antibodies 
have implications for the evaluation of efficacy, and are therefore also addressed in relation to clinical 
effectiveness. 
The  statistical  analyses  of  efficacy  and  safety  in  all  confirmatory  therapeutic trials  are  based  on  the 
intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis set, defined as all randomised subjects exposed to at least one dose of 
trial  product.  In  general,  the  primary  objective  of  the  trials  is  to  demonstrate  that  the  glycaemic 
control, measured by HbA1c, achieved after treatment with insulin detemir, is at least as good as the 
glycaemic  control  achieved  after  treatment  with  NPH  insulin  (non-inferiority).  Non-inferiority  is 
claimed  if  the  upper  limit  of  the  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  difference  is  less  than  0.4%. 
Superiority is claimed if the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval for the difference is lower than 
0%.  
In Trials 1447 and 1448, in which three different treatment regimens were used, the primary objective 
was to compare the outcomes in the three treatment groups. Where no significant difference was found 
in  the  three-way  comparison,  results  for  the  two  insulin  detemir  treatment  groups  in  each  trial  have 
been pooled. 
Results 
A total of 2446 patients with diabetes mellitus were randomised and exposed to treatment with insulin 
detemir (1575 patients with type 1 diabetes and 871 patients with type 2 diabetes). As the comparator 
treatment,  1427  patients  were  randomised  and  exposed  to  NPH  insulin  (887  patients  with  type  1 
diabetes and 540 patients with type 2 diabetes). 
Overall  the  completion  rate  was  high  in  the  confirmatory  therapeutic  trials:  94%  for  both  insulin 
detemir and NPH insulin in type 1 diabetes, and 87% and 92% for insulin detemir and NPH insulin, 
respectively,  in  type  2  diabetes.  In  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes,  those  on  insulin  detemir  withdrew 
more  frequently  due  to  ineffective  therapy  (4.6%)  than  those  on  NPH  insulin  (0.7%).  The  majority 
(60%)  of  withdrawals  due  to  ineffective  therapy  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  arose  in  Trial  1166,  in 
which many subjects failed to achieve the appropriate dose during the trial. The early formulation of 
insulin  detemir  required  injection  volumes  that  were  unacceptably  large  in  order  to  achieve  the 
relatively  high  doses  needed  for  basal  insulin  treatment  in  poorly  controlled  subjects  with  type  2 
diabetes. 
Overall,  the  study  populations  in  the  confirmatory  therapeutic  trials  were  comparable  within  each 
study, without major differences between treatment groups. Subjects with type 1 diabetes had a mean 
age of approximately 40 years in all trials, ranging from 17 to 83 years. Subjects with type 2 diabetes 
were older, with a mean age of 58 years (range 34-91). Subjects with type 1 diabetes had a mean body 
weight ranging from 71 to 77 kg in the different trials. Body weight in subjects with type 2 diabetes 
was  generally  higher  (means  from  78  to  90  kg)  with  greater  variation,  as  expected  for  the  subject 
population.  In  general,  more  males  than  females  were  enrolled,  with  an  overall  distribution  of  57% 
males  and  43%  females  in  all  trials  combined.  The  overall  mean  duration  of  diabetes  was  14  years, 
with somewhat longer duration in trials in type 1 diabetes (means 15 - 17 years) than in trials in type 2 
diabetes  (means  9  -  13  years).  Mean  HbA1c  levels  at  baseline  were  around  8%  in  most  trials,  with 
slightly higher levels in Trial 1448 (type 1 diabetes) and Trials 1166 and 1337 (both type 2 diabetes), 
in which mean HbA1c was closer to 9%. 
16/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior  to  the  trial,  the  vast  majority  of  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  were  on  a  basal-bolus  insulin 
regimen, whereas less than 4% were treated with premixed insulin only. A great diversity was found 
among pretrial treatments in subjects with type 2 diabetes.  Mean daily doses of basal insulin ranged 
from  0.31  to  0.39  IU/kg  (24  to  28  IU)  in  all  but  one  trial  (Trial  1166  in  type  2  diabetes),  in  which 
considerably higher basal insulin doses were used (mean 0.54 IU/kg; 41 IU absolute). Mean basal and 
bolus  insulin  doses  (units/kg)  are  presented  for  each  trial  in  the  table  below.  All  doses  of  insulin 
detemir  are  expressed  in  the  units  of  the  to-be-marketed  preparation.  Bolus  insulin  (human  soluble 
insulin or insulin aspart) was used in 8 of the 10 trials. 
Mean Basal and Bolus Insulin Dose per kg at End of Trial (ITT) 
Trial 
IDet (U/kga or IU/kg) 
NPH(U/kga or IU/kg) 
Basal 
Bolus 
Basal 
Bolus 
Subjects with type 1 diabetes 
1181 
1243ext 
1205 
1316ext 
1335# 
1447# 
1448# 
0.29 
0.30 
0.42 
0.43 
0.27 
0.43 
0.49 
0.43 
0.43 
0.43 
0.44 
0.47 
0.39 
0.38 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes 
1166 
1336# 
1337# 
0.82
0.42
0.56
- 
- 
0.46
0.38 
0.39 
0.44 
0.46 
0.33 
0.38 
0.45 
0.78
0.39
0.45
0.36 
0.37 
0.36 
0.37 
0.44 
0.34 
0.38 
- 
- 
0.40
# Late development trials 
a  Insulin detemir doses are in units (U): 1 unit = 24 nmol;  NPH insulin doses are in units (IU): 1 unit = 6 nmol 
Results on HbA1c are shown in the tables below.  
ANOVA of HbA1c (%) at End of Trial (ITT) 
Trial 
Idet 
NPH 
N 
End 
N 
End 
Difference: 
IDet – NPH [95% CI] 
Subjects with type 1 diabetes 
1181 
1243ext 
1205 
1316ext 
1335# 
1447# 
1448# 
7.68 
210 
7.88 
139 
7.60 
280 
7.53 
210 
8.46 
464 
7.66 
256 
267 
7.76 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes 
9.36 
7.63 
8.40 
1166 
1336# 
1337# 
178 
315 
261 
# Late development trials 
206 
124 
139 
96 
236 
125 
125 
203 
155 
134 
7.59 
7.78 
7.64 
7.59 
8.58 
7.73 
7.94 
8.70 
7.48 
7.89 
0.09 [-0.05, 0.22] 
0.10 [-0.08, 0.27] 
-0.04 [-0.22, 0.13] 
-0.06 [-0.30, 0.17] 
-0.11 [-0.24, 0.02] 
-0.07 [-0.22, 0.08] 
-0.18 [-0.34, -0.02] 
0.66 [0.44, 0.98] 
0.16 [0.00, 0.31] 
0.51 [0.28, 0.74] 
17/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Mean HbA1c (%) at Baseline and End of Trial (ITT) 
Trial 
Idet 
NPH 
N 
Base 
End 
Change 
(Bas-End) 
N 
Base 
End 
Change 
(Bas-End) 
Subjects with type 1 diabetes 
1181 
1243ext 
1205 
1316ext 
1335# 
1447# 
1448# 
210 
139 
280 
210 
464 
256 
267 
7.63 
7.64 
8.18 
8.15 
8.35 
8.07 
8.64 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes 
1166 
1336# 
1337# 
178 
315 
261 
8.93 
7.87 
9.43 
# Late development trials 
7.66
7.73
7.62
7.51
8.30
7.61
7.82
9.26 
7.61 
8.41 
0.03 
0.09 
-0.55 
-0.64 
-0.06 
-0.46 
-0.82 
0.33 
-0.26 
-1.02 
7.68 
7.61 
-0.06 
206
124
139
7.67 
7.67 
8.11 
7.61 
96 
8.04 
7.47 
236
125
125
203
155
134
8.35 
8.41 
8.09 
7.70 
8.51 
7.91 
8.78 
8.53 
7.76 
7.40 
9.37 
7.87 
0.00
-0.50 
-0.56 
0.06
-0.39 
-0.60 
-0.25 
-0.36 
-1.50 
An exploratory analysis was carried out combining data from only the trials using the to-be-marketed 
insulin detemir preparation in type 1 diabetes (see table below). 
Combined ANOVA of HbA1c (%) at End of Trial in Type 1 Diabetes -  
Late Development Trials (Trials 1335, 1447, 1448) 
Insulin detemir 
NPH insulin 
Difference (IDet − NPH) 
N 
Mean (SE) 
N 
Mean (SE) 
Mean 
95% CI 
983 
8.30 (0.10) 
485 
8.41 (0.10) 
−0.11 
[−0.20; −0.01] 
Non-inferiority criterion: Upper confidence limit of difference <0.4% (absolute) 
Superiority criterion: Non-inferiority met and upper confidence limit of difference <0% (absolute) 
Mean: Least square mean, SE: Standard Error of the mean, CI: Confidence interval 
In  summary,  non-inferiority  was  demonstrated  in  all  trials  in  type  1  diabetes.  Considering  the  late 
development pivotal trials in type 1 diabetes, a reduction in HbA1c was seen in trial 1447 and 1448 in 
both Insulin detemir and NPH insulin treated patients. In trial 1335, no such a reduction was observed. 
In  this  trial  a  once  daily  basal  insulin  regimen  was  used.  In  type  2  diabetes,  non-inferiority  was 
demonstrated  in  only  one  trial  (1336).  In  trial  1337,  in  which  patients  were  treated  with  insulin  and 
metformin,  non-inferiority  was  not  proven.  In  early  development  trial  1166,  non-inferiority  was  not 
demonstrated. In this trial there were major inadequacies in dosing; this trial used one of the earlier and 
less  concentrated  preparations  (1200  nmol/ml),  and  investigators  and  subjects  were  apparently 
reluctant to titrate the doses intensively enough when faced with the large volumes and apparent high 
numbers of units for insulin detemir. 
18/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fasting plasma glucose 
In general, the results from trials in type 1 diabetes show that insulin detemir in the regimens tested 
was as effective as or better than NPH insulin in reducing fasting hyperglycaemia. 
In  type  2  diabetes,  fasting  plasma  glucose  at  the  end  of  trial  was  comparable  between  treatments  in 
Trials 1336 and 1337. In Trial 1166, the decline in FPG was smaller in the insulin detemir group than 
the NPH group, due largely to the inadequate dosing discussed previously. 
Within subject variation in fasting blood glucose 
Within-subject day-to-day variation was assessed based on self-measured fasting blood glucose toward 
the end of the 4- and 6-month trials. Fasting blood glucose measurements were taken at home the last 7 
days of the treatment period. In both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, within-subject variation, assessed as 
the standard deviation of the mean (SD), was lower in the insulin detemir treatment group in all trials 
except Trial 1166, with significant differences in five of the trials  
9- and 10-point blood glucose profiles 
Glucose profiles from the late-development confirmatory therapeutic trials 1335, (type 1 diabetes) and 
1336 (type 2 diabetes), using the to-be-marketed preparation, are presented below. 
19/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment Group  
Insulin detemir
NPH insulin
Treatment Group  
Insulin detemir
NPH insulin
Hypoglycaemia 
Hypoglycaemic episodes were classified in the trials as: 
a) Major - an episode with severe CNS symptoms consistent with hypoglycaemia in which the patient 
was unable to treat himself/herself and which had one of the following characteristics: 
• 
• 
b) Minor - an episode with symptoms consistent with hypoglycaemia with: 
Blood glucose < 2.8 mmol/L (50 mg/dL) 
Reversal of symptoms after either food intake or glucagon/iv glucose administration. 
20/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
• 
Confirmation by blood glucose measurement < 2.8 mmol/L (50 mg/dL) and which was handled 
by the patient himself/herself, or 
Any asymptomatic blood glucose measurement < 2.8 mmol/L (50 mg/dL). 
• 
c) Symptoms only - symptoms that are considered to be related to hypoglycaemia but not confirmed by 
a blood glucose measurement. 
The  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  is  addressed  in  the  context  of  clinical  efficacy,  where  relative  risk  of 
hypoglycaemia  has  been  calculated.  Supplementary  analyses  have  been  adjusted  for  differences  in 
glycaemic control (HbA1c), in order to ascertain whether the differences found in relative risk could be 
attributable to individual differences in glycaemic control. Additional analyses investigated nocturnal 
hypoglycaemic episodes, defined as episodes occurring between 23:00 and 6:00 hours. 
Major  hypoglycaemic  episodes  were  experienced  by  approximately  9%  of  patients  with  type  1 
diabetes  and  in  less  than  2%  of  the  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  during  the  treatment  period.  The 
relative  risks  of  having  a  major  hypoglycaemic  episode  were  similar  in  insulin  detemir  and  NPH 
insulin in both patient groups. 
Minor  hypoglycaemic  episodes  were  experienced  by  approximately  85%  of  patients  with  type  1 
diabetes and in approximately 21% of the patients with type 2 diabetes. 
In  summary,  data  from  individual  studies  are  not  consistent  and  the  overall  rates  of  hypoglycaemia 
with Levemir and NPH Insulin are similar. Further analyses of nocturnal hypoglycaemia did not show 
statistical differences between insulin detemir and NPH Insulin except in type 1 diabetes where there 
was a lower risk of minor nocturnal hypoglycaemia. 
Body weight 
Mean  body  weight  was  significantly  lower  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  relative  to  the  NPH  insulin 
group at the end of treatment in all trials. The difference in mean body weight changes (insulin detemir 
- NPH insulin) was between -0.61 kg to -1.58 kg in type 1 diabetes trials and -0.77 kg to -2.00 kg in 
type 2 diabetes trials. In general, subjects in the insulin detemir group maintained weight or had slight 
weight  reductions,  while  subjects  on  NPH  insulin  tended  to  increase  in  weight  during  the  trial. 
Covariate  adjustment  for  HbA1c  in  the  analysis  verified  that  the  lower  body  weight  with  insulin 
detemir was independent of individual differences in glycaemic control during treatment. 
Nightly 8-Hour plasma glucose profiles 
Nightly  8-hour  plasma  glucose  profiles  were  assessed  in  a  subset  of  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes 
(IDet,  N=88;  NPH,  N=41)  in  the  early  Trial  1205  which  was  performed  with  the  1200  nmol/ml 
preparation.    Profiles  were  based  on  hourly  measurements  taken  after  6  months  of  treatment,  while 
subjects  were  fasting  during  an  overnight  stay  at  the  investigational  site.  The  shapes  of  the  nightly 
plasma glucose profiles were considerably different, reflecting the longer duration of action of insulin 
detemir  compared  with  NPH  insulin.  9  and  10-point  self-measured  blood  glucose  profiles  showed 
lower blood glucose values with insulin detemir from 4:00 hours. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical treatment studies were performed in the paediatric population. According to the “Note for 
guidance on clinical investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of diabetes mellitus” (CPMP, 
November 2002), these trials are usually required pre-licensing, as tested insulin preparations are to be 
used in this population.  A large (N=338) multicentre therapeutic trial in children and adolescents with 
type  1  diabetes  is  currently  in  progress.  The  trial  is  a  26-week,  multinational,  multi-centre,  open-
labelled,  randomised,  parallel  efficacy  and  safety  comparison  of  insulin  detemir  and  NPH  insulin  in 
children  and  adolescents  with  type  1  diabetes  on a  basal-bolus  regimen.  The  applicant  committed  to 
supply data on clinical efficacy and safety in children and adolescents, after marketing authorisation. 
21/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  separate  studies  were  conducted  in  the  elderly  population.  The  clinical  development  programme 
included 437 elderly (≥ 65years of age) subjects (264 treated with insulin detemir and 173 with NPH 
insulin). 
Exploratory analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis). 
Continuous Glucose Monitoring System: Excursions and fluctuations 
Analyses  were  performed  to  estimate  differences  in  variation  between  the  two  treatments  using  data 
collected with the Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS). Glucose excursions were defined 
as the portion of the individual glucose profiles falling outside of the range from 4 to 10 mmol/L. Low 
excursions were calculated as the area over the glucose profile and below 4 mmol/L (AOC<4mmol/L). 
Glucose  fluctuations  were  calculated  post-hoc  as  the  total  area  between  the  glucose  profile  and  the 
subject’s  individual  mean  glucose  level.  These  analyses  express  the  overall  variability  in  serum 
glucose  levels  during  the  period.  Data  were  obtained  in  a  subset  of  subjects  in  the  late-development 
trials  1335,  1447,  and  1448  in  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes.  Combined  analyses  across  trials  in 
subjects with type 1 diabetes showed reductions in low excursions with insulin detemir, both over the 
24-hour  period  and  at  night,  and  the  analysis  of  fluctuations  showed  lower  variability  for  insulin 
detemir. 
Subpopulations: 
The  Applicant  analysed  efficacy  and  safety  in  a  large  number  of  subpopulations.  No  clinically 
meaningful differences were found. Especially, no effect of age was found with respect to efficacy or 
the risk for hypoglycaemia. Furthermore, no effect was seen of low albumin levels, defined as albumin 
<35 g/L. However, the number of patients with low albumin levels was limited (8 type 1 diabetics and 
15 type 2 diabetic patients). As a consequence, careful monitoring should be recommended in patients 
with severe hypoalbuminaemia. 
Supportive study 
Trial  1385  was  an  open-label,  randomised,  parallel  group  comparison  of  insulin  detemir  +  insulin 
aspart  versus  NPH  insulin  +  human  soluble  insulin  on  glycaemic  control  measured  by  HbA1c  in 
subjects with type 2 diabetes. In total, 449 subjects were screened, 395 subjects were randomised and 
378  subjects  completed  the  22-week  trial.  The  subjects  were  previously  insulin  treated  and  were 
randomised to either detemir + insulin aspart or NPH + human soluble insulin as basal-bolus regimen 
with basal insulin injections one or two times daily. The two groups of subjects were comparable with 
respect to age, BMI, diabetes duration and baseline HbA1c. Treatment with insulin detemir + insulin 
aspart was found non-inferior to treatment with NPH insulin + human soluble insulin: HbA1c values 
after  22  weeks  of  treatment  were  7.46  and  7.52%  respectively.  The  trial  was  a  comparison  between 
two different basal insulins and two different bolus insulin preparations, therefore, the effect of insulin 
detemir  per  se  compared  to  NPH  insulin  cannot  be  evaluated  in  this  trial  since  the  bolus  insulin 
preparations were different in the two study  groups. However,  the study 1336 has demonstrated that 
when  insulin  detemir  is  used  as  basal  insulin  in  a  basal-bolus  regimen  (in  combination  with  insulin 
aspart  as  bolus insulin)  in patients with type  2 diabetes, it  provides  glycaemic control which is non-
inferior to the glycaemic control provided by insulin NPH (in combination with insulin aspart). Thus 
even considering the limitations of study 1385, it is conceded that insulin detemir (when used as part 
of basal-bolus regimen) provides acceptable glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
For  proving  efficacy  of  insulin  detemir  a  total  of 10 confirmatory therapeutic trials were performed: 
eight 4- and 6-months randomised controlled trials and two extension trials (12 months). Five trials and 
the extension trials were performed in type 1 diabetic patients and three in type 2 diabetic patients. 
Two trials (1181, 1205) and their extension (1243, 1316) were conducted with the early 1200 nmol/ml 
preparation and three trials (1335, 1447, 1448) with the to-be-marketed preparation of 2400 nmol/ml in 
type  1  diabetic  patients.  The  duration  of  the  later  trials  was  4-6  months,  a  minimum  duration  for 
22/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrating  efficacy,  according  to  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance.  With  respect  to  the  primary 
endpoint, HbA1c after 4-6 months, insulin detemir appeared to be non-inferior to NPH insulin in type 1 
diabetic  patients.  In  one  trial  (1448)  the  criterion  for  superiority  was  met.    Considering  the  pivotal 
trials in type 1 diabetes, a reduction in HbA1c was seen in trial 1447 and 1448 in both insulin detemir 
and NPH insulin treated patients. In trial 1335, no such a reduction was observed. In this trial a once 
daily basal insulin regimen was used. 
In type 2 diabetic patients, study 1336 demonstrated that when insulin detemir is used as basal insulin 
in  a  basal-bolus  regimen  (in  combination  with  insulin aspart as bolus insulin), it  provides  glycaemic 
control, which is non-inferior to the glycaemic control provided by insulin NPH (in combination with 
insulin  aspart).  Thus  it  is  concluded  that  insulin  detemir  (when  used  as  part  of  basal-bolus  regimen) 
provides acceptable glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.  However, when used outside 
the  basal-bolus  regimen,  the  efficacy  of  insulin  detemir  in  type  2  diabetic  has  not  been  adequately 
demonstrated: study 1166 (in which insulin detemir was used as twice daily monotherapy) and study 
1337 (in which insulin was used once daily in combination with metformin) failed to demonstrate non-
inferiority to insulin NPH (used in similar regimens). Thus it is concluded that insulin detemir should 
only be used as part of a basal bolus regimen, as reflected in the summary of product characteristics: 
“Levemir  is  a  soluble  long-acting  insulin  analogue  used  as  basal  insulin  in  combination  with  meal-
related short- or rapid- acting insulin”. 
Blood  glucose  levels  showed  less  variation  in  patients  treated  with  insulin  detemir,  as  compared  to 
NPH  treated  patients.  Fasting  blood  glucose  levels  were  lower  with  insulin  detemir  than  with  NPH 
insulin. Results indicate that blood glucose levels with insulin detemir are lower at 4:00 hours and the 
early morning but this was not accompanied by an increase of hypoglycaemia. 
Overall rates of hypoglycaemia with insulin detemir and NPH insulin were similar. 
In  general,  subjects  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  maintained  weight  or  had  slight  weight  reductions, 
while subjects on NPH insulin tended to increase in weight during the trial. The possible mechanism is 
unknown even if it could be linked to minor difference in food intake. 
Efficacy  of  insulin  detemir  was  analysed  in  a  large  number  of  subpopulations.  Demographic  factors 
studied were sex, age, ethnic origin and BMI. Disease related factors included diabetes duration, lipid 
disorders, low serum albumin, high serum creatinine, high serum ALAT. Furthermore, the effects of 
concomitant treatment with drugs influencing glucose metabolism and drugs that bind to albumin were 
studied. No clinical meaningful differences in any of the subgroups were found for efficacy or safety. 
However, the number of patients with low serum albumin was small and therefore caution should be 
recommended in patients with severe hypoalbuminaemia. 
It is concluded that for type 1 diabetic patients insulin detemir is as efficacious as NPH insulin after 4-
6  months  of  treatment  when  given as basal injection  1 to 2 times daily. Long-term efficacy data are 
limited  to  the  1200  nmol/ml  preparation,  and  are  prone  to  bias  due  to  the  design  of  the  extension 
studies. For type 2 diabetic patients, insulin detemir was as good as NPH insulin if given with bolus 
injections  with  short  acting  insulin.  Combination  with  metformin  or  monotherapy  did  not  meet  the 
non-inferiority criterion. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  population  consisted  of  all  subjects  who  were  exposed  to  at  least  one  dose  of  the  trial 
medication, a total of 3159 subjects exposed to insulin detemir. Safety parameters were derived from 
clinical pharmacology trials comprising a  total  of 518 healthy subjects, and patients with type 1 and 
type  2  diabetes,  short-term  trials  (less  than  6  weeks  of  treatment)  comprising  a  total  of  195  patients 
with  type  1  and  type  2  diabetes,  intermediate  and  long-term  trials  (more  than  6  weeks  of  treatment) 
comprising a total of 2446 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In total, 388 healthy subjects, 1782 
patients with type 1 diabetes and 989 patients with type 2 diabetes comprised the safety database. The 
majority of subjects were derived from the confirmatory trials (1181, 1205, 1335, 1447, 1448, 1166, 
1336, 1337) and 1-year extension trials (1243 and 1316). 
23/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
A total 1248 subject years of exposure to insulin detemir were evaluated, 98% derived from the 
confirmatory intermediate and long-term trials. In total, 1732 subjects were exposed to insulin detemir 
for 6 months or more. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
The  frequency  of  the  most  common  adverse  events  (AEs)  in  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  in  the 
intermediate and long-term trials are summarised in the table below. 
The  most  common  reported  adverse  events  were  upper  respiratory  tract  infections,  pharyngitis  and 
headaches,  diarrhoea  and  influenza-like  symptoms  for  both  the  insulin  detemir  group  and  the  NPH 
insulin group. 
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────NPH Insulin──────────
HSI
N
IAsp
N
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
───────Insulin Detemir───────
HSI
N
IAsp
N
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
E
E
E
E
Number of Subjects Exposed
727
848
480
407
All Adverse Events
542(74.6)2103
609(71.8)2113
356(74.2)1428
290(71.3)976
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM DISORDERS
UPPER RESP TRACT INFECTION
PHARYNGITIS
CENTR & PERIPH NERVOUS SYSTEM
DISORDERS
HEADACHE
213(29.3) 310
75
58( 8.0)
184(21.7) 227
88
69( 8.1)
126(26.3) 181
37
30( 6.3)
89(21.9)105
41(10.1) 47
177(24.3) 475
168(19.8) 331
109(22.7) 345
79(19.4)157
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
The vast majority of AE’s were classified as mild in severity. The only severe AE’s reported in more 
than  1%  of  the  subjects  were  hypoglycaemia-related  events.  The  overall  AE  profile  did  not  differ 
between insulin detemir and NPH insulin, except for injection site reactions. This AE was reported in 
1.3%  of  the  subjects  treated  with  insulin  detemir  vs.  0.2%  of  the  subjects  treated  with  NPH  insulin. 
Most of these reactions were mild, a few moderate, and no severe reactions were reported. 
The frequency of the most common adverse events in subjects with type 2 diabetes in the intermediate 
and long-term trials are summarised in the table below. 
The  most  common  reported  adverse  events  were  influenza-like  symptoms,  upper  respiratory  tract 
infections, headaches and diarrhoea and for both the insulin detemir group and the NPH group. 
24/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
──────────────NPH Insulin────────────
Monotherapy
E
(%)
N
────────────Insulin Detemir──────────
Monotherapy
E
(%)
N
Metformin
N
Metformin
N
IAsp
N
IAsp
N
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
E
E
E
E
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Number of Subjects
Exposed to
221
341
309
218
164
158
All Adverse Events
158(71.5)371 213(62.5)538 214(69.3)602 164(75.2)363 103(62.8)252 102(64.6)316
BODY AS A WHOLE –
GENERAL DISORDERS
INFLUENZA-LIKE
SYMPTOMS
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
DISORDERS
UPPER RESP TRACT
INFECTION
26(11.8) 26
10( 2.9) 12
9( 2.9) 12
30(13.8) 31
4( 2.4)
5
1( 0.6)
1
24(10.9) 32
46(13.5) 59
39(12.6) 42
31(14.2) 35
16( 9.8) 17
16(10.1) 18
CENTR & PERIPH NERVOUS
SYSTEM DISORDER
HEADACHE
25(11.3) 30
31( 9.1) 47
20( 6.5) 22
24(11.0) 34
15( 9.1) 33
15( 9.5) 18
GASTRO-INTESTINAL
SYSTEM DISORDERS
DIARRHOEA
8( 3.6)
9
2( 0.6)
3
31(10.0) 37
10( 4.6) 10
8( 4.9)
8
18(11.4) 22
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
The vast majority of the AE’s were classified as mild in severity. The only severe events reported in 
more than 1% of the subjects were coughing, myocardial infarction, cardiac failure and hypoglycaemic 
episodes. The overall AE profile in type 2 diabetes was comparable between the insulin detemir group 
and the NPH group. The only AE reported as more frequent in the NPH group was gastroenteritis. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes: See clinical efficacy section 
Body weight: See clinical efficacy section 
Cardiovascular disorders: A meta-analysis addressing cardiovascular events across the insulin detemir 
trials  was  performed.  A  total  of  3066  subjects  from  the  8  confirmatory  trials  were  included  in  this 
analysis. The overall incidence of cardiovascular events was 7.1%  in all subjects treated with insulin 
detemir,  and  was  7.9%  in  NPH  insulin  treated  subjects.  Among  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes,  the 
incidence of cardiovascular adverse events was 10.7% in the insulin detemir group and was 11.3% in 
the NPH insulin group. The difference was not significant. 
Injection  site  reactions:  Injection  site  reactions  were  reported  infrequently  in  both  treatment  groups, 
although there was a slightly higher percentage of injection site reactions in the insulin detemir group 
than in the NPH insulin group (IDet: 1.7% and NPH: 0.8%) with most of the imbalance from type 1 
subjects (IDet: 20/1575, 1.3% and NPH: 2/887, 0.2%) as compared to type 2 subjects (IDet: 21/871, 
2.4%  and  NPH:  9/540,  1.7%).  The  events  were  predominantly  mild  (only  three  were  moderate)  and 
none  were  severe.  Six  subjects  withdrew  due  to  their  injection  site  reactions:  three  with  type  1  and 
three with type 2 diabetes, all were treated with insulin detemir. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The frequency of serious adverse events (SAEs) in the patients with type 1 diabetes was 5.8% in total 
and evenly distributed among the insulin detemir and NPH insulin groups. The only SAEs reported in 
more than 1% of the subjects were related to glycaemic control (hypoglycaemia). Less than 2% of the 
subjects  in  either  treatment  group  had  SAEs  considered  probably  or  possibly  related  to  the  trial 
medication. 
The  frequency  of  SAEs  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  was  6.7%  in  total  and  similarly  distributed 
across the 2 treatment groups. SAEs reported in more than 1% of the subjects were: coronary events 
(angina pectoris, myocardial infarction), neoplasms, hypoglycaemia. Only the cases of hypoglycaemia 
were considered related to the trial medication. 
25/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
In total, 13 deaths occurred during the insulin detemir development programme. Eight of these events 
involved subjects currently treated with insulin detemir, 3 deaths occurred in subjects who had ended 
insulin detemir treatment, and 2 deaths occurred in subjects currently treated with NPH insulin. Nine 
of  the  11  deaths  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  were  subjects  with  underlying  chronic  diseases  as 
cardiovascular  disease,  cerebrovascular  disease,  malignant  disease,  myeloproliferative  disorder, 
hypertension  and  dyslipidaemia.  The  deaths  were  in  these  cases  most  likely  related  to  or  directly 
caused  by  these  diseases.  In  two  cases,  sudden  deaths  in  young  individuals  were  observed  with  no 
obvious  explanation.  The  number  of  deaths  and  the  mortality  rates  are  in  accordance  with  previous 
epidemiological data in diabetes populations. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  incidence  of  adverse  events  leading  to  withdrawal  was  low  in  all  trials  during  the  clinical 
development  programme.  There  was  no  difference  in  the  reasons  for  withdrawal  between  treatment 
groups,  except  that  slightly  more  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes  treated  with  insulin  detemir  as 
monotherapy withdrew due to ineffective therapy in the intermediate and long-term trials as compared 
to the subjects treated with NPH insulin as monotherapy.  
In  the  intermediate  and  long-term  trials,  less  than  2%  of  the  subjects  with  type  1  diabetes  in  either 
treatment  group  withdrew  due  to  adverse  events  (23  subjects  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  and  five 
subjects in the NPH insulin group). For subjects with type 2 diabetes less than 4% in either treatment 
group withdrew due to adverse events (25 subjects in the insulin detemir group and seven subjects in 
the NPH insulin group).  No difference in withdrawals due to adverse events was evident between the 
insulin detemir and the NPH insulin groups, and there was no pattern in the reasons for withdrawal. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical  laboratory  values  were  measured  in  all  trials  and  included  the  following  measurements: 
haemoglobin  (hematocrit  and  erythrocytes  were  also  performed  in  one  trial),  leucocytes  (differential 
count  if  leucocytes  were  abnormal),  thrombocytes,  sodium,  potassium,  alkaline  phosphatase,  alanine 
aminotransferase  (ALAT),  lactate  dehydrogenase  (LDH),  creatinine,  total  protein,  albumin,  total 
cholesterol,  high-density  lipoprotein  (HDL),  low-density  lipoprotein  (LDL),  very  low  density 
lipoprotein (VLDL), triglycerides and free fatty acids. For one trial, measurements of gamma glutamyl 
transferase and total bilirubin were also performed.  
The incidence of potentially clinically significant laboratory values (PCS) was 0.7% in subjects with 
type  1  diabetes  and  7.6%  in  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes.  The  most  frequent  PCS value in subjects 
with type 2 diabetes was high triglyceride levels. As regards change of PCS values from baseline to 
end of treatment, a few differences between insulin detemir and NPH insulin in subjects with type 1 or 
2  diabetes  were  found.  None  of  these  small  differences  were  found  consistent  across all trial groups 
and was therefore assessed to be without clinical relevance. The incidence of PCS values did not differ 
between the treatment groups for subjects with type 1 as well as for type 2 diabetes. 
No differences in the proportion of subjects experiencing changes from normal to abnormal ECG, or 
vice  versa,  were  observed  between  insulin  detemir  and  NPH  insulin  treated  subjects  with  type  1 
diabetes or type 2 diabetes. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  experiencing  changes  from  normal  to  abnormal  funduscopy/fundus-
photography, or vice versa, was similar between insulin detemir and NPH insulin treated subjects.  
Immunological events 
An  increase  in  insulin  detemir  specific  antibodies  was  observed  after  6  months  (trial  1335)  and  12 
months  (trials  1181/1243)  of  treatment.  No  data  beyond  this  time  was  available.  This  increase  was 
however  expected  in  introducing  a  new  insulin  analogue  and  data  suggest  that  the  increase  in 
antibodies have no or very little impact on glycaemic control. Long-term (beyond 12 months) data on 
development of antibodies and their consequences for the efficacy and safety of the product should be 
submitted post-marketing. 
26/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
A  meta-analysis  addressing  cardiovascular  events  across  the  insulin  detemir  trials  was  performed.  A 
total  of  3066  subjects  from  the  8  confirmatory  trials  were  included  in  this  analysis.  The  overall 
incidence of cardiovascular events was 7.1% in all subjects treated with insulin detemir, and was 7.9% 
in NPH treated subjects. Among subjects with type 2 diabetes, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse 
events  was  10.7%  in  the  insulin  detemir  group  and  was  11.3%  in  the  NPH  insulin  group.  The 
difference was not significant. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  parameters  were  derived  from  studies  including  in  total  3159  subjects  exposed  to  insulin 
detemir: 388 healthy subjects, 1782 patients with type 1 diabetes and 989 patients with type 2 diabetes. 
A total of 1248 subject years of exposure to insulin detemir were evaluated, the vast majority (98%) 
were derived from the 10 confirmatory intermediate (4-6 months) and long-term trials (12 months). In 
total, 1732 subjects were exposed to insulin detemir for 6 months or more. 
Overall,  the  studies  showed  that  insulin  detemir  was  well  tolerated  and  that  the  safety  profile  was 
comparable  to  NPH  insulin.  There  was  no  noteworthy  difference  in  frequency  and  incidence  of 
adverse  events,  or  serious  adverse  events  with  insulin  detemir  compared  to  NPH  insulin,  except  for 
local  reactions.  The  number  of  deaths  was  higher  among  patients  currently  or  recently  treated  with 
insulin  detemir  than  NPH  insulin,  but  the  deaths  were  apparently  unlikely  to  be  connected  to  the 
treatment.  
Injection  site  reactions  were  approximately  twice  as  common  with  insulin  detemir  as  with  NPH 
insulin.  However  the  majority  of  these  reactions  were  mild,  there  were  no  severe  local  reactions 
reported. 
Overall, the frequency of major as well as minor hypoglycaemic episodes was comparable in insulin 
detemir  and  NPH  insulin  treatment  groups,  and  the  overall  risk  of  having  a  hypoglycaemic  episode 
was not different. 
An unexpected, but very consistent finding was subjects treated with insulin detemir maintained body 
weight or had slight weight reductions, while subjects treated with NPH insulin tended to gain weight 
during the trials. This phenomenon was observed in 10 of 10 trials, and remains unexplained. 
An  increase  in  insulin  detemir  specific  and  cross-reacting  antibodies  was  observed  during  insulin 
detemir treatment as expected. This increase was  not apparently linked to adverse events or allergic 
reactions  in  the  observation  period.  However,  the  number  of  patients  exposed  during  12  months  is 
limited. Post marketing monitoring and detection of any clinical impact should follow up this finding. 
5 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  safety  and  batch-to-batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that Insulin detemir binds 
to  insulin  receptors  with  approximately  25%  affinity  compared  to  human  insulin  and  activate  the 
insulin receptor to the same extent as human insulin. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional 
studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and toxicity to reproduction. 
Current data on mitogenicity does not raise particular concern but full report on the ongoing 26-week 
proliferation study should be submitted as a follow-up measure. Nevertheless, it should be noted that a 
27/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
CPMP member would have preferred the full report on the antiproliferative study in mammary glands 
in rats to be performed before the granting of an Opinion. 
Efficacy 
Levemir is a soluble long-acting insulin analogue to be used as basal insulin in combination with meal-
related short- or rapid- acting insulin. 
For  type  1  diabetic  patients  insulin  detemir  is  as  efficacious  as  NPH  insulin  after  4-6  months  of 
treatment when given as basal injection 1 to 2 times daily. Long-term efficacy data are limited to an 
early preparation (1200 nmol/ml) and are prone to bias due to the design of the extension studies. 
For type 2 diabetic patients, insulin detemir was as good as NPH insulin if given with bolus injections 
with  short  acting  insulin.  Combination  with  metformin  or  monotherapy  did  not  meet  the  non-
inferiority criterion. 
Mixing of rapid acting insulin with Levemir should be avoided because the profile of action of one or 
both component will change. 
No  clinical  meaningful  differences  in  any  of  the  sub  population  were  found  for  efficacy  or  safety. 
However, the number of patients with low serum albumin was small and therefore caution should be 
recommended in patients with severe hypoalbuminaemia. 
No  clinical  studies  were  performed  in  the  paediatric  population  but  one  trial  in  children  and 
adolescents with type 1 diabetes was currently in progress. The applicant committed to supply data on 
clinical efficacy and safety in children and adolescents, after marketing authorisation. 
Safety 
Overall, the clinical studies showed that insulin detemir was well tolerated and that the safety profile 
was comparable with NPH insulin. There was no noteworthy difference in adverse events with insulin 
detemir  compared  to  NPH  insulin,  except  for  local  reactions.  Injection  site  reactions  were 
approximately twice as common with insulin detemir but were usually mild. The frequency of major as 
well as minor hypoglycaemic episodes was comparable in insulin detemir and NPH treatment groups. 
Treatment  with  Levemir  is  not  associated  with  undesirable  weight  gain,  while  subjects  treated  with 
NPH insulin tended to gain weight during the trials. This phenomenon remains unexplained. 
An  increase  in  insulin  detemir  specific  and  cross-reacting  antibodies  was  observed  during  insulin 
detemir  treatment  as  expected.  This  increase  was  not  apparently  linked  to  adverse  events  or  allergic 
reactions in the observation period. The company will provide, in  post-marketing, long term data on 
the  development  of  insulin  detemir  antibodies  and  the  impact  of  these  antibodies  on  the  safety  and 
efficacy of insulin detemir.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Insulin detemir, the active ingredient in Levemir, is an insulin analogue with a prolonged duration of 
action based on the deletion of the amino acid threonine in position B30 of the human insulin molecule 
and addition of a myristic fatty acid to the ε-amino group of amino acid lysine B29. 
The toxicology programme revealed no special hazard for humans. Receptor affinity data and in-vitro 
mitogenicity  tests  revealed  no  evidence  of  an  increased  mitogenic  potential  compared  to  human 
insulin. A full report on the ongoing 26-week proliferation study should be submitted as a follow-up 
measure. 
Clinical data support its use as basal insulin in combination with meal-related short- or rapid- acting 
insulin, in type 1 and 2 diabetes.  
The  safety  profile  was  comparable  with  NPH  insulin.  However  injection  site  reactions  were 
approximately  twice  more  frequent  with  Insulin  detemir  but  were  usually  mild.  The  frequency  of 
hypoglycaemic  episodes  was  comparable  between  Insulin  detemir  and  NPH  treatment  groups. 
Treatment with insulin detemir was not associated with undesirable weight gain. 
28/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The  observed  increase  in  insulin  detemir  antibodies  was  not  linked  to  adverse  events  or  allergic 
reactions but long term data on the development of insulin detemir antibodies and the impact of these 
antibodies on the safety and efficacy of insulin detemir should be submitted as follow-up measure. 
Clinical  efficacy  and  safety  data  in  children  and  adolescents  were  lacking  and  will  have  to  be 
submitted in post-marketing. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  ratio  of  Levemir  in  the  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
29/29 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
