EMA/857453/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002244 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm (levetiracetam) 
An overview of Levetiracetam ratiopharm and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Levetiracetam ratiopharm and what is it used for? 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm is an epilepsy medicine. It can be used on its own in patients from 16 years 
of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy, to treat partial-onset seizures (fits) with or without secondary 
generalisation. This is a type of epilepsy where too much electrical activity in one side of the brain 
causes symptoms such as sudden, jerky movements of one part of the body, distorted hearing, sense 
of smell or vision, numbness, or a sudden sense of fear. Secondary generalisation occurs when the 
overactivity later reaches the whole brain. 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm can also be used as an add-on to other anti-epileptic medicines to treat: 
• 
partial-onset seizures with or without generalisation in patients from one month of age; 
•  myoclonic seizures (short, shock-like jerks of a muscle or group of muscles) in patients from 12 
years of age with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy; 
• 
primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, including loss of consciousness) in patients 
from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the type of epilepsy that is thought to 
have a genetic cause). 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm contains the active substance levetiracetam and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Levetiracetam ratiopharm contains the same active substance and works in the same way 
as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Keppra. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Levetiracetam ratiopharm used? 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm is available as tablets to be swallowed with liquid and an oral solution to be 
drunk. It can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The usual starting dose in patients over 12 years weighing more than 50 kg is 500 mg twice a day. The 
daily dose can be increased up to 1,500 mg twice a day. For patients aged between one month and 17 
years weighing less than 50 kg, the dose depends on body weight. For infants and children under the 
age of 6 years or weighing less than 25 kg, the oral solution is recommended. 
For more information about using Levetiracetam ratiopharm, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Levetiracetam ratiopharm work? 
The active substance in Levetiracetam ratiopharm, levetiracetam, is an epilepsy medicine. Epilepsy is 
caused by excessive electrical activity in the brain. The exact way in which levetiracetam works is still 
unclear but it attaches to a protein called synaptic vesicle protein 2A, which is involved in the release 
of chemical messengers from nerve cells. This helps Levetiracetam ratiopharm to stabilise electrical 
activity in the brain and prevent seizures. 
How has Levetiracetam ratiopharm been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on levetiracetam. Studies on the benefits and 
risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been carried out with the reference 
medicine, Keppra, and do not need to be repeated for Levetiracetam ratiopharm. 
Because Levetiracetam ratiopharm is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests 
to determine that the tablets are bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Keppra. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. The company 
provided data to show that a bioequivalence study was not needed for the oral solution as the 
composition was sufficiently similar to the reference medicine. 
What are the benefits and risks of Levetiracetam ratiopharm? 
Because Levetiracetam ratiopharm is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Levetiracetam ratiopharm authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Levetiracetam 
ratiopharm has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Keppra. Therefore, 
the Agency’s view was that, as for Keppra, the benefits of Levetiracetam ratiopharm outweigh the 
identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.   
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Levetiracetam ratiopharm have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Levetiracetam ratiopharm are continuously monitored. 
Suspected side effects reported with Levetiracetam ratiopharm are carefully evaluated and any 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Levetiracetam ratiopharm 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 August 
2011. 
Further information on Levetiracetam ratiopharm can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/levetiracetam-ratiopharm.  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm (levetiracetam)  
EMA/857453/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Information on the the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2021.  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm (levetiracetam)  
EMA/857453/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
