25 June 2015 
EMA/355581/2015 
Procedure Management and Committees Support Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Levemir  
insulin detemir 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000528/P46/051 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
Clinical study number and title ..................................................................................... 4 
Description................................................................................................................. 4 
Methods .................................................................................................................... 4 
Results .................................................................................................................... 11 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 56 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 57 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 2/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On April the 7th, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Levemir, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study NN5401-3816: A trial investigation the efficacy and safety of insulin 
degludec/insulin aspart once daily plus insulin aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir 
once or twice daily plus meal time insulin aspart in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus” is a stand alone study. The study has been submitted in parallel with the two corresponding 
Article 46 submission for NovoRapid and Ryzodeg.  
The study is part of the paediatric development programme for Ryzodeg but not for Levemir and 
Novorapid. No further regulatory consequences for the Marketing Authorisation for Levemir have been 
identified based on the data from this paediatric trial.  
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Although several marketed insulin products can be used by paediatric patients with T1DM, there is still 
a need for refinement of these products to more closely resemble the physiological action profile of 
endogenous insulin and to minimize unwanted side effects. The pathophysiology of T1DM appears to 
be comparable between adults and paediatric patients, and consequently, the potential benefits of 
IDegAsp for children and adolescents are believed to be similar to those for adults. 
Other aspects of insulin treatment such as convenience, ease of use and flexibility of dosing may also 
be important in contributing to optimising treatment, thus allowing more patients to achieve the PG 
target. In addition, the currently available premixed insulin products are not soluble, i.e. resuspension 
is needed before use. Insufficient resuspension may result in inadequate glucose control (hypo- or 
hyperglycaemia).16 Therefore, providing a soluble insulin product without the need for resuspension, 
covering both the main meal and basal insulin requirements in one injection, could improve the general 
outcome for patients using such treatment. Furthermore, treatment with IDegAsp dosed OD at any 
meal, in combination with IAsp at the remaining meals, offers the convenience of fewer injections than 
a standard basal bolus regimen. 
None of the currently available premixed insulin products have specific clinical information for use in 
children under the age of 10 years. NN5401-3816 was the first therapeutic confirmatory trial with 
IDegAsp in the paediatric population and included children and adolescents from 1 to 18 years. This 
trial was conducted in agreement with EMA (PDCO) as a binding element of the PIP12 to investigate 
the efficacy and safety of IDegAsp OD in children and adolescents with T1DM. 
Fulfilment of the binding elements in the PIP agreed upon with EMA (PDCO) is part of the EU 
requirement for marketing authorization of IDegAsp. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 3/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is among the most common chronic diseases in children and 
adolescents. The majority of all T1DM subjects are diagnosed before the age of 15 years and T1DM 
accounts for around 90% of all diabetic cases in the paediatric population. 
Long-term chronic complications of hyperglycaemia include micro- and macro-vascular complications 
such as retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy and cardiovascular disease. Although such long-term 
complications are rare in children and adolescents, poor metabolic control appears to predispose to 
development of co-morbidities later in life. Long-term hyperglycaemia due to poor control or 
inadequate insulin treatment can also be associated with weight loss, stunted growth and delayed 
puberty in paediatric subjects. 
The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial6 confirmed that intensified long-term glucose control 
reduces both the incidence and the progression of complications occurring in relation to T1DM in adults 
and adolescents ≥13 years of age. The challenge to obtain good glycaemic control in the absence of 
hypoglycaemia is bigger in a paediatric population compared to an adult population due to growth, 
more variable lifestyle, need of assistance with insulin injection, hormonal changes etc. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study number and title 
Trial ID: NN5401-3816 
A trial investigating the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/insulin aspart once daily plus insulin 
aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir once or twice daily plus meal time insulin aspart 
in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Description 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objective 
The primary objective of the trial was to confirm the efficacy of IDegAsp administered OD plus meal-
time IAsp for the remaining meals in controlling glycaemia with respect to change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment. This was done by comparing the difference in change from 
baseline in HbA1c between IDegAsp + meal-time IAsp for the remaining meals and IDet + meal-time 
IAsp to a non-inferiority limit of 0.4%, and if non-inferiority was confirmed, to a superiority limit of 
0%. 
Secondary objectives 
To compare the efficacy and safety between the two treatment groups. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 4/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comments 
The objectives are stated clearly and considered relevant. 
Study design 
Trial 3816 was a 16-week multi-national, multi-centre, open-label, two-arm, parallel group, 
randomised, treat-to-target, efficacy and safety trial in children and adolescents with T1DM between 1 
and 18 years of age. The trial was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and 
International Conference on Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice. Subjects received one of the 
following treatment regimens: 
• 
• 
IDegAsp group: IDegAsp OD with a main meal + bolus IAsp for the remaining meals 
IDet group: IDet OD or twice daily (BID) + bolus IAsp at all meals. 
Following screening, the subjects were randomised 1:1 to the treatment groups and stratified by age: 
children 1-5 years; children 6-11 years; and adolescents 12-17 years. 
At randomisation, each subject’s total daily insulin dose was to be reduced by 20%. During the trial 
treatment period, all subjects were titrated on an individual basis according to an insulin titration 
guideline protocol. The total trial duration for the individual subjects was approximately 18 weeks 
(Figure 1). The trial included a screening visit (visit 1), followed by a 16-week randomised treatment 
period and a follow-up visit (visit 19) 7-12 days after the last treatment visit (visit 18). 
The key efficacy parameters were HbA1c, FPG and SMPG profiles. The key safety parameters were 
insulin dose, AEs, incidence of hypoglycaemia, incidence of hyperglycaemia, vital signs, safety 
laboratory parameters and body weight/BMI. 
Figure 1 Trial design 
Assessor’s comments 
The design is acceptable. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 5/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population /Sample size 
The number of subjects planned for enrolment (346) and to complete the trial (310) was based on the 
sample size calculation. The number of subjects included in the trial is shown below. In accordance 
with the approved PIP; at least 80 randomised subjects must be younger than 6 years at inclusion. 
Additionally at least 30% and not more than 70% should be girls. 
Table 1 
Inclusion criteria 
Important inclusion criteria included: 
• 
Informed consent 
•  Subjects diagnosed with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
•  Age: 1 to <18 years 
•  Ongoing daily treatment with insulin (any regimen including continuous s.c. insulin infusion) for 
at least 3 months prior to visit 1 
• 
Total daily dose of insulin: ≤2 units/kg 
•  HbA1c ≤11.0% 
•  Ability and willingness to adhere to the protocol 
Exclusion criteria 
Important exclusion criteria included: 
•  Known hypoglycaemic unawareness or recurrent severe hypoglycaemic events as judged by 
the investigator 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 6/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  More than 1 episode of diabetic ketoacidosis requiring hospitalisation within the 3 months prior 
to screening 
•  Any chronic disorder or significant concomitant disease which, in the investigator’s opinion, 
might have jeopardised the subject’s safety or compliance with the protocol 
Assessor’s comments 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable. 
Treatments 
The subjects were randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups, either IDegAsp in combination 
with IAsp or IDet in combination with IAsp. Randomisation was stratified according to three age 
groups: 1-5 years; 6-11 years; and 12-17 years. Stratification was employed to ensure an 
approximately equal distribution of subjects between the treatment groups within each age group. 
Assessor’s comments 
acceptable 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint 
•  Change from baseline in HbA1c (%) after 16 weeks of treatment 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
After 16 weeks of treatment: 
•  Change from baseline in FPG 
•  Self-measured plasma glucose (SMPG) measurements (4-point profiles) obtained throughout 
the trial for dose adjustments: 
– Mean PG before meals and before bedtime 
– Within-subject variability as measured by the coefficient of variation (CV%) 
•  SMPG measurements (8-point profiles): 
– 8-point profiles 
– Mean of the 8-point profiles 
– Fluctuation in the 8-point profiles 
– Prandial PG increment from 8-point profiles 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 7/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary safety endpoints 
After 16 weeks of treatment: 
• 
Insulin doses 
•  Adverse events 
•  Hypoglycaemia 
•  Hyperglycaemia 
•  Vital signs 
• 
Laboratory assessments 
•  Body weight and body mass index (BMI) 
Assessor’s comments 
Endpoints are considered relevant. 
Statistical Methods 
Analysis sets 
The full analysis set (FAS) included all randomised subjects. In exceptional cases subjects from the 
FAS could be eliminated. In such cases the elimination was to be justified and documented. The 
statistical evaluation of the FAS followed the intention-to-treat principle and subjects contributed to the 
evaluation “as randomised”. 
The per protocol (PP) analysis set consisted of all subjects in the FAS who fulfilled the following 
criteria: 
•  Have not violated any inclusion criteria 
•  Have not fulfilled any exclusion criteria 
•  Have non-missing HbA1c at screening or randomization 
•  Have at least one non-missing HbA1c after 12 weeks of exposure 
•  Have at least 12 weeks of exposure. 
The safety analysis set (SAS) included all subjects receiving at least one dose of the trial product or its 
comparator. Subjects in the safety set contributed to the evaluation “as treated”. 
Two subjects in the FAS (1 in each group) did not receive trial product and were therefore excluded 
from the SAS. Seventeen (17) subjects in the FAS (8 in the IDegAsp group and 9 in the IDet group) 
were excluded from the PP analysis because they did not have a valid assessment of HbA1c after 12 
weeks. Twelve (12) subjects in the FAS (5 in the IDegAsp group and 7 in the IDet group) did not 
contribute information to the HbA1c analysis after 16 weeks of treatment. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 8/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
Primary endpoint 
All observed HbA1c measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times were 
analysed using a mixed model for repeated measurements (MMRM) with an unstructured covariance 
matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as factors and baseline HbA1c 
as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and covariates were also  included in the model. 
Region was a factor with 3 levels: EU including Russia and Israel; North America; Other. Age group 
was a factor with the following three levels: 1-5 years; 6-11 years; 12-17 years. 
The model was fitted to all the data simultaneously (all treatment groups) and the relevant treatment 
differences were estimated. 
Non-inferiority was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval 
(CI) was below or equal to 0.4% or equivalent if the p-value for the one-sided test of the null-
hypothesis (H0) against the alternative hypothesis (HA), 
H0: D > 0.4% against HA: D ≤ 0.4%, 
was less than or equal to 2.5%, where D was the mean treatment difference after 16 weeks of 
treatment (IDegAsp minus IDet). 
If non-inferiority was confirmed, the superiority of the IDegAsp over IDet was to be investigated. 
Superiority was considered confirmed if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% CI, which was 
calculated using the FAS, was below 0%. The PP analysis was considered supportive. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The primary efficacy analysis was repeated on the PP analysis set and the set of all completed 
subjects. 
The following sensitivity analyses were performed using the FAS only. 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment was analysed using an analysis of variance 
method with treatment, sex, region and age group as fixed factors and baseline HbA1c as covariate and 
where the missing values were imputed using the Last Observation Carried Forward method. 
All observed HbA1c measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times were 
also analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix where the only factors were 
treatment and visit and baseline HbA1c was included as a covariate. The two interactions between visit 
and treatment and visit and baseline HbA1c were also included in the model. 
Secondary endpoints 
All observed FPG measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled measurement times were 
analysed using an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, 
region, age group and visit as factors and baseline FPG as covariate. Interactions between visit and all 
factors and covariates were also included in the model. 
All observed mean of before meals and all observed before bedtime PG values available post-
randomisation at scheduled measurement times were analysed separately with a MMRM with an 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 9/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
unstructured covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as 
factors and baseline response value as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and 
covariates were also included in the model. 
The logarithmically transformed SMPG values available before breakfast after 16 weeks were analysed 
as repeated measures in a linear mixed model with treatment, sex, region and age group as fixed 
factors and subject as random factor. The model assumed independent within- and between subject 
errors with variances depending on treatment. Within-subject variability as measured by CV% for a 
treatment could be calculated from the corresponding residual variance σ2 as  
treatments was calculated using the delta method. 
 The confidence interval for the CV ratio between 
All observed mean and fluctuation in the 8-point profile and prandial PG increments available post-
randomisation at scheduled measurements times were analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured 
covariance matrix. The model included treatment, sex, region, age group and visit as factors and 
baseline values of the response as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and covariates 
were also included in the model. Fluctuation in the 8-point profile was logarithmically transferred 
before analysis. 
All observed 8-point profile (SMPG) measurements available post-randomisation at scheduled 
measurements times were analysed with an MMRM with an unstructured covariance matrix. The model 
included treatment, sex, region, age group, time-point within the 8-point profile and visit as factors 
and corresponding baseline SMPG as covariate. Interactions between visit and all factors and 
covariates were also included in the model and, in addition, interaction between treatment and visit 
and time-point was included. This was a post-hoc analysis. 
The number of treatment emergent hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed separately using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period for which a 
hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, 
sex, region and age group as fixed factors. Separate analyses were performed for severe episodes and 
confirmed episodes considering all episodes and nocturnal episodes. 
The number of treatment emergent hyperglycaemic episodes and the number of treatment emergent 
hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis were analysed separately using a negative binomial regression 
model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period for which an episode was 
considered treatment emergent as offset. The model included treatment, sex, region and age group as 
fixed factors. 
Other safety parameters were summarised descriptively. 
Assessor’s comments 
Statistical methods are in line with guidelines. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 10/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Demographics and Baseline data 
The demographics and baseline diabetes characteristics at week 0 were comparable between the 
treatment groups apart from slight differences in mean FPG and mean duration of diabetes (Table 2). 
For the overall study population, the mean (standard deviation [SD]) FPG at baseline was slightly 
higher in the IDegAsp group than in the IDet group: 8.6 (4.4) mmol/L versus 8.1 (4.2) mmol/L, 
respectively. The mean (SD) duration of diabetes was slightly higher in the IDegAsp group than in the 
IDet group: 4.4 (3.7) years versus 3.8 (3.2) years, respectively. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 11/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 2 Baseline and diabetes characteristics - descriptive statistics - full analysis set 
Efficacy results 
Primary endpoint – Change from baseline in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment 
The primary objective of this trial was to confirm the efficacy of IDegAsp administered OD + meal-time 
IAsp for the remaining meals in controlling glycaemia with respect to change from baseline in HbA1c 
after 16 weeks of treatment. 
IDegAsp OD + IAsp maintained glycaemic control as measured by change in HbA1c and non-inferiority 
to IDet + IAsp in terms of changing HbA1c was confirmed, as the upper limit of the 95% CI for the 
mean treatment difference was ≤ 0.4%; see table 3. Superiority was not confirmed as the upper limit 
of the 95% CI for the mean difference was above 0. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 12/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment - primary statistical analysis - full analysis set 
The trend for the development of HbA1c over time was similar in the IDegAsp and IDet group, with a 
minor reduction from baseline to week 16 (see Figure 2). HbA1c at baseline (week 0) was similar in 
the IDegAsp and IDet group with an observed mean (SD) of 8.1% (1.2) in the IDegAsp group and 
8.1% (1.2) in the IDet group. At week 16 the observed mean (SD) HbA1c was 7.9% (1.2) in the 
IDegAsp group and 7.8% (1.3) in the IDet group (Table 4). The observed change from baseline to 
week 16 was −0.3%-point in both the IDegAsp and IDet group, calculated based on subjects with 
available HbA1c measurements at both baseline and week 16. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 13/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4 HbA1c by treatment week – descriptive statistics - full analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 14/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 HbA1c (%) by treatment week - mean plots (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: 
age groups) 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group, the trend for HbA1c was similar in all age groups, with a minor 
reduction from baseline to week 16, see Figure 2. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group, the trend for HbA1c was similar in all age groups, with a minor 
reduction from baseline to week 16, see Figure 2. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 15/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity analyses 
Sensitivity analyses were performed by repeating the primary analysis on the PP analysis set, and the 
set of all completed subjects, Furthermore, sensitivity analysis were performed on the FAS using a 
simple MMRM model and an ANOVA model using LOCF. All sensitivity analysis showed an estimated 
mean treatment difference in line with the main analysis and supported the conclusion of non-
inferiority, as the upper limit of the 95% CI ≤ 0.4% and the estimated mean treatment differences 
were close to that for the primary analysis (–0.04%-points); see Table 5. 
Table 5 HbA1c at week 16 – Statistical sensitivity analysis 
Secondary endpoints 
Fasting plasma glucose 
All subjects 
In the IDegAsp group, mean FPG was 8.6 mmol/L at baseline and 8.4 mmol/L at week 16. The 
observed mean change from baseline at week 16 was −0.3 mmol/L, calculated based on subjects with 
available FPG measurements at both baseline and week 16. In the IDet group; mean FPG was 8.1 
mmol/L at baseline and 8.3 mmol/L at week 16. The observed mean change from baseline at week 16 
was −0.1 mmol/L, calculated based on subjects with available FPG measurements at both baseline and 
week 16 (see EOT Tables 14.2.216 and 14.2.220. In the IDet group, the observed values at baseline 
(N=166) and week 16 (N=158) indicate an increase in mean FPG from baseline to week 16, however 
the observed mean change from baseline was calculated based on subjects with available FPG 
measurements at both baseline and week 16 (N=148) which resulted in a small decrease in the 
observed mean change in FPG. 
The estimated mean treatment difference (IDegAsp OD − IDet) was 0.31 mmol/L [−0.70; 1.33]95%CI 
mmol/L for the change from baseline in FPG after 16 weeks of treatment, hence not statistically 
significant. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 16/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Fasting plasma glucose by treatment week – mean plots (upper panel: all subjects; 
lower panel: age groups) 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group mean FPG followed the overall trend (as seen for all subjects) 
from baseline to week 16 in children 1-5 years and adolescents 12-17 years, and tended to increase in 
children 6-11 years, which was caused by a few outliers with elevated FPG levels at week 16. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group mean FPG followed the overall trend (as seen for all subjects) from 
baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 17/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8-point self-measured plasma glucose profiles 
All subjects 
Similar trends in both treatment groups were noted for the SMPG values from baseline to week 16. The 
8-point SMPG profiles at baseline and after 16 weeks are presented as mean plots in Figure 4. There 
were no statistically significant differences between treatments groups at any time points. 
Figure 4 8-point self-measured plasma glucose profile at baseline (left) and at 16 weeks 
(right) - mean plot - full analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 18/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Age groups 
Figure 5 8-point self measured plasma glucose profile at baseline (left) and week 16 (right) 
- mean plot – IDegAsp (Upper panel) and IDet (Lower panel) - by age group - full analysis 
set 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group trends were similar for the shape of the 8-point SMPG profiles across 
age groups at week 16 (see Figure 5). 
Mean 8-point SMPG 
After 16 weeks the change from baseline of the mean of the 8-point SMPG profiles was similar between 
the two treatment groups, see Figure 6. The observed mean change from baseline at week 16 was 
−0.3 mmol/L in the IDegAsp group and −0.2 mmol/L in the IDet group, calculated based on subjects 
with available SMPG measurements at both baseline and week 16. The estimated mean treatment 
difference (IDegAsp OD – IDet) was −0.06 mmol/L [−0.62; 0.51]95%CI.  
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 19/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Mean of 8-point self measured plasma glucose profile by treatment week – mean 
plots (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group the mean of the 8-point SMPG profiles followed the overall trend 
(as seen for all subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group the mean of the 8-point SMPG profiles followed the overall trend (as 
seen for all subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 20/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fluctuation in plasma glucose 
All subjects 
The observed geometric mean fluctuation in PG in the IDegAsp group was 2.1 mmol/L at baseline and 
remained unchanged at week 16; in the IDet group it was 2.2 mmol/L at baseline and 2.0 mmol/L at 
week 16. The estimated mean treatment ratio was not statistically significant, as the ratio IDegAsp 
OD/IDet was 1.09 [0.98; 1.22]95%CI. 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group the fluctuation in PG followed the overall trend (as seen for all 
subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group the fluctuation in PG followed the overall trend (as seen for all 
subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
Prandial plasma glucose increment 
All subjects 
Overall, mean prandial PG increment decreased from baseline to week 16 in both treatment groups for 
the mean of all meals, breakfast, and lunch. Mean prandial PG increment for main evening meal was 
similar at baseline and week 16 in the IDegAsp group and decreased slightly from baseline to week 16 
in the IDet group. 
After 16 weeks there were no statistically significant differences in prandial PG increment between the 
treatment groups for mean of all meals, breakfast, lunch and main evening meal. 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group prandial increments followed the overall trend (as seen for all 
subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group prandial increments followed the overall trend (as seen for all 
subjects) from baseline to week 16 in all age groups. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 21/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nocturnal increment 
No statistical analysis was performed for nocturnal increment in PG; descriptive statistics and mean 
plots are provided for all subjects and by age group. 
The trends for the nocturnal increment were the same for both treatment groups and no marked 
differences were observed for any of the age groups after 16 weeks of treatment. 
4-point SMPG for dose adjustment 
All subjects 
There were no statistically significant treatment differences in pre-breakfast, pre-lunch, pre-main 
evening meal or pre-bedtime SMPG measurements after 16 weeks. 
In both treatment groups mean pre-breakfast, pre-lunch, pre-main evening meal and pre-bedtime 
SMPG increased from week 0 to 1, and gradually decreased from week 1 to 16. This most likely reflects 
the proposed decrease of 20% of total insulin at randomisation dose as recommended in the titration 
algorithm. 
Age groups 
IDegAsp 
Within the IDegAsp treatment group the SMPG measurements followed the overall trend. 
IDet 
Within the IDet treatment group the SMPG measurements followed the overall trend (as seen for all 
subjects) from baseline to week 16. 
Within-subject variability as measured by coefficient of variation (%) after 16 weeks 
The within-subject variation in pre-breakfast SMPG was similar for the treatment groups. The 
estimated mean treatment ratio (IDegAsp OD/IDet) was = 1.02 [0.91; 1.14]95%CI. 
Efficacy conclusions 
Primary endpoint 
•  HbA1c: IDegAsp OD + IAsp effectively maintained glycaemic control and was non-inferior to 
IDet + IAsp in terms of change from baseline in HbA1c, with an estimated mean treatment 
difference (IDegAsp OD − IDet) of −0.04%-points [−0.23; 0.15]95% CI. Superiority was not 
confirmed. After 16 weeks of treatment, the observed mean (SD) HbA1c was 7.9% with 
IDegAsp OD + IAsp and 7.8% (1.3) with IDet + IAsp. 
Supportive secondary efficacy endpoints 
•  FPG: After 16 weeks of treatment, FPG was 8.4 mmol/L with IDegAsp OD + IAsp and 8.3 
mmol/L with IDet + IAsp. The observed mean change from baseline at week 16 was −0.3 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 22/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mmol/L with IDegAsp OD + IAsp and −0.1 mmol/L with IDet + IAsp. The estimated mean 
treatment difference (IDegAsp OD – IDet) was not statistically significant, 0.31 mmol/L 
[−0.70; 1.33]95%CI mmol/L. 
•  8-point SMPG: There were no statistically significant treatment differences in the mean of the 
8 point profile, in prandial PG increments (mean of all meals, breakfast, lunch and main 
evening meal) or in the SMPG fluctuation at 16 weeks. 
•  4-point SMPG: There were no statistically significant treatment differences in pre-breakfast, 
pre-lunch, pre-main evening meal or pre-bedtime SMPG at 16 weeks. Within-subject variability 
in pre-breakfast SMPG after 16 weeks was similar for the two treatment groups; estimated 
mean treatment ratio IDegAsp OD/IDet = 1.02 [0.91; 1.14]95%CI. 
Assessor’s comments 
There were no differences in indices of glycaemic control, i.e. HbA1c, FPG, 8-point SMPG and 4 point 
SMPG, between subjects treated with IDegAsp OD + IAsp and subjects treated with  IDet + IAsp, and 
both treatments effectively maintained glycaemic control during the study period. Results from the full 
dataset were comparable to results obtained when stratified on age groups.  
Safety results 
Adverse events 
The percentage of subjects reporting AEs and the overall rate of AEs per 100 patient years of exposure 
(PYE) were similar in the IDegAsp and the IDet treatment groups (915 vs. 853 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively); see Table 6. The majority of the AEs in both treatment groups were non-serious, mild in 
severity and considered unlikely related to trial product. The rates of AEs considered possibly or 
probably related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet), as judged by the investigator, were 47 vs. 37 
events per 100 PYE, respectively, and approximately 75% of all subjects in either treatment group had 
an outcome of recovered at end of trial. 
No unexpected differences between the 3 age groups with respect to type of AEs were observed in the 
treatment groups. A slightly higher rate of AEs in the IDegAsp treatment group for children 1-5 years 
was observed. 
No subjects died during the trial. The observed rates of SAEs were numerically higher with IDegAsp 
than with IDet (Table 12–5). This difference was mostly driven by a larger number of hypoglycaemic 
episodes in the IDegAsp treatment group. The number of SAEs considered possibly or probably related 
to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet) was 5 events in 5 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 1 
event in 1 subject in the IDet treatment group. 
One (1) subject in the IDegAsp group was withdrawn from the trial during the 16-week treatment 
period due to an event of ‘hypoglycaemic seizure’. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 23/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Adverse events – treatment emergent – summary – safety analysis set 
Apart from hypoglycaemic episodes reported on the hypoglycaemic episode form, the most frequently 
reported AEs (≥5%) in both treatment groups were “headache”, “nasopharyngitis”, “abdominal pain 
upper”, “pyrexia” and “vomiting” (Table 7). 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 24/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 7 Adverse events by system organ class and preferred term – most frequent [>=5%] 
– treatment emergent – summary – safety analysis set 
For some system organ classes (SOCs) and preferred terms, the percentages of subjects that reported 
events were numerically different between treatment groups. Numerical differences in rates were 
observed with respect to ‘hypoglycaemia’ (see below for details). Furthermore, ‘vomiting’, ‘cough’ and 
‘pyrexia’ were reported more frequently with IDegAsp than with IDet and ‘upper respiratory tract  
‘infection’, ‘pharyngitis’ and ‘headache’ were reported more frequently with IDet than with IDegAsp 
(Table 12–6). These events are frequently reported for this population and differences in rates are 
considered a chance finding. 
Hypoglycaemia related adverse events 
The reported hypoglycaemia related AEs described in this section are a subset of the total number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes reported in the trial. Hypoglycaemia related AEs were reported by the 
following preferred terms in the IDegAsp vs. the IDet treatment groups: ‘Hypoglycaemia’ (22 vs. 7 
events per 100 PYE) and ‘hypoglycaemic seizure’ (5 vs. 0 events per 100 PYE); see Table 8. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 25/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 Hypoglycaemia reported as AEs – treatment emergent – summary – safety analysis 
Adverse events by age groups 
The pattern of AEs changed with age: Children 1-5 years had more infections than older children, and 
similarly ‘vomiting’ and ‘pyrexia’ were more commonly reported in children 1-5 years. Older children 
reported more headache and abdominal pain and puberty related disorders, as expected. 
IDegAsp 
In the IDegAsp treatment group, the overall rate of AEs was higher in children 1-5 years than in the 
two older age groups (1192 events per 100 PYE compared to 792 and 872 events per 100 PYE in 
children 6-11 years and adolescents 12-17 years, respectively). This difference seemed to be related 
to events within the infections and infestations SOC. 
‘Hypoglycaemia’ was recorded at rates of 50, 16 and 12 events per 100 PYE across the 3 age groups. 
IDet 
The overall rate of AEs was lower in children 1-5 years than in the two older age groups (702 events 
per 100 PYE compared to 905 and 891 events per 100 PYE in children 6-11 years and adolescents 12-
17 years, respectively). ‘Hypoglycaemia’ was recorded at rates of 16, 0 and 9 events per 100 PYE 
across the 3 age groups. 
Adverse events by relation to trial product(s) 
The overall rates of AEs considered possibly or probably related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet), as 
judged by the investigator, were 47 vs. 37 events per 100 PYE, respectively (26 events in 22 subjects 
with IDegAsp and 20 events in 16 subjects with IDet). The most notable differences between IDegAsp 
and IDet were hypoglycaemia related AEs considered possibly or probably related to trial product, 
where more events were reported in the IDegAsp treatment group (see below), followed by events in 
the gastrointestinal disorders SOC, where more events were reported as related to trial product in the 
IDet treatment group (see below). The overall rates of AEs considered possibly or probably related to 
IAsp as judged by the investigator, were 37 vs. 32 events per 100 PYE in the IDegAsp vs IDet 
treatment group, respectively (20 events in 14 subjects with IDegAsp and 17 events in 12 subjects 
with IDet). 
More hypoglycaemia related AEs were reported as possibly or probably related to IDegAsp (12 events 
in 11 subjects) compared to IDet (3 events in 2 subjects) (Table 9). Of the 12 events related to 
IDegAsp, 6 events in 6 subjects were also related to IAsp. Additionally, in the IDegAsp treatment 
group 1 event was related to IAsp only. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 26/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
All the 3 events related to IDet were were also related to IAsp. Additionally, in the IDet treatment 
group 1 event was related to IAsp only. 
Table 9 Hypoglycaemia-related AEs possibly or probably related to investigational medicinal 
product by system organ class and preferred term – treatment emergent - summary - safety 
analysis set 
For gastrointestinal disorders, more events related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet) were reported in 
the IDet treatment group compared to the IDegAsp treatment group (5 events in 4 subjects with IDet 
and 0 events with IDegAsp). All events were single occurrences under different preferred terms except 
for 2 events of ‘vomiting’ in 2 subjects. The same trend was seen for events related to IAsp (5 events 
in 4 subjects with IDet and 1 event in 1 subject with IDegAsp). 
Adverse events by severity 
The majority of the AEs were mild or moderate in severity. The rates of mild AEs was similar with 
IDegAsp and IDet (391 events in 126 subjects with IDegAsp and 397 events in 129 subjects with IDet 
leading to rates of 714 vs. 736 events per 100 PYE, respectively) whereas the rates of moderate AEs 
(96 events in 52 subjects with IDegAsp and 58 events in 30 subjects with IDet leading to rates of 175 
vs. 108 events per 100 PYE) were higher with IDegAsp (Table 12–5). No apparent pattern in the 
reported events was observed for either mild or moderate events. 
A total of 6.6% vs. 2.8% of subjects reported severe AEs with IDegAsp and IDet, respectively. The 
observed rate of severe AEs was numerically higher with IDegAsp compared with IDet (14 events in 12 
subjects with IDegAsp and 5 events in 5 subjects with IDet leading to rates of 26 vs. 9 events per 100 
PYE, respectively). The difference between treatment groups was driven by hypoglycaemia related AEs 
(9 events in 9 subjects in the IDegAsp group and 2 events in 2 subjects in the IDet group). 
All of the hypoglycaemia related events considered severe in the IDegAsp treatment group were 
possibly or probably related to IDegAsp compared to 1 event in the IDet treatment group that was 
related to IDet (Table 12–9 and EOT Tables 14.3.1.25). Of the 9 events related to IDegAsp, 6 events in 
6 subjects were also related to IAsp. The 1 event related to IDet,was also related to IAsp. 
Additionally, in the IDet treatment group 1 hypoglycaemia related AE was related to IAsp only. 
All subjects with severe AEs were recovered or were recovering at end of trial. No severe AEs were 
related to the device. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 27/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabel 9 Severe adverse events by system organ class and preferred term – treatment 
emergent – summary – safety analysis set 
Adverse events by relation to technical complaints 
In the IDet treatment group, 1 subject reported a non-serious AE related to the device; ‘device 
breakage’ with NovoPen® Junior (US). The AE was mild in severity, probably related to IDet and the 
subject recovered completely. No other AEs were reported in relation to the device breakage. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 28/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths and other serious adverse events 
Deaths 
No deaths were reported in this trial. 
Serious adverse events 
A total of 21 SAEs were reported; 14 events in 11 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 7 
events in 7 subjects in the IDet treatment group. The rate of SAEs per 100 PYE was 26 and 13 in the 
IDegAsp and IDet treatment group, respectively Table 10. 
Most of the events in both treatment groups were unlikely related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet) or 
IAsp. The number of SAEs considered possibly or probably related to trial product (IDegAsp or IDet) 
was 5 events in 5 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 1 event in 1 subject in the IDet 
treatment group. All subjects recovered except 1 subject who was recovering from a tibial plateau 
fracture due to trampoline fall (Table 10). When evaluating rates between treatment groups the low 
number of subjects with few events should be taken into consideration. 
Table 10 Serious adverse events – treatment emergent - summary - safety analysis set 
SAEs are summarised by SOC and preferred term in Table 11. No SAEs were reported by ≥5% of 
subjects. SAEs by preferred term reported in ≥1% of subjects were related to ‘hypoglycaemia’. For 
IDegAsp, the most frequently reported SAE were hypoglycaemia related AEs; 5 events of 
‘hypoglycaemia’ in 5 subjects and 1 event in 1 subject of ‘hypoglycaemic seizure’ vs 1 event of 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 29/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
‘hypoglycaemia’ in the IDet treatment group (Table 12). All other SAEs were single occurrences in both 
treatment groups (Table 11). 
Table 11 Serious adverse events by system organ class and preferred term – treatment 
emergent - summary - safety analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 30/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 12 Hypoglycaemia SAEs - treatment emergent - summary - safety analysis set 
One SUSAR (suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction), ‘loss of consciousness’, was reported by 
1 subject in the IDet treatment group 114 days after treatment initiation. The subject recovered 
without treatment. It is unknown whether the event was related to hypoglycaemia.  
Regarding non-treatment emergent SAEs, one subject reported one SAE (‘hypoglycaemia’) prior to 
treatment with trial drugs whereas no SAEs were reported after the last day on trial products. 
Only a subset (9 events in the IDegAsp treatment group and 2 events in the IDet treatment group) of 
the SAEs were severe in severity. Five (5) out of 9 severe SAEs in the IDegAsp treatment group and 1 
out 2 severe SAEs in the IDet treatment group were hypoglycaemia related AEs. 
One AE of ‘severe hypoglycaemia’ was reported as a non-serious AE by the investigator but upgraded 
to serious by the MAH, who considered this event ‘medically significant’. As the clinical database 
reflects the investigator reported data, this event is included as a non-serious AE in the clinical 
database (tables and listings), but is included as an SAE in the narratives. This event has not been 
included in the calculation of the event rate per 100 PYE (Table 12). 
•  A 3-year old girl was reported to have ‘severe hypoglycaemia’ 57 days after trial product 
initiation. The day before the event, at lunch, the child´s nanny accidentally gave the child 10 
units of IAsp instead of IDegAsp (reported as ‘wrong medication administered’). The mother 
was advised to give 10 units of IDegAsp with the main evening meal. The girl had 
asymptomatic episodes of hypoglycaemia later that evening. On the day of the event, at 15:45 
the girl had change of mental status with involuntary movements while napping but not a 
seizure. The event was reported as ‘severe hypoglycaemia’. She was treated with glucagon and 
fully recovered within minutes. The last dose of IDegAsp was taken at lunch (13:30; 10 units) 
(blood glucose was 226 mg/dL). The last dose of IAsp (5.5 units) was taken at breakfast. 
Following the event the girl´s parents withdrew consent, not only due to the event of 
hypoglycaemia, but because trial treatment was not helping the girl´s diabetes management. 
The investigator considered the event (‘severe hypoglycaemia’) probably related to IDegAsp 
and IAsp, whereas the MAH considered the event possibly related to IDegAsp and unlikely 
related to IAsp, due to the timing of the event. 
Serious adverse events across age groups 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 31/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
IDegAsp 
The number of subjects with SAEs by age group was very low and therefore no evaluation of trends 
among age groups could be made. 
IDet 
As with IDegAsp, the number of subjects with SAEs by age group was very low and therefore no 
evaluation of trends among age groups could be made. 
Serious adverse events by relationship 
Five (5) subjects reported 5 SAEs that were considered possibly or probably related to IDegAsp and 1 
subject reported 1 SAE that was considered possibly or probably related to IDet, leading to a higher 
reporting rate with IDegAsp compared to IDet (9 vs. 2 events per 100 PYE) (Table 13). 
All but 1 event (‘loss of consciousness’ in the IDet treatment group) were hypoglycaemia related. The 
number of SAEs considered probably or possibly related to IAsp was low and similar between the 
treatment groups (3 events in 3 subjects with IDegAsp and 2 events in 2 subjects with IDet). Three (3) 
SAEs in 3 subjects were related to both IDegAsp and IAsp and 1 SAE was related to both IDet and IAsp 
(‘loss of consciousness’). No SAEs were related to the device. 
Table 13 Serious adverse events possibly or probably related to investigational medicinal 
product by system organ class and preferred term - treatment emergent - summary - safety 
analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 32/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the IDegAsp treatment group, 5 subjects reported 5 SAEs considered possibly or probably related to 
IDegAsp: 
•  A 3-year-old boy treated with IDegAsp experienced ‘hypoglycaemia’ 8 days after 
randomisation. The patient fainted on the couch in the afternoon, 30 minutes after last dose of 
IDegAsp (dose unknown) and 4 hours 30 minutes after last dose of IAsp. The mother rubbed 
sugar in oral mucosa and provided tactile stimulation until the patient responded (blood 
glucose was measured to be 38 mg/dL). The patient had altered mental state and was either 
semiconscious or unconscious. The patient had a soft drink and ate and was considered 
recovered from the event the same day. The event was not related to physical activity. The 
investigator assessed the event as probably related to IDegAsp and IAsp. The doses of 
IDegAsp and IAsp remained unchanged. 
•  An 8-year-old girl treated with IDegAsp experienced ‘hypoglycaemia’ 31 days after 
randomisation. The episode occurred 36 hours after the patient had increased physical activity 
with her parents: 06:30 in the morning the subject presented with headache and vomited 
several times (blood glucose was 45 mg/dL). Last dose of insulin was at 16:00 (IAsp) and 
19:00 (IDegAsp) the day before. The event was initially treated with food, which increased the 
blood glucose to 65-67 mg/dL. The subject was subsequently hospitalised for observation and 
discharged 3 days after. The investigator assessed the event as probably related to IDegAsp 
and possibly related to IAsp. The doses of IDegAsp and IAsp were reduced after the event. 
•  A 13-year-old girl treated with IDegAsp experienced ‘hypoglycaemic seizure’ 64 days after 
randomisation. The episode occurred approximately 1½ hour after a no-carbohydrate dinner. 
30 min prior to dinner, blood glucose was 16.1 mmol/L and the girl injected 5 units IAsp. At 
dinner time blood glucose was decreased to 12.9 mmol/L and the girl took additionally 42 units 
IDegAsp and 6 units IAsp. At bedtime (21:16) blood glucose was 7.7 mmol/L. At 22:07, the 
father checked the subject, who was found asleep with a blood glucose value of 1.3 mmol/L. 
The father woke her up and administered glucose. A few minutes later she had a seizure. The 
father injected glucagon 1 amp. At 22:19, blood glucose was measured to be high ('HI') and 
the patient was awake but confused. At 23:59 blood glucose was 4.9 mmol/l. The investigator 
assessed the event as probably related to IDegAsp and IAsp. The dose of IDegAsp remained 
unchanged and the dose of IAsp was reduced. 
•  A 7-year-old boy treated with IDegAsp experienced ‘hypoglycaemia’ 39 days after 
randomisation. The episode occurred at approximately 2 hours after last dose of IDegAsp. The 
subject did not eat enough carbohydrates for snack time and at 11:57 the mother noted that 
he was pale and confused. Blood glucose was 2.5 mmol/l. The subject was administered 2 
times glucose sweets and 1 time glucose gel to correct the severe hypoglycaemia. Blood 
glucose increased to 10.9 mmol/L after 22 minutes. Last dose of IAsp was at 19.05 the 
evening before. The investigator assessed the event as probably related to IDegAsp and 
unlikely related to IAsp. The doses of IDegAsp and IAsp remained unchanged. 
•  A 3-year-old girl treated with IDegAsp experienced ‘hypoglycaemia’ 25 days after 
randomisation. The episode occurred at noon (12:19) approximately 4 hours after last doses of 
IDegAsp and IAsp. The girl was confused and unsure where she was. Blood glucose was 1.5 
mmol/L. She was treated with fruit juice and one dose of sweet, which increased blood glucose 
to 3.7 mmol/L within 30 minutes. At 15:00 blood glucose had increased to 26 mmol/L. The 
investigator assessed the event as possibly related to IDegAsp and unlikely related to IAsp, 
however based on the pharmacological effect of the products a causal relationship to any of the 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 33/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
insulins cannot be ruled out. The dose of IDegAsp was reduced and the dose of IAsp remained 
unchanged. 
In the IDet treatment group, 1 girl reported 1 SAE (‘loss of consciousness’) considered possibly related 
to IAsp: 
•  A 14-year-old girl treated with IDet for T1DM experienced ‘loss of consciousness’ 114 days 
after randomisation. The girl got unconscious and fell down on the street and as a consequence 
had a mild cranial traumatism. The subject regained consciousness after a few minutes. The 
girl was hospitalised for observation and had an electroencephalogram performed; 
electroencephalogram, electrocardiogram and cerebral ultrasound were all normal. It is 
unknown if the fall was related to a hypoglycaemic episode. Capillary glycaemia was 105 
mg/dL before the event and 68 mg/dL during transport to hospital. At admission, capillary 
glycaemia was 105 mg/dL. The patient did not receive any treatment for the event. Relevant 
medical history included unconsciousness (normal glycaemia).The investigator assessed the 
event as possibly related to both IDet and IAsp, however, the doses of IDet and IAsp remained 
unchanged. 
Other significant adverse events 
Adverse events leading to withdrawal 
One (1) subject in the IDegAsp treatment group was withdrawn from the trial due to an AE 
(‘hypoglycaemic seizure’) . 
•  An 11-year-old girl treated with IDegAsp for T1DM experienced ‘hypoglycaemic seizure’ 67 days 
after initiation of trial drug. Before dinner (23:00) the blood glucose was reported as ‘high’ (≥
501 mg/dL). The patient was given 46 U of IDegAsp and had a carbohydrate rich meal. The 
following morning (06:15) the patient woke up and started measuring the blood glucose level, but 
started twitching, which progressed to unresponsiveness and tonic-clonic seizure for 30 seconds. 
The patient was treated with oral glucose and the blood glucose was measured to 76 mg/dL. The 
patient was still disoriented and taken to the emergency room by ambulance. She was considered 
recovered from the event at 07:32. The investigator assessed the event as probably related to 
IDegAsp and unlikely related to IAsp (last dose unknown). Trial product was discontinued initiated 
by the patient and she was withdrawn from the trial. For further details on this event. 
In addition, 1 subject in the IDet treatment group was withdrawn to due to ‘other’ reasons described 
as “intermittent but recurrent hypoglycaemia attributed to trial product”. 
Adverse events leading to dose reduction 
The number of AEs leading to dose reduction of IDegAsp, IDet and/or IAsp was numerically higher with 
IDegAsp compared with IDet (21 events in 15 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 9 events in 
8 subjects in the IDet treatment group, leading to rates of 38 vs. 17 events per 100 PYE, respectively). 
Dose reduction due to AEs was most frequently related to events of infection or because of 
gastrointestinal disorders and events of ‘hypoglycaemia’. In both treatment groups most of the events 
related to dose reduction were reported in the SOC Infections and infestations (6 events in 5 subjects 
with IDegAsp and 6 events in 6 subjects with IDet, respectively). Insulin adjustments are normally 
required in connection with infections. The infections themselves may result in a need for higher insulin 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 34/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
doses but the associated symptoms, such as vomiting, decreased appetite and diarrhoea, may cause a 
need for reducing the dose. Five (5) hypoglycaemia related AEs led to dose reductions in the IDegAsp 
treatment group compared to 0 events in the IDet treatment group. 
Among the AEs leading to dose reduction, 5 subjects reported 5 AEs that were considered possibly or 
probably related to IDegAsp (3 cases of ‘hypoglycaemia’, 1 ‘wrong drug administered’ and 1 
‘overdose’) and 1 subject reported 1 AE that was considered probably related to IDet (‘accidental 
overdose’). The AEs considered probably or possibly related to IAsp were 2 events in 2 subjects in the 
IDegAsp treatment group and no events in the IDet group. In the IDegAsp treatment group 1 event 
that led to an IDegAsp dose reduction (‘hypoglycaemia’) was related to both IDegAsp and IAsp. 
Eleven (11) subjects had at least one AE that led to a dose reduction of IDegAsp (15 events in total) 
and 5 subjects had an AE that led to a dose reduction of IDet (5 events in total). Twelve (12) subjects 
in the IDegAsp group had at least 1 AE that led to an IAsp dose reduction (16 events in total) and 7 
subjects in the IDet group had at least one AE that led to an IAsp dose reduction. 
Five (5) of the events leading to dose reduction were serious in the IDegAsp treatment group, while 
none was serious in the IDet treatment group. All subjects recovered from the events that led to dose 
reduction. 
Adverse events leading to temporary withdrawal of trial product 
In total, 3 subjects (0.8%) had 3 AEs leading to temporary withdrawal of trial product; 2 subjects 
(1.1%) in the IDegAsp treatment group and 1 subject (0.6%) in the IDet treatment group. The events 
were ‘gastroenteritis’, ‘wrong drug administered’ and ‘fall’, respectively. 
All three events were considered unlikely related to trial product. Both subjects in the IDegAsp 
treatment group recovered from the events. The 1 subject in the IDet treatment group was recovering 
at end of the trial (‘Fall’, tibial plateau fracture due to trampoline fall, in subject X).  
12.5.4 Adverse events of special interest 
Medication errors concerning trial products 
Eight (8) events of medication error occurred in 7 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group (1 
‘overdose’ and 7 ‘wrong drug administered’) and 6 events in 6 subjects in the IDet treatment group (2 
‘accidental overdose’, 1 ‘drug dispensing error’ and 3 ‘wrong drug administered’). All of the ‘wrong 
drug administered’ events were due to mix-up of insulins by the subjects’ carer. In the IDegAsp 
treatment group, 5 out of the 7 ‘wrong drug administered’ events were due to mix-up between the two 
trial products, and 2 events (both in subject Y) were due to mix-up between the trial product and the 
pre-trial insulin. In the IDet treatment group, out of the 3 ‘wrong drug administered’ events, 1 was due 
to mix-up between the two trial insulins, and 2 were due to mix-up with the pre-trial insulin product. 
None of the events were reported as SAEs. Most of the events were mild in severity and all subjects 
recovered from the events.  
Neoplasms 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 35/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
No neoplasms were reported with IDegAsp, while 1 event of ‘skin papilloma’ was reported with IDet. 
This event was non-serious, mild in severity, considered unlikely related to trial product and the 
subject recovered completely. 
Allergic reactions 
A total of 9 events of allergic reactions occurred in 6 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 5 
events in 4 subjects in the IDet treatment group leading to rates of 16 vs. 9 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively. This difference was mostly driven by 5 events of ‘hypersensitivity’ in 2 subjects in the 
IDegAsp treatment group vs. no events in the IDet treatment group. All of the events were unlikely 
related to trial product and the dose of trial product did not change because of the events. 
Injection site reactions 
One (1) event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ was reported in 1 subject with IDegAsp and 3 events of 
injection site reactions ( 2 events of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ and 1 event of ‘injection site swelling’) 
in 3 subjects were reported with IDet. One (1) event was considered possibly or probably related to 
IDegAsp or IDet in each treatment group respectively. Additionally, 1 injection site reaction in each 
treatment group was considered possibly or probably related to IAsp. 
None of the injection site reactions were serious. One (1) event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ in the 
IDet treatment group was of moderate severity and 3 events were mild in severity. None of the 
subjects withdrew due to injection site reactions. Two events of ‘injection site swelling’ had an outcome 
of not recovered. 
Across age groups, 1 event of ‘injection site hypertrophy’ in the IDet treatment group was reported in 
children 1-5 years, no events were reported in children 6-11 years, and the remaining 3 events were 
reported in adolescents 12-17 years. 
Suspected transmission of an infectious agent via a trial product 
There were no AEs related to suspected transmission of infectious agents in this trial. 
Clinical laboratory adverse events 
Few abnormal laboratory measurements were reported as AEs. Apart from events related to 
hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia (including ‘blood ketone body increased’) AEs related to abnormal 
laboratory measurements were few and without any clustering to specific preferred terms. 
The majority of AEs related to ‘blood ketone bodies increased’ were reported based on the subjects’ 
self-measured values in relation to hyperglycaemia. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
Almost all subjects experienced confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during the 16-week treatment 
period with IDegAsp (N=168 [92.8%]) or IDet (N=164 [91.6%]) and the observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes per 100 PYE was 4623 with IDegAsp and 4955 with IDet (Table 14).There was 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 36/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no statistically significant difference between treatment arms in the rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia 
(estimated mean treatment ratio of IDegAsp OD/IDet was 0.95 [0.76; 1.17]95%CI), see (Table 15). 
Overall, there was a tendency to a higher rate for children 6-11 years (Figure 8). This may be due to 
challenges in controlling glycaemia during school hours. The majority of the confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes occurred during daytime (diurnal) for both treatment groups overall and across all age 
groups. Approximately 50% of the subjects in both treatment groups reported 10 or fewer confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Confirmed hypoglycaemia over time is shown in Figure 8. 
Table 14 Hypoglycaemic episodes by classification – treatment emergent – summary - 
safety analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 37/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Hypoglycaemic episodes - treatment emergent - statistical analysis - full analysis 
set 
Figure 8 Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent - mean cumulative 
function (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) – safety analysis set 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups 
IDegAsp 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 38/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes are summarised by age group in Table 16 and illustrated in Figure 
8. In general, the same trend was observed for all age groups compared to the overall population in 
the IDegAsp group, regarding confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes over time, with a slightly higher rate 
for children 6-11 years. 
IDet 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes are summarised by age group in Table 12–16 and illustrated in 
Figure 12–4. Compared to the overall population in the IDet treatment group, all age groups followed 
the same trend over time regarding confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes, with a slightly higher rate for 
children 6-11 years and a slightly lower rate for adolescents 12-17 years. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 39/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 16 Hypoglycaemic episodes by classification and age group – treatment emergent – 
summary – safety analysis set 
Severe hypoglycaemic episodes 
The majority of subjects had no severe hypoglycaemic episodes neither in the IDegAsp treatment 
group [170 (93.9%)] nor in the IDet treatment group [176 (98.3%)]. In the IDegAsp treatment group, 
11 subjects (6.1%) reported 14 severe hypoglycaemic episodes (Table 14), leading to a rate of 26 
episodes per 100 PYE (Table 18). In the IDet treatment group, 3 subjects (1.7%) reported 4 severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes leading to a rate of 7 episodes per 100 PYE (Table 14 and Table 18). There 
was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups (Table 17). 
When evaluating severe hypoglycaemic episodes it is important to note that these were mostly single 
occurrences in individual subjects. Three (3) subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group reported 2 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes each (1 of these subjects reported the events within 19 minutes and it 
was evaluated to be the same episode by the external classifier; see below) and 1 subject in the IDet 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 40/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
treatment group reported 2 severe episodes (Figure 9). Two (2) of the episodes in the IDegAsp group 
and 1 in the IDet group appeared to be related to exercise.  
As evident from the slope in Figure 10 (all subjects), the observed rate of severe hypoglycaemic 
episodes was higher with IDegAsp than with IDet throughout the trial. The majority of the severe 
hypoglycaemic episodes occurred during daytime (diurnal) in both treatment groups. For a distribution 
plot of severe hypoglycaemic episodes. 
Table 17 Severe hypoglycaemic episodes - treatment emergent - statistical analysis – full 
analysis set 
The ISPAD definition of severe hypoglycaemia is very broad and determining whether an episode fulfils 
the definition can be challenging, especially in the youngest age group. Therefore, all reported 
episodes of severe hypoglycaemia were reviewed by an independent, external paediatric 
endocrinologist in a blinded manner, who determined whether the episodes fulfilled criteria for severe 
hypoglycaemia or not. Of the episodes sent for classification, 7 events (in 6 subjects) in IDegAsp 
treatment group were classified as severe based on the most subjective criterion ‘altered mental status 
and cannot assist in his care’; no events in the IDet treatment group met this criteria. 
Additionally, 6 events (in 5 subjects) in the IDegAsp treatment group and 4 events (in 3 subjects) in 
the IDet treatment group involved the child being semiconscious or unconscious, or in a coma ± 
convulsions; see Table 18. One event was rejected as severe hypoglycaemia as the event was 
evaluated to be identical to another event occurring 19 minutes before, thus the subjects was still in 
the process of recovering from the first event. Therefore, as a result of the evaluation 13 and not 14 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes occurred in the IDegAsp treatment group; see Table 18.  
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 41/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 External classified severe hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent - 
summary - safety analysis set 
Figure 9 Distribution of severe hypoglycaemic episodes - subject counts against number of 
episodes - safety analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 42/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 Severe hypoglycaemic episodes - treatment emergent - mean cumulative function 
(upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) – safety analysis set 
Severe hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups 
IDegAsp 
The number of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was similar between age groups; 5 episodes in 4 
subjects were reported in children 1-5 years and in adolescents 12-17 years while 4 episodes in 3 
subjects were reported in children 6-11 years (Figure 10 and Table 19). The rate for children 1-5 years 
was higher compared to other age groups, although it should be noted that the rates are based on few 
episodes. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 43/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
IDet 
Two (2) episodes in 2 subjects were reported in children 1-5 years and 2 episodes in 1 subject were 
reported in adolescents 12-17 years. No episodes were reported in children 6-11 years (Figure 10 and 
Table 19). 
Tabel 19 Severe Hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups – treatment emergent – 
summary – safety analysis set 
Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
The percentages of subjects experiencing nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were similar 
with IDegAsp (N= 101 [55.8%]) and IDet (N= 106 [59.2%]) as was the observed rates per 100 PYE 
(577 with IDegAsp and 540 with IDet). No statistically significant difference was observed between the 
treatment arms (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 1.09 [0.81; 1.48]95%CI); see Table 21. Approximately 90% of the 
subjects in both treatment groups reported 4 or fewer nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes 
during the trial. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 44/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20 Nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes by classification - treatment emergent - 
summary - safety analysis set 
Table 21 Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes - treatment emergent – statistical 
analysis - full analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 45/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11 Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent – mean 
cumulative function (upper panel: all subjects; lower panel: age groups) – safety analysis 
set 
Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes across age groups 
The rate of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes tended to increase with increasing age. 
Thus, the rate was higher in adolescents 12-17 years as compared to the overall trial population and 
lower in children 1 to 5 years. The higher rate in adolescents may be attributed to adolescent lifestyle. 
IDegAsp 
Nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes are summarised by age group in Table 22. The trend 
observed for the overall population in the IDegAsp treatment group was followed by all age groups 
with children 1-5 years having slightly lower rates (Figure 11). 
IDet 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 46/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trend observed for the overall population in the IDet treatment group was followed by all age 
groups with adolescents 12-17 years having slightly higher rates (Figure 11). 
Table 22 Nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes by classification and age group – treatment 
emergent – summary – safety summary set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 47/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes 
The number of nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes was low in both treatment groups, which 
precluded meaningful statistical analysis comparison between treatments (Table 20). 
Two (2) nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes in 1 subject was reported in the IDegAsp treatment 
group (children 6-11 years) and 2 episodes in 2 subjects was reported in the IDet treatment group (1 
subject in children 1-5 years and 1 subject in adolescents 12-17 years); see Table 20 and Table 22. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes according to ISPAD 
The rate of hypoglycaemic episodes according to the ISPAD 2009 classification was similar with 
IDegAsp and IDet (10651 and 10982 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively) (Table 14). The majority of 
the ISPAD classified episodes were documented symptomatic or asymptomatic episodes with a plasma 
glucose ≤ 3.9 mmol/L. The rate of nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes according to the ISPAD 2009 
classification was also similar with IDegAsp and IDet (1337 and 1261 episodes per 100 PYE, 
respectively) (Table 20).  
Hyperglycaemic episodes and ketosis 
According to the protocol, subjects were to report a hyperglycaemic episode whenever a glucose 
measurement was 14.0 mmol/L (250 mg/dL) or above, and the subject looked/felt ill. Subjects having 
a hyperglycaemic episode as described were to also measure ketone bodies. The ketone measurement 
involved an additional finger prick. Ketosis was considered present if blood ketones were higher than 
1.5 mmol/L. 
The percentages of subjects experiencing hyperglycaemic episodes were similar between IDegAsp (N= 
72 [39.8%]) and IDet (N= 73 [40.8%]) treatment groups. The observed rate of hyperglycaemic 
episodes per 100 PYE was 1094 with IDegAsp and 833 with IDet (Table 23). 
The percentages of subjects experiencing hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis (blood ketones > 1.5 
mmol/L) were numerically lower with IDegAsp (N= 4 [2.2%]) compared to IDet (N= 8 [4.5%]) (Table 
23). The rate per 100 PYE was 11 with IDegAsp and 22 with IDet. There were no statistically 
significant differences between treatment groups in the rates of hyperglycaemic episodes or 
hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis (Table 24). 
In order to assess the hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis in the trial, it has to be considered that 
many subjects did not measure ketone bodies as per protocol. Ketone bodies were measured for 
approximately 74% of hyperglycaemic episodes in the IDegAsp treatment group and for 67% in the 
IDet treatment group. This imbalance in ketone body measurement among groups would be expected 
to result in more ketosis episodes identified in the IDegAsp treatment group. However, less episodes of 
ketosis were reported in the IDegAsp treatment group than in the IDet treatment group (6 episodes in 
4 subjects with IDegAsp versus 12 episodes in 8 subjects with IDet), implying that the difference in 
episodes of ketosis in favour of IDegAsp might have been underestimated. 
Regarding subjects experiencing nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes, the percentages of subjects were 
similar between IDegAsp (N= 26 [14.4%]) compared to the IDet (N= 30 [16.8%]) treatment group. 
The respective rates per 100 PYE were 184 with IDegAsp and 98 with IDet (Table 12–23). 
Regarding nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis (blood ketones > 1.5 mmol/L), 1 episode in 
1 subject was reported with IDegAsp vs 2 episodes in 2 subjects with IDet (Table 23). No statistical 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 48/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
analysis was performed for nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes nor for nocturnal hyperglycaemic 
episodes with ketosis. 
Table 12–23 Hyperglycaemic episodes and episodes of ketosis – treatment emergent – summary - 
safety analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 49/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 24 Hyperglycaemic episodes – treatment emergent – statistical analysis – full analysis 
set 
Hyperglycaemic episodes across age groups 
IDegAsp 
Children 6-11 years had higher rate per 100 PYE (1751) of hyperglycaemic episodes compared to 
children 1-5 years (817) and adolescents 12-17 years (722). The number of hyperglycaemic episodes 
with ketosis was 3 in children 1-5 years, 1 in children 6-11 years and 2 in adolescents 12- 17 years 
(Table 25). 
The percentage of subjects with nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes was similar between age groups. 
The number of nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis was very low for all age groups. 
IDet 
Children 1-5 years had a higher rate per 100 PYE (955) of hyperglycaemic episodes compared to 
children 6-11 years (758) and adolescents 12-17 years (827). The number of hypoglycaemic episodes 
with ketosis was 4 in children 1-5 years, 3 in children 6-11 years and 5 in adolescents 12-17 years 
(Table 25). 
The percentage of subjects with nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes was similar between children 1-5 
years and children 6-11 years and slightly higher for the adolescents 12-17 years. The number of 
nocturnal hyperglycaemic episodes with ketosis was very low for all age groups. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 50/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25 Hyperglycaemic episodes and episodes of ketosis by age group – treatment 
emergent – summary - safety analysis set 
Clinical laboratory evaluation 
Laboratory values over time 
Mean biochemistry, haematology and lipids laboratory values remained stable during the trial, and 
there were no apparent differences between the two treatment groups in mean values or in mean 
change from baseline for these values. 
Individual subject changes 
The majority of subjects had only minor changes in biochemistry, haematology and lipid values levels 
throughout the trial. The majority of subjects’ values remained within the reference ranges at baseline 
and at the end of trial. Shifts in laboratory values from normal at baseline to high or low values 
occurred with a similar pattern in both treatment groups. In general, there was no difference between 
the treatment groups for any of the parameters and no clinically relevant concerns were raised.  
Vital signs, physical findings and other observations related to safety 
Vital signs 
At Week 16, the mean blood pressure (systolic/diastolic) and pulse were similar between the IDegAsp 
treatment group (106/66 mmHg and 83 beats/min) compared to the IDet treatment group (108/66 
mmHg and 82 beats/min); virtually unchanged from the mean baseline levels (visit 1). 
Physical examination 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 51/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of subjects had normal physical examination recordings at baseline and at Week 16 in 
both treatment groups.  
Weight 
Body weight was measured at screening, randomisation, week 12 and week 16 during the trial. 
As the trial population was heterogeneous with respect to age and country of origin, it was decided to 
include the SD score for body weight as an endpoint in order to be able to compare body weight across 
age groups and sex. To estimate the growth of children, standardised weight was calculated for each 
year of age and for each sex. Thus, a child with a weight equal to the mean value for its age and sex 
has an SD score of 0, while a child with a weight 2 SDs above the mean value for its age and sex has 
an SD score of +2. Standardised weight scores are often referred to as ‘Z-scores’ where 
standardisation is done by first subtracting the mean value and then dividing by the standard 
deviation. However, not all standardised scores are calculated as Z-scores. In Trial 3816, SD scores are 
calculated based on published data on weight distributions for the individual countries represented in 
the trial and these are in some cases calculated using other methods.  
Subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group had similar weight SD score at baseline to subjects in the 
IDet treatment group (means of 0.40 vs. 0.47). After 16 weeks, the mean weight SD score was 0.44 
with IDegAsp and 0.46 with IDet. During the treatment period, there was an increase in weight SD 
score of +0.06 in the IDegAsp treatment group and a decrease of -0.02 in the IDet treatment group, 
see Table 26, Figure 12. 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 52/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 26 Mean body weight and mean standard deviation (SD) score of weight, safety 
analysis set 
Figure 12 Standard deviation (SD) score for body weight – mean plot - safety analysis set 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 53/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis of change from baseline in weight SD score showed a statistically significant 
treatment difference (IDegAsp OD-IDet) 0.07 [0.02; 0.12]95% CI in favour of IDet (i.e., no increase in 
weight SD score) during the 16-week treatment period. The clinical significance of this difference is 
considered to be limited. 
Body weight SD scores across age groups 
IDegAsp 
The mean SD score increased from baseline to end of trial across all three groups (Table 26). 
IDet 
Treatment with IDet resulted in a small decrease in SD score in children 6-11 years while an almost 
unchanged SD score was observed in children 1-5 years and adolescents 12-17 years (Table 26). 
Further output for body weight and SD scores according to age groups are shown. 
Pregnancy 
There were no pregnancies reported during this trial.  
Technical complaints 
One (1) subject in the IDet treatment group reported 1 technical complaint related to 1 AE (‘device 
breakage’). 
Safety conclusions 
After 16 weeks of treatment with IDegAsp OD + IAsp or IDet + IAsp, the following can be concluded: 
Secondary endpoints 
•  Adverse events: The rate for AEs was 915 events per 100 PYE in the IDegAsp treatment group 
and 853 events per 100 PYE in the IDet treatment group. The majority of AEs were of mild or 
moderate severity in both treatment groups. Apart from hypoglycaemic episodes reported on 
the hypoglycaemic episode form, the most frequently reported AEs (>5%) in both treatment 
groups were ‘headache’,‘nasopharyngitis’, ‘abdominal pain upper’, ‘pyrexia’ and ‘vomiting’. The 
rate of AEs considered possibly or probably related to trial drug by the investigator was 
numerically higher with IDegAsp compared to IDet (47 vs. 37 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively). The most frequently reported AE assessed as possibly or probably related to trial 
drug was hypoglycaemia related AEs, where more events were reported in the IDegAsp 
treatment group (12 events in 11 subjects) compared to the IDet treatment group (3 events in 
2 subjects), followed by events in the gastrointestinal disorders SOC, where more events were 
reported as related to trial product in the IDet treatment group (5 events in 4 subjects with 
IDet and 0 events with IDegAsp). 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 54/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Deaths, serious adverse events and other significant adverse events: No deaths were reported 
in this trial. More subjects reported SAEs with IDegAsp than with IDet (6.1% vs. 3.9%) and 
the number of reported SAEs was low both with IDegAsp and IDet (14 events vs. 7 events, 
respectively). The rates of SAEs were generally low, however, numerically higher with IDegAsp 
compared to IDet (26 vs. 13 events per 100 PYE, respectively). For IDegAsp, the most 
frequently reported SAE included 5 events of ‘hypoglycaemia’ that were reported by 5 subjects 
compared with 1 event in 1 subject in the IDet treatment group. One (1) subject withdrew 
from the trial due to an AE in the IDegAsp treatment group (‘hypoglycaemic seizure’). 
Additionally, 1 subject withdrew due to “intermittent but recurrent hypoglycaemia attributed to 
trial product” in the IDet treatment group, reported under ‘other’ reasons for withdrawal. 
•  Medication errors: One (1) event of ‘overdose’ and 7 events of ‘wrong drug administered’ were 
reported in the IDegAsp treatment group. Two (2) episodes of ‘accidental overdose’, 1 event of 
‘drug dispensing error’ and 3 events of ‘wrong drug administered’ were reported in the IDet 
treatment group. All of the ‘wrong drug administered’ events were due to mix-up of insulins by 
the subjects’ carer. 
•  Confirmed hypoglycaemia: The observed rates of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were 
4623 and 4955 episodes per 100 PYE for IDegAsp and IDet, respectively, and there was no 
statistically significant difference between treatment arms (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 0.95 [0.76; 
1.17]95%CI). 
•  Severe hypoglycaemia: In the IDegAsp treatment group, 11 subjects (6.1%) reported 14 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes and in the IDet treatment group 3 subjects (1.7%) reported 4 
severe hypoglycaemic episodes. The observed rate of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was 
numerically higher with IDegAsp than with IDet (26 vs. 7 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively. 
There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 
3.20 [0.88; 11.66]95%CI). 
•  Nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes: The observed rates of nocturnal confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes were 577 and 540 episodes per 100 PYE for IDegAsp and IDet, respectively, and 
there was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 
1.09 [0.81; 1.48]95%CI). There were 2 nocturnal severe hypoglycaemic episodes in each 
treatment group. 
•  Hyperglycaemic episodes: There was no statistically significant difference between IDegAsp 
and IDet with respect to the rate of hyperglycaemic episodes (1.08 [0.64; 1.81]95%CI). The 
observed rate of hyperglycaemia episodes with ketosis was numerically lower with IDegAsp 
than with IDet (11 vs. 22 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively. There was no statistically 
significant difference between treatment groups (IDegAsp OD/IDet: 0.44 [0.11; 1.74]95%CI). 
•  Vital signs, physical examination and laboratory values: No clinically relevant differences from 
baseline to end of treatment or between the two treatment groups were observed for vital 
signs, physical examination and laboratory values. 
•  Body weight: During the treatment period, there was an increase in weight SD score of +0.06 
in the IDegAsp treatment group and a decrease of -0.02 in the IDet treatment group. 
Statistical analysis of change from baseline in weight SD score showed a statistically significant 
treatment difference in favour of IDet during the 16-week treatment period (IDegAsp OD-IDet: 
0.07 [0.02; 0.12]95% CI). 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 55/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
Insulin dose: The mean daily total (basal plus bolus) insulin dose after 16 weeks was 14% 
lower in the IDegAsp treatment group (0.88 units/kg) than in the IDet treatment group (1.01 
units/kg). The mean daily basal insulin dose after 16 weeks was 28% lower in the IDegAsp 
treatment group (0.36 units/kg) than in the IDet treatment group (0.49 units/kg). Daily bolus 
insulin dose was similar in the two treatment groups at week 16 (0.52 units/kg in both 
treatment groups). 
Assessor’s comments 
The rate of AEs related to trial drug was higher with IDegAsp compared to IDet (47 vs. 37 events per 
100 PYE, respectively). In this regard, the most frequently reported AE was hypoglycaemia related 
AEs, (12 events in 11 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 3 events in 2 subjects in the IDet 
treatment group). In addition, more subjects reported SAEs with IDegAsp than with IDet (6.1% vs. 
3.9%) and similarly the rates were higher with IDegAsp (26 vs. 13 events per 100 PYE, respectively). 
The most frequently reported SAE was events of ‘hypoglycaemia’  (5 in the IDegAsp group and 1 in the 
Idet group) There was no statistically significant difference between treatment arms regarding 
confirmed hypoglycaemia. The observed rate of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was numerically higher 
with IDegAsp than with IDet (26 vs. 7 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively and the rates of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were 577 and 540 episodes per 100 PYE for IDegAsp and IDet, 
respectively (NS). There was no significant difference between IDegAsp and IDet with respect to the 
rate of hyperglycaemic episodes or hyperglycaemia episodes with ketosis. No clinically relevant 
differences from baseline to end of treatment or between the two treatment groups were observed for 
vital signs, physical examination and laboratory values. During the treatment period, there was an 
increase in weight in the IDegAsp treatment group and a decrease in the IDet treatment group 
(IDegAsp OD-IDet: 0.07 [0.02; 0.12]95% CI). 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The present study:  A trial investigation the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/insulin aspart once 
daily plus insulin aspart for the remaining meals versus insulin detemir once or twice daily plus meal 
time insulin aspart in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus, is a stand-alone study 
that has been submitted in parallel with the two corresponding Article 46 submissions for NovoRapid 
and Ryzodeg. The study is part of the paediatric development programme for Ryzodeg but not for 
Levemir and Novorapid. The trial included 362 children and adolescents with T1DM aged from 1 year to 
less than 18 years. It is the first multiple-dose clinical trial of IDegAsp in a paediatric population and 
the first time IDegAsp is administered to children less than 6 years old. The trial consisted of a 16-
week treatment period with a 1-week follow-up period. It was designed and conducted in agreement 
with EMA (PDCO). The primary objective of the trial was to confirm the efficacy of IDegAsp 
administered OD plus meal-time IAsp for the remaining meals in controlling glycaemia with respect to 
change from baseline in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment. This was done by comparing the difference 
in change from baseline in HbA1c between IDegAsp + meal-time IAsp for the remaining meals and IDet 
+ meal-time IAsp to a non-inferiority limit of 0.4%, and if non-inferiority was confirmed, to a 
superiority limit of 0%. The study showed no differences in indices of glycaemic control, i.e. HbA1c, 
FPG, 8-point SMPG and 4 point SMPG, between the treatments groups and both treatments effectively 
maintained glycaemic control during the study period. Results from the full dataset were comparable to 
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 56/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
results obtained when stratified according to age groups. In terms of safety, the rate of AEs considered 
related to trial drug was higher with IDegAsp compared to IDet (47 vs. 37 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively). In this regard the most frequently reported AE was hypoglycaemia related AEs, (12 
events in 11 subjects in the IDegAsp treatment group and 3 events in 2 subjects in the IDet treatment 
group). In addition, more subjects reported SAEs with IDegAsp than with IDet (6.1% vs. 3.9%) and 
similarly the rates were higher with IDegAsp (26 vs. 13 events per 100 PYE, respectively). The most 
frequently reported SAE was events of ‘hypoglycaemia’ (5 in the IDegAsp group and 1 in the Idet 
group). There was no statistically significant difference between treatment arms regarding confirmed 
hypoglycaemia.  The observed rate of severe hypoglycaemic episodes was numerically higher with 
IDegAsp than with IDet (26 vs. 7 episodes per 100 PYE), respectively and the rates of nocturnal 
confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes were 577 and 540 episodes per 100 PYE for IDegAsp and IDet, 
respectively (NS). There was no significant difference between IDegAsp and IDet with respect to the 
rate of hyperglycaemic episodes or hyperglycaemia episodes with ketosis. No clinically relevant 
differences from baseline to end of treatment or between the two treatment groups were observed for 
vital signs, physical examination and laboratory values. During the treatment period, there was an 
increase in weight in the IDegAsp treatment group and a decrease in the IDet treatment group 
(IDegAsp OD-IDet: 0.07 [0.02; 0.12]95% CI). 
It can be concluded that in this paediatric population IDegAsp maintains glycaemic control to a similar 
extent as IDet and thereby is an alternative treatment. However, treatment with IDegAsp seems to be 
associated with an increased risk of hypoglycaemia compared to IDet and as noted by the MAH 
IDegAsp may not be suitable for all paediatric patients. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Based on the results of the paediatric trial assessed in this report, it is concluded that no regulatory 
consequences for the Marketing Authorisation for Levemir was identified and no further action is 
required 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
  Not fulfilled:  
EMA/469062/2015  
Page 57/57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
