London, 22 September 2011 
EMA/884675/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
International nonproprietary name: Levetiracetam  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2305 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 5 
.................................................................................. 5 
...................................................... 6 
Scientific discussion
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.2.1 
2.2.2 
2.2.3 
2.2.4 
2.2.5 
2.3 
2.3.1 
2.3.2 
2.4 
2.4.1 
2.4.2 
2.4.3 
2.5 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
Introduction
Quality aspects
Introduction
Active  Substance
Finished Medicinal Product
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects
............................................................................... 7 
..................................................................................................... 7 
................................................................................................. 8 
.................................................................................................. 8 
........................................................................................... 8 
............................................................................... 9 
......................................... 11 
.................... 11 
....................................................................................... 11 
................................................................................................ 11 
...................................................... 11 
............................................................................................... 12 
................................................................................................ 12 
............................................................................ 13 
.................................................... 13 
.......................................................................................... 13 
Clinical Aspects
Introduction
Post marketing experience
Discussion and conclusion on clinical aspects
Introduction
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Non- Clinical aspects
Pharmacovigilance
3 
4 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 14 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 15 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
alu – aluminium 
ANOVA- Analysis of variance 
ASMF – Active Substance Master File  
AUC0-t - area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time zero to the last measurable 
concentration 
AUC0-∞ - area under the plasma concentration versus time curve extrapolated to infinity 
BE – Bioequivalence 
BMI - Body Mass Index 
CHMP - Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
CI- Confidence interval 
Cmax - Maximum measured plasma concentration  
13C-NMR – Carbon-13 Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
EEA - European Economic Area 
EMA – European Medicines Agency 
EPAR – European Public Assessment Report 
ERA - Environmental Risk Assessment 
EU - European Union 
EWP - Efficacy Working Party 
FT-IR – Fourier Transform Infra-Red 
GC – Gas Chromatography 
GCP – Good Clinical Practice 
GMP - Good Manufacturing Practice 
1H-NMR – Proton (also Hydrogen-1) Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
HDPE – High Density Polyethylene 
HPLC – High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
ICH – International Conference on Harmonisation 
INN - International Nonproprietary Name 
IPC - In-process Control 
K el - Elimination rate constant 
LC-MS - Liquid Chromatography- Mass Spectroscopy 
LDPE – Low Density Polyethylene 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 3/15 
 
 
 
 
LOD - Limit of detection 
LOQ - Limit of quantitation 
MAH – Marketing Authorisation Holder 
mg – milligram 
ml - mililitre  
MS – Mass Spectroscopy  
N - number (of objects) 
Ph Eur - European Pharmacopoeia 
PK - Pharmacokinetics 
pKa – Acid dissociation constant (also acidity constant) 
PSUR – Periodic Safety Update Report 
PVC - Polyvinyl chloride  
QWP - Quality Working Party 
q.s. - Quantum sufficit (as much as suffices) 
RH – Relative Humidity 
RMP – Risk Management Plan 
SD - Standard deviation 
SmPC – Summary of Product Characteristics 
t1/2 - elimination or terminal half-life  
Tmax - time of maximum measured plasma concentration  
T/R ratio – Test product /Reference product ratio 
TSE/BSE Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy /Bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
UV – Ultraviolet 
XRD – X-ray diffraction 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Actavis Group PTC ehf submitted on  24 November 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Levetiracetam Actavis Group, through the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally 
authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 
24 June 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Levetiracetam Actavis Groupis indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Groupis indicated as adjunctive therapy 
•  in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
•  in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
•  in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study waiver with the reference medicinal product Keppra instead of non-clinical and 
clinical unless justified otherwise . 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250, 500, 750, 1000 mg Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma S.A. 
  Date of authorisation: 29/09/2000   
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/001-026, EU/1/00/146/028-029 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 100 mg/ml oral solution 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma S.A. 
  Date of authorisation: 3 March 2003 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/146/027 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Alar Irs 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 24 November 2010.  
The procedure started on 15 December 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 4 March 2011. 
  During the meeting 11-14 April 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
18 April 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 1 July 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting from 18-21 July 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 22 August 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 September 2011 (updated 16 September 2011). 
  During the meeting from 19-22 September 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a Marketing Authorisation to Levetiracetam Actavis Group on 22 September 2011. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group oral solution is a generic medicinal product containing levetiracetam as 
active substance. A 100 mg/ml strength has been developed. The reference medicinal product Keppra 
has been centrally authorized on 29 September 2000 and exists as film-coated tablets of 250 mg, 500 
mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg and as oral solution (100 mg/ml) and as concentrate for solution for infusion 
(100 mg/ml).  
Levetiracetam is a chemical entity related to piracetam, a nootropic drug. Initial research was directed 
primarily towards indications where piracetam and piracetam-like compounds had shown to be of 
potential benefit (cognition, anxiety disorders). When the particular antiepileptic profile of the drug was 
recognised, its development was oriented towards epilepsy as a new indication in 1991. 
The exact mechanism by which levetiracetam acts to treat epilepsy is unknown, however, the drug 
binds to a synaptic vesicle protein, SV2A which is believed to impede nerve conduction across 
synapses. Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of Epilepsy.  
The efficacy and safety of levetiracetam has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies. A 
summary of these studies can be found in th SmPC and EPAR of the reference product Keppra.  
According to the legislation the applicant shall not be required to provide the results of pre-clinical 
tests and clinical trials if he can demonstrate that the medicinal product is a generic of a reference 
product, which is authorised for 6/10 years in a EU member state or in the Community. As the 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 100 mg/ml oral solution is similar to the Keppra 100 mg/ml oral solution 
with regard to content of active substance and excipients, a bioequivalence study is not necessary, 
according to “Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence” (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98). The 
application contains adequate non-clinical and clinical data and the waiver of bioequivalence study has 
been justified.  
The indication proposed for Levetiracetam Actavis Group is identical to the indication of the reference 
medicinal product.  
The therapeutic indication of Levetiracetam Actavis Group is: 
Levetiracetam Actavis Groupis indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Groupis indicated as adjunctive therapy 
•  in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
•  in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
•  in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group oral solution is presented in 300 ml amber glass bottle with 10 ml 
graduated oral syringe, 300 ml amber glass bottle with 3 ml graduated oral syringe and an adaptor for 
the syringe and in 300 ml amber glass bottle with 1 ml graduated oral syringe and an adaptor for the 
syringe. The latter is different from the reference product which uses a 150 ml bottle but otherwise the 
proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use.  
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
The drug substance is levetiracetam a pyrrolidone derivative, an analog of piracetam and belongs to a 
class of antiepileptics. 
The product is supplied as an oral solution containing 100 mg/ml levetiracetam. The product will be 
marketed in 300 ml glass bottles with 3 types of graduated oral syringe. For a full list of excipients 
refer to the SmPC.  
2.2.2  Active  Substance 
The INN name of the active substance is levetiracetam and the chemical name is (S)-2-(2-
oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)butanamide. The molecular formula of active substance is C8H14N2O2 its relative
molecular mass 170.2 and its structural formula is shown below. 
A monograph for Levetiracetam is included in the European Pharmacopoeia that came into force since 
01.01.2011. 
Levetiracetam appears as a white to off-white non-hygroscopic powder, very soluble in water and 
soluble in methanol and in ethanol.  
Levetiracetam has one chiral center, hence exhibits stereoisomerism and exists in two  isomers i.e. R & 
S isomers. The manufacturing process of Levetiracetam followed the proposed active substance 
manufacturer produces consistently S-isomer. R-Isomer is being controlled to a limit by a validated 
method.  
Levetiracetam produced by the proposed active substance supplier is of crystalline form. The 
consistency of the form has been established by XRD on three consecutive batches. 
Manufacture 
The documentation on the active substance is presented using an Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure. The synthesis is described in sufficient detail. Critical steps and intermediates are presented 
in a satisfactory manner. Information regarding process validation has also been presented and is 
considered acceptable. Results were also presented to show that potentially genotoxic impurities or 
impurities originating from the starting materials do not carry over to the final active substance. 
Specification 
Levetiracetam is described in the last edition of the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.). The Ph. Eur. 
monograph specifications have been implemented by the finished product manufacturer, where 
applicable, to control of the active substance. The specification includes tests and limits for appearance 
(visual), solubility, appearance of solution (Ph.Eur.), identification (Ph. Eur., HPLC), enantiomeric 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
purity (Ph.Eur.), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), assay (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), 
sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.), heavy metals (Ph. Eur.), water content (Karl-Fischer), residual solvents (GC). 
Particle size is not considered to be a critical parameter for the active substance used in oral solution. 
Microbiological purity test is also of no special concern with the chemically synthesised active 
substance that is used in this liquid oral dosage form that contains antimicrobial preservatives. Hence 
the omission of testing particle size and microbiological purity from the active substance specifications 
are considered acceptable. 
In-house analytical procedures have been described and validated. Impurities have been evaluated and 
found to be acceptable from the safety viewpoint. 
The certificates of analysis of three/five commercial scale batches manufactured by the active 
substance manufacturer were enclosed to the Open Part of ASMF. All the results were well within the 
in-house and Ph. Eur. limits.  
Stability 
A large number of pilot and commercial scale batches have been studied under long-term (25 °C ± 2 
°C, 60 ± 5% RH) and accelerated conditions (40 °C ± 2 °C, 75 ± 5% RH).  
The results of six months accelerated stability data shows that there is no significant change in any of 
the parameters studied in any of these batches. 
The results of up to 36 months long-term stability data shows that there is no significant change in any 
of the parameters studied in any of these batches. 
No trends were observed in any of the four batches for the tested parameters either under the long-
term or accelerated conditions.  
Forced degradation studies are performed and the methods are found to be stability indicating. The 
active substance undergoes significant degradation when exposed to the stress of oxidative conditions, 
acid and base treatment. When exposed to water hydrolysis some degradation was observed. No 
degradation occurred when the drug substance was kept under the high temperature and UV 
irradiation at 254 nm conditions. 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the development was the formulation of a levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral solution 
comparable to the reference product Keppra, 100 mg/ml oral solution.  
The excipients chosen for the drug product are mainly based on evaluation of reference product 
composition and their quantity is within the common range observed for these formulations.  
All the excipients comply with the Ph. Eur., except for the Grape flavouring and Ammonium 
Glycyrrhizate Solution which comply with in-house specifications from the suppliers.  
Several formulations were prepared in order to optimize the pH, density and the taste of the drug 
product. A target pH and density similar to the references product were chosen. 
During the development the test for Uniformity of Mass of delivered Doses from Multidose Containers 
(Ph.Eur. 2.9.27) was carried out on oral syringes.  
The preservative efficacy has been tested in accordance with the EU-guideline: Excipients in the 
Dossier for Application for Marketing Authorisation of a Medicinal Product, CHMP/QWP/396951/06 and 
compliance with the Ph.Eur. test for preservative efficacy was demonstrated. The preservative efficacy 
has been demonstrated at the lower maximum concentration level for the current product.  
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The assay of levetiracetam, methylparahydroxybenzoate and propylparahydroxybenzoate, pH and 
density have been analysed before and after the filtration. No trends or out of specification results are 
observed. 
Adventitious agents 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 100 mg/ml oral solution does not contain any materials of human or 
animal origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is carried out in six steps including information about mixing and stirring 
times and temperatures, where necessary. Storage time for bulk solution is defined based on available 
stability data for bulk solution. The filter compatibility has been evaluated on the bulk product batches 
Reprocessing policy is defined and is in accordance with GMP. The in-process parameters controlled 
during the manufacture were presented. The process validation has been preformed on three 
consecutive pilot/production scale batches. The information and results presented in this regard are 
considered sufficient to ensure the robustness of the process. 
Product Specification  
The release and shelf-life specification have been presented for the finished product and include tests 
and limits for: appearance (visual inspection), clarity and colour of solution (Ph. Eur.), identification 
(HPLC, UV), pH (Ph. Eur.), density (Ph. Eur.), assay (levetiracetam, methylparaben and proplparaben 
HPLC), related substances (HPLC), microbial test (Ph. Eur.). Analytical procedures are described and 
validated.  
The batch analysis results are available for three pilot batches manufactured by the proposed 
manufacturer using the drug substance from the proposed supplier. All the results comply with the 
predetermined criteria. 
Stability of the product 
Three pilot batches stored at long term conditions (25°C ± 2°C/60 ± 5% RH), intermediate (30°C ± 
2°C /65 ± 5% RH) and accelerated conditions (40°C ± 2°C/75 ± 5%RH). Stability study results have 
been provided for up to 17 months stored at long term and intermediate conditions and for six months 
in accelerated conditions. All the tested parameters comply with the proposed specifications and there 
are no changes or trends observed at any of the tested parameters at the long term or at intermediate 
conditions. 
It is confirmed that the first three commercial batches will be added to the stability program. 
Thereafter, a minimum of one batch annually will be placed on stability in accordance with GMP. 
In-use stability 
In use stability studies have been performed on one batch stored under the long-term ICH storage 
conditions at 25°C/60%RH. The results are presented up to 120 days. 
All results are in compliance with the specification requirements. The proposed in use stability shelf life 
is agreed.  
Forced degradation study 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forced degradation study has been performed. Samples were stressed under acidic, basic, oxidative, 
photolytic and thermal conditions. Levetiracetam in drug product is stable in photolytic and thermal 
stress condition.  
The product was found stable at all the conditions but less under acidic and basic conditions. 
Both parabens were stable under photolytic conditions. Degradation to the higher extent was observed 
at basic and at thermal conditions. At acidic and oxidative conditions some small decrease in assay was 
seen. It can be concluded the product does not show any sensitivity to light. 
Based on the overall submitted data the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the 
SmPC are justified. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted.  This  was  justified  by  the  applicant  as  the 
introduction of Levetiracetam Actavis Group is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase 
in  the  combined  sales  volumes  for  all  levetiracetam  containing  products  and  the  exposure  of  the 
environment to  the  active  substance.  Thus,  the  Environmental Risk  is  expected  to  be  similar  and  not 
increased. The CHMP agreed with this justification.  
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This is an application for oral solution containing levetiracetam. The applicant provided a clinical 
overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as efficacy and safety of 
levetiracetam based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the reference 
product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 is of 
particular relevance. 
GCP 
Not applicable 
Exemption  
In accordance with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 
Rev.1., bioequivalence studies may be waived if the test product is an aqueous oral solution at time of 
administration and contains an active substance in the same concentration as an approved oral 
solution.  
In the composition of Levetiracetam Actavis Group the same excipient are used as in the reference 
product. The comparison of the respective compositions is provided below: 
Keppra 
Sodium citrate   
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Sodium citrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Methylparaben   
Propylparaben   
Maltitol liquid 
Glycerol 
Ammonium glycyrrhizate 
Acesulfame potassium   
Grape Flavour   
Purified water   
Methylparaben  
Propylparaben 
Maltitol liquid 
Glycerol 
Ammonium glycyrrhizate solution 
Acesulfame potassium 
Grape Flavour 
Purified water 
The CHMP considered that requirements for a bioequivalence study waiver are met. 
Clinical studies 
Not applicable 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.3  Discussion and conclusion on clinical aspects 
The CHMP considered that as Levetiracetam Actavis Group 100 mg/ml oral solution is similar to Keppra 
100 mg/ml oral solution with regard to content of active substance and excipients, a bioequivalence 
study is not necessary, in accordance with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application is 
based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk 
minimisation activities have been identified. 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities according to volume 9A of the NtA will be undertaken whilst the 
product is in the market, including careful review of individual case safety reports, literature review, 
signal detection procedures and generation of the required safety reports. Specific risk minimisation 
activities are not envisaged as the safety aspects of the product are well characterised and therefore a 
risk minimisation plan is not required. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 30 
November 2011. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of levetiracetam oral solution. The reference product 
Keppra is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Keppra is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
- in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, children 
and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
- in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years 
of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
No non-clinical studies have been provided for this generic application but an adequate summary of the 
available non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics or the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview 
on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The overall benefit-risk assessment is considered to be positive, since no new indication or population 
is claimed and reference is made to the innovator product for the benefits and risks of levetiracetam. 
Levetiracetam is considered a safe and effective antiepileptic drug with well established use for the 
treatment of various forms of epilepsy, this being supported by experience with marketed 
levetiracetam in a large number of patients. Thus, the CHMP considered there is sufficient support for 
concluding on a benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
4  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Levetiracetam Actavis Group as:  
“Monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
and adjunctive therapy: 
- 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy.  
- 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy.  
- 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy” 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable.  
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 30 November 2011. 
The PSUR of the reference medicinal product is on a yearly cycle. The PSUR submission schedule 
should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. Additionally, 6-monthly specific safety 
reports for children below 4 years of age in between the yearly PSURs have to be submitted, until 
otherwise decided by the CHMP.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Assessment report  
EMA/884675/2011  
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
