EMA/516521/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000528 
EPAR summary for the public 
Levemir 
insulin detemir 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Levemir. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Levemir. 
What is Levemir? 
Levemir is a solution for injection that contains the active substance insulin detemir. It is available in 
cartridges and in pre-filled pens.  
What is Levemir used for? 
Levemir is used to treat diabetes in adults, adolescents and children from the age of one year. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Levemir used? 
Levemir is given as an injection under the skin in the abdominal (tummy) wall, the thigh, the upper 
arm, the shoulder or the buttock. Levemir is a long-acting insulin. It can be used in the following ways: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
alone as basal insulin 
in combination with injections of a short- or rapid-acting insulin at mealtimes 
in combination with diabetes medicines taken by mouth 
in combination with a type of diabetes medicines called GLP-1 receptor agonists that are given by 
injection. When a GLP-1 receptor agonist is added to Levemir, the Levemir dose should be 
reduced, and subsequently adjusted according to the individual patient’s blood glucose levels. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Levemir can be given at any time of day, provided that it is the same time each day. The dose of 
Levemir should be adjusted according to the individual patient’s blood glucose (sugar) levels, which 
should be regularly tested to find the lowest effective dose. 
How does Levemir work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of blood 
glucose. Levemir is a replacement insulin that is very similar to the insulin made by the body. 
Insulin detemir is very slightly different from human insulin. The change means that it is absorbed 
more slowly by the body, and takes longer to reach its target in the body. This means that Levemir has 
a long duration of action. The replacement insulin acts in same way as naturally produced insulin and 
helps glucose enter cells from the blood. By controlling the level of blood glucose, the symptoms and 
complications of diabetes are reduced. 
How has Levemir been studied? 
Levemir has been studied in 1,575 adult patients with type 1 diabetes (when the pancreas cannot 
produce insulin) and over 2,500 adult patients with type 2 diabetes (when the body is unable to use 
insulin effectively). The studies compared Levemir with human insulin NPH (an intermediate-acting 
insulin) or insulin glargine (a long-acting insulin) given once or twice a day. Injections of fast-acting 
insulin were also used at mealtimes. In four of the six studies in type 2 diabetes, patients also received 
one or two antidiabetes medicines taken by mouth.  
Levemir has also been studied in two main studies involving 695 children and adolescents with 
diabetes aged 2-17 years in combination with insulin aspart and comparing it to insulin NPH.  
The effects of Levemir have also been studied in combination with metformin and liraglutide (a GLP-1 
receptor agonist). In one study, 323 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood glucose levels were not 
well controlled with metformin and liraglutide either received Levemir in addition to their treatment or 
continued on metformin and liraglutide alone.  
All of the studies measured the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin 
(HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. Levemir has not been 
studied in children below one year of age. 
What benefit has Levemir shown during the studies? 
The studies showed that Levemir controls blood glucose levels in a similar manner to insulin NPH, with 
less risk of low blood glucose levels during the night and no associated weight gain. In combination 
with diabetes medicines taken by mouth, Levemir also controlled blood glucose levels in a similar 
manner to insulin glargine. Patients using Levemir in combination with liraglutide and metformin 
achieved a decrease of 0.5% in Hb1Ac compared with no decrease in patients using liraglutide and 
metformin alone. Additionally the weight benefit from liraglutide was sustained when adding Levemir.  
What is the risk associated with Levemir? 
The most common side effect with Levemir (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia (low 
blood glucose levels). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Levemir, see the package 
leaflet. 
Levemir  
EMA/516521/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Levemir doses might need to be adjusted when given with some other medicines that may have an 
effect on blood glucose levels. The full list is available in the package leaflet. 
Why has Levemir been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Levemir’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Levemir? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Levemir is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Levemir, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Levemir: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Levemir on 1 June 2004.  
The full EPAR for Levemir can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Levemir, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Levemir  
EMA/516521/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
