ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL  PRODUCT 
Levetiracetam Hospira 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE  COMPOSITION 
Each ml contains 100 mg of levetiracetam. 
Each 5 ml vial contains 500 mg of levetiracetam. 
Excipient with known effect: 
Each vial contains 19 mg of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Levetiracetam Hospira is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults and adolescents from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed 
epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Hospira is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
• 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
adolescents and children from 4 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
• 
• 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate is an alternative for patients when oral administration is 
temporarily not feasible. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Levetiracetam therapy can be initiated with either intravenous or oral administration. 
Conversion to or from oral to intravenous administration can be done directly without titration. The 
total daily dose and frequency of administration should be maintained. 
Partial onset seizures 
The recommended dosing for monotherapy (from 16 years of age) and adjunctive therapy is the same; 
as outlined below. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All indications 
Adults (≥18 years) and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing 50 kg or more 
The initial therapeutic dose is 500 mg twice daily. This dose can be started on the first day of 
treatment. However, a lower initial dose of 250 mg twice daily may be given based on physician 
assessment  of seizure reduction versus potential side effects. This can be increased to 500 mg twice 
daily after two weeks. 
Depending upon the clinical response and tolerability, the daily dose can be increased up to 1,500 mg 
twice daily. Dose changes can be made in 250 mg or 500 mg twice daily increases or decreases every 
two to four weeks. 
Adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing below 50 kg and children from 4 years of age 
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate pharmaceutical form, presentation and strength 
according to weight, age and dose. Refer to Paediatric population section for dosing adjustments 
based on weight. 
Duration of treatment 
There is no experience with administration of intravenous levetiracetam for longer period than 4 days. 
Discontinuation 
If levetiracetam has to be discontinued it is recommended to withdraw it gradually (e.g. in adults and 
adolescents weighing more than 50 kg: 500 mg decreases twice daily every two to four weeks; in 
children and adolescents weighing less than 50 kg: dose decrease should not exceed 10 mg/kg twice 
daily every two weeks).  
Special populations 
Elderly (65 years and older) 
Adjustment of the dose is recommended in elderly patients with compromised renal function (see 
“Renal impairment” below). 
Renal impairment 
The daily dose must be individualised according to renal function. 
For adult patients, refer to the following table and adjust the dose as indicated. To use this dosing 
table, an estimate of the patient's creatinine clearance (CLcr) in ml/min is needed. The CLcr in ml/min 
may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dl) determination, for adults and adolescents weighing 
50 kg or more, the following formula: 
CLcr (ml/min) = ----------------------------------------- (x 0.85 for women) 
[140-age (years)] x weight (kg) 
72 x serum creatinine (mg/dl) 
Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: 
CLcr (ml/min/1.73 m2) = ---------------------------- x 1.73 
BSA subject (m2) 
CLcr (ml/min) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosing adjustment for adult and adolescent patients weighing more than 50 kg with impaired renal 
function: 
Group 
Dose and frequency 
Creatinine clearance 
(ml/min/1.73m2) 
≥ 80 
50-79 
30-49 
< 30 
- 
Normal 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
End-stage renal disease 
patients undergoing dialysis(1) 
(1) A 750 mg loading dose is recommended on the first day of treatment with levetiracetam. 
(2) Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. 
500 to 1,500 mg twice daily 
500 to 1,000 mg twice daily 
250 to 750 mg twice daily 
250 to 500 mg twice daily 
500 to 1,000 mg once daily(2) 
For children with renal impairment, levetiracetam dose needs to be adjusted based on the renal 
function as levetiracetam clearance is related to renal function. This recommendation is based on a 
study in adult renally impaired patients. 
The CLcr in ml/min/1.73 m2 may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dl) determination, for young 
adolescents and children using the following formula (Schwartz formula): 
CLcr (ml/min/1.73 m2) = ------------------------------------ 
Serum Creatinine (mg/dl) 
Height (cm) x ks 
ks= 0.55 in Children to less than 13 years and in adolescent female; ks= 0.7 in adolescent male 
Dosing adjustment for children and adolescent patients weighing less than 50 kg with impaired renal 
function: 
Group 
Creatinine clearance 
(ml/min/1.73 m2) 
Normal 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
≥ 80 
50-79 
30-49 
< 30 
-- 
Dose and frequency 
Children from 4 years and adolescents 
weighing less than 50 kg 
10 to 30 mg/kg (0.10 to 0.30 ml/kg) twice 
daily 
10 to 20 mg/kg (0.10 to 0.20 ml/kg) twice 
daily 
5 to 15 mg/kg (0.05 to 0.15 ml/kg) twice 
daily 
5 to 10 mg/kg (0.05 to 0.10 ml/kg) twice 
daily 
10 to 20 mg/kg (0.10 to 0.20 ml/kg) once 
daily (1) (2) 
End-stage renal disease 
patients undergoing dialysis 
(1) 
 A 15 mg/kg (0.15 ml/kg) loading dose is recommended on the first day of treatment with 
levetiracetam. 
 Following dialysis, a 5 to 10 mg/kg (0.05 to 0.10 ml/kg) supplemental dose is recommended. 
(2) 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. In patients with 
severe hepatic impairment, the creatinine clearance may underestimate the renal insufficiency. 
Therefore a 50% reduction of the daily maintenance dose is recommended when the creatinine 
clearance is < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2. 
Paediatric population 
The physician should prescribe the most appropriate pharmaceutical form, presentation and strength 
according to age, weight and dose. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monotherapy 
The safety and efficacy of levetiracetam in children and adolescents below 16 years as monotherapy 
treatment have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Adolescents (16 and 17 years of age) weighing 50 kg or more with partial onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation with newly diagnosed epilepsy 
Please refer to the above section on Adults (≥18 years) and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing 
50 kg or more. 
Add-on therapy for children aged 4 to 11 years and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing less than 
50 kg 
The initial therapeutic dose is 10 mg/kg twice daily. 
Depending upon the clinical response and tolerability, the dose can be increased up to 30 mg/kg twice 
daily. Dose changes should not exceed increases or decreases of 10 mg/kg twice daily every two 
weeks. The lowest effective dose should be used for all indications. 
Dose in children 50 kg or greater is the same as in adults for all indications. 
Please refer to the above section on Adults (≥18 years) and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing 
50 kg or more for all indications. 
Dose recommendations for children and adolescents: 
Weight 
15 kg(1) 
20 kg(1) 
25 kg 
From 50 kg(2) 
(1) Children 25 kg or less should preferably start the treatment with levetiracetam 100 mg/ml oral 
solution. 
(2) Dose in children and adolescents 50 kg or more is the same as in adults. 
Maximum dose: 
30 mg/kg twice daily 
450 mg twice daily 
600 mg twice daily 
750 mg twice daily 
1,500 twice daily 
Starting dose: 
10 mg/kg twice daily 
150 mg twice daily 
200 mg twice daily 
250 mg twice daily 
500 mg twice daily 
Add-on therapy for infants and children less than 4 years 
The safety and efficacy of Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion in infants and 
children less than 4 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate is for intravenous use only and the recommended dose must be 
diluted in at least 100 ml of a compatible diluent and administered intravenously as a 15-minute 
intravenous infusion (see section 6.6). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or other pyrrolidone derivatives or to any of the excipients 
listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Renal impairment 
The administration of levetiracetam to patients with renal impairment may require dose adjustment. In 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with severely impaired hepatic function, assessment of renal function is recommended before 
dose selection (see section 4.2). 
Acute kidney injury 
The use of levetiracetam has been very rarely associated with acute kidney injury, with a time to onset 
ranging from a few days to several months.  
Blood cell counts 
Rare cases  of decreased blood cell counts (neutropenia, agranulocytosis, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
and pancytopenia) have been described in association with levetiracetam administration, generally at 
the beginning of the treatment. Complete blood cell counts are advised in patients experiencing 
important weakness, pyrexia, recurrent infections or coagulation disorders (section 4.8). 
Suicide 
Suicide, suicide attempt, suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with 
anti-epileptic agents (including levetiracetam). A meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled 
trials of anti-epileptic medicinal products has shown a small increased risk of suicidal thoughts and 
behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known. 
Therefore patients should be monitored for signs of depression and/or suicidal ideation and behaviours 
and appropriate treatment should be considered. Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised 
to seek medical advice should signs of depression and/or suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge. 
Abnormal and aggressive behaviours  
Levetiracetam may cause psychotic symptoms and behavioural abnormalities including irritability and 
aggressiveness. Patients treated with levetiracetam should be monitored for developing psychiatric 
signs suggesting important mood and/or personality changes. If such behaviours are noticed, treatment 
adaptation or gradual discontinuation should be considered. If discontinuation is considered, please 
refer to section 4.2. 
Worsening of seizures 
As with other types of antiepileptic drugs, levetiracetam may rarely exacerbate seizure frequency or 
severity. This paradoxical effect was mostly reported within the first month after levetiracetam 
initiation or increase of the dose and was reversible upon drug discontinuation or dose decrease. 
Patients should be advised to consult their physician immediately in case of aggravation of 
epilepsy. Lack of efficacy or seizure worsening has for example been reported in patients with 
epilepsy associated with sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 8 (SCN8A) mutations. 
Electrocardiogram QT interval prolongation 
Rare cases  of ECG QT interval prolongation have been observed during the post-marketing 
surveillance. Levetiracetam should be used with caution in patients with QTc-interval prolongation, in 
patients concomitantly treated with drugs affecting the QTc-interval, or in patients with relevant pre-
existing cardiac disease or electrolyte disturbances. 
Paediatric population 
Available data in children did not suggest impact on growth and puberty. However, long term effects 
on learning, intelligence, growth, endocrine function, puberty and childbearing potential in children 
remain unknown. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 19 mg of sodium per vial. The maximum single dose (corresponding 
to 1,500 mg levetiracetam) contains 57 mg of sodium, equivalent to 2.85% of the WHO maximum 
recommended daily intake (RDI) of 2 g sodium for an adult. To be taken into consideration by patients 
on a controlled sodium diet. 
This medicinal product may be diluted with sodium-containing solutions (see section 4.2) and this 
should be considered in relation to the total sodium from all sources that will be administered to the 
patient. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Antiepileptic medicinal products 
Pre-marketing data from clinical studies conducted in adults indicate that levetiracetam did not 
influence the serum concentrations of existing antiepileptic medicinal products (phenytoin, 
carbamazepine, valproic acid, phenobarbital, lamotrigine, gabapentin and primidone) and that these 
antiepileptic medicinal products did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. 
As in adults, there is no evidence of clinically significant medicinal product interactions in paediatric 
patients receiving up to 60 mg/kg/day levetiracetam. 
A retrospective assessment of pharmacokinetic interactions in children and adolescents with epilepsy 
(4 to 17 years) confirmed that adjunctive therapy with orally administered levetiracetam did not 
influence the steady-state serum concentrations of concomitantly administered carbamazepine and 
valproate. However, data suggested a 20% higher levetiracetam clearance in children taking enzyme-
inducing antiepileptic medicinal products. Dose adjustment is not required. 
Probenecid 
Probenecid (500 mg four times daily), a renal tubular secretion blocking agent, has been shown to 
inhibit the renal clearance of the primary metabolite, but not of levetiracetam. Nevertheless, the 
concentration of this metabolite remains low.  
Methotrexate 
Concomitant administration of levetiracetam and methotrexate has been reported to decrease 
methotrexate clearance, resulting in increased/prolonged blood methotrexate concentration to 
potentially toxic levels. Blood methotrexate and levetiracetam levels should be carefully monitored in 
patients treated concomitantly with the two drugs. 
Oral contraceptives and other pharmacokinetics interactions 
Levetiracetam 1,000 mg daily did not influence the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives (ethinyl-
estradiol and levonorgestrel); endocrine parameters (luteinizing hormone and progesterone) were not 
modified. Levetiracetam 2,000 mg daily did not influence the pharmacokinetics of digoxin and 
warfarin; prothrombin times were not modified. Co-administration with digoxin, oral contraceptives 
and warfarin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. 
Alcohol 
No data on the interaction of levetiracetam with alcohol are available. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of child bearing potential 
Specialist advice should be given to women who are of childbearing potential. Treatment with 
levetiracetam should be reviewed when a woman is planning to become pregnant. As with all 
antiepileptic medicines, sudden discontinuation of levetiracetam should be avoided as this may lead to 
breakthrough seizures that could have serious consequences for the woman and the unborn child. 
Monotherapy should be preferred whenever possible because therapy with multiple antiepileptic 
medicines AEDs could be associated with a higher risk of congenital malformations than 
monotherapy, depending on the associated antiepileptics. 
Pregnancy  
A large amount of post-marketing data on pregnant women exposed to levetiracetam monotherapy 
(more than 1,800, among which in more than 1,500 exposure occurred during the 1st trimester) do not 
suggest an increase in the risk for major congenital malformations. Only limited evidence is available 
on the neurodevelopment of children exposed to levetiracetam monotherapy in utero. However, 
current epidemiological studies (on about 100 children) do not suggest an increased risk of 
neurodevelopmental disorders or delays.  
Levetiracetam can be used during pregnancy, if after careful assessment it is considered clinically 
needed. In such case, the lowest effective dose is recommended.  
Physiological changes during pregnancy may affect levetiracetam concentration. Decrease in 
levetiracetam plasma concentrations has been observed during pregnancy. This decrease is more 
pronounced during the third trimester (up to 60% of baseline concentration before pregnancy). 
Appropriate clinical management of pregnant women treated with levetiracetam should be ensured.  
Breastfeeding  
Levetiracetam is excreted in human breast milk. Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended. 
However, if levetiracetam treatment is needed during breastfeeding, the benefit/risk of the treatment 
should be weighed considering the importance of breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
No impact on fertility was detected in animal studies (see section 5.3). No clinical data are available, 
potential risk for human is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Levetiracetam has minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Due to 
possible different individual sensitivity, some patients might experience somnolence or other central 
nervous system related symptoms, especially at the beginning of treatment or following a dose 
increase. Therefore, caution is recommended in those patients when performing skilled tasks, e.g. 
driving vehicles or operating machinery. Patients are advised not to drive or use machines until it is 
established that their ability to perform such activities is not affected. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were nasopharyngitis, somnolence, headache, fatigue 
and dizziness. The adverse reaction profile presented below is based on the analysis of pooled 
placebo-controlled clinical trials with all indications studied, with a total of 3,416 patients treated with 
levetiracetam. These data are supplemented with the use of levetiracetam in corresponding open-label 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
extension studies, as well as post-marketing experience. The safety profile of levetiracetam is 
generally similar across age groups (adult and paediatric patients) and across the approved epilepsy 
indications. Since there was limited exposure for levetiracetam intravenous use and since oral and 
intravenous formulations are bioequivalent, the safety information of levetiracetam intravenous will 
rely on levetiracetam oral use. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in clinical studies (adults, adolescents, children and infants > 1 month) and 
from post-marketing experience are listed in the following table per System Organ Class and per 
frequency. Adverse reactions are presented in the order of decreasing seriousness and their frequency 
is defined as follows: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) and very rare (<1/10,000). 
Very 
common 
Nasopharyng
itis 
MedDRA SOC 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Frequency category 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Infection 
Pancytopenia, 
neutropenia, 
agranulocytosis 
Drug reaction 
with 
eosinophilia and 
systemic 
symptoms 
(DRESS), 
Hypersensitivity 
(including 
angioedema and 
anaphylaxis) 
Hyponatraemia 
Completed 
suicide, 
personality 
disorder, 
thinking 
abnormal, 
delirium 
Obsessive 
compulsive 
disorder** 
Thrombocytopeni
a, leukopenia 
Anorexia 
Depression, 
hostility/ 
aggression, 
anxiety, insomnia, 
nervousness/irrita
bility 
Weight decreased, 
weight increase 
Suicide attempt, 
suicidal ideation, 
psychotic 
disorder, 
abnormal 
behaviour, 
hallucination, 
anger, confusional 
state, panic attack, 
affect 
lability/mood 
swings, agitation 
9 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA SOC 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Somnolence, 
headache 
Eye disorders 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Renal and 
Urinary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Frequency category 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Amnesia, memory 
impairment, 
coordination 
abnormal/ataxia, 
paraesthesia, 
disturbance in 
attention 
Diplopia, vision 
blurred 
Choreoathetosis, 
dyskinesia, 
hyperkinesia, 
gait disturbance, 
encephalopathy, 
seizures 
aggravated, 
Neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome* 
Electrocardiogra
m QT prolonged 
Pancreatitis 
Convulsion, 
balance disorder, 
dizziness, 
lethargy, tremor 
Vertigo 
Cough 
Abdominal pain, 
diarrhoea, 
dyspepsia, 
vomiting, nausea 
Liver function test 
abnormal 
Hepatic failure, 
hepatitis 
Rash 
Alopecia, eczema, 
pruritus 
Muscular 
weakness, 
myalgia 
Acute kidney 
injury 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
erythema 
multiforme 
Rhabdomyolysis 
and blood 
creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased* 
Asthenia/fatigue 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
* Prevalence is significantly higher in Japanese patients when compared to non-Japanese patients. 
Injury 
10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
**Very rare cases of development of obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD) in patients with 
underlying history of OCD or psychiatric disorders have been observed in post-marketing surveillance. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The risk of anorexia is higher when levetiracetam is co-administered with topiramate.  
In several cases  of alopecia, recovery was observed when levetiracetam was discontinued. 
Bone marrow suppression was identified in some of the cases of pancytopenia. 
Cases  of encephalopathy generally occurred at the beginning of the treatment (few days to a few 
months) and were reversible after treatment discontinuation. 
Paediatric population 
In patients aged 1 month to less than 4 years, a total of 190 patients have been treated with 
levetiracetam in placebo-controlled and open label extension studies. Sixty of these patients were 
treated with levetiracetam in placebo-controlled studies. In patients aged 4-16 years, a total of 
645 patients have been treated with levetiracetam in placebo-controlled and open label extension 
studies. 233 of these patients were treated with levetiracetam in placebo-controlled studies. In both 
these paediatric age ranges, these data are supplemented with the post-marketing experience of the use 
of levetiracetam. 
In addition, 101 infants aged less than 12 months have been exposed in a post authorization safety 
study. No new safety concerns for levetiracetam were identified for infants less than 12 months of age 
with epilepsy.  
The adverse reaction profile of levetiracetam is generally similar across age groups and across the 
approved epilepsy indications. Safety results in paediatric patients in placebo-controlled clinical 
studies were consistent with the safety profile of levetiracetam in adults except for behavioural and 
psychiatric adverse reactions which were more common in children than in adults. In children and 
adolescents aged 4 to 16 years, vomiting (very common, 11.2%), agitation (common, 3.4%), mood 
swings (common, 2.1%), affect lability (common, 1.7%), aggression (common, 8.2%), abnormal 
behaviour (common, 5.6%), and lethargy (common, 3.9%) were reported more frequently than in other 
age ranges or in the overall safety profile. In infants and children aged 1 month to less than 4 years, 
irritability (very common, 11.7%) and coordination abnormal (common, 3.3%) were reported more 
frequently than in other age groups or in the overall safety profile. 
A double-blind, placebo-controlled paediatric safety study with a non-inferiority design has assessed 
the cognitive and neuropsychological effects of levetiracetam in children 4 to 16 years of age with 
partial onset seizures. It was concluded that levetiracetam was not different (non-inferior) from 
placebo with regard to the change from baseline of the Leiter-R Attention and Memory, Memory 
Screen Composite score in the per-protocol population. Results related to behavioural and emotional 
functioning indicated a worsening in levetiracetam treated patients on aggressive behaviour as 
measured in a standardised and systematic way using a validated instrument (CBCL – Achenbach 
Child Behaviour Checklist). However, subjects, who took levetiracetam in the long-term open label 
follow-up study, did not experience a worsening, on average, in their behavioural and emotional 
functioning; in particular measures of aggressive behaviour were not worse than baseline. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Somnolence, agitation, aggression, depressed level of consciousness, respiratory depression and coma 
were observed with levetiracetam overdoses. 
Management of overdose 
There is no specific antidote for levetiracetam. Treatment of an overdose will be symptomatic and may 
include haemodialysis. The dialyser extraction efficiency is 60% for levetiracetam and 74% for the 
primary metabolite. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX14. 
The active substance, levetiracetam, is a pyrrolidone derivative (S-enantiomer of 
α-ethyl-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine acetamide), chemically unrelated to existing antiepileptic active 
substances. 
Mechanism of action 
The mechanism of action of levetiracetam still remains to be fully elucidated. In vitro and in vivo 
experiments suggest that levetiracetam does not alter basic cell characteristics and normal 
neurotransmission. 
In vitro studies show that levetiracetam affects intraneuronal Ca2+ levels by partial inhibition of N-type 
Ca2+ currents and by reducing the release of Ca2+ from intraneuronal stores. In addition, it partially 
reverses the reductions in GABA- and glycine-gated currents induced by zinc and β-carbolines. 
Furthermore, levetiracetam has been shown in in vitro studies to bind to a specific site in rodent brain 
tissue. This binding site is the synaptic vesicle protein 2A, believed to be involved in vesicle fusion 
and neurotransmitter exocytosis. Levetiracetam and related analogues show a rank order of affinity for 
binding to the synaptic vesicle protein 2A which correlates with the potency of their anti-seizure 
protection in the mouse audiogenic model of epilepsy. This finding suggests that the interaction 
between levetiracetam and the synaptic vesicle protein 2A seems to contribute to the antiepileptic 
mechanism of action of the medicinal product. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Levetiracetam induces seizure protection in a broad range of animal models of partial and primary 
generalised seizures without having a pro-convulsant effect. The primary metabolite is inactive. 
In man, an activity in both partial and generalised epilepsy conditions (epileptiform 
discharge/photoparoxysmal response) has confirmed the broad spectrum pharmacological profile of 
levetiracetam. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation 
in adults, adolescents and children from 4 years of age with epilepsy. 
In adults, levetiracetam efficacy has been demonstrated in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled studies 
at 1,000 mg, 2,000 mg, or 3,000 mg/day, given in 2 divided doses, with a treatment duration of up to 
18 weeks. In a pooled analysis, the percentage of patients who achieved 50% or greater reduction from 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
baseline in the partial onset seizure frequency per week at stable dose (12/14 weeks) was of 27.7%, 
31.6% and 41.3% for patients on 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000 mg levetiracetam respectively and of 12.6% for 
patients on placebo. 
Paediatric population 
In paediatric patients (4 to 16 years of age), levetiracetam efficacy was established in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study, which included 198 patients and had a treatment duration of 14 weeks. In 
this study, the patients received levetiracetam as a fixed dose of 60 mg/kg/day (with twice a day 
dosing). 
44.6% of the levetiracetam treated patients and 19.6% of the patients on placebo had a 50% or greater 
reduction from baseline in the partial onset seizure frequency per week. With continued long-term 
treatment, 11.4% of the patients were seizure-free for at least 6 months and 7.2% were seizure-free for 
at least 1 year. 
35 infants aged less  than 1 year with partial onset seizures have been exposed in placebo-control 
clinical studies of which only 13 were aged < 6 months. 
Monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures  with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Efficacy of levetiracetam as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, non-
inferiority comparison to carbamazepine-controlled release (CR) in 576 patients 16 years of age or 
older with newly or recently diagnosed epilepsy. The patients had to present with unprovoked partial 
seizures or with generalized tonic-clonic seizures only. The patients were randomized to 
carbamazepine CR 400-1,200 mg/day or levetiracetam 1,000-3,000 mg/day, the duration of the 
treatment was up to 121 weeks depending on the response. 
Six-month seizure freedom was achieved in 73.0% of levetiracetam-treated patients and 72.8% of 
carbamazepine-CR treated patients; the adjusted absolute difference between treatments was 0.2% 
(95% CI: -7.8 8.2). More than half of the subjects remained seizure free for 12 months (56.6% and 
58.5% of subjects on levetiracetam and on carbamazepine CR respectively). 
In a study reflecting clinical practice, the concomitant antiepileptic medication could be withdrawn in 
a limited number of patients who responded to levetiracetam adjunctive therapy (36 adult patients out 
of 69). 
Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of myoclonic seizures  in adults and adolescents from 12 years  of 
age with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam efficacy was established in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 16 weeks 
duration, in patients 12 years of age and older suffering from idiopathic generalized epilepsy with 
myoclonic seizures in different syndromes. The majority of patients presented with juvenile myoclonic 
epilepsy. 
In this study, levetiracetam, dose was 3,000 mg/day given in 2 divided doses. 58.3% of the 
levetiracetam treated patients and 23.3% of the patients on placebo had at least a 50% reduction in 
myoclonic seizure days per week. With continued long-term treatment, 28.6% of the patients were free 
of myoclonic seizures for at least 6 months and 21.0% were free of myoclonic seizures for at least 
1 year. 
Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and 
adolescents from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam efficacy was established in a 24-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study which 
included adults, adolescents and a limited number of children suffering from idiopathic generalized 
epilepsy with primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures in different syndromes (juvenile 
myoclonic epilepsy, juvenile absence epilepsy, childhood absence epilepsy, or epilepsy with Grand 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mal seizures on awakening). In this study, levetiracetam dose was 3,000 mg/day for adults and 
adolescents or 60 mg/kg/day for children, given in 2 divided doses. 
72.2% of the levetiracetam treated patients and 45.2% of the patients on placebo had a 50% or greater 
decrease in the frequency of PGTC seizures per week. With continued long-term treatment, 47.4% of 
the patients were free of tonic-clonic seizures for at least 6 months and 31.5% were free of tonic-clonic 
seizures for at least 1 year. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic profile has been characterized following oral administration. A single dose of 
1,500 mg levetiracetam diluted in 100 ml of a compatible diluent and infused intravenously over 
15 minutes is bioequivalent to 1,500 mg levetiracetam oral intake, given as three 500 mg tablets. 
The intravenous administration of doses up to 4,000 mg diluted in 100 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride 
infused over 15 minutes and doses up to 2,500 mg diluted in 100 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride infused 
over 5 minutes was evaluated. The pharmacokinetic and safety profiles did not identify any safety 
concerns. 
Levetiracetam is a highly soluble and permeable compound. The pharmacokinetic profile is linear with 
low intra- and inter-subject variability. There is no modification of the clearance after repeated 
administration. The time independent pharmacokinetic profile of levetiracetam was also confirmed 
following 1,500 mg intravenous infusion for 4 days with twice daily dosing. 
There is no evidence for any relevant gender, race or circadian variability. The pharmacokinetic profile 
is comparable in healthy volunteers and in patients with epilepsy. 
Adults and adolescents 
Distribution 
Peak plasma concentration (Cmax) observed in 17 subjects following a single intravenous dose of 
1,500 mg infused over 15 minutes was 51 ± 19 micrograms/ml (arithmetic average ± standard 
deviation). 
No tissue distribution data are available in humans. 
Neither levetiracetam nor its primary metabolite are significantly bound to plasma proteins (< 10%). 
The volume of distribution of levetiracetam is approximately 0.5 to 0.7 l/kg, a value close to the total 
body water volume. 
Biotransformation 
Levetiracetam is not extensively metabolised in humans. The major metabolic pathway (24% of the 
dose) is an enzymatic hydrolysis of the acetamide group. Production of the primary metabolite, ucb 
L057, is not supported by liver cytochrome P450 isoforms. Hydrolysis of the acetamide group was 
measurable in a large number of tissues including blood cells. The metabolite ucb L057 is 
pharmacologically inactive. 
Two minor metabolites were also identified. One was obtained by hydroxylation of the pyrrolidone 
ring (1.6% of the dose) and the other one by opening of the pyrrolidone ring (0.9% of the dose). Other 
unidentified components accounted only for 0.6% of the dose. 
No enantiomeric interconversion was evidenced in vivo for either levetiracetam or its primary 
metabolite. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro, levetiracetam and its primary metabolite have been shown not to inhibit the major human liver 
cytochrome P450 isoforms (CYP3A4, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 1A2), glucuronyl transferase 
(UGT1A1 and UGT1A6) and epoxide hydroxylase activities. In addition, levetiracetam does not affect 
the in vitro glucuronidation of valproic acid. 
In human hepatocytes in culture, levetiracetam had little or no effect on CYP1A2, SULT1E1 or 
UGT1A1. Levetiracetam caused mild induction of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4. The in vitro data and in 
vivo interaction data on oral contraceptives, digoxin and warfarin indicate that no significant enzyme 
induction is expected in vivo. Therefore, the interaction of levetiracetam with other substances, or vice 
versa, is unlikely. 
Elimination 
The plasma half-life in adults was 7±1 hours and did not vary either with dose, route of administration 
or repeated administration. The mean total body clearance was 0.96 ml/min/kg. 
The major route of excretion was via urine, accounting for a mean 95% of the dose (approximately 
93% of the dose was excreted within 48 hours). Excretion via faeces accounted for only 0.3% of the 
dose. 
The cumulative urinary excretion of levetiracetam and its primary metabolite accounted for 66% and 
24% of the dose, respectively during the first 48 hours. 
The renal clearance of levetiracetam and ucb L057 is 0.6 and 4.2 ml/min/kg respectively indicating 
that levetiracetam is excreted by glomerular filtration with subsequent tubular reabsorption and that the 
primary metabolite is also excreted by active tubular secretion in addition to glomerular filtration. 
Levetiracetam elimination is correlated to creatinine clearance. 
Elderly 
In the elderly, the half-life is increased by about 40% (10 to 11 hours). This is related to the decrease 
in renal function in this population (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
The apparent body clearance of both levetiracetam and of its primary metabolite is correlated to the 
creatinine clearance. It is therefore recommended to adjust the maintenance daily dose of 
levetiracetam, based on creatinine clearance in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment 
(see section 4.2). 
In anuric end-stage renal disease adult subjects the half-life was approximately 25 and 3.1 hours 
during interdialytic and intradialytic periods, respectively. 
The fractional removal of levetiracetam was 51% during a typical 4-hour dialysis session. 
Hepatic impairment 
In subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, there was no relevant modification of the 
clearance of levetiracetam. In most subjects with severe hepatic impairment, the clearance of 
levetiracetam was reduced by more than 50% due to a concomitant renal impairment (see section 4.2). 
Paediatric population 
Children (4 to 12 years) 
The pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients has not been investigated after intravenous administration. 
However, based on the pharmacokinetic characteristics of levetiracetam, the pharmacokinetics in 
adults after intravenous administration and the pharmacokinetics in children after oral administration, 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the exposure (AUC) of levetiracetam is expected to be similar in paediatric patients aged 4 to 12 years 
after intravenous and oral administration. 
Following single oral dose administration (20 mg/kg) to epileptic children (6 to 12 years), the half-life 
of levetiracetam was 6.0 hours. The apparent body weight adjusted clearance was approximately 30% 
higher than in epileptic adults. 
Following repeated oral dose administration (20 to 60 mg/kg/day) to epileptic children (4 to 12 years), 
levetiracetam was rapidly absorbed. Peak plasma concentration was observed 0.5 to 1.0 hour after 
dosing. Linear and dose proportional increases were observed for peak plasma concentrations and area 
under the curve. The elimination half-life was approximately 5 hours. The apparent body clearance 
was 1.1 ml/min/kg. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, genotoxicity and carcinogenic potential. 
Adverse effects not observed in clinical studies but seen in the rat and to a lesser extent in the mouse at 
exposure levels similar to human exposure levels and with possible relevance for clinical use were 
liver changes, indicating an adaptive response such as increased weight and centrilobular hypertrophy, 
fatty infiltration and increased liver enzymes in plasma. 
No adverse reactions on male or female fertility or reproduction performance were observed in rats at 
doses up to 1,800 mg/kg/day (x 6 the MRHD on a mg/m2 or exposure basis) in parents and F1 
generation. 
Two embryo-foetal development (EFD) studies were performed in rats at 400, 1,200 and 
3,600 mg/kg/day. At 3,600 mg/kg/day, in only one of the 2 EFD studies, there was a slight decrease in 
foetal weight associated with a marginal increase in skeletal variations/minor anomalies. There was no 
effect on embryomortality and no increased incidence of malformations. The NOAEL (No Observed 
Adverse Effect Level) was 3,600 mg/kg/day for pregnant female rats (x 12 the MRHD on a mg/m2 
basis) and 1,200 mg/kg/day for foetuses. 
Four embryo-foetal development studies were performed in rabbits covering doses of 200, 600, 800, 
1,200 and 1,800 mg/kg/day. The dose level of 1,800 mg/kg/day induced a marked maternal toxicity 
and a decrease in foetal weight associated with increased incidence of foetuses with 
cardiovascular/skeletal anomalies. The NOAEL was < 200 mg/kg/day for the dams and 200 mg/kg/day 
for the foetuses (equal to the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis). 
A peri- and post-natal development study was performed in rats with levetiracetam doses of 70, 350 
and 1,800 mg/kg/day. The NOAEL was ≥1,800 mg/kg/day for the F0 females, and for the survival, 
growth and development of the F1 offspring up to weaning (x 6 the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis). 
Neonatal and juvenile animal studies in rats and dogs demonstrated that there were no adverse effects 
seen in any of the standard developmental or maturation endpoints at doses up to 1,800 mg/kg/day 
(x 6-17 the MRHD on a mg/m2 basis) 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Glacial acetic acid 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted product stored in PVC bags has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 30 °C and at 2-8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, unless the 
method of dilution precludes the risk of microbial contamination, the product should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage time and conditions are the responsibility of the 
user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
5 ml glass vial (type I) with bromobutyl coated rubber stoppers and an aluminium flip-off seal. 
Each carton contains 10 or 25 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
See Table 1 for the recommended preparation and administration of Levetiracetam Hospira 
concentrate for solution for infusion to achieve a total daily dose of 500 mg, 1,000 mg, 2,000 mg, or 
3,000 mg in two divided doses. 
Table 1. Preparation and administration of Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion 
Dose 
Withdrawal 
Volume 
250 mg 
500 mg 
2.5 ml (half 
5 ml vial) 
5 ml (one 5 ml 
vial) 
1,000 mg  10 ml (two 
5 ml vials) 
Volume 
of 
Diluent 
100 ml 
Infusion 
Time 
Frequency of 
Administration 
Total Daily 
Dose 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
500 mg/day 
100 ml 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
1,000 mg/day 
100 ml 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
2,000 mg/day 
1,500 mg  15 ml (three 
100 ml 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
3,000 mg/day 
5 ml vials) 
This medicinal product is for single use only, any unused solution should be discarded. 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion was found to be physically compatible and 
chemically stable when mixed with the following diluents: 
• 
• 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection 
Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Dextrose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection 
Medicinal product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/13/889/001 
EU/1/13/889/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 08 January 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 20 November 2018 
10  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B. 
C. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL  PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Pfizer Service Company BV 
Hoge Wei 10 
1930 Zaventem 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL  PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Box of 10 or 25 vials 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL  PRODUCT 
Levetiracetam Hospira 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
levetiracetam 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial contains 500 mg/5 ml levetiracetam. 
Each ml contains 100 mg levetiracetam. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Other ingredients include sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, sodium chloride, water for 
injections. See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
500 mg/5 ml 
10 vials  
25 vials  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use 
Dilute before use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use immediately after dilution. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, 
IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/13/889/001 
EU/1/13/889/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Vial of 5 ml 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL  PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Levetiracetam Hospira 100 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
levetiracetam 
IV  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use immediately after dilution. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
BN 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
500 mg/5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Levetiracetam Hospira 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
levetiracetam 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or your child start using this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Levetiracetam Hospira is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Levetiracetam Hospira 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Levetiracetam Hospira is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Levetiracetam Hospira 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Levetiracetam Hospira is and what it is used for 
Levetiracetam is an antiepileptic medicine (a medicine used to treat seizures in epilepsy). 
Levetiracetam Hospira is used: 
• 
on its own in adults and adolescents from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy, to 
treat a certain form of epilepsy. Epilepsy is a condition where the patients have repeated fits 
(seizures). Levetiracetam is used for the epilepsy form in which the fits initially affect only one 
side of the brain but could thereafter extend to larger areas on both sides of the brain (partial 
onset seizure with or without secondary generalisation). Levetiracetam has been given to you by 
your doctor to reduce the number of fits.  
as an add-on to other antiepileptic medicines to treat: 
• 
  partial onset seizures with or without generalisation in adults, adolescents and children 
from 4 years of age. 
  myoclonic seizures (short, shock-like jerks of a muscle or group of muscles) in adults 
and adolescents from 12 years of age with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 
  primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures (major fits, including loss of consciousness) in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy (the 
type of epilepsy that is thought to have a genetic cause). 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion is an alternative for patients when 
administration of the antiepileptic levetiracetam medicine by mouth is temporarily not feasible. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Levetiracetam Hospira 
Do not use Levetiracetam Hospira 
• 
If you are allergic to levetiracetam, pyrrolidone derivatives or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before you are given Levetiracetam Hospira 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you suffer from kidney problems, follow your doctor’s instructions. He/she may decide if 
your dose should be adjusted. 
If you notice any slowdown in the growth or unexpected puberty development of your child, 
please contact your doctor. 
A small number of people being treated with anti-epileptics such as Levetiracetam Hospira have 
had thoughts of harming or killing themselves. If you have any symptoms of depression and/or 
suicidal ideation, please contact your doctor. 
If you have a family or medical history of irregular heart rhythm (visible on an 
electrocardiogram), or if you have a disease and/or take a treatment that make(s) you prone to 
heartbeat irregularities or salt imbalances. 
• 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if any of the following side effects gets serious or last longer than a few 
days: 
• 
Abnormal thoughts, feeling irritable or reacting more aggressively than usually, or if you or 
your family and friends notice important changes in mood or behaviour. 
Aggravation of epilepsy: 
Your seizures may rarely become worse or happen more often, mainly during the first month 
after the start of the treatment or increase of the dose.  
In a very rare form of early-onset epilepsy (epilepsy associated with SCN8A mutations) that 
causes multiple types of seizures and loss of skills you may notice that the seizures remain 
present or are becoming worse during your treatment.  
If you experience any of these new symptoms while taking Levetiracetam Hospira, see a doctor as 
soon as possible. 
Children and adolescents 
• 
Levetiracetam Hospira is not indicated in children and adolescents below 16 years on its own 
(monotherapy). 
Other medicines and Levetiracetam Hospira 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Do not take macrogol (a drug used as laxative) for one hour before and one hour after taking 
levetiracetam as this may results in a reduction of its effect.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Levetiracetam can be used during pregnancy, only 
if after careful assessment it is considered necessary by your doctor. You should not stop your 
treatment without discussing this with your doctor. A risk of birth defects for your unborn child cannot 
be completely excluded. Breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
Levetiracetam Hospira may impair your ability to drive or operate any tools or machinery, as it may 
make you feel sleepy. This is more likely at the beginning of treatment or after an increase in the dose. 
You should not drive or use machines until it is established that your ability to perform such activities 
is not affected. 
Levetiracetam Hospira contains sodium 
One maximum single dose of Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate contains 57 mg of sodium (19 mg of 
sodium per vial) equivalent to 2.85% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for 
an adult. This should be taken into consideration if you are on a controlled sodium diet. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  How Levetiracetam Hospira is given 
A doctor or a nurse will administer you Levetiracetam Hospira as an intravenous infusion. 
Levetiracetam Hospira must be administered twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, 
at about the same time each day. 
The intravenous formulation is an alternative to your oral administration. You can switch from the 
film-coated tablets or from the oral solution to the intravenous formulation or reverse directly without 
dose adaptation. Your total daily dose and frequency of administration remain identical. 
Adjunctive therapy and monotherapy (from 16 years of age) 
Adults (≥18 years) and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing 50 kg or more: 
Recommended dose: between 1,000 mg and 3,000 mg each day. 
When you first start taking Levetiracetam Hospira, your doctor will prescribe you a lower dose for 
2 weeks before giving you the lowest daily dose. 
Dose in children (4 to 11 years) and adolescents (12 to 17 years) weighing less than 50 kg: 
Recommended dose: between 20 mg per kg bodyweight and 60 mg per kg bodyweight each day. 
Method and route of administration: 
Levetiracetam Hospira is for intravenous use. 
The recommended dose must be diluted in at least 100 ml of a compatible diluent and infused over 
15-minutes. 
For doctors and nurses, more detailed direction for the proper use of Levetiracetam Hospira is 
provided in section 6. 
Duration of treatment: 
• 
There is no experience with administration of intravenous levetiracetam for a longer period than 
4 days. 
If you stop using Levetiracetam Hospira: 
If stopping treatment, as with other antiepileptic medicines, Levetiracetam Hospira should be 
discontinued gradually to avoid an increase of seizures. Should your doctor decide to stop your 
Levetiracetam Hospira treatment, he/she will instruct you about the gradual withdrawal of 
Levetiracetam Hospira. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately, or go to your nearest emergency department, if you experience: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
weakness, feel light-headed or dizzy or have difficulty breathing, as these may be signs of a 
serious allergic (anaphylactic) reaction 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue and throat (Quincke’s oedema) 
flu-like symptoms and a rash on the face followed by an extended rash with a high temperature, 
increased levels of liver enzymes seen in blood tests and an increase in a type of white blood 
cell (eosinophilia) and enlarged lymph nodes (Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms [DRESS])  
symptoms such as low urine volume, tiredness, nausea, vomiting, confusion and swelling in the 
legs, ankles or feet, as this may be a sign of sudden decrease of kidney function 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a skin rash which may form blisters and look like small targets (central dark spots surrounded by 
a paler area, with a dark ring around the edge) (erythema multiforme) 
a widespread rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes and 
genitals (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) 
a more severe form of rash causing skin peeling in more than 30% of the body surface (toxic 
epidermal necrolysis) 
signs of serious mental changes or if someone around you notices signs of confusion, 
somnolence (sleepiness), amnesia (loss of memory), memory impairment (forgetfulness), 
abnormal behaviour or other neurological signs including involuntary or uncontrolled 
movements. These could be symptoms of an encephalopathy. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were nasopharyngitis, somnolence (sleepiness), 
headache, fatigue and dizziness. At the beginning of the treatment or at dose increase side effects like 
sleepiness, tiredness and dizziness may be more common. These effects should however decrease over 
time. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
nasopharyngitis; 
somnolence (sleepiness), headache. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
anorexia (loss of appetite); 
depression, hostility or aggression, anxiety, insomnia, nervousness or irritability; 
convulsion, balance disorder (equilibrium disorder), dizziness (sensation of unsteadiness), 
lethargy (lack of energy and enthusiasm), tremor (involuntary trembling); 
vertigo (sensation of rotation); 
cough; 
abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dyspepsia (indigestion), vomiting, nausea; 
rash; 
asthenia/fatigue (tiredness). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
• 
• 
decreased number of blood platelets, decreased number of white blood cells; 
weight decrease, weight increase; 
suicide attempt and suicidal ideation, mental disorder, abnormal behaviour, hallucination, anger, 
confusion, panic attack, emotional instability/mood swings, agitation; 
amnesia (loss of memory), memory impairment (forgetfulness), abnormal coordination/ataxia 
(impaired coordinated movements), paraesthesia (tingling), disturbance in attention (loss of 
concentration); 
diplopia (double vision), vision blurred; 
elevated/abnormal values in a liver function test; 
hair loss, eczema, pruritus; 
muscle weakness, myalgia (muscle pain); 
injury. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
• 
• 
• 
infection; 
decreased number of all blood cell types; 
severe allergic reactions (DRESS, anaphylactic reaction [severe and important allergic reaction], 
Quincke’s oedema [swelling of the face, lips, tongue and throat]);  
decreased blood sodium concentration; 
suicide, personality disorders (behavioural problems), thinking abnormal (slow thinking, unable 
to concentrate); 
delirium; 
• 
• 
• 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
encephalopathy (see sub-section “Tell your doctor immediately” for a detailed description of 
symptoms); 
seizures may become worse or happen more often; 
uncontrollable muscle spasms affecting the head, torso and limbs, difficulty in controlling 
movements, hyperkinesia (hyperactivity); 
change of the heart rhythm (Electrocardiogram); 
pancreatitis; 
liver failure, hepatitis; 
sudden decrease in kidney function; 
skin rash, which may form blisters and looks like small targets (central dark spots surrounded by 
a paler area, with a dark ring around the edge) (erythema multiforme), a widespread rash with 
blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, nose, eyes and genitals (Stevens-
Johnson syndrome), and a more severe form causing skin peeling in more than 30% of the body 
surface (toxic epidermal necrolysis); 
rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle tissue) and associated blood creatine phosphokinase 
increase. Prevalence is significantly higher in Japanese patients when compared to non-Japanese 
patients. 
limp or difficulty walking; 
combination of fever, muscle stiffness, unstable blood pressure and heart rate, confusion, low 
level of consciousness (may be signs of a disorder called neuroleptic malignant syndrome). 
Prevalence is significantly higher in Japanese patients when compared to non-Japanese patients. 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
• 
repeated unwanted thoughts or sensations or the urge to do something over and over again 
(Obsessive Compulsive Disorder).  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Levetiracetam Hospira 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the vial and carton box after EXP: 
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Levetiracetam Hospira contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is called levetiracetam. Each ml contains 100 mg of levetiracetam. 
The other ingredients are: sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid, sodium chloride, water 
for injections (see section 2 Levetiracetam Hospira contains sodium). 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Levetiracetam Hospira looks like and contents of the pack 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) is a clear, colourless 
solution. 
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate for solution for infusion is packed in a cardboard box containing 10 
or 25 vials of 5 ml. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Service Company BV 
Hoge Wei 10 
1930 Zaventem 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 554 62 11 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. + 370 52 51 4000 
България 
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България 
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 554 62 11 
Česká republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: + 45 44 20 11 00 
Deutschland 
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 488 37 00 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 419 070/1/2 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Ελλάδα 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6785 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Polska  
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 335 61 00 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Pfizer  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+44 (0) 1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Portugal  
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer România S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana 
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421–2–3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Κύπρος 
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch) 
Τηλ.: +357 22817690 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija  
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel.: + 371 670 35 775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
This leaflet was last revised in month YYYY. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Directions for the proper use of Levetiracetam Hospira is provided in section 3. 
One vial of Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate contains 500 mg levetiracetam (5 ml concentrate of 
100 mg/ml). See Table 1 for the recommended preparation and administration of Levetiracetam 
Hospira concentrate to achieve a total daily dose of 500 mg, 1000 mg, 2000 mg, or 3000 mg in two 
divided doses. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Preparation and administration of Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate 
Dose 
250 mg 
Withdrawal 
Volume 
2.5 ml (half 5 ml 
vial) 
5 ml (one 5 ml vial) 
500 mg 
1,000 mg  10 ml (two 5 ml 
vials) 
1,500 mg  15 ml (three 5 ml 
vials) 
Volume of 
Diluent 
100 ml 
Infusion 
Time 
15 minutes 
Frequency of 
administration 
Twice daily 
Total Daily 
Dose 
500 mg/day 
100 ml 
100 ml 
15 minutes 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
Twice daily 
1,000 mg/day 
2,000 mg/day 
100 ml 
15 minutes 
Twice daily 
3,000 mg/day 
This medicinal product is for single use only, any unused solution should be discarded. 
In use shelf life:  
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted product stored in PVC bags has been demonstrated 
for 24 hours at 30 °C and at 2-8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of dilution 
precludes  the  risk  of  microbial contamination, the product should  be  used  immediately. If not  used 
immediately, in-use storage time and conditions are the responsibility of the user.  
Levetiracetam Hospira concentrate was found to be physically compatible and chemically stable when 
mixed with the following diluents: 
• 
• 
• 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection 
Lactated Ringer’s solution for injection 
Dextrose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
