SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Levitra. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Erectile  dysfunction  (ED)  has  been  defined  as  the  persistent  inability  to  achieve  and  maintain  an 
erection sufficient to permit satisfactory sexual performance. 
Although erectile dysfunction is regarded as a benign disorder, it has a medical and social impact due 
to  its  high  prevalence,  costs  and  implications  for  quality  of  life  for  many  men  (and  their  partners).  
The exact incidence of ED is difficult to determine. A recent review has concluded that the prevalence 
of erectile dysfunction of all degrees is 52% in men 40 to 70 years old, with the incidence increasing 
along  with  age.  Therefore,  it  is  expected  that  as  the  population  ages,  the  prevalence  of  ED  will 
continue to increase with an estimated 328 million men world-wide affected by this condition by Year 
2025. 
Normal erectile function requires the coordination of psychological, hormonal, neurological, vascular 
and  anatomic  factors.  Alteration  of  any  of  these  factors  is  sufficient  to  cause  this  condition.  Main 
causes  of  erectile  dysfunction  are  chronic  systemic  illnesses  (diabetes  mellitus,  heart  disease, 
hypertension  and  peripheral  vascular  disease),  neurological  disorders  (post-traumatic  spinal-cord 
injuries,  multiple  sclerosis  or  post-surgical  lesions  as  radical  prostatectomy),  hormonal  disorders  as 
hyperprolactinemia, local conditions as Peyronie's disease or congenital or traumatic deformities of the 
penis; drug induced erectile dysfunction (antidepressants,  beta adrenergic  blocking  agents, thiazides, 
anabolic steroids, cimetidine, digoxin, or metoclopramide) and psychogenic factors are other causes of 
erectile dysfunction. 
There  are  several  approaches  to  the  management  of  erectile  dysfunction:  psychosexual  counselling, 
vacuum  constriction  devices,  vascular  surgery,  penile  prosthesis  and  pharmacological  treatment  
(oral therapy, intraurethral therapy and intracavernous injection therapy). 
Penile  injection  therapy  was  the  commonest  form  of  therapy  of  erectile  dysfunction  before  the 
introduction  of  sildenafil.  It  is  indicated  when  oral  therapy  is  not  suitable  or  fails.  Alprostadil  
(an  stable,  synthetic  form  of  prostaglandin  E1)  and  papaverine  (a  non-specific  phosphodiesterase 
inhibitor)  were  the  most  used  agents  by  this  route,  although  fentolamine  has  also  been  used  in  this 
way.  They  can  be  used  alone  or  in  combination.  Regarding  efficacy  and  safety,  this  method  is 
effective in 80%  of patients with organic erectile dysfunction and main side effects include fibrosis, 
penile pain and priapism. 
Alprostadil is also approved in the EU for intraurethral administration. The advantages of this therapy 
include local application, minimal systemic effects, and the rarity of drug interactions, but its efficacy 
is limited. 
Sublingual apomorphine (Uprima) was approved in year 2000 for the same indication. Apomorphine  
3  mg showed a success rate of 40-50% of the attempts of intercourse compared to a success rate of 
30% with placebo. Main adverse effects are nausea, dizziness, hypotension and vaso vagal syncopes. 
Since  the  introduction  in  1998  of  sildenafil  (Viagra),  as  the  first  oral  treatment  for  the  erectile 
dysfunction,  the  pharmacological  treatment  has  acquired  a  more  relevant  role  in  the  management  of 
the disease and oral therapy should be considered as a first line treatment at this moment. Sildenafil 
has  shown  a  success  rate  of  62-73%  of  the  attempts  of  intercourse  compared  to  a  success  rate  of  
22-25%  with  placebo.  Although  the  product  is  generally  well-tolerated,  adverse  effect  such  as 
headache  (12.8%),  flushing  (10.4%),  and  dyspepsia  (4.6%)  may  occur.  Also  visual  disturbances 
(1.9%),  dizziness  (1.2%),  and  nasal  congestion  (1.1%)  may  occur.  Sildenafil  produces  mild  and 
transitory  decreases  of  blood  pressure  and  it  is  contraindicated  in  patients  taking  nitrates  for  the 
treatment  of  the  ischaemic  heart  disease.  Sildenafil  has  been  associated  with  an  increase  of  the 
occurrence of cardiovascular adverse events although is still not clear if it is related to the product or if 
1/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it  is  related  to  the  risk  inherent  to  the  sexual  activity  in  patients  with  underlying  diseases.  A  large 
variety of clinical studies have been undertaken to address this question, and of the studies reported to 
date,  none  has  demonstrated  a  link  between  sildenafil  and  serious  cardiovascular  events.  
Approximately 35% of patients do not respond to sildenafil. This suggests that there is an additional 
need for further treatment options for ED. 
The new directions of ED therapy are: The first is the improvement of current therapies (apomorfine 
and PDE inhibitors with increasing pharmacological selectivity). The second one is the combination of 
existing  therapies  (i.e.,  apomorphina  and  sildenafil,  nitric  oxide  donation  +  alfa  1  antagonist 
adrenoreceptor), the third direction is new targets within the central nervous system (i.e., melanocortin 
receptor agonists, growth hormone-releasing peptide receptor) and finally, a new peripheral target. 
Vardenafil has been shown to be a potent and selective inhibitor of PDE5, an enzyme responsible for 
the degradation of cGMP in the corpus cavernosum.  When nitric oxide is released by nerve endings 
or  endothelium,  as  is  the  case  with  sexual  stimulation,  the  cGMP  pathway  is  activated.  PDE5 
inactivates cGMP inside the cytoplasm. Inhibition of this enzyme causes increased concentrations of 
cGMP, which in turn enhance smooth  muscle relaxation and  hence the erectile response.  Vardenafil 
seems to be more selective for PDE5 relative to PDE1, PDE6 and PDE11 compared to Sildenafil.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
it 
is  presented  as  film  coated 
This  medicinal  product  has  been  developed  as  an  immediate  formulation  and  is  presented  in  three 
different strengths, i.e. 5 mg, 10 mg, and 20 mg of vardenafil (as vardenafil hydrochloride trihydrate) 
and 
tablets.  Crospovidone,  magnesium  stearate,  cellulose 
microcrystalline,  silica  colloidal  anhydrous  have  been  selected  as  excipients  of  the  tablets  core  and 
macrogol  400,  hypromellose,  titanium  dioxide,  ferric  oxide  yellow,  ferric  oxide  red  as  excipients  of 
the coating. The rationale for the selection of the individual excipients is given.  
Film coated tablets are supplied in polypropylene/aluminium blisters. 
Active substance 
Vardenafil  is  a  new  active  substance  ,  IUPAC  name:  2-[2-Ethoxy-5-(4-ethyl-piperazine-1-sulfonyl)-
phenyl]-5-methyl-7-propyl-3H-imidazo[5,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-4-one  monohydrochloride 
trihydrate. 
Vardenafil  HCl.3H2O  is  an  achiral  compound,  which  its  solubility  is  pH  dependent  and  decreases 
significantly with rising  pH. The trihydrate form  is thermodynamically stable at ambient  conditions. 
The  synthesis  process  is  carried  out  in  3  steps  followed  by  crystallization  and  drying  procedures. 
Despite  its  favorable  solubility  in  aqueous  solutions  of  low  pH,  vardenafil  HCl  3H2O  is  milled  to 
achieve optimal homogeneity of drug product powder blends, especially for the lower dose strengths. 
Adequate 
the  active  substance.  
The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have 
been presented. 
in-process  controls  are  applied  during 
the  synthesis  of 
Active substance specification 
The  active  substance  specification  reflects  all  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  active  substance.  
The analytical methods used in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are 
in accordance with the ICH Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology 
studies. 
The batch analysis data show that the active ingredient can be manufactured reproducibly. 
Stability 
18  month  ICH  stability  studies  have  been  performed.  6  months  accelerated  data  are  also  presented. 
The stability under stress test conditions has been investigated: thermal stress up 60ºC, oxidative and 
hydrolytic stress at various pH-values. Light sensitivity has also been studied. The data provided are 
sufficient to confirm the re-test period. 
2/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients 
Conventional pharmaceutical excipients crospovidone, magnesium stearate, cellulose microcrystalline, 
silica  colloidal  anhydrous,  and  macrogol  400,  hypromellose,  titanium  dioxide  are  of  Ph  Eur  quality, 
and  ferric  oxide  yellow,  ferric  oxide  red  are  of  Ph.  Franc.  Certificates  of  analyses  are  provided  and 
show compliance with respective monographs. 
The magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin, and statements concerning the absence of risk for TSE 
transmission are provided. 
The  medicinal  product  is  supplied  in  polypropylene/aluminium  blister  packs.  Controls  and 
specifications of primary packaging are presented and well described. 
Product development and finished product 
The product development has taken into account the physicochemical characteristics of the active drug 
substance; the compatibility of the active substance with excipients, content uniformity and chemical 
stability in the presence of excipients was also studied. Conventional pharmaceutical excipients have 
been selected and the function of each individual excipient is standard and well known. 
Different dose strengths are differentiated by tablet size and embossing.  
The process for the manufacturing of the finished product is a standard dry-granulation process, which 
follows conventional pharmaceutical practises.  
The manufacturing process has adequately been described and is satisfactory. The in process controls 
are adequate for this preparation. 
The batch analysis data of three full-scale production batches show that this medicinal product can be 
manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the  finished  product  specification,  which  is  suitable  for  the 
use of this oral preparation. 
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  tablet  marking, 
identification,  assay,  impurities  /  degradation  products,  uniformity  of  contents,  water  content 
dissolution and microbial purity.  
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
Stability of the Product 
The stability samples for stability testing were packaged in a polypropylene/aluminium blister.  
The results indicate satisfactory stability and support the shelf life stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of the medicinal product is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The  finished  product  intended  for  marketing  are  well  suited;  the  manufacturing  process  is  under 
control and ensures both batch to batch reproducibility and compliance with standard procedures and 
specifications; the analytical methods have been validated and seem to be suitable to ensure consistent 
quality of  the active  substance and the  finished  product, the  synthetic  pathway is presented  and  the 
structure  and  impurity  profile  are  well  characterised  and  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  
The stability data on the active substance supports the proposed re-testing period; 
3/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on stability data of the finished product in the proposed primary package, the proposed shelf 
life stated in the SPC is acceptable. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Levitra contains the active substance vardenafil hydrochloride trihydrate, a new reversible inhibitor of 
the  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)  phosphodiesterase,  PDE  type  5,  intended  for  the 
treatment of male erectile dysfunction. 
Human  penile  erection  requires  the  relaxation  of  both  penile  resistance  arteries  and  the  trabecular 
smooth  muscle  of  the  corpus  cavernosum.  Nitric  oxide  (NO)  released  from  non-adrenergic,  non-
cholinergic  neurones  and  endothelial  cells  upon  sexual  stimulation  appears  to  mediate  this  process. 
Upon  release,  NO  diffuses  into  smooth  muscle  cells  and  activates  the  cytosolic  form  of  the  enzyme 
guanylyl  cyclase,  thereby  increasing  levels  of  cyclic  GMP.  Cyclic  GMP  in  turn  activates  protein 
kinase  G,  triggering  phosphorylation  events  that  result  in  decreased  cytosolic  calcium  levels  and 
relaxation. The actions of cyclic GMP are terminated by phosphodiesterases, including PDE5, which 
catalyse its hydrolysis to 5’-GMP. 
PDEs  are  known  to  be  expressed  in  a  variety  of  tissues  and  have  been  classified  according  to  their 
regulatory characteristics, substrate specificity and pharmacological profile. The determination of the 
selectivity of vardenafil for the PDE5 subtype and its functional effects on several organ systems and 
cells  were  further  investigated  in  several  studies  described  below  supporting  the  efficacy  of  the 
compound for use in erectile dysfunction. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamic effects of vardenafil and its main circulating metabolites M1, M4 and M5 were 
determined  during  a  series  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  experiments  in  animals.  Results  of  these  studies 
conducted  indicate  that  vardenafil  exerts  PDE5  inhibiting  activity.  This  causes  smooth  muscle 
relaxation, inducing a rise in intracavernosal pressure and consequently penile erection.  
Some  of  these  studies  used  sildenafil  and  tadalafil  as  comparators.  In  these  studies  an  IC50  (PDE5 
inhibition)=  0.89  nM  (human  recombinant  enzyme)  was  observed  for  vardenafil  compared  to  an 
IC50=8.5 nM and IC50=9.4 nM for sildenafil and tadalafil, respectively. The metabolites M1, M4, and 
M5  showed  a  potency  of  3.6,  18,  and  20  fold  less  than  the  parent  compound  in  inhibiting  human 
recombinant PDE5, respectively. 
No  study  has  been  conducted  to  assess  possible  effects  of  vardenafil  on  other  potential  therapeutic 
indications. 
• 
In vitro studies  
Studies  in  isolated  human  and  rabbit  corpus  cavernosum  slices  demonstrated  that  vardenafil  dose 
dependently  increased  the  concentration  of  cGMP  ,  both  in  unstimulated  and  in  stimulated  slices. 
Rabbit tissue was found to be less sensitive to vardenafil than human tissue.  
Electrophysiological  studies  were  also  conducted  in  a  human  cell  line  (HEK293)  transfected  with 
human  hERG  gene  to  address  the  direct  influence  of  vardenafil  on  the  repolarizing  Ikr  current. 
Sildenafil  was  used  as  a  comparator.  Block  of  the  hERG  channel  was  shown  at  IC50=84  µM  for 
vardenafil  and  IC50=111  µM  for  sildenafil  (not  statistically  significantly  different).  If  the  threshold 
concentrations are considered, the hERG-blockade becomes apparent at 3 µM, a concentration about 
88-fold  above  the  peak  plasma  level  in  man  at  the  highest  clinically  recommended  dose  of  20  mg. 
Taking into account these results, the potential for QT prolongation in humans can be considered low.  
Regarding  vardenafil’s  main  metabolites,  the  risk  for  QT  prolongation  has  been  studied  in  vivo  in 
preclinical studies at multiples of the maximum therapeutic dose. In terms of Cmax, M1 and M4 were 
assessed at 21 and 14 times the maximum therapeutic dose. ECG analysis did not reveal any potential 
for QT prolongation.  
4/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In vivo studies  
A  new  animal  model  using  conscious  adult  male  rabbits  was  developed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of 
vardenafil in vivo. This new animal model has been validated and sildenafil was tested as a standard 
and  found  to  be  active  in  the  model.  In  this  rabbit  model  the  maximal  erection  achievable  with 
sildenafil  was  half  of  that  achieved  with  vardenafil,  and  for  sildenafil  3-5  times  higher  doses  were 
needed to achieve comparable effects.      
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
As for other PDE5 inhibitors, coadministration of nitrates or nitric oxide donors is contraindicated in 
the SPC. 
In  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  it  has  been  shown  that  sodium  nitroprusside,  a  NO-donor,  clearly 
enhances the action of vardenafil. Studies on vardenafil’s binding to e.g. alpha- or beta-adrenoceptors, 
cholinergic,  histaminergic  and  serotonergic  receptors  etc,  demonstrated  vardenafil’s  selectivity  for 
PDE receptors. There is no concern about clinically relevant receptor interactions.  
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
The effects of vardenafil on the cardiovascular system were assessed in anaesthetised and conscious 
dogs.  Vardenafil  has  been  shown  to  have  vasodilating  cardiovascular  activity  in  dogs,  resulting  in 
decreased  mainly  systolic  blood  pressure,  and  increased  heart  rate.  The  total  peripheral  resistance 
dropped by a maximum of 19% after the administration of 0.3 mg/kg, a dose yielding a Cmax slightly 
higher than seen in man following the proposed maximum recommended dose of 20 mg. This is not an 
unexpected  effect  for  vardenafil  due  to  the  mechanism  of  action  and  vardenafil  use  is  not 
recommended in hypotensive patients as stated in the SPC. 
There was no evidence for a direct effect on electrical conductance in the heart. In the anaesthetised 
dog,  the  QT-interval  decreased  dose-dependently  and  after  the  Bazett’s  correction,  there  was  no 
substantial  change  in  QTc.  In  the  conscious  dog  after  Bazett’s  correction  there  was  no  substantial 
change in QTc. 
Up  to  10 mg/kg,  the  highest  dose  tested,  vardenafil  displayed  no  adverse  effect  on  blood 
respiration,  blood  glucose, 
the  CNS,  psychomotor  activity, 
pharmacological  parameters, 
gastrointestinal function, renal function or coagulation. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
General pharmacodynamic studies were carried out on experimental models generally used to assess 
the safety of this type of medicinal products. 
As summarised above several adverse events can be associated with the use of vardenafil. However, it 
should  be  noted  that  almost  all  of  the  possible  adverse  effects  only  occur  at  doses  or  (plasma) 
concentrations  at  least  30  times  higher  than  that  needed  for  the  therapeutic  effect  of  vardenafil.  At 
therapeutic doses slight effects on haemodynamics can not be excluded but are explainable on basis of 
vardenafil’s pharmacological profile and are reported in the SPC.  
Overall,  from  the  results  of  general  pharmacodynamics  studies,  there  is  no  doubt  that,  within  the 
therapeutic dose-range, vardenafil is a safe drug for the proposed indication. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Preclinical  pharmacokinetics  of  vardenafil  and  its  pharmacologically  active  metabolite  M1  were 
investigated  in  several  species.  Studies  were  performed  in  rats,  mice  and  dogs  on  absorption, 
bioavailability,  protein  binding,  distribution,  biotransformation  and  excretion  following  single 
5/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intravenous, oral and intraduodenal administration of [14C]-labelled vardenafil hydrochloride or non-
labelled vardenafil hydrochloride. 
No evident pharmacokinetic interaction was reported after sufficient studies for that purpose had been 
performed. 
Absorption 
Vardenafil is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. The mean oral bioavailability is between 
7  and  33%  for  rat  and  dog  and  approximately  15%  for  man.  The  elimination  of  vardenafil  occurs 
almost  exclusively  by  biotransformation  as  indicated  by  only  small  fractions  (0.7 - 3 %  of  the  dose) 
being excreted unchanged. 
Distribution 
The  binding  of  vardenafil  to  plasma  proteins  is  high  and  species-dependent  and  independent  on 
concentration and gender. Vardenafil distributes rapidly to organs and tissues  and highest maximum 
radioactivity concentrations are measured in the liver, adrenal glands and kidneys. Total radioactivity 
penetrates the blood/brain barrier to a moderate extent and the placental barrier of rats to a low extent. 
The terminal half-life for the body excluding gastrointestinal tract (representing the sum of all organs 
and  tissues)  is  37 h.  At  168  h  postdosing,  vardenafil  related  material,  was  detectable  in  liver  and 
kidney.  Small  amounts  were  also  still  detectable  in  the  testes  at  168  h  postdosing.  However,  on  the 
basis of the results of toxicity studies, the presence of vardenafil related material in the testes does not 
seem to have consequences.  
Vardenafil  shows  affinity  to  melanin-bearing  tissues.  Such  an  affinity  to  melanin-containing 
structures,  also  described  for  other  PDE5  inhibitors,  does  not  appear  to  be  related  to  any  possible 
adverse effects on the retina. The results of a 12-month dog toxicity study are of especial relevance to 
exclude any risk resulting from the presence of vardenafil in the eye due to its binding to melanin (the 
retina of dogs contains melanin). 
Biotransformation 
The biotransformation of vardenafil has been studied in mice, rats and dogs and revealed an extensive 
and  qualitatively  comparable  metabolism  in  these  species.  Metabolic  profiling  of  plasma  of  rat, 
mouse, dog and man revealed the unchanged drug and M-1, formed by N-deethylation, to be the major 
component. No significant human-specific metabolites have been identified. 
Excretion 
Vardenafil and the  metabolites were rapidly and completely excreted, predominantly via the hepato-
biliary system and to a small extent in the urine (approximately 5 % in all species). In lactating rats, 
3.3% of the administered dose was excreted into the milk. 
Single-dose/repeated dose studies 
The plasma concentrations of the unchanged compound were almost dose-proportional in man in the 
therapeutic  dose  range  (5  to  20 mg  per  subject),  dose-proportional  in  dogs  after  single  oral 
administration  of  0.3  to  3 mg/kg,  while  an  over-proportional  increase  of  the  plasma  concentrations 
was observed in rats in the same dose range. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  vardenafil  in  the  rat  was  sex  dependent.  In  dogs  and  in  a  phase I  study  in 
man, no sex-dependence of the pharmacokinetics was found. 
Taking  the  free  fractions  and  the  in  vitro  PDE5  inhibitory  activity  into  account,  only  the  M-1 
metabolite is expected to have some contribution to the pharmacological effect (but clearly less than 
vardenafil, about 7% relative to it), whereas M-4 is not relevant for the pharmacological effect due to 
its low exposure compared to vardenafil and M-1 (0.06% relative to vardenafil). The plasma clearance 
of the major active metabolite M-1 was 6.0 and 2.4 l/h.kg in rat and dog, respectively, and the volume 
of distribution at steadystate was higher than that of vardenafil approximately 9 l/kg.  
6/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
A battery of toxicity studies has been conducted in order to assess possible toxic effects. 
Since the toxicological programme was designed to support a once daily (o.d.) tablet formulation, the 
same dosing scheme (o.d.) was applied in the majority of toxicological studies. 
Single dose toxicity 
Used  by  the  oral  route,  vardenafil  showed  effects  in  rats  and  mice  compatible  with  effects  on  the 
cardio-vascular system. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated dose studies were carried out in mice, rats and dogs. In mice, little toxicity was found up to 
high  doses.  In  both  rats  and  dogs,  effects  were  found  consistent  with  the  haemodynamic  effect  of 
valdenafil. Other toxicological findings in the pancreas, liver, kidney, exocrine glands and the thyroid 
in  repeated  dose  studies  were  observed  in  the  rat  (the  two  other  species,  dog  and  mouse,  were  not 
susceptible) and are expected in the rat by the pharmacology of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor as well.  
The lowest no observed effect level was 3 mg/kg in dogs and male rats. 
In rats as well as dogs special attention was given to effects on the testes and eyes. No adverse effects 
on these organs were found. 
Oral reproduction toxicity 
Studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  The  clinical  indication  of  vardenafil  does  not  include 
treatment of  women and thus,  the  results  of  the  embryo-foetal and  prenatal/postnatal studies are not 
immediately relevant for the human risk assessment in the human male. 
Testing  for  reproductive  toxicity  did  not  reveal  impairment  of  male  or  female  fertility.  No  specific 
primary teratogenic potential was shown. 
Genotoxicity 
Representative batches of vardenafil were tested for in vitro mutagenic and clastogenic potential in a 
bacterial reverse mutation test, a mammalian cell gene mutation test and a chromosome aberration test 
and  in  the  in  vivo  mouse  micronucleus  test.  Overall,  no  indication  for  a  genotoxic  hazard  was 
observed. 
Carcinogenicity 
Two  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  mice.  The  systemic  exposure 
(AUC)  achieved  at  the  top  dose  in  the  2-year  studies  was  about  120-350  times  (rat)  and  25  times 
(mice) the exposure in human at the proposed maximum recommended therapeutic dose.   
Neither a 2-year study in rats nor a 2-year study in mice revealed a carcinogenic potential of vardenafil 
up to and including the highest dose tested. 
Other studies 
There  are  no  adverse  environmental  effects  anticipated  as  a  consequence  of  the  use  of  vardenafil.  
The environmental risks have not been evaluated. 
Vardenafil is presented as a tablet to be taken orally. No local tolerance studies were submitted 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  programme  has  demonstrated  that  vardenafil  has  a  high  potency 
and selectivity for PDE5 and induces a rise in intracavernosal pressure during sexual stimulation.  
From  the  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view,  rats,  mice  and  dogs  were  the  most  relevant  species  for 
preclinical efficacy and safety studies. The main toxicity findings are well understood and do not raise 
concern for human safety. This information has been included in the SPC. 
7/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
The  clinico-pharmacological  characteristics  of  vardenafil  were  investigated  in  35  studies  involving 
712 subjects treated with vardenafil. Studies were conducted in Europe, South Africa, USA and Japan. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
The efficacy of PDE5 inhibition with respect to treatment of erectile dysfunction has been established 
with sildenafil in the past.  Vardenafil has been shown to be a potent and selective inhibitor of PDE5. 
Pre-clinical tests demonstrated that it is at least 5 times more potent than sildenafil in inhibiting PDE5. 
In  principle,  lower  doses  can  be  given  in  order  to  attain  or  maintain  erections  in  patients  with  ED.  
Vardenafil is also more selective for PDE5 relative to PDE1, PDE6 and PDE11 compared to sildenafil 
potentially resulting in an improved risk/benefit ratio. 
Primary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics of  vardenafil was evaluated in three  randomised, double blind, placebo-
controlled, 3-fold crossover studies in patients with erectile dysfunction, using Rigiscan device, which 
is  a  valid  method  to  evaluate  pharmacodynamic  effect  on  penile  erection.  This  system  allows 
measuring  the  duration,  frequency  and  degree  of  rigidity  and  tumescence  of  the  penis.  Rigidity  is 
defined as the degree of hardness of the penis and is measured by the software as a percentage, using a 
proprietary algorism derived from the changes in tumescence from baseline. 
Vardenafil  (10  mg,  20  mg  and  40  mg)  has  been  found  to  be  effective  and  significantly  different  in 
comparison to placebo with respect to time of rigidity >60%, which is considered the minimal rigidity 
necessary for sexual intercourse.  
One study evaluated the time to onset of penile rigidity =60% at the base. Although the time to onset 
of  the  effect  could  not  be  elucidated  in  this  study,the  applicant  has  provided  data  justifying  the 
recommendation given in the SPC of taking the drug between 25 minutes and 1 hour before intended 
sexual intercourse. 
Secondary pharmacology: 
Vardenafil,  as  other  drugs  belonging  to  the  same  pharmacological  group,  has  an  effect  on  visual 
function, probably due to the fact that PDE6, which is involved in the phototransduction of the retina 
(transformation of light into electrical signals), is also inhibited, at least to a certain degree. Data after 
40 mg single dose indicate a mild and transient impairment of colour discrimination in the blue/green 
range  and  the  purple  range.  Electroretinogram  (ERG)  measurements  showed  no  clinically  relevant 
changes.  The  absence  of  a  positive  control  in  this  study  (i.e.  sildenafil)  indeed  precludes  a  firm 
conclusion in this regard. The effect on visual function with vardenafil might be longer than the effect 
observed  with  sildenafil,  but  again,  the  lack  of  comparative  data  do  not  allow  to  draw  definite 
conclusions on this issue. 
Effect  on  sperm  motility  was  studied  in  healthy  volunteers,  in  a  placebo  controlled  study  using  a, 
single oral dose of 20 mg of vardenafil. Vardenafil did not produce any acute effect on spermiogram 
parameters.  In  addition,  vardenafil  did  not  cause  any  alteration  in  serum  levels  of  FSH  (Follicle 
Stimulating  Hormone),  LH  (Luteinising  Hormone),  testosterone,  DHEAS  (Dehydroepiandrosteron 
Sulfate), and S-HBG (Sex-Hormone Binding Globuline).  
Vardenafil has been shown to have no effect on the ability of patients with stable ischaemic coronary 
artery disease to complete an exercise treadmill test. There were no differences between vardenafil and 
placebo  either  in  the  total  exercise  treadmill  time  (ETT)  and  or  in  total  time  to  angina.  Also,  for 
patients  with  1  mm  or  greater  ST-segment  depression  on  the  ETT,  vardenafil  improved  by  15%  the 
patient’s time to the appearance of 1 mm or greater ST-segment depression. 
8/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vardenafil,  as  described  for  other  PDE5  inhibitors,  decreased  supine  systolic  and  diastolic  blood 
pressure. After dosing with 20 mg and 40 mg of vardenafil the maximal decreases for systolic blood 
pressure were – 6.9 mmHg under 20 mg and – 4.3 mmHg under 40 mg of vardenafil, when compared 
to placebo; the corresponding values for diastolic blood pressure were – 7.1 mmHg under 20 mg and – 
5.2  mmHg  under  40  mg  of  vardenafil.  The  decrease  of  blood  pressure  was  typically  followed  by  a 
compensatory increase of heart rate. 
Vardenafil and alcohol decrease systolic blood pressure in the same magnitude and no clear additive 
or synergistic effects could be detected. 
There  is  some  experimental  evidence  in  healthy  volunteers  suggesting  that  vardenafil  does  not 
potentiate  the  hypotensive  effect  of  nitrates,  when  nitrates  are  given  1  hour  or  later  after  vardenafil 
administration.Nevertheless, since the study performed has some limitations,as a safety precaution, the 
contraindication  of  co  administrate  vardenafil  with  nitrates  or  nitric  oxide  donors  in  any  form 
according to other PDE5 inhibitors is proposed. 
Vardenafil  combined  with  aspirin  did  cause  neither  clinically  relevant  nor  statistically  significant 
increases in bleeding time. 
In a formal drug interaction study between vardenafil and nifedipine there was an additive hypotensive 
effect  of  vardenafil  when  administered  concomitantly  with  nifedipine  (slow  release  formulation).  
The decrease attributed to vardenafil is around 5-6 mmHg in systolic blood pressure and 3-5 mmHg in 
diastolic blood pressure.  
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
Vardenafil  is  rapidly  and  almost  completely  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  reaching 
maximum plasma concentrations 30–120 minutes (median 60 minutes) after oral administration in the 
fasted  state.  Vardenafil  AUC  and  Cmax  increase  almost  dose-proportionally  over  the  recommended 
dose range from 5–20 mg. 
No  accumulation  occurs  after  multiple  administrations  once  daily.  Vardenafil  is  highly  bound  to 
plasma  proteins  (93.3–95.3%),  mainly  to  serum  albumin  (approx.  79%).  The  large  volume  of 
distribution at steady state of 208 L (= 2.5 L/kg) indicates distribution of vardenafil into the tissues. 
With  a  clearance  of  56  L/h  vardenafil  can  be  regarded  as  a  high  clearance  drug  with  elimination 
determined  by  liver  blood  flow.  The  plasma  elimination  half-life  is  4  to  5  hours.  After  dosing 
radioactive labelled vardenafil, 4.89% of the total radioactivity was excreted in the urine and 92.5% in 
the faeces.  Vardenafil is eliminated  via  biotransformation.   Vardenafil  is  metabolised predominantly 
by hepatic enzymes via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoform 3A4, with some contribution from CYP3A5 
and CYP2C isoforms. 
The  plasma  pharmacokinetics  of  the  major  metabolites  M1  and  M4  are  quite  similar  to  the 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of the parent drug with comparable times to maximum concentration 
and terminal elimination half-lives. The metabolites M1 and M4 were found to be inhibitors of PDE5 
with 28% and 5.6% potency (IC50-values) of the parent drug in vitro. Based on their exposure in man, 
only M1 may contribute to any meaningful extent (7%) to overall effect of vardenafil. The absolute 
bioavailability  of  vardenafil  is  approximately  14.5%.  The  inter  and  intra  individual  variability  in 
vardenafil  pharmacokinetics  is  high  (AUC  37-51%,  Cmax  38-59%  and  AUC  20%,  Cmax  31%, 
respectively) 
In a placebo controlled trial, elderly subjects had higher AUC and Cmax values than younger subjects. 
On average, elderly males had a 52 % higher AUC and 34 % higher Cmax than young males with no 
statistical  significance.  Nevertheless,  as  it  cannot  be  ruled  out  that  these  differences  are  of  clinical 
relevance, the SPC recommends elderly patients to start with the lowest dose (5 mg) and increase it,  
if necessary, based on efficacy and tolerability. 
9/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population  pharmacokinetic  investigations  of  Phase  III  data  revealed  no  significant  effect  of  age  on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  vardenafil.  Vardenafil  pharmacokinetics  after  multiple  doses  were  also 
assessed but changes were not found. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  vardenafil  has  been  assessed  in  patients  with  different  degrees  of  renal 
impairment  (including  patients  with  a  Cr  Cl  below  30ml/min  although  not  in  dialysis).  Although  a 
significant  correlation  between  creatinine  clearance,  as  a  measure  for  deterioration  in  renal  function 
and AUC and Cmax was not observed, a dose recommendation has been addressed in the SPC, since 
the number of subjects with severe renal impairment investigated was low. 
As  expected,  the  clearance  of  vardenafil  is  strongly  influenced  by  the  hepatic  function  status.  
The exposure to vardenafil in patients with hepatic insufficiency grade B is significantly increased, in 
a magnitude that is double compared to the one observed in healthy volunteers. The recommendation 
in  the  SPC  is  as  follows:  a  starting  dose  of  5  mg  should  be  considered  in  patients  with  mild  and 
moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  A-B),  which  based  on  tolerability  and  efficacy  may  be 
increased to 10 mg and then 20 mg. In addition, the use of vardenafil in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment should be contraindicated. 
No changes in AUC are observed when vardenafil is taken after a standard meal or a high-fat meal in 
comparison to a fasting administration. However, after a high fat meal, there is a delay in tmax (from 1 
hour to two hours) with a 20% decrease of Cmax. This may have consequences in the onset of action 
and  this  information  is  reflected  in  the  SPC.  After  a  meal  containing  30%  fat  (a  standard  meal),  
the  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of  vardenafil  (tmax,  Cmax  and  AUC)  are  unchanged  compared  to 
administration under fasting conditions. 
The population pharmacokinetic investigations did not show significant effects of acetylsalicylic acid, 
ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, weak CYP 3A inhibitors, diuretics and medications for the treatment of 
diabetes  (sulfonylureas  and  metformin)  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  vardenafil.  Furthermore, 
population  pharmacokinetic  covariates  in  the  target  population  of  patients  with  ED,  including 
diabetics, showed no difference compared to pharmacokinetic covariates in healthy subjects. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
Concomitant  use  of  potent  P450  CYP3A4  inhibitors  produced  marked  increases  of  plasma  levels  of 
vardenafil (erythromycin: AUC 4.0-fold increase and Cmax 3.1-fold increase, ketoconazole: AUC and 
Cmax increase 10-fold and 4.1-fold and indinavir: AUC and Cmax 16-fold and 7-fold, respectively). 
The  decrease  in  M1,  M4  and  M5  concentrations  in  ketoconazole  and  indinavir  studies  is  also 
consistent  with  inhibition  of  this  metabolic  pathway.  In  the  erythromycin  study,  vardenafil 
concentration increases with concomitant use, which is explained by the inhibition of its metabolism. 
As a consequence of the above-mentioned results, the SPC clearly states that the concomitant use of 
vardenafil with potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be avoided. With the less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitor, 
erythromycin, the dose of vardenafil should not exceed 5 mg. This is clearly stated in the SPC. 
Concomitant  use  of  vardenafil  and  antacids  does  not  appear  to  influence  systemic  exposure  to 
vardenafil.  There  is  a  small  decrease  in  vardenafil  Cmax,  which  is  probably  not  clinically  relevant.  
A slight but clinically irrelevant increase in bioavailability of vardenafil has been observed when co-
administered with cimetidine, which is likely to be due to the inhibition of CYP3A4 by cimetidine.  
Only  M1  showed  any  potential  for  inhibitory  activity  towards  CYP  3A4.    This  was  further 
investigated  in  an  in  vivo  interaction  study  with  nifedipine  as  standard  CYP  3A4  substrate. 
Comcomitant use showed a marginal decrease of bioavailability of nifedipine. 
The  possible  influence  on  one  of  the  minor  metabolic  pathways  (P450CYP  2C9)  by  the  CYP2C9 
substrate  warfarin  was  also  studied.  No  effect  either  on  pharmacokinetics  or  pharmacodynamics  of 
warfarin was found.  Nevertheless warfarin appears to slightly reduce AUC and Cmax of vardenafil. 
According to the preliminary results from interaction studies with alpha-blockers, the concomitant use 
of vardenafil with alpha blockers may lead to symptomatic hypotension in some patients. Therefore, 
until further information is available, their concomitant use is not recommended.  
10/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  pharmacokinetic  or  pharmacodynamic  interactions  are  shown  with  the  co-administration  of 
vardenafil  and  glibenclamide,  which  is  also  substrate  for  CYP  3A4  and  is  a  high  plasma  protein-
binding drug. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies: 
Since the Phase III development program was performed with the Phase III tablet formulation (which 
is  identical  in  composition  to  the  to  the  tablet  intended  to  be  marketed)  no  bioequivalence  studies 
between the different formulations used in clinical development are mandatory. 
Clinical efficacy  
 The clinical program  was developed to assess the efficacy and safety of vardenafil in  male patients 
with ED. One Phase IIb study and seven Phase III studies were conducted.. An overall total of 5033 
patients  have  been  randomised  to  all  these  studies,  among  which  3876  have  been  randomised  to 
vardenafil. There were 3780 vardenafil-treated patients valid for the safety evaluation and 3728 for the 
intent-to-treat analysis (ITT).  
All clinical studies were performed according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP). 
The  six  placebo-controlled  studies  are  of  parallel-arm  design  and  evaluated  the  at-home  use  of 
vardenafil.  Two  of  them  will  be  considered  in  the  dose  finding  studies.  The  remaining  four  studies 
form the basis for the proof of efficacy of vardenafil. 
The two non placebo controlled studies are long term extensions that will be considered as supportive 
studies. 
Dose response studies 
Doses higher than 20 mg (40 mg) were badly tolerated in clinical pharmacology studies and were not 
finally included in dose finding studies in spite it was initially planned.  
A placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-finding study, investigated the efficacy and safety of 5 mg, 
10  mg  or  20  mg  of  vardenafil  versus  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  erectile  dysfunction.  
In this study the three-vardenafil doses appear better than placebo. 
Another study investigated the 2.5 mg dose in order to define the lowest dose with clinical efficacy. 
The differences from placebo of this dose were statistically significant, nevertheless, the 2.5 mg  dose 
failed to reach the predefined level of clinical relevance. Therefore, the 5 mg dose was considered as 
the minimum efficacious dose 
Doses of 5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg were included in those confirmatory trials versus placebo that are the 
basis for the efficacy demonstration and therefore, the best posology regimen is based on results from 
these studies.  
In relation with the posology regimen, data justify the recommendation of taking the product between 
25 minutes and one hour before starting sexual activity. 
 Main clinical studies 
As commented before, four studies form the basis for efficacy of vardenafil. All four used the same 
three primary efficacy endpoints, two of these are performed in the general population with ED while 
two were performed in specific populations: diabetics in Study 100250 and patients after nerve sparing 
prostatectomy in Study 100285. 
1. 
Description of the study 
All  of  these  studies  followed  a  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  multi-centre,  fixed-dose,  parallel-
group  design.  In  all  studies,  there  was  a  4-week  baseline  period  without  ED  therapy  (including 
devices).  During  the  double-blinded  treatment  period,  visits  were  planned  on  a  monthly  basis.  
11/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  the  last  dose  of  study  medication,  at  day  7  and  day  30  post-treatment  there  was  a  follow-up 
telephone  call  to  collect  data  on  the  occurrence  of  SAEs  and  deaths.  Design  of  pivotal  studies  are 
considered appropriate. 
Different doses of Vardenafil or placebo were to be taken on demand, approximately one hour before 
sexual activity, at a maximum dose of once a day. 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
Three co-Primary efficacy parameters were used: 
• 
• 
• 
The erectile function (EF) domain score of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), 
calculated  as  the  sum  of  scores  from  questions  1  to  5  and  15  at  Week  12,  using  the  last-
observation-carried-forward (LOCF) method to account for missing data. 
Success  in  penetration,  using  question  2  of  the  Sexual  Encounter  Profile:”Were  you  able  to 
insert your penis into your partner’s vagina?”. Answers were to be recorded in the patient diary 
after  every  attempt  at  intercourse  from  randomisation  to  Week  12  and  the  per-patient  overall 
success rate was used.  
Success  in  maintaining  erection  during  intercourse,  using  question  3  of  the  Sexual  Encounter 
Profile: ”Did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse?” Answers 
were to be recorded in the patient diary after every attempt at intercourse from randomisation to 
Week 12 and the per-patient overall success rate was used 
The use of these three related measures of erectile function as three co-primary variables is considered 
adequate.  IIEF  is  a  validated  scale  to  measure  erectile  dysfunction  severity  as  well  as  to  measure  a 
treatment effect based on the retrospective evaluation by the patient of his erectile function in the four 
weeks before the interview. 
Secondary parameters were the global assessment question (GAQ): ”Has the treatment you have been 
taking  over  the  past  4  weeks  improved  your  erections?”  The  GAQ  was  self-administered  and 
answered by ”yes” or ”no”. Patients answering, ”yes” to the GAQ were considered to be responders to 
treatment.  Other  secondary  efficacy  parameters  included  individual  IIEF  questions.  Responses  on 
patient’s  diary  concerning  success  of  intercourse  attempts  and  overall  satisfaction  with  sexual 
experience  were  also  used.    Fugl-Meyer  Quality  of  Life  Questionnaire,  Centre  for  Epidemiological 
Studies  Depression  Scale  (CES-D)  Questionnaire  and,  in  addition,  the  Duke  Health  Profile 
questionnaire was used to assess general health 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
The primary time point for all efficacy variables was 12 weeks after randomisation. Primary efficacy 
analyses were based on the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. A secondary per protocol analyses of the 
primary efficacy parameters (VFE) was performed. Efficacy variables from the IIEF were analysed by 
analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  with  baseline  response  as  covariate  and  terms  for  centre  and 
treatment.  Least  squares  (LS)  means  at  baseline  and  postrandomisation,  together  with  the  standard 
error (SE)  for the LS  means,  were  used. P  values for  each  main effect in  the  model  were  presented 
together with P values obtained from the comparison of each active dose group to placebo. LS mean 
differences between each active dose and placebo and the associated nominal 95% confidence interval 
(CI) and the nominal Bonferroni 98.3% CI were also determined.  
Diary  questions  (including  the  primary  variables  of  penetration  and  maintenance  of  erection)  were 
analysed  by  ANCOVA  on  the  per-patient  success  rate,  with  terms  for  centre  and  treatment  and 
including baseline as a covariate. The per-patient success rate was calculated from the whole duration 
of the trial 
Clinically relevant differences between each of the vardenafil doses and placebo were predefined for 
power calculations as a score difference of at least 5 points for the IIEF-EF domain and a percentage 
12/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response  difference  of  at  least  18%  for  the  diary  questions.  No  clinical  definition  of  responders  has 
been done and consequently no analysis on a responder basis is available.  
RESULTS 
4 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
All  studies  enrolled  men,  18  years  or  older,  with  an  stable  heterosexual  relationship  of  more  than  
6  months  and  with  ED  of  more  than  6  months’  duration,  as  defined  by  the  NIH  Consensus 
Development Panel on Impotence (inability to achieve or maintain an erection of the penis sufficient 
to  permit  satisfactory  sexual  performance).  All  patients  who  had  taken  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medication and for whom pre-and post-baseline efficacy data were available were included in the ITT 
analyses.  Patients  were  required  to  make  at  least  4  attempts  at  sexual  intercourse  on  separate  days 
during the 1-month untreated baseline period, with at least 50% of unsuccessful attempts (according to 
the following questions from the patient diary (at least one question was to be answered ‘no’): “were 
you able to achieve at least a partial erection? “were you able to insert your penis into the partner’s 
vagina?” and ”did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse?”). Because 
the response to treatments for ED in patients with diabetics or prostatectomy may differ from that in 
the general ED population, the diabetics and the post-prostatectomy population was studied separately 
(Studies100250 and 100285). 
Patients with cardiovascular illnesses within the preceding 6 months such as unstable angina, history 
of  myocardial  infarction,  stroke,  ECG  ischaemic  changes  were  excluded  as  well  as  those  with 
uncontrolled  tachyarrhythmia,  as  well  as  patients  with  retinitis  pigmentosa,  ED  after  spinal  cord 
injury, penile anatomic abnormalities, resting hypotension, symptomatic postural hypotension, poorly 
controlled diabetes (HbA1c >12%), concomitant use of nitrates or other nitric oxide donors, use of the 
potent, CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and indinavir were excluded 
from  concomitant  use  with  vardenafil  20  mg  by  protocol  amendment,  patients  with  severe  chronic 
liver disease, liver function test abnormalities (AST, ALT >3 times the upper limit of normal), or renal 
failure (serum creatinine >2.5 mg/dl) were excluded. 
Unresponsiveness  to  sildenafil  therapy  was  an  exclusion  criterion  in  three  of  the  major  efficacy 
studies. Patients with history of radical prostatectomy were excluded for all protocols except 100285. 
5 
Efficacy results  
Study 100249 was a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled, multi-centre, fixed-dose, parallel-
group, 6-month comparison study to investigate the efficacy and safety of 5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg of 
vardenafil. At 12 weeks (primary analysis) for each of the primary endpoints there was a statistically 
significant difference from placebo for all three active groups.  
Patients  at  baseline  were  in  a  moderate  degree  of  ED  based  on  the  EF  domain  score.  At  week  12, 
patients  in  placebo  group  stayed  in  the  same  category  while  patients  in  vardenafil  groups  showed 
mean values of about 18.4, 20.6 (mild to moderate degrees) for vardenafil 5 mg and 10 mg and 21.4 
for vardenafil 20 mg. 
An analysis was performed to relate the response to the time between dosing and the start of sexual 
activity based on the patient´s diary responsesFrom 30 min to 3 hours after taking the study drug, all 
vardenafil doses had higher success rates than the placebo group. 
Study  10128,  the  second  pivotal  clinical  trial,  is  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled 
(Sildenafil),  multi-centre,  fixed-dose,  parallel-group  study.  Primary  analysis  was  the  comparison  of 
vardenafil to placebo. 
The  results  of  the  study  demonstrated  that  5  mg,  10  mg  and  20  mg  of  vardenafil  and  active  control 
showed a statistically and clinically significant improvement relative to placebo in terms of all primary 
13/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
parameters, and  was seen  in both the  ITT and  the  VFE population.  An  increased response was seen 
across the entire dose range with the greatest efficacy at the 20mg dose. Differences between 5  mg,  
10 mg and 20 mg vardenafil treatment effects suggested a non-linear dose relationship for efficacy.  
The  trial  was  also  designed  for  testing  the  non-inferiority  of  vardenafil  10  mg  as  compared  to 
sildenafil 50 mg. Some problems in the study design did not allow the conclusions to be considered as 
reliable. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Study100250,  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  multi-centre,  fixed-dose,  parallel-
group,  3-month  comparison  study  to  investigate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  vardenafil  in  males  with 
erectile dysfunction and diabetes mellitus. Type 1 and 2 diabetes were balanced in all treatment groups 
The  response  of  diabetic  patients  to  treatments  for  ED  has  been  reported  to  be  lower  than  in  the 
general population.  
For  all  treatment  groups  there  was  an  increase  at  Week  12,  compared  with  baseline,  in  all  three 
endpoints.  For  the  ITT  population  and  all  three  primary  efficacy  variables,  the  LS  mean  differences 
between all vardenafil doses and placebo showed that there was a highly and statistically significant 
improvement for patients on vardenafil 10 mg and 20 mg. The improvements over placebo increased 
numerically with  dose  for  all  three  endpoints.  The  results  of  the  per  protocol  analysis  are  similar  to 
that of the ITT population. 
The results of the study demonstrate that 10 mg and 20 mg of vardenafil are effective in the treatment 
of ED in diabetic patients.  
Study  100285,  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  multi-centre,  fixed-dose,  parallel-
group,  3-month  comparison  study  investigate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  vardenafil  in  males  with 
erectile dysfunction following  nerve-sparing radical retropubic  prostatectomy who have more severe 
ED than the previous population studied. Studied doses (10 mg and 20 mg) were more effective than 
placebo  with  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  differences  for  each  of  the  primary 
endpoints,  but  there  were  no  differences  between  the  two  doses.  The  results  of  the  VEF  population 
confirm the results of the ITT population.   
Exploratory analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis). 
Two  efficacy  pools  were  defined.  Efficacy  pool  1  comprised  all  placebo-controlled  studies  in  the 
general  population  with  the  5 mg,  10 mg  and  20 mg  vardenafil  dose  groups,  i.e.  the  pivotal  studies 
100249  and  10128.  Efficacy  pool  2  comprised  all  placebo-controlled  studies  with  the  10 mg  and 
20 mg  dose  arms  in  both  normal  and  special  populations  (10128,  100249,100250  [diabetics]  and 
100285 [prostatectomy]). 
There is a consistent superiority of all vardenafil doses over placebo in all trials and in all three co-
primary variables. 
Some  subgroup  analysis  according  to  demographic  and  disease  conditions  have  been  performed. 
Efficacy is shown in all age groups, aetiology of the ED (organic, psychogenic or mixed), severity and 
duration of the disease, with a trend to higher efficacy as compared to placebo in those patients with 
the most severe disease and for longer duration of the disease. Diabetics and prostatectomised patients 
had, as expected, lower rates of efficacy than the general population. 
Selection of the dose 
The  applicant  proposes  a  starting  dose  of  10  mg,  with  further  increase  to  20  mg  or  decrease  to  
5 depending on response and tolerability.   
There is a clear superiority of 10  mg and  20  mg over 5  mg, with statistically significant differences 
across studies, while differences between 10 mg and 20 mg are minimal 
The  benefit  achieved  with  vardenafil  20  mg  compared  to  that  achieved  with  10  mg  in  the  broad-
spectrum of ED population was not statistically significant. The magnitude of this benefit in diabetic 
patients,  in  patients  with  longer  duration  of  erectile  dysfunction  (>3  years)  and  more  severe  disease 
14/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(EF  domain  <11)  was  clinically  relevant.  These  populations  represent  30%,  66%  and  50%, 
respectively, of the population studied. 
In  addition,  data  from  flexible  dose  studies  presented  by  the  applicant  show  that  for  a  relevant 
proportion of the ED population studied in similar conditions to that of clinical practice there is a need 
for titration to the 20 mg dose of vardenafil to achieve the optimal response. Therefore, from the data 
provided by the applicant it can be concluded that the efficacy and safety profile of the 20 mg dose of 
vardenafil is acceptable and their use is justified for the broad ED population who need it to achieve 
the optimal response.  
Clinical relevance of the Effect 
In  efficacy  pool  1,  the  mean  magnitude  of  effect  in  IIEF-EF  ranged  from  an  improvement  over 
baseline of 5.9 with vardenafil 5 mg to 8.3 with vardenafil 20 mg, as compared to 1.1 with placebo.  
In efficacy pool 2, improvements in IIEF-EF are of 0.8% with placebo and 6.8 and 7.7 with 10 and  
20 mg. 
Improvements  in  success  in  penetration  ranged  from  24%  with  vardenafil  5 mg  to  35.8%  with 
vardenafil 20 mg, compared to 4.6% with placebo. Similar results are showed in pool 2 
Improvement  in  success  of  maintenance  of  erection  for  successful  completion  of  intercourse  ranged 
from 37.9% with 5 mg to 49.7% with 20 mg, as compared to 14.2% with placebo. Again, pool 2 show 
similar results. 
Supportive studies 
One dose ranging phase IIb study (100199), was performed in a selected population  without serious 
medical conditions. There was one extension study with 3 months (100312) and two long-term studies 
with 1 year (10125) and 6 months (10152), respectively, conducted to assess safety, in which efficacy 
parameters were analysed by descriptive statistics only. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based on the pharmacodynamic, safety and tolerability results, it was decided to study doses of 5, 10 
and 20 mg. Vardenafil, at these doses has consistently showed to have superior efficacy to placebo in 
the treatment of patients with erectile dysfunction. This effect has also been demonstrated in diabetic 
and prostatectomised patients with erectile dysfunction at doses of 10 and 20 mg. The magnitude of 
the effect, especially for the 10 and 20 mg doses are clinically. Other populations that might benefit 
from PDE5 inhibitor treatment have not been assessed (e.g. spinal cord injury or other CNS diseases). 
There are data suggesting that the effect of vardenafil in the studied population can be maintained on a 
long-term basis. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A total of 5317 patients were evaluable for safety in Phase I, II and III studies of vardenafil. In these 
studies,  4413  patients  received  vardenafil,  3783  of  whom  were  from  Phase  II  and  III  studies.  
The  primary evaluation of  the  safety of vardenafil was  derived from  6 adequate and  well-controlled 
Phase  IIb  and  III  and  3  non-controlled  Phase  III  trials  involving  3780    patients  with  erectile 
dysfunction, many of whom had  multiple other  medical conditions. Over 1630 patients were treated 
with vardenafil for at least 6 months, of whom over 730 were treated for at least 12 months. 
A pooled safety analysis comprising the whole clinical Phase III study programme was performed. No 
formal  weighting  methods  were  used  when  the  data  were  pooled.  The  8  Phase  III  studies  included 
were pooled as follows: 
15/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Safety Pool 1: placebo-controlled studies using all three vardenafil doses (5, 10, 20 mg; 100249, 
10128)  in  the  general  population.  This  pool  was  designed  to  describe  dose-dependent 
differences  and  interactions  in  AEs  and  other  safety  parameters  (pivotal  studies  in  general 
populations). 
Safety  Pool  2:  placebo-controlled  studies  using  vardenafil  10  and  20 mg  (100249,  10128, 
100250, 100285). This pool was designed to provide support for the benefit/risk assessment of 
vardenafil 10 mg and 20 mg in a pool of ED patients including diabetics and patients with ED 
following  radical  prostatectomy.  These  latter  populations  are  generally  less  responsive  to 
treatment, and co-morbid conditions tend to be more common (all pivotal studies). 
Safety  Pool  3:  placebo-controlled  studies  using  vardenafil  5,  10,  or  20 mg  (100249,  10128, 
100250, 100285, 10232). This pool was the largest placebo-controlled pool and comprised the 
primary  safety  analysis  population  from  which  rates  for  the  various  AEs  were  derived  and  a 
majority of the drug-drug and drug-disease interactions were evaluated. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
The  analysis  of  the  safety  and  tolerability  pool  from  clinical  pharmacological  studies  shows  that 
vardenafil  has  a  safety  profile,  which  is  the  expected  for  its  pharmacological  class,  headache  and 
vasodilatation (flushing) being the most frequently reported adverse events. 
This adverse event profile was confirmed in the Phase III study programme. 
There  was  a  dose-dependent  increase  in  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  AEs  from  placebo  to 
5 mg  (48.3%),  10 mg  (58.7%)  and  20 mg  (65%)  vardenafil  for  most  of  the  reported  adverse  events. 
AEs  that  demonstrated  a  possible  dose-response  relationship  included  headache,  abdominal  pain, 
vasodilatation  (flushing,  warm  sensation),  dyspepsia,  nausea,  dizziness,  and  rhinitis  (safety  pool  1). 
For  safety  pool  2,  these  percentages  were  very  similar  (40.2%  for  placebo,  57.4%  for  vardenafil  
10 mg, 64.3% for vardenafil 20 mg and 60.8% for vardenafil total). The Applicant also reviewed the 
safety of the 20 mg dose of vardenafil in these same fixed dose studies (in general and also in special 
ED populations). The results in the general ED population showed a dose-related increase in the rates 
of AEs and drug-related AE (an increment about 7% in the incidence of AE from vardenafil 10 mg to 
20 mg and 11% in the incidence of drug-related AE). Nevertheless, most of the AE in the 20mg dose 
were  of  mild  intensity  (>50%)and  the  incidence  of  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  and  SAEs  were 
similar  to  that  seen  in  the  10  mg  dose.  In  conclusion,  safety  of  the  20  mg  dose  in  the  general  ED 
population has been adequately demonstrated. Therefore, the benefit/risk profile of the 20 mg dose of 
vardenafil seems acceptable.  
Vardenafil  may decrease  blood pressure. Clinical relevance of such  decreases  was  scarce.  However, 
taken into account that the target population is likely to present risk factor, a relative warning has been 
included in the SPC ,for section 4.8, on syncope. Simultaneous administration of vardenafil to patients 
taking non selective alpha blockers may lead to clinically relevant hypotension. 
Vardenafil treatment was associated with a low incidence of AEs related to vision and eye complaints 
and most of these were of mild intensity. Most patients who experienced these side effects continued 
on treatment, and serious visual AEs related to treatment were not observed. 
Although apparently rare for vardenafil, the colour vision abnormalities are mentioned in section 4.8. 
In addition the clinical relevant of such events are discussed (e.g. a warning on the ability to drive).  
Although not in the clinical Phase IIb and III programme, two cases of priapism were reported in the 
Clinical Pharmacology Programme in subjects taking 40 mg vardernafil. 
Patients who may be particularly at risk of priapism include those with sickle cell anaemia, multiple 
myeloma,  or  leukaemia.  In  addition,  pharmacologic  treatment  of  ED  should  generally  be  used  with 
caution in patients with anatomical deformation of the penis (such as angulation, cavernosal fibrosis, 
or Peyronie’s disease. 
Overall, there were 7 deaths in the clinical Phase IIb/III study programme on vardenafil completed as 
yet:  4  patients  in  the  placebo-controlled  trials  and  3  patients  in  non-controlled  extension  and  safety 
studies. Moreover, one death has occurred in an ongoing trial. 
16/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In total, there were 5 deaths during vardenafil treatment in patients valid for safety. None of the cases 
was attributed to vardenafil.  
Although myocardial infarction was the most common condition associated with death, the proximity 
of time of death to the last dose of vardenafil makes a causal relationship implausible.  
The death rates for vardenafil and placebo were in the same range. 
Discontinuation rate 
In all placebo-controlled Phase III trials (Safety Pool 3), a larger proportion of patients who received 
placebo  discontinued  prematurely  compared  with  patients  who  received  vardenafil.  There  were  a 
higher proportion of patients on placebo who withdrew consent, had insufficient therapeutic effect or 
were lost to follow-up. A higher proportion of patients in the vardenafil group (3.7%) withdrew due to 
AEs compared to the placebo group (1.4%) 
Regarding discontinuations in relation to dosage, there was an increase in the rate of discontinuation 
due to AEs with increasing doses of vardenafil (placebo: 2%, vardenafil 5 mg: 3%, vardenafil 10 mg: 
3%, vardenafil 20 mg: 7%). 
Among the vardenafil dose groups, the rate of discontinuation from insufficient therapeutic effect and 
withdrawal of consent was highest for vardenafil 5 mg. 
Experience  on  long-term  treatment  from  the  12-month  safety  trial  10125  the  6-month  safety  trial 
10152 reveals  no indication of a deviating safety and tolerability  profile  of  vardenafil when  used as 
proposed for long-term management of ED. 
The  safety  and  tolerability  of  vardenafil  5 mg,  10 mg  and  20 mg  were  assessed  in  relation  to  both 
placebo  and  sildenafil  50  mg  over  a  period  of  75-80  days.  Vardenafil  10 mg  seems  to  be  similar  to 
sildenafil 50 mg.  
Overdosage 
Vardenafil has been administered at doses of up to 4 times the highest dose recommended for clinical 
use.  The  experience  in  healthy  volunteers  at  dose  levels  above  20 mg  describes  dose-limiting 
symptoms. If overdose occur, these symptoms may be severe, but are not anticipated to be associated 
with evidence of organ toxicity and are expected to be self-limiting. 
Laboratory findings and other parameters 
Evaluation of clinical laboratory data included haematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis. 
There were no clinically significant changes in laboratory parameters during the studies. 
Regarding the effect of vardenafil on QTc interval, it can be concluded that vardenafil does not affect 
the QT interval in a clinically significant way. 
Vardenafil  10  mg  increased  the  heart  rate  by  2  beats/min  and  Vardenafil  20  mg  by  3  beats/min 
compared to placebo. These increases may be considered as of no clinical relevance. Regarding blood 
pressure,  changes  were  comparable  to  placebo,  and  even  vardenafil  20  mg  reduced  sitting  systolic 
blood pressure to a lesser extent than placebo. 
Retinal  function  was  explored  and  a  mild  and  transient  impairment  of  colour  discrimination  in  the 
blue-green range (tritane axis) and in the purple range (tetertane axis) using the Farnsworth-Munsell 
100 test was detected with vardenafil 40 mg.  
Effects on sperm function have been assessed, and no abnormalities were found.  
17/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup  analyses  raised  no  concerns  regarding  an  interaction  between  the  incidence  of  adverse 
events  with  age,  race,  body  mass  index,  alcohol  consumption,  smoking,  cardiovascular  disease, 
pulmonary  disease,  hyperlipidemia,  diabetes  mellitus,  hypertension,    concomitant  antihypertensive 
medications, weak to moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or aspirin. 
Safety in flexible dose studies 
Study 10194 was a Phase III extension of study 10125 with a flexible-dose design. The adverse event 
rates were determined based on the “preferred” dose. This analysis, rather describes the overall safety 
experience  of  the  subset  of  patients,  who  arrive  non-randomly  at  a  specific  dose  of  vardenafil 
(“preferred dose”) at the last titration visit. 
There is no evidence for greater rates of adverse events in patients who elect treatment with 20 mg. 
Study  10769  was  a  12-week,  randomised,  double-blind  parallel  group,  placebo-controlled  Phase  III 
study  with  a flexible-dose  design.  The  tolerability  of  vardenafil-treated  patients  overall  in  this  study 
was  favorable  compared  to  those  treated  with  placebo.  There  was  no  apparent  difference  in  the 
occurrence  of  adverse  events,  for  either  the  vardenafil  (10  or  20  mg  dose)  or  the  placebo  treatment 
group. 
There were no patients who titrated up to 20 mg who withdrew from the study for an adverse event.  
There were a total of 11 patients who reduced their dose for a drug-related adverse event, of whom 5 
were  on  vardenafil  20 mg  at  the  time  of  their  adverse  event.  None  of  the  events  that  led  to  down-
titration  and  were  attributed  to  study  drug  was  considered  serious,  and  all  but  two  were  mild  or 
moderate in intensity. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The number of exposed patients was appropriate for safety evaluation purposes. The most frequently 
reported  adverse  events  associated  with  vardenafil  were  headache,  vasodilatation  (flushing,  warm 
sensation),  rhinitis,  and  gastrointestinal  related  disorders.  The  type  of  AEs  are  expected  from  the 
pharmacological  class;  headache,  vasodilatation,  dyspepsia,  rhinitis/sinusitis,  abnormal  vision,  and 
back pain. The AEs typical for a PDE5 inhibitor appear to be dose-dependent.   The overall incidence 
of  SAEs  and  the  nature  of  individual  AEs  do  not  suggest  a  specific  risk  pattern  during  vardenafil 
treatment. 
On  the  basis  of  the  data  provided,  the  overall  safety  profile  of  vardenafil  is  considered  acceptable.  
The safety concerns with the use of vardenafil have been addressed in the SPC with the inclusion of 
appropriate warnings, precautions and contraindications. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow  up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  vardenafil  exerts 
PDE5  inhibitor  activity.  This  causes  smooth  muscle  relaxation,  inducing  a  rise  in  intracavernosal 
pressure  and  consequently  penile  erection.  A  new  animal  model  using  conscious  adult  male  rabbits 
was developed to evaluate the efficacy of vardenafil in vivo. From the pharmacokinetic point of view, 
rats,  mice  and  dogs  were  the  most  relevant  species  for  preclinical  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  
18/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  main  toxicity  findings  are  well  understood  and  do  not  raise  concern  for  human  safety.This 
information has been included in the SPC 
Efficacy 
Vardenafil, at the doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg, has consistently showed superior efficacy to placebo in 
the  treatment  of  patients  with  erectile  dysfunction  from  a  broad  spectrum  of  etiology  (including 
diabetes  and  prostatectomised  patients).  In  order  for  vardenafil  to  be  effective,  sexual  stimulation  is 
required. The magnitude of the effect, especially for the 10 and 20 mg doses are clinically relevant and 
might  be  of  about  the  same  magnitude  as  for  the  other  available  PDE5  inhibitor.  There  are  data 
suggesting  that  the  effect  of  vardenafil  in  the  studied  population  can  be  maintained  on  a  long-term 
basis. 
The proposed starting dose is 10 mg. Based on efficacy and tolerability the dose may be increased to 
20 mg or decreased to 5 mg. For elderly people, the proposed starting dose is 5 mg, and it also should 
be considered for those with sever renal impairment, hepatic impairment and those taking concomitant 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, since vardenafil clearance is reduced in these populations. 
Safety 
Several  special  patient  groups,  those  excluded  from  the  clinical  studies  (severe  hepatic  impairment, 
hypotension,  recent  history  of  stroke  or  myocardial  infarction  and  known  hereditary  degenerative 
retinal  disorders  such  as  retinitis  pigmentosa)  and  those  for  who  sexual  activity  is  inadvisable  (e.g. 
patients with  severe cardiovascular disorders such as unstable angina  or severe cardiac failure)  have 
been  contra-indicated.  Since  other  PDE5  inhibitors  have  been  shown  to  potentiate  the  hypotensive 
effects  of  nitrates,  co-administration  with  nitric  oxide  donors  or  nitrates  in  any  form  is  contra-
indicated. The SPC includes appropriate warnings, precautions and contra-indications.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
In the light of the above-mentioned considerations, the overall benefit/risk assessment for vardenafil 
was considered to be positive for the indication “treatment of erectile dysfunction”. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, as well as the commitments to be 
undertaking by the applicant, the CPMP considered  by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of this 
medicinal product in the treatment of erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve or maintain 
a  penile  erection  sufficient  for  satisfactory  sexual  performance  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
19/19 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
