Summary of Risk Management Plan for Levitra 
(vardenafil) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Levitra. 
Levitra’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Levitra should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Levitra should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns will be included in updates of Levitra’s RMP. 
I. 
 The Medicine and what it is used for 
Levitra is authorised for treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult men. Erectile dysfunction is the 
inability to achieve or maintain a penile erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. 
•
•
•
•
Each tablet of 5 mg film-coated tablets contains 5 mg of vardenafil (as hydrochloride).
Each tablet of 10 mg film-coated tablets contains 10 mg of vardenafil (as hydrochloride).
Each tablet of 20 mg film-coated tablets contains 20 mg of vardenafil (as hydrochloride).
Each tablet of 10 mg orodispersible tablets contains 10 mg of vardenafil (as hydrochloride).
Further information about the evaluation of Levitra’s benefits can be found in Levitra’s EPAR, 
available on the EMA website. 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to 
Minimise or Further Characterise the Risks 
The risks of Levitra, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging
The authorised pack size—the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly
The medicine’s legal status—the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PBRER/PSUR, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Levitra is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Vardenafil has been marketed for more than 15 years; all the risks mentioned as per previous 
RMPs are fully characterised and appropriately managed through routine risk minimisations and 
there are no outstanding ongoing additional pharmacovigilance activities; therefore, all the 
important identified risks have been be removed from the safety specifications. Regarding the 
important potential risks, it is very unlikely that any pharmacovigilance activity can further 
characterise these risks; thus, it was considered that all the important potential risks have been 
deleted. 
The summary of safety concerns is presented as follows: 
Table 1: Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
• 
• 
• 
None 
None 
None 
II.B  Summary of Important Risks 
Not applicable, as there were no important identified risk, potential risk, and missing information. 
II.C  Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Levitra. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Levitra. 
