17 October 2019 
EMA/684494/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): vardenafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003098/201903 
Period covered by the PSUR: from 04 March 2016 to 04 March 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for vardenafil, the scientific conclusions 
of the CHMP are as follows:  
Central nervous system haemorrhages and cerebrovascular accidents (CVA) have been monitored in the 
last PSURs. An additional analysis, including data from clinical trials, post marketing experience and 
literature showed that some occurred with a close temporal association (the two first weeks) after the 
intake of vardenafil. Therefore, the current information of section 4.8 should be revised to highlight the 
temporal association with vardenafil. In addition, in line with the product information of other PDE5s, a 
warning should also be included in section 4.4 to highlight these events, and reflect that it is not possible 
to definitively determine whether these events are related directly to any risk factors, to vardenafil, to 
sexual activity, or to a combination of these or other factors.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for vardenafil the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing vardenafil is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/684494/2019 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
