29 May 2019 
EMA/308741/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): carbidopa / entacapone / levodopa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000547/201810 
 Period covered by the PSUR: 18 October 2015 to 17 October 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for carbidopa / entacapone / levodopa, 
the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS) is described as a compulsive pattern of dopaminergic misuse 
above doses adequate to control motor symptoms. Dopamine dysregulation syndrome is a 
well-recognised risk for dopaminergic medication used in Parkinson’s disease. Dopamine dysregulation 
syndrome is mentioned in the product information of other dopaminergic medication used in Parkinson’s 
disease such as levodopa/carbidopa, apomorphine, levodopa/benserazide, rotigotine and ropinirole. 
Dopamine dysregulation syndrome was included in five adverse drug reaction reports during this PSUR 
reporting period. Cumulatively, dopamine dysregulation syndrome has been included in 10 reports. As 
part of this PSUSA procedure, update of the levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone SmPCs with identical 
changes regarding dopamine dysregulation syndrome as agreed previously by the CMDh in the PSUSA 
process for levodopa/carbidopa containing products is considered warranted. The SmPC section 4.4 and 
4.8 are being updated to add Dopamine Dysregulation Syndrome (DDS) with a frequency “not known” 
and to add further explanation with regards to DDS to section 4.8 to increase awareness and 
understanding on the pathology and add a warning to section 4.4 to recommend relevant precautions. 
The Package leaflet is updated accordingly.   
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for carbidopa / entacapone / levodopa the CHMP is of the opinion 
that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing carbidopa / entacapone / levodopa is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/308741/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
