ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Libmeldy 2-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
2.   QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1   General description 
Libmeldy (atidarsagene autotemcel) is a genetically modified autologous CD34+ cells enriched 
population that contains haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) transduced ex vivo using a 
lentiviral vector expressing the human arylsulfatase A (ARSA) gene. 
2.2   Qualitative and quantitative composition 
Each patient-specific infusion bag of Libmeldy contains atidarsagene autotemcel at a batch-dependent 
concentration of genetically modified autologous CD34+ cells enriched population.  
The medicinal product is packaged in one or more infusion bags overall containing a dispersion of 
2-10 x106 cells/mL of viable CD34+ cells enriched population suspended in a cryopreservative 
solution.  
Each infusion bag contains 10 to 20 mL of Libmeldy. 
The quantitative information of medicinal product, including the number of infusion bags (see section 
6) to be administered, is presented in the Lot Information Sheet located inside the lid of  the 
cryoshipper used for transport.  
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 3.5 mg sodium per mL and 55 mg dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) per 
mL. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for infusion. 
A clear to slightly cloudy, colourless to yellow or pink dispersion. 
4.   CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1   Therapeutic indication 
Libmeldy is indicated for the treatment of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) characterized by 
biallelic mutations in the arylsulfatase A (ARSA) gene leading to a reduction of the ARSA enzymatic 
activity: 
- 
in children with late infantile or early juvenile forms, without clinical manifestations of the 
disease, 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
in children with the early juvenile form, with early clinical manifestations of the disease, who still 
have the ability to walk independently and before the onset of cognitive decline (see section 5.1). 
4.2   Posology and method of administration 
Libmeldy must be administered in a qualified treatment centre by a physician with experience in 
Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) and trained for administration and management of 
patients treated with the medicinal product. 
Posology 
Libmeldy is intended for autologous use (see section 4.4) and should only be administered once. 
The dose of Libmeldy must be determined based on the patient’s body weight at the time of infusion.  
Treatment consists of a single dose for infusion containing a dispersion of viable CD34+
more infusion bags.  
The minimum recommended dose of Libmeldy is 3 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg of body weight. In clinical 
studies, doses up to 30 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg have been administered.  
The maximum volume of Libmeldy to be administered should remain < 20% of the patient’s estimated 
plasma volume (see section 4.4 and section 6.6). 
See the accompanying Lot Information Sheet (LIS) for additional information pertaining to dose. 
 cells in one or 
Peripheral blood mobilisation and apheresis  
The autologous CD34+ cells are isolated from mobilised peripheral blood (mPB). This is achieved by 
apheresis procedure(s) following peripheral blood mobilisation.  
For manufacture of Libmeldy, the patient must be able to donate a minimum of 8 × 106 CD34+ 
cells/kg, considering that the optimal range is between 20-30 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg.  
The minimum CD34+ cell quantity may be achieved using one or more cycles of apheresis.  
If, after medicinal product manufacturing, the minimum dose of Libmeldy of 3 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg is 
not achieved, the patient may undergo a further mobilisation protocol with one or more cycles of 
apheresis, in order to obtain more cells for additional manufacture (see Mobilisation and apheresis in 
section 5.1). 
A back-up collection of HSPC containing at least 2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg is also required for use as 
rescue treatment should the quality of Libmeldy be compromised after initiation of myeloablative 
conditioning and before Libmeldy infusion, failure of primary engraftment, or prolonged bone marrow 
aplasia after treatment with Libmeldy (see section 4.4). 
These cells must be collected from the patient and be cryopreserved according to institutional 
procedures prior to myeloablative conditioning. The back-up cells may be harvested either through 
mPB apheresis or bone marrow harvest.  
Peripheral blood mobilisation 
Patients are required to undergo HSPC mobilisation with Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
(G-CSF) with or without plerixafor followed by apheresis to obtain CD34+ stem cells for medicinal 
product manufacturing (see section 5.1 for a description of the mobilisation regimen used in clinical 
studies).    
Pre-treatment conditioning 
The treating physician should confirm that autologous HSPC gene therapy administration is clinically 
appropriate for the patient before myeloablative conditioning is initiated (see section 4.4).  
A myeloablative conditioning is required before infusion of Libmeldy to promote efficient 
engraftment of the genetically modified autologous CD34+ cells (see section 5.1 for a description of 
the myeloablative regimen used in clinical studies).  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Busulfan is the recommended conditioning medicinal product.  
Myeloablative conditioning should not begin until the complete set of infusion bag(s) constituting the 
dose of Libmeldy has been received and stored at the qualified treatment centre, and the availability of 
the back-up collection is confirmed.  
Concurrently with the conditioning regimen, and prior to treatment with Libmeldy, it is recommended 
that patients receive prophylaxis for veno-occlusive disease (VOD) and related endothelial injury 
complications i.e. transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TA-TMA) or atypical 
haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), in line with local guidelines.   
Depending on the myeloablative conditioning regimen administered, prophylaxis for seizures should 
also be considered. Phenytoin is not recommended as it may increase busulfan clearance.   
Prophylactic and empiric use of anti-infectives (bacterial, fungal, viral) should be considered for the 
prevention and management of infections especially during the neutropenic period following 
conditioning.  Routine monitoring of most common viruses subject to re-activation is recommended as 
per local guidelines. Infection control measures and isolation procedures should be employed during 
the hospitalization according to local standards. 
Pre-medication 
It is recommended that pre-medication with intravenous chlorpheniramine (0.25 mg/kg, max. dose 
10 mg), or equivalent medicinal products, be administered 15-30 minutes before the infusion of 
Libmeldy to reduce the possibility of an infusion reaction.  
Special populations 
Elderly  
Libmeldy has not been studied in patients > 65 years of age.  
Renal impairment 
Libmeldy has not been studied in patients with renal impairment. Patients should be assessed for renal 
impairment to ensure autologous HSPC gene therapy administration is appropriate. No dose 
adjustment is required. 
Hepatic impairment 
Libmeldy has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients should be assessed for 
hepatic impairment to ensure autologous HSPC gene therapy administration is appropriate. No dose 
adjustment is required. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Libmeldy have not yet been established in patients with the late juvenile 
form of the disease (i.e. with a typical onset after 7 years of age). No data are available.  
Method of administration  
Libmeldy is for intravenous infusion only.  
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
This medicinal product contains genetically modified human cells. Healthcare professionals should 
therefore take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and glasses) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases when handling the product. 
For instructions on preparation, accidental exposure and disposal of Libmeldy, see section 6.6. 
Preparation for infusion 
Before administration, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the unique patient 
information on the Libmeldy infusion bag(s) and accompanying documentation. The total number of 
infusion bags to be administered must also be confirmed with the patient specific information on the 
Lot information sheet (LIS) (see section 4.4). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The timing of thaw and infusion of Libmeldy should be coordinated. The infusion start time should be 
confirmed in advance and adjusted for thaw so that Libmeldy is available for infusion when the patient 
is ready. To maintain product viability, as soon as thawing is complete, it is recommended that 
Libmeldy be administered immediately. Administration must be completed within 2 hours from the 
time of thawing.   
Administration 
Administer the product as an intravenous infusion via a central venous catheter. When more than one 
bag of Libmeldy is needed, only one bag of medicinal product should be infused per hour. Each bag 
should be infused at an infusion rate which does not exceed 5 mL/kg/h, within approximately 
30 minutes. The recommended administration set consists of a blood transfusion set equipped with a 
200 µm filter (see section 6.6).  
For detailed instructions on preparation, administration, accidental exposure and disposal of Libmeldy, 
see section 6.6. 
4.3   Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Previous treatment with haematopoietic stem cells gene therapy. 
Contraindications to the mobilisation and the myeloablative medicinal products must be considered. 
4.4   Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient must 
be kept for a period of 30 years after expiry date of the product. 
Autologous use  
Libmeldy is intended solely for autologous use and must not, under any circumstances, be 
administered to other patients. Libmeldy must not be administered if the information on the product 
labels and Lot Information Sheet (LIS) do not match the patient’s identity. 
Rapidly progressive phase of the disease 
Treatment with Libmeldy should be performed before the disease enters its rapidly progressive phase. 
Eligibility to treatment with Libmeldy should initially be assessed by the treating physician via full 
neurological examination, motor function assessment and neurocognitive assessment, as appropriate 
for the patients’ age.  
Prior to the commencement of cellular harvest, the treating physician should ensure that the patient has 
not clinically deteriorated. Thereafter, prior to the commencement of conditioning, the treating 
physician should ensure that autologous HSPC gene therapy administration remains clinically 
appropriate for the patient, and that treatment with Libmeldy is still indicated. 
Mobilisation and myeloablative conditioning medicinal products 
Warnings and precautions of the mobilisation and myeloablative conditioning medicinal products 
must be considered.  
Central venous catheter (CVC) complications including infections and thromboses 
5 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections related to the use of CVCs have been reported in clinical studies and there is a risk of 
thrombosis associated with the CVC. Patients should be closely monitored for potential infections and 
catheter-related events. 
Transmission of an infectious agent  
Although Libmeldy is tested for sterility and mycoplasma, a risk of transmission of infectious agents 
exists. Healthcare professionals administering Libmeldy should therefore monitor patients for signs 
and symptoms of infections after treatment and treat appropriately, if needed.  
Interference with virological testing 
Due to limited and short spans of identical genetic information between the lentiviral vector used to 
create Libmeldy and HIV, some HIV nucleic acid tests (NAT) may give a false positive result. 
Patients who have received Libmeldy should not be screened for HIV infection using a PCR-based 
assay. 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Libmeldy must not donate blood, organs, tissues and cells for transplantation. 
This information is provided in the Patient Alert Card which must be given to the patient after 
treatment.  
Hypersensitivity and infusion-related reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may be due to dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) 
in Libmeldy. Patients not previously exposed to DMSO should be observed closely. Vital signs (blood 
pressure, heart rate, and oxygen saturation) and the occurrence of any symptom should be monitored 
prior to the start of the infusion, approximately every ten minutes during the infusion and every hour, 
for 3 hours, after the infusion. 
When more than one bag of Libmeldy is needed, it should be ensured prior to infusion that the volume 
of medicinal product to be infused is compatible with the recommended limit of DMSO, i.e. the total 
volume of DMSO administered should remain < 1% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume. The 
maximum volume of Libmeldy to be administered should therefore remain < 20% of the patient’s 
estimated plasma volume (see section 6.6). 
Also, when more than one bag of Libmeldy is needed, only one bag of medicinal product should be 
infused per hour. 
Engraftment failure 
In clinical studies, no patients failed to engraft bone marrow, as measured by neutrophil count in 
peripheral blood. Failure of neutrophil engraftment is a short-term but potentially important risk, 
defined as failure to reach an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) > 500 cells/μL associated with no 
evidence of bone marrow recovery (i.e. hypocellular marrow) by day 60 after Libmeldy infusion. In 
case of engraftment failure, the non-transduced back-up stem cells should be infused according to 
local standards (see section 4.2).  
Prolonged cytopenia  
Patients may exhibit severe cytopenias, including severe neutropenia [defined as Absolute Neutrophil 
Count (ANC) < 500 cells/μL] and prolonged thrombocytopenia, for several weeks following 
myeloablative conditioning and Libmeldy infusion. In clinical studies, haematological recovery after 
conditioning with busulfan was typically seen four to five weeks from the day of infusion of 
Libmeldy. In the clinical study with the cryopreserved (commercial) formulation, neutrophil 
engraftment occurred after a median (min, max) of 36.5 (31-40) days after gene-therapy. Patients 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
should, therefore, be monitored for signs and symptoms of cytopenia for at least 6 weeks after 
infusion. 
Red blood cells should be monitored according to medical judgment until engraftment of these cells 
and recovery are achieved. Supportive transfusion of red cells and platelets should be given according 
to medical judgement and institutional practice. Blood cell count determination and other appropriate 
testing should be promptly considered whenever clinical symptoms suggestive of anaemia arise. 
If cytopenia persists beyond six to seven weeks, despite the use of granulocyte mobilising medicinal 
products, the non-transduced back up stem cells should be infused. If cytopenia persists despite 
infusion of non-transduced back-up stem cells, alternative treatments should be considered. 
Delayed platelet engraftment  
Platelet engraftment is defined as the first of 3 consecutive days with platelet values ≥ 20 x 109/L 
obtained on different days after Libmeldy infusion, with no platelet transfusion administered for 
7 days immediately preceding and during the evaluation period (up to 60 days post gene therapy). 
During the clinical development, 4/35 patients (11.4%) reported delayed platelet engraftment (median: 
73.5 days, range 65-109 days) which was not correlated with an increased incidence of bleeding. As 
part of the standard of care/prophylaxis, all patients in the integrated safety set (N=29) received 
transfusion support with platelets. Platelets counts should be monitored according to medical judgment 
until engraftment of these cells and recovery is achieved. Supportive transfusion of platelets should be 
given according to medical judgement and institutional practice. 
Metabolic acidosis 
Prior to a treatment with Libmeldy, the presence of renal tubular acidosis should be evaluated 
alongside risks of the conditioning medicinal product and risks of the gene therapy procedure, which 
may contribute to the development of metabolic acidosis. Acid-base status should be monitored 
throughout conditioning and until the patient is no longer under metabolic stress. The treating 
physician should consider sodium bicarbonate replacement alongside any other required treatment and 
should aim to correct any concurrent adverse reaction(s) that might contribute to metabolic acidosis. 
Thyroid monitoring   
Transient increases in thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free T4 (FT4; thyroxine) and free T3 (FT3; 
tri-iodothyronine) were observed in some patients during clinical studies. Considering that thyroid 
disorders could potentially be masked by critical illness or induced by concomitant medication, 
patients should be assessed for thyroid function and structure prior to treatment with Libmeldy. 
Thyroid function and structure should also be monitored in the short term after treatment, and as 
necessary thereafter. 
Risk of insertional oncogenesis 
There is a theoretical risk of leukaemia or lymphoma after treatment with Libmeldy.  In the event that 
leukaemia or lymphoma is detected in any patient who received Libmeldy, blood samples should be 
collected for integration site analysis. 
Anti-ARSA antibodies 
During clinical development, anti-ARSA antibodies (AAA) were reported in 5 patients. Titers were 
generally low and resolved spontaneously or after treatment with rituximab (see section 4.8). No 
impacts on the clinical efficacy or safety outcomes were observed.   
Monitoring of AAA is recommended prior to treatment, between 1 and 2 months after gene therapy, 
and then at 6 months, 1 year, 3 years, 5 years, 7 years, 9 years, 12 years, 15 years post treatment.  
In a case of disease onset or significant disease progression, additional AAA monitoring is 
recommended. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serological testing  
Libmeldy has not been studied in patients with HIV-1, HIV-2, HTLV-1, HTLV-2, HBV, HCV or 
mycoplasma infection.  
All patients should be tested for HIV-1/2, HTLV-1/2, HBV, HCV and mycoplasma prior to 
mobilisation to ensure acceptance of the cellular source material for Libmeldy manufacturing.  
Anti-retroviral use  
Patients should not take anti-retroviral medicinal products from at least one month prior to 
mobilisation until at least 7 days after Libmeldy infusion (see section 4.5). If a patient requires 
anti-retrovirals following exposure to HIV/HTLV, initiation of Libmeldy treatment should be delayed 
until an HIV/HTLV western blot and viral load assay have been performed at 6 months post-exposure. 
After Libmeldy administration  
After the infusion, standard procedures for patient management after HSPC transplantation should be 
followed.   
Immunoglobulin G should be maintained above 5 g/L to prevent potential late infections (occurring 
later than 100 days post therapy) associated with severe hypogammaglobinaemia, resulting from 
apheresis and conditioning. 
Any blood products required within the first 3 months after Libmeldy infusion should be irradiated. 
Long-term follow-up 
Patients are expected to be enrolled in a long-term follow-up scheme in order to better understand the 
long-term safety and efficacy of Libmeldy.  
Sodium content  
This medicinal product contains 35–560 mg sodium per dose, which is equivalent to 2 to 28% of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5  
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
The nature of Libmeldy is such that no pharmacokinetic interactions are expected with other medicinal 
products. 
Patients should not take anti-retroviral medicinal products from at least one month prior to 
mobilisation until at least 7 days after Libmeldy infusion (see section 4.4). 
Live vaccines 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines during or following treatment with Libmeldy has 
not been studied. As a precautionary measure, vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended for 
at least 6 weeks prior to the start of myeloablative conditioning, during Libmeldy treatment, and until 
haematological recovery following treatment. 
4.6   Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
As Libmeldy is not intended for use in adults, human data on use during pregnancy or lactation and 
animal reproduction studies are not available.  
With regard to fertility, consult the SmPC of the myeloablative conditioning medicinal product. It 
should be noted that the treating physician should inform the patient’s parents/carers about options for 
cryopreservation of spermatogonial stem cells or ovarian tissue. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7   Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant. 
4.8   Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of Libmeldy was evaluated in 35 patients with MLD.  
The median duration of follow-up in the integrated safety data set, which included 29 patients treated 
with the fresh (investigational) formulation was 4.51 years (range: 0.64 to 8.85 years). Three patients 
died and a total of 26 patients remained in the follow-up phase. 
The median duration of follow-up in the 6 patients treated with the cryopreserved (commercial) 
formulation was 0.87 years (range: 0.0 to 1.47 years). All of them remained in the follow-up phase 
(see section 5.1). 
Given the small patient population, adverse reactions in the table below do not provide a complete 
perspective on the nature and frequency of these events. 
Treatment with Libmeldy is preceded by medical interventions, namely haematopoietic stem cell 
collection through peripheral blood mobilisation with G-CSF with or without plerixafor followed by 
apheresis, and myeloablative conditioning (preferably using busulfan), which carry their own risks. 
When assessing the safety of a treatment with Libmeldy, the safety profile and product information of 
the medicinal products used for peripheral blood mobilisation and myeloablative conditioning should 
be considered, in addition to the risks linked to the gene therapy.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA body system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as: very common (≥ 1/10), and common (≥ 1/100 and < 1/10).  
Table 1  
Adverse reactions attributed to Libmeldy  
System Organ Class 
Immune system disorders 
Very Common 
Antibody Test Positive  
(Anti ARSA Antibody) 
Common 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2  
Adverse reactions potentially attributed to myeloablative conditioning* 
System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Very Common 
Febrile neutropenia, 
Neutropenia 
Metabolic acidosis 
Stomatitis, Vomiting 
Hepatomegaly, 
Veno-occlusive liver 
disease 
Ovarian failure 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Common 
Cytomegalovirus viraemia, 
Pneumonia, Staphylococcal 
infection, Urinary tract infection, 
Viral infection 
Anaemia, Thrombocytopenia 
Fluid overload 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Epistaxis, Oropharyngeal pain 
Ascites, Diarrhoea, Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, Nausea 
Hypertransaminasaemia 
Skin exfoliation 
Back pain, Bone pain 
Oliguria 
Pyrexia 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased, Aspartate 
aminotransferase increased, 
Aspergillus test positive 
* Based on 29 patients who have undergone myeloablative conditioning by busulfan in the integrated 
data set.  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Presence of Anti ARSA Antibodies 
Five out of 35 patients tested positive for anti-ARSA antibodies (AAA) at various post-treatment time 
points and had the event “Antibody test positive / Presence of antibodies against arylsulfatase A” 
reported by the Investigator.  
Antibody titres were generally low and resolved either spontaneously or after a short course of 
rituximab.  
In all patients with positive AAA test results, no negative effects were observed in the post-treatment 
ARSA activity of peripheral blood or bone marrow cellular subpopulations nor in the ARSA activity 
within the cerebrospinal fluid.  
Patients treated with Libmeldy should be regularly monitored for AAA (see section 4.4).  
Peripheral blood mobilisation and apheresis  
During the clinical studies, haematopoietic stem cell collection was performed either through bone 
marrow (BM) harvest or peripheral blood mobilisation. The safety profile of BM harvest and 
mobilisation/apheresis were consistent with the known safety and tolerability of both procedures and 
the SmPC of mobilisation agents (G-CSF and plerixafor).  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No serious adverse events were reported as potentially attributable to BM harvest within the range of 
BM volumes harvested (median volume was 35.5 mL/kg; range: 15.1-56.4 mL/kg). In the Integrated 
Safety Set (n=29), one patient experienced bone pain, which was qualified as a grade 2 adverse event 
and deemed related to the BM harvest procedure, but unrelated to the volume harvested.  
No serious adverse events were reported as potentially attributable to mobilisation and apheresis and 
none of the patients who underwent mobilisation experienced any adverse events in the pre-treatment 
phase which could have been attributed to the mobilising agents. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9   Overdose 
No data from clinical studies are available regarding overdose of Libmeldy. 
5.  
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other haematological agents, ATC code: A16AB21. 
Mechanism of action 
Libmeldy is an ex vivo genetically modified autologous CD34+ haematopoietic stem and progenitor 
cell (HSPC) gene therapy. Autologous CD34+ HSPCs are collected from mobilised peripheral blood 
(mPB) and transduced with a lentiviral vector (ARSA LVV), which inserts one or more copies of the 
human ARSA complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) into the cell’s genome, so that 
genetically modified cells become capable of expressing the functional ARSA enzyme. When 
administered to the patient following the administration of a myeloablative conditioning regimen, the 
genetically modified cells engraft and are able to repopulate the haematopoietic compartment.  A 
subpopulation of the infused HSPCs and/or their myeloid progeny is able to migrate across the blood 
brain barrier to the brain and engraft as central nervous system (CNS) resident microglia and 
perivascular CNS macrophages as well as endoneural macrophages in the peripheral nervous system 
(PNS). These genetically modified cells can produce and secrete the functional ARSA enzyme, which 
can be taken up by surrounding cells, a process known as cross-correction, and used to break down, or 
prevent the build-up, of harmful sulfatides. 
Following successful and stable engraftment in the patient, the effects of the product are expected to 
be persistent. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Durable and stable peripheral engraftment of genetically modified cells was observed from 1-month 
post Libmeldy administration in all evaluable patients. A persistent vector copy number (VCN) was 
also observed in CD34+ cells isolated from the bone marrow throughout the follow-up period. These 
biological findings demonstrate a sustained multilineage engraftment of gene-corrected cells, which is 
essential for supporting the long-term production of ARSA and resulting long-term clinical benefit. 
At Year 1 post-treatment, the proportion of BM-derived colonies harbouring the LVV genome 
(%LV+) in the overall treated population was 54.8% (range: 20.0% to 100%, [N=23]). The proportion 
of BM-derived colonies harbouring the LVV genome (%LV+) at Year 5 was 45.0% (range: 18.8% to 
90.6% [n=6, 4 Late infantile (LI) and 2 Early Juvenile (EJ)]), indicative of stable engraftment over 
time in the treated population. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconstitution of ARSA activity in the haematopoietic system was observed in all MLD patients 
treated, with a progressive reconstitution of ARSA levels in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells 
(PBMCs) which reached values within the normal reference range by 3 months post-treatment and 
remained stable within or above the normal range throughout the duration of the follow-up (see Figure 
1).  
Figure 1 
ARSA activity in PBMCs over time (geometric mean and 95% CIs), by disease 
subtype (integrated efficacy set; N=29) 
Note: Values < LLQ are imputed at LLQ. LLQ is 25.79 nmol/mg/h. GMs and 95% CIs are presented where there are at least 
3 patients with non-missing data. ARSA: arylsulfatase A; CI: confidence interval; GM: geometric mean; LLQ: lower limit of 
quantification; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells. 
ARSA activity was also measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a surrogate compartment of 
metabolic correction in the brain. The ARSA activity in CSF went from undetectable at Baseline to 
detectable in all evaluable patients by Month 6 post-treatment and reached reference range levels at 
Year 1 post-treatment. Thereafter, central reconstitution of ARSA enzymatic activity remained stable 
within the reference range. 
Clinical efficacy 
Clinical efficacy was based on the integrated analysis of results from 29 early-onset MLD patients 
treated with Libmeldy prepared as a fresh (non-cryopreserved) formulation. These results were 
generated in twenty (20) patients treated in the Registrational Study (Study 201222 - an open-label, 
non-randomized, single-arm safety and efficacy clinical trial) with a median duration of post-treatment 
follow-up of 4.0 years (range: 0.6 to 7.5 years) and nine (9) patients treated in the context of 
3 expanded access programs with a median follow-up of 1.5 years (range: 0.99 years to 2.72 years).  
In addition, initial results from 9 patients treated in a further study with the commercial 
(cryopreserved) formulation of Libmeldy (Study 205756) are summarised below. 
The MLD disease spectrum can present in a variety of clinical forms, primarily based on the age of 
onset of the first symptoms of the disease. Pre-symptomatic Late Infantile (LI) or Early Juvenile (EJ) 
MLD patients and early symptomatic EJ MLD patients with biallelic mutations in the ARSA gene 
leading to a reduction of the ARSA enzymatic activity were included in the clinical development of 
Libmeldy. ‘Biallelic mutations leading to a reduction of the ARSA enzymatic activity’ refers to 
mutations leading to partial or total disruption of the ARSA enzymatic activity and resulting in 
accumulation of sulfatides. These biallelic mutations exclude common neutral mutations described in 
association with ARSA pseudo-deficiency alleles. 
12 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients and disease characteristics 
The MLD forms (variants) were defined by the presence of the following criteria during the clinical 
development:  
• Late infantile (LI): age at onset of symptoms in the older sibling(s) ≤ 30  months and/or 2 null (0) 
mutant ARSA alleles and/or peripheral neuropathy at electroneurography (ENG) study.  
• Early juvenile (EJ): age at onset of symptoms (in the patient or in the older sibling) between 
30 months and before 7 years, and/or 1 null (0) and 1 residual (R) mutant ARSA allele(s) and/or 
peripheral neuropathy at ENG study. 
In the above definition, null (0) or residual (R) alleles refer to either known or novel mutations.  
The symptomatic status of the patients was defined as follows:  
• Pre-symptomatic: at time of inclusion into the clinical studies, LI or EJ patients were without 
neurological impairment (disease-related symptoms), with or without signs of the disease revealed by 
instrumental evaluations i.e. electroneurographic study (ENG) and brain magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI). 
Based on an analysis of the baseline characteristics of pre-symptomatic LI and EJ patients treated 
during the clinical development program, the definition of pre-symptomatic status was further refined 
to maximise the treatment benefit.  
Taking the results of this analysis into account, treatment with Libmeldy of a pre-symptomatic patient 
should be considered: 
- For a patient with the LI form of the disease, in the absence of a delay in achievement of independent 
standing, or a delay in achievement of independent walking, associated with abnormal signs at 
neurological evaluation. 
- For a patient with the EJ form of the disease, in the absence of neurological signs or symptoms of the 
disease resulting in cognitive, motor, or behavioural functional impairment or regression 
(substantiated by neurological examination, gross motor function evaluation and/or age appropriate 
neuropsychological tests). 
• Early symptomatic: at time of inclusion into the clinical studies, early symptomatic EJ patients met 
the following 2 criteria: intelligence quotient (IQ) ≥ 70 and the ability to walk independently for ≥ 10 
steps.  
Based on the analysis of clinically relevant benefits on the motor and cognitive functions, efficacy was 
only demonstrated in patients treated before the onset of cognitive deterioration at a time when they 
were still able to walk independently.  
Taking these results into consideration, treatment with Libmeldy of a patient with an 
early-symptomatic EJ form of the disease should be considered:  
- If this patient is able to walk independently, which means that the patient’s GMFC-MLD score is 
≤ 1, and  
- If the patient’s cognitive function has not started declining, which means that the patient’s IQ is ≥ 85. 
At time of inclusion in the clinical studies, out of the 29 early-onset MLD patients, 20 were 
pre-symptomatic and 9 were early symptomatic, 16 had a diagnosis of LI MLD and 13 had a diagnosis 
of EJ MLD. All LI study patients and some EJ patients were identified after an older sibling had 
developed symptoms and received an MLD diagnosis, prompting testing in other family members. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Summary of demographic characteristics by symptomatic status at time of gene 
therapy and by disease subtype (Integrated efficacy set) 
Pre-symptomatic patients 
Early symptomatic patients 
Late Infantile 
subgroup 
(N=15) 
Early 
Juvenile 
subgroup  
(N=5) 
Late Infantile 
subgroup 
(N=1) 
Early 
Juvenile 
subgroup  
(N=8) 
5 (33) 
10 (67) 
13.1 
7.6 
17.8 
2 (40) 
3 (60) 
48.9 
11.4 
66.8 
1 (100) 
0 
23.3 
23.3 
23.3 
5 (63) 
3 (38) 
77.9 
38.8 
139.9 
Sex, n (%) 
   Female 
   Male 
Age at GT, in months 
   Median 
   Min 
   Max 
Mobilisation and apheresis  
During the clinical development, all (ten) patients for whom the decision was made to use mPB as the 
source material – and not to conduct a BM harvest - were administered G-CSF (10-12.5 μg/kg/day) to 
mobilise CD34+ cells prior to the apheresis procedure. Starting from day 3 of G-CSF administration, 
an additional mobilising agent, plerixafor, was given once daily (0.24 mg/kg, subcutaneous) if 
clinically indicated depending on the white blood cells and CD34+ cell count in the patient’s peripheral 
blood. Apheresis was performed as soon as the CD34+ cell count reached an adequate level, according 
to standard procedures. 
If the target number of collected CD34+ cells to manufacture Libmeldy and to provide the back-up 
transplant were not reached with a single apheresis, a second procedure was performed. For all 
patients, the minimum number of CD34+ cells to manufacture Libmeldy (8 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) was 
collected with 1 cycle of mobilisation and 1 or 2 apheresis. 
Pre-treatment conditioning 
All patients received systemic conditioning with busulfan prior to treatment with Libmeldy.  
Thirteen patients (45%) were treated with a sub-myeloablative conditioning (SMAC) regimen, defined 
as a target cumulative AUC of 67,200 μg*h/L. Sixteen patients (55%) were treated with a 
myeloablative (MAC) conditioning regimen, defined as a target cumulative AUC of 85,000 μg*h/L. 
For the SMAC conditioning regimen, patients received a total of 14 doses of busulfan (according to 
patient’s weight), as a 2-hour IV infusion administered every 6 hours from Day -4 to Day -1. Busulfan 
plasma levels were monitored by serial pharmacokinetic sampling and adjusted using a target dose 
AUC of 4800 μg*h/L (range: 4200 to 5600 μg*h/L), which corresponds to an expected total 
cumulative AUC of 67,200 µg*h/L (range 58,800 to 78,400 μg*h/L). The average, cumulative AUC in 
patients who received a SMAC regimen was higher than expected but remained within the target range 
(geometric mean 71,923.53 [95% CI: 68,751.04, 75,242.41]). 
For the MAC conditioning regimen, patients received body-surface area-based dosing of busulfan 
according to the patients age (80 mg/m2/dose if ≤ 1 year; 120 mg/m2/dose if > 1 year) for a total of 
4 doses, administered as a 3 hour IV infusion every 20 to 24 hours from Day -4 to Day -1. Busulfan 
plasma levels were monitored by serial pharmacokinetic sampling and adjusted using a target total 
cumulative AUC of 85,000 µg*h/L (range: 76,500 to 93,500 µg*h/L). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup analyses by conditioning regimen i.e. comparison of the subgroups of patients who received 
the MAC vs. the SMAC regimen, didn’t show noticeable differences in the level of transduced cell 
engraftment nor in ARSA enzyme activity (in total PBMCs and BM-derived mononuclear cells). 
Moreover, the safety profiles of both regimens were shown to be comparable.  
Therefore, the decision to use the MAC or SMAC regimen for pre-treatment conditioning is at the 
discretion of the treating physician, taking into consideration the patient’s clinical characteristics such 
as, but not limited to, age, hepatic function, prematurity and thrombophilia. 
During clinical development, prophylaxis for veno-occlusive disease (VOD) and related endothelial 
injury complications was required per institutional practice with ursodeoxycholic acid or defibrotide. 
Libmeldy administration 
All patients (N=29) were administered the medicinal product with a mean (min, max) cell dose of 
10.81 x 106 (4.2, 25.9) CD34+ cells/kg as an intravenous infusion. 
Integrated efficacy results (N=29)  
The co-primary efficacy endpoints were: 
• Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM):  An improvement of > 10% of the total GMFM score in 
treated patients, when compared to the GMFM scores in the age-matched, untreated historical control 
MLD population (i.e., TIGET natural history [NHx] Study), evaluated at Year 2 after treatment (see 
Table 4), and 
• ARSA activity:  A significant (≥ 2 SD) increase in residual ARSA activity as compared to pre-
treatment values, measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) at Year 2 after treatment 
(see Pharmacodynamic Effects, Figure 1 and Table 5).  
Early-onset MLD patients treated before the onset of overt symptoms showed normal motor 
development, stabilisation, or delay in the rate of progression of motor dysfunction as measured by 
GMFM total score (%) (see Table 4).  
Using an ANCOVA model adjusted for age at GMFM assessment and treatment, the mean difference 
between treated pre-symptomatic LI patients and age matched untreated LI patients from the NHx 
study was 71.0% at Year 2 and 79.8% at Year 3. Similarly, the mean difference between treated 
pre-symptomatic EJ patients and aged matched untreated EJ patients was 52.4% at Year 2 and 74.9% 
at Year 3. These treatment differences were statistically significant (p≤0.008) in favour of Libmeldy. 
Although not statistically significant, a clear difference in GMFM total score was also noted between 
treated early symptomatic EJ patients and aged matched untreated EJ patients (28.7% at Year 2; 
p=0.350 and 43.9% at Year 3; p=0.054). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
GMFM total score (%) at Year 2 and Year 3 in pre-symptomatic and 
early-symptomatic patients (late infantile and early juvenile subgroups) with 
comparison to age-matched natural history data (integrated efficacy set).  
Adjusted mean GMFM total 
score 
Treated 
patients 
Untreated 
natural 
history 
patients 
Mean treatment difference in 
GMFM total score between 
treated patients and age-
matched untreated natural 
history patients 
Pre-symptomatic 
patients 
Early-Symptomatic 
patients 
Year 2* 
Year 3 
Year 2* 
Year 3 
Year 2* 
Year 3 
79.5% 
(n=10) 
82.6% 
(n=9) 
96.7% 
(n=4) 
93.2% 
(n=4) 
60.7% 
(n=6) 
59.8% 
(n=6) 
Late infantile 
8.4% 
(n=8) 
2.8% 
(n=9) 
Early juvenile 
44.3% 
(n=8) 
18.2% 
(n=9) 
Early juvenile 
31.9% 
(n=10) 
15.9% 
(n=10) 
71.0% (95% CI: 60.4 – 81.7) ; 
p<0.001 
79.8% (95% CI: 66.2 – 93.3) ; 
p<0.001 
52.4% (95% CI: 25.1 – 79.6) ; 
p=0.008 
74.9% (95% CI: 50.8 – 99.1) ; 
p<0.001 
28.7% (95% CI: -14.1 – 71.5) ; 
p=0.350 
43.9% (95% CI: 9.2 – 78.5) ; 
p=0.054 
* The Gross Motor Function Measure at two years after treatment was a co-primary endpoint of the registrational clinical 
study. Note: Analysis of covariance adjusting for treatment and age. P-values are from a two-sided 5% hypothesis test with 
null hypothesis of 10% difference. CI: confidence interval; EJ: early juvenile; GMFM: gross motor function measurement; 
LI: late infantile; MLD: metachromatic leukodystrophy. 
Deterioration of gross motor function was assessed from disease onset in EJ patients who were 
early-symptomatic at the time of gene therapy. By four years post disease onset, the estimated 
proportion of patients who survived and maintained locomotion and ability to sit without support 
(GMFC-MLD level 5 or higher) was 62.5% in the treated group compared to 26.3% in the untreated 
group, representing a delay in disease progression following treatment with Libmeldy.  
A statistically significant increase in ARSA activity in PBMCs was also observed at Year 2 
post-treatment compared to pre-treatment baseline in both pre-symptomatic patients (20.0-fold 
increase; p<0.001) and early symptomatic patients (4.2-fold increase; p=0.004) (see Table 5).  
Table 5 
ARSA activity measured in PBMCs (geometric mean) at Baseline and Year 2 
after treatment in pre-symptomatic and early-symptomatic patients (integrated 
efficacy set).  
Pre-symptomatic 
Early-symptomatic  
Geometric mean (%CVb)  
ARSA Activity in PBMCs 
Year 2 
339.736 (270.85) 
(n=14) 
134.056 (55.94) 
(n=6) 
Baseline 
26.923 (16.72) 
(n=19) 
26.025 (2.72) 
(n=9) 
Fold Increase from Baseline to 
Year 2 * 
20.0 
(95% CI: 9.0, 44.0) p<0.001 
4.2 
(95% CI: 1.6, 11.2) p=0.004 
* Ratio in adjusted means from a mixed model repeated measures of data on the log scale, adjusting for visit, baseline, 
baseline by visit interaction, disease subtype and disease subtype by visit interaction 
A secondary efficacy endpoint of the integrated efficacy analysis was measurement of IQ above 55 
post-treatment with Libmeldy, the threshold for moderate mental retardation (DSM-IV), using 
neuropsychological tests. Intelligence Quotient/Development Quotient (IQ/DQ) measures, i.e. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cognitive and language abilities, complement results from the GMFM and provide further evidence 
that the high levels of engraftment and enzymatic reconstitution translate into relevant treatment 
effects on key symptomatic domains in MLD patients. 
In the LI subgroup (all pre-symptomatic at time of treatment except one), 12 out of 15 assessed 
patients had a fairly constant IQ/DQ, within the normal range (IQ/DQ score of 100 +/- SD of 15) 
throughout follow-up. All but 2 of these patients (one pre-symptomatic, one early-symptomatic) 
remained above the threshold of severe mental disability (IQ/DQ > 55) at chronological ages at which 
all 14 untreated NHx patients with neuropsychological assessments showed evidence of severe 
cognitive impairment (i.e. IQ/DQ below 55 and close to 0). 
Of the 10 surviving EJ patients, all 4 pre-symptomatic patients and 4 out of 6 early-symptomatic 
patients showed normal IQ/DQ throughout follow-up.  In contrast, 11 out of 12 NHx patients with 
neuropsychological assessments showed evidence of severe cognitive impairment during follow-up. 
At the time of the integrated data analysis, i.e. at a median follow-up time of 3.035 years 
post-treatment (range 0.99 to 7.51), none of the 16 patients in the treated LI subgroup, all 
pre-symptomatic at time of treatment except one, had died (100% overall survival).  Four 
pre-symptomatic LI patients were alive 6 or more years after treatment and 2 pre-symptomatic LI 
patients were alive 7 or more years after treatment. In comparison, 12 out of 19 (63.2%) untreated LI 
patients in the NHx study had died at the time of the analysis.  
Comparable overall survival was observed in the treated and untreated EJ groups with a median 
follow-up time of 3.49 years post-treatment (range 0.64 to 6.55). One out of 5 (20%) EJ patients 
treated at pre-symptomatic stage died, due to cerebral ischemic infarction, not deemed related to 
Libmeldy. There were 2 deaths among the 8 (25.0%) EJ patients treated at early-symptomatic stage, 
both due to disease progression, and also not considered to be related to Libmeldy treatment. 
Similarly, 3 of the 12 (25%) untreated EJ patients in the NHx study had died at the time of the 
analysis. 
A sensitivity analysis conducted to identify clinical factors, which could have influenced the level of 
treatment benefit with Libmeldy and optimize the recommended use of the treatment, identified 4 
treatment failures: 
-  One LI patient experienced onset of disease-related symptoms between screening and 
administration of Libmeldy and was considered symptomatic at the time of treatment. The 
progression of this patient post-treatment was comparable to untreated NHx patients in both 
cognitive function and motor development. 
-  Three early symptomatic EJ patients treated with Libmeldy showed deterioration in both motor 
and cognitive functions comparable to that observed in untreated NHx patients and progression of 
the disease led to death in two of them. Two out of the three patients showed IQ < 85 (82 and 58) 
at the time of treatment. Two out of the three patients showed deterioration between screening and 
baseline (onset of conditioning regimen) assessments. 
Study 205756 (cryopreserved commercial formulation) 
Study 205756 is an open-label, single-arm study to evaluate the cryopreserved (commercial) 
formulation of Libmeldy in the treatment of pre-symptomatic LI and pre-symptomatic and 
early-symptomatic EJ MLD patients.  The cell dose range used in the first 9 patients in Study 205756 
(10.45-30.0 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) is close to the range used in patients treated with the fresh 
(investigational) formulation of the medicinal product (4.2-25.9 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg). 
At the time of data cut, 6 patients (3LIs, 3EJs), all pre-symptomatic at the time of treatment, have been 
treated, with a median follow-up post-treatment of 0.87 year (range: 0.0 to 1.47 years). Preliminary 
efficacy data show levels of engraftment, Vector Copy Number, ARSA activity in PBMCs and CSF at 
different timepoints post-gene therapy within the range observed in the integrated data analysis of the 
patients treated with the fresh formulation of Libmeldy.  
Preliminary safety data indicate that Libmeldy was well tolerated. The safety profile observed in this 
study with the cryopreserved formulation is consistent with the profile established in patients treated 
with the fresh formulation in terms of nature, time of onset and frequency of reported adverse events.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Libmeldy has been studied in infants and children with an age range between 7.6 months and 
11.6 years. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Libmeldy in the late juvenile subset of the paediatric population with metachromatic leukodystrophy 
(i.e. MLD patients aged between 7 and less than 17 years at time of disease onset) (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2   Pharmacokinetic properties 
Libmeldy is a gene therapy medicinal product consisting of autologous cells that have been genetically 
modified ex vivo. The nature of Libmeldy is such that conventional studies on pharmacokinetics, 
absorption, metabolism, and elimination are not applicable. The biodistribution of Libmeldy was 
nonetheless studied and distribution to haematopoietic tissues and disease target organs (including the 
brain) was demonstrated. 
5.3   Preclinical safety data 
Due to the nature of Libmeldy, a standard toxicological assessment was not applicable and 
conventional mutagenicity, carcinogenicity and reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have 
not been conducted.   
The pharmacology, toxicology and genotoxicity of Libmeldy were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. 
Integration site analysis (ISA) of mouse Lin- bone marrow cells and human CD34+ cells transduced 
with ARSA LVV was conducted pre- and post-transplantation into mice and showed no enrichment 
for insertion in or near cancer-related genes, or clonal dominance. A prototype lentiviral vector related 
to ARSA LVV did not induce in vitro transformation and sustained growth of transduced wild type 
mouse Lin- bone marrow cells due to insertional transformation. Lin- bone marrow cells from 
Cdkn2a-/- mice, a strain prone to cancer triggered by gamma-retroviral insertional mutagenesis, 
transduced with the same prototype lentiviral vector did not show genotoxic potential when 
transplanted into wild type mice.  
Toxicity and oncogenesis (tumorigenicity) studies were performed in the mouse model of MLD. No 
evidence of toxicity due to ARSA overexpression and no abnormal or malignant growth of 
transplanted cells or haematopoietic tumours related to the integration of ARSA LVV were observed. 
ARSA overexpression in human HSPCs and in ARSA Tg mice did not impair the activation of other 
sulfatases dependent on the sulfatase activator SUMF-1, did not affect the proliferation and 
differentiation capacities of transduced cells and did not induce toxicity or functional impairment in 
ARSA Tg mice.  
Additional studies with human CD34+ cells transduced with ARSA LVV administered to 
immunodeficient, myeloablated mice demonstrated no toxicity, no vector mobilisation and bystander 
transduction of male gonads.  
Molecular monitoring did not detect replication competent lentivirus (RCL).  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1   List of excipients 
Dimethylsulfoxide 
Sodium chloride 
Human albumin 
6.2  
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3   Shelf life 
6 months.   
Once thawed: maximum 2 hours at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C). 
6.4   Special precautions for storage 
Keep the infusion bag(s) in the metal cassette(s).  
Libmeldy must be stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (< -130 °C) and must remain frozen 
until the patient is ready for treatment to ensure viable cells are available for patient  administration. 
Thawed medicinal product should not be refrozen. 
For storage conditions after thawing of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5   Nature and contents of container  
50 mL ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) infusion bag(s) with two available spike ports, packed in an EVA 
overwrap bag placed inside a metal cassette.    
Libmeldy is shipped from the manufacturing facility to the treatment centre storage facility in a 
cryoshipper, which may contain multiple metal cassettes intended for a single patient. Each metal 
cassette contains one infusion bag of Libmeldy.  
6.6   Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product  
•  This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Libmeldy 
must take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective clothing and eye protection) to 
avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
•  Libmeldy must remain at <-130 °C at all times, until the content of the bag is thawed for infusion.  
Definition of the dose to be administered  
•  Considering the posology information provided in section 4.2, the dose to be infused and number 
of infusion bags to be used should be defined based on the total number of CD34+ cells supplied 
indicated on the Lot Information Sheet (i.e. the ‘supplied dose’, calculated based on patient’s 
weight at time of cell harvest). The dose of Libmeldy to be administered should also take into 
account the patient’s weight at the time of treatment, and the fact that any bag used should be 
administered in its entirety.  
•  Careful consideration must be given to the volume of infusion in relation to age and weight of the 
patient. When the dose of Libmeldy to be infused represents more than one bag, it should be 
ensured prior to infusion that the volume of medicinal product to be infused is compatible with the 
recommended limit of DMSO, i.e. the total volume of DMSO administered should remain < 1% of 
the patient’s estimated plasma volume. Therefore, the maximum volume of Libmeldy to be 
administered should remain < 20% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume.  
•  The following graph is provided as a reference in order to determine the maximum volume of 
Libmeldy which can be infused to a patient based on their estimated plasma volume.  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2  
Guidance on DMSO safety limit: the maximum volume of Libmeldy to be 
administered should remain < 20% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume. 
Preparation prior to administration 
•  A patient may have multiple infusion bags. Each infusion bag is provided inside an overwrap bag, 
which is contained in a metal cassette.  
•  The overwrapped infusion bag(s) must be kept inside the metal cassette(s) in the vapour phase of 
liquid nitrogen at < -130 °C until ready to thaw and infuse. 
•  Account for all infusion bags and confirm each infusion bag is within the expiry date using the 
accompanying Lot Information Sheet. 
•  Sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection should be available to prime the 
tubing prior to infusion, and to flush the infusion bag and tubing after infusion. 
Checking prior to thawing  
•  Do not remove the metal cassette from cryogenic storage or thaw Libmeldy until the patient is 
ready to be infused. The timing of thaw of the infusion bag(s) containing Libmeldy and of the 
infusion should be coordinated. Confirm the infusion time in advance and adjust the start time for 
thaw so that the treatment is available for infusion when the patient is ready.  
•  Open the metal cassette and inspect the overwrap bag and infusion bag for any breaches of 
integrity before thawing. If an infusion bag is compromised, follow the local guidelines for 
handling of waste of human-derived material and contact Orchard Therapeutics immediately.  
•  Prior to thawing Libmeldy, it must be verified that the patient identity matches the unique patient 
information reported on the packaging labels and on the accompanying Lot Information Sheet. 
Libmeldy is intended solely for autologous use. Do not thaw or infuse Libmeldy if the information 
on the patient-specific label on the infusion bag does not match the intended patient.  
Thawing  
•  After careful removal from the metal cassette, thaw the infusion bag in its sealed overwrap bag at 
37 °C in a controlled thawing device until there is no visible ice in the infusion bag.  
•  Once thawing is complete, the bag should be removed immediately from the thawing device. 
•  The overwrap bag should be carefully opened to remove the infusion bag which should be kept at 
room temperature (20 °C-25 °C) until infusion.    
•  Gently massage the infusion bag to resuspend the cells. The content of the infusion bag should be 
inspected for any remaining visible cellular aggregates. Small clumps of cellular material should 
disperse with gentle manual mixing. Do not shake the bag.  
•  The infusion bag should not be washed, spun down, sampled and/or resuspended in new media 
prior to infusion. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Libmeldy should not be irradiated as irradiation could lead to inactivation of the product. 
• 
If more than one infusion bag is provided for the patient treatment dose, the next bag should only 
be thawed after the content of the preceding bag has been fully infused. 
Administration  
•  Libmeldy should be administered as an intravenous infusion via a central venous catheter, per the 
administration site’s standard procedures for cell therapy products. 
•  The recommended administration set consists of a blood transfusion set equipped with a 200 µm 
filter. 
•  Each bag should be infused by gravity within 2 hours of thaw, including any interruption during 
the infusion, to maintain maximum product viability. 
•  The maximum infusion rate is 5 mL/kg/h, and the content of each bag should be infused within 
approximately 30 minutes. 
•  When more than one bag of Libmeldy is needed, only one bag of product should be infused per 
hour. 
•  Patients not previously exposed to DMSO should be observed closely. Vital signs (blood pressure, 
heart rate, and oxygen saturation) and the occurrence of any symptom should be monitored for up 
to 3 hours following the infusion. 
•  At the end of the infusion, flush all Libmeldy remaining in the infusion bag and any associated 
tubing with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure that as many cells as 
possible are infused into the patient. Careful consideration must be given to the volume of infusion 
in relation to the age and weight of the patient. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
• 
In case of accidental local guidelines on handling of human-derived material must be followed. 
Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Libmeldy must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product  
•  Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Libmeldy (solid and 
liquid waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with 
local guidelines on handling human-derived material. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
Basisweg 10,  
1043 AP Amsterdam,  
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER  
EU/1/20/1493/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 December 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Zambon Scientific Park 
Via Meucci 3 
20091 Bresso (MI) 
Italy 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Via Olgettina 58 
20132 
Milan 
Italy  
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Zambon Scientific Park 
Via Meucci 3 
20091 Bresso (MI) 
Italy 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Via Olgettina 58 
20132 
Milan 
Italy  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Libmeldy in each Member State, the MAH will agree about the content and format 
of the educational and controlled distribution programme with the National Competent Authority.  
The educational and controlled distribution programme is aimed at providing information on the safe 
use of Libmeldy.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Libmeldy is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense and/or use Libmeldy have 
access to/are provided with the following educational package:  
- Physician educational material  
- Patient information pack.  
The physician educational material should contain:  
- The Summary of Product Characteristics 
- The Guide for healthcare professionals  
- The Guide for handling and method of administration. 
•The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements:  
•  Warning that there is a theoretical possibility that the treatment with Libmeldy may be 
associated with the risk of insertional mutagenesis, potentially leading to development of 
malignancy. All patients should receive monitoring for signs and symptoms of oncogenic 
transformation, leukaemia or lymphoma; and must be advised on the symptoms and signs of 
leukaemia or lymphoma and to seek immediate medical attention if they develop any of the 
symptoms. 
•  Warning about delayed platelet engraftment and guidance on its management 
•  Warning about emergence of anti-ARSA antibodies and guidance on its management 
•  Warning about the potential risk of engraftment failure and the need to monitor patients 
• 
•  Recommendation of the important considerations to discuss with patients and/or carers about 
Information on LongTERM-MLD study and what it will involve 
Libmeldy: 
-  Potential risks of a treatment with Libmeldy 
-  Signs of any malignancy such as leukaemia/lymphoma and what action to take 
-  Content of the patient and parent/carer guide 
-  The need to carry the patient alert card and to show it to every healthcare professional 
-  The importance of regular monitoring and long-term follow-up. 
•  Provision of contact details for reporting all suspected adverse reactions and to include the 
individual medicinal product lot number which can be found within the patient alert card. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•The Guide to handling and method of administration for healthcare professionals shall contain 
the following key elements:  
•  Guidance that Libmeldy must be administered in a Qualified Treatment Centre with 
experience in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
Instructions on the precautions to be taken before handling or administering Libmeldy 
Instructions for receiving and storing Libmeldy 
Instructions to check Libmeldy prior to administration 
Instructions for the thawing of Libmeldy 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Provision of contact details for reporting all suspected adverse reactions and to include the 
individual medicinal product lot number which can be found within the patient alert card. 
The patient information pack should contain:  
- The Package leaflet  
- The Patient and parent/carer guide 
- The Patient alert card.  
•The patient and parent/carer guide shall contain the following key messages:  
•  Warning to monitor the patient for symptoms of leukaemia or lymphoma and to contact the 
specialist doctor immediately in case of any symptoms as there is a small risk that a patient 
may develop leukaemia or lymphoma. The specialist doctor will check the patient’s blood for 
any signs of leukaemia or lymphoma during the routine yearly check-ups, which will continue 
after treatment. 
•  Guidance about the need for the patient or their parent/carer to carry the patient alert card to 
inform any treating healthcare professional that the child was treated with Libmeldy. 
•  Guidance on the importance of regular monitoring and to report any symptoms or concerns to 
the specialist doctor treating the child. 
Information about the LongTERM-MLD study and the purpose of the study. 
• 
•  Provision of contact details for reporting any side effects or symptoms of the patient and what 
a medicine subject to additional monitoring (▼) means. 
•  The patient alert card shall contain the following key messages:  
•  Statement that the patient was treated with Libmeldy, with the medicinal product lot number 
and treatment date to ensure traceability as per the Guideline on safety and efficacy follow-up 
and risk management of advanced therapy medicinal products (EMEA/149995/2008). 
•  Contact details of the treating physician. 
• 
Information on the possibility of false positivity of certain commercial HIV tests because of 
Libmeldy. 
•  Statement that the patient was treated with gene therapy and should not donate blood, organs, 
tissues, or cells. 
•  Details on reporting of adverse reactions and that Libmeldy is subject to additional 
monitoring▼. 
•  Contact details where a healthcare professional can receive further information. 
The MAH shall ensure that, in each Member State where Libmeldy is marketed, a system aimed to 
control its distribution beyond the level of control ensured by routine risk minimisation measures is 
implemented. The following requirements need to be fulfilled before the product is prescribed, 
manufactured, dispensed and used:  
Libmeldy will only be available through treatment centres qualified by the MAH to ensure traceability 
of the patient’s cells and manufactured drug product between the treating hospital and manufacturing 
site. The selection of the treatment centres will be conducted in collaboration with national health 
authorities as appropriate. The healthcare professionals will receive training on the physician 
educational materials as part of the centre qualification process.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures:  
Description  
In order to further characterise the long-term efficacy and safety of Libmeldy 
in children with late infantile or early juvenile forms of MLD, the MAH shall 
conduct and submit the results of a prospective study based on data from a 
registry, according to an agreed protocol. 
Due date 
Interim reports to 
be submitted in 
accordance with the 
RMP 
Final study report: 
March 2046 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
METAL CASSETTE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Libmeldy 2-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
atidarsagene autotemcel  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
An autologous CD34+ cells enriched population that contains haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells 
(HSPC) transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector expressing the human arylsulfatase A (ARSA) 
gene. This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains dimethylsulfoxide, human albumin and sodium chloride.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
10-20 mL 
See Lot Information Sheet for number of infusion bags and CD34+ cells per bag for this patient. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
Shelf life after thawing: 2 hours at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C) 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen (< -130 °C). Keep infusion bag in the metal cassette until ready for thaw 
and administration. Do not unseal the overwrap bag until after thaw. Once thawed do not re-freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
Basisweg 10,  
1043 AP Amsterdam,  
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1493/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
First Name:  
Last Name:  
Patient DOB:  
DIN: 
COI ID: 
Lot: 
Bag ID:  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING 
OVERWRAPPING BAG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Libmeldy 2-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion  
atidarsagene autotemcel 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
An autologous CD34+ cells enriched population that contains haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells 
(HSPC) transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector expressing the human arylsulfatase A (ARSA) 
gene. This medicine contains cells of human origin.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains dimethylsulfoxide, human albumin and sodium chloride.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
10-20 mL 
See Lot Information Sheet for number of infusion bags and CD34+ cells per bag for this patient. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
Shelf life after thawing: 2 hours at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C) 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen (< -130 °C). Keep infusion bag in the metal cassette until ready for thaw 
and administration. Do not unseal the overwrap bag until after thaw. Once thawed do not re-freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
Basisweg 10,  
1043 AP Amsterdam,  
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1493/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
First Name:  
Last Name: 
Patient DOB:  
DIN: 
COI ID: 
Lot: 
Bag ID: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not applicable. 
34 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
INFUSION BAG  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Libmeldy 2-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion  
atidarsagene autotemcel 
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
First Name:  
Last Name:  
Patient DOB:  
DIN: 
COI ID: 
Lot: 
Bag ID:  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
10-20 mL of cell dispersion per bag. 
See Lot Information Sheet for number of infusion bags and CD34+ cells per bag for this patient.  
6. 
OTHER  
For autologous use only. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE LOT INFORMATION SHEET INCLUDED WITH 
EACH SHIPMENT FOR ONE PATIENT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Libmeldy 2-10 x 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
An autologous CD34+ cells enriched population that contains haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells 
(HSPC) transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector expressing the human arylsulfatase A (ARSA) 
gene. 
3. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT, AND DOSE OF THE 
MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
INFORMATION ON SUPPLIED LOT(S)  
The following lot(s) is (are) included in the shipment:  
Lot number 
Bag ID 
Volume of 
dispersion for 
infusion (mL) 
Strength  
(x 106 
cells/mL) 
Total CD34+ 
cells 
(x 106) 
Expiry date 
(DD-MMM-
YYYY) 
Total number of bags: 
Total number of CD34+ cells (x 106): 
The supplied dose (calculated based on patient’s weight at time of cell harvest) is:  
_____ × 106 CD34+ cells/kg. 
The minimum recommended dose of Libmeldy to be administered is 3 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg.  
In clinical studies doses up to 30 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg have been administered.  
The dose to be infused should be defined by the treating physician based on the total number of 
CD34+ cells supplied, the patient’s weight at time of treatment, and the fact that any bag used should 
be administered in its entirety.  
When more than one bag of Libmeldy is needed, it should be ensured prior to infusion that the volume 
of medicinal product to be infused is compatible with the recommended limit of DMSO, i.e. the total 
volume of DMSO administered should remain <1% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume.  
The maximum volume of Libmeldy to be administered should therefore remain < 20% of the patient’s 
estimated plasma volume. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
5. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNINGS, IF NECESSARY 
SAVE THIS DOCUMENT AND HAVE IT AVAILABLE WHEN PREPARING FOR 
ADMINISTRATION OF LIBMELDY . 
For autologous use only.  
6. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR STORAGE AND USE  
Store and transport frozen (< -130 °C). Keep infusion bag in the metal cassette until ready for thaw 
and administration. Do not unseal the overwrap bag until after thaw. Once thawed do not re-freeze. 
Shelf life: 6 months at < -130 °C. Shelf life after thawing: 2 hours at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C). 
7. 
EXPIRY DATE AND OTHER BATCH SPECIFIC INFORMATION 
Information is presented in the table in section 3 above. 
8. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
9.   BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
SEC: 
First Name: 
Last Name:  
Patient DOB:  
Weight at First Collection (kg):  
DIN:  
COI ID: 
Information related to batch number and Bag ID is presented in the table in section 3 above. 
10.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
Basisweg 10,  
1043 AP Amsterdam,  
The Netherlands 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1493/001 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient or carer 
Libmeldy 2-10 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
atidarsagene autotemcel 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects your child may get. See the end of 
section 4 for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child is given this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
- If you have any further questions, ask your child’s doctor or nurse. 
- Your child’s doctor or nurse will give you a Patient Alert Card. Read it carefully and follow the 
instructions on it. 
- Always show the Patient Alert Card to the doctor or nurse when your child sees them or if your child 
goes to hospital. 
- If your child gets any side effects, talk to your child’s doctor or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Libmeldy is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before your child is given Libmeldy  
3.  How Libmeldy is given  
4.  Possible side effects  
Side effects of the conditioning medicine 
Side effects of Libmeldy 
5.  How to store Libmeldy  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Libmeldy is and what it is used for 
What Libmeldy is 
Libmeldy is a type of medicine called gene therapy. It is made specially for your child from your 
child’s own blood cells.  
What Libmeldy is used for 
Libmeldy is used to treat a serious condition called metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD):  
- 
in children with the ‘late infantile’ or ‘early juvenile’ forms of the disease who have not yet 
developed any signs or symptoms, 
in children with the ‘early juvenile’ form of the disease who have started developing symptoms 
but whose symptoms are not yet worsening rapidly.  
- 
People with MLD have a fault in the gene to make an enzyme called arylsulfatase A (ARSA). This 
leads to a build-up of substances called sulfatides in the brain and nervous system, causing damage to 
the nervous system and progressive loss of physical skills and, later, mental ability, ultimately leading 
to death. 
How does Libmeldy work? 
Cells called stem cells are collected from your child’s blood. They are then modified in a laboratory to 
insert a working gene for making ARSA. When your child is given Libmeldy, which is made up of 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these modified cells, the cells will start making ARSA to break down the sulfatides in the nerve cells 
and other cells of your child’s body. This is expected to slow down the progression of the disease and 
improve your child’s quality of life.  
Libmeldy is given by a drip (infusion) into a vein (intravenously). For more information on what 
happens before and during treatment, see section 3, How Libmeldy is given. 
If you have any questions about how Libmeldy works or why this medicine has been prescribed to 
your child, ask your child’s doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before your child is given Libmeldy  
Your child must not be given Libmeldy: 
• 
• 
• 
if your child is allergic to any of the ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think 
your child may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
if your child has previously had gene therapy made from his/her blood stem cells. 
if your child is allergic to - or if your doctor thinks your child would get unacceptable side effects 
from - any of the ingredients in the medicines your child will be given before treatment with 
Libmeldy (see section 3). 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before your child is given Libmeldy. 
• 
Information about cell-based medicinal products, like Libmeldy, must be kept for 30 years at the 
hospital. The information kept about your child will be their name and the batch number of 
Libmeldy they received. 
•  Libmeldy is made from your child’s own stem cells and should only be given to your child. 
Before the treatment with Libmeldy  
•  Evaluation of your child by their doctor to confirm that they have MLD and assess for symptoms 
and effects of their disease will take place before decision to use Libmeldy is made. Your child 
may not be showing any physical signs of the disease at the time of initial evaluation.  
If your child’s MLD has progressed and has worsened before the initiation of the treatment, their 
doctor may determine that their disease has reached a ‘rapidly progressive phase’.  If this happens, 
your child may not gain benefit from the treatment and your child’s doctor may decide not to give 
Libmeldy. 
•  Your child may be given medicines known as mobilisation medicine and conditioning medicine 
(see sections 3 and 4 for more information on these medicines, including possible side effects). 
•  Central venous catheters are thin, flexible tubes, that are inserted by a doctor into a large vein to 
access the bloodstream of your child.  The risks of these lines are infections and the formation of 
blood clots.  The doctor and nurses will monitor your child for any central venous catheter 
complications. 
•  Libmeldy is tested for the presence of infectious microbes before it is administered to your child.  
There is a small risk of infection. Your child’s doctors and nurses will monitor them throughout 
the infusion for signs of infection and provide treatment if needed. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The doctor will check your child’s thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is in the neck and it makes 
hormones that are important to help the body function normally. It will also be monitored after 
treatment if needed. 
After the treatment with Libmeldy  
•  After the treatment, your child may be asked to enrol in a follow up study for up to 15 years to 
better understand the long-term effects of Libmeldy.  
• 
If your child requires a blood transfusion within the first 3 months after they have received 
Libmeldy, blood products should be irradiated.  This means the white blood cells, called 
lymphocytes, have been reduced to minimise the risk of a reaction to the transfusion.  The doctor 
will monitor your child for any blood transfusion reaction. 
•  Your child’s blood cells will be low for a period of time after the treatment with Libmeldy.  This 
affects infection fighting blood cells called neutrophils that can be measured with a simple blood 
test.  If your child’s neutrophils are still low after 60 days, this may be called ‘engraftment 
failure’.  In such case, your child’s doctor may decide to return the previously collected rescue 
cells to your child (see section 3).  The rescue cells do not have the working ARSA gene added to 
them and will not produce the ARSA enzyme. 
•  After receiving the conditioning medicine, your child may have a low number of platelets in their 
blood. This means that your child’s blood may not be able to clot normally and your child may be 
prone to bleeding for some time after the treatment. The doctor will monitor your child’s platelet 
count with simple blood tests and provide your child with treatment if required.  This may include 
a transfusion of platelets to help increase their platelet count. 
•  Metabolic acidosis may occur. It is a condition where the level of acid in the blood rises. There 
can be many different reasons for this, and the condition is more common in patients with MLD. 
Symptoms of metabolic acidosis include feeling breathless, rapid breathing, nausea (feeling sick) 
and vomiting. The doctor will monitor your child for signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis. 
• 
Inserting a new gene into the stem cells could theoretically cause blood cancers (leukaemia and 
lymphoma). After the treatment, your doctor will monitor your child for any signs of leukaemia or 
lymphoma. 
•  During the clinical studies, some patients developed antibodies to the ARSA enzyme, called anti-
ARSA antibodies (see side effects of Libmeldy in section 4). This resolved on its own or after 
treatment with adapted medicines. Your child’s doctor will monitor their blood for anti-ARSA 
antibodies and give treatment if needed. 
•  After your child has received Libmeldy, they will be monitored with regular blood tests.  This will 
include measurement of antibodies, known as immunoglobulins, in their blood.  If their level is 
low, your child may require immunoglobulin replacement therapy.  Your child’s doctor will 
discuss this with you if needed.   
•  Libmeldy is prepared using parts of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which have been 
altered so that they cannot cause infection. The altered virus is used to insert the ARSA gene into 
your child’s stem cells. Although this medicine will not give HIV infection to your child, having 
Libmeldy in their blood may cause a false positive HIV test result with some commercial tests 
(so-called “PCR-based tests”) that recognise a piece of HIV used to make Libmeldy. If your child 
tests positive for HIV after Libmeldy treatment, please contact your child’s doctor or nurse. 
•  After a treatment with Libmeldy, your child will not be able to donate blood, organs, tissues or 
cells. This is because Libmeldy is a gene therapy product. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before your child is given Libmeldy the doctor will: 
•  Check your child’s lungs, heart, kidney, liver, as well as blood pressure. 
•  Look for signs of infection; any infection will be treated before your child is given Libmeldy. 
•  Check for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human T-cell lymphotropic virus (HTLV), HIV or mycoplasma 
infection. 
•  Check if your child had a vaccination in the previous 6 weeks or if one is planned in the next few 
months. 
When Libmeldy treatment cannot be completed 
Before receiving Libmeldy your child will be given a conditioning medicine to remove cells from their 
bone marrow.  
If Libmeldy cannot be given after your child has had the conditioning medicine, or if the modified 
stem cells do not take hold (engraft) in your child’s body, the doctor may decide to return the 
previously collected rescue cells to your child by infusion (see also section 3, How Libmeldy is given).  
The rescue cells do not have the working ARSA gene added to them and will not produce the ARSA 
enzyme. For more details, please contact your child’s doctor. 
Other medicines and Libmeldy  
Tell your doctor if your child is taking, has recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
•  Your child should not take any medicines for HIV infection from at least one month before your 
child is given the mobilisation medicines, until at least 7 days after Libmeldy infusion (see also 
section 3, How Libmeldy is made and given). 
•  Your child must not be given vaccines called live vaccines for 6 weeks before they are given the 
conditioning medicine to prepare for Libmeldy treatment, nor after treatment while your child’s 
immune system (the body’s defence system) is recovering. 
Libmeldy contains sodium and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) 
This medicine contains 35-560 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose.  This 
is equivalent to 2 to 28% of recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
If your child has not previously come into contact with DMSO (a substance used to preserve frozen 
cells), the doctor or nurse should watch your child closely for any reactions during the infusion and 
every hour, for 3 hours, after the infusion. 
3. 
How Libmeldy is given  
Since Libmeldy is made from your child’s own stem cells, your child’s blood will be drawn from a 
vein and collected to prepare the medicine about 2 months before treatment.  
•  Your child will first be given a mobilisation medicine to move the blood stem cells from your 
child’s bone marrow into their blood stream.  
•  The blood stem cells can then be collected by a machine that separates blood components 
(apheresis machine). It may take more than 1 day to collect enough blood stem cells to make 
Libmeldy. 
The stem cells collected from the blood will be divided into: 
•  The treatment sample, which will be sent away to make Libmeldy, by inserting a working copy 
of the ARSA gene into the stem cells in the sample. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The backup sample, which will be frozen and stored, to be given to your child as replacement 
stem cells if Libmeldy cannot be given or does not work (see ‘When Libmeldy treatment cannot 
be completed’ in section 2). Of note, the back-up cells may alternatively be collected from your 
child’s bone marrow. In such a case, your child will be given medicines to relax and prevent pain 
or make them unconscious before the procedure. The doctor will collect your child’s bone marrow 
using a special syringe.  
How your child is given Libmeldy  
•  Libmeldy will be given to your child in a qualified treatment centre and by doctors trained in 
using this type of medicine. 
•  The doctors will check that the Libmeldy infusion bags are all identified as being made from your 
child’s own sample. 
•  Libmeldy is a one-time treatment. It will not be given to your child again. 
When 
About 2 months before 
Libmeldy infusion  
About 2 months before 
Libmeldy infusion 
5 days before Libmeldy 
infusion 
15 to 30 minutes before 
Libmeldy infusion 
Start of Libmeldy treatment 
After Libmeldy treatment  
What happens 
Why 
Mobilisation medicine is given   To move the blood stem cells 
Blood is collected  
A conditioning medicine is 
given for 3–4 days in a hospital 
A medicine called an 
antihistamine may be given 
Libmeldy is given by a drip 
(infusion) into a vein. This will 
be in a hospital and will take 
about 30 minutes for each 
infusion bag. The number of 
bags will vary by patient. 
Your child will remain in the 
hospital for about 4–12 weeks  
from your child’s bone marrow 
into the blood stream.  
To make Libmeldy and to serve 
as replacement cells if needed. 
To prepare your child’s bone 
marrow for treatment by 
destroying cells in the bone 
marrow so they can be replaced 
with the modified cells in 
Libmeldy. 
To help prevent an allergic 
reaction to the infusion. 
To add stem cells containing 
the ARSA gene into your 
child’s bone marrow. 
To recover and be monitored to 
check if your child’s treatment 
is working and help if they 
have any side effects until the 
doctor is satisfied that it is safe 
for your child to leave the 
hospital.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects are related to the conditioning medicine used to prepare your child’s bone marrow 
for treatment with Libmeldy. 
Talk with your child’s doctor about side effects of the conditioning medicine. You may also read the 
package leaflets for that medicine. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Side effects of the conditioning medicine 
 Tell the doctor or nurse immediately if your child gets any of the following side effects after 
receiving the conditioning medicine. They usually happen between the first few days and 
several weeks after receiving the conditioning medicine but can also develop much later. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
inflammation and sores of the mouth and lips 
•  blood tests showing low level of white blood cells without or with a fever 
•  metabolic acidosis, a condition where the acid levels in the blood are raised 
• 
•  being sick (vomiting) 
• 
•  pain in the right upper abdomen (belly) under the ribs, yellowing of eyes or skin, rapid weight 
enlarged liver 
gain, swelling of arms, legs and abdomen, and trouble breathing. These may be signs of a serious 
liver condition called veno-occlusive disease 
loss of function or decreased function of ovaries  
• 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
trouble sleeping 
abnormal bleeding or bruising - may be caused by low level of blood platelets, reducing the ability 
of blood to clot 
infections which may make your child feel hot (feverish), chilly or sweaty 
chest infection (pneumonia) 
infection of the organs involved in excretion of urine (such as the bladder and urinary tract) 
low level of red blood cells (anaemia)  
excess fluid in body  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  build-up of fluid in the abdomen 
• 
•  headache 
•  nosebleeds 
•  pain in the mouth and throat 
•  diarrhoea 
•  bleeding in the digestive tract 
• 
feeling sick (nausea) 
• 
increase in liver enzymes (transaminases and aminotransferases) seen in blood tests  
• 
itchy skin 
•  back pain 
•  bone pain 
•  decreased urine production 
• 
•  positive test for Aspergillus (lung disease caused by fungus) 
fever 
Side effects of Libmeldy  
The following side effects have been reported with Libmeldy. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•  positive test for antibodies against ARSA. Antibodies are the body's natural defence against 
anything that the body thinks is foreign. 
Reporting of side effects 
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your child’s doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Libmeldy  
The following information is intended for doctors only.  
As this medicine will be given in a hospital, the hospital is responsible for the correct storage of the 
medicine before and during its use, as well as for its correct disposal. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer container and infusion bag 
labels. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the infusion bag is damaged or leaking. 
Store at < -130 °C for up to 6 months. Do not thaw the product until it is ready to be used. Once 
thawed, keep at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C) and use within 2 hours. Do not refreeze. 
This medicine contains genetically-modified human cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be 
disposed of in compliance with the local guidelines on handling human-derived material. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Libmeldy contains  
-  The active substance of Libmeldy consists of your child’s own stem cells that contain working 
copies of the ARSA gene. The concentration per bag is 2–10 × 106 cells per millilitre. 
-  The other ingredients are a solution used to preserve frozen cells and sodium chloride (see section 
2, Libmeldy contains sodium). 
This medicine contains genetically modified human blood cells. 
What Libmeldy looks like and contents of the pack 
Libmeldy is a clear to slightly cloudy, colourless to yellow or pink dispersion of cells that is supplied 
in one or more clear infusion bags, each packed in a pouch inside a closed metal container.  
Your child’s name and date of birth, as well as coded information identifying your child as the patient, 
are printed onto each infusion bag and each metal container. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
Basisweg 10,  
1043 AP Amsterdam,  
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Zambon Scientific Park 
Via Meucci 3 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200091 Bresso (MI) 
Italy 
AGC Biologics S.p.A. 
Via Olgettina 58 
20132 
Milan 
Italy 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
It is important that you read the entire content of this procedure prior to administering Libmeldy.  
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product  
•  This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Libmeldy 
must take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective clothing and eye protection) to 
avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
•  Libmeldy must remain at < -130 °C at all times, until the content of the bag is thawed for infusion.  
Defining the dose to be administered  
•  The dose to be infused and number of Libmeldy infusion bags to be used should be defined based 
on the total number of CD34+ cells supplied indicated on the Lot Information Sheet (i.e. the 
‘supplied dose’, calculated based on patient’s weight at time of cell harvest). The dose of 
Libmeldy to be administered should also take into account the patient’s weight at the time of 
treatment, and the fact that any bag used should be administered in its entirety.  
•  Careful consideration must be given to the volume of infusion in relation to age and weight of the 
patient. When the dose of Libmeldy to be infused represents more than one bag, it should be 
ensured prior to infusion that the volume of medicinal product to be infused is compatible with the 
recommended limit of DMSO, i.e. the total volume of DMSO administered should remain < 1% of 
the patient’s estimated plasma volume. Therefore, the maximum volume of Libmeldy to be 
administered should remain < 20% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume.  
•  The following graph is provided as a reference in order to determine the maximum volume of 
Libmeldy which can be infused to a patient based on their estimated plasma volume.  
Guidance on DMSO safety limit: the maximum volume of Libmeldy to be administered should 
remain < 20% of the patient’s estimated plasma volume. 
47 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparation prior to administration 
•  A patient may have multiple infusion bags. Each infusion bag is provided inside an overwrap bag, 
which is contained in a metal cassette.  
•  The overwrapped infusion bag(s) must be kept inside the metal cassette(s) in the vapour phase of 
liquid nitrogen at < -130 °C until ready to thaw and infuse. 
•  Account for all infusion bags and confirm each infusion bag is within the expiry date using the 
accompanying Lot Information Sheet. 
•  Sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection should be available to prime the 
tubing prior to infusion, and to flush the infusion bag and tubing after infusion. 
Checking prior to thawing  
•  Do not remove the metal cassette from cryogenic storage and thaw Libmeldy until the patient is 
ready to be infused. The timing of thaw of the infusion bag(s) containing Libmeldy and of the 
infusion should be coordinated. Confirm the infusion time in advance and adjust the start time for 
thaw so that Libmeldy is available for infusion when the recipient is ready.  
•  Open the metal cassette and inspect the overwrap bag and infusion bag for any breaches of 
integrity before thawing. If an infusion bag is compromised, follow the local guidelines on 
handling of waste of human-derived material and contact Orchard Therapeutics immediately.  
•  Prior to thawing Libmeldy, it must be verified that the patient identity matches the unique patient 
information reported on the packaging labels and on the accompanying Lot Information Sheet. 
Libmeldy is intended solely for autologous use. Do not thaw or infuse Libmeldy if the information 
on the patient-specific label on the infusion bag does not match the intended patient.  
Thawing  
•  After careful removal from the metal cassette, thaw the infusion bag in its sealed overwrap bag at 
37 °C in a controlled thawing device until there is no visible ice in the infusion bag.  
•  Once thawing is complete, the bag should be removed immediately from the thawing device. 
•  The overwrap bag should be carefully opened to remove the infusion bag which should be kept at 
room temperature (20 °C-25 °C) until infusion. 
•  Gently massage the infusion bag to resuspend the cells. The content of the infusion bag should be 
inspected for any remaining visible cellular aggregates. Small clumps of cellular material should 
disperse with gentle manual mixing. Do not shake the bag.  
•  The infusion bag should not be washed, spun down, sampled and/or resuspended in new media 
prior to infusion. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Libmeldy should not be irradiated as irradiation could lead to inactivation of the product. 
• 
If more than one infusion bag is provided for the patient treatment dose, the next bag should only 
be thawed after the content of the preceding bag has been fully infused. 
Administration  
•  Libmeldy should be administered as an intravenous infusion via a central venous catheter, per the 
qualified treatment centre’s standard procedures for cell therapy products. 
•  The recommended administration set consists of a blood transfusion set equipped with a 200 µm 
filter. 
•  Each bag should be infused by gravity within 2 hours of thaw, including any interruption during 
the infusion, to maintain maximum product viability. 
•  The maximum infusion rate is 5 mL/kg/h, and the content of each bag should be infused within 
approximately 30 minutes. 
•  When more than one bag of Libmeldy is needed, only one bag of product should be infused per 
hour. 
•  Patients not previously exposed to DMSO should be observed closely. Vital signs (blood pressure, 
heart rate, and oxygen saturation) and the occurrence of any symptom should be monitored for up 
to 3 hours following the infusion. 
•  At the end of the infusion, flush all Libmeldy remaining in the infusion bag and any associated 
tubing with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to ensure that as many cells as 
possible are infused into the patient. Careful consideration must be given to the volume of infusion 
in relation to the age and weight of the patient. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
• 
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human-derived material must be 
followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Libmeldy must 
be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product  
•  Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Libmeldy (solid and 
liquid waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with 
local guidelines on handling human-derived material. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
