EMA/559368/2020 
EMEA/H/C/product number
Libmeldy (autologous CD34+ cell enriched population that 
contains haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells 
transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the 
human arylsulfatase A gene)
An overview of Libmeldy and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Libmeldy and what is it used for?
Libmeldy is a medicine used to treat children with metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). MLD is a rare 
inherited disorder in which there is a change (mutation) in a gene needed to make an enzyme called 
arylsulfatase A (ARSA), which breaks down substances called sulfatides. As a result, sulfatides build up 
and damage the nervous system and other organs, causing symptoms such as walking difficulties, 
gradual mental deterioration and eventual death.
Libmeldy is used in children with MLD who have mutations in the ARSA gene. It is given to 


those with late infantile or early juvenile forms of the disease who have not yet developed 
symptoms; 
those with early juvenile MLD who have initial symptoms but can still walk independently and have 
not yet developed mental deterioration.
Libmeldy is a type of advanced therapy medicine called a ‘gene therapy’. This type of medicine works 
by delivering genes into the body. The active substance in Libmeldy is stem cells, (CD34+ cells), 
derived from the patient’s own bone marrow or blood, that have been modified to contain a copy of the 
gene to make ARSA and can divide to produce other sorts of blood cells. 
MLD is rare, and Libmeldy was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
13 April 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu307446.
How is Libmeldy used?
Libmeldy can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be given in a specialist 
transplant centre.
To prepare Libmeldy, a sample containing stem cells is collected either from the patient’s bone marrow 
or blood. These are modified to make Libmeldy by including a copy of the gene to make ARSA.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Libmeldy can only be given to the patient whose cells were used to make the medicine. It is a single 
treatment, given as an infusion (drip) into a vein, and the dose depends on the patient’s weight. A few 
days before treatment another medicine, busulfan, is given as a so-called conditioning treatment, to 
clear out existing bone marrow cells so they can be replaced with the modified cells in Libmeldy. 
Patients are also given other medicines before treatment to reduce the risk of reactions.
For more information about using Libmeldy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Libmeldy work?
To make Libmeldy, the CD34+ cells (cells that can make white blood cells) are extracted from the 
blood or bone marrow. A gene allowing them to make ARSA is inserted into the CD34+ cells using a 
type of virus called a lentivirus, which has been altered genetically so that it can carry the ARSA gene 
into cells and does not cause viral disease in humans.
Once given back into the patient’s vein, Libmeldy is transported in the bloodstream to the bone 
marrow where the CD34+ cells start to grow and make normal white blood cells that can produce 
working ARSA. These white blood cells spread through the body and produce ARSA, helping to break 
down sulfatides in the surrounding cells, and so controlling symptoms of the disease. The effects are 
expected to be long-lasting.
What benefits of Libmeldy have been shown in studies?
The benefits of Libmeldy in treating MLD were shown in a main study involving 20 children with late 
infantile or early juvenile MLD. ARSA activity increased in all the children to levels above or within the 
range for healthy children within 3 months of treatment. After 2 years, the overall Gross Motor 
Function Measure score (a value between 0 and 100 measuring a developing child’s ability to make 
normal movements such as crawling, standing and walking) was 72.5 in the group with late infantile 
MLD, compared to 7.4 in records of similar untreated children. Similarly, in children with early juvenile 
MLD, the average score 2 years after treatment with Libmeldy was 76.5, whereas that in previous 
untreated cases was 36.3. Benefit was greatest in children who had not yet developed symptoms and 
seemed to be lost in those who could no longer walk independently or had developed mental 
deterioration.
There was evidence of continuing benefit on follow-up for up to 8 years.
What are the risks associated with Libmeldy?
The most common side effect with Libmeldy (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
development of antibodies to ARSA, although this does not seem to affect how well Libmeldy works. As 
a result of the conditioning treatment with busulfan, low white cell counts, sometimes with fever (a 
sign of infection), metabolic acidosis (imbalance in the body’s acid levels), stomatitis (mouth 
inflammation), vomiting, hepatomegaly (enlarged liver), veno-occlusive liver disease (when blood 
vessels to the liver become blocked causing liver damage) and ovarian failure in girls are also very 
common.
For the full list of side effects of Libmeldy, see the package leaflet.
Libmeldy must not be used in patients who have had previous gene therapy involving blood stem cells, 
or in those who cannot be given the medicines needed to prepare them for producing or receiving 
Libmeldy. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet.
Libmeldy (autologous CD34+ cell enriched population that contains haematopoietic 
stem and progenitor cells transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the 
human arylsulfatase A gene) 
EMA/559368/2020
Page 2/3
Why is Libmeldy authorised in the EU?
The benefits of Libmeldy in patients with MLD who had not yet developed symptoms were clear, and 
during the study period patients maintained similar progress to healthy subjects. Benefit was less 
marked and more variable in those with early juvenile MLD who already have symptoms, so use in this 
group was restricted to those who can still walk and have not developed decline in mental function. 
Although benefit with Libmeldy lasted several years it is not yet clear whether it will persist life-long, 
and extended follow-up is needed. Because MLD is a rare disease, the studies are necessarily small 
and the amount of data available on side effects is limited, and will also need long-term follow-up; 
however, side effects seen to date were in line with those expected for this type of treatment. Given 
the seriousness of the condition and the lack of existing treatments, the European Medicines Agency 
decided that Libmeldy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Libmeldy?
The company that markets Libmeldy will carry out a long-term study to provide further information on 
the benefits and safety of the medicine, and will take steps to ensure that patients who qualify for the 
treatment can have the medicine produced quickly so they can be treated as early as possible, before 
symptoms start or progress. In addition, the company will provide educational materials for healthcare 
professionals and patients or their carers on how Libmeldy is to be used and monitored, and a patient 
alert card about their treatment for patients to show when receiving healthcare.
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Libmeldy have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Libmeldy are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Libmeldy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.
Other information about Libmeldy
Libmeldy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 December 2020.
Further information on Libmeldy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/libmeldy. 
This overview was last updated in 12-2020.
Libmeldy (autologous CD34+ cell enriched population that contains haematopoietic 
stem and progenitor cells transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the 
human arylsulfatase A gene) 
EMA/559368/2020
Page 3/3
