PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for LIBTAYO® (cemiplimab) 
This is a summary of the RMP for cemiplimab.  The RMP details important risks of cemiplimab, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about cemiplimab 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cemiplimab  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how cemiplimab should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for cemiplimab should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of  the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of cemiplimab 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For
Cemiplimab is authorised as monotherapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
(1) Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with mCSCC or laCSCC 
who are not candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation. 
(2) Basal Cell Carcinoma
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic basal cell carcinoma (laBCC or mBCC) who have progressed on or are intolerant to 
a hedgehog pathway inhibitor (HHI). 
(3) Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) expressing PD-L1 (in ≥ 50% tumour cells), with no EGFR, ALK or 
ROS1 aberrations, who have: 
• locally advanced NSCLC who are not candidates for definitive chemoradiation, or
• metastatic NSCLC.
(4) Cervical Cancer
LIBTAYO  as  a  monotherapy  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  recurrent  or 
metastatic cervical cancer and disease progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy  
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  cemiplimab  benefits  can  be  found  in  cemiplimab 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage with the product’s EPAR summary. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise
the Risks
Important risks of cemiplimab, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about cemiplimab's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  cemiplimab,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of cemiplimab is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important  risks  of  cemiplimab  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of cemiplimab.  Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.    Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information: 
Important Identified Risks: 
•
•
imARs
IRRs
Important Potential Risks: 
Lack of effect due to ADAs  
Missing Information: 
Long-term safety data 
II.B Summary of Important Risks
Important Identified Risk: Immune-mediated Adverse Reactions 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to the Medicine 
A total of 229 (20.5%) patients exposed to cemiplimab in 
clinical  trials  included  in  the  RMP  experienced  at  least 
1 imAR.  including  4  patients  (0.4%)  with  grade  5, 
7 patients  (0.6%)  with  grade  4,  60 patients  (5.4%)  with 
grade 3 and  imARs.  Immune-mediated adverse reactions 
occurred in 20.5% of patients treated with cemiplimab in 
clinical trials including grade 5 (0.4%), Grade 4 (0.6%), 
grade 3 (5.4%), and grade 2 (10.9%).  Fifty-one (4.6%) 
patients discontinued treatment due to imARs. 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Patients with a history of or ongoing autoimmune disease 
may  be  at  higher  risk  of  developing  imAEs  and  were 
excluded 
for 
cemiplimab.    Patients  who  were  previously  exposed  to 
idelalisib may be at increased risk of experiencing severe 
immune-mediated mucocutaneous adverse reactions.   
the  development  programme 
from 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk communication messages: 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Routine  risk  minimisation  activities  recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
PL sections 2 and 3 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  beyond  the 
Product Information:  
Legal status: 
is  subject 
restricted  medical 
Cemiplimab 
prescription,  and  treatment  must  be  initiated  and 
supervised  by  physicians  experienced 
the 
treatment of cancer. 
to 
in 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Patient Guide and Alert Card 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion-related Reactions 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to the Medicine 
In Study 1423, Study 1540, Study 1620, Study 1624 and 
Study  1676,  IRRs  occurred 
in  patients  receiving 
cemiplimab.  These have also been observed in patients 
exposed to other PD-1 inhibitors. 
Infusion-related  reaction  occurred  in  7.4%  (83/1116)  of 
patients  receiving  cemiplimab  including  1  (<0.1%) 
patient with grade 3 IRRs. Infusion-related reaction led to 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion-related Reactions 
permanent  discontinuation  of  cemiplimab  in  1  (<0.1%) 
patient. The most common symptoms of infusion-related 
reaction were nausea, pyrexia, and vomiting. All patients 
recovered from infusion-related reaction. 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Even though all patients are potentially at risk of IRRs, 
patients  with  documented  allergic  reactions  or  acute 
antibody 
hypersensitivity 
treatments  may  be  at  higher  risk  of  developing  severe 
IRRs  and  were  excluded  from 
the  development 
programme for cemiplimab.  
attributed 
reactions 
to 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine communication messages: 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Routine  risk  minimisation  activities  recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4. 
PL sections 2 and 3 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  beyond  the 
Product Information:  
Legal status: 
is  subject 
Cemiplimab 
restricted  medical 
prescription  and  treatment  must  be  initiated  and 
the 
supervised  by  physicians  experienced 
treatment of cancer. 
to 
in 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Use of specific follow-up questionnaire for spontaneous 
post-authorisation reports of IRRs 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Patient Guide and Alert Card 
Important Potential Risks: Lack of Effect due to Anti-drug Antibodies 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to the Medicine 
the 
studies, 
prevalence 
nonclinical 
In 
of 
immunogenicity/ADA  was  high;  however,  continuous 
exposure  was  maintained  for  80%  and  50%  of  animals 
throughout  the  4-week  and  26-week  toxicology  studies, 
respectively.    As  cemiplimab  is  a  human  antibody,  the 
presence of ADA following cemiplimab administration to 
cynomolgus  monkeys  was  expected  and  not  considered 
predictive of the human ADA response to cemiplimab.  
the  5  clinical  studies  presented 
In 
in  this  RMP 
(Study 1423,  Study  1540,  Study  1620,  Study  1624  and 
Study 1676), the incidence of treatment-emergent  ADA 
Important Potential Risks: Lack of Effect due to Anti-drug Antibodies 
was  low  (2.2%)  in  all  patients  receiving  cemiplimab 
350 mg  Q3W.  Antibody  titers  in  all  ADA-positive 
patients  were  all  low.  Of  the  patients  who  developed 
treatment-emergent  antibodies  to  cemiplimab,  none 
developed  NAb.  The  incidence  of  persistent  ADA  was 
low  (0.3%) 
in  all  patients  receiving  cemiplimab. 
Immunogenicity  in  patients  with  R/M  cervical  cancer 
from  Study  1676  (206  patients,  including  164  patients 
with SCC histology and 42 patients with AC histology), 
was low with no apparent difference in the occurrence of 
immunogenicity (ADA) based on histology. Pre-existing 
ADA  occurred  in  6  patients  with  R/M  cervical  cancer 
(2.9%).  Treatment-emergent  ADA  (1.9%  in  total)  was 
observed  in  4  patients  with  SCC,  1  was  transient  and 
3 were indeterminate; all were low titers (<1,000). None 
of  the  ADA-positive  samples  revealed  the  presence  of 
neutralizing 
of 
immunogenicity/ADA  on  cemiplimab  exposure  was 
observed  in  patients  with  R/M  cervical  cancer  in  this 
study.  The  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  ADA  in 
patients  with BCC in Study 1620 (3.2%)  was similar to 
the  incidence  across  all  studies  and  cemiplimab  dose 
regimens. The incidence of treatment-emergent ADA in 
patients  with  NSCLC  in  Study  1624  (2.3%)  was 
consistent with the incidence observed across all studies. 
Only  1  patient  (in  Study 1423)  showed  evidence  of 
altered  PK  profile  with  anti-cemiplimab  antibody 
development;  this  was  the  only  patient  in  the  4  studies 
with a moderate maximum titer.  The presence of ADA 
was  not  associated  with  significant  adverse  events  or 
imAEs. 
antibodies. 
effect 
No 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Risk  factors  are  unknown.    Any  patient  who  receives 
cemiplimab has a potential risk of developing ADAs.  
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine communication messages: 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  beyond  the 
Product Information:  
Legal status: 
is  subject 
Cemiplimab 
restricted  medical 
prescription  and  treatment  must  be  initiated  and 
supervised  by  physicians  experienced 
the 
treatment of cancer. 
in 
to 
II.C Post-authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1 Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Not applicable 
Basal cell carcinoma 
R2810-ONC-1620 (Group 1, mBCC) - A phase 2 study of cemiplimab in patients with advanced 
BCC who experienced progression of disease on Hedgehog Pathway  Inhibitor therapy or were 
intolerant of prior Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor therapy. 
Rationale and Study Objectives: 
To further confirm clinical efficacy and safety of cemiplimab in mBCC, the MAH should submit 
the  primary  analysis  for  mBCC  and  the  final  study  report  from  clinical  study  1620  evaluating 
objective  response  rate  and  duration  of  response  of  cemiplimab  in  patients  with  mBCC  who 
experienced progression of disease on hedgehog pathway inhibitor therapy or were intolerant of 
prior hedgehog pathway inhibitor therapy.  
The primary objective of the study was to estimate the ORR for mBCC (Group 1) or unresectable 
laBCC  (Group  2),  according  to  central  review,  when  treated  with  cemiplimab  monotherapy  in 
patients who had progressed on HHI therapy, or were intolerant of prior HHI therapy. 
Study Design: 
This is an ongoing phase 2, non-randomized, 2-group, multicenter study of cemiplimab at a 350 
mg dose administered IV Q3W in patients with advanced BCC who experienced progression of 
disease on HHI therapy, experienced a response no better than stable disease for at least 9 months 
or were intolerant of prior HHI therapy. 
Study Population: 
The study has 2 groups.  Group 1 is for patients with metastatic BCC.  Group 2 is for adult patients 
with locally advanced BCC.   
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan
Not applicable 
