EMA/101482/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004844 
Libtayo (cemiplimab) 
An overview of Libtayo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Libtayo and what is it used for? 
Libtayo is a cancer medicine used in adults to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
a type of skin cancer called cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma when the cancer is locally 
advanced (has spread nearby) or metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body). It is used in 
patients who cannot have surgery or treatment with radiation to cure their disease; 
a type of skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma (BCC) when the cancer is locally advanced or 
metastatic. It is used in patients who cannot tolerate treatment with a type of medicine called a 
‘hedgehog pathway inhibitor (HHI)’ or whose disease has worsened after such treatment; 
a type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) when the cancer is locally 
advanced and cannot be treated with chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) and radiation 
therapy, or when the cancer is metastatic. It is used either alone in patients whose tumours have a 
protein called PD-L1 in more than 50% of cells and no mutations in the genes EGFR, ALK and ROS1 
involved in the development of NSCLC, or together with platinum-based chemotherapy in patients 
whose tumours have PD-L1 in at least 1% of the cells and no mutations in the EGFR, ALK and 
ROS1 genes. 
• 
cervical cancer that has come back (recurrent) or is metastatic. It is used in patients whose 
disease has progressed during or after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Libtayo contains the active substance cemiplimab. 
How is Libtayo used? 
Treatment with Libtayo must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in treating cancer. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Libtayo is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein once every 3 weeks. Treatment can continue for as 
long as the disease remains stable and the patient does not experience unacceptable side effects. 
For more information about using Libtayo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Libtayo work? 
The active substance in Libtayo, cemiplimab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a receptor (target) called PD-1 found on certain cells of the 
immune system called T cells. Cancer cells can make proteins (PD-L1 and PD-L2) that attach to this 
receptor and switch off the activity of the T cells, preventing them from attacking the cancer. By 
attaching to the receptor, cemiplimab prevents PD-L1 and PD-L2 from switching off the T cells, thereby 
increasing the ability of the immune system to kill cancer cells.  
What benefits of Libtayo have been shown in studies? 
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 
Libtayo is effective at treating cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in patients. In a main study 
involving a total of 193 patients, the cancer shrank in around 39% of patients with metastatic disease 
who received Libtayo every 3 weeks for around one year. Among patients with locally advanced 
disease who received Libtayo every 2 weeks for around 2 years, 44% of patients showed shrinkage of 
their cancer.  
Basal cell carcinoma 
Treatment with Libtayo showed benefits in patients with locally advanced and metastatic BCC. In a 
study involving patients who were given Libtayo for around one year, the cancer shrank in 32% (27 
out of 84) of patients with locally advanced disease and 29% (10 out of 35) of patients with metastatic 
disease. Libtayo was not compared with another treatment in this study. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
In a study involving 710 patients with advanced or metastatic EGFR/ALK/ROS1-negative NSCLC with 
high levels of PD-L1 (in more than 50% of tumour cells), patients treated with Libtayo lived longer 
(about 22 months on average) than those treated with platinum-based chemotherapy (about 14 
months). Patients treated with Libtayo lived without their disease getting worse for 6.2 months on 
average, compared with 5.6 months for patients given chemotherapy.  
A second study involving 466 patients with advanced or metastatic EGFR/ALK/ROS1-negative NSCLC 
found that in patients whose tumours produce PD-L1 in at least 1% of cells, Libtayo given with 
platinum-based chemotherapy increased the time that patients lived. Of the 327 patients with PD-L1 in 
at least 1% of tumour cells, those treated with Libtayo plus platinum-based chemotherapy lived for an 
average of 22 months compared with 13 months for those treated with platinum-based chemotherapy 
alone. In addition, patients treated with Libtayo plus chemotherapy lived for about 9 months without 
their disease getting worse, compared with 6 months for patients given chemotherapy alone.  
Cervical cancer 
In a main study in 608 patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer previously treated with 
platinum-based chemotherapy, patients given Libtayo lived for about 12 months, compared with 8.5 
months for those given chemotherapy. On average, patients treated with Libtayo lived without their 
disease getting worse for 2.8 months, compared with 2.9 months for patients given chemotherapy. 
What are the risks associated with Libtayo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Libtayo, see the package leaflet. 
Libtayo is associated with side effects related to the activity of the immune system, which can be 
serious, although most side effects go away with appropriate treatment or on stopping the medicine.  
Libtayo (cemiplimab)  
EMA/101482/2023 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
When Libtayo is used alone, the most common immune-related effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 
people) include hypothyroidism (an underactive thyroid gland with tiredness, weight gain, and skin and 
hair changes), hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid gland which can cause weight loss, nervousness, 
rapid heartbeat and tiredness), pneumonitis (inflammation in the lungs causing shortness of breath 
and cough), hepatitis (inflammation of the liver), colitis (inflammation of the large bowel) and skin 
reactions. 
When Libtayo is used with platinum-based chemotherapy, the most common immune-related effects 
(which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, increased or 
decreased levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone in the blood (which could be signs of an underactive 
or overactive thyroid gland), skin reactions and pneumonitis. 
Severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (life-
threatening reactions with flu-like symptoms and painful rash affecting the skin, mouth, eyes and 
genitals) have been reported with Libtayo. 
Why is Libtayo authorised in the EU? 
Libtayo is effective at treating cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, a cancer with few treatment 
options once it has spread, and basal cell carcinoma, for which no other options were available for 
second-line treatment (treatment given when first treatment is not sufficiently effective or stops 
working) at the time of authorisation. Libtayo also showed promising effectiveness in the treatment of 
NSCLC with high PD-L1 levels and in the treatment of cervical cancer after progression during or after 
treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Libtayo used in combination with platinum-based 
chemotherapy is also effective at treating NSCLC where at least 1% of tumour cells produce PD-L1. 
As for the medicine’s safety, Libtayo’s side effects are considered manageable and similar to those 
seen with other monoclonal antibody cancer treatments. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Libtayo’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Libtayo was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come about 
the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the authorisation has 
been switched from conditional to full authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Libtayo? 
The company that markets Libtayo will provide a guide and an alert card for patients with information 
on the signs and symptoms of immune-related side effects of the medicine, as well as instructions on 
contacting their doctor if they experience symptoms. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Libtayo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Libtayo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Libtayo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Libtayo 
Libtayo received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 28 June 2019. This 
was switched to a standard marketing authorisation on 1 July 2022. 
Libtayo (cemiplimab)  
EMA/101482/2023 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Further information on Libtayo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/libtayo.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Libtayo (cemiplimab)  
EMA/101482/2023 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
