30 April 2020 
EMA/371795/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): cemiplimab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010780/201909 
Period covered by the PSUR: 26 March 2019 to 26 September 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for cemiplimab, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Regarding the risk of myositis, the search identified three evaluable cases of immune related myositis 
associated with cemiplimab treatment. Of these three cases, two patients also developed myasthenia 
gravis and immune related hepatitis. The onset of myositis in all three cases was shortly following first 
or second dose of cemiplimab. The events were assessed by the physician as related to cemiplimab 
treatment and subsequently improved with corticosteroids.  The risk of myositis is a known risk for the 
class products. The MAH is requested to include the risk of myositis in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Regarding the risk of transplant rejection, the search identified four well documented cases of renal 
transplant rejection following one or two doses of cemiplimab treatment. All cases had transplant many 
years before receiving cemiplimab, and the transplant rejection occurred 2-3 weeks following 
treatment. One case had a fatal outcome. In two cases the HCPs indicated that they were aware of the 
risk of transplant rejection with cemiplimab treatment, but that no other treatment options were 
available for their patients. The risk of solid organ transplant rejection is well described class effect of 
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy, listed in the product information of the class products. In line with the 
class products, the MAH is requested to include the risk of “solid organ transplant rejection” in the 
product information.  
Regarding the risk of dyspnoea, the search identified 55 cases, of which approximately half were 
considered related or secondary to infusion related reactions/hypersensitivity or immune-related 
reactions. In 17 cases, the event of dyspnoea occurred without other signs, symptoms or underlying 
disease. For HCPs and patients, it is considered relevant to include a warning regarding dyspnoea, as 
they (especially patients) may not immediately assume dyspnoea to be a part of infusion related 
reactions or immune-related AEs. Furthermore, the risk of dyspnoea is a very commonly known risk for 
the class products.  In line with the product information of the class products, the MAH is requested to 
include the risk of dyspnoea in the product information. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for cemiplimab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing cemiplimab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/371795/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
