8 August 2011 
EMA/615191/2011 
EMEA/H/C/000089 
The recommendations in this document were valid during the supply 
shortage of Caelyx which was resolved in April 2013. For the updated 
recommendations see here. 
Likely shortage of Caelyx (doxorubicin hydrochloride) 
The European Medicines Agency has become aware of supply problems that are likely to result in a 
shortage of the anticancer medicine Caelyx in several EU Member States starting from August 2011. 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Use (CHMP) is recommending that patients already 
receiving treatment with Caelyx be given priority and that alternative treatments be considered for 
new patients. 
What is Caelyx? 
Caelyx is an anti-cancer medicine that contains the active substance doxorubicin hydrochloride. It is 
available as a concentrate to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein).  
Caelyx is used in the treatment of the following cancers: metastatic breast cancer, advanced cancer of 
the ovary, Kaposi’s sarcoma (a cancer of the blood vessels) in patients with acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS), and multiple myeloma (a cancer of the cells in the bone marrow).  
The active substance, doxorubicin hydrochloride, has been available since the 1960s. In Caelyx, it is 
contained within ‘pegylated liposomes’ (tiny fatty spheres that are coated with a chemical called 
polyethylene glycol). This reduces the rate at which it is broken down, allowing it to circulate in the 
blood for longer. 
What is the cause of the supply problem and how long will it last? 
The company that markets Caelyx, Janssen-Cilag, has informed the Agency that problems with 
capacity at Ben Venue Laboratories, USA, where the medicine is manufactured, and investigations 
relating to the manufacturing process have delayed the release of batches of Caelyx to the EU market. 
This is likely to result in shortages in several EU countries from August 2011. Intermittent supply 
problems may persist for the remainder of the year. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7129   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Caelyx is also used in combination with some other anticancer medicines, their use may be affected 
by the shortage. 
What are the recommendations of the CHMP to cope with the shortage? 
Doctors will need to make treatment decisions on an individual patient basis after a thorough 
discussion of the available options. The following need to be considered: 
•  During the shortage, priority should be given to continuing the treatment of patients already being 
treated with Caelyx rather than starting new patients on the medicine. 
• 
Patients already on Caelyx should be reassured that the supply problems are not due to concerns 
over safety or quality of the medicine. 
•  Medicines containing non-liposomal and non-pegylated forms of doxorubicin are not bioequivalent 
to Caelyx and should only be used as an alternative after a consideration of their benefits and risks 
to the individual patient.  
•  Non-anthracycline anticancer medicines may be considered as an alternative treatment. 
The Committee is working closely with Janssen-Cilag to ensure that normal supply is resumed as soon 
as possible in the interest of patients. The Committee has also agreed that the company should 
provide a letter to the healthcare professionals in the EU, explaining the supply situation in their 
countries together with recommendations to manage the situation. 
The current European public assessment report for Caelyx can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
Likely shortage of Caelyx (doxorubicin hydrochloride)  
EMA/615191/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
