EMA/418451/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000393 
Liprolog (insulin lispro) 
An overview of Liprolog and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Liprolog and what is it used for? 
Liprolog is a range of insulin medicines used to treat patients who have diabetes and need insulin to 
keep their blood glucose (sugar) level controlled, including patients whose diabetes has just been 
diagnosed.  
Liprolog medicines contain the active substance insulin lispro on its own or combined with protamine to 
make it longer acting: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Liprolog (100 units/ml): standard-strength insulin lispro (fast-acting); 
Liprolog (200 units/ml): high-strength insulin lispro (fast-acting); 
Liprolog Mix25 (100 units/ml): 25% insulin lispro (fast-acting) and 75% insulin lispro protamine 
(longer-acting); 
Liprolog Mix50 (100 units/ml): 50% insulin lispro (fast-acting) and 50% insulin lispro protamine 
(longer-acting). 
How is Liprolog used? 
Liprolog medicines are available as solutions or suspensions for injection in vials, cartridges or prefilled 
pens.  
The medicines are given by injection under the skin of the upper arm, thigh, buttock or abdomen 
(belly). Liprolog 100 units/ml may also be given by continuous infusion under the skin using an insulin 
pump or by injection into a vein. Liprolog 200 units/ml, Liprolog Mix25 and Liprolog Mix50 should 
never be given into a vein. 
The dose depends on the individual patient’s needs and may be reduced in patients with reduced 
kidney or liver function. The medicines are normally given shortly before a meal, but can be given just 
after a meal if necessary.  
Liprolog (100 or 200 units/ml) can be used with a longer-acting insulin or with sulphonylureas (a group 
of diabetes medicines that are taken by mouth). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Patients can inject themselves with this medicine if they have been trained appropriately. 
Liprolog can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Liprolog, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Liprolog work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of glucose 
in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Liprolog is a replacement insulin 
which is very similar to the insulin made by the body. 
The active substance in Liprolog, insulin lispro, is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA 
technology’: it is made by bacteria into which a gene (DNA) has been introduced, which makes them 
able to produce insulin lispro. 
Insulin lispro has a small difference from human insulin that allows it to be absorbed faster by the body 
so it can act shortly after injection. Liprolog Mix25 and Liprolog Mix50 contain both insulin lispro and a 
longer-acting form called insulin lispro protamine, which is absorbed more slowly so that it works for 
longer.  
Liprolog works in the same way as naturally produced insulin and helps glucose from the blood to enter 
cells. By controlling the level of blood glucose, the symptoms and complications of diabetes are 
reduced. 
What benefits of Liprolog have been shown in studies? 
Liprolog was originally studied in eight clinical trials including 2,951 patients with type 1 diabetes 
(when the body cannot produce insulin) or type 2 diabetes (when the body is unable to use insulin 
effectively). The effectiveness of Liprolog was compared with that of Humulin R (a soluble recombinant 
DNA human insulin), when added to long-acting insulins given once or twice a day.  
The studies measured the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), 
which gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled, and ‘fasting’ blood glucose levels 
(measured when the patient had not eaten for at least eight hours). Liprolog and Humulin R had a 
similar effect on the control of diabetes, as measured by HbA1c and fasting glucose levels. 
Studies also looked at the use of Liprolog in 542 patients aged between two and 19 years. The 
medicine’s effects in the body were similar in both adults and children.  
Studies on the use of Liprolog in combination with sulphonylureas showed that these medicines used 
together reduce HbA1c more than sulphonylureas used alone. 
What are the risks associated with Liprolog? 
Liprolog may cause hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels) and must not be given to patients whose 
blood glucose is already low.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Liprolog, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Liprolog authorised in the EU? 
Liprolog has been shown to effectively reduce glucose levels and is comparable to human insulin. The 
European Medicines Agency decided that Liprolog’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
Liprolog (insulin lispro)  
EMA/418451/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Liprolog? 
When first marketing the high-strength Liprolog (200 units/ml), the company provided information for 
patients and healthcare professionals to advise them of the 2 strengths and on how to use them safely 
to avoid medication errors. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Liprolog have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Liprolog are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Liprolog are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Liprolog 
Liprolog received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 1 August 2001.  
Further information on Liprolog can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018. 
Liprolog (insulin lispro)  
EMA/418451/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
