SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Liprolog.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Liprolog  (insulin  lispro)  is  an  analogue  protein  of  human  insulin  obtained  by  recombinant  DNA 
technology which have a reverse position of the aminoacids at positions 28 (lysine) and 29 (proline) 
on insulin’s B chain when compared to the natural sequence of the human insulin. This recombinant 
protein is synthesised in a special non-disease-producing laboratory strain of Escherichia coli bacteria 
that  has  been  genetically modified  and  subsequently  transformed  and  purified  in  a  series  of  steps  to 
yield zinc-insulin lispro crystals which are then formulated into the final drug product. 
The  main  disadvantages  associated  with  the  regular  marketed  insulin  preparations  in  controlling  the 
post-prandial  glucose  levels,  a  slow  onset  effect  and  a  long-lasting  hypoglycemic  activity,  can  be 
minimised  by  the  administration  of  insulin  lispro.  Thus,  after  insulin  lispro  subcutaneous 
administration  a  faster  absorption  from  the  administration  site  with  a  more  rapid  onset  and  shorter 
duration of hypoglycemic action has been observed when compared to regular insulin. 
The  application  contains  appropriate  pharmaceutical  data  as  well  as  pre-clinical  and  clinical 
information to meet the quality, safety and efficacy standards. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Liprolog, insulin lispro, is an analogue of human insulin of recombinant DNA origin. Insulin lispro is 
identical to human insulin in terms of its primary aminoacid sequence except for an inversion of the 
natural proline-lysine sequence on the B-chain at positions 28 and 29. The compound was selected as 
a rapid acting insulin based on its physicochemical characteristic of weak self-association in solution 
and on its monomeric properties. 
Insulin  lispro  is  supplied  either  as  a  clear,  colorless  solution  or  as  a  suspension  for  parenteral 
administration. 
Insulin lispro is produced from a protein that is expressed by a gene incorporated into a plasmid. The 
plasmid  is  contained  within  the  K-12  strain  of  Escherichia  coli.  Material  extracted  from  E  coli  is 
processed and purified at different steps by appropriate chromatographic extraction. 
Appropriate methods are implemented to ensure microbiological control during the different steps of 
insulin lispro processing. 
Several methods of characterising the aminoacid sequencing of insulin lispro, such us peptide mapping 
and X-ray crystallography has been satisfactory utilised. 
The  supporting  data  on  process  validation  include  the  removal  of  impurities  during  the  purification 
process. The levels of materials such as tetracycline, host cell proteins, endotoxins, enzymes used in 
conversion and process intermediates have been considered in the drug substance or at points during 
down stream  processing. The related substances arising from degradation have  also been adequately 
investigated.  
The rationale of using m-Cresol as a preservative and a stabiliser agent has been properly justified and 
documented.  Other  excipients  include  tonicity  modifier  (glycerol),  buffering  agent  (dibasic  sodium 
phosphate), stabiliser (zinc oxide) and pH adjustment for the vehicle. 
The shelf life of the product is 24 months if stored between 2 and 8 ºC. 
The  Company  has  completed  a  declaration  of  compliance  with  annex  to  Directive  75/318/EEC,  as 
amended by Directive 1999/82/EEC relating to TSE. 
1/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposable Pens 
Liprolog-Pen:  the  Pen  contains  a  non-reusable  3.0  ml  (100  U/ml)  Liprolog  cartridge  that  is 
permanently sealed inside the device. It delivers up to 60 units per dose in increments of 1 unit. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder of Humalog, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., consented to the clinical 
data  contained  in  the  original  files  for  Humalog  being  used  for  the  purpose  of  examining  this 
application. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  total  glucodynamic  effects  of  insulin  lispro  were  indistinguishable  from  human  insulin  after 
subcutaneous  administration  in  rats,  dogs,  rabbits  and  pigs.  A  reduction  of  50%  on  the  glucose 
measurements has been found after administering subcutaneous doses in different animal species. 
Insulin  lispro  is  biologically  equivalent  to  insulin  in  several  in  vitro  tests  including  insulin  receptor 
binding  in  cultured  lymphocytes,  human  placenta  and  human  liver,  and  glucose  transport  in 
adipocytes.  Aspartate  B10  insulin  shown  about  a  4-5  fold  higher  binding  affinity  for  the  IGF-1 
receptor. 
In  cell  growth  assays  using  human  smooth  muscle  cells  and  human  mammary  epithelial  cells  and 
3
using  [
H]  thymidine  incorporation  or  increases  in  cell  number  as  an  index  of  cell  growth,  insulin 
lispro  was  shown  to  be  equipotent  to  human  insulin.  AspB10  insulin  was  about  3-fold  more  potent 
than human insulin and insulin lispro in mammary epithelial cells and in one of the two experiments 
using smooth muscle cells it was 14 times more potent than insulin.  
Studies  intended  to  investigate  potential  secondary  pharmacological  effects  revealed  no  unexpected 
effects, and changes on the EEG recording which were found in a cardiovascular experimental study 
carried out in anaesthetised dogs were considered to be due to the hypoglycaemia. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  developed  in  rats  and  dogs  and  included  pharmacokinetics,  tissue 
distribution and elimination studies.  
Toxicology 
No clinical signs or other effects were observed in the single toxicity studies that have been conducted 
in rats and in dogs by the intravascular and subcutaneous route of administration.  
Repeated toxicity studies of 1 month, 6 and 12 months duration in rats and of 1 month and 12 months 
duration in dogs were conducted after subcutaneous administration. No unexpected findings were seen 
in any of these studies.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  inducing  neutralising  antibodies  in  1  month  and  12  months  studies  with 
dogs. 
There was no evidence of mutagenic potential in a battery of mutagenicity studies as recommended by 
the CPMP guidelines and conducted according to the GLP and contemporary standards. 
No  evidence  of  a  tumourigenic  effect  was  seen  in  a  12-  month  study  in  Fischer  344  rats.  Such  a 
finding,  however,  was  observed  in  another  12-  month  toxicological  study  carried  out  with  Sprague-
Dawley  rats  at  similar  doses  of  a  different  insulin  analogue  (Aspartate  B10  insulin).  Carcinogenic 
studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  insulin  lispro.  With  the  absence  of  mutagenic  or  clastogenic 
effects and no proliferative effect in chronic one year toxicity studies the experts consider that there is 
no  need  to  conduct  rodent  carcinogenicity  bioassays  on  the  basis  of  the  overall  toxicological 
information  currently  available.  Moreover,  the  company  was  requested  to  submit  new  additional  ‘in 
vitro  cell’  studies  to  assess  the  stimulation  on  DNA  synthesis  of  insulin  lispro  compared  to  human 
insulin  and  Aspartate  B  10  insulin  in  Hep  G2  human  hepatoma  cells  by  measuring  incorporation  of 
BrdU  and  [3H]-thymidine.  The  overall  results  of  all  replicates  did  not  demonstrate  any  mitogenic 
properties. 
2/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  far  as  the  reproductive  toxicity  information  is  concerned,  a  combined  fertility,  embryotoxicity, 
perinatal  and  postnatal  study  was  carried  out  in  female  and  male  rats  treated  during  the  two  weeks 
prior to mating and the mated females were treated throughout gestation and lactation. The fertility of 
male rats was also assessed during the 6-month chronic toxicity study following 5 months of treatment 
with insulin lispro. And finally an embryo-foetal toxicity study was conducted in rabbits. The overall 
results show that there are no relevant adverse reproductive effects in the animal studies which could 
cause any concern to the prescribing physician. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder of Humalog, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., consented to the clinical 
data  contained  in  the  original  files  for  Humalog  being  used  for  the  purpose  of  examining  this 
application. 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics properties 
The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  carried  out  in  three  randomised  crossover 
open  studies  in  normal  volunteers  using  the  clamp  method  and  biostator  to  keep  the  glucose  blood 
level  as  close  to  fasting  as  possible.  Insulin  lispro  was  compared  to  regular  soluble  human  insulin 
(Humulin  R).  The  absolute  bioavailability  after  subcutaneous  administration  compared  to  the 
intravenous route has been studied. Insulin lispro also displays a linear kinetic behaviour up to dose of 
0.2 U/kg. A consistent pattern of kinetics with a shorter Tmax and half-life and with a higher Cmax 
was  observed  for  insulin  lispro  when  compared  to  the  comparative  insulin  preparation.  A  higher 
glucose infusion early after insulin lispro dosing was required but a lower total glucose was infused.  
No  kinetic  changes  were  observed  when  insulin  Ultralente  was  given  mixed  together  or  at  separate 
sites with insulin lispro. A small decrease in Cmax and a slight increase in Tmax values were the only 
changes  observed  in  the  kinetics  of  insulin  lispro  when  mixed  in  the  same  syringe  with  human 
isophane insulin. 
Data  obtained  from  one  study  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  suggest  that  there  are  no  differences 
between  insulin  lispro  and  the  comparator  on  the  counter  regulatory  hormone  responses  to 
hypoglycaemia measured as GH, adrenaline, nor-adrenaline, cortisol and symptoms. 
Some  additional  pharmacokinetic  information  was  obtained  from  three  studies  involving  diabetic 
patients. A great inter- and intra-varibility was observed for both insulin treatments. In line with the 
results previously obtained with normal subjects, the insulin lispro showed an earlier and a higher peak 
with a similar AUC, and showed less intra-subject variability. 
It  is  well  known  that  the  liver  clears  the  insulin  and  the  most  non-hepatic  clearance  is  by  the  renal 
route.  Previous  studies  have  shown  that  the  insulin  kinetics  are  altered  by  the  renal  impairment 
associated  with  diabetes.  There  was  no  difference  between  the  two  insulins  in  insulin  clearance  in 
renally impaired patients. This study showed that only slightly higher levels were observed in anephric 
patients.  Nonetheless,  this  population  could  not  be  extrapolated  to  the  diabetic  subgroup  of  patients 
with associated renal dysfunction.  
Clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  this  new  modified  recombinant  human  insulin  preparation  has  been  studied  in  eight 
clinical trials involving 2951 diabetic patients who were randomised to the experimental insulin lispro 
treatment or to Humulin R (Lilly soluble rDNA human insulin). 
In all studies one or two daily doses of long-acting insulin (NPH or Ultralente) were combined with 
the short acting insulin before each meal. While there were no clinical therapy studies carried out by 
using  the  intravascular  route,  pharmacokinetic  studies  demonstrated  no  differences  in  the  activity  of 
insulin lispro compared to human insulin when given intravenously. 
As  major  differences  exist  between  the  kinetic  behaviour  of  insulin  lispro  compared  to  the  regular 
insulin, an open design was considered to be more appropriate rather than using a double-blind one. 
Thus,  the  Humulin  R  should  be  given  30-45  minutes  before  a  meal  and  the  investigational  insulin 
should  be  injected  immediately.  The  double  dummy  technique  was  not  used  since  it  was  felt  that 
3/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients would not comply with two injections before each meal over a one year period. Nonetheless, 
it  has  been  recognised  that  many  patients  do  inject  the  regular  insulin  just  before  a  meal  without 
keeping the recommended preprandial optimal time. 
The criteria to define the population to be enrolled into the studies were very similar and four of them 
included  Type  I  and  the  other  four  Type  II  diabetes.  Six  studies  were  one  year  parallel  group 
comparisons;  of  these,  two  were  carried  out  in  new  diabetics  and  four  in  established  diabetics;  the 
comparator was insulin ultralente in two studies and under NPH insulin in the other four studies. The 
remaining two studies were performed following a crossover design keeping each insulin for a three 
months duration. A summarised description of the main features of the therapeutic clinical studies is 
shown in table 1. 
Table 1: Main features of the therapeutic clinical trials 
STUDY 
CODE 
IOAA 
IOAB 
IOAC 
IOAD 
IOAE 
IOAF 
No. OF  
PATIENTS 
Randomisd  
Completed 
I-Lispro 
AGE /MEAN 
TYPE  
years 
OF  
(%Fem/Male) 
DIABETES 
BASAL  
INSULIN 
DURATION 
months 
(average) 
DURATION  
STUDY 
OF DIABETES 
DESIGN 
years 
(mean) 
167 
153 
81 
145 
141 
72 
169 
169 
81 
150 
139 
73 
98 
88 
50 
375 
317 
186 
30.7  
(52.6/47.4) 
56.5  
(48.7/51.32) 
33.7  
(48.3/51.7) 
55.5  
(50.6/49.4) 
24.4  
(38.8/61.2) 
59.06  
(43.8/56.2) 
Type I 
Humulin 
Zna 
12 
A 
12.8 
Type II 
Humulin 
Zna 
12 
A 
11.6 
Type I 
Humulin 
Ib 
12 
A 
11.8 
Type II 
Humulin 
Ib 
12 
A 
12.7 
Type I 
Type II 
New 
diabetic 
patientsc 
New 
diabetic 
patientsc 
12 
A 
0.18 
12 
A 
7.83 
4/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IOAG 
1008 
33.42  
Type I 
960d 
(41.9/58.12) 
IOAH 
722 
58.6  
Type II 
684d 
(45.4/54.1) 
Humulin 
Zna 
Humulin 
Ib 
Humulin 
Zna 
Humulin 
Ib 
6 
6 
B 
12.14 
B 
12.55 
a) Ultralente basal insulin 
b) NPH insulin 
c) Treated with insulin preparation for < 2 months 
d) Patients who completed both treatments periods 
A) Randomised parallel controlled open-label design 
B) Randomised cross-over open-label design 
All trials investigated the same primary variables (HbA1c, fasting glucose and post-prandial control at 
1 and 2 hr for blood glucose and glucose excursions), and numerous secondary variables (% patients 
with 2 hr post-prandial glucose less than 8 mmol/L, % patients with 2 hr post-prandial glucose within 
20% of fasting, % patients with a 50% decline from baseline in 2 hr post-prandial glucose, % patients 
with  at  least  one  of  the  above,  incidence  and  rate  of  hypoglycaemia,  total  and  basal  insulin  dose, 
weight and lipid levels). All of the studies were well conducted and followed Good Clinical Practice 
recommendations. 
The overall results of the pivotal studies are summarised in table 2.  
Table 2: Main therapeutic outcome of the clinical studies 
Variable values expressed as mean on therapy, in each box the value above refers with Insulin lispro 
and the one below with the corresponding for Humulin R 
HbA1c 
(%) 
Postprandial 
Glucose (mmol/L) 
Postprandial 
Excursions 
(mmol/L) 
1st hour 
2nd 
hour 
1st 
hour 
2nd 
hour 
Secondary Variables 
IOAA 
trend to 
lower 
levels 
lisproa 
IOAB 
nsdc 
IOAC 
nsdc 
1
1
1
1
1
1
2.63b 
3.53 
2.44b 
3.22b 
4.05 
3.52b 
11
13
11
12
13
12
.32ab 
.29 
.41b 
.69b 
.06 
.76 
not relevant 
1.50a 
0.07a 
3.25 
2.92 
2.07ab 
1.04ab 
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Ld 
3.01b 
2.49 
3.01 
3.63 
1.99 
2.75 
not relevant 
5/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IOAD 
nsdc 
IOAE 
nsdc 
IOAF 
nsdc 
IOAG 
nsdc 
IOAH 
nsdc 
3.72b 
3.75b 
2.73 
3.14 
3.28 
3.49 
2.91a 
3.89 
3.23a 
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
.32b 
.19b 
.44 
.39 
.31 
.95 
.16a 
.87 
.08a 
12
13
11
12
12
12
11
12
12
13
not relevant 
not relevant 
not relevant 
3.12 
1.74a 
3.39 
2.84 
2.59 
1.31 
3.53 
2.78 
3.37 
2.38 
3.38 
2.83 
1.24a 
0.51a 
-
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Le 
2.53 
1.52 
2.59a 
1.40a 
2 hour postprandial 
glucose ≤ 8 mmol/Lf 
3.89 
.14 
3.74 
2.97 
a  
b  
c  
d 
e 
f  
p < 0.05 insulin lispro compared with Humulin R 
p < 0.05 compared with baseline of each treatment 
nsd: no significant differences between groups 
33.3% for insulin lispro vs 13.9% Humulin (p <0.05) 
31.3% for insulin lispro vs 23.4% Humulin (p <0.05) 
19.6% for insulin lispro vs 12.1% Humulin (p <0.05) 
There  were  no  statistical  differences  in  all  studies  between  both  treatment  groups  on  the  indices  of 
diabetic control based on the HbA1C and the fasting glucose levels. Haemoglobin A1c at endpoint was 
significantly lower in one study (IOAA) for insulin lispro but the observed differences are too small 
and  less  than  the  differences  between  groups  at  baseline.  The  post-prandial  diabetic  control  was 
investigated by giving the usual standard breakfast after an overnight fast. In most studies the glucose 
levels were significantly lower on insulin lispro but this difference was not always significant. Both of 
the crossover studies (IOAG and IOAH) showed a significant advantage for insulin lispro in one and 
at  two  hours  glucose  levels and excursions. The long-term studies indicated that levels decreased  in 
the first month in both treatment arms but tended to increase again over the later part of the study. The 
glucose  excursions  at  one  hour  and  at  two  hours  were  lower  with  insulin  lispro  although  statistical 
differences were not achieved in 4/8 studies at one hour and in 2/8 studies for the 2-hour levels. The 
incidence  of  hypoglycaemias  was  similar  in  both  groups,  however  the  rate  of  hypoglycaemia  was 
lower in the insulin lispro groups, especially in the Type I patients. No effect on weight, lipid levels 
and dose of insulin were found. 
Although an attempt was made to quantify the impact on the quality of life the open-label design as 
well  as  the  complex  questionnaire  used  precluded  concise  conclusions.  The  results  obtained  from 
patient  preference  measurements  indicated  that  patients  preferred  to  remain  on  therapy  with  insulin 
lispro at the conclusion of studies IOAA and IOAH. 
Two  clinical  trials  (IOCF,  IOBJ)  were  performed  in  order  to  support  the  indication  Use  in  children 
below  12  years  of  age.  IOCF  study  involved  60  children  aged  2.9  to  11.4  years  in  which  three 
therapeutic strategies were compared (insulin lispro before meals, insulin lispro after meals, Humulin 
R before  meals): efficacy in controlling  glucose  profile in  prepubertal  children  with Type I  diabetes 
and  safety  were  monitored.  IOBJ  study  involved  463  adolescents  aged  9-18  years:  the  primary 
objective was to compare insulin lispro to Humulin R with respect to glucose excursion in adolescents 
6/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with Type I diabetes. Efficacy and safety data from these trials did not present any cause for concern 
and the approval for this indication has been granted. 
Insulin  lispro  has  been  granted  approval  for  occasional  postprandial  administration,  following 
evaluation of the data from two clinical trials: IODQ compared administration of insulin lispro 20, 0 
minutes before or 15 minutes after a meal with standard administration regimens of Humulin R (40 - 
20  -  0  minutes  before  a  meal);  IOCF  study  has  been  described  previously  (see  indication  for 
administration to children). 
Clinical safety 
The evaluation of the clinical safety entails 2247 patients who were exposed to the insulin lispro and 
2265 patients who received Humulin R. About 311 (13.6%) of the patients were treated with insulin 
lispro for one-year period and 961 (42.2%) were under treatment for 6 to 12 months. 
Five patients died under insulin lispro treatment and 7 under Humulin R. The majority of deaths were 
caused by myocardical infarction and cardiovascular related conditions (4 for insulin lispro and 3 for 
Humulin  R),  cancer  (2  for  Humulin  R  and  1  for  insulin  lispro),  hyperglycaemia  and  severe  ketosis 
(both for Humulin R). None of these deaths seemed to be related to the insulin type. 
The withdrawal rate from the studies was very low. Twenty patients on each treatment arm withdrew 
due to adverse events. Of them, 11 were unintended pregnancy and most of the remainder were due to 
intercurrent illness. One patient on Humulin R was withdrawn because of insulin allergy. 
There were 15 serious or unexpected events reported. Five on Humulin and 10 on insulin lispro. Many 
of these were cardiovascular events or hyperglycaemia, and were usually associated with infection.  
The most common adverse events were headache, pharyngitis, rhinitis, flu and infection. There were 
no  differences  between  both  treatment  groups.  Of  the  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  the 
hyperglycaemia appeared to be higher on insulin lispro ( 37 episodes) rather than on the Humulin R 
treatment (22 episodes). This adverse event occurred in the early stages of the study and it has been 
attributed to the shorter duration of the action of the insulin lispro. 
Adverse events in the elderly population had a higher incidence of urinary tract infections for Humulin 
R (5.8%) compared to insulin lispro (1.8 %). Hyperglycaemia was reported in 1.5% of patients in each 
group. 
The hypoglycaemic episodes were analysed in a comprehensive manner sorting out the symptomatic 
and asymptomatic (blood sugar below 3.5 mmol/L) in the same group. Eighteen serious hypoglycemic 
episodes  were  reported  (17  in  Type  I  patients).  Three  of  the  18  events  were  associated  with 
hypoglycemic comas and occurred in Type I patients treated with Humulin R. The rate (episodes/30 
days) of hypoglycaemia  was  significantly reduced  in Type I patients on insulin lispro.  Reduction  of 
hypoglycaemia in Type II patients receiving insulin lispro did not achieve statistical significance in all 
studies. 
Most patients were able to self-treat over 95% of the hypoglycaemic episodes. Less than 1% required 
glucagon or iv glucose administration and there were no difference between groups o when compared 
each group with the corresponding baseline period. No differences between groups were seen in those 
patients who reported coma (less than 1%). 
Additional information on safety using insulin lispro has been obtained from the open 1 year extension 
of the four parallel studies. This on-going study involves 272 patients and at the 4-months follow-up 
no differences in the pattern of the adverse events have been observed. Another similar study involves 
680 patients  who will  be  followed during 1-year extension after they completed the crossover trials. 
Data  at  4  months  are  available  and  there  are  no  differences  in  the  pattern  of  the  adverse  events 
reported. 
No  clinically  relevant  immunogenicity  has  been  found  on  the  intensive  monitoring  of  the  immune 
response in the clinical trials. Specific antibodies increased slightly in both groups from baseline but 
no differences were found between them. 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  first  PSUR,  although  no  increased  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  seemed 
associated to insulin lispro compared to other insulins, a driving warning and warning about the risks 
7/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of hypo- and hyperglicaemia are being included in the SPC and PIL in order to harmonise the product 
information with other centrally authorised insulins on the market. 
Mixes 
Four pharmacokinetic and three clinical studies are included in the application. The pharmacokinetic 
studies  have  established  the  time  course  of  activity  of  Humalog  NPL,  Mix  25  and  Mix50,  and  the 
clinical studies have demonstrated acceptable efficacy and safety. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Four pharmacokinetic studies are presented in the application: 
A  study  in  healthy  volunteers  comparing  single  injections  of  insulin  NPL  with  single  injections  of 
insulin  NPH,  two  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  comparing  the  effects  on  single  injections  of  five 
different  mixing ratios of insulin lispro and insulin  NPL and a two way cross-over study comparing 
insulin NPL with insulin NPH for overnight glucose control in patients with Type 1 diabetes. 
Pharmacokinetics of intermediate-acting formulation of insulin lispro 
In this non-blinded randomised, two-way crossover single dose comparison of insulin NPL (Humalog 
NPL  insulin)  with  insulin  NPH  (Humulin  N  insulin),  eight  healthy  volunteers,  aged  19-36  years, 
received a 0.4 U/kg dose of each insulin, separated by at least 7 days. Blood glucose was  measured 
approximately  every  5  minutes,  and  glucose  was  infused  to  maintain  constant  blood  glucose 
concentrations similar to fasting glucose levels for 15 hours while samples were collected for assay of 
insulin lispro/insulin. The volunteers remained fasting and resting in bed. 
Mean glucose infusion rate versus time curves showed a greater infusion rate was required for the first 
6  to  7  hours  after  injection  for  NPL  than  for  NPH.  After  7  hours  the  glucose  infusion  requirements 
were nearly identical. 
The peak concentrations and hypoglycaemic activities of the two intermediate acting insulins appeared 
similar, with a possible earlier peak of activity for insulin lispro. 
Pharmacokinetics of free mixtures of insulin lispro and insulin lispro protamine 
In  this  non-blinded  randomised  crossover  single  dose  comparison  of  extemporaneously  prepared 
mixtures  of  insulin  lispro  (Humalog)  and  NPL  (Humalog  NPL),  ten  healthy  volunteers,  aged  21-30 
years, received a 0.3 U/kg dose of one of the mixtures of insulinon occasions separated by at least 5 
days.  Blood  glucose  was  measured  approximately  every  5  minutes,  and  glucose  was  infused  to 
maintain constant blood glucose concentrations similar to fasting glucose levels for 20 hours, or until 
no  further  glucose  was  required  if  earlier,  while  samples  were  collected  for  assay  of  insulin 
lispro/insulin. The volunteers remained fasting and resting in bed. 
As  expected,  mean  glucose  infusion  rate  versus  time  curves  showed  a  greater  maximum  infusion 
ratewith increase in the proportion of insulin lispro. 
Maximum serum concentration rises with the proportion of insulin lispro in the mixture. 
Pharmacokinetics of insulin lispro premixtures: a comparison of insulin lispro, low mixture, mid 
mixture, high mixture and insulin lispro protamine suspension 
In this non-blinded randomised crossover single dose comparison of manufactured mixtures of insulin 
lispro (Humalog) and insulin NPL (Humalog NPL), 31 healthy volunteers, aged 22-33 years, received 
a  0.3  U/kg  dose  of  each  of  the  mixtures  of  insulin,  NPL  alone  and  insulin  lispro  alone  on  five 
occasions separated by at least 7 days. Blood glucose was measured approximately every 15 minutes, 
and glucose was infused to maintain constant blood glucose concentrations similar to fasting glucose 
levels for 22 hours, or for 10 hours for the unmixed insulin lispro, while samples were collected for 
assay of insulin lispro/insulin. The volunteers remained fasting and resting in bed. 
As expected, mean glucose infusion rate versus time curves showed a greater maximum infusion rate, 
with increase in the proportion of insulin lispro. 
Maximum serum concentration rises, with the proportion of insulin lispro in the mixture. 
8/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overnight  glycaemic  control  following  evening  administration  of  insulin  lispro  protamine 
suspension  (NPL):  Comparison  with  evening  administration  of  human  NPH  in  patients  with 
Type 1 diabetes 
In this randomised double-blind crossover comparison, 12 patients aged 19 to 48 years, whose Type 1 
diabetes  was  well  controlled  using  a  short-acting  insulin  before  meals  and  human  NPH  at  bedtime, 
used  insulin  lispro  as  their  pre-dinner  short-acting  insulin,  and  received  on  the  first  occasion  either 
insulin  NPL  or  insulin  NPH  at  2200  at  a  dose  previously  established  for  insulin  NPH.  Dextrose 
infusion was given as necessary to maintain the blood glucose level above 3.5 mmol/L. At 0900 hours 
a  single  dose  of  insulin  lispro  was  given  before  breakfast  and  monitoring  was  continued  until  1100 
hours.  On  the  second  occasion  each  patient  repeated  the  procedure  with  the  alternative  intermediate 
acting insulin. 
Curves  for  blood  glucose  infusion  rates,  blood  glucose  and  free  serum  insulin  levels  were  almost 
superimposable, suggesting that the absorption profiles of the two intermediate acting insulins are very 
similar and are equally effective as bedtime insulins. 
Efficacy 
Three clinical studies are presented in the application: 
• 
• 
• 
a randomised parallel study in adults, comparing glucose control using free  mixtures, between 
Humalog (insulin lispro) with Humalog NPL and Humulin N with Humulin R 
a  randomised  cross-over  study  in  adults,  comparing  glucose  control  using  fixed  mixtures  of 
Humalog Mix25 (25% lispro 75% NPL) and Humulin 20/80 
a randomised cross-over study in adults, comparing glucose  control between a Humalog fixed 
mixture (75% lispro, 25% NPL) and standard Humulin R 
Free mixtures of insulin lispro protamine suspension (NPL) and insulin lispro: comparison with 
free mixtures of Humulin N and Humulin R in a twice daily regimen in the treatment of diabetes 
This was a multicentre, multinational study. 166 patients, 112 male and 54 female, age 18 to 75 years, 
were randomised in the study. 102 had insulin-dependent diabetes and 64 had non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes; all were receiving insulin at the time of entry to the study. 
Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  twice  a  day  (before  the  first  and  evening  meals)  in  a  self-mix 
combination either insulin lispro and insulin NPL or human insulin and insulin NPH. Treatment with 
the  assigned  combination  continued  for  6  months.  The  investigator  adjusted  dosage.  Control  was 
assessed  by  haemoglobin  A1C  levels,  eight  point  blood  glucose  profiles  and  number  of 
hypoglycaemic episodes, compared with values for a baseline period prior to randomisation. 
After six months the two regimes appeared broadly similar, in terms of both dose and glucose control. 
Twice  daily  treatment  with  insulin  lispro  low  mixture:  a  comparison  with  premixed  human 
insulin 20/80 
This  was  a  multicentre,  multinational  cross-over  study.  127  patients,  59  male  and  68  female,  were 
randomised  in  the  study.  75  had  insulin-dependent  diabetes  and  52  had  non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes; all were receiving insulin at the time of entry to the study. 
Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  twice  a  day  (before  the  first  and  evening  meals)  in  premixed 
combination either 25% insulin lispro 75% insulin NPL (Humalog Mix25) given immediately before 
meals or 20% human insulin 80% insulin NPH (Humulin 20/80) given 30-45 minutes before the meal. 
Treatment with the assigned combination was to continue for 3 months, after which patients changed 
to  the  alternative  regime.  The  investigator  adjusted  dosage.  Control  was  assessed  by  haemoglobin 
A1C levels, eight point blood glucose profiles and number of hypoglycaemic episodes, compared with 
values for a baseline period prior to randomisation. 
The two regimes appeared broadly similar, in terms of both dose and glucose control. The clinical data 
and expert report support the clinical utility of this formulation. 
Insulin Lispro Mid Mixture and Insulin Lispro Low Mixture: Comparison with Human Insulin 50/50 
and Human Insulin 30/70 given twice daily in the treatment of diabetes 
9/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  was  an  open-label,  6  month  cross-over  study  comparing  morning  administration  of  Humalog 
Mix50  with  standard  Human  Insulin  50/50  ,  and  evening  administration  of  Humalog  Mix25  with 
Human Insulin 30/70. Two ratios were used in this study because a higher dose of soluble insulin is 
often  considered  necessary  before  breakfast  than  before  dinner.  Study  end  points  related  to  glucose 
control  as  judged  by  haemoglobin  A1C,  self-monitored  glucose  profiles,  and  frequency  of  self-
reported hypoglycaemia. 
A total of 100 patients aged 18 - 70 participated in the study. Of these, 37 were judged to have type 1 
diabetes mellitus and 63 type 2 diabetes. Each individual was treated for 3 months with each insulin. 
The two regimes appeared broadly similar, in terms of both dose and glucose control. The clinical data 
and expert report support the clinical utility of this formulation. 
Summary and conclusions on efficacy 
The requested indication is as follows: 
Humalog NPL  (Mix25,  Mix50) is indicated  for the treatment of  patients with  diabetes  mellitus  who 
require insulin for the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis.  
The clinical studies submitted support the requested indication for all formulations. 
Safety 
No  deaths  or  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  during  these  studies  in  healthy  volunteers.  One 
moderately severe episode of asthma occurred in a patient with a previous history of asthma. The other 
adverse  events  reported  were  those  to  be  expected  in  volunteer  studies  of  this  nature,  with  no 
imbalance  between  treatments.  In  the  clinical  studies,  one  death  was  reported  (suicide)  and  41 
randomised  patients  reported  at  least  1  serious  adverse  event.  There  were  no  unexpected  serious 
adverse events possibly related to the study drug 
Serious adverse events related to the treatment were: 
• 
• 
• 
accidental overdoses 
hospitalisations due to hyperglycaemia and 
hospitalisation due to hypoglycaemia 
These events are not uncommon in patients with diabetes using insulin. 
There  was  no  significant  difference  between  groups  concerning  incidence  and  characteristics  of 
hypoglycaemic episodes. Routine clinical laboratory tests showed no clinically significant differences 
between  the  groups.  Assessment  of  insulin  lispro  specific  human  insulin  specific  and  cross  reactive 
antibodies provided no grounds for concern. 
Conclusion 
Liprolog insulin lispro is an analog of human insulin. It is created when the amino acids at positions 
28  and  29  on  insulin’s  B  chain  are  reversed.  At  physiologic  concentrations  insulin  lispro  exists  in 
solution  as  a  monomer  which  allows  a  higher  rate  of  absorption  from  the  subcutaneous  sites  of 
injection in relation to regular human insulin. 
is  synthesised  in  a  special  non-disease-producing  laboratory  strain  of  Escherichia  coli 
Liprolog
bacteria that has been genetically modified and is subsequently transformed and purified in a series of 
steps  to  yield  zinc-insulin  lispro  crystals.  These  crystals  are  then  formulated  into  the  final  drug 
product. The potential for viral contamination due to material of biological origin and the removal of 
impurities during all main processing steps have been adequately assessed. 
The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin lispro on blood glucose control and on binding both insulin 
and IGF-1 receptors have been adequately assessed. No relevant findings have been observed during 
the toxicity studies after single dose and at 1 month and 12 months repeated administration. There was 
no  evidence  of  effects  on  the  fertility,  development-toxicity  and  teratogenicity in  the  animal  species 
studied. As the result of the mutagenic potential assessed through several series of tests was uniformly 
negative,  and  no  proliferative  effect  has  been  observed,  there  was  no  need  to  conduct  conventional 
carcinogenicity data. 
10/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the overall clinical data submitted, the insulin lispro appears to display efficacy and safety 
profiles  comparable  to  those  of  existing  human  insulin.  Most  studies  demonstrate  reduced  post-
prandial  glucose  elevations,  despite  an  insulin  lispro  injection  time  just  before  meals.  Two  large 
studies  with  diabetic  patients  demonstrate  a  reduced  rate  of  hypoglycaemia  in  insulin  lispro  treated 
patients, without worsening of metabolic control (HbA1c). 
Summary and conclusions on clinical safety (Mixes):  
Adequate clinical data have been provided in order to demonstrate the safety of Liprolog Mix25 and 
Liprolog Mix50 for the approved indication. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Liprolog  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  adults  and  children  with 
diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis and for the 
initial stabilisation of diabetes mellitus. 
11/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
