SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Litak. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1 
Introduction 
LITAK  contains  the  active  substance  cladribine  (2-chloro-2’-deoxy-(cid:31)-D-adenosine  or  2-chloro-6-
amino-9-(2-deoxy-(cid:31)-D-erythropento-furanosyl)-purine),  a  chlorinated  purine  nucleoside  analogue. 
The applicant sought a marketing authorisation for the first-line treatment of hairy cell leukaemia. The 
CPMP considered the benefit risk profile positive for cladribine for the first line treatment of hairy cell 
leukaemia. The scientific discussion in this report focuses on this indication. 
Hairy cell leukaemia 
Hairy cell leukaemia (HCL) is a neoplasm of small B lymphoid cells with oval nuclei and abundant 
cytoplasm  with  “hairy”  projections  in  bone  marrow  and  peripheral  blood,  diffusely  infiltrating  bone 
marrow  and  splenic  red  pulp  and  strongly  expressing  CD103,  CD22  and  CD11c.  HCL  is  a 
disseminated  disease,  which  often  is  minimally  symptomatic  at  presentation.  Most  patients  present 
with splenomegaly and pancytopenia and may have few circulating neoplastic cells. At diagnosis more 
thrombocytopenia,  75%  have  anaemia,  about  half  have  granulocytopenia 
than  80%  have 
(accompanied by frequent pyrogenic infections) and 80% have splenomegaly. Incidence of HCL in the 
Western world is estimated to be about 4-5 new cases per million per year (Bernstein, Newton et al. 
1990; Au, Klasa et al. 1998; Kristinsson, Vidarsson et al. 2002). Patients are predominantly middle-
aged to elderly adults with a median age of 55 years and a male predominance. The diagnosis relies 
upon  the  demonstration  of  the  neoplastic  hairy  cells  in  blood  or  marrow.  Monocytopenia  is 
characteristic. Other distinctive manifestations include recurrent opportunistic infections, vasculitis or 
other  immune  dysfunction.  Immediate  therapy  is  indicated  in  85%  of  the  patients.  Interferon-alpha 
in  a  minority. 
induces  partial  responses 
2’deoxycoformycin and cladribine induce long-lasting complete remissions in the majority of patients 
with  HCL.  Cladribine  has  demonstrated  a  high  efficacy  with  tolerable  toxicity  and  is  now  the 
preferred  agent  for  first  line  treatment  of  HCL.  There  exists  a  variant  type,  which  has  a  poorer 
response to treatments effective in typical HCL. Prolonged remissions  may also follow splenectomy 
(Jaffe, Harris et al., 2001). 
in  most  patients  but  complete  responses  only 
Cladribine  
Cladribine (2-CdA) is an antimetabolite belonging to the purine nucleoside analogues. It is chemically 
derived from deoxyadenosine, where the hydrogen atom in the 2-position of the purine ring has been 
replaced  by  a  chlorine  atom.  This  substitution  renders  the  molecule  resistant  to  the  deamination  by 
adenosine  deaminase.  Intracellularly  cladribine  is  phosphorylated  by  deoxycytidine  kinase  (which  is 
present  in  a  high  concentration  particularly  in  normal  and  malignant  lymphoid  cells).  Because  the 
lymphoid  cells  also  have  a  low  content  of  5’-nucleotidase,  there  is  accumulation  of  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine-5’-triphosphate  (CdATP).  CdATP  is  incorporated  into  DNA  strands,  thereby 
blocking DNA chain elongation and inhibiting DNA repair and it will inhibit ribonucleotide reductase. 
Cell death then occurs from energy depletion and apoptosis.  
Cladribine  was  originally  developed  by  the  Scripps  Research  Institute  in  the  U.  S.  A.  in  the  1970s 
(Beutler, McMillan et al. 1997). Cladribine was first used in humans in 1981 (Carson, Wasson et al. 
1982,  Carson,  Wasson  et  al.  1984).  The  first  published  experience  reporting  on  9  patients  with 
intractable  haematological  malignancies  treated  in  the  U.S.A.  in  a  phase  I  trial  appeared  in  1984 
(Carson,  Wasson  et  al.  1984).  The  first  communication  on  two  HCL  patients  treated  with  2-CdA 
appeared  in  1987  (Piro  1987).  The  outstanding  activity  of  cladribine  against  HCL  was  thereafter 
confirmed and documented through a series of publications in 1990-1992 based on patients treated in 
the U.S.A. and Sweden (Piro, Carrera et al. 1990; Juliusson and Liliemark 1992). By February 1992, 
positive results from a larger confirmatory phase II trial with pre-treated and previously untreated HCL 
patients  became  available  (Estey,  Kurzrock  et  al.  1992).  Large  published  series  with  more  than  200 
HCL  patients  had  also  become  available  from  Switzerland,  further  confirming  the  efficacy  of 
cladribine  in  HCL  (Betticher,  Fey  et  al.  1992).  Although  long-term  results  were  still  lacking,  these 
reports established cladribine as a standard treatment in patients with HCL. More recently, reports with 
1/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
long follow-up have confirmed the efficacy of cladribine in the treatment of patients with HCL, with 
long-lasting complete remissions observed in most patients (Tallman, Hakimian et al. 1996; Hoffman, 
Janson et al. 1997; Cheson, Sorensen et al. 1998;  Saven,  Burian et al. 1998; Dearden, Matutes et al. 
1999; Jehn, Bartl et al. 1999; Robak, Blasinska-Morawiec et al. 1999; Zinzani, Magagnoli et al. 2000; 
Goodman, Burian et al. 2003). 
In Europe, cladribine for intravenous infusion was first approved in Sweden in November 1993 for the 
treatment of HCL. At the time of submission of the application, cladribine for intravenous infusion had 
been approved in all Member States of the Community except Ireland. In Austria, Finland, Portugal, 
Spain  and  the  United  Kingdom,  the  approved  therapeutic  indication  also  includes  certain  other 
lymphoid  malignancies.  Prior  to  commercial  availability  of  cladribine  in  the  Community,  access  to 
cladribine  was  only  possible  through  clinical  trials  or  compassionate  use  programmes.  During  the 
period of 1990 to 1993 cladribine products were received either through the U.S.A. National Cancer 
Institute (Cheson, Vena et al. 1991), or produced (mainly locally) in France (Bastie, Cazals-Hatem et 
al. 1999), Belgium (Delannoy, Ferrant et al. 1994), the United Kingdom (Hickish, Serafinowski et al. 
1993), Switzerland (Betticher, Fey et al. 1992) or Poland (Robak, Blasinska-Morawiec et al. 1999).  
With  regard  to  clinical  studies  with  cladribine,  150  articles  have  been  published  in  clinical  journals 
covering about 7,000 patients. Some of the largest published series of patients treated with cladribine 
have  come  from  Scandinavia.  In  Sweden  patients  with  various  haematological  malignancies  were 
systematically  treated  with  cladribine  since  March  1990  (Juliusson,  Elmhorn-Rosenborg  et  al.  1992; 
Juliusson  and  Liliemark  1993).  These  series  also  included  HCL  patients  from  Sweden,  Norway, 
Denmark and Finland (Juliusson, Heldal et al. 1995). Additional patients were recruited from Belgium, 
Switzerland and Germany (Juliusson and Liliemark 1992; Juliusson, Lenkei et al. 1995), with over 100 
HCL patients treated by 1993. Other early series describing use of cladribine in the early 1990’s have 
come  from  Germany  (Jehn,  Gawaz  et  al.  1993),  Belgium  (Filleul,  Delannoy  et  al.  1994;  Van  Den 
Neste, Delannoy et al. 1996), Austria (Konwalinka, Schirmer et al. 1995), Italy (di Celle, Reato et al. 
1994;  Lauria,  Benfenati  et  al.  1994;  Lauria,  Rondelli  et  al.  1997;  Zinzani,  Magagnoli  et  al.  2000), 
France  (Meunier,  Castaigne  et  al.  1996;  Legrand,  Vekhoff  et  al.  1997;  Bastie,  Cazals-Hatem  et  al. 
1999),  and  the  United  Kingdom  (Hickish,  Serafinowski  et  al.  1993).  Detailed  information  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  2-CdA  became  available  in  1991  (Liliemark  and  Juliusson  1991).  By  1992,  the 
studies  conducted  in  Sweden  established  the  viability  of  the  subcutaneous  and  the  oral  route 
(Liliemark, Albertioni et al. 1992).  
Development of LITAK 
The  development  of  LITAK  was  initiated  in  the  early  1990’s  by  the  University  Hospital  of  Berne, 
Switzerland in collaboration with the Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK). The aim of 
was to provide a more convenient schedule in terms of route of administration (subcutaneous instead of 
intravenous)  and  duration  of  treatment  compared  to  the  existing  schedules  of  intravenous  cladribine. 
The dosage regimen for subcutaneous administration of LITAK of 0.14 mg/kg body weight/day given 
on  5  consecutive  days  (total  dosage  per  cycle  0.7  mg/kg)  was  chosen  in  order  to  achieve  a  similar 
exposure as that following 7-days administration by intravenous route administered at a dose of 0.09 
mg/kg/day. A subcutaneous treatment daily for 5 days is expected to allow out-patient treatment and 
thus  to  be  more  convenient  both  for  patients  and  the  treating  team.  To  enable  subcutaneous 
administration, LITAK is provided as a higher concentrated solution of cladribine as compared to the 
cladribine product currently approved in the European Union. LITAK subcutaneous injection has been 
granted orphan medicinal product designation by the European Commission. 
The applicant has submitted the results of non-clinical and clinical studies carried out by the applicant, 
and  bibliographic  references.  The  relevance  of  studies  conducted  using  cladribine  from  different 
sources  has  been  addressed  (see  Discussion  on  the  non-clinical  aspects,  and  Discussion  on  clinical 
pharmacology,  biopharmaceutical  studies).  Where  the  results  of  certain  studies  were  lacking  and/or 
only published data were provided, the applicant has provided adequate justifications, showing that all 
relevant  requirements  as  set  out  in  the  Annex  I  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  are  fulfilled, 
which  have  been  assessed  (see  Non-clinical  aspects,  Discussion  on  the  non-clinical  aspects,  and 
Clinical aspects, Discussion on clinical pharmacology, biopharmaceutical studies, and Discussion on 
clinical efficacy).  
2/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
2 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
LITAK  contains  cladribine  as  active  substance.  The  product  is  presented  as  a  2  mg/ml  solution  for 
injection,  for  subcutaneous  use.  Other  ingredients  include  water  for  injections  as  a  solvent,  sodium 
chloride  for  the  adjustment  of  osmolarity  and  sodium  hydroxide  and  hydrochloric  acid  for  the 
adjustment  of  pH.  LITAK  is  filled  into  colourless  type  I  glass  vials,  closed  with  teflonised  rubber 
stoppers and crimped with aluminium caps. 
Active substance 
Cladribine  is  a  synthetic  analogue  of  the  purine  nucleoside,  adenosine.  Its  chemical  name  is  
2-chloro-6-amino-9-(2’-deoxy-β-D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-purine or 2-chloro-2’-deoxy-adenosine. It 
is  a  colourless,  odourless,  crystalline  powder  soluble  in  distilled  water  and  contains  three  chiral 
centres.  
The active substance is synthesised via a six-step route, starting from natural 2-deoxy-D-ribose, 2,6-
dichloropurine. The critical step in the manufacture of the drug substance has been identified to be the 
introduction  of  dichloropurine  in  the  fourth  step  of  the  synthesis.  For  this  reason  the  resulting  key 
intermediate  (Intermediate  5)  is  tightly  controlled  and  a  release  specification  has  been  set  for  its 
appearance, optical rotation and purity, thus eliminating the presence of cladribine’s potential isomers. 
Among the other impurities that may arise from the starting materials or the synthetic route only five 
have been detected in the eight batches of the active substance presented. 
Active substance specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for the appearance, solubility, identification (IR, UV), 
assay  (HPLC),  impurities,  optical  rotation,  water  content,  total  microbial  count  and  bacterial 
endotoxins.  The  analytical  methods  used  in  the  routine  controls  have  been  suitably  described  and 
validated,  while  the  impurity  limits  are  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines  and  have  been 
adequately justified.  
Batch analysis data have been provided for four batches of the active substance and the results indicate 
that the product consistently meets the set specification. 
Stability 
Samples from three batches manufactured according to the proposed manufacturing process have been 
placed under stability study at the following conditions:  4ºC, 25ºC, 40ºC and 50ºC. The duration of 
the studies was 36 months at all temperatures. The parameters tested were appearance, assay, purity 
and levels of impurities, while the test methods employed were those used for batch release.   
The storage conditions used were not in strict accordance with ICH guidelines. However, the results 
indicate  that  the  drug  substance  is  very  stable  and  it  is  unlikely  to  be  adversely  affected  by  the 
divergence from ICH conditions. Therefore, the proposed re-test period and storage conditions can be 
accepted. In addition, the applicant has committed to carry out stability studies with commercial scale 
batches, stored under the ICH recommended conditions, in the packaging proposed for marketing, to 
confirm the non-ICH results.  
Other ingredients 
All  excipients  are  commonly  used  in  the  preparation  of  injectables.  They  are  tested  to,  and  comply 
with,  Ph.Eur.  requirements.  Since  the  product  is  intended  for  single  dose  use  no  preservatives  are 
included in the formulation. 
The  solution  for  injection  is  filled  in  Type  I  glass  vials  with  bromobutyl  rubber  stoppers.  Both 
materials  are  widely  used  in  pharmaceutical  products  and  fulfil  PhEur.  requirements.  The  stability 
studies  performed  confirmed  that  there  is  no  incompatibility  between  the  product  and  its  immediate 
packaging. 
3/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Product development and finished product 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  the  production  of  a  ready-to-use  solution  for 
subcutaneous use. The solubility of cladribine in water is 5 mg/ml, therefore the concentration selected 
for  the  product  is  within  this  limit,  and  water  for  injections  is  a  suitable  solvent  vehicle.  Sodium 
chloride is used to achieve isotonicity and the pH is adjusted to 7.4-7.5, because the drug substance is 
rapidly cleaved at the glycosidic bond at acidic pH values. 
The qualitative and quantitative composition of the formulation has remained constant since the initial 
development  with  only some  minor changes in the  manufacturing process.  Different container types 
have  also  been  used  during  development,  initially  ampoules  and  then  stoppered  vials,  but  the  glass 
type used and stoppers materials were identical to those for the proposed container system.  
The  key  issue  in  the  manufacture  of  the  product  is  the  method  of  sterilisation.  Terminal  heat 
sterilisation was precluded, since there is the potential for hydrolytic cleavage of the drug substance, 
and a combination of sterile filtration and aseptic preparation was therefore employed. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  process  for  the  preparation  of  solutions  for  injections  and 
consists of the following steps: preparation of the cladribine solution, sterile filtration, aseptic filling 
and  closure  of  the  vials.  The  process  has  been  described  in  sufficient  detail  and  is  controlled  by 
appropriate in process controls, which monitor among others the bioburden and the pH of the solution, 
the filter integrity before and after the solution filtration as well as before and after the filling of the 
vials. 
Product specification 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  pH,  identification  of  the  active  and  the 
solvent,  purity  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  extractable  volume  (Ph.Eur.),  sterility 
(Ph.Eur.), particulate contamination (Ph.Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur.). 
Batch analysis data from three pilot scale and one commercial scale batches have been presented. All 
batches  met  the  proposed  specification  and  indicate  consistent  and  reproducible  manufacture  of  the 
product to the required quality. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data have been provided for one commercial and three pilot batches. The pilot scale batches 
were  stored,  for  up  to  48  months,  at  4ºC,  25ºC,  40ºC  and  50ºC.  The  testing  parameters  were 
appearance, pH, assay and purity. The analytical methods used were the same as for batch release.  
The  samples  from  the  production  scale  batch  have  been  stored  for  up  to  24  months,  under  the 
following conditions that are in accordance with ICH recommendations: 4±2ºC, 25±2ºC, 60±5% RH, 
30±2ºC, 60±5% RH, 40±2ºC and 75±5% RH.  
The summary of the results indicates that no change was observed in the quality of the product at 4ºC 
and  25ºC.  Above  30ºC  degradation  of  the  active  ingredient  was  noted,  but  even  at  40ºC  the 
specifications were met up to and including 18 months. 
The sterility of the pilot batches stored at 4ºC was reassessed after four years storage and showed no 
microbiological contamination.  
In summary the stability data support the product shelf life as stated in the SPC under the approved 
conditions.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  LITAK  has  been  adequately  established.  The  active  substance  is  stable;  it  is  well 
characterised and documented. The excipients and the packaging material are commonly used in this 
kind of formulation and are well documented. The manufacturing process of the finished product has 
been  adequately  described.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
However at the time of the CPMP opinion a number of minor quality issues were unresolved, which 
the applicant gave a commitment to resolve, as follow-up measures. 
4/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
di- 
mono-, 
Cladribine  (2-chloro-2’-deoxyadenosine)  is  a  prodrug  that  is  phosphorylated  intracellularly  via 
deoxycytidine  kinase  (dCK).  Unlike  its  non-chlorinated  analogue  2’-deoxyadenosine,  it  cannot  be 
deaminated by adenosine deaminase (Carson,  Wasson et al., 1980). Phosphorylation of cladribine to 
its 
triphosphate  
and 
(2-chlorodeoxyadenosine-5’-triphosphate, 2-CdATP), results in accumulation of the active nucleotide 
(2-CdATP), particularly in cells with high dCK activity and a low level of deoxynucleotidases. These 
latter  features  are  characteristic  of  lymphoid  cells  and  various  malignant  cells  derived  from  the 
haematopoietic system. Incorporation  of CdATP into DNA of  proliferating cells and the consequent 
blockage  of  DNA  synthesis  and  inhibition  of  DNA  repair  results  in  cell  death.  Cladribine  is  also 
cytotoxic  in  resting  cells  (Carson,  Wasson  et  al.,  1983),  through  induction  of  apoptosis,  and 
consequently  may  be  effective  in  indolent  diseases  that  do  not  respond  adequately  to  conventional 
chemotherapy.  
subsequently 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
The  applicant  presented  a  review  of  the  pharmacodynamics  of  cladribine  investigated  in  vitro 
(Wataya,  Hirota  et  al.  1989;  Nagourney,  Evans  et  al.  1993;  Fridborg,  Nygren  et  al.  1995;  Carson, 
Wasson et al. 1983; Huang, Ashmun et al. 1986; Avery, Rehg et al. 1989; Mohammad, Katato et al. 
1998; Cory, Nelson et al. 1997; Hentosh, Tibudan et al. 1997; Carrera, Yamanaka et al. 1989; Petzer, 
Bilgeri et al. 1991; Piga, Ganeshaguru et al. 1989; Depenbrock, Wenger et al. 1995; Hutton and von 
Hoff  1986;  Robak  and  Korycka  1996;  Ballarino,  Castello  et  al.  1996;  Begleiter,  Wang  et  al.  1996; 
Barbieri,  Abbracchio  et  al.  1998;  Barbieri,  Franceschi  et  al.  1998;  Yuh,  Tibudan  et  al.  1998;  Leoni, 
Chao  et  al.  1998;  Wyczechowska,  Ruckemann  et  al.  1999;  Genini,  Adachi  et  al  2000;  Genini, 
Budihardjo  et  al.  2000;  Nomura,  Inanami  et  al.  2000;  Godlewski,  Motyl  et  al.  2001)  and  in  vivo 
(Carson,  Wasson  et  al.  1980;  Mohammad,  Katato  et  al.  1998;  Huang,  Ashmun  et  al.  1986;  Schmid, 
Oberhuber et al. 1994; Nawrocki, Grieb et al. 1996; Schmid, Hechenleitner et al. 1998; Ryba, Grieb et 
al. 1993).  
Studies in vitro 
The  cytotoxicity  of  a  number  of  anticancer  drugs,  including  cladribine,  was  investigated  in  primary 
cultures of normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), or tumour cells from patients 
with acute or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (ALL or CLL). Cladribine showed good potency in these 
cells,  with  IC50’s  in  PBMC,  ALL  and  CLL  being  0.016  µg/ml,  0.30  µg/ml  and  0.75  µg/ml, 
respectively (Fridborg, Nygren et al. 1995).  
The inhibitory effects of cladribine on the growth of human haematopoietic (T-, B-, non T- and non B-
lymphoblastic) cell lines, and the protective effect of the nucleoside transport inhibitors dipyridamole 
and NBTI were reported. All cell lines were protected to some extent (1.7 - 16-fold) by dipyridamole 
and NBTI (Avery, Rehg et al. 1989). 
Bryostatin induces differentiation of CLL in vitro to a hairy cell stage.  The effects of cladribine in this 
type of model were investigated using an EBV-negative CLL line (WSU-CLL) from a patient resistant 
to  chemotherapy  including  fludarabine,  which  was  exposed  to  bryostatin  (100  nM)  for  72  hours. 
Subsequent  treatment  with  cladribine  (11.2  µM)  resulted  in  complete  growth  inhibition,  which  was 
greater  than  with  either  agent  used  alone.  Growth  inhibition  was  dose-dependent,  with  5.6  and  11.2 
µM cladribine showing 21.3 and 57% inhibition, respectively, on day 4; 16.8 and 22.4 µM were toxic 
(Mohammad, Katato et al., 1998).   
The  potency  of  cladribine  was  compared  with  that  of  cytosine  arabinoside,  6-thioguanine,  5-
fluorouracil  and  hydroxyurea in  a number of  human  cell lines  (leukaemia  and  lymphoma cells from 
patients, normal bone marrow cells and normal peripheral blood cells). The ratio of the ID50 in normal 
human peripheral blood lymphocytes to that in a T-lymphoblastoid cell line was calculated for each of 
the compounds. The ratio  for cladribine was 1, whilst each of the other compounds had a ratio of > 
500.  Cladribine  was  therefore  equipotent  in  resting  and  proliferating  cells  (Carson,  Wasson  et  al. 
1983). 
5/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
CLL  cells  and  normal  peripheral  blood  lymphocytes  express  both  caspase-3  and  apoptotic  protease 
activating factor 1 (Apaf-1). Incubation of lymphocytes with cladribine induced caspase-3 activation 
prior  to  the  degradation  of  DNA  and  cell  death.  Stimulation  of  the  caspase  proteolytic  cascade  by 
CdATP  may help explain the effects of cladribine on non-dividing lymphocytes (Leoni, Chao et al., 
1998).  
The  induction of apoptosis in quiescent human PBMC by cladribine and 2-chloro-adenosine  (2-CA) 
were investigated in vitro. It appeared that at least three pathways may be involved, and that the two 
compounds  did  not  share  the  same  pathways  (Barbieri,  Abbracchio  et  al,  1998).    In  a  subsequent 
study, the effect of altering the structure of these compounds on their apoptotic effect in PBMC was 
investigated.  Structural  alterations  abolished  the  effect  of  2-CA,  and  significantly  decreased  that  of 
cladribine (Barbieri, Franceschi 1998).  
The analysis of the effect of cladribine on cell cycle kinetics showed an accumulation of cells in the S 
phase,  the  accumulation  becoming  more  marked  with  longer  periods  of  exposure  and  with  higher 
concentrations (Huang, Ashmun et al., 1986). 
Studies in vivo 
The  activity  of  cladribine  against  L1210  murine  leukaemia  in  vivo  was  reported  following 
intraperitoneal  (i.p.)  injections  at  various  concentrations,  either  once  a  day  for  6  or  2  days  or  at  3 
hourly intervals on day 1, 5, 9. The surviving mice were observed for 60 days. There was an increase 
in  the  life  span  of  the  treated  mice.  At  concentrations  of  4,  6  and  9  mg/kg/injection,  the  median 
increase  in  life-span  was  25,  50  and  75%,  respectively.  The  maximal  tolerated  dose  (50 
mg/kg/injection)  given  daily  for  6  days  produced  an  80%  increase  in  life  span,  corresponding  to  a 
reduction by 1 order of magnitude in tumour cell burden by the end of treatment (Carson, Wasson et 
al., 1980). 
The  effects  of  cladribine  on  the  survival  of  mice  inoculated  with  L1210  leukaemia  cells  have  been 
described in another published study. Cladribine administered i.p. at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day for 7 
days prolonged survival in a dose-dependent manner, to a maximum of over 100% (Huang, Ashmun et 
al., 1986).  
In a xenograft model of CLL in WSU-CLL-bearing mice, the maximum tolerated doses of cladribine 
and  bryostatin  (30  mg/kg  s.c  and.  75  mg/kg  i.p.,  respectively)  were  given  either  alone  or  in 
combination. The survival, tumour growth inhibition ratio, tumour growth delay and log10 kill of the 
mice  treated  with  bryostatin  followed  by  cladribine  were  significantly  better  than  in  the  control  and 
other scheduled groups (Mohammad, Katato et al., 1998).   
Immunosuppressive activity was investigated in a rat experimental small bowel transplantation model. 
Cladribine itself did not appear to have immunosuppressive properties, but was highly effective when 
combined with cyclosporin A, preventing rejection in 4/5 animals (Schmid, Oberhuber et al., 1994).   
A similar finding was noted following cardiac allograft in rats, where cladribine alone did not prolong 
mean  survival time (7  days)  of control  grafts without immunosuppression,  but  when combined with 
cyclosporin A, prolonged graft survival for up to 20 days (Nawrocki, Grieb et al., 1996).   
The  synergistic 
immunosuppressive  properties  of  cladribine  and  cyclosporin  A  were  also 
demonstrated following liver or heart transplant in an allogeneic rat model. Cladribine alone (i.v. 0.1 
mg/kg/day)  had  no  effect,  but  when  combined  with  cyclosporin  A  (p.o.  10  mg/kg/day),  80%  of  the 
liver  grafts  and  60%  of  the  heart  grafts  were  not  rejected  (Schmid  et  al.,  1998).  In  rabbits  with 
experimental  sub-arachnoid  haemorrhage,  cladribine  (0.3  mg/kg/day  s.c.  for  5  days)  had  similar 
immunosuppressive  effects  as  cyclosporin  A  in  preventing  cerebrovascular  changes  (Ryba,  Grieb  et 
al., 1993).   
Secondary pharmacodynamics and safety pharmacology 
Specific secondary pharmacodynamic or safety pharmacology studies have not been submitted. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  specific  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  with  LITAK.  Cross-
reactions  with  other  antineoplastic  agents  in  vitro  (e.g.  doxorubicin,  vincristine,  cytarabine, 
cyclophosphamide)  and  in  vivo  have  not  been  observed.  However,  an  in  vitro  study  revealed  cross-
6/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
resistance between cladribine and nitrogen mustard (chlormethine) (Nagourney, Evans et al. 1993). In 
one  ex  vivo  study  with  patients  with  acute  myelogenous  leukaemia,  a  synergistic  model  of  drug 
interaction  between  cladribine  and  cytarabine  was  observed  (Gandhi,  Estey  et  al.,  1996).  Cladribine 
showed  a  synergistic  effect  with  chlorambucil  in  chronic  lymphocytic  leukemia  (CLL)  in  vitro. 
Treatment  with  chlorambucil  for  6  h  followed  by  cladribine  for  18  h  produced  a  2.3  to  7.5-fold 
synergistic cytotoxic effect (Begleiter, Wang et al., 1996).   
The effects of cladribine were studied in vitro in combination with interferon-α or interferon-γ on the 
clonal  growth  of  granulocyte-macrophage  progenitor  cells  (CFU-GM)  from  normal  volunteers  and 
patients  with  chronic  myeloid  leukaemia  (CML)  and  clonogenic  blasts  (CFU-L)  from  patients  with 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Cladribine and interferon-α showed the  greatest additive effect on 
the growth of CFU-L blasts at concentrations of 80 nmol/l and 104 U/ml, respectively. Similar results 
were reported on the effect on  myeloid  progenitors (CFU-GM) in vitro of cladribine combined with 
interferon-α with and without addition of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and/or granulocyte macrophage colony 
stimulating factor (GM-CSF).  Cladribine dose-dependently inhibited CFU-GM growth. At the lower 
doses  of  cladribine  (15.6  nmol/l  to  62.5  nmol/l),  combination  with  interferon-α  had  a  synergistic 
inhibitory  effect,  whereas  at  the  higher  doses  (up  to  1  µmol/l)  there  was  no  synergistic  effect.  The 
addition  of  IL-1  and/or  GM-CSF  had  no  effect  on  the  inhibitory  effect  of  cladribine  (Robak  and 
Korycka, 1996).   
Pharmacokinetics 
The applicant submitted a review of the pharmacokinetics of cladribine investigated in pre-clinical and 
clinical studies (Liliemark and Juliusson 1991; Liliemark, Albertioni et al. 1992; Betticher, Fey et al. 
1993;  Liliemark  and  Juliusson  1994;  Albertoni,  Hassan  et  al.  1995;  Liliemark  and  Juliusson  1995; 
Reichelova,  Juliusson  et  al.  1995;  Sonderegger,  Betticher  et  al.  1996;  Betticher,  Hsu  Schmitz  et  al. 
1997; Sonderegger 1998; Sonderegger, Betticher et al. 2000).  
Absorption  
Absorption  of  cladribine  has  not  been  well  studied  in  animals.  A  single-dose  study  using  rat  liver 
perfused  for  3.5  h  has  been  described.  Comparative  pharmacokinetics  in  mouse  and  man  following 
subcutaneous administration have been reported. This latter study was conducted because significant 
differences  had  been  observed  in  toxicity  between  mouse  and  man  in  Phase  I  studies  (Albertioni, 
Hassan et al. 1995).   
One  study  reported  the  pharmacokinetics  in  mice  and  humans  following  s.c.  administration 
(Reichelova,  Juliusson  et  al.  1995).  Cladribine  was  administered  s.c.  to  female  NMRI  mice  at 
approximately one half of LD10 (135 mg/m3). Results were compared with a study in humans treated at 
the MTD (4.8 mg/m2) (Liliemark, Albertioni et al. 1992). The plasma concentration/time curve could 
be  fitted  to  a  2-compartment  model  in  both  species,  but  the  slopes  were  much  steeper  in  mice.  The 
half-lives  of  drug  disposition  and  elimination  in  mice  were  11.4  and  150  minutes,  respectively.  The 
corresponding values in man were much longer, at 1.47 and 13.3 hours. The tmax was similar (15 mins 
in mouse, 20 mins in man), but a much higher Cmax occurred in mice. The ratio of the LD10 dose in 
mice to the MTD in humans was 50, and the area under the curve determined in mice at approximately 
one-half of the LD10 was about 49 times higher than the AUC found in patients at the MTD (Table 1).   
7/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table 1.   Pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  mice  (Reichelova,  Juliusson  et  al.,  1995)  in 
comparison  to  those  in  human  (Liliemark,  Albertioni  et  al.,  1992)  following  a  s.c. 
dose of 0.14 mg/kg of cladribine 
t1/2α (h) 
t1/2β (h) 
Peak concentration (µM) 
Time of peak concentration (h) 
CL (1h-1 m2) 
AUC (µM × h) 
Mice 
(mean of n=3) 
0.19 
2.50 
54.80 
0.25 
14.40 
32.80 
Humans 
(mean of n=10) 
1.47 
13.3 
0.32 
0.34 
25.9 
0.80 
Distribution 
Plasma  protein  binding  of  cladribine  was  studied  in  vitro  using  solutions  of  human  serum  albumin 
(HSA,  40  g/l)  or  α1-acid-glycoprotein  (0.7  g/l),  or  in  vivo  in  blood  from  patients  treated  with 
cladribine,  or  in  blood  from  volunteers  spiked  with  cladribine  (25  to  1000  nmol/l).  In  the  HSA 
solution, 24.3% was bound, but < 5% was bound in the α1-acid-glycoprotein solution. In patients, 25% 
was bound, and in volunteers, 21.1%, although there was a wide range (5.6 to 50.8% in patients and 
9.7  to  32.7%  in  volunteers).  Binding  did  not  appear  to  be  concentration-dependent  (Albertioni, 
Herngren  et  al.  1994).  Plasma  protein  binding  of  cladribine  in  mouse  plasma  was  only  about  6%  to 
10% at concentrations of 0.5 to 50 µM (Reichelova, Juliusson et al. 1995).  
Metabolism and excretion 
The metabolism of cladribine (2, 20 or 200 µg/ml) in perfused rat liver was investigated. The major 
metabolite, 2-chloroadenine, increased proportionally with dose and time. There was a 50% first pass 
effect. Less than 1% of the dose was recovered intact in the bile, and less than 1% was recovered as 2-
chloradenine. Elimination half-life was concentration-dependent (Albertioni, Hassan et al. 1995).   
Toxicology 
The  applicant  submitted  the  results  of  studies  investigating  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  of 
cladribine using the intraperitoneal route in mice and monkeys (Carson, 2002).  
Single dose toxicity 
Female CDF 1 mice were administered single i.p. doses of a 0.1% solution of cladribine and observed 
for  30  days.  There  was  no  mortality  up  to  90  mg/kg.  The  LD50  was  150  mg/kg  and  the  LD90,  180 
mg/kg. No other parameters were evaluated in this study (Carson 2002).  
Repeat-dose toxicity 
Female CDF 1 mice were administered i.p. doses of a 0.1% solution of cladribine at 50, 75, 100 or 125 
mg/kg/day  for  5  days,  and  observed  for  30  days.  The  MTD  was  50  mg/kg/day.    The  LD50  was  75 
mg/kg/day and the LD90, 100 mg/kg/day. No other parameters were evaluated in this study. In another 
i.p. study, female CBA/CeJ mice were administered 60 mg/kg cladribine every 3 hours for 3 doses on 
days  0,  3,  6  and  9.  Leukopenia,  mild  lymphoid  depletion  and  atrophy  occurred  by  Day  3.  Acute 
tubular necrosis, dilation, degeneration, and interstitial fibrosis in the kidney were evident by Day 9. 
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) showed mild to moderate elevation by Day 6 (Carson 2002).   
Repeated  s.c.  administration  of  cladribine  in  mice  was  carried  out  to  determine  the  LD10,  for 
subsequent pharmacokinetic comparisons between mouse and man. Doses of 12.6, 17, 42, 75 and 100 
mg/kg/day were given for 5 days. The top dose was lethal to 40% of the animals during the first week 
of  the  4-week  observation  period.  No  deaths  occurred  at  75  mg/kg/day  and  therefore  the  LD10  was 
somewhere between these figures (Reichelova, Juliusson et al., 1995).   
The applicant reviewed the results of two studies using continuous i.v. infusion over 7 or 14 days in 
monkeys. At a dose of 1 mg/kg/day for 7 days, the animals became lethargic and developed diarrhoea, 
leukopenia  and  anaemia.  This  had  recovered  after  a  1-week  treatment-free  period.  At  a  dose  of  2 
mg/kg/day  for  7  days,  severe  nausea  and  vomiting  and  seizures  were  observed.  The  animal  became 
8/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
ataxic on Day 9 and it was sacrificed on Day 10. Severe dehydration and electrolyte disturbances were 
attributed to the vomiting. Microscopic examination revealed marked suppression of rapidly dividing 
tissues  such  as  bone  marrow  and  testicular  tissue,  and  accounts  for  the  thinness  of  the  skin  and 
compromised  integrity  of  the  intestinal  mucosa.  In  the  14-day  study,  lower  doses  (up  to  0.6 
mg/kg/day)  were  used.  There  were  no  deaths.  The  study  included  clinical  observations,  physical 
examinations  (ECGs  and  ophthalmoscopy  at  pretest,  end  of  treatment,  end  of  recovery).  Effects  of 
treatment included weight loss (which may have been due in part to a reduction in food consumption 
caused  by treatment-related lesions  on  the  tongue),  abnormal  neurological functions, haematological 
effects  (reduction  of  RBCs,  haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  neutrophils  and  lymphocytes),  changes  in 
blood  chemistry  (decreased  cholesterol,  phosphate,  potassium  and  albumin),  and  changes  in  the 
lymphocyte sub-sets (significant  decreases of approximately  60%  of total B and T cells). The target 
organs for lesions/necrosis were the bone marrow, skin, small intestine, lymphoid system, and salivary 
gland.  Animals  in  the  recovery  group  regained  most  of  their  body  weight,  and  haematology  and 
chemistry values had returned to or were approaching pre-dose values. Histopathological lesions had 
generally resolved by the end of the recovery period. The no toxic effect dose was 0.1 mg/kg in this 
study (Carson 2002). 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetics have not been reported.  
Genotoxicity  
An imbalance of deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) pools occurred within 3 h of treatment of 
mouse mammary tumour FM3A cells with 20 µM cladribine. After a further 9 h, mature DNA strands 
broke and cells lost viability. Breaks in double- and single-strand DNA were observed after another 6 
h.  Double-strand  breaks  (DSB)  are  probably  involved  in  cladribine-induced  cell  death,  and  may  be 
triggered by dNTP imbalance. The percentage of cells in the S phase increased with time when these 
cells were incubated with cladribine, with the ratio of cells in the G1/S phases as well as cell viability 
decreasing throughout 24 h exposure (Hirota, Yoshioka et al., 1989). 
Cladribine  (0.3  µM)  inhibited  DNA  synthesis  in  human  lymphoblastic  CCRF-CEM  cells  by  90% 
within  30  minutes.  There  was  marked  inhibition  of  intracellular  conversion  of  cytidine  to 
deoxycytidine,  indicating  inhibition  of  ribonucleotide  reductase.  Addition  of  deoxycytidine  only 
restored DNA synthesis to 40% of its normal value, implying another mechanism apart from depletion 
of dNTP pools is involved (Griffig, Motyl et al., 1989).   
Most  DNA  strand  breaks  induced  in  resting  human  peripheral  blood  lymphocytes  by  500  rad  γ-
irradiation  rejoined  within  2h  of  exposure.  Cladribine  inhibited  DNA  repair,  blocking  unscheduled 
DNA synthesis with significant activity even at 100 nM (Seto, Carrera et al, 1986). 
In  resting  human  peripheral  blood  lymphocytes  treated  with  1  or  10  µM  cladribine,  DNA  strand 
breaks accumulated after 4h, intracellular NAD levels fell significantly after 8 h, ATP pools depleted 
after 24 h and cell death occurred after 48 h. NAD depletion and cladribine toxicity were prevented by 
incubation  with  the  NAD  precursor  (and  poly(ADP)-ribose  synthetase  inhibitor)  nicotinamide  (Seto, 
Carrera et al, 1985).  
According  to  another  published  study,  double-strand  breaks  were  observed  2  h  after  incubation  of 
Chinese  hamster  V79  cells  with  5  µM  cladribine,  but  were  almost  rejoined  by  a  subsequent  1  h 
incubation, despite the presence of drug in the medium. This repair was prevented by the addition of 
nicotinamide, but not by the addition of 9-β-D-arabino-furanosyl-adenine (araA), which inhibits DNA 
polymerisation.  The  authours  suggested  that  the  repair  of  caldribine-induced  DSB  is  achieved  by 
ligation alone without DNA polymerisation (Tanabe, Hiraoka et al., 1989).   
The repair of the potentially lethal damage to Chinese hamster V79 cells caused by X-irradiation was 
dose-dependently  inhibited  by  cladribine  (0.5  to  1.5  mM).  The  inhibition  was  prevented  when 
deoxycytidine was added with the cladribine (Tanabe, Hiraoka et al., 1988).   
In a further study, Chinese hamster V79 cells exposed to cladribine at 5 and 7.5 µM for 3 h after X-
irradiation  enhanced  the  lethal  effects  of  the  X-rays  dose-dependently.  In  the  absence  of  cladribine, 
90%  of  the  DSB’s  were  rejoined  within  30  minutes  of  irradiation.  Co-incubation  with  5  to  10  µM 
cladribine for 3 h after irradiation rejoined 15 to 40% of the DSB’s. Almost  all single-strand breaks 
9/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
were  rejoined  within  15  minutes,  regardless  of  the  presence  or  absence  of  cladribine.  The  authors 
concluded  that  cladribine  interfered  exclusively  with  DSB  repair,  increasing  the  lethality  in  X-
irradiated Chinese hamster V79 cells (Kuwabara, Tanabe et al. 1991).  
Carcinogenicity 
The  applicant,  following  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer 
Medicinal Products (CPMP/SWP/997/96), has not conducted carcinogenicity studies with cladribine.   
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Fertility  studies  were  not  conducted,  but  marked  testicular  atrophy  and  the  complete  absence  of 
spermatogenesis was noted in a monkey that had received cladribine by continuous i.v. infusion at 1 
mg/kg/day for 7 days, then 2 mg/kg/day for 7 days after a one week rest.   
Embryo-foetal development 
Cladribine administered i.v. at 0.5, 1.5 and 3.0 mg/kg/day to Crl:CD-1(ICR)BR mice on days 6 to 15 
of  gestation  produced  foetal  variations  at  the  mid-  and  high-doses.  At  3.0  mg/kg/day,  foetal  weight 
was  significantly  decreased  and  there  were  increased  resorptions,  reduced  live  litter  sizes  and 
increased  malformations  of  the  head,  trunk  and  appendages.  The  NOEL  was  0.5  mg/kg/day.  There 
was no apparent maternal toxicity even at the high dose (Mitala, Hoberman et al. 1996).   
At a dose of 4 mg/kg administered to mice (strain not specified) i.p. on day 7 of gestation, cladribine 
produced a foetal resorption rate of 83% (Skalko, Robbins et al., 1995).   
Cladribine has been used as a teratogenic agent to investigate the relationship between p53-dependent 
apoptosis and teratogenesis in mouse embryos carrying different p53 genotypes. A single i.p. dose was 
administered on day 8 of gestation and embryos examined on day 11 or day 17. Cladribine stimulated 
nuclear  p53  accumulation  and  triggered  apoptosis  in  some  (head-fold)  but  not  all  (primitive  heart) 
developing structures. The induction of cell death was dependent on p53 gene dose, with the incidence 
of defects being 73.3% in p53 wild-type mice, 52.5% in heterozygous mutants and 2.2% in p53-null 
mutants.  Abnormal  development  was  manifested  as  eye  defects  by  day  11,  especially  lens  agenesis 
(Wubah, Ibrahim et al., 1996).   
I.p. administration of cladribine (0.5 to 10 mg/kg) to CD-1 mice on day 8 of gestation produced a low 
incidence  of  microphthalmia  at  5  mg/kg,  but  at  10  mg/kg,  cladribine  was  embryolethal  (Knudsen, 
Nguyen  et  al.,  1997).  This  was  further  investigated  in  a  later  study,  which  suggested  that 
microphthalmia was a critical malformation of cladribine in this model, with no effect at 1.5 mg/kg, 
teratogenicity  at  5.0  mg/kg  and  embryo-lethality  at  10.0  mg/kg,  when  administered  on  day  8  of 
gestation (Wubah, Setzer et al. 2001).   
Cladribine administered i.v. at 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg/day to New Zealand White rabbits on days 7 to 
19  of  gestation  produced  reduced  ossification  of  the  phalangeal  bones  at  1.0  mg/kg/day.  At  3.0 
mg/kg/day, foetal weight was significantly decreased and there were increased malformations, mainly 
of  the  limbs.  The  NOEL  was  0.3  mg/kg/day.  There  was  no  apparent  maternal  toxicity  at  any  dose 
(Mitala, Hoberman et al. 1996).   
In contrast to the effects in CD-1 mice (microphthalmia at 5 mg/kg i.p. on day 8), cladribine had little 
effect in Sprague-Dawley rats when administered i.p. at 15 mg/kg on day 10 of gestation (Knudsen, 
Nguyen et al. 1997).  
Local tolerance 
Non-clinical  studies  using  the  subcutaneous  route  have  not  been  conducted  to  investigate  local 
tolerance specifically. However, studies in animals using this route did not reveal any irritation at the 
injection  site.  Clinical  data  is  available  using  the  subcutaneous  route  to  provide  information  on  the 
local  tolerance  of  cladribine  (Liliemark,  Albertioni  et  al.  1992;  Betticher,  Zucca  et  al.  1996;  Sperb, 
von Rohr et al. 1998). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant  calculated  crude  predicted  environmental  concentration  in  the  aquatic  compartment. 
Based on worst-case conditions (maximum of usage, a removal rate of zero and a minimum of volume 
10/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
of  wastewater  per  capita  and  day),  the  calculated  crude  predicted  environmental  concentration  of 
cladribine in the aquatic compartment was as low as 0.0008 mg/l. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The applicant has conducted an extensive review of the toxico-pharmacological studies for cladribine 
available in the literature. More than 80 studies have been found to be relevant for LITAK, and the 
bibliographical references have been provided and discussed by the applicant. Although GLP 
compliance was not systematically reported in the publications reviewed, consistent results have been 
shown across multiple studies, so that there is sufficient reassurance that the studies are reliable, and 
that the results are of general applicability. Furthermore, the current scientific knowledge on the 
toxico-pharmacological effects of cladribine has been confirmed through the vast clinical experience, 
as demonstrated by the clinical documentation presented by the applicant and the available experience 
in human.By choosing not to repeat certain animal studies, the applicant aimed to reduce the number 
of animals used for experimental purposes, and to limit animal testing to cases where there is a 
reasonable expectation that the result will extend the knowledge, with reference to Council Directive 
86/609/EEC of 24 November 1986 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative 
provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental and other 
scientific purposes, and Council Decision 1999/575/EC of 23 March 1998 concerning the conclusion 
by the Community of the European Convention for the protection of vertebrate animals used for 
experimental and other scientific purposes. This is in agreement with recital 10, and the general 
principles of Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. Although the studies described in the 
literature were conducted with cladribine from different sources, and mostly focussing on the 
intravenous route, no relevant differences with the LITAK formulation would reasonably be expected. 
Concerning the route of administration, the applicant claimed that the pharmacological and 
toxicological data published in the scientific literature are relevant for the proposed product LITAK, 
based mainly on the 100% bioavailability after subcutaneous administration. Thus, the relevance of 
studies which concern cladribine from different sources has been justified. 
Pharmacology  
A large number of pharmacodynamic studies that are relevant to the proposed indication for cladribine 
are available in the literature. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have been reported, and many included 
comparisons  with  other  cytostatic  agents.  Cladribine  is  particularly  active  in  cells  that  have  high 
deoxycytidine kinase activity and relatively low deoxynucleotidase, such as lymphoma and leukaemia 
cell types. Solid tumours are much less sensitive to cladribine. The comparative pharmacodynamics of 
cladribine  versus  other  cytotoxic  agents  is  also  known.  In  contrast  to  other  cytotoxic  agents  tested, 
cladribine has been shown to be equally potent in resting cells and proliferating cells, which suggests 
it  may have  a role in indolent  diseases.  Primary pharmacodynamic studies  were  not  repeated by the 
applicant and it is agreed that additional studies are not required, as they would be unlikely to add any 
significant new knowledge about the primary pharmacodynamics of cladribine. 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  specific  secondary  pharmacodynamic  or  safety  pharmacology 
studies.  ECG  measurements  were  included  in  the  observations  in  a  2-week  toxicity  study  in 
Cynomolgus  monkeys,  showing  no  adverse  effect  of  treatment.  The  safety  profile  and  the  adverse 
effects  observed  in  patients  treated  with  cladribine  have  been  extensively  described  in  the  literature 
and  in  the  clinical  study  results  submitted  by  the  applicant.  Although  no  specific  secondary 
pharmacodynamic  or  safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  undertaken,  this  is  acceptable  in  the 
specific  case  of  LITAK  because  at  the  time  when  the  development  of  LITAK  started,  clinical 
experience  with  cladribine  was  available  already  and  therefore  it  would  not  have  been  useful  to 
perform additional pharmacology studies  in animals.  This is in accordance with the CPMP  Note for 
Guidance  on  the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP/SWP/997/96) 
which highlights the need of safety pharmacology studies for compounds with a novel mechanism of 
action. 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  specific  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  with  LITAK. 
Nevertheless, pharmacodynamic interactions have been reported between cladribine and interferon-α, 
with  synergistic  effects  reported  in  granulocyte-macrophage  progenitor  cells  and  clonogenic  blasts, 
and between cladribine and chlorambucil in CLL. Cross-reactions with other antineoplastic agents in 
vitro  (e.g.  doxorubicin,  vincristine,  cytarabine,  cyclophosphamide)  and  in  vivo  have  not  been 
11/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
observed.  However,  an  in  vitro  study  revealed  cross-resistance  between  cladribine  and  nitrogen 
mustard  (chlormethine)  (Nagourney,  Evans  et  al.,  1993).  For  cytarabine,  an  in  vivo  cross-reaction 
without loss of activity has been reported. Due to the similar intracellular metabolism, cross-resistance 
with  other  nucleoside  analogues,  such  as  fludarabine  or  2’-deoxycoformycin  may  occur.  Therefore, 
simultaneous administration of nucleoside analogues with cladribine is not advisable. Corticosteroids 
have been shown to enhance the risk for severe infections when used in combination with cladribine 
and  should  not  be  given  concomitantly  with  cladribine.  Since  interactions  with  drugs  undergoing 
intracellular phosphorylation, such as antiviral agents, or with inhibitors of adenosine uptake may be 
expected,  their  concomitant  use  with  cladribine  is  not  recommended.  The  concomitant  use  of  other 
myelosuppressive  medicinal  products  is  contraindicated  (see  section  4.3  of  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics). No additional pharmacodynamic interaction studies with LITAK are prompted either 
on pharmacological grounds or based on the intended therapeutic use. 
Overall,  the  knowledge  about  primary  and  secondary  pharmacodynamics,  safety  pharmacology,  and 
pharmacodynamic interactions of cladribine is considered sufficient , and therefore the requirements in 
terms of non-clinical  pharmacology documentation  as set  out in  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended, 
are considered fulfilled. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of cladribine have been studied more extensively in clinical than in non-clinical 
studies.  A  series  of  articles  and  reviews  are  available  in  the  published  literature  and  have  been 
submitted as bibliographic references. Sufficient details about the analytical methods are described in 
the publications of the individual investigations. 
Bioavailability  studies  have  only  been  performed  in  humans.  Cladribine  is  100%  bioavailable 
following  s.c.  administration,  although  mean  residence  time  was  significantly  shorter  after  s.c.  as 
compared to i.v. administration. The pharmacokinetic parameters after continuous or intermittent i.v. 
infusion and after s.c. bolus injection are comparable, with a 100% bioavailability, similar AUC, half 
life, and clearance values. When the s.c. administration is compared with the 2-h i.v. infusion, even the 
differences in the peak plasma concentrations are minor. 
The  plasma  concentration/time  curve  could  be  fitted  to  a  2-compartment  model  in  both  man  and 
mouse following s.c. administration of half of the LD10 and the MTD, respectively.  The half-lives of 
drug disposition and elimination in mice were 11.4 and 150 minutes, respectively. The corresponding 
values in man were much longer, at 1.47 and 13.3 hours. The tmax was similar (15 to 20 minutes), but a 
much higher Cmax occurred in mice.  
Plasma protein binding was lower in mice (about 4%) than in patients (about 25%), but was variable, 
with  values  ranging  from  approximately 6 to 51%.    In  normal subjects it  was slightly  lower than  in 
patients (10 to 33%, with a mean of 21%).   
Cladribine  is  activated  by  intracellular  conversion  by  deoxycytidine  kinase  to  its  monophosphate, 
which is phosphorylated by nucleoside monophosphate kinase to the disphosphate, and ultimately to 
the triphosphate 2-CdATP by nucleoside diphosphate kinase.  In rats, cladribine is metabolised to 2-
chloroadenine.  High  concentrations  are  found  in  patient  plasma  after  oral  administration,  but  also 
(lower) after i.v. administration. This metabolite seems to have some cytotoxic activity in itself (about 
1/8 of that of 2-CdA). Thus, after oral administration the metabolite can be of some importance for the 
cytotoxic activity of 2-CdA while it is probably negligible when 2-CdA is administered i.v. or s.c. 
Overall,  the  knowledge  about  the  pharmacokinetics  of  cladribine  as  described  in  the  literature  is 
considered sufficient. The applicant did not carry out additional non-clinical pharmacokinetic studies 
with LITAK. Additional non-clinical pharmacokinetic studies are unlikely to add any significant new 
knowledge about the pharmacokinetic profile of cladribine, and are therefore not required. Thus, the 
requirements  in  terms  of  pharmacokinetic  documentation  as  set  out  in  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as 
amended, are considered fulfilled. 
Toxicology 
No acute toxicity studies were conducted using the proposed subcutaneous route. One of the primary 
aims  of  toxicity  studies  for  this  type  of  agent  is  to  establish  the  MTD  in  rodents,  which  is  used  to 
define  the  starting  dose  in  Phase  I  trials  (Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of 
12/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Anticancer Medicinal Products, CPMP/SWP/997/96). There was no  mortality up to  90  mg/kg in the 
i.p. mouse study. However, the mouse is much less sensitive to cladribine than is man. Results from 
Phase I trials in man have been available since decades, supporting the currently approved regimen of 
1 mg/ml solution administered by continuous i.v. infusion. It has been established that bioavailability 
was  100%  in  humans  using  the  s.c.  route,  and  that  s.c.  administration  was  well  tolerated.  Clinical 
Phase  I  trials  have  established  the  MTD  of  cladribine  following  i.v.  administration,  and  the 
recommended dose in man has also been established for the i.v route. Given the 100% bioavailability 
of  the  subcutaneous  route,  there  is  no  requirement  to  conduct  additional  single-dose  toxicity  studies 
with LITAK. 
The applicant submitted the results and study reports of two studies using continuous i.v. infusion over 
7 days or 14 days in monkeys. Furthermore, repeat dose studies in mice using the intraperitoneal and 
subcutaneous route were submitted as bibliographic references. As stated in the Note for Guidance on 
the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP/SWP/997/96),  a  repeat  dose 
study of limited duration in two rodent species should be performed prior to Phase I trials. Repeat dose 
toxicity studies should be conducted in a rodent and a non-rodent species. The duration of the studies 
should be at least as long as the duration of the clinical trials. In the case of LITAK, Phase I clinical 
trials  have  already  been  conducted,  and  the  rodent  species  do  not  appear  to  be  good  predictors  of 
human toxicity. Therefore, further studies in rodents would not be appropriate.  
The repeat dose toxicity studies submitted were shorter than the duration of clinical trials, and used a 
different  schedule  compared  to  the  proposed  clinical  schedule.  Concerning  the  latter,  the  100% 
bioavailability of cladribine after subcutaneous administrations justifies the relevance of the results of 
the intravenous toxicity study for the proposed clinical route of administration of LITAK. In addition, 
as the 14-day monkey study employed continuous treatment with cladribine, the toxicity is likely to be 
higher  than  with  an  intermittent  regimen.  The  study  is  therefore  considered  relevant  for  LITAK. 
Concerning the limited duration, given the extensive clinical experience and submitted clinical safety 
data  with  cladribine,  it  is  considered  that  additional  long-term  toxicity  studies  in  animals  would  not 
yield any significant new information on the target organ toxicity and reversibility of effects.  
The observed toxicity was typical for a drug of this type. Since toxicokinetics have not been reported, 
safety margins cannot be calculated. On a mg/kg basis, the no effect level in the 14-day monkey study 
is similar to that intended for patients.  
The  toxic  signs  observed  in  animal  studies  are  dose-dependent  and  are  generally  slowly  reversible. 
Haematotoxicity and neurotoxicity, (at ≥ 4 times the recommended dose), have also been reported in 
patients. The gastrointestinal effects observed in the toxicity studies are reported to be generally mild 
in  patients.  Toxicity  associated  with  the  recommended  dosage  in  patients  has  been  limited  to 
myelosuppression (thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia), fever, and infection. 
In  conclusion,  given  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  submitted,  the  present  state  of  scientific 
knowledge,  and  taking  into  account  the  extensive  clinical  experience  with  cladribine  and  safety 
documentation submitted, additional repeated-dose toxicity studies with LITAK are not required.  
Conventional  genotoxicity  studies  with  cladribine  have  not  been  conducted  by  the  applicant,  but 
results from available studies in the literature have been submitted as bibliographical references. These 
studies have revealed the genotoxic effects of cladribine. Cladribine is a cytotoxic medicinal product, 
which is mutagenic to cultured mammalian cells. In vitro studies in various cell lines have shown that 
cladribine induces dNTP imbalance, DNA strand breaks, depletion of NAD and ATP, and cell death.  
It also inhibits DNA repair.  These findings confirm the generally proposed mechanism of action and 
the therapeutic effect  of cladribine. This is adequately reflected under  "Carcinogenesis/mutagenesis" 
in section 5.3 of the Summary of Product Characteristics. Repetition of genotoxicity studies described 
in the bibliographic references is not considered necessary, as this is unlikely to yield any significant 
new knowledge about the mutagenic and clastogenic potential of cladribine. Similarly, in view of the 
present state of scientific knowledge, the conduct of additional genotoxicity studies is not considered 
necessary. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  conducted.  Such  studies  with  unequivocally  genotoxic 
compounds are not required as they are presumed to be trans-species carcinogens, implying a hazard 
to humans. This is in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2001/83/EC, Annex I, Part I.4.2.3, 
and follows the recommendations of the ICH note for guidance on the need for carcinogenicity studies 
13/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
of  pharmaceuticals  (ICH/S1A),  and  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of 
Anticancer Medicinal Products (CPMP/SWP/997/96). 
for  Guidance  on 
Specific  studies  on  the  effects  of  cladribine  on  fertility  have  not  been  conducted.  According  to  the 
Note 
the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products 
(CPMP/SWP/997/96),  studies  of  toxicity  to  reproduction  are  not  required  because  reproductive 
disturbances  are  expected.  Indeed,  it  may  be  expected  that  cladribine,  in  common  with  other 
compounds  of  this  type,  may  have  an  adverse  effect  on  fertility.  Testicular  degeneration  and 
aspermatogenesis  was  noted  in  a  monkey  given  2mg/kg/day  for  7  days  by  continuous  i.v.  infusion. 
Adequate information has been included under "Impairment of fertility" in sections 4.4 and 5.3 of the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Additional fertility and early embryonic development studies are 
therefore not required. 
Embryo-foetal,  prenatal  and  postnatal  development  studies  have  not  been  conducted.  Based  on 
published  investigations,  cladribine  has  produced  embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  effects  in  mice  and 
rabbits,  which  is  again  not  unexpected  from  a  product  of  this  type.  LITAK  is  contraindicated  in 
pregnancy and lactation, and section 4.6 of the Summary of Product Characteristics warns that women 
of child-bearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with LITAK. According 
to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Pre-clinical  Evaluation  of  Anticancer  Medicinal  Products 
(CPMP/SWP/997/96),  studies  of  toxicity  to  reproduction  are  not  required  because  reproductive 
disturbances  are  expected.  Additional  animal  studies  of  embryo-foetal,  prenatal  and  postnatal 
development,  or  studies  in  which  the  offspring  are  dosed  or  further  evaluated  with  LITAK  are  not 
required. 
Local tolerance has not been investigated in specific non-clinical studies using the subcutaneous route. 
However  those  studies  that  have  been  conducted  in  animals  using  this  route  did  not  reveal  any 
irritation at the injection site. The absence of further studies in animals is considered justified given 
that  there  is  extensive  clinical  experience  using  this  route.  Additional  non-clinical  local  toxicity 
studies are unlikely to add any significant new knowledge about the safety profile of cladribine, and 
are therefore not required. 
An assessment of environmental risk has been undertaken, concentrating on the aquatic compartment. 
This seems reasonable given the water solubility, low vapour pressure and N-octanol/water partition 
coefficient  of  cladribine.  The  predicted  environmental  concentration  of  cladribine  in  the  aquatic 
compartment  is  well  below  the  limit  of  0.1  µg/l,  and  consequently  no  further  testing  is  considered 
necessary.   
In  conclusion,  the  knowledge  about  the  toxicology  of  cladribine,  based  on  available  studies  in  the 
literature  and  the  documentation  submitted  by  the  applicant,  is  considered  sufficient.  Given  also  the 
extensive  clinical  experience  with  cladribine,  additional  non-clinical  toxicology  studies  are  not 
expected  to  provide  any  significant  new  information  about  the  safety  profile  of  cladribine,  and  are 
therefore not required. The requirements in terms of toxicology documentation as set out in Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended, are considered fulfilled. 
Conclusions on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall,  there  is  sufficient  knowledge  about  the  pharmacological  and  toxicological  actions  of 
cladribine,  based  on  studies  in  the  literature.  The  results  of  published  pharmacological  and 
toxicological  tests  have  shown  the  potential  toxicity  of  LITAK,  undesirable  toxic  effects  that  might 
occur  under the  proposed  conditions of use,  and its  pharmacological properties. The results  of  these 
tests  are  considered  reliable  and  of  general  applicability.  The  format  and  critical  assessment  of  the 
non-clinical evaluation of cladribine presented by the applicant is adequate. Adequate discussion and 
justifications  for  the  non-clinical  testing  strategies  have  been  provided.  Given  the  present  state  of 
scientific  knowledge,  the  bibliographical  references  provided  by  the  applicant,  and  the  extensive 
clinical documentation for LITAK, additional non-clinical pharmacology or toxicological studies are 
unlikely to add any significant new knowledge about the safety profile of cladribine, and are therefore 
not required. Thus, the requirements in terms of pharmacological and toxicological documentation as 
set out in Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, are considered fulfilled. 
14/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 4:  Clinical aspects  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Available  publications  addressing  pharmacokinetics  of  cladribine  in  humans  have  been  submitted 
(Table 2). One study has been performed with LITAK (Sonderegger, Betticher et al 1996). All other 
pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  using  other  cladribine  products  (own  formulations, 
Leustatin/Leutstat or Biodribin). 
Table 2: Pharmacokinetic studies with 2-CdA 
Author/ 
year  
No 
pts. 
Liliemark et al. 1991  12 
Dose  
mg/kg/day 
x 5 days 
0.14 
Liliemark et al. 1992  13 
0.14 
Albertioni et al. 1993  3 
Liliemark et al. 1995   38 
11 
8 
10 
Saven et al.  
1996  
Tobinai et al. 1997  
9 
Albertioni et al. 1998   17 
9 
Sonderegger et al.  
1998/2000  
0.28 
0.12 (2d) 
0.12 
0.09 (7d) 
0.12 
0.14 
0.28 
3: 0.06 
6: 0.09 
(7d) 
10mg/m2 
0.10 
Duration 
& Route
Cmax 
(nM) 
2h i.v. 
24h i.v. 
2h i.v. 
s.c. 
p.o. a 
p.o. a 
s.c. 
2h i.v. 
s.c. 
2h i.v. 
2h i.v. 
p.o. 
24h i.v.  
24h i.v. 
198 ± 87 
23 ± 11 
169 ± 90 
318 ± 91 
53 ± 6 
196±149 
38-64 
112 ± 46 
N/A 
N/A 
54 ± 20 
42 ± 19 
18.5±1.7 
21.0±3.7 
t 1/2 ß / 
terminal 
(h) 
6.7 ± 2.5 
N/A 
9.9 ± 4.6 
13.3 ± 7.1 
13.1 
10.4 ± 3.4 
7.4-15.3 
10.0 ± 5.0 
10.3 ± 7.0 
5.3 ± 2.6 
16.4 ± 7.1 
N/A 
22.5 ± 7.4 
30.3 ± 9.5 
p.o. 
24h i.v. 
s.c. 
107 
18 ± 2 
179 ± 56 
21.1 
6.1 
11.0 
AUC 
(nM.h) 
588 ± 185 
552 ± 258 
761 ± 276 
799 ± 212 
400 ± 114 
667 ± 294 
454-701 
573 ± 244 
611 ± 181 
453 ± 309 
199 ± 70 
146 ± 56 
2661±300 
3128±538 
541 
571 ± 50 
608 ± 65 
Remarks  
F=102%±28% 
F=48% ± 8% 
F=55% ± 17% 
CLL pts. 
HCL pts. 
AML pts. 
F= 37% ± 10% 
AUC of 7 days
AUC of 7 days
Identical 
bioavailability 
N/A, not analysed; a, in phosphate buffered solution (PBS) with omeprazole; F = 
bioavailability 
Absorption 
Cladribine  shows  complete  bioavailability  after  parenteral  administration;  the  mean  area  under  the 
concentration  versus  time  curve  (AUC)  in  plasma  is  comparable  after  continuous  or  intermittent  2-
hour intravenous infusion and after subcutaneous injection. In a study in patients with low-grade non-
Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia,  patients  received  a  2  h  i.v.  infusion  (0.14 
mg/kg), a subcutaneous dose (0.14 mg/kg) and an oral dose (as either a solution or in capsules at 0.14 
mg/kg  or  a  solution  at  0.28  mg/kg)  on  consecutive  days,  although  in  different  orders.  The 
subcutaneous administration produced a high peak concentration (318 pmol/ml) of short duration, but 
the  AUC  (799  pmol.h/ml)  was  almost  the  same  as  that  following  i.v.  infusion  (761  pmol.h/ml; 
bioavailability 102%). The tmax following s.c. administration was 0.34 h (Liliemark, Albertioni et al. 
1992).   
In patients with low grade lymphoproliferative disorders, a single dose of 0.1 mg/kg was administered 
by  the  i.v.  or  s.c.  routes.  The  AUC’s  were  548  and  570  pmol.h/ml  following  i.v.  and  s.c. 
administration,  respectively.  In  the  latter  group,  Cmax  was  180  pmol/ml  and  occurred  at  30  minutes 
post-dose (Sonderegger, Betticher et al. 1996).  
Distribution 
The steady-state plasma concentration of cladribine amounts to about 7 ng/ml and is reached within 5 
to 8 hours after the start of a 2-hour infusion. A maximum plasma concentration Cmax of 48 ng/ml is 
15/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measured on average 112 minutes after the infusion. After subcutaneous bolus injection a maximum 
plasma concentration Cmax of 91 ng/ml is reached on average after 20 minutes only (dose: 0.14 mg/kg 
body weight/day). In another study using a dose of 0.10 mg/kg body weight/day, the maximum plasma 
concentration Cmax after continuous intravenous infusion  was 5.1 ng/ml  (tmax: 12  hours) compared  to 
51 ng/ml after subcutaneous bolus injection (tmax: 25 minutes). The clinical relevance of the different 
peak  plasma  concentrations  after  intravenous  and  subcutaneous  administration  of  cladribine  has  not 
been examined. 
The  mean  volume  of  distribution  in  man  is  reported  to  be  9.2  l/kg  (Liliemark  and  Juliusson,  1991). 
Plasma protein binding of cladribine is 25% on average with a wide interindividual variation (5 - 50%) 
(Albertioni, Herngren et al. 1994). Cladribine crosses the blood-brain barrier and has been measured in 
CSF at levels about 25% of those in plasma. Intrathecal concentrations of cladribine average 18 - 25% 
of  the  plasma  concentrations  in  studies  with  intravenous  administration.  Peak  cerebrospinal  fluid 
concentrations of 6 and 2 ng/ml, respectively, could be measured after intermittent 2-hour infusion or 
continuous  intravenous  infusion  (dose:  0.12 mg/kg  body  weight/day).  In  one  single  patient 
administered LITAK by subcutaneous bolus, intrathecal concentration after 2 hours reached 8.75% of 
the  plasma  concentration,  but  further  experience  is  needed  (Liliemark  and  Juliusson,  1992;  Saven, 
Kawasaki et al., 1993). 
Intracellular concentrations are reportedly much greater than those in plasma and that the intracellular 
half-life  is  longer.  (Liliemark  and  Juliusson  1995).  Intracellular  concentration  of  cladribine  exceeds 
plasma drug concentration by 128 to 375 times. 
Metabolism 
is  metabolised  predominantly  by  deoxycytidine  kinase 
to  2-
Intracellular  cladribine 
chlorodeoxyadenosine-5'-monophosphate  that  is  further  phosphorylated  to  the  diphosphate  by 
nucleoside monophosphate kinase and to the active metabolite 2-chloro-deoxy-adenosinetriphosphate 
(2-CdATP)  by nucleoside  diphosphate  kinase.  Cladribine is  concentrated intracellularly due  to rapid 
metabolic  activation  to  this  pharmacologically  active  metabolite  (2-CdATP).  No  other  metabolic 
pathways have been described and plasma concentrations of 2-CdATP have not been reported. 
Elimination 
In  man,  elimination  occurs  via  a  2-  or  3-compartment  model,  with  α-  and  β-half-lives  of  about  35 
minutes and 6.7 hours, respectively.  
Terminal half-life is reported to be 7 to 10 hours after continuous i.v. administration (0.1 mg/kg/day 
for 7 days) and 19.5 hours after intermittent i.v. infusion (0.14 mg/kg/day for 2 h/day on 5 consecutive 
days).  The  biexponential  decline  of  the  serum  concentration  of  cladribine  after  subcutaneous  bolus 
injection is comparable to elimination parameters after 2-hour intravenous infusion with an initial and 
terminal half-life of approximately 2 hours and 11 hours, respectively (Liliemark and Juliusson 1991).   
The intracellular retention time of cladribine nucleotides in vivo is clearly prolonged as compared to 
the  retention  time  in  the  plasma:  Half-lives  t1/2  of  initially  15  hours  and  subsequently  more  than  30 
hours were measured in leukaemic cells. 
Cladribine  is  eliminated  mainly  by  the  kidneys.  The  renal  excretion  of  unmetabolised  cladribine 
occurs  within  24  hours  and  accounts  for  15%  and  18%  of  the  dose  after  2-hour  intravenous  and 
subcutaneous  administration,  respectively.  The  remaining  82-85%  is  apparently  excreted  as 
metabolites, but this has not been studied further. The mean plasma clearance amounts to 794 ml/min 
after  intravenous  infusion  and  to  814 ml/min  after  subcutaneous  bolus  injection  at  a  dose  of 
0.10 mg/kg body weight/day (Sonderegger, Betticher et al. 1996). 
Bioavailability/Bioequivalence 
The available published studies about the bioavailability of subcutaneous cladribine were presented by 
the applicant. The bioavailability of the subcutaneous administration, compared to 2-hour i.v. infusion 
in  13  patients,  was  102  ±  28  %  with  no  difference  in  the  AUC  (Liliemark,  Albertioni  et  al.,  1992). 
These patients had malignant haematologic disease (B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and 
low-grade  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma).  One  study  compared  the  pharmacokinetics  of  LITAK 
administered  as  a  24-hour  intravenous  infusion  versus  subcutaneous  administration  at  a  dose  0.1 
mg/kg/day  for  5  days  (Sonderegger,  Betticher  et  al.,  1996).  This  study  was  conducted  in  9  patients 
16/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
with  low-grade  lymphoproliferative  disorders  (non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  or  chronic  lymphocytic 
leukaemia).  The  volume  of  distribution  was  1.58  l/kg  for  i.v.  and  1.67  l/kg  for  s.c.  cladribine.  The 
applicant  did  not  carry  out  additional  bioavailability  studies  with  LITAK.  Although  a  different 
cladribine formulation than LITAK was used in the studies published by Liliemark and colleagues, the 
applicant claimed that results are considered valuable and relevant since they have established a 100% 
bioavailablity of cladribine following subcutaneous administration as seen with LITAK.  
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
There  are  no  formal  studies  available  using  cladribine  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment. 
Clinical  experience  is  very  limited  and  safety  of  LITAK  in  these  patients  is  not  well  established. 
LITAK is therefore contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment  (creatinine 
clearance  ≤ 50 ml/min)  or  with  moderate  to  severe  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  score  ≥ 4).  The 
use of LITAK in children has not been investigated. Experience with patients older than 75 years is 
also limited. Elderly patients should be treated by individual assessment and careful monitoring of the 
blood counts and of the renal and hepatic function. The effects of gender, race, weight have not been 
studied. 
Possible drug-drug interactions have not been studied.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Cladribine  (2-chloro-2'-deoxy-adenosine)  is  an  antimetabolite  especially  active  for  the  treatment  of 
lymphoproliferative  disorders  with  a  low  proliferation  fraction.  It  is  a  prodrug  that  is  activated  by 
intracellular phosphorylation through deoxycytidine kinase (dCK).  
The single substitution of chlorine for hydrogen  distinguishes cladribine from its natural counterpart 
2'-deoxyadenosine and renders the molecule resistant to deamination by adenosine deaminase. 
Cladribine  is  a  prodrug  which  is  converted  intracellularly  by  phosphorylation  into  the  active 
metabolite  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine-5'-triphosphate  (2-CdATP)  by  deoxycytidine  kinase  (dCK). 
Administration  of  cladribine  leads  to  a  rapid  accumulation  of  the  active  nucleotide,  2-chloro-
deoxyadenosine-5'-triphosphate  (2-CdATP),  predominantly  in  cells  with  a  high  dCK  activity  and  a 
low  level  of  deoxynucleotidases.  This  feature  is  a  characteristic  of  lymphoid  cells  and  various 
malignant cells derived from the haematopoietic system.  
Normal  haematopoietic  precursor  cells  are  sensitive  to  cladribine  causing  a  dose-dependent 
suppression  of  all  haematopoietic  cell  lines.  Non-haematologic  tissues  seem  to  be  unaffected, 
explaining the low incidence of non-haematopoietic toxicity 
Primary pharmacology 
The applicant has submitted four published phase I trials with cladribine including patients with T-cell 
and B-cell neoplasms (Table 3).  
Patients with far-advanced intractable haematologic malignancies who had exhausted all conventional 
modes  of  therapy  were  treated  in  an  open-label  phase  I  single  centre  study  (Carson,  Wasson  et  al. 
1984). 9 patients were treated with cladribine 0.1 – 1.0 mg/kg/day by continuous intravenous infusion 
for 4-14 days. In all patients with leukaemia, cladribine lowered the peripheral blast cell count by at 
least 50%. Responses were observed at all dosages (0.1 - 1.0  mg/kg/day). One patient with a severe 
autoimmune  haemolytic  anaemia  refractory  to  conventional  chemotherapy  responded  to  2-CdA  and 
the  haemolytic  process  was  terminated.  Bone  marrow  suppression  was  the  dose-limiting  toxicity. 
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia were observed in all patients receiving a dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day for 
at least 5 days. 
Another open-label phase I single centre study included patients with residual or recurrent malignant 
astrocytomas after definitive surgery and irradiation with measurable or assessable disease as evident 
on computerised axial tomographic (CAT) scans or  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the 
brain and patients with measurable or assessable metastatic malignant melanoma and metastatic renal 
cell  carcinoma  (Saven,  Kawasaki  et  al.  1993).  For  melanoma  and  renal  cell  carcinoma  patients  the 
presence of untreated cranial metastasis was an exclusion criteria. Cladribine was administered as a 7-
day  course,  up  to  4  courses  every  28  days  (exact  study  period  unknown)  -  0.10,  0.15  or  0.20 
17/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
mg/kg/day by continuous intravenous infusion for 7 days. Two of 21 patients (9.5%) with malignant 
astrocytomas achieved a partial response of 7 and 9 months of duration, respectively. No patients with 
metastatic  malignant or  metastatic renal cell carcinoma responded. One of the 7 patients receiving a 
dose of 0.10 mg/kg/day experienced a grade 4 thrombocytopenia during the 2nd course of cladribine. 
Four  of  11  patients  receiving  a  dose  of  0.15  mg/kg/day  experienced  severe  myelotoxicity  (2  with  a 
grade  3  neutropenia,  1  with  a  grade  3  neutropenia  and  grade  4  thrombocytopenia,  1  with  a  grade  4 
neutropenia  and  grade  4  thrombocytopenia).  All  three  patients  receiving  a  dose  of  0.20  mg/kg/day 
developed myelosuppression (1 with grade 3 neutropenia, 1 with grade 4 neutropenia and 1 with grade 
4  neutropenia  and  grade  4  thrombocytopenia).  There  seemed  to  be  a  trend  towards  cumulative 
myelotoxicity after repeated dose of cladribine. Two patients experienced neurological complications. 
A  phase  I  study  of  intermittent  infusion  cladribine  was  conducted  in  patients  with  solid  tumours 
(Kobayashi,  Vogelzang  et  al.  1994).  Patients  with  solid  tumours  refractory  to  standard  therapy  or 
lacking a suitable standard therapy (predominantly non-small cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer). 
Cladribine was given as 5-day course, up to 6 courses every 28 days (exact study period unknown) 4, 
6  or  8  mg/m2/day  by  intermittent  1-hour  intravenous  infusion  for  5  days;  first  cycle:  20  mg/m2 
corresponding to the commonly used dosage of 0.1mg/kg/day for 7 days. No objective responses were 
noted,  although  one  patient  with  colon  cancer  had  stable  disease  for  six  cycles  before  experiencing 
disease  progression.  Myelosuppression  was  dose-limiting.  Grade  4  leucopenia  and  neutropenia 
occurred in 2/4 patients receiving the dose level of 8 mg/m2/day. Minimal thrombocytopenia was seen 
and there was no evidence for cumulative myelosuppression with time. Two patients receiving a dose 
of 6 mg/m2/day were hospitalised for fever following neutropenia. 
Another trial was a dose escalation trial of cladribine using five daily intravenous infusions in patients 
with  advanced  haematologic  malignancies,  predominantly  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  and  acute 
myeloid leukaemia and  myelodysplasia (Larson, Mick et al. 1996). Cladribine 2.5, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12.5, 
15,  18,  or  21.5  mg/m2/day  was  administered  by  intermittent  1-hour  intravenous  infusion  for  5  days. 
There were three complete responses (1 case at 8  mg/m2/day lasting for 7 months  and 2 cases at 15 
mg/m2/day  lasting  for  more  than  2  years).  Partial  remissions  were  observed  in  5  patients:  1  patient 
with  NHL  treated  at  6  mg/m2/day,  1  patient  with  CLL  and  1  patient  with  PLL  treated  at  12.5 
mg/m2/day,  and  1  patient  with  CML  and  1  patient  with  low-grade  NHL  treated  at  18  mg/m2/day. 
Minor responses were seen in 10 patients. Myelosuppression was observed in the majority of patients, 
which  was  partly  prolonged.  Cumulative  thrombocytopenia  was  particularly  pronounced  in  heavily 
pretreated patients. Several patients required prophylactic platelet transfusions since thrombocytopenia 
did  not  resolve  and  was  prolonged.  Dose-limiting  non-haematological 
toxicity,  especially 
neurotoxicity,  was  not  observed  at  doses  including  21.5  mg/m2/day.  The  maximally  tolerated  dose 
(MTD) could not be defined. 
Table 3: Summary of phase I studies presented 
Reference 
N  Maximally tolerated doses 
Carson 1984 
9 
0.1 mg/kg/day x 7 continuous i.v. 
Saven 1993 
Kobayashi 1994 
Larson 1996 
21 * 
18 * 
42 ** 
0.1 mg/kg/day x 7 continuous i.v. 
6 mg/m2/day x 5 i.v. over 1 hour 
21.5 mg/m2/day x 5 i.v. over 1 hour 
Dose limiting  
toxicity 
Myelosuppression and 
at higher doses renal 
and neurotoxicity 
Myelosuppression 
Myelosuppression 
Not reached 
* non-haematopoietic malignancies 
** advanced haematological malignancies 
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The cladribine product currently approved and marketed (Leustatin/Leustat) in the Community is a 1 
mg/ml  solution  administered  by  continuous  intravenous  infusion.  The  proposed  product  LITAK  is  a 
more concentrated solution (2 mg/ml), which can be injected subcutaneously.  
Biopharmaceutic studies 
18/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  specific  biopharmaceutics  studies  with  LITAK.  The  results  of  two 
studies available in the literature were submitted in the form of bibliographic references, investigating 
the  bioavailability  of  cladribine  following  subcutaneous  injection.  The  applicant  did  not  submit 
individual  reports  of  bioanalytical  and  analytical  methods  for  the  clinical  biopharmaceutics 
documentation  provided.  Sufficient  details  about  these  methods  are  available  in  the  bibliographical 
references submitted. These studies show that subcutaneous administration has 100% bioavailability, 
the  AUC  being  identical  to  that  after  intravenous  infusion.  No  direct  relationship  has  been  found 
between plasma systemic exposure of cladribine and intracellular exposure to cladribine nucleotides, 
the  active  metabolites.  The  terminal  elimination  half-lives  of  2-CdA  in  plasma  are  long  and  the 
retention  time  of  intracellular  nucleotide  metabolites  is  prolonged,  which  supports  the  intermittent 
dosing  of  cladribine,  e.g.  by  subcutaneous  bolus  injection.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  intracellular 
nucleotides after intravenous and subcutaneous administration of cladribine was shown to be similar. 
Therefore, no relationship between plasma drug disposition, the route of administration and response 
is  expected,  which  is  also  confirmed  by  clinical  results  showing  no  difference  in  efficacy  after 
intravenous and subcutaneous administration of cladribine. The studies are of high quality and taken 
together with all the clinical documentation submitted, enable a well-founded and scientifically valid 
characterisation  of  the  bioavailability  of  subcutaneous  cladribine.  No  significant  new  information 
would  be  expected  from  repeating  biopharmaceutic  studies,  and  repeating  such  studies  would  be 
considered  to  be  contrary  to  generally  accepted  principles  of  medical  ethics.  Thus,  in  this  case  the 
proposed  format  presented  by  the  applicant  is  acceptable.  Although  bibliographical  data  were 
generated  using  different  formulations  of  cladribine,  and  although  a  different  cladribine  formulation 
than LITAK was used in the studies published by Liliemark et al., clinical results have confirmed that 
there are no significant clinical differences between the different formulations of cladribine including 
intravenous  and  subcutaneous  administration,  and  LITAK.  Given  the  present  state  of  scientific 
knowledge,  the  bibliographical  references  provided  by  the  applicant,  and  the  extensive  clinical 
efficacy documentation for LITAK, additional bioavailability/bioequivalence studies are not required. 
Studies pertinent to pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  specific  plasma  protein  binding  studies  with  LITAK.  The  applicant 
submitted  the  results  of  a  relevant  published  plasma  protein  binding  study  with  cladribine  in  the 
format of a bibliographic reference (Albertioni, Hengren et al. 1994). The study is of high quality, and 
enables a well-founded and scientifically valid characterisation of the protein binding of cladribine in 
healthy  subjects  and  in  patients  with  leukaemia.  Sufficient  documentation  has  been  provided  on  the 
plasma  protein  binding  of  cladribine  and  adequate  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC.  No 
significant  new  information would be expected  from  repeating  such study, and repeating such  study 
would  be  considered  to  be  contrary  to  generally  accepted  principles  of  medical  ethics.  Thus,  in  this 
case the proposed format presented by the applicant is acceptable. Given the present state of scientific 
knowledge,  the  bibliographical  references  provided  by  the  applicant,  and  the  extensive  clinical 
documentation for LITAK, additional plasma protein binding studies are not required. 
The applicant has not performed hepatic metabolism studies and interaction studies using human bio-
materials.  Cladribine  is  a  pro-drug  that  is  metabolised  intracellularly  following  parenteral 
administration, and subcutaneously administered cladribine is not likely to be primarily affected by a 
hepatic  first  pass  effect.  Furthermore,  LITAK  should  not  be  used  concomitantly  with  other 
myelosuppressive medicinal products. Given the present state of scientific knowledge, the conditions 
of normal use and the contraindication in case of patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh score ≥ 4) as reflected in the SPC, additional hepatic metabolism studies and interaction 
studies  using  human  bio-materials,  or  additional  studies  using  other  human  biomaterials  are  not 
required. 
19/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Human pharmacokinetic studies 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  healthy  subjects  and  initial  tolerability 
studies.  This  is  in  agreement  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Evaluation  of  Anticancer 
Medicinal Products in Man (CPMP/EWP/205/95 rev. 2). Therefore, additional human healthy subjects 
pharmacokinetic and initial tolerability studies are not required. 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  specific  studies  with  regard  to  patient  pharmacokinetics  or  initial 
tolerability.  The  applicant  submitted  the  results  of  patient  pharmacokinetics  or  initial  tolerability 
studies available in the literature in the format of bibliographic references. These studies were of high 
quality  and  allowed  a  well-founded  and  scientifically  valid  characterisation  of  the  pharmacokinetics 
and  initial  tolerability  of  cladribine  in  patients  with  various  haematological  malignancies,  as  well  as 
the provision of adequate information in the SPC. No significant new information would be expected 
from repeating pharmacokinetics or initial tolerability, and repeating such studies would be considered 
to  be  contrary  to  generally  accepted  principles  of  medical  ethics.  Thus,  in  this  case  the  proposed 
format  presented  by  the  applicant  is  acceptable.  Given  the  present  state  of  scientific  knowledge,  the 
clinical  documentation  provided  by  the  applicant,  additional  pharmacokinetic  and  initial  tolerability 
studies are not required. 
There are no studies investigating the pharmacokinetics of cladribine in special populations. However, 
15-18% of a subcutaneous dose of cladribine is eliminated unchanged in the urine, and the fate of the 
remaining 82-85% (assumed metabolised) has not been described. Since no guidance is available with 
respect to dose-adjustment, LITAK should be contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal 
impairment  (creatinine  clearance  ≤  50  ml/min)  and  with  moderate  to  severe  hepatic  impairment 
(Child-Pugh score ≥ 4) (see also Discussion on clinical safety). The contraindications and the lack of 
information  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  cladribine  in  special  populations  have  been  adequately 
reflected in the SPC.  
The applicant has not performed specific studies in patients with hepatic dysfunction and interaction 
studies  in  humans.  Because  cladribine  is  a  pro-drug  that  is  metabolised  intracellularly  following 
parenteral administration, subcutaneously administered cladribine is not likely to be primarily affected 
by  a  hepatic  first  pass  effect.  Given  the  conditions  of  normal  use  reflected  in  the  SPC,  namely  a 
contraindication  in  case  of  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  score 
≥ 4), additional studies on intrinsic and extrinsic factors are not required. 
Human pharmacodynamic studies 
The applicant has not conducted pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic studies in 
healthy subjects. This is in agreement with the CPMP Note for Guidance on Evaluation of Anticancer 
Medicinal  Products  in  Man  (CPMP/EWP/205/95  rev.  2),  and    additional  human  healthy  subjects 
pharmacokinetic  and  initial  tolerability  studies  are  not  required.  The  applicant  did  not  carry  out 
specific  patient  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  studies  with  LITAK. 
Several studies available in the literature have demonstrated the pharmacodynamic action correlated to 
the efficacy of cladribine following subcutaneous injection. The results are reported in sufficient detail 
to  enable  a  well-founded  and  scientifically  valid  characterisation  of  the  pharmacodynamic  action  of 
cladribine,  of  the  dose-response  and  provide  valid  justification  for  the  dosage  and  conditions  of 
administration,  and  allow  the  provision  of  adequate  information  in  the  SPC.  No  significant  new 
information would be expected from repeating clinical pharmacodynamic studies, and repeating such 
studies would be considered to be contrary to generally accepted principles of medical ethics. Given 
the present state of scientific knowledge, the bibliographical references provided by the applicant, and 
the  intended  condition  of  use  as  described  in  the  SPC,  additional  pharmacodynamic  studies  are  not 
considered necessary. 
A change in schedule to 5 days for subcutaneous formulation (as opposed to 7 days for the intravenous 
formulation) has been introduced. The argument for the change is that a subcutaneous treatment daily 
for  5  days (on  working days) will allow out-patient treatment  and thus be  more convenient both for 
patients and the treating team. The dosage regimen for subcutaneous administration of LITAK in HCL 
is 0.14 mg/kg body weight/day given on 5 consecutive days (total dosage per cycle 0.7 mg/kg). This is 
essentially  the  same  exposure  as that achieved following  7-days administration  by intravenous  route 
(administered at a dose of 0.09 mg/kg/day). 
20/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
No pharmacodynamic interaction studies have been conducted by the applicant and this is acceptable 
because  LITAK  is  indicated  as  monotherapy.  Nevertheless,  the  applicant  has  submitted  available 
experience from the literature with cladribine in combination with other cytotoxic agents in the form 
of bibliographic references. These studies have shown that haematotoxicity is higher when cladribine 
is  combined  with  other  anti-neoplastic  drugs  such  as  anthracyclines,  alkylating  agents,  platinum 
compounds  or  immunomodulatory  drugs.  Concomitant  use  with  other  myelosuppressive  medicinal 
products  is  therefore  contraindicated  and  this  is  adequately  reflected  in  sections  4.3  and  4.5  of  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Therefore, no pharmacodynamic interaction studies with LITAK 
are considered necessary either on pharmacological grounds or on grounds of the therapeutic use as a 
monotherapy. 
Conclusion on the clinical pharmacology 
Overall,  there  is  adequate  information  available  on  the  clinical  pharmacology  of  cladribine.  The 
available  published  studies  submitted  as  bibliographic  references  adequately  describe  the  results  of 
bioavailability,  pharmacokinetic  and  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  that  are  relevant  for  LITAK. 
Additional clinical pharmacology studies are unlikely to add any significant new knowledge about the 
clinical  pharmacology  of  LITAK,  and  are  therefore  not  considered  necessary.  Therefore,  the 
requirements in terms of clinical pharmacology documentation as set out in Directive 2001/83/EC, as 
amended, are considered fulfilled. 
Clinical Efficacy 
The first studies with LITAK were initiated by investigators at the University Hospital Insel, Berne in 
1992/3  and  from  1994  onward  co-ordinated  by  the  Swiss  Group  for  Clinical  Cancer  Research 
(SAKK).  
Main studies in hairy cell leukaemia 
There  were  two  trials  of  LITAK  that  included  a  significant  number  of  patients  with  HCL.  SAKK 
32/93  is  the  main  study  for  the  purpose  of  this  application.  SAKK  32/95  investigated  the  use  of 
cladribine  administered  as  a  subcutaneous  bolus  injection.  A  third  study  is  still  ongoing  (SAKK 
32/98). A summary of the clinical documentation for efficacy submitted is presented in Table 4. 
21/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Summary of the clinical trials 
Trial 
Treatment 
Days  Enrolled  Evaluate
PS 1 
PS 2 
0.1 mg/kg/day i.v. 
0.1 mg/kg/day s.c.  
SAKK 32/93  0.14 mg/kg/day s.c. 
SAKK 39/93  0.1 mg/kg/day i.v. 
or s.c.  
Pilot to 32/95  0.25 mg/kg s.c. 
SAKK 32/95  0.25 mg/kg s.c. 
7 
5 
5 
7 
1 
1 
Pilot to 37/95   0.1 mg/kg/day s.c.¶ 3 to 5
SAKK 37/95  0.1 mg/kg/d s.c.¶ 
3 or 5 
Pilot Study 3  0.14 mg/kg/day 
4 or 5 
s.c. + interleukin-2 
148 
165 
63 
40 
15 
59 
19 
23 
31 
d 
129 
150 
62 
37 
15 
59 
19 * 
21 ** 
Aggressive 
lymphoma 
Indolent  
lymphoma 
  HC
L 
NH
L
CLL  LL 
37 
22 
- 
3 § 
- 
- 
- 
- 
22 
- 
45 
68 
62 
- 
- 
34 
15 
59 
- 
- 
1 
- 
- 
7 
5 
18 
22 
38 
3 
22 
- 
- 
- 
- 
9 
16 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3 
- 
6 
31 
2 §§ 
TOTAL 
563 
523 
64 
159  177 
89 
34 
SAKK 32/98  0.14  mg/kg/wk  s.c.
vs.  
0.14 mg/kg/day s.c. 
5 wks 
ongoing  
65 ° 
5 days 
¶, cladribine in combination with cyclophosphamide and prednisone (CCP), pilot study: 3 days (cycles 
1 & 2), 4 days (cycles 3 & 4), 5 days (cycles 5 & 6), SAKK study: 5 days for previously untreated 
patients, 3 days for previously treated patients 
*, only 18/19 patients evaluable for analysis due to 1 early therapy withdrawal 
**, only 20/21 patients evaluable for analysis: 1 early therapy withdrawal 
°, status of patient enrolment end of May 2002 
§, 3/37 patients were classified for IWF D, which is graded as aggressive lymphoma (histological 
subtype: follicular grade III) according to the R.E.A.L. classification; §§, 2/31 patients with aggressive 
lymphoma; 1 follicular grade III (IWF D), 1 mantle cell lymphoma IWF F 
wk = week, d = day, HCL = hairy cell leukaemia, NHL = indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, CLL = 
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, LL = lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. 
Description of the studies 
The  response  criteria  for  HCL  patients  were  defined  according  to  the  Consensus  Resolution  (1987). 
Complete  remission  (CR)  was  defined  as  disappearance  of  all  evidence  of  disease,  i.e.  normal 
peripheral blood counts, absence of hairy cells in the peripheral blood and the bone marrow (TRAP 
negative), regression to normal of disease-related organomegaly. For partial remission (PR), all of the 
following criteria had to be met: > 50% improvement or normal peripheral blood counts, circulating 
hairy cells ≤ 5% of lymphocytes, > 50% reduction of bone marrow infiltration by hairy cells, > 50% 
reduction  of  palpable  disease-related  organomegaly. Time  to treatment  failure  (TTF) was  defined as 
the time between treatment start and progression, relapse, second tumour or death, whichever occurred 
first. 
SAKK 32/93 
SAKK  32/93 was  an  open-label,  prospective,  phase  II,  multicentre study and  involved  14 centres  in 
Switzerland, 3 centres in Germany and one in Austria (von Rohr, Schmitz et al., 2002). Patients with 
HCL,  including  the  prolymphocytic  variant,  either  newly  diagnosed  or  in  progression  following 
22/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
previous  treatment  (splenectomy,  IFN,  DCF)  were  included.  No  upper  age  limit  was  defined  as 
selection  criterion.  Renal  and  hepatic  impairment  were  exclusion  criteria.  Dose  and  treatment 
regimen: Cladribine was administered as a subcutaneous bolus injection daily for 5 days at a dose of 
0.14  mg/kg/day  (one  treatment  cycle).  An  evaluation  followed  on  day  29.  If  the  patient  had 
progressive disease he/she went directly to a new cycle, but now with i.v. treatment. All others were 
re-evaluated  at  day  71.  If  they  at  that  time  were  in  CR  or  PR  they  were  observed  without  further 
treatment.  If  the  day  71  evaluation  showed  no  response  they  went  on  to  a  “salvage”  second  cycle 
which  would  be  with  continuous  i.v.  infusion  0.1  mg/kg/d  for  7  days.  The  cycle  could  be  repeated 
once after 28 days. Cladribine was supplied  by Lipomed and the  dosage form was manufactured by 
the  pharmacy  at  the  University  Hospital  of  Berne  as  a  solution  of  2  mg  cladribine/ml  0.9%  sodium 
chloride.  All  patients  received  prophylactic  allopurinol  for  the  first  14  days  of  the  study. Objectives 
were  evaluation  of  efficacy  after  one  treatment  cycle  as  measured  by  remission  rate,  remission 
duration  and  time  to  treatment  failure.  Other  objectives  were  safety,  changes  in  the  lymphocyte 
populations,  response  rate  to  i.v.  salvage  therapy  (not  studied  due  to  low  number  of  patients)  and 
changes in TNF and sIL2R (not done due to economical problems). CR was defined as disappearance 
of all evidence of disease, normalisation of peripheral counts, absence of hairy cells and reversion of 
TRAP stain to negative. PR status required normalisation of peripheral blood, reduction of hairy cells 
to  less  than  5%  of  lymphocytes  and  more  than  50%  reduction  of  bone  marrow  infiltration  and  of 
palpable, disease related organomegaly. Duration of CR was measured from the moment CR was first 
recorded.  Duration  of  PR  was  measured  from  start  of  treatment  and  both  until  disease  progression. 
TTF was measured from start of treatment to progression, relapse, second tumour, discontinuation for 
toxicity or treatment-related death. 
SAKK 32/95 
SAKK  32/95  and  its  pilot  study  was  an  open-label,  prospective,  phase  II,  multicentre  study  and 
involved  8  centres  in  Switzerland  (Franscini,  Tobler  et  al.,  1997).  Cladribine  was  administered  as  a 
subcutaneous  bolus  injection  given  once  only  at  a  dose  of  0.25  mg/kg/day  (one  treatment  cycle)  to 
patients  with  HCL,  including  the  prolymphocytic  variant,  either  newly  diagnosed  or  in  progression 
following previous treatment (splenectomy, IFN, DCF). Dose and treatment regimen: Cladribine was 
administered  as  a  subcutaneous  bolus  injection  given  once  only  at  a  dose  of  0.25  mg/kg/day  (one 
treatment cycle). An evaluation followed on day 71. If the day 71 evaluation showed no response the 
patient went on to the second cycle which would be with s.c. injection of 0.14 mg/kg/d for 5 days. The 
cycle could be repeated once after 28 days. Cladribine was supplied by Lipomed and the dosage form 
was  manufactured  by  the  pharmacy  at  the  University  hospital  of  Berne  as  a  solution  of  2  mg 
cladribine/ml 0.9% sodium chloride. Objectives were evaluation of efficacy after one treatment cycle 
as  measured  by  remission  rate  and  remission  duration.  Other  objectives  were  safety,  changes  in  the 
lymphocyte populations, response rate to second cycle therapy. CR was defined as disappearance of 
all  evidence  of  disease,  normalisation  of  peripheral  counts,  absence  of  hairy  cells  and  reversion  of 
TRAP stain to negative. PR status required normalisation of peripheral blood, reduction of hairy cells 
to  less  than  5%  of  lymphocytes  and  more  than  50%  reduction  of  bone  marrow  infiltration  and  of 
palpable, disease related organomegaly. Duration of CR was measured from the moment CR was first 
recorded. Duration of PR was measured from start of treatment and both until disease progression. 
SAKK 32/98 
SAKK 32/98 is an ongoing open-label, prospective, phase III, multicentre study comparing cladribine 
given daily SC for 5 days with cladribine once weekly for 5 weeks in patients with newly diagnosed 
HCL including the prolymphocytic variant.  
The  only  phase  III  study  is  SAKK  study  32/98.  This  study  compares  daily  versus  weekly 
administration of cladribine in patients with HCL. Patients enrolled are those with HCL (classic and 
prolymphocytic variant), newly diagnosed or progressive disease after previous treatment. They are 
randomised to one of the two arms: 
23/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Arm A:  
Arm B:  
0.14 mg/kg/day x 5 days, bolus subcutaneously (1 cycle) 
0.14 mg/kg/week x 5 weeks, bolus subcutaneously (1 cycle) 
If no response 2nd cycle: 0.14 mg/kg/day x 5 days, bolus subcutaneously 
Dose and treatment regimen: Cladribine is administered as a subcutaneous bolus injection   at a dose 
of  0.14  mg/kg/day  and  by  randomisation  given  either  daily  for  5  days  only  or  once  weekly  for  5 
weeks. An evaluation follows on day 71.  If the day 71 evaluation shows no CR or PR the patient goes 
on to the second cycle with s.c. injection of 0.14 mg/kg/d for 5 days. In an amendment to the protocol 
of April 2001 the recommendation for the second cycle treatment has been changed from cladribine to 
rituximab (in a SAKK protocol). Cladribine is supplied by Lipomed and the dosage form is a solution 
of 2 mg cladribine/ml 0.9% sodium chloride. Objectives: Initially, the primary objective of this study 
was  to  compare  the  acute  haematotoxicity  of  the  two  regimens  using  white  blood  cell  (WBC)  and 
neutrophil  counts  as  endpoints.  Secondary  endpoints  included  acute  infection  rate,  response  rate, 
remission duration, relapse-free survival. In an amendment of April 2000 the only primary objective 
was  defined  as  changes  in  the  WBC  count.  CR  was  defined  as  disappearance  of  all  evidence  of 
disease,  normalisation  of  peripheral  counts,  absence  of  hairy  cells  and  reversion  of  TRAP  stain  to 
negative. PR status requires normalisation of peripheral blood, reduction of hairy cells to less than 5% 
of  lymphocytes  and  more  than  50%  reduction  of  bone  marrow  infiltration  and  of  palpable,  disease 
related organomegaly. Duration of CR is measured from the moment CR was first recorded. Duration 
of PR is measured from start of treatment and both until disease progression. With the amendment of 
April 2000 making WBC changes the only primary objective a total of 100 patients will be needed to 
detect a 50% reduction in the toxicity. The accrual rate is expected to be 30 patients/year. 
Results 
SAKK 32/93 
The study accrual period was 1993-1995. The number of  patients included was 63. One patient was 
not eligible due to a concomitant cancer and one was not evaluable due to start of IFN two weeks after 
therapy with 2-CdA. 61 patients were therefore eligible and evaluable. The median age was 54 years 
(range: 28-85, with 10 and 4 patients ≥ 68 and 75, respectively). 33 patients were newly diagnosed, 15 
had relapse after a previous treatment and 14 had progressive disease under a previous treatment other 
than 2-CdA. Only 2 patients had the prolymphocytic variant of the disease. 
None of the patients actually received the salvage i.v. therapy; in one patient who did not achieve a 
primary  CR  or  PR  no  further  therapy  was  given  due  to  medical  problems  unrelated  to  2-CdA.  One 
other patient who needed more than one treatment cycle received the sc. bolus by mistake. 
A  summary  of  the  clinical  efficacy  results  is  shown  in  Table  5.  The  efficacy  in  patients  who  were 
newly  diagnosed  (n=33)  was  comparable  to  that  in  patients  who  had  relapsed  or  were  refractory 
(n=30) to previous therapy. Most responses in the form of PR’s occurred early (i.e. within the first 10 
weeks),  but  the  response  quality  slowly  improved  and  the  PR’s  converted  to  CR’s  in  the  follow-up 
period. Only 3 patients received more than one treatment cycle. As seen below 60/62 patients or 97% 
achieved CR of PR, only 2 patients did not reach this status. 
Possible associations between patient characteristics/ baseline parameters and the achievement of CR 
were  examined  by  univariate  and  multivariate  analyses.  Only  normal  haemoglobin  was  associated 
with  a  higher  remission  and  among  patients  with  prior  therapy  females  had  a  lower  probability  to 
achieve CR. Pretreatment with splenectomy or interferon did not affect the response rate or TTF but 
patients receiving chemotherapy pretreatment only had a lower response rate and a shorter TTF. 
Median  time  to  treatment  failure  was  38  months.  The  failure-free  proportion  was  0.90  at  one  year, 
0.76 at 2 years and 0.65 at 3 years. The reasons for treatment failure in the 20 patients were: relapse 
after  CR  8  patients,  progression  after  PR  7,  secondary  tumours  3,  deaths  from  other  causes  2.  At  3 
years, 66% were still in remission. Median survival has not been reached. At one year, 97% were alive 
and 93% at two years. 
24/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Summary of clinical efficacy results for SAKK 32/93 (HCL) 
At 4 weeks  At 10 weeks 
Best response 
at any time 
47/62 (76%) 
7/62 (11%) 
13/62 (21%)  41/62 (66%)
60/62 (97%)  48/62 (77%)
38 months 
At any  
follow-up 
46/62 (74%) 
7/62 (11%) 
53/62 (86%) 
11/62 (18%) 
38/62 (61%) 
49/62 (79%) 
CR 
PR 
CR+PR 
TTF (median) 
SAKK 32/95 
The  results  are  based  on  a  report  on  the  preliminary  results  of  the  final  analysis  for  all  59  patients 
(report dated June 19, 2001). The study period was 1996 to1998. The number of patients entered was 
59. The median age was 56 years. Forty-three patients were newly diagnosed, 11 had relapse after a 
previous treatment and 5 had progressive disease under a previous treatment other than 2-CDA. Five 
patients  had the prolymphocytic  variant of the  disease. Thirty-one of59 patients received the second 
cycle, 3 patients received 3 cycles. Only 11/59 (19%) of the patients achieved CR or PR at day 71 (the 
corresponding  value  for  the  15  patients  in  the  pilot  study  32/95  was  27%).  Most  of  the  patients  not 
responding to the first bolus injection responded to the second cycle of therapy and the final CR+PR 
for  the  interim  population  of  the  SAKK  study  (n=46,  June  1998)  was  72%.  There  is  no  report  of 
remission duration or of survival. 
SAKK 32/98 
The  study  started  in  September  1998.  As  of  March  2002,  50  patients  had  entered  the  study.  No 
efficacy results are available. 
Historical control 
In published series mainly using 0.1 mg/kg/d cont. i.v. cladribine, for 7 days, totalling 1754 patients, 
the  pooled  response  rate  was  92%,  with  68%  achieving  a  complete  remission,  and  a  median  TTF 
above 36 months (Cheson, Sorensen et al. 1998; Estey, Kurzrock et al. 1992; Seymour, Kurzrock et al. 
1994;  Dann,  Gillis  et  al.  1994;  Piro,  Ellison  et  al.  1994;  Tallman,  Hakimian  et  al.  1996;  Hoffman, 
Janson et al. 1997; Lauria, Rondelli et al. 1997; Saven, Burian et al. 1998; Bastie, Cazals-Hatem et al. 
1999; Jehn, Bartl et al. 1999; Robak, Blasinska-Morawiec et al. 1999; Zinzani, Magagnoli et al. 2000). 
In a larger review of 54 published series, totalling 3294 (55% pre-treated) patients, the response rate 
was 93% with 72% complete remission after i.v. cladribine. 
In comparison to cladribine, deoxycoformycin  (Pentostatin) has  a response rate  of  63% -  97%,  with 
33% - 92% of CR (Jaiyesimi, Kantarjian et al. 1993, Annino, Ferrari et al. 1994; Brogden and Sorkin 
1993). IFN-α is also effective in the induction of remission in HCL, with a remission rate of 78% to 
100%,  although  complete  remissions  are  only  observed  in  0  -  40%  of  the  patients  (Damasio, 
Bernasconi et al. 1987; Federico, Frassoldati et al. 1994; Jaiyesimi, Kantarjian et al. 1993). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Elderly patients 
LITAK has not been specifically investigated in the elderly patients. 7 - 10% of the patients were older 
than 75 years of age in studies PS1, PS2 and SAKK 32/93. The age distribution of patients in studies 
PS1,  PS2  and  SAKK  32/93  was  similar  to  that  in  a  large  cohort  study  of  979  patients  studied  by 
Cheson et al (1999), which reported a lower response rate and survival were in patients ≥ 68 years of 
age. In the LITAK studies the efficacy was comparable in all age groups but numbers in the high age 
groups  were  small:  in  the  32/93  HCL  study  there  were  3  /4  responders  among  patients  75  years  or 
older. In PS1 5/9 were responders and in PS2 5/12. Thus 13/25 (52%) patients aged 75 years or more 
had complete or partial response. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Cladribine  is reported  to  be  highly  effective as  primary and  secondary  treatment  of  HCL  showing  a 
significant  benefit  with  regard  to  response  rate  and  response  duration  if  compared  to  alternative 
treatments, such as interferon-α. Although deoxycoformycin is also an effective drug for the treatment 
25/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of HCL, cladribine has been shown to be less toxic. In HCL a single cycle of 5 days with a total dose 
of  0.7  mg/kg  body  weight  is  sufficient  to  induce  a  durable  and  in  the  majority  of  cases  complete 
remission  with  tolerable  toxicity.  In  twelve  reported  series  totalling  1754  patients,  the  response  rate 
was 92%, with 68% achieving a complete remission. Relapsing patients usually respond to a second or 
third cycle of cladribine. Most clinicians consider cladribine as the standard for first and second line 
therapy. 
The  applicant  did  not  carry  out  randomised  controlled  trials  in  the  target  population.  However,  the 
results  of  the  uncontrolled  submitted  by  the  applicant  using  LITAK  have  shown  a  high  level  of 
efficacy  following  subcutaneous  administration  of  cladribine  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  HCL, 
and the efficacy of LITAK is similar to that reported in the literature following intravenous cladribine. 
Source data verifications of SAKK 32/93 and SAKK 32/95 revealed some minor protocol deviations 
with respect to entry criteria, some discrepancies between the hospital file and the CRF, some missing 
data,  misinterpretations  and adjustment of dates, all typical of  non-monitored trials but not affecting 
the main conclusions from the study.  
In  conclusion,  SAKK  32/93  showed  that  cladribine  at  the  recommended  subcutaneous  dose  of  0.14 
mg/kg body weight/day for 5 consecutive days has the same level of efficacy in patients with HCL as 
0.1 mg/kg/day administered by continuous intravenous infusion for 7 days. For HCL, the response rate 
of 97% with 76% CR and a long-lasting remission duration (73% at 4 years) observed for LITAK was 
comparable to  that  reported  for i.v.  cladribine, and  superior to that reported for interferon-alpha and 
pentostatin, which also shorter remission durations. In comparison to these agents, the efficacy results 
with  cladribine  are  clearly  outstanding.  SAKK  32/95  showed  that  low-dose  single-shot  cladribine 
leads to a significantly lower response-rate than standard 5-day schedules.  
Conclusion on the clinical efficacy 
The results of the uncontrolled clinical trials submitted by the applicant are sufficient to establish the 
clinical efficacy of LITAK in the proposed indication. Given the present state of scientific knowledge 
and  the  uncontrolled  clinical  documentation  provided,  additional  randomised  controlled  studies  to 
compare subcutaneous versus intravenous cladribine or other anticancer agents are unlikely to add any 
significant  new  knowledge  about  the  clinical  efficacy  profile  of  subcutaneous  cladribine  in  the 
treatment of hairy cell leukaemia, and are therefore considered unnecessary, and the requirements in 
terms  of  demonstration  of  clinical  efficacy  as  set  out  in  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  are 
considered fulfilled. 
Clinical safety  
Patient exposure 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
The  most important severe toxicity with cladribine was infection and haematological toxicity (Table 
6). All other toxicity was mild or absent and generally less pronounced than following treatment with 
other  types  of  chemotherapy.  The  haematological  changes  were  especially  neutropenia  during  the 
treatment  and  a  very  prolonged  lymphocytopenia  during  and  following  the  treatment,  factors  which 
both contribute to the high infection rate, which for the diseases treated, especially HCL and CLL, is 
an  inherent  characteristic  of  the  disease.  Late  complications  were  seen  in  all  studies.  In  the  341 
patients  in  PS  1,  PS  2  and  32/93  12  late  severe  AEs  occurred,  4  pneumonias,  6  sepsis  cases,  one 
Nocardia abscess and one Salmonella infection. 
Very common adverse reactions observed during the three most relevant clinical trials with LITAK in 
279  patients  treated  for  various  indications  and  in  62  patients  with  HCL  were  myelosuppression, 
especially  severe  neutropenia  (41%  (113/279),  98%  (HCL,  61/62)),  severe  thrombocytopenia  (21% 
(58/279),  50%  (HCL,  31/62)),  severe  anaemia  (14%  (21/150),  55%  (HCL,  34/62)),  severe 
immunosuppression/lymphopenia  (63%  (176/279),  95%  (HCL,  59/62)),  infections  (39%  (110/279), 
58% (HCL, 36/62)), and fever (up to 64%.) 
Culture-negative fever following treatment with cladribine occurs in 10-40% of patients with HCL and 
is  rarely  observed  in  patients  with  other  neoplastic  disorders.  Skin  rashes  (2  -  31%)  are  mainly 
described  in  patients  with  other  concomitant  medications  known  to  cause  rash  (antibiotics  and/or 
26/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
allopurinol). Gastrointestinal adverse events like nausea (5 - 28%), vomiting (1 - 13%), and diarrhoea 
(3  -  12%)  as  well  as  fatigue  (2  -  48%),  headache  (1  -  23%),  and  decreased  appetite  (1  -  22%)  have 
been  reported  during  treatment  with  cladribine.  LITAK  is  unlikely  to  cause  alopecia;  mild  and 
transient alopecia for a few days was observed in 4/523 patients during the treatment with LITAK, but 
could not clearly be associated with cladribine.  
Table 6: Infections and myelotoxicity in all studies with LITAK 
Trial 
Treatment 
Days 
PS 1 
PS 2 
0.1 mg/kg/day i.v.   
0.1 mg/kg/day s.c.  
SAKK 32/93  0.14 mg/kg/day s.c. 
SAKK 39/93  0.1 mg/kg/day i.v. or 
s.c.  
Pilot 
32/95 
to 
0.25 mg/kg s.c. 
SAKK 32/95  0.25 mg/kg s.c. 
7 
5 
5 
7 
1 
1 
Pilot 
37/95  
to 
0.1 mg/kg/day s.c. 
CCP ¶ 
3 to 5 
.
s
t
p
.
o
N
129 
150 
62 
37 
15 
59 
19 
)
.
s
t
p
%
(
E
A
% 
81 
39 
64 
78 
53 
47 
N/A 
SAKK 37/95  0.1 mg/kg/day s.c. 
3 or 5 
21 
87 
s
n
o
i
t
c
e
f
n
I
% 
50 
30 
58 
49 
°
-
o
h
p
m
y
L
a
i
n
e
p
o
t
y
c
% 
65 
61 
95 
97 
a
i
n
e
p
o
r
t
u
e
N
°
% 
53 
30 
98 
22 
40 
100 
80 
22 
58 
80 
70 
53* 
65 
71 
42 
80 
-
o
b
m
o
r
h
T
°
a
i
n
e
p
o
t
y
c
% 
26 
16 
50 
11 
13 
17 
5 
25 
CCP ¶ 
Pilot Study 3  0.14 mg/kg/day s.c. 
+ IL-2 
4 or 5 
31 
N/A 
26 
55* 
N/A 
6 
s
h
t
a
e
D
No. 
71 
48 
5 
7 
2 
3 
6 
8 
7 
TOTAL 
1-7 
523 
39-87  22-80 
44-
100 
22-98 
5-50 
157 
AE, adverse event; ¶ cladribine in combination with cyclophosphamide and prednisone (CCP), pilot 
study: 3 days (cycles 1 & 2), 4 days (cycles 3 & 4), 5 days (cycles 5 & 6), SAKK study: 5 days for 
previously untreated patients, 3 days for previously treated patients; N/A, not assessed 
*, only value for leukopenia available; °, WHO grade ≥ 3 
Adverse reactions that have been reported including information on frequency are listed in the table 7. 
The frequencies are defined as follows: Very common (>1/10), common (>1/100, <1/10), uncommon 
(>1/1,000, <1/100), rare (>1/10,000, <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) including isolated reports. 
27/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table 7: Adverse reactions that have been reported for LITAK 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms  benign,  malignant 
and unspecified 
Very common: infections  (e.g. pneumonia, septicaemia) 
Common: second malignancies  
Vascular disorders 
Immune system disorders 
and 
Metabolism 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
nutrition 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, 
mediastinal disorders 
thoracic 
and 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very common: pancytopenia/myelosuppression, purpura 
Common: petechiae, haemorrhages  
Very common: immunosuppression  
Uncommon: haemolytic anaemia  
Very rare: graft-versus-host disease, tumour lysis syndrome  
Very common: decreased appetite 
lethargy, 
Very common: headache, dizziness 
Common: insomnia, anxiety 
Uncommon:  somnolence,  paraesthesia,  weakness, 
polyneuropathy, confusion, ataxia 
Very rare: depression, epileptic seizure 
Uncommon: conjunctivitis 
Very rare: blepharitis  
Common:  tachycardia,  heart  murmur,  hypotension,  epistaxis, 
myocardial ischaemia * 
Very  common:  abnormal  breath  sounds,  abnormal  chest  sounds, 
cough 
Common:  shortness  of  breath,  pulmonary  interstitial  infiltrates 
mostly due to infectious aetiology, mucositis 
Uncommon: pharyngitis  
Very rare: lung embolism 
Very common: nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea 
Common: gastrointestinal pain, flatulence 
Common:  reversible,  mostly  mild  increases  in  bilirubin  and 
transaminases 
Very rare: cholecystitis  
Very common: rash, localised exanthema, diaphoresis 
Common: pruritus, skin pain, erythema, urticaria 
Uncommon: phlebitis 
Common: myalgia, arthralgia, arthritis, bone pain 
Very  common:  injection  site  reactions,  fever,  fatigue,  chills, 
asthenia 
Common: oedema, malaise, pain 
Uncommon: cachexia 
Very rare: amyloidosis  
Non-haematological adverse reactions were generally mild to moderate in severity.  
A  total  of  265  patients  received  s.c.  bolus  injections  in  studies  PS  2,  32/93  and  32/95.  16  reactions 
were reported in  591  cycles  of therapy, 12 were  mild,  3  moderate and  1 severe. The reactions were 
induration of the skin, rash, inflammation. Skin rash is also frequently observed after i.v. cladribine, in 
about 31%. Adverse reactions related to skin and subcutaneous tissue are mostly mild or moderate and 
transient, usually resolving within a cycle interval of 30 days. 
Serious adverse events like ileus, severe hepatic failure, renal failure, cardiac failure, atrial fibrillation, 
cardiac decompensation, apoplexy, neurological disturbances in speech and swallowing, tumour lysis 
syndrome  with  acute  renal  failure,  transfusion-related  graft-versus-host  disease,  Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome / Lyell syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis), haemolytic anaemia, hypereosinophilia (with 
erythematous skin rash, pruritus, and facial oedema) are rare. 
28/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Long-term immunosuppression is a concern associated with the use of cladribine. A detailed analysis 
of three clinical trials (PS1, PS2 and SAKK 32/93) has shown that there is no clear evidence that long-
lasting  lymphocytopenia  induced  by  LITAK  is  associated  with  any  serious  complications.  Despite  a 
recovery  time  of  up  to  2  years  of  T  cells,  only  2  (3.2%)  patients  in  SAKK  32/93  experienced  late 
infection. 
A total of  157  deaths in  523  patients were reported.  The  majority  of deaths related to the  medicinal 
product  are  due  to  infectious  complications.  Further  rare  cases  with  fatal  outcome,  reported  in 
association  with  LITAK  chemotherapy,  were  second  malignancy,  cerebro-  and  cardiovascular 
infarctions, graft-versus-host disease caused by multiple transfusions of non-irradiated blood, as well 
as tumour lysis syndrome with hyperuricaemia, metabolic acidosis, and acute renal failure. The most 
frequent causes of death were: disease progression (13%), pneumonia/sepsis (5.7%), progression and 
pneumonia/sepsis  (2.7%),  unknown  /  lost  to  follow-up  (2.1%),  second  malignancy  (1.0%)  and  other 
causes (< 1%). 
Secondary malignancies or transformations to higher malignancy grades were diagnosed in 17 patients 
(3%). All except 4 had received prior treatment. In 8 of the cases the time from cladribine treatment to 
the  diagnosis  of  the  second  neoplasm  was  6  months.  The  frequency  of  secondary  malignancy 
following treatment with LITAK was 3.4% in all 232 HCL patients treated during the past decade in 
one  of  the  Swiss  clinical  trials.  A  review  of  the  incidence  of  second  malignancy  in  various  HCL 
studies from 1970 onwards has been presented. In 9 studies with cladribine, secondary malignancies 
were observed ranging from 0% (N=23) (Zinzani, Magagnoli et al. 2003) to 9.5% (N=379) (Goodman, 
Burian et al. 2003), after a median follow up time of 8.5 and 7.0 years, respectively. In the four larger 
studies, observed/expected ratios (based on the U.S. National Cancer Institute SEER data) varied from 
1.22 (N=126, 95% CI: 0.4 to 2.7) (Kurzrock, Strom et al. 1997) to 1.50 (N=882, 95% CI: 1.14 to 1.93) 
(Cheson,  Vena  et  al.  1999),  1.88  (N=358,  95%  CI:  1.2  to  2.7)  (Saven,  Burian  et  al.  1988)  and  2.03 
(N=379, 95% CI: 1.5 to 2.7) (Goodman, Burian et al. 2003).  
In comparison, the frequency of secondary malignancies following deoxycoformycin in one study was 
6.9%  with  an  observed/expected  ratio  of  1.43  (N=337,  95%:  CI  0.93  to  2.10)  (Cheson,  Vena  et  al. 
1999),  in  another  4.2%  (N=24)  (Kraut,  Grever  et  al.  1994)  and  in  a  third  17.9%  (N=28)  (Johnston, 
Eisenhauer  et  al.  2000).  Interferon  alpha  treatment  in  4  studies  led  to  frequencies  of  8.2%  (N=97) 
(Troussard, Henry-Amar et al. 1994), 5.7% (N=53) (Smith, Longo et al. 1991), 3% (N=200) (Pawson, 
A'Hern  et  al.  1996)  and  2.9%  (N=35)  (Berman,  Heller  et  al.  1990),  while  in  one  study  as  many  as 
18.8%  (N=69)  patients  developed  secondary  malignancies  with  an  observed/expected  ratio  of  4.33 
(Kampmeier, Spielberger et al. 1994; Spielberger, Mick et al. 1994).  
Laboratory findings 
The  number  of  patients  analysed  for  laboratory  safety  was  low.  Mild  increase  in  creatinine, 
transaminases,  alkaline  phosphatase  and  bilirubin  have  been  observed  in  a  minority  of  patients.  A 
summary of biochemistry data in HCL has been provided. In study SAKK 32/93, three patients had a 
mild or moderate increase of creatinine levels. Mild transaminase elevation was observed in 5 patients. 
A mild elevation of alkaline phosphatase was observed in 5 patients, and a moderate elevation in one 
patient. Mild elevation of  bilirubin  was observed in  14  patients and  moderate  elevation in  1 patient. 
Similar results were observed for LDH.   
Safety in special populations 
The  experience  with  LITAK  in  patients  above  75  years  of  age  is  limited.  Apart  from  asymptomatic 
transient and mild elevation of creatinine or liver enzymes, no specific age-related complications were 
observed.  Among  11  deaths  in  this  population  3  were  possibly  related  to  treatment  (one  cardiac,  2 
infectious episodes).  
29/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety issues are dominated by infections and haematologic toxicity and a long-standing immune 
suppression, which is only accompanied by relatively few delayed infections and a rate of secondary 
neoplasias which does not seem increased compared to deoxycoformycin and interferon-alpha. Apart 
from  myelosuppression,  the  clinical  safety  profile  of  cladribine  is  unremarkable.  Like  a  number  of 
other anticancer drugs, it has a potential for neurotoxicity and possibly cardiac and renal toxicity.   
in 
During  the  first  month  following  treatment,  myelosuppression  is  most  notable  and  red  blood  cell  or 
platelet  transfusions  may  be  required.  Cladribine  also  induces  marked  and  prolonged  yet  transient 
reduction in the number of normal peripheral lymphocytes including T cells, B cells and natural killer 
lymphocyte  subpopulations  after  administration  of  LITAK 
(NK)  cells.  No  differences 
subcutaneously and by intravenous route were observed (data not shown). NK cells recover during the 
first 3-12 months, while B-cells and CD4 cells recover as late as 1-2 years or longer after treatment. 
An  increased  incidence  of  opportunistic  infections  is  expected  during,  and  for  6  months  following, 
therapy with cladribine. The association between a prolonged immune suppression and late occurring 
opportunistic infections remains an issue of debate. Several studies do not show a correlation, and this 
might  be  explained  by  the  relatively  rapid  recovery  of  NK  cells.  Other  studies  showed  that  pre-
existing immune suppression due to heavy prior treatment and concurrent therapy with corticosteroids 
may  be  important  factors  associated  with  late  occurring  opportunistic  infections.  Patients  with 
symptoms of bone marrow depression should be treated with caution since further suppression of bone 
marrow function should be anticipated.  
Therapeutic  risks  and  benefits  should  be  carefully  evaluated  in  patients  with  active  or  suspected 
infections.  The  risk  of  severe  myelotoxicity  and  long-lasting  immunosuppression  is  increased  in 
patients  with  a  disease-related  bone  marrow  infiltration  or  a  previous  myelosuppressive  treatment. 
Dose  reduction  and  regular  monitoring  of  the  patient  is  required  in  such  cases.  Pancytopenia  is 
normally reversible and the intensity of bone marrow aplasia is dose-dependent. Careful and regular 
monitoring of peripheral blood counts is essential during, and for 2 to 4 months following, treatment 
with  cladribine  to  detect  potential  adverse  reactions  and  consequent  complications  (anaemia, 
neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  infections,  haemolysis  or  bleedings),  and  to  survey  haematologic 
recovery. Fever of unknown origin frequently occurs in patients treated for hairy cell leukaemia, and is 
manifested predominantly during the first 4 weeks of therapy. The origin of febrile events should be 
investigated  by  appropriate  laboratory  and  radiologic  tests.  Less  than  a  third  of  febrile  events  are 
associated  with  a  documented  infection.  In  case  of  fever  related  to  infections  or  agranulocytosis,  an 
antibiotic treatment is indicated. Although anti-infective prophylaxis is not generally recommended, it 
may  be  beneficial  for  patients  immunocompromised  prior  to  therapy  with  cladribine  or  for  patients 
with  a  pre-existing  agranulocytosis.  These  warnings  and  special  precautions  for  use  are  adequately 
reflected in the SPC (4.4). The immunosuppression, the risk of long-term lymphocytopenias, and the 
risk of opportunistic infections with LITAK are adequately reflected in the SPC (4.8). 
Treatment  with  nucleoside  analogues  is  associated  with  the  occurrence  of  second  malignancies. 
Secondary malignancies are expected to occur in patients with hairy cell leukaemia. Their frequency 
varies  widely,  ranging  from  2%  to  21%.  The  peak  risk  is  at  2  years  after  diagnosis  with  a  median 
between  40  and  66  months.  The  cumulative  frequencies  of  second  malignancy  are  5%,  10-12%  and 
13-14% following 5, 10 and 15 years respectively after diagnosis of hairy cell leukaemia. Following 
cladribine, the incidence of second malignancies ranges from 0% to 9.5% after a median observation 
period of 2.8 to 8.5 years. The frequency of second malignancy following treatment with LITAK was 
3.4% in all 232 hairy cell leukaemia patients treated during a 10-year period. The highest incidence of 
second malignancy with LITAK was 6.5% after a median follow up of time of 8.4 years. There was no 
evidence  that  cladribine-treated  patients  have  a  higher  frequency  of  secondary  malignancies  than 
patients  treated  with  alpha-interferon  or  deoxycoformycin.  However,  the  incidence  of  secondary 
malignancies was significantly higher compared to the general population. Therefore, patients treated 
with  cladribine  should  be  regularly  monitored.  Warnings  about  secondary  malignancies  and  regular 
monitoring as a precaution are adequately reflected in the SPC (4.4). The applicant has also committed 
to provide the CPMP with an annual follow-up report on second malignancies in SAKK studies pilot 
1, 32/93, 32/95 and 32/98.  
In patients with a high tumour burden, prophylactic allopurinol therapy to control serum levels of uric 
acid, together with adequate or increased hydration, should be commenced 24 hours before the start of 
30/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
chemotherapy. A daily oral dose of 100 mg of allopurinol is recommended for a period of 2 weeks. In 
case of an accumulation of the serum uric acid above the normal range, the dose of allopurinol may be 
increased to 300 mg/day. These precautions are adequately reflected in the SPC (4.4). 
LITAK has not been specifically investigated in the elderly patients. Since the experience with LITAK 
in  those  above  75  years  is  limited,  caution  and  regular  monitoring  of  blood  counts  and  hepatic  and 
renal  function  are  recommended  when  treating  patients  who  are  more  than  75  years  old.  This  is 
adequately reflected in the SPC (4.2). 
There  is  concern  on  the  safety  of  LITAK  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  dysfunctions  (see  also 
Discussion on human pharmacokinetic studies). There were 3 cases of renal failure, 5 of severe liver 
injury, 3 of mild elevation in serum creatinine and 12 with increases in serum transaminases. Although 
there are other explanations for some of these such as pre-existing disorders or tumour lysis syndrome, 
there  still  remains  concern  on  the  safety  of  LITAK  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  dysfunctions. 
Since no guidance is provided with respect to dose-adjustment, LITAK is contraindicated in patients 
with  moderate  to  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  ≤  50  ml/min)  and  with  moderate  to 
severe  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  score  ≥  4).  Adequate  information  has  been  included  in  the 
SPC (4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).  
No interaction studies have been carried out and since the haematotoxicity is higher when cladribine is 
combined  with  other  anti-neoplastic  drugs  such  as  anthracyclines,  alkylating  agents,  platinum 
compounds  or  immunomodulatory  drugs,  LITAK  should  not  be  used  concomitantly  with  other 
myelosuppressive medicinal products. LITAK has therefore been contraindicated for concomitant use 
with  other  myelosuppressive  medicinal  products,  and  the  information  is  adequately  reflected  in  the 
SPC (4.3, 4.5). 
Conclusion on the clinical safety 
The  documentation  submitted  by  the  applicant  is  considered  sufficient  to  establish  the  safety  of 
LITAK  in  the  proposed  indication,  and  the  implications  of  the  toxicity  profile  of  LITAK  are 
adequately  reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  The  applicant  has  committed  to 
conduct  a  prospective  long-term  screening  for  secondary  malignancies.  Besides  the  screening  for 
secondary  malignancies,  additional  studies  to  further  characterise  the  safety  profile  of  cladribine  are 
not considered necessary. Overall, the requirements in terms of demonstration of clinical safety as set 
out in Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, are considered fulfilled. 
5 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance of the product. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
31/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Cladribine  is  preferentially  concentrated  in  lymphocytes  by  conversion  to  its  active  metabolite  2-
CdATP. Cladribine is toxic to hematopoietic cells, especially to lymphoid and various malignant cells. 
It  acts  in  similar  doses  on  proliferating  and  resting  cells  and  has  no  effect  on  non-haematopoietic 
tissues  and  limited  activity  in  solid  tumours.  The  results  of  published  pharmacological  and 
toxicological  tests  have  shown  the  potential  toxicity  of  LITAK,  undesirable  toxic  effects  that  might 
occur  under  the  proposed  conditions  of  use,  and  its  pharmacological  properties.  Overall,  it  can  be 
concluded that  the information  on the  pharmacology and toxicology of  cladribine  is  comprehensive, 
that the level of safety is well documented and is acceptable for its proposed use. Based on the similar 
bioavailability  after 
the  pharmacological  and 
toxicological data published in the scientific literature are relevant for the proposed product LITAK, 
and  cover  all  aspects  of  the  safety  assessment.  The  essential  data  derived  from  pre-clinical  studies, 
which  pertain  to  human  risk,  have  been  incorporated  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics. 
Additional non-clinical pharmacology or toxicological studies are not necessary, and the requirements 
in terms of pharmacological and toxicological documentation as  set out in Directive 2001/83/EC, as 
amended, are considered fulfilled. 
intravenous  and  subcutaneous  administration, 
Efficacy 
The formulation of LITAK, 10 mg cladribine in 5 ml physiological sodium chloride solution, enables 
a 5-day regimen of subcutaneous bolus injection that is therapeutically similar to the standard 7-day 
continuous intravenous infusion regimen. Concerning the clinical pharmacology, there is adequate and 
comprehensive  information  available,  and  this  is  based  largely  on  the  published  results  of  relevant 
studies  available  as  bibliographical  references,  rather  than  studies  conducted  by  the  applicant.  It  is 
acknowledged, however, that it would be contrary to generally accepted principles of medical ethics to 
repeat  such  clinical  trials  in  patients.  Additional  clinical  pharmacology  studies  are  therefore  not 
considered necessary. 
The results of the uncontrolled clinical trials submitted by the applicant are sufficient to establish the 
clinical efficacy of LITAK in the proposed indication. The SAKK studies using LITAK have shown a 
high efficacy of subcutaneous administration of cladribine in the treatment of patients with HCL, and 
the efficacy of LITAK is similar to that reported in the literature for intravenous cladribine. Based on 
the  clinical  documentation  submitted,  and  the  extensive  clinical  experience  with  cladribine,  further 
clinical studies to demonstrate the efficacy of subcutaneous cladribine in the proposed indication are 
not considered necessary. The requirements in terms of demonstration of clinical efficacy as set out in 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, are considered fulfilled. 
Safety 
toxicity  with  cladribine 
is  a  high  frequency  of  myelosuppression,  prolonged 
The  main 
lymphocytopenia and immune suppression and an increased infection rate including late occurring and 
opportunistic infections. Other toxicity has generally been mild. The subcutaneous administration by 
bolus injection was well tolerated and local reactions to the s.c. injection was reported in less than 3% 
of the cycles. The incidence of secondary neoplasias with cladribine was not higher than that observed 
for other agents, yet it is higher than expected in the general population, so that monitoring and annual 
reporting of secondary neoplasias as a follow-up measure are required. Otherwise, additional clinical 
studies to further characterise the safety profile of cladribine are not considered necessary. Overall, the 
requirements  in  terms  of  demonstration  of  clinical  safety  as  set  out  in  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as 
amended, are considered fulfilled. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The overall response rates and remission duration observed in the clinical trials using LITAK in newly 
diagnosed  and  in  pre-treated  patients  with  HCL  are  comparable  with  the  results  described  in  the 
literature  for  intravenous  cladribine.  Further,  the  data  show  that  LITAK  at  the  recommended 
subcutaneous  dose  of  0.14  mg/kg  body  weight/day  for  5  consecutive  days  has  a  similar  level  of 
efficacy in patients with HCL as 0.1 mg/kg/day administered by continuous intravenous infusion for 7 
days. The 5-day subcutaneous schedule that is proposed for LITAK may be more convenient than the 
7-day  intravenous  regimen.  The  main  toxicity  of  cladribine  is  haematological  whilst  other  types  of 
toxicities have generally been mild. In conclusion LITAK administered s.c. has a positive benefit/risk 
ratio in the treatment of patients with HCL. 
32/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  LITAK  in  the  treatment  of  hairy  cell  leukaemia  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
33/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
I 
References 
Anonymous. Consensus resolution: Proposed criteria for evaluation of response to treatment in hairy 
cell leukemia. Leukemia 1987;1:405. 
Albertioni  F,  Herngren  L,  Juliusson  G,  Liliemark  J.  Protein  binding  of  2-chloro  2'-deoxyadenosine 
(cladribine)  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients  with  leukemia.  Eur  J  Clin  Pharmacol 
1994;46(6):563-4. 
Albertioni, F., M. Hassan, et al. (1995). "Kinetics and metabolism of 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine and 
2-chloro-2'-arabino-fluoro-2'-deoxyadenosine  in  the  isolated  perfused  rat  liver."  Eur  J  Drug 
Metab Pharmacokinet 20(3): 225-32. 
Annino  L,  Ferrari  A,  Giona  F,  Cimino  G,  Crescenzi  S,  Cava  MC,  et  al.  Deoxycoformycin  induces 
long-lasting  remissions  in  hairy  cell  leukemia:  clinical  and  biological  results  of  two  different 
regimens. Leuk Lymphoma 1994;14(Suppl 1):115-9. 
Au,  W.  Y.,  R.  J.  Klasa,  et  al.  (1998).  "Second  malignancies  in  patients  with  hairy  cell  leukemia  in 
british columbia: a 20-year experience." Blood 92(4): 1160-4. 
Avery TL, Rehg JE, Lumm WC, Harwood FC, Santana VM, Blakley RL. Biochemical pharmacology 
of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  in  malignant  human  hematopoietic  cell  lines  and  therapeutic  effects 
of 2- bromodeoxyadenosine in drug combinations in mice. Cancer Res 1989;49(18):4972-8. 
Ballarino P, Castello G, Lerza R, Cerruti A, Bogliolo G, Pannacciulli I. In vitro activity on myeloid 
progenitors of a combination of 2-chloro- 2'-deoxyadenosine and interferon alpha: the effects of 
IL-1 and GM-CSF. Leuk Res 1996;20(9):777-80. 
Barbieri D, Abbracchio MP, Salvioli S, Monti D, Cossarizza A, Ceruti S, et al. Apoptosis by 2-chloro-
2'-deoxy-adenosine  and  2-chloro-adenosine  in  human  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells. 
Neurochem Int 1998;32(5-6):493-504. 
Barbieri D, Franceschi C, Camaioni E, Costanzi S, Vittori S, Volpini R, et al. Modulation of apoptosis 
in  human  lymphocytes  by    adenosine  analogues.  Bioorganic  &  Medicinal  Chemistry  Letters 
1998;8:2533-38. 
Bastie,  J.  N.,  D.  Cazals-Hatem,  et  al.  (1999).  "Five  years  follow-up  after  2-chloro  deoxyadenosine 
treatment in thirty patients with hairy cell leukemia: evaluation of minimal residual disease and 
CD4+ lymphocytopenia after treatment." Leuk Lymphoma 35(5-6): 555-65. 
Begleiter  A,  Wang  H,  Verburg  L,  Lee  K,  Israels  LG,  Mowat  MR,  et  al.  In  vitro  cytotoxicity  of  2-
leukemia.  Leukemia 
lymphocytic 
in  chronic 
chlorodeoxyadenosine  and  chlorambucil 
1996;10(12):1959-65. 
Beksac,  M.,  M.  Arat,  et  al.  (1999).  "Long  term  follow-up  and  late  complications  of  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine  in  previously  treated,  advanced,  indolent  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma." 
Cancer 85(1): 242-3. 
Bengio,  R.,  M.  Perez,  et  al.  (1996).  "Tratemiento  de  la  leucemia  de  células  vellosas  con  2-
Clorodeoxiadenosina  y  G-CSF.  [Treatment  of  hair  cell  leukemia  with  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine 
and G-CSF (letter)]." Medicina (B Aires) 56(5): 534. 
Berman, E., G. Heller, et al. (1990). "Incidence of response and long-term follow-up in patients with 
hairy cell leukemia treated with recombinant interferon alfa-2a." Blood 75(4): 839-45.  
Bernstein, L., P. Newton, et al. (1990). "Epidemiology of hairy cell leukemia in Los Angeles County." 
Cancer Res 50(12): 3605-9. 
Betticher, D. C., M. F. Fey, et al. (1992). "2-Chlorodeoxyadenosin (2-CDA) -  ein neues Zytostatikum 
zur  Behandlung  von  hämatologischen  Neoplasien?  Die  präliminären  Resultate  der  2-CDA 
Pilotstudie." Schweiz Krebs-Bulletin 12: 139-43. 
Betticher  DC,  Zucca  E,  von  Rohr  A,  Egger  T,  Radford  JA,  Ambrosetti  A,  et  al.  2-
Chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CDA) therapy in previously untreated patients with follicular stage III-
IV non-Hodgkin's lymphoma [see comments]. Ann Oncol 1996;7(8):793-9. 
Betticher, D. C., S. F. Hsu Schmitz, et al. (1997). "Cladribine (2-CDA) given as subcutaneous bolus 
injections  is  active  in  pretreated  Waldenstrom's  macroglobulinaemia.  Swiss  Group  for  Clinical 
Cancer Research (SAKK)." Br J Haematol 99(2): 358-63. 
Beutler,  E.,  R.  McMillan,  et  al.  (1997).  Development  of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  (2-CDA)  as  a 
chemotherapeutic  and  immunosuppressive  drug.  Nucleoside  analogs  in  cancer  therapy.  B.  D. 
Cheson, M. J. Keating and W. Plunkett. New York, Marcel Dekker Inc.: 159-172. 
34/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Brogden,  R.  N.  and  E.  M.  Sorkin  (1993).  "Pentostatin.  A  review  of  its  pharmacodynamic  and 
pharmacokinetic  properties,  and  therapeutic  potential  in  lymphoproliferative  disorders."  Drugs 
46(4): 652-77. 
Carrera CJ, Yamanaka H, Piro LD, Lotz M, Carson DA. Profound toxicity of deoxyadenosine and 2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine  toward  human  monocytes  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  Adv  Exp  Med  Biol 
1989:219-25. 
Carson,  D.  A.,  D.  B.  Wasson,  et  al.  (1980).  "Deoxycytidine  kinase-mediated  toxicity  of 
deoxyadenosine  analogs  toward  malignant  human  lymphoblasts  in  vitro  and  toward  murine 
L1210 leukemia in vivo." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 77(11): 6865-9.  
Carson,  D.  A.,  D.  B.  Wasson,  et  al.  (1982).  "A  potent  new  anti-lymphocyte  agent:  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine (Meeting abstract)." Blood 60(Suppl. 1): 160a. 
Carson,  D.  A.,  D.  B.  Wasson,  et  al.  (1983).  "Specific  toxicity  of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  toward 
resting and proliferating human lymphocytes." Blood 62(4): 737-43. 
Carson,  D.  A.,  D.  B.  Wasson,  et  al.  (1984).  "Antileukemic  and  immunosuppressive  activity  of  2-
chloro-2'- deoxyadenosine." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 81(7): 2232-6. 
Carson DA. (2002) Report on Single and Repeated Dose Toxicity Studies with 2-CDA, May 2002 
Cheson, B. D., D. A. Vena, et al. (1991). "Current status of U.S. clinical trials in chronic lymphocytic 
leukemias." Leuk Lymph 5: suppl 119-22. 
Cheson, B. D., D. A. Vena, et al. (1999). "Second malignancies as a consequence of nucleoside analog 
therapy for chronic lymphoid leukemias." J Clin Oncol 17(8): 2454-60.  
Cheson,  B.  D.,  J.  M.  Sorensen,  et  al.  (1998).  "Treatment  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  with  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine  via  the  Group  C  protocol  mechanism  of  the  National  Cancer  Institute:  a 
report of 979 patients." J Clin Oncol 16(9): 3007-15. 
Cory JG, Nelson TO, Somerville L, Cory AH. Alterations in the properties of mouse leukemia L1210 
cell  lines  selected  by  different  methods  for  resistance  to  deoxyguanosine.  Adv  Enzyme  Regul 
1997;37:3-16. 
Damasio,  E.  E.,  C.  Bernasconi,  et  al.  (1987).  "Human  lymphoblastoid  interferon  for  hairy  cell 
leukemia: results from the Italian Cooperative Group." Leukemia 1(4): 331-3. 
Damasio,  E.  E.,  L.  Resegotti,  et  al.  (1998).  "Five  day  intermittent  vs  seven  day  continuous  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine infusion for the treatment of hairy cell leukemia. A study by Italian Group 
for the Hairy Cell Leukemia." Recenti Prog Med 89(2): 68-73. 
Dann, E. J., S. Gillis, et al. (1994). "Hairy cell leukemia: results of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine therapy in 
Jerusalem." Leuk Lymphoma 14(Suppl 1): 127-31. 
Dearden, C. E., E. Matutes, et al. (1999). "Long-term follow-up of patients with hairy cell leukaemia 
after treatment with pentostatin or cladribine." Br J Haematol 106(2): 515-9. 
Delannoy,  A.,  A.  Ferrant,  et  al.  (1994).  "2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine  therapy  in  advanced  chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia." Nouv Rev Fr Hematol 36(4): 311-5. 
Depenbrock  H,  Wenger  M,  Peter  R,  Fellbaum  C,  Block  T,  Rastetter  J,  et  al.  Investigation  of  the 
comparative  effects  of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  on  tumor  colony  forming  units  in  vitro.  Invest 
New Drugs 1995;13(2):117-23. 
di Celle, P. F., G. Reato, et al. (1994). "Molecular evaluation of clonal remission in hairy cell leukemia 
patients treated with 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine." Leuk Lymphoma 14(Suppl 1): 139-42. 
Estey,  E.  H.,  R.  Kurzrock,  et  al.  (1992).  "Treatment  of  hairy  cell 
leukemia  with  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA)." Blood 79(4): 882-7. 
Federico, M., A. Frassoldati, et al. (1994). "Long-term results of alpha interferon as initial therapy and 
splenectomy as consolidation therapy in patients with hairy cell leukemia. Final report from the 
Italian Cooperative Group for HCL." Ann Oncol 5(8): 725-31. 
Filleul, B., A. Delannoy, et al. (1994). "A single course of 2-chloro-deoxyadenosine does not eradicate 
leukemic cells in hairy cell leukemia patients in complete remission." Leukemia 8(7): 1153-6. 
Franscini,  L.,  A.  Tobler,  et  al.  (1997).  ""Low  dose  single  shot"  2-Chlorodeoxyadenosin  (CDA)  bei 
Patienten  (Pat.)  mit  Haarzell-Leukämie  (HCL):  Eine  multizentrische  Phase  II-Studie  (SAKK 
32/95) (Meeting abstract)." Schweiz Med Wochenschr 127 (Suppl. 88): 55S a. 
Gandhi  V,  Estey  E,  Keating  MJ,  Chucrallah  A,  Plunkett  W.  (1996).  Chlorodeoxyadenosine  and 
leukemia:  pharmacokinetic, 
arabinosylcytosine 
pharmacodynamic, and molecular interactions. Blood 87(1):256-64 
in  patients  with  acute  myelogenous 
35/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Genini  D,  Adachi  S,  Chao  Q,  Rose  DW,  Carrera  CJ,  Cottam  HB,  et  al.  Deoxyadenosine  analogs 
induce programmed cell death in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells by damaging the DNA and 
by directly affecting the mitochondria. Blood 2000;96(10):3537-43. 
Genini D, Budihardjo I, Plunkett W, Wang X, Carrera CJ, Cottam HB, et al. Nucleotide requirements 
for the in vitro activation of the apoptosis protein-activating factor-1-mediated caspase pathway. J 
Biol Chem 2000;275(1):29-34. 
Godlewski  MM,  Motyl  MA,  Gajkowska  B,  Wareski  P,  Koronkiewicz  M,  Motyl  T.  Subcellular 
redistribution  of  BAX  during  apoptosis  induced  by  anticancer  drugs.  Anti-Cancer  Drugs 
2001;12:607-617. 
Goodman,  G.  R.,  C.  Burian,  et  al.  (2003).  "Extended  follow-up  of  patients  with  hairy  cell  leukemia 
after treatment with cladribine." J Clin Oncol 21(5): 891-6. 
Griffig  J,  Koob  R,  Blakley  RL.  Mechanisms  of 
inhibition  of  DNA  synthesis  by  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine in human lymphoblastic cells. Cancer Res 1989;49(24 Pt 1):6923-8. 
Hentosh  P,  Tibudan  M.  2-Chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine,  an  antileukemic  drug,  has  an  early  effect  on 
cellular mitochondrial function. Mol Pharmacol 1997;51(4):613-9. 
Hickish,  T.,  P.  Serafinowski,  et  al.  (1993).  "2'-Chlorodeoxyadenosine:  evaluation  of  a  novel 
predominantly lymphocyte selective agent in lymphoid malignancies." Br J Cancer 67(1): 139-43. 
Hirota  Y,  Yoshioka  A,  Tanaka  S,  Watanabe  K,  Otani  T,  Minowada  J,  et  al.  Imbalance  of 
deoxyribonucleoside  triphosphates,  DNA  double-strand  breaks,  and  cell  death  caused  by  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine in mouse FM3A cells. Cancer Res 1989;49(4):915-9. 
Hoffman, M. A., D. Janson, et al. (1997). "Treatment of hairy-cell leukemia with cladribine: response, 
toxicity, and long-term follow-up." J Clin Oncol 15(3): 1138-42. 
Huang  MC,  Ashmun  RA,  Avery  TL,  Kuehl  M,  Blakley  RL.  Effects  of  cytotoxicity  of  2-chloro-2'-
deoxyadenosine and 2-bromo-2'- deoxyadenosine on cell growth, clonogenicity, DNA synthesis, 
and cell cycle kinetics. Cancer Res 1986;46(5):2362-8. 
Hutton JJ, Von Hoff DD. Cytotoxicity of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in a human tumor colony-forming 
assay. Cancer Drug Deliv 1986;3(2):115-22 
Jaffe,  E. S.,  N. L.  Harris, et al. (2001).  "World  Health Organization classification of  tumours  of the 
hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues." IARCPress, Lyon, 351 pp. 
Jaiyesimi,  I.  A.,  H.  M.  Kantarjian,  et  al.  (1993).  "Advances  in  therapy  for  hairy  cell  leukemia.  A 
review." Cancer 72(1): 5-16. 
Jehn,  U.,  R.  Bartl,  et  al.  (1999).  "Long-term  outcome  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  treated  with  2- 
chlorodeoxyadenosine." Ann Hematol 78(3): 139-44. 
Jehn, U., M. Gawaz, et al. (1993). "Successful treatment of patients with hairy cell leukemia (HCL) 
using a single cycle of 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA)." Anticancer Res 13(5C): 1809-14. 
Johnston,  J.  B.,  E.  Eisenhauer,  et  al.  (2000).  "Long-term  outcome  following  treatment  of  hairy  cell 
leukemia with pentostatin (Nipent): a National Cancer Institute of Canada study." Semin Oncol 
27(2 Suppl 5): 32-6. 
Juliusson, G., A. Elmhorn-Rosenborg, et al. (1992). "Response to 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in patients 
with  B-cell  chronic  lymphocytic  leukemia  resistant  to  fludarabine  [see  comments]."  N  Engl  J 
Med 327(15): 1056-61. 
Juliusson,  G.,  D.  Heldal,  et  al.  (1995).  "Subcutaneous  injections  of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  for 
symptomatic hairy cell leukemia." J Clin Oncol 13(4): 989-95. 
Juliusson,  G.,  R.  Lenkei,  et  al.  (1995).  "Neutropenic  fever  following  cladribine  therapy  for 
symptomatic  hairy-  cell  leukemia:  predictive  factors  and  effects  of  granulocyte-macrophage 
colony-stimulating factor." Ann Oncol 6(4): 371-5. 
Juliusson,  G.  and  J.  Liliemark  (1992).  "Rapid  recovery  from  cytopenia  in  hairy  cell  leukemia  after 
treatment  with  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  (CdA):  relation  to  opportunistic  infections."  Blood 
79(4): 888-94. 
Juliusson,  G.  and  J.  Liliemark  (1993).  "High  complete  remission  rate  from  2-chloro-2'-
deoxyadenosine  in  previously  treated  patients  with  B-cell  chronic  lymphocytic  leukemia: 
response predicted by rapid decrease of blood lymphocyte count." J Clin Oncol 11(4): 679-89. 
Kampmeier,  P.,  R.  Spielberger,  et  al.  (1994).  "Increased  incidence  of  second  neoplasms  in  patients 
treated with interferon alpha 2b for hairy cell leukemia: a clinicopathologic assessment." Blood 
83(10): 2931-8. 
36/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Knudsen  TB,  Nguyen  D,  Wubah  JA,  Razmara  M,  Kimmel  CA,  Kimmel  GL,  et  al.  Cross-species 
comparison  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  2-CDA  pharmacokinetics  in  pregnant  mouse  and  rat 
(Meeting abstract). Teratology 1997;55(1):69-70a (P50). 
Kobayashi  K,  Vogelzang  NJ,  O'Brien  SM,  Schilsky  RL,  Vokes  EE,  Ratain  MJ.  A  phase  I  study  of 
intermittent infusion cladribine in patients with solid tumors. Cancer 1994;74(1):168-73. 
Konwalinka,  G.,  M.  Schirmer,  et  al.  (1995).  "Minimal  residual  disease  in  hairy-cell  leukemia  after 
treatment with 2- chlorodeoxyadenosine." Blood Cells Mol Dis 21(2): 142-51. 
Kraut, E. H., M. R. Grever, et al. (1994). "Long-term follow-up of patients with hairy cell leukemia 
after treatment with 2'-deoxycoformycin." Blood 84(12): 4061-3. 
Kristinsson,  S.  Y.,  B.  Vidarsson,  et  al.  (2002).  "Epidemiology  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  in  Iceland." 
Hematol J 3(3): 145-7. 
Kurzrock,  R., S. S. Strom, et al. (1997). "Second  cancer risk in hairy cell leukemia: analysis of 350 
patients." J Clin Oncol 15(5): 1803-10. 
Kuwabara M, Tanabe K, Hiraoka W,  Tamura Y, Sato F, Matsuda A, et al. 2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine 
inhibits the repair of DNA double-strand breaks and does not inhibit the repair of DNA single-
strand breaks in X- irradiated Chinese hamster V79 cells. Chem Biol Interact 1991;79(3):349-58. 
Larson RA, Mick R, Spielberger RT, O'Brien SM, Ratain MJ. Dose-escalation trial of cladribine using 
five  daily  intravenous  infusions  in  patients  with  advanced  hematologic  malignancies.  J  Clin 
Oncol 1996;14(1):188-95. 
Lauria, F., D. Benfenati, et al. (1994). "Retreatment with 2-CdA of progressed HCL patients." Leuk 
Lymphoma 14(Suppl 1): 143-5. 
Lauria,  F.,  D.  Rondelli,  et  al.  (1997).  "Long-lasting  complete  remission  in  patients  with  hairy  cell 
leukemia treated with 2-CdA: a 5-year survey." Leukemia 11(5): 629-32. 
Legrand,  O.,  A.  Vekhoff,  et  al.  (1997).  "Treatment  of  hairy  cell  leukaemia  (HCL)  with  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine (2- CdA): identification of parameters predictive of adverse effects." Br J 
Haematol 99(1): 165-7. 
Leoni LM, Chao Q, Cottam HB, Genini D, Rosenbach M, Carrera CJ, et al. Induction of an apoptotic 
program  in  cell-free  extracts  by  2-chloro-2'-  deoxyadenosine  5'-triphosphate  and  cytochrome  c. 
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1998;95(16):9567-71. 
Liliemark, J., F. Albertioni, et al. (1992). "On the bioavailability of oral and subcutaneous 2-chloro-2'- 
deoxyadenosine  in  humans:  alternative  routes  of  administration[see  comments]."  J  Clin  Oncol 
10(10): 1514-8. 
Liliemark,  J.  and  G.  Juliusson  (1991).  "On  the  pharmacokinetics  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  in 
humans." Cancer Res 51(20): 5570-2. 
Liliemark, J. and G. Juliusson (1992). "On the pharmacokinetics of 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA) 
in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (Meeting abstract)." Blood 80 (Suppl. 1): 471a. 
Liliemark  J,  Juliusson  G.  2-Chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine--clinical,  biochemical  and  pharmacokinetic 
considerations. Arch Immunol Ther Exp 1994;42(1):7-10. 
Liliemark  J,  Juliusson  G.  Cellular  pharmacokinetics  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  nucleotides: 
comparison  of  intermittent  and  continuous  intravenous  infusion  and  subcutaneous  and  oral 
administration in leukemia patients. Clin Cancer Res 1995;1:385-90. 
Meunier,  P.,  S.  Castaigne,  et  al.  (1996).  "Cutaneous  reactions  after 
chlorodeoxyadenosine [see comments]." Acta Derm Venereol 76(5): 385-6. 
treatment  with  2-
Mitala  JJ,  Hoberman  AM,  Thompson  EW,  Oldham  JW.  Developmental  toxicity  of  2-chloro-2'-
deoxyadenosine (2-CDA, cladribine).  Teratology 1996;53(2):116a (P51). 
Mohammad RM, Katato K, Almatchy VP, Wall N, Liu KZ, Schultz CP, et al. Sequential treatment of 
human  chronic  lymphocytic  leukemia  with  bryostatin  1  followed  by  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine: 
preclinical studies. Clin Cancer Res 1998;4(2):445-53. 
Nagourney RA, Evans SS, Messenger JC, Su YZ,  Weisenthal LM. 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine activity 
and cross resistance patterns in primary cultures of human hematologic neoplasms. Br J Cancer 
1993;67(1):10-4. 
Nawrocki  G,  Grieb  P,  Gorski  A,  Danielewicz  R,  Rowinski  W.  Prolongation  of  cardiac  allograft 
treatment  with  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  and 
survival 
cyclosporine: a novel immunosuppressive strategy. Transplant Proc 1996;28(6):3538-9. 
in  rats  following  combination 
Nomura Y, Inanami O, Takahashi K, Matsuda A, Kuwabara M. 2-Chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine induces 
apoptosis through the Fas/Fas ligand  pathway in human leukemia cell line MOLT-4.  Leukemia 
2000;14(2):299-306. 
37/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Fridborg H, Nygren P, Larsson R. Relationship between pharmacokinetic parameters in patients and 
cytotoxicity  in  vitro  of  standard  and  investigational  anticancer  drugs.  Anti-Cancer  Drugs 
1995;6:64-69. 
Goodman,  G.  R.,  C.  Burian,  et  al.  (2003).  "Extended  follow-up  of  patients  with  hairy  cell  leukemia 
after treatment with cladribine." J Clin Oncol 21(5): 891-6. 
Pawson,  R.,  R.  A'Hern,  et  al.  (1996).  "Second  malignancy  in  hairy  cell  leukaemia:  no  evidence  of 
increased incidence after treatment with interferon alpha." Leuk Lymphoma 22(1-2): 103-6. 
Petzer  AL,  Bilgeri  R,  Zilian  U,  Haun  M,  Geisen  FH,  Pragnell  I,  et  al.  Inhibitory  effect  of  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine  on  granulocytic,  erythroid,  and  T-lymphocytic  colony  growth.  Blood 
1991;78(10):2583-7. 
Piga  A,  Ganeshaguru  K,  Green  ES,  Sheridan  B,  Hoffbrand  AV.  Selective  toxicity  of  purine 
nucleosides to human leukemic cells. Adv Exp Med Biol 1989:291-8. 
Piro, L. D. (1987). "Hairy-cell leukemia." New England Journal of Medicine 317: 901. 
Piro, L. D., C. J. Carrera, et al. (1990). "Lasting remissions in hairy-cell leukemia induced by a single 
infusion of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine." N Engl J Med 322(16): 1117-21. 
Piro, L. D., D. J. Ellison, et al. (1994). "The Scripps Clinic experience with 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in 
the treatment of hairy cell leukemia." Leuk Lymphoma 14(Suppl 1): 121-5. 
Reichelova V, Juliusson G, Spasokoukotskaja T, Eriksson S, Liliemark J. Interspecies differences in 
the  kinetic  properties  of  deoxycytidine  kinase  elucidate  the  poor  utility  of  a  phase  I 
pharmacologically  directed  dose-escalation  concept  for  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine.  Cancer 
Chemother Pharmacol 1995;36(6):524-9. 
Robak  T,  Korycka  A.  The  comparison  of  2-chlorodeoxyadenosine  (2-CDA)  in  combination  with 
interferon  alpha  (IFN-alpha)  or  interferon  gamma  (IFN-gamma)  on  granulocyte-macrophage 
progenitor cells (CFU-GM) and clonogenic blasts in (CFU-L) in vitro cultures. Leuk Lymphoma 
1996;21(1-2):161-8. 
Robak,  T.,  M.  Blasinska-Morawiec,  et  al.  (1999).  "2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine  (cladribine)  in  the 
treatment  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  and  hairy  cell  leukemia  variant:  7-year  experience  in  Poland." 
Eur J Haematol 62(1): 49-56. 
Ryba  M,  Grieb  P,  Walski  M,  Sawicki  J,  Pastuszko  M.  2-Chloro-2'  deoxyadenosine  prevents 
angiopathic  changes  in  cerebral  arteries  in  experimental  SAH  in  rabbits.  Acta  Neurochir 
1993;122(1-2):118-21. 
Saven  A,  Kawasaki  H,  Carrera  CJ,  Waltz  T,  Copeland  B,  Zyroff  J,  et  al.  2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine 
dose escalation in nonhematologic malignancies. J Clin Oncol 1993;11(4):671-8. 
Saven,  A.,  C.  Burian,  et  al.  (1998).  "Long-term  follow-up  of  patients  with  hairy  cell  leukemia  after 
cladribine treatment." Blood 92(6): 1918-26. 
Schmid  T,  Oberhuber  G,  Thaler  W,  Kaltenbacher  A,  Herbst  P,  Margreiter  R,  et  al.  2-
Chlorodeoxyadenosine in combination with cyclosporine prevents rejection after allogeneic small 
bowel transplantation. Transplant Proc 1994;26(3):1614. 
Schmid T, Hechenleitner P, Mark W, Fischer M, Roberts K, Geisen F, et al. 2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine 
(cladribine)  in  combination  with  low-dose  cyclosporin  prevents  rejection  after  allogeneic  heart 
and liver transplantation in the rat. Eur Surg Res 1998;30(1):61-8. 
Seto  S,  Carrera  CJ,  Kubota  M,  Wasson  DB,  Carson  DA.  Mechanism  of  deoxyadenosine  and  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine toxicity to nondividing human lymphocytes. J Clin Invest 1985;75(2):377-
83. 
Seto S, Carrera CJ, Wasson DB, Carson DA. Inhibition of DNA repair by deoxyadenosine in resting 
human lymphocytes. J Immunol 1986;136(8):2839-43. 
Seymour, J. F., R. Kurzrock, et al. (1994). "2-chlorodeoxyadenosine induces durable remissions and 
prolonged suppression of CD4+ lymphocyte counts in patients with hairy cell leukemia." Blood 
83(10): 2906-11. 
Skalko  RG,  Robbins  CM,  Church  JK,  Airhart  MJ.  The  toxic  effect  of  chlorinated  adenosine  and 
(Meeting  abstract).  Teratology 
in  mice 
deoxyadenosine  on  umbilical  development 
1995;51(3):161a. 
Smith, J. W., 2nd, D. L. Longo, et al. (1991). "Prolonged, continuous treatment of hairy cell leukemia 
patients with recombinant interferon-alpha 2a." Blood 78(7): 1664-71. 
Sonderegger,  T.  A.,  D.  C.  Betticher,  et  al.  (1996).  "2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine  (2-CDA), 
pharmacokinetic  comparison  of  continuous  intravenous  (iv)  and  subcutaneous  bolus  (sc) 
application (Meeting abstract)." Ann Oncol 7 (Suppl. 3): 186a. 
38/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
Sonderegger, T. A. (1998). Pharmacokinetic comparison of continuous intravenous and subcutaneous 
bolus  application  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  (2-CDA)  (thesis).  Institute  for  Clinical 
Pharmacology. Berne, University of Berne. 
Sonderegger,  T.,  D.  C.  Betticher,  et  al.  (2000).  "Pharmacokinetics  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine 
administered  subcutaneously  or  by  continuous  intravenous  infusion."  Cancer  Chemother 
Pharmacol 46(1): 40-2. 
Sperb, R. A., A. von Rohr, et al. (1998). "[2-CDA in treatment of hairy cell leukemia: a comparison 
between  intravenous  and  subcutaneous  administration.  Swiss  Study  Group  of  Applied  Cancer 
Research]." Schweiz Med Wochenschr 128(42): 1593-7. 
Spielberger, R. T., R. Mick, et al. (1994). "Interferon treatment for hairy cell leukemia. An update on a 
cohort of 69 patients treated from 1983 to 1986." Leuk Lymphoma 14 Suppl 1: 89-93. 
Tallman,  M.  S.,  D.  Hakimian,  et  al.  (1996).  "Relapse  of  hairy  cell 
leukemia  after  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine:  long-term  follow-up  of  the  Northwestern  University  experience."  Blood 
88(6): 1954-9. 
Tanabe  K,  Hiraoka  W,  Kuwabara  M,  Sato  F,  Matsuda  A,  Ueda  T.  Induction  of  DNA  double-strand 
breaks in Chinese hamster V79 cells by 2- chlorodeoxyadenosine. Chem Biol Interact 1989;71(2-
3):167-75. 
Troussard,  X.,  M.  Henry-Amar,  et  al.  (1994).  "Second  cancer  risk  after  interferon  therapy?  [letter; 
comment]." Blood 84(9): 3242-4. 
Van  Den  Neste,  E.,  A.  Delannoy,  et  al. 
(1996).  "Infectious  complications  after  2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine therapy." Eur J Haematol 56(4): 235-40. 
Von  Rohr,  A.,  S.  F.  Schmitz,  et  al.  (2002).  "Treatment  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  with  cladribine  (2-
chlorodeoxyadenosine)  by  subcutaneous  bolus  injection:  a  phase  II  study."  Ann  Oncol  13(10): 
1641-9. 
Wataya Y, Hirota Y, Hiramoto-Yoshioka A, Tanaka S, Otani T, Minowada J, et al. The mechanism of 
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine-induced cell death. Adv Exp Med Biol 1989;253B:227-34. 
Wubah  JA,  Ibrahim  MM,  Gao  X,  Nguyen  D,  Pisano  MM,  Knudsen  TB.  Teratogen-induced  eye 
defects mediated by p53-dependent apoptosis [published erratum appears in Curr Biol 1996 Jun 
1;6(6):753]. Curr Biol 1996;6(1):60-9. 
Wubah JA, Setzer RW, Lau C, Charlap JH, Knudsen TB. Exposure-disease continuum for 2-chloro-2'-
teratogen.  1.  Dose-response  analysis.  Teratology 
deoxyadenosine,  a  prototype  ocular 
2001;64(3):154-69. 
Wyczechowska  D,  Ruckemann  K,  Duley  JA,  Simmonds  AH,  Fabianowska-Majewska  K.  Distinct 
inhibitory  effects  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  and  9-beta-D-  arabinosyl-2-fluoroadenine  on 
DNA methyltransferase in human T- lymphocytes. Nucleosides Nucleotides 1999;18(4-5):831-4. 
Yuh  SH,  Tibudan  M,  Hentosh  P.  Analysis  of  2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine  incorporation  into  cellular 
DNA by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Anal Biochem 1998;262(1):1-8. 
Zinzani,  P.  L.,  M.  Magagnoli,  et  al.  (2000).  "Long-term  follow-up  of  hairy  cell  leukemia  patients 
treated with 2- chlorodeoxyadenosine." Haematologica 85(9): 922-925. 
39/39 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
