EMA/342745/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006025 
Litfulo (ritlecitinib) 
An overview of Litfulo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Litfulo and what is it used for? 
Litfulo is a medicine used to treat adults and adolescents over 12 years of age with severe alopecia 
areata, an autoimmune disease (a disease caused by the body’s own defence system attacking normal 
tissue) causing hair loss of the scalp or other parts of the body.  
Litfulo contains the active substance ritlecitinib. 
How is Litfulo used? 
Litfulo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of alopecia areata.  
Litfulo is available as capsules taken by mouth once a day. Treatment should be interrupted or stopped 
if patients experience serious infections or low blood cell levels. Treatment should be stopped if no 
improvements are seen after 36 weeks. 
For more information about using Litfulo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Litfulo work? 
In people with alopecia areata, the immune system attacks the hair follicles and causes hair growth to 
slow or stop altogether, leading to hair loss. The active substance in Litfulo, ritlecitinib, is an 
immunosuppressant (a medicine that reduces the activity of the immune system). It works by blocking 
the action of certain enzymes called JAK3 and TEC kinases, which play an important role in 
inflammation. By blocking these enzymes, ritlecitinib reduces inflammation, allowing hair regrowth in 
people with alopecia areata. 
What benefits of Litfulo have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Litfulo were investigated in a main study involving 718 adults and adolescents over 12 
years of age with severe alopecia areata, 261 of whom were given 50 mg Litfulo or placebo (a dummy 
treatment). All patients had more than 50% hair loss on the scalp before they started treatment. After 
24 weeks of treatment, disease symptoms improved in patients given Litfulo: 13% of them were in 
near remission, meaning that they had more than 90% hair coverage on their scalp, and 23% had 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
more than 80% hair coverage. Such improvements were seen in 1.5% of patients given placebo. After 
48 weeks, 31% of patients given Litfulo were in near remission. When asked whether their alopecia 
had improved, 49% of patients given Litfulo stated that their condition had moderately or greatly 
improved, compared with 9% of patients given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Litfulo? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Litfulo, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Litfulo (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include diarrhoea, 
acne, upper respiratory tract (nose and throat) infections, urticaria (itchy rash), rash, folliculitis 
(inflammation of hair follicles) and dizziness. 
Litfulo must not be used in patients with active serious infections, including tuberculosis, or severe 
liver problems. The medicine also must not be used in women who are pregnant or breast-feeding. 
Why is Litfulo authorised in the EU? 
Litfulo was shown to be effective in the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents, 
and the benefits were maintained over time. Although the side effects of Litfulo are considered 
manageable, there are uncertainties regarding long-term use due to limited data. Several measures 
have been put in place to minimise risks associated with Litfulo. 
Given the importance of scalp hair regrowth for patients with severe alopecia areata, the European 
Medicines Agency decided that Litfulo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Litfulo? 
The company that markets Litfulo must provide educational materials to healthcare professionals and 
patients with information on the safety of the medicine, specifically regarding the risk of infections, 
cardiovascular conditions (diseases affecting the heart or blood vessels), cancer, neurotoxicity 
(damage to the nervous system) and toxicity to the unborn baby when exposed during pregnancy. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Litfulo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Litfulo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Litfulo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Litfulo 
Litfulo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023. 
Further information on Litfulo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/litfulo. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2023. 
Litfulo (ritlecitinib)  
EMA/342745/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
