ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Litfulo 50 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains ritlecitinib tosylate equivalent to 50 mg ritlecitinib.  
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each hard capsule contains 21.27 mg of lactose monohydrate.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule) 
Opaque hard capsules, yellow body and blue cap approximately 16 mm long and 6 mm wide, of which 
the body is printed with “RCB 50” and the cap is printed with “Pfizer” in black. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Litfulo is indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents 12 years of age 
and older (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of alopecia areata. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 50 mg once daily. 
The benefit-risk of treatment should be re-assessed at regular intervals on an individual basis. 
Consideration should be given to discontinuing patients who show no evidence of therapeutic benefit 
after 36 weeks.    
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory monitoring 
Table 1.  Laboratory measures and monitoring guidance 
Laboratory 
measures 
Platelet count 
Lymphocytes 
Monitoring guidance 
Action 
Before treatment initiation, 4 weeks after 
initiation, and thereafter according to 
routine patient management. 
Treatment should be 
discontinued if platelet count is 
< 50 × 103/mm3. 
Treatment should be interrupted 
if ALC is < 0.5 × 103/mm3 and 
may be restarted once ALC 
return above this value. 
Abbreviation: ALC = absolute lymphocyte count 
Treatment initiation 
Treatment with ritlecitinib should not be initiated in patients with an absolute lymphocyte count 
(ALC) < 0.5 × 103/mm3 or a platelet count < 100 × 103/mm3 (see section 4.4). 
Treatment interruption or discontinuation 
If a patient develops a serious infection or opportunistic infection, ritlecitinib should be interrupted 
until the infection is controlled (see section 4.4). 
Interruption or discontinuation of treatment may be needed for management of haematologic 
abnormalities as described in Table 1.  
If treatment interruption is needed, the risk of significant loss of regrown scalp hair after a temporary 
treatment interruption for less than 6 weeks is low.  
Missed doses 
If a dose is missed, patients should be advised to take the dose as soon as possible unless it is less than 
8 hours before the next dose, in which case the patient should not take the missed dose. Thereafter, 
dosing should be resumed at the regular scheduled time. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment  
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment (see 
section 5.2). 
Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or in patients with 
renal transplants and is therefore not recommended for use in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment  
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild (Child Pugh A) or moderate (Child Pugh B) 
hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). Ritlecitinib is contraindicated in patients with severe (Child Pugh 
C) hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for patients ≥ 65 years of age. There are limited data in patients 
≥ 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is required for adolescents 12 to < 18 years of age.  
The safety and efficacy of Litfulo in children under 12 years of age have not yet been established. No 
data are available. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration  
Oral use. 
Litfulo is to be taken once daily with or without food.  
Capsules should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed, split or chewed, because these 
methods of administration have not been studied in clinical trials. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance(s) or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Active serious infections, including tuberculosis (TB) (see section 4.4). 
Severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Serious infections 
Serious infections have been reported in patients receiving ritlecitinib. The most frequent serious 
infections have been appendicitis, COVID-19 infection (including pneumonia), and sepsis. Treatment 
with ritlecitinib must not be initiated in patients with an active, serious infection (see section 4.3).  
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered in patients: 
•  with chronic or recurrent infection 
•  who have been exposed to tuberculosis (TB) 
•  with a history of serious or an opportunistic infection 
•  who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic TB or mycoses, or 
•  with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection 
Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during 
and after treatment with ritlecitinib. Treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious or 
opportunistic infection. A patient who develops a new infection during treatment with ritlecitinib 
should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an immunocompromised 
patient, appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, and the patient should be closely 
monitored. If interrupted, ritlecitinib may be resumed once the infection is controlled. 
As there is a higher incidence of infections in elderly and in the diabetic population in general, caution 
should be exercised when treating the elderly and patients with diabetes, and particular attention paid 
with respect to occurrence of infections. 
Tuberculosis 
Patients should be screened for TB before starting therapy with ritlecitinib. Ritlecitinib must not be 
given to patients with active TB (see section 4.3). Anti-TB therapy should be started prior to initiating 
therapy with ritlecitinib in patients with a new diagnosis of latent TB or previously untreated latent 
TB. In patients with a negative latent TB test, anti-TB therapy should still be considered before 
initiating treatment with ritlecitinib in those at high risk and screening for patients at high risk for TB 
during treatment with ritlecitinib should be considered. 
Viral reactivation 
Viral reactivations, including cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster), have been 
reported (see section 4.8). If a patient develops herpes zoster, temporary interruption of treatment may 
be considered until the episode resolves. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Screening for viral hepatitis should be performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting 
therapy with ritlecitinib. Patients with evidence of hepatitis B or C infection were excluded from 
studies with ritlecitinib. Monitoring for reactivation of viral hepatitis according to clinical guidelines is 
recommended during ritlecitinib treatment. If there is evidence of reactivation, a liver specialist should 
be consulted. 
Malignancy (including non-melanoma skin cancer) 
Malignancies, including non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients receiving 
ritlecitinib.  
It is not known whether selective JAK3 inhibition may be associated with adverse reactions of Janus 
Kinase (JAK) inhibition predominantly involving JAK1 and JAK2. In a large randomised 
active-controlled study of tofacitinib (another JAK inhibitor) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients 50 
years and older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate of malignancies, 
particularly lung cancer, lymphoma and NMSC, was observed with tofacitinib compared to tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors.  
Limited clinical data are available to assess the potential relationship of exposure to ritlecitinib and the 
development of malignancies. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. The risks and benefits of 
ritlecitinib treatment should be considered prior to initiating or continuing therapy in patients with a 
known malignancy other than a successfully treated NMSC or cervical cancer.   
Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk of skin cancer. 
Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary 
embolism (PE) 
Events of venous and arterial thromboembolism, including MACE, have been reported in patients 
receiving ritlecitinib. 
It is not known whether selective JAK3 inhibition may be associated with adverse reactions of JAK 
inhibition predominantly involving JAK1 and JAK2. In a large randomised active-controlled study of 
tofacitinib (another JAK inhibitor) in RA patients 50 years and older with at least one additional 
cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate of MACE, defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal 
myocardial infarction and non-fatal stroke, and a dose-dependent higher rate of venous 
thromboembolism including DVT and PE were observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors.  
Long-term safety evaluations for ritlecitinib are ongoing. Ritlecitinib should be used with caution in 
patients with known risk factors for thromboembolism. In patients with a suspected thromboembolic 
event, discontinuation of ritlecitinib and prompt re-evaluation is recommended. The risks and benefits 
of ritlecitinib treatment should be considered prior to initiating therapy in patients. 
Neurological events 
Ritlecitinib-related axonal dystrophy has been observed in chronic Beagle dog toxicity studies 
(see section 5.3). Treatment with ritlecitinib should be discontinued in case unexplained neurological 
symptoms occur. 
Haematologic abnormalities 
Treatment with ritlecitinib was associated with decreases in lymphocytes and platelets (see section 
4.8). Prior to initiating treatment with ritlecitinib, ALC and platelet counts should be performed. 
Treatment with ritlecitinib should not be initiated in patients with an ALC < 0.5 × 103/mm3 or a 
platelet count < 100 × 103/mm3. After initiating treatment with ritlecitinib, treatment interruption or 
discontinuation are recommended based on ALC and platelet count abnormalities (see section 4.2). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALC and platelet counts are recommended at 4 weeks after initiation of therapy with ritlecitinib, and 
thereafter according to routine patient management.  
Vaccinations 
No data are available on the response to vaccination in patients receiving ritlecitinib. Use of live 
attenuated vaccines should be avoided during or immediately prior to ritlecitinib treatment. Prior to 
initiating ritlecitinib, it is recommended that patients are brought up to date with all immunisations, 
including prophylactic herpes zoster vaccinations, in agreement with current immunisation guidelines. 
Elderly 
There are limited data in patients ≥ 65 years of age. Age appeared to be a risk factor for lower ALC in 
patients ≥ 65 years of age.  
Excipients with known effect 
Lactose  
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Potential for other medicinal products to affect the pharmacokinetics of ritlecitinib 
The coadministration of multiple 200 mg doses of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased 
the area under curve (AUC)inf of ritlecitinib by approximately 15%. This is not considered clinically 
significant and, therefore dose adjustment is not required when ritlecitinib is coadministered with 
CYP3A inhibitors. 
The coadministration of multiple 600 mg doses of rifampicin, a strong inducer of CYP enzymes, 
decreased the AUCinf of ritlecitinib by approximately 44%. This is not considered clinically significant 
and, therefore dose adjustment is not required when ritlecitinib is coadministered with inducers of 
CYP enzymes. 
Potential for ritlecitinib to affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products 
Multiple doses of 200 mg once daily ritlecitinib increased the AUCinf and Cmax of midazolam a 
CYP3A4 substrate, by approximately 2.7-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively. Ritlecitinib is a moderate 
inhibitor of CYP3A; caution should be exercised with concomitant use of ritlecitinib with CYP3A 
substrates (e.g., quinidine, cyclosporine, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, pimozide) where moderate 
concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. Dose adjustment recommendations for 
the CYP3A substrate (e.g., colchicine, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus) should be considered.  
Multiple doses of 200 mg once daily ritlecitinib increased the AUCinf and Cmax of caffeine, a CYP1A2 
substrate, by approximately 2.7-fold and 1.1-fold, respectively. Ritlecitinib is a moderate inhibitor of 
CYP1A2; caution should be exercised with concomitant use of ritlecitinib with other CYP1A2 
substrates (e.g., tizanidine) where moderate concentration changes may lead to serious adverse 
reactions. Dose adjustment recommendations for the CYP1A2 substrate (e.g., theophylline, 
pirfenidone) should be considered.  
The coadministration of a single 400 mg dose of ritlecitinib increased the AUCinf of sumatriptan (an 
organic cation transporter [OCT]1 substrate) by approximately 1.3 to 1.5-fold relative to sumatriptan 
dose given alone. The increase in sumatriptan exposure is not considered clinically relevant. Caution 
should be exercised with concomitant use of ritlecitinib with OCT1 substrates where small 
concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ritlecitinib did not produce clinically significant changes in the exposures of oral contraceptives (e.g., 
ethinyl oestradiol or levonorgestrel), CYP2B6 substrates (e.g., efavirenz), CYP2C substrates (e.g., 
tolbutamide), or substrates of organic anion transporter (OAT)P1B1, breast cancer resistant protein 
(BCRP), and OAT3 (e.g., rosuvastatin).  
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Ritlecitinib is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. Women 
of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 month 
following the final dose of Litfulo.  
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data from the use of ritlecitinib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Ritlecitinib was teratogenic in rats and rabbits at high 
doses (see section 5.3). Litfulo is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding 
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of ritlecitinib in milk 
(see section 5.3). A risk to newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Litfulo is contraindicated during 
breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
The effect of ritlecitinib on human fertility has not been evaluated. There were no effects on fertility in 
rats at clinically relevant exposures (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Litfulo has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are diarrhoea (9.2%), acne (6.2%), upper respiratory 
tract infections (6.2%), urticaria (4.6%), rash (3.8%), folliculitis (3.1%), and dizziness (2.3%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
A total of 1630 patients were treated with ritlecitinib in placebo-controlled studies of alopecia areata 
representing 2303 patient-years of exposure. Three placebo-controlled studies were integrated 
(130 participants on 50 mg daily and 213 participants on placebo) to evaluate the safety of ritlecitinib 
in comparison to placebo for up to 24 weeks after treatment initiation.   
Table 2 lists all adverse reactions observed in alopecia areata placebo-controlled studies presented by 
system organ class and frequency, using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare 
(< 1/10 000). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Nervous system disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders  
Investigations  
Common 
Uncommon 
Herpes zoster 
Folliculitis 
Upper respiratory tract 
infections 
Dizziness 
Diarrhoea 
Acne 
Urticaria 
Rash 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
Platelet count decreased 
Lymphocyte count decreased 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased ˃ 3 × ULNa 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased ˃ 3 × ULNa 
a. 
Includes changes detected during laboratory monitoring 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, overall infections have been reported in 31% of 
patients (80.35 per 100 patient-years) treated with placebo and 33% of patients (74.53 per 
100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg. In study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, overall infections 
were reported in 51% of patients (89.32 per 100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or 
higher. 
Among all patients treated with ritlecitinib in the integrated safety analysis, including the long-term 
study and a study in vitiligo, overall infections were reported in 45.4% of patients (50.02 per 
100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. Most infections were mild or moderate in 
severity. 
In the placebo-controlled studies the percentage of patients reporting infection-related adverse reaction 
of herpes zoster were 1.5% in the ritlecitinib 50 mg group compared to 0 in placebo. All herpes zoster 
events were non-serious; 1 patient receiving ritlecitinib 200/50 mg (200 mg once daily for 4 weeks 
followed by 50 mg once daily) experienced an event of varicella zoster virus infection that met criteria 
as an opportunistic infection (multi-dermatomal herpes zoster). In study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, 
2.3% of patients (2.61 per 100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher reported herpes 
zoster Among all patients treated with ritlecitinib in the integrated safety analysis, including the 
long-term study and a study in vitiligo, the rate of herpes zoster was 1.10 per 100 patient-years in 
patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. 
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, no serious infections were reported in patients 
treated with placebo or ritlecitinib 50 mg. The proportion and rate of serious infections in patients 
treated with ritlecitinib 200/50 mg was 0.9% (2.66 per 100 patient-years). In study AA-I, for up to 
48 weeks, serious infections were reported in 0.8% of patients (0.86 per 100 patient-years) treated with 
ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. Among all patients treated with ritlecitinib in the integrated safety 
analysis, including the long-term study and a study in vitiligo, the proportion and rate of serious 
infection in ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher was 0.8% (0.59 per 100 patient-years). 
Opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic  infections  of  multi-dermatomal  herpes  zoster  were  reported  in  1  patient  (0.50  per 
100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 200/50 mg in the placebo-controlled studies, no patients in 
study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, and 2 patients (0.09 per 100 patient-years) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or higher in the integrated safety analysis, including the long-term study and a study in vitiligo. Cases 
of opportunistic herpes zoster were mild or moderate in severity. 
Decreased lymphocyte count 
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, and study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, treatment 
with ritlecitinib was associated with a decrease in lymphocyte count. Maximum effects on 
lymphocytes were observed within 4 weeks, after which lymphocyte count remained stable at a lower 
level with continued therapy. Among all patients treated with ritlecitinib in the integrated safety 
analysis, including the long-term study and a study in vitiligo, confirmed ALC < 0.5 × 103/mm3 
occurred in 2 participants (< 0.1%) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg. 
Decreased platelet count 
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, and study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, treatment 
with ritlecitinib was associated with a decrease in platelet count. Maximum effects on platelets were 
observed within 4 weeks, after which platelet count remained stable at a lower level with continued 
therapy. Among all patients treated with ritlecitinib in the integrated safety analysis, including the 
long-term study and a study in vitiligo, 1 patient (< 0.1%) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher had 
a confirmed platelet count < 100 × 103/mm3. 
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevations  
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, events of blood CPK increased were reported in 
2 patients (1.5%) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg. In study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, events of blood 
CPK increased were reported in 3.8% of patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. CPK 
elevations >5x upper limit of normal (ULN) were reported in 2 (0.9%) of patients treated with placebo 
and 5 (3.9%) of patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg. In study AA-I, for up to 48 weeks, CPK 
elevations >5x ULN were reported in 6.6% of patients treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or higher. Most 
elevations were transient and none led to discontinuation. 
Increased transaminases  
In the placebo-controlled studies, for up to 24 weeks, events of increases in ALT and AST values 
(>3 × ULN) were reported in 3 patients (0.9%) and 2 patients (0.6%) treated with ritlecitinib 50 mg or 
higher, respectively. Most elevations were transient, and none led to discontinuation.  
Paediatric population 
A  total  of  181 adolescents  (12 to  < 18 years  of  age)  were  enrolled  in  ritlecitinib  alopecia  areata 
placebo-controlled studies. 
The safety profile observed in adolescents was similar to that of the adult population. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Ritlecitinib was administered in placebo-controlled studies up to a single oral dose of 800 mg and 
multiple oral doses of 400 mg daily for 14 days. No specific toxicities were identified. In case of 
overdose, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for signs and symptoms of adverse 
reactions (see section 4.8). There is no specific antidote for overdose with ritlecitinib. Treatment 
should be symptomatic and supportive. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics (PK) data up to and including a single oral dose of 800 mg in healthy adult 
volunteers indicate that more than 90% of the administered dose is expected to be eliminated within 
48 hours. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Janus-associated kinase (JAK) inhibitors, ATC 
code: L04AF08 
Mechanism of action 
Ritlecitinib irreversibly and selectively inhibits Janus kinase (JAK) 3 and the tyrosine kinase 
expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) family by blocking the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
binding site. In cellular settings, ritlecitinib specifically inhibits γ-common cytokines (IL-2, IL-4, IL-7, 
IL-15 and IL-21) signalling through JAK3-dependent common-γ chain receptors. Additionally, 
ritlecitinib inhibits TEC family of kinases, resulting in reduced cytolytic activity of NK cells and 
CD8+ T cells. 
JAK3 and TEC family mediated signalling pathways are both involved in alopecia areata 
pathogenesis, although complete pathophysiology is still not understood. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Lymphocyte subsets 
In patients with alopecia areata, treatment with ritlecitinib was associated with dose-dependent early 
decreases in absolute lymphocyte levels, T lymphocytes (CD3) and T lymphocyte subsets (CD4 and 
CD8). After the initial decrease, the levels partially recovered and remained stable up to 48 weeks. 
There was no change observed in B lymphocytes (CD19) in any treatment group. There was a 
dose-dependent early decrease in NK cells (CD16/56) which remained stable at the lower level up to 
Week 48. 
Immunoglobulins 
In patients with alopecia areata, treatment with ritlecitinib was not associated with clinically 
meaningful changes in Immunoglobulin (Ig)G, IgM or IgA up to Week 48, indicating a lack of 
systemic humoral immunosuppression. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of ritlecitinib was evaluated in a pivotal, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study (study AA-I) in alopecia areata patients 12 years of age and older with ≥ 50% 
scalp hair loss, including alopecia totalis and alopecia universalis. The dose-response of ritlecitinib 
was also evaluated in this study. The study treatment period consisted of a placebo-controlled 24-week 
period and a 24-week extension period. Study AA-I evaluated a total of 718 patients who were 
randomised to one of the following treatment regimens for 48 weeks: 1) 200 mg once daily for 4 
weeks followed by 50 mg once daily for 44 weeks; 2) 200 mg once daily for 4 weeks followed by 
30 mg once daily for 44 weeks; 3) 50 mg once daily for 48 weeks; 4) 30 mg once daily for 48 weeks; 
5) 10 mg once daily for 48 weeks; 6) placebo for 24 weeks followed by 200 mg once daily for 4 weeks 
and 50 mg once daily for 20 weeks; or 7) placebo for 24 weeks followed by 50 mg for 24 weeks. 
This study assessed as primary outcome the proportion of subjects who achieved a SALT (Severity of 
Alopecia Tool) score of ≤ 10 (90% or more scalp hair coverage) at Week 24. Additionally, this study 
assessed as key secondary outcome the Patient’s Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) response at 
Week 24 and also assessed as secondary outcomes SALT score of ≤ 20 (80% or more scalp hair 
coverage) at Week 24 and improvements in regrowth of eyebrows and/or eyelashes at Week 24. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics 
Male or female patients 12 years of age and older, were assessed in study AA-I. All patients had 
alopecia areata with ≥ 50% scalp hair loss (SALT [Severity of Alopecia Tool] score ≥ 50) without 
evidence of terminal hair regrowth within the previous 6 months and with the current episode of scalp 
hair loss ≤ 10 years and no other known cause of hair loss (e.g., androgenetic alopecia). 
Across all treatment groups 62.1% were female, 68.0% were White, 25.9% were Asian, and 3.8% 
were Black or African American. The mean age of patients was 33.7 years and the majority (85.4%) 
were adults (≥ 18 years of age). A total of 105 (14.6%) patients 12 to < 18 years of age and 20 (2.8%) 
patients 65 years of age and older were enrolled. The mean (SD) baseline absolute SALT score ranged 
from 88.3 (16.87) to 93.0 (11.50) across treatment groups; among patients without alopecia 
totalis/alopecia universalis at baseline, the mean SALT score ranged from 78.3 to 87.0. The majority 
of patients had abnormal eyebrows (83.0%) and eyelashes (74.7%) at baseline across treatment 
groups. The median duration since alopecia areata diagnosis was 6.9 years and the median duration of 
the current alopecia areata episode was 2.5 years. Randomisation was stratified by alopecia 
totalis/alopecia universalis status with 46% of patients classified as alopecia totalis/alopecia 
universalis based upon a baseline SALT score of 100. 
Clinical response 
A significantly greater proportion of patients achieved SALT ≤ 10 response with ritlecitinib 50 mg 
compared to placebo at Week 24 (Table 3). The SALT ≤ 10 response rate for ritlecitinib 50 mg 
increased further at Week 48 (Figure 1). 
A significantly greater proportion of patients achieved Patient’s Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) 
response with ritlecitinib 50 mg compared to placebo at Week 24 (Table 3) with response rates 
continuing to increase through Week 48 (Figure 1). 
A significantly greater proportion of patients achieved a SALT ≤ 20 response with ritlecitinib 50 mg 
compared to placebo at Week 24 (Table 3). The SALT ≤ 20 response rate increased further at 
Week 48. 
Improvements in regrowth of eyebrows and/or eyelashes were seen at Week 24 (Table 3) with 
ritlecitinib 50 mg among patients with abnormal eyebrows and/or eyelashes at baseline with further 
increases seen at Week 48.  
Treatment effects at Week 24 in subgroups (age, gender, race, region, weight, duration of disease since 
diagnosis, duration of current episode, prior pharmacologic treatment) were consistent with the results 
in the overall study population. Treatment effects at Week 24 in the alopecia totalis/alopecia 
universalis subgroup were lower compared to the non-alopecia totalis/non-alopecia universalis 
subgroup. Treatment effects at Week 24 in adolescents 12 to less than 18 years of age were consistent 
with the results in the overall study population.  
Endpoint 
Table 3.  Efficacy results of ritlecitinib at week 24 
Ritlecitinib 50 mg once 
daily 
(N = 130) 
% Responders 
13.4 
SALT ≤ 10 responsea,b 
PGI-C responseb,c 
SALT ≤ 20 responsed,e 
EBA responsef 
ELA responseg 
49.2 
23.0 
29.0 
28.9 
11 
Placebo 
(N = 131) 
% Responders 
Difference from  
placebo  
(95% CI) 
1.5 
9.2 
1.6 
4.7 
5.2 
11.9 
(5.4, 18.3) 
40.0  
(28.9, 51.1) 
21.4  
(13.4, 29.5) 
24.3  
(14.8, 34.5) 
23.7  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(13.6, 34.5) 
Abbreviations: EBA = eyebrow assessment; ELA = eyelash assessment; CI = confidence interval; N = total 
number of patients; PGI-C = Patient’s Global Impression of Change; SALT = Severity of Alopecia Tool 
a.  SALT ≤ 10 responders were patients with scalp hair loss of ≤ 10%. SALT scores range from 0 to 100 with 
0 = no scalp hair loss and 100 = total scalp hair loss. 
b.  Statistically significant with adjustment for multiplicity.  
c.  PGI-C responders were patients with a score of “moderately improved” or “greatly improved” based upon a 
7-point scale from “greatly improved” to “greatly worsened”. 
d.  SALT ≤ 20 responders were patients with scalp hair loss of ≤ 20%. SALT scores range from 0 to 100 with 
0 = no scalp hair loss and 100 = total scalp hair loss. 
e.  Statistically significant. 
f.  EBA response is defined as at least a 2-grade improvement from baseline or normal EBA score on a 4-point 
scale in patients with abnormal eyebrows at baseline. 
g.  ELA response is defined as at least a 2-grade improvement from baseline or normal ELA score on a 4-point 
scale in patients with abnormal eyelashes at baseline. 
Figure 1.  SALT ≤ 10 and PGI-C response through Week 48 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; N = total number of patients; PGI-C = Patient Global Impression of 
Change; QD = once daily; SALT = Severity of Alopecia Tool 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
ritlecitinib in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of alopecia areata (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The absolute oral bioavailability of ritlecitinib is about 64%. Based on oral and intravenous 
administration of the labelled active substance, the relative urinary recovery (oral/intravenous) of 
labelled compounds was about 89%, indicating a high fraction absorbed (fa). Peak plasma 
concentrations are reached within 1 hour following multiple oral doses. Food does not have a 
clinically significant impact on the extent of ritlecitinib absorption, as a high-fat meal decreased the 
ritlecitinib Cmax by ~ 32% and increased AUCinf by ~11%. In placebo-controlled studies, ritlecitinib 
was administered without regard to meals (see section 4.2).  
In vitro, ritlecitinib is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and BCRP. However, as ritlecitinib has a 
high fraction absorbed (fa) with both Cmax and AUC increases in a dose proportional manner (20 – 
200 mg single dose range), P-gp and BCRP are not expected to have a meaningful impact on the 
absorption of ritlecitinib. 
Distribution 
After intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of ritlecitinib is about 74 L. 
Approximately 14% of circulating ritlecitinib is bound to plasma proteins, primarily albumin. The 
blood/plasma distribution ratio of ritlecitinib is 1.62. Ritlecitinib is a covalent inhibitor that has been 
shown to bind to off-target proteins such as MAP2K7, DOCK10, albumin, CYP1A2, CYP3A, 
UGT1A1, and UGT1A4, some of which may have clinical relevance in drug interactions (see 
section 4.5).  
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of ritlecitinib is mediated by multiple isoforms of Glutathione S-transferase (GST: 
cytosolic GST A1/3, M1/3/5, P1, S1, T2, Z1, and microsomal Membrane Associated Proteins involved 
in Eicosanoid and Glutathione metabolism [MAPEG]1/2/3) and CYP enzymes (CYP3A, CYP2C8, 
CYP1A2, and CYP2C9), with no single clearance route contributing more than 25%. Hence, 
medicinal products inhibiting a selective metabolic pathway are unlikely to impact the systemic 
exposures of ritlecitinib. Specific inhibitors of transporters are unlikely to result in clinically relevant 
changes in the bioavailability of ritlecitinib. 
In a human radiolabeled study, ritlecitinib was the most prevalent circulating species (30.4% of 
circulating radioactivity) after oral administration, with a major cysteine conjugate metabolite M2 
(16.5%), which is pharmacologically inactive. 
Elimination 
Ritlecitinib is eliminated primarily by metabolic clearance mechanisms, with approximately 4% of the 
dose excreted as unchanged active substance in urine. Approximately 66% of radiolabeled ritlecitinib 
dose is excreted in the urine and 20% in the faeces. Following multiple oral doses, steady state was 
reached approximately by Day 4 due to non-stationary PK. The steady state PK parameters of AUCtau 
and Cmax appeared to increase in an approximately dose-proportional manner up to 200 mg with the 
mean terminal half-life ranging from 1.3 to 2.3 hours. 
Special populations 
Body weight, gender, genotype, race and age  
Body weight, gender, GST P1, M1, and T1 genotype, race and age did not have a clinically 
meaningful effect on ritlecitinib exposure.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adolescents (≥ 12 to < 18 years) 
Based on population PK analysis, there was no clinically relevant difference in ritlecitinib exposures in 
adolescent patients compared to adults. 
Paediatric (< 12 years) 
The PK of ritlecitinib in children under 12 years of age have not yet been established. 
Renal impairment  
The AUC24 and Cmax in patients with severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate 
[eGFR] < 30 mL/min) was about 55% and 44% higher, respectively, compared with matched 
participants with normal renal functions. This was confirmed by popPK analysis. These differences are 
not considered clinically significant. Ritlecitinib was not studied in patients with mild (eGFR 60 to 
< 90 mL/min) or moderate (eGFR 30 to < 60 mL/min) renal impairment. However, based on the 
results obtained in patients with severe renal impairment, a clinically significant increase in ritlecitinib 
exposure is not expected in these patients. The eGFR and classification of renal function status of 
participants was done using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula. 
Based on the above considerations, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild, moderate or 
severe renal impairment. Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with ESRD or in renal transplant 
recipients (see section 4.2).  
Hepatic impairment  
Patients with moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment had an 18.5% increase in ritlecitinib AUC24 
compared to participants with normal hepatic function. Ritlecitinib was not studied in patients with 
mild (Child Pugh A) hepatic impairment. However, based on the results obtained in patients with 
moderate hepatic impairment, a clinically significant increase in ritlecitinib exposure is not expected in 
these patients. No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment 
(see section 4.2). Ritlecitinib has not been studied in patients with severe (Child Pugh C) hepatic 
impairment (see section 4.3). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
General toxicity 
Decreased lymphocyte counts and decreased lymphoid cellularity of organs and tissues of the immune 
and haematolymphopoietic systems were observed in nonclinical toxicity studies and were attributed 
to the pharmacological properties (JAK3/TEC inhibition) of ritlecitinib.  
Chronic administration of ritlecitinib to Beagle dogs led to the occurrence of axonal dystrophy at 
systemic exposures of at least 7.4-times the expected exposure in patients treated with 50 mg per day 
(based on unbound AUC24). Axonal dystrophy is presumably related to binding to off-target neuronal 
proteins. It is not known if axonal dystrophy occurred in dogs at lower systemic exposures. At a 
systemic exposure that was 33-times above the expected exposure in patients treated with 50 mg per 
day (based on unbound AUC24), axonal dystrophy was associated with neurological hearing loss. 
While these findings proved to reverse after dosing cessation of ritlecitinib in dogs, a risk to patients at 
a chronic dosing regimen cannot be fully excluded (see section 4.4). 
Genotoxicity 
Ritlecitinib was not mutagenic in the bacterial mutagenicity assay (Ames assay). Ritlecitinib is not 
aneugenic or clastogenic at exposures equal to 130 times the MRHD on an unbound AUC basis based 
on the results of the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus assay. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
No evidence of tumorigenicity was observed in the 6-month Tg.ras H2 mice administered ritlecitinib 
at exposures equal to 11 times the MRHD on an unbound AUC basis. In a 2-year rat carcinogenicity 
study, a higher incidence of benign thymomas in female rats and benign thyroid follicular adenomas in 
male rats was noted following ritlecitinib administration at exposures equal to 29 times the MRHD on 
an unbound AUC basis. At this ritlecitinib exposure, a higher incidence of malignant thymomas in 
female rats cannot be excluded. No ritlecitinib-related thymomas or thyroid follicular adenomas were 
observed at exposures equal to 6.3 times the MRHD on an unbound AUC basis.  
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Ritlecitinib had no effects on female rat fertility at exposures equal to 55 times the MRHD on an 
unbound AUC basis. Effects on male rat fertility were noted (higher preimplantation loss resulting in 
lower number of implantation sites and corresponding lower litter size in naïve females mated with 
ritlecitinib dosed males) at exposure equal to 55 times the MRHD on an unbound AUC basis. No 
effects on male fertility were noted at exposures equal to 14 times the MRHD on an unbound AUC 
basis. No effects on spermatogenesis (sperm counts, sperm production rate, motility, and morphology) 
were noted at any dose in the rat fertility study. 
In an embryo-foetal development study in pregnant rats, oral administration of ritlecitinib from 
gestation days 6 to 17 resulted in foetal skeletal malformations and variations and lower foetal body 
weights at exposures greater than or equal to 49 times the unbound AUC at the MRHD (see section 
4.3). There were no effects on embryo-foetal development at exposures equal to 16 times the unbound 
AUC at the MRHD. 
In an embryo-foetal development study in pregnant rabbits, oral administration of ritlecitinib from 
gestation days 7 to 19 resulted in lower mean foetal body weights and higher incidences of visceral 
malformations, skeletal malformations, and skeletal variations at exposures equal to 55 times the 
unbound AUC at the MRHD (see section 4.3). There were no effects on embryo-foetal development at 
exposures equal to 12 times the unbound AUC at the MRHD. 
In a rat pre- and postnatal development study, oral administration of ritlecitinib from gestation day 6 
through lactation day 20 resulted in developmental toxicity that included lower postnatal survival, 
lower offspring body weights, and secondary developmental delays at exposure equal to 41 times the 
unbound AUC at the MRHD (see section 4.3). Bred females in the F1 generation exhibited lower 
mean numbers of corpora lutea at exposures equal to 41 times the unbound AUC at the MRHD. There 
were no effects on pre- and postnatal development at exposures equal to 14 times the unbound AUC at 
the MRHD. 
In a juvenile rat toxicity study, oral administration of ritlecitinib from postnatal day 10 to 60 
(comparable to infant through adolescence human age) was not associated with effects on the nervous 
or skeletal systems.  
Lactation 
Following administration of ritlecitinib to lactating rats, concentrations of ritlecitinib in milk over time 
were higher than those in plasma, where the mean milk to plasma AUC ratio was determined to be 2.2 
(see section 4.3). 
15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Hard capsule content  
Cellulose microcrystalline 
Lactose monohydrate 
Crospovidone 
Glycerol dibehenate 
Hard capsule shell  
Hypromellose (E464) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Brilliant Blue FCF (E133) 
Printing ink 
Shellac  
Propylene glycol 
Ammonia solution concentrated 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the 
original package in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
High-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a silica gel desiccant and polypropylene closure 
containing 28 hard capsules. 
OPA/Al/PVC/Al blisters containing 10 hard capsules. Each pack contains 30 or 90 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1755/001 
EU/1/23/1755/002 
EU/1/23/1755/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH 
Betriebsstätte Freiburg 
Mooswaldallee 1 
79090 Freiburg 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the launch of ritlecitinib in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and 
format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution modalities, and 
any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.  
The educational programme is aimed at increasing awareness about the safety concerns of the product, 
specifically in regard to infections (including herpes zoster and serious infections and opportunistic 
infections), thromboembolic events including deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and arterial 
thrombosis, MACE, malignancy, neurotoxicity and embryo-foetal toxicity following exposure in 
utero.  
19 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where ritlecitinib is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense or use ritlecitinib have access 
to/are provided with the following educational package: 
The physician educational material should contain: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Package leaflet 
•  Healthcare Professional Guide  
•  Patient Card (PC) 
The healthcare professional guide shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Language for healthcare providers (HCPs) to inform patients of the importance of the PC. 
•  Potential risk of infections (including herpes zoster and serious infections or opportunistic 
infections)  
o  Describe that Litfulo must not be used in patients with an active, serious infection. 
o  Language on the risk of infections during treatment with Litfulo. 
o  Language recommending that risk factors for infections should be considered when 
prescribing ritlecitinib including elderly age and diabetes. 
o  Details on how to reduce the risk of infection with specific clinical measures (what 
laboratory parameters should be used to initiate Litfulo, screening for TB, and screening 
for viral hepatitis and temporary interruption of Litfulo if an infection is not responding to 
appropriate therapy until the infection is controlled). 
o  Language stating the use of live, attenuated vaccines should be avoided during or 
immediately prior to treatment along with examples of live, attenuated vaccines. 
•  Potential risk of thromboembolic events including deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism 
and arterial thrombosis  
o  Language describing that events of venous and arterial thromboembolism, including 
MACE, have been observed in studies in Litfulo. 
o  Details of how to reduce the potential risk: Litfulo should be used with caution in patients 
with known risk factors for thromboembolism. In patients with a suspected 
thromboembolic event, discontinuation of Litfulo and prompt re-evaluation is 
recommended. The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating 
Litfulo therapy in patients.  
•  Potential risk of malignancy 
o  Language describing that malignancies, including non-melanoma skin cancer, have been 
observed in studies with Litfulo. 
o  Details of how to reduce the potential risk with specific clinical measures (that the risks 
and benefits of Litfulo treatment should be considered prior to initiating in patients with a 
known malignancy or when considering continuing Litfulo therapy in patients who 
develop a malignancy, and that periodic skin examination is recommended for patients 
who are at increased risk for skin cancer). 
•  Potential risk of neurotoxicity 
o  Language describing that ritlecitinib-related axonal dystrophy has been observed in 
chronic Beagle dog toxicity studies at systemic exposures of at least 7.4-times the 
expected exposure in patients treated with 50 mg per day. At a systemic exposure that was 
33-times above the expected exposure in patients treated with 50 mg per day, axonal 
dystrophy was associated with neurological hearing loss. While these findings proved to 
reverse after dosing cessation of ritlecitinib in dogs, a risk to patients at a chronic dosing 
regimen cannot be fully excluded. Available clinical data has not indicated an effect on 
neurological or audiological outcomes. 
o  Details on how to reduce the risk Neurotoxicity, treatment with Litfulo should be 
discontinued in case unexplained neurological symptoms occur. 
•  Potential risk of embryo-foetal toxicity following exposure in utero 
o  Language describing there are no or limited data on the use of Litfulo in pregnant women. 
o  Details on how to reduce the risk of exposure during pregnancy for women of 
childbearing potential based on the following: Litfulo is contraindicated during pregnancy, 
20 
 
 
women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception both 
during treatment and for 1 month following cessation of Litfulo, and to advise patients to 
inform their HCP immediately if they think they could be pregnant or if pregnancy is 
confirmed.  
The patient information pack should contain: 
•  Package leaflet 
•  Patient card 
•  The patient card shall contain the following key messages: 
o  Language describing Litfulo (i.e. what it is and what it is used for). 
o  Contact details of the Litfulo prescriber. 
o  Language that the PC should be carried by the patient at any time and to share it with 
HCPs involved in their care (i.e., non- Litfulo prescribers, emergency room HCPs, etc.). 
o  Description of signs/symptoms of infections the patient needs to be aware of, so that they 
can seek attention from their HCP: 
▪  Language to advise patients and their HCPs about the risk of live vaccinations 
when given immediately before and during Litfulo therapy with examples of 
live vaccines. 
o  Reminder of the risk of cancer. Regarding skin cancer reminder to let their doctor know if 
they notice any new growth on the skin. 
o  Description of signs/symptoms of thromboembolic events including blood clots in the 
veins (deep vein thrombosis) or in the lungs (pulmonary embolism) and blood clots in an 
artery (arterial thrombosis), in the heart (heart attack), in the brain (stroke) or in the eye 
(profound vision loss in one eye) which the patient needs to be aware of, so that they can 
seek immediate attention from an HCP. 
o  Language that treatment with Litfulo should be discontinued in case unexplained 
neurological symptoms occur. 
o  Language that there are no or limited data on the use of Litfulo in pregnant women. 
o  Language describing on how to reduce the risk of exposure during pregnancy for women 
of childbearing potential based on the following: 
▪  Litfulo is contraindicated during pregnancy, women of childbearing potential 
should be advised to use effective contraception both during treatment and for 
1 month following cessation of Litfulo, and to advise patients to inform their 
HCP immediately if they think they could be pregnant or if pregnancy is 
confirmed. 
•  A reminder to use contraception, that Litfulo is contraindicated during 
pregnancy, and to notify their HCPs if they become pregnant while 
taking Litfulo. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BLISTER PACK FOR 50 MG  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Litfulo 50 mg hard capsules 
ritlecitinib  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains ritlecitinib tosylate equivalent to 50 mg ritlecitinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose monohydrate. (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
90 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Do not split, crush or chew.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS  
EU/1/23/1755/002 30 hard capsules 
EU/1/23/1755/003 90 hard capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Litfulo 50 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 50 MG  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Litfulo 50 mg hard capsules 
ritlecitinib  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains ritlecitinib tosylate equivalent to 50 mg ritlecitinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose monohydrate. (see leaflet for further information). 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Do not split, crush or chew.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1755/001 28 hard capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Litfulo 50 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS FOR 50 MG CAPSULES  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Litfulo 50 mg hard capsules 
ritlecitinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA holder logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Litfulo 50 mg hard capsules 
ritlecitinib  
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
In addition to this leaflet, your doctor will give you a patient card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of. Keep this patient card with you. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Litfulo is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Litfulo 
3.  How to take Litfulo 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Litfulo 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Litfulo is and what it is used for 
Litfulo contains the active substance ritlecitinib. It is used to treat severe alopecia areata in adults and 
adolescents 12 years of age and older. Alopecia areata is a disease where the body’s own immune 
system attacks hair follicles, causing inflammation that leads to hair loss on the scalp, face and/or 
other parts of the body.   
Litfulo works by reducing the activity of enzymes called JAK3 and TEC kinases, which are involved 
in inflammation at the hair follicle. This reduces the inflammation, leading to hair regrowth in patients 
with alopecia areata. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Litfulo 
Do not take Litfulo 
- 
if you are allergic to ritlecitinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
if you have a serious infection ongoing, including tuberculosis. 
if you have severe liver problems. 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding (see the “pregnancy, contraception, breast-feeding and 
fertility” section). 
- 
- 
- 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before and during treatment with Litfulo if you:  
- 
have an infection (possible signs may be fever, sweating, chills, muscle aches, cough, shortness 
of breath, blood in your phlegm, weight loss, diarrhoea, stomach pain, burning when you 
urinate, urinating more often than usual, feeling very tired). Litfulo can reduce your body’s 
ability to fight infections and so worsen an existing infection or make it more likely for you to 
get a new infection. 
if you have diabetes or are older than 65 years of age, you may have an increased risk of getting 
infections. 
have, or have had, tuberculosis or have been in close contact with someone with tuberculosis, or 
if you reside or travel in regions where tuberculosis is very common. Your doctor will test you 
for tuberculosis before starting Litfulo and may retest you during treatment. 
have ever had a herpes infection (such as chickenpox or shingles), because Litfulo may allow it 
to come back. Tell your doctor if you get a painful skin rash with blisters as this can be a sign of 
shingles. 
have ever had hepatitis B or hepatitis C. Your doctor will test you for hepatitis before starting 
Litfulo and may retest you during treatment. 
have cancer or have had any cancer – it is not clear if Litfulo increases the risk of cancer, and 
your doctor will discuss with you if treatment with this medicine is appropriate and whether 
check-ups including regular skin checks will be necessary during treatment.  
have had blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary 
embolism). Tell your doctor if you get a painful swollen leg, chest pain, or shortness of breath 
as these can be signs of blood clots in the veins. 
have had blood clots in an artery in the eye (retinal occlusion) or heart (heart attack). Tell your 
doctor if you experience acute changes to your eyesight (blurry vision, partial or complete loss 
of vision), chest pain, shortness of breath as these changes may be a sign of blood clots in the 
arteries.  
have recently had or plan to have a vaccination (immunisation) – this is because certain 
vaccines (live vaccines) are not recommended while using Litfulo. Check with your doctor to 
see if your vaccinations are up to date and if you require additional vaccinations, including 
vaccination for shingles, before treatment with Litfulo. 
have unexplained symptoms caused by a problem with the nervous system while taking Litfulo. 
Your doctor will discuss with you if treatment should be discontinued.  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Additional monitoring tests 
Your doctor will carry out blood tests to check if you have low white blood cell count or low platelet 
count before and approximately 4 weeks after starting Litfulo treatment and may adjust your treatment 
if necessary. 
Children  
This medicine is not approved for use in children below the age of 12 years because the safety and 
benefits of Litfulo are not established in this age group. 
Other medicines and Litfulo 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
anxiety or sleep disorders (such as midazolam),  
heart rhythm problems (such as quinidine),  
gout (such as colchicine),  
rejection in organ transplantation (such as cyclosporine, everolimus, tacrolimus and sirolimus), 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking Litfulo if you are taking some of the 
medicines to treat: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-  migraine (such as dihydroergotamine and ergotamine),  
- 
- 
schizophrenia and chronic psychosis (such as pimozide),  
asthma (such as theophylline),  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
-  muscle spasms (such as tizanidine),  
- 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (such as pirfenidone).  
Litfulo may increase the amount of these medicines in your blood.  
If any of the above apply to you or if you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Litfulo. 
Pregnancy, contraception, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Contraception in women 
If you are a woman of childbearing potential, you should use an effective method of contraception 
during treatment with Litfulo, and for at least one month after your last treatment dose. Your doctor 
can advise you on suitable methods of contraception.  
Pregnancy 
Do not use Litfulo if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby. This 
medicine can harm the developing baby. Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant or think 
you might have become pregnant during treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not use Litfulo while breast-feeding as it is not known if this medicine passes into breast milk or if 
breast-fed babies are affected. You and your doctor should decide if you will breast-feed or use this 
medicine. 
Fertility 
It is unknown if Litfulo reduces fertility in women or men of childbearing potential.  
Driving and using machines 
Litfulo has no or limited effect on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Litfulo contains lactose  
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Litfulo 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 50 mg once a day taken by mouth.   
You should swallow your capsule whole with water. Do not open, crush or chew the capsule before 
swallowing as it may change how much medicine gets into your body.  
You can take the capsule either with or without food.  
If you take more Litfulo than you should 
If you take more Litfulo than you should, contact your doctor. You may get some of the side effects 
described in section 4. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Litfulo 
- 
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, unless your next dose is due in less than 
8 hours. 
If there is less than 8 hours before your next dose, just skip the missed dose and take your next 
dose as usual when it is due. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten capsule. 
- 
- 
If you stop taking Litfulo 
You should not stop taking Litfulo without discussing this with your doctor. 
If you need to stop taking Litfulo for a short time (not more than 6 weeks), the risk of losing your 
scalp hair is low. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Talk to your doctor and get medical help straight away if you get any signs of:  
- 
- 
Shingles (herpes zoster), a painful skin rash with blisters with or without fever  
Hives (urticaria), an itching skin rash  
Other side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Infections of nose, throat or the windpipe 
Diarrhoea 
Dizziness 
Acne 
Rash (other than hives and shingles) 
Inflammation (swelling) of the hair follicles which may be itchy or painful (folliculitis) 
Increase in an enzyme called creatine phosphokinase, shown by blood test (blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
Low platelet count shown by blood test (platelet count decreased) 
Low white blood cell count shown by blood test (lymphocyte count decreased) 
Increase of liver enzymes in the blood (ALT and AST increased) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Litfulo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, bottle, or blister after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from light. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Litfulo contains  
- 
The active substance is ritlecitinib. 
Each hard capsule contains ritlecitinib tosylate equivalent to 50 mg ritlecitinib. 
- 
The other ingredients are:  
Hard capsule content: cellulose microcrystalline, lactose monohydrate, crospovidone ), glycerol 
dibehenate (see section 2 “Litfulo contains lactose monohydrate”). 
Hard capsule shell: hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172), 
brilliant blue FCF (E133). 
Printing ink: shellac, propylene glycol, ammonia solution concentrated, black iron oxide (E172), 
potassium hydroxide.  
What Litfulo looks like and contents of the pack 
Litfulo 50 mg opaque hard capsules have a yellow body and blue cap approximately 16 mm long and 
6 mm wide of which the body is printed with “RCB 50” and the cap is printed with “Pfizer” in black. 
The 50 mg hard capsules are provided in high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with 
polypropylene closure containing 28 hard capsules or in OPA/Al/PVC/Al blisters containing 30 or 
90 hard capsules. The bottle contains a silica gel desiccant used to keep the capsules dry. Do not 
swallow the silica gel desiccant. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG  
Boulevard de la Plaine 17  
1050 Bruxelles  
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH  
Betriebsstätte Freiburg  
Mooswaldallee 1  
79090 Freiburg  
Germany 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel: +370 5 251 4000 
България 
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България 
Teл.: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 488 37 00 
Česká republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420 283 004 111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00 
Deutschland 
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +356 21344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
Pfizer Ελλάς A.E.  
Τηλ: +30 210 6785800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 423 5500 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana 
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: + 421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Sverige 
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Κύπρος 
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch) 
Τηλ: +357 22817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1304 616161 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: + 371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
36 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
