ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Livmarli 9.5 mg/mL oral solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of solution contains maralixibat chloride equivalent to 9.5 mg maralixibat. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of oral solution contains 364.5 mg propylene glycol (E1520) 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral solution. 
Clear, colourless to light-yellow liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Livmarli is indicated for the treatment of cholestatic pruritus in patients with Alagille syndrome 
(ALGS) 2 months of age and older. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Livmarli should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management of patients with cholestatic liver diseases. 
Posology 
The recommended target dose is 380 mcg/kg once daily. The starting dose is 190 mcg/kg once daily 
and should be increased to 380 mcg/kg once daily after one week. Table 1 provides the dose in mL of 
solution to be given for each weight range. In case of poor tolerability, dose reduction from 
380 mcg/kg/day to 190 mcg/kg/day, or treatment interruption can be considered. Renewed dose-
escalation can be attempted as tolerated. The maximum recommended daily dose for patients above 
70 kg is 3 mL (28.5 mg). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Individual dose volume by patient weight 
Patient weight 
(kg) 
5-6 
7-9 
10-12 
13-15 
16-19 
20-24 
25-29 
30-34 
35-39 
40-49 
50-59 
60-69 
70 or higher  
Days 1 to 7 
(190 mcg/kg once daily) 
From day 8 and after 
(380 mcg/kg once daily) 
Volume once 
daily 
(mL)  
0.1 
0.15 
0.2 
0.3 
0.35 
0.45 
0.5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.9 
1 
1.25 
1.5 
Oral syringe size 
(mL) 
0.5 
1 
3 
Oral syringe size 
(mL) 
0.5 
1 
3 
Volume once 
daily 
(mL) 
0.2 
0.3 
0.45 
0.6 
0.7 
0.9 
1 
1.25 
1.5 
1.75 
2.25 
2.5 
3 
Alternative treatment should be considered in patients for whom no treatment benefit can be 
established following 3 months of continuous daily treatment with maralixibat. 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed, but it can be taken within 12 hours of the regular schedule, it should be taken as 
soon as possible. If a dose is missed by more than 12 hours, the dose should be omitted, and the 
original dose schedule resumed the following day. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Maralixibat has not been studied in patients with renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
requiring haemodialysis. However, due to the minimal plasma concentrations and negligible renal 
excretion, no dose adjustment is required for these patients (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Maralixibat has not been sufficiently studied in patients with liver impairment. Due to minimal 
absorption, no dose adjustment is required for patients with hepatic impairment. Close monitoring is, 
however, advised for patients with end-stage liver disease or progression to decompensation. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Livmarli in infants less than 2 months of age have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration 
Livmarli is administered orally via an oral syringe by a caregiver or the patient, before (up to 30 
minutes) or with a meal, in the morning.  
Mixing Livmarli oral solution directly into food or drink prior to administration has not been studied 
and should be avoided. 
3 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three sizes of oral syringe (0.5 mL, 1 mL and 3 mL) are provided with each bottle of Livmarli. 
Table 1 provides the correct oral syringe size for each weight range. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Maralixibat acts by inhibiting the ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) and disrupting enterohepatic 
circulation of bile acids. Therefore, conditions, medicinal products or surgical procedures that impair 
either gastrointestinal motility or enterohepatic circulation of bile acids have the potential to impact 
the efficacy of maralixibat.  
Diarrhoea has been reported as a very common adverse reaction when taking maralixibat (section 4.8). 
Diarrhoea may lead to dehydration. Patients should be monitored regularly to ensure adequate 
hydration during episodes of diarrhoea. 
Patients with chronic diarrhoea requiring intravenous fluid or nutritional intervention were not studied 
in clinical trials. 
In clinical trials, ALT elevations were observed in some patients receiving maralixibat treatment. 
These elevations were observed in the absence of bilirubin increases and are of unknown clinical 
significance. Liver function tests should be monitored in patients prior to start and during treatment 
with maralixibat. 
Assessment of fat-soluble vitamin (FSV) levels (Vitamins A, D, E) and international normalised ratio 
(INR) are recommended for all patients prior to initiating Livmarli, with monitoring per standard 
clinical practice. If FSV deficiency is diagnosed, supplemental therapy should be prescribed. 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 364.5 mg propylene glycol (E1520) in each mL of oral solution.  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Maralixibat is an OATP2B1 inhibitor based on in vitro studies. A decrease in the oral absorption of 
OATP2B1 substrates (e.g. fluvastatin or rosuvastatin) due to OATP2B1 inhibition in the GI tract 
cannot be ruled out. Consider monitoring the effects of OATP2B1 substrates as needed. 
Maralixibat is also an inhibitor of CYP3A4 based on in-vitro studies. An increase of plasma levels of 
CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., midazolam, simvastatin) can therefore not be excluded and caution is 
advised when administering such compounds concomitantly. 
Maralixibat, being an inhibitor of bile acid absorption, has not been fully evaluated with regard to the 
interaction potential with the bile acid Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA).  
Maralixibat is minimally absorbed, is not significantly metabolised, and is not a substrate of active 
substance transporters; therefore, other concomitant medicinal products are not known to effect the 
disposition of maralixibat. 
Maralixibat is not known to inhibit or induce other cytochrome P450 in patients; therefore, maralixibat 
is not predicted to affect the disposition of concomitant medicinal products through those mechanisms. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of maralixibat in pregnant women. Animal studies do not indicate 
direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). No effects on 
the foetus during pregnancy are anticipated, since systemic exposure to maralixibat is negligible. As a 
precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Livmarli during pregnancy.  
Breast-feeding 
No effects on the breastfed newborn/infant are anticipated since the systemic exposure of the 
breast-feeding woman to maralixibat is negligible. Livmarli can be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on the effect of maralixibat on fertility. Animal studies do not indicate any 
direct or indirect effects on fertility or reproduction (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Livmarli has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently occurring adverse reaction reported in patients older than 12 months of age 
(N=86) with ALGS who were treated with maralixibat in clinical trials over 5 years was diarrhoea 
(36.0%) followed by abdominal pain (29.1%). In patients younger than 12 months of age (N=8), the 
most common adverse reactions were also diarrhoea and abdominal pain, similar to the older children 
with ALGS. Across the ALGS program, none of the adverse reactions of diarrhoea or abdominal pain 
were serious.    
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The safety profile of maralixibat is based on a pooled analysis of data from a review of 5 clinical 
studies in patients aged between 1 and 17 (median of 5 years) with ALGS (N=86). The median 
duration of exposure was 2.5 years (range: 1 day to 5.5 years). Table 2 presents the adverse reactions 
reported from this pooled analysis.  
Adverse reactions in patients treated with maralixibat for ALGS are listed below by MedDRA system 
organ class and frequency grouping. Frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported in patients with ALGS  
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
All reported events of diarrhoea were mild to moderate in severity; a severe adverse reaction of 
abdominal pain was reported in 1 patient. The time to onset for diarrhoea and abdominal pain in the 
majority of cases was within the first month of treatment. The median duration for diarrhoea and 
abdominal pain were 2 days and 1 day, respectively. No dose response relationship was observed for 
the incidence of diarrhoea. Treatment was interrupted or dose was reduced due to adverse 
gastrointestinal reactions in 4 (4.7%) patients and led to improvement or resolution of the adverse 
reactions. No patients discontinued Livmarli due to these adverse reactions.  
If diarrhoea and/or abdominal pain persist and no other etiologies are found, reducing the dose or 
interrupting treatment should be considered. Dehydration should be monitored and treated promptly. If 
dosing with Livmarli is interrupted, Livmarli can be restarted as tolerated when diarrhoea or 
abdominal pain improve (section 4.2). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Maralixibat is minimally absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and overdose is not expected to result 
in high plasma levels of the active substance. Single doses of up to 500 mg, approximately 18-fold 
higher than the recommended dose, have been administered in healthy adults without any adverse 
consequences. 
In the event of an overdose, general supportive measures should be followed and the patient should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of adverse reactions (see section 4.8). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Bile and liver therapy, other drugs for bile therapy. ATC code: A05AX04 
Mechanism of action 
Maralixibat is a minimally absorbed, reversible, potent, selective inhibitor of the ileal bile acid 
transporter (IBAT). 
Maralixibat acts locally in the distal ileum to decrease the reuptake of bile acids and increase the 
clearance of bile acids through the colon, reducing the concentration of bile acids in the serum.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy of maralixibat in ALGS patients was assessed in a 48-week trial which included an 18-
week open-label active substance run-in period, a 4-week double-blind randomised withdrawal period 
and a long-term, open-label extension period. 
Thirty-one ALGS paediatric patients with cholestasis and pruritus were enrolled, with 90.3% of 
patients receiving at least one medication to treat pruritus at trial entry (74.2% and 80.6% of patients 
receiving rifampicin and ursodeoxycholic acid, respectively). Concomitant use of these medications 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was allowed during the trial, but dose adjustments were prohibited during the first 22 weeks. All 
patients had ALGS due to JAGGED1 mutation. 
Exclusion criteria included surgical interruption of the enterohepatic circulation, history or presence of 
any condition known to interfere with the absorption, distribution, metabolism or excretion of drugs, 
including bile salt metabolism in the intestine, and chronic diarrhoea requiring intravenous fluid or 
nutritional intervention.  
After an initial 5-week dose-escalation period, patients were administered open-label treatment with 
maralixibat 380 mcg/kg once daily for 13 weeks; two patients discontinued treatment during this first 
18 weeks of open-label run-in treatment. The 29 patients who completed the open-label run-in phase 
were then randomised to either continue treatment with maralixibat or receive matching placebo (n=16 
placebo, n=13 maralixibat) during the 4-week double-blind randomised withdrawal period at 
weeks 19-22. All 29 patients completed the blinded randomised withdrawal period; subsequently, all 
patients received open-label maralixibat at 380 mcg/kg once daily dose for up to 48 weeks. Patients 
who were switched from placebo went through a dose escalation schedule similar to the initial 
escalation.  
Randomised patients had a median age of 5 years (range: 1 to 15 years) and 66% were male. The 
baseline mean (standard deviation [SD]) of liver test parameters were as follows: serum bile acid 
(sBA) levels 280 (213) µmol/L, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 158 (68) U/L, alanine transaminase 
(ALT) 179 (112) U/L, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) 498 (399) U/L, and total bilirubin (TB) 5.6 
(5.4) mg/dL. 
Serum bile acids (sBA) 
A statistically significant mean (SD) reduction in sBA versus baseline of 88 (120) and 
96 (166.6) μmol/L was observed at week 18 and week 48 when patients were administered 
maralixibat. At the end of the placebo-controlled period, a statistically significant least squares mean 
(SE) difference was demonstrated between maralixibat and placebo in change in sBA from week 18 to 
week 22 (-114 [48.0] µmol/L; p=0.025). When the placebo group resumed treatment with maralixibat 
at the end of the withdrawal period, sBA reduced to levels previously observed with maralixibat 
treatment (see Figure 1).  
Figure 1:  Mean (± SE) change from baseline sBA, through week 48, all patients 
MRX = maralixibat; PBO = placebo; SE = standard error; BL = baseline 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pruritus 
Pruritus severity was evaluated in the overall population (n=31), measured by Itch Reported Outcome 
Observer (ItchRO[Obs]) score. The ItchRO score is a validated 0-4 scale completed by caregivers 
(0=none to 4=very severe), where changes ≥1.0 have been shown to be clinically meaningful. Changes 
in pruritus severity between participants treated with maralixibat and those treated with placebo during 
the randomised withdrawal period and changes from baseline to week 18 and to week 48 were 
measured. The mean ItchRO(Obs) score at baseline was 2.9.  
Patients administered maralixibat demonstrated a clinically meaningful change and statistically 
significant reductions of ItchRO(Obs) of -1.7 and -1.6 points from baseline at week 18 and week 48, 
respectively. 
During the placebo-controlled randomised withdrawal period, patients administered maralixibat 
maintained pruritus reduction, whereas those in the placebo group returned to baseline pruritus scores. 
The difference between maralixibat and placebo in least squares mean (SE) change in pruritus from 
week 18 to week 22 (-1.5 [0.3]; 95% CI: -2.1 to -0.8; p<0.0001; see Figure 2) was statistically 
significant. After resuming maralixibat, patients from the placebo group regained improvement in 
pruritus by week 28. Patients administered maralixibat demonstrated sustained pruritus reduction up to 
48 weeks. 
Figure 2: 
ItchRO(Obs) weekly average morning severity score change from baseline by 
randomised treatment group over time, through week 48, all patients  
MRX = maralixibat; PBO = placebo; SE = standard error; BL = baseline 
Improvements of variable degree in cholesterol and xanthoma severity were observed during treatment 
with maralixibat.   
The mechanism of action of maralixibat to prevent reuptake of bile acids is expected to be similar 
across all age groups.  Evidence of efficacy in patients younger than 12 months of age with ALGS is 
limited. In an open-label, single-arm study in 8 patients of 2 to 10 months of age with ALGS change in 
pruritus as assessed with Clinician Scratch Scale (where 0=none and 4=cutaneous mutilation, 
haemorrhage and scarring evident) at week 13 was mean (SD; median; range) -0.2 (1.91; -1.0; -3.0 to 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.0) and in sBA mean (SD; median; range) -88.91 µmol/L (113.348; -53.65; -306.1 to 14.4). Two 
patients experienced improvement in both pruritus and sBA. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Livmarli in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in patients with ALGS (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Exceptional circumstances 
This medicinal product has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to 
the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal 
product. The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become 
available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The target of maralixibat is in the lumen of the small intestine, such that plasma levels of maralixibat 
are not required and not relevant to its efficacy. Maralixibat is minimally absorbed, and plasma 
concentrations are often below the limit of detection (0.25 ng/mL) after single or multiple doses at 
therapeutic dose levels. The absolute bioavailability is estimated to be <1%. 
Effect of food 
Maralixibat absorption is relatively higher when administered in the fasted state, but no dose 
adjustment for food effects is necessary. Maralixibat can be taken before (up to 30 minutes) or with a 
meal, in the morning. (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
Maralixibat shows high binding (91%) to human plasma in vitro. 
In a clinical ADME trial dosing [14C] maralixibat, circulating radioactivity was below the limit of 
detection at all time points. There is no apparent accumulation of maralixibat. 
Biotransformation 
No metabolites have been detected in plasma, and maralixibat also undergoes minimal metabolism in 
the gastrointestinal tract. 
Elimination 
Maralixibat is primarily eliminated in the faeces as unmetabolised parent compound, with 0.066% of 
the administered dose excreted in the urine. 
Special populations 
No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of maralixibat were observed based on 
age, sex, or race. 
Hepatic impairment 
Clinical studies of maralixibat included ALGS patients with some level of liver impairment. The 
majority of ALGS patients presented with some degree of hepatic impairment according to the NCI-
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ODWG classification due to the disease. Whether this classification is, however, appropriate in 
cholestatic disease, and in ALGS to predict the influence on PK of the compound is currently unclear. 
Maralixibat is minimally absorbed, and animal data indicate that the very low plasma levels are due to 
low absorption and not a first pass effect in the liver, and plasma levels of maralixibat were not 
increased in ALGS patients with liver impairment according to the NCI-ODWG. However, the PK of 
maralixibat have not been systematically investigated in patients classified according to the Child-
Pugh classification (patients with cirrhosis and signs of decompensation). 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of maralixibat were not studied in patients with impaired renal function, 
including those with ESRD or those on haemodialysis. However, renal impairment is not expected to 
impact maralixibat PK due to the low systemic exposure and lack of urinary excretion. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no specific hazard for humans based on studies of safety pharmacology, 
secondary pharmacology, repeated-dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, fertility, toxicity to 
reproduction and development, and juvenile animal toxicity. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Disodium edetate 
Sucralose 
Grape flavour 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
After first opening 
After the first opening of the bottle, the medicinal product must be used within 130 days stored below 
30°C. Then the bottle and its contents have to be discarded, even if not empty. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the 
original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
30 mL amber-coloured PET bottle with a preinstalled LDPE adapter and a HDPE child-resistant 
closure with a foam liner, containing 30 mL oral solution. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pack size:  
Each pack contains one 30 mL bottle and is co-packaged with three oral repeated-use syringes 
(0.5 mL, 1 mL and 3 mL) with the following graduations:  
• 
0.5 mL polypropylene syringe with a white plunger: numbers for each 0.1 mL, major hash 
marks for 0.05 mL increments, and minor hash marks for 0.01 mL increments. 
1 mL polypropylene syringe with a white plunger: numbers for each 0.1 mL increment. 
3 mL polypropylene syringe with a white plunger: numbers for each 0.5 mL increment, and 
hash marks for each 0.25 mL increment between 0.5 mL and 3 mL. 
• 
• 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The oral syringes may be rinsed with water, air dried and reused for 130 days.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mirum Pharmaceuticals International B.V. 
Kingsfordweg 151 
1043 GR Amsterdam, 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1704/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 9 December 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block 7 City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to further characterise the long-term safety and efficacy of maralixibat in 
the treatment of cholestatic pruritus in patients with Alagille syndrome (ALGS), 
Due date 
Annual 
(within 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
the MAH shall conduct and submit the results of study LEAP (MRX-311) 
according to an agreed protocol. 
Due date 
annual 
reassessment) 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of safety and efficacy of maralixibat in the 
treatment of patients with Alagille syndrome (ALGS), the MAH shall provide 
yearly updates on any new information concerning the safety and efficacy of 
maralixibat. 
Annual 
(within 
annual 
reassessment) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Livmarli 9.5 mg/mL oral solution 
maralixibat 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL of solution contains maralixibat chloride equivalent to 9.5 mg maralixibat 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains propylene glycol (E1520). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
One 30 mL bottle 
Three oral syringes (0.5 mL, 1 mL, 3 mL) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After first opening the bottle, use the medicine within 130 days. Store below 30°C. Discard after 
130 days of first opening. 
Date of first opening: __/__/__ 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mirum Pharmaceuticals International B.V. 
Kingsfordweg 151 
1043 GR Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1704/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Livmarli 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Livmarli 9.5 mg/mL oral solution 
maralixibat  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL contains maralixibat chloride equivalent to 9.5 mg maralixibat 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains propylene glycol. Read the package leaflet before use. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
30 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After first opening the bottle, use the medicine within 130 days. Store below 30°C. Discard after 130 
days of first opening. 
Date of first opening: __/__/__ 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mirum Pharmaceuticals International B.V. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1704/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Livmarli 9.5 mg/mL oral solution 
maralixibat 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or your child start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may 
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you or your child get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes 
any possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Livmarli is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you or your child take Livmarli 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Livmarli 
Possible side effects 
How to store Livmarli 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Livmarli is and what it is used for 
What is Livmarli 
Livmarli contains the active substance maralixibat. It helps to remove substances called bile acids 
from the body.  
Bile acids are found in digestive fluid called bile which is produced by the liver. Bile acids move from 
the liver into the gut, where they help with digesting food. After helping with digestion, they move 
back into the liver. 
What is Livmarli used for 
Livmarli is used to treat cholestatic pruritus in patients aged 2 months and older who have Alagille 
syndrome (ALGS).  
ALGS is a rare genetic disease that can lead to a build-up of bile acids in the liver. This is called 
cholestasis. Cholestasis may get worse over time and often causes severe itching, fatty deposits under 
the skin (xanthomas), poor growth and feeling tired. 
How does Livmarli (maralixibat) work 
Maralixibat works by reducing build-up of bile acids in the liver. It does this by blocking the bile acids 
from being taken back to the liver once they have done their job in the intestines. This allows bile 
acids to pass out of the body in stools. 
2.  What you need to know before you or your child take Livmarli 
Do not use Livmarli 
- 
if you or your child are allergic to maralixibat or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor if your diarrhoea gets worse while taking Livmarli. If you get diarrhoea, drink 
plenty of liquids so you do not become dehydrated. 
Increased levels in liver enzymes might be seen in liver function tests when taking Livmarli. Before 
you start taking Livmarli, your doctor will measure your liver function to check how well your liver is 
working. Your doctor will do regular checks to monitor your liver function. 
Your doctor may do blood tests before starting and during treatment with Livmarli to check your INR 
(international normalised ratio; a laboratory test to monitor your risk for bleeding) and your levels of 
certain vitamins stored in body fat (vitamin A, D, E, and K). If your vitamin levels are low, your 
doctor may recommend that you take vitamins. 
Some illnesses, medicines or operations may affect how fast food moves through the gut. They can 
also affect how bile acids move between the liver and the gut. This can affect how well maralixibat 
works. Make sure your doctor knows about any illnesses, medicines or operations you have had. 
Children  
Livmarli is not recommended for children under 2 months of age. This is because it is not known yet 
whether it is safe and effective in this age group. 
Other medicines and Livmarli 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal medicines. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
- 
Fluvastatin, rosuvastatin or simvastatin (medicines used to treat high levels of cholesterol in the 
blood) 
Midazolam (a medicine used for sedation or to induce sleep) 
Ursodeoxycholic acid (a medicine used to treat liver disease) 
- 
- 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. If you are pregnant, it is better not to 
take Livmarli.  
Livmarli can be used if you are breast-feeding. It does not get into your bloodstream and therefore is 
not expected to get into your breast milk. However, always follow your doctor’s advice. 
Driving and using machines 
Livmarli has no or very minor influence on the ability to drive or use machines. 
Livmarli contains propylene glycol and sodium 
This medicine contains 364.5 mg propylene glycol in each mL. This is equal to about 10 mcg/kg. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Livmarli 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much to take 
• 
The dose of Livmarli you are given is based on your weight. Your doctor will calculate your 
dose and tell you how much to take and which oral syringe size to use.  
The target dose is 380 micrograms of maralixibat for each kilogram body weight once daily. 
The starting dose is 190 micrograms for each kilogram body weight once daily. 
• 
• 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
This dose will be increased to 380 micrograms for each kilogram body weight once daily after 
one week. Your doctor will tell you when you can increase the dose. They will also tell you how 
much to take and which syringe size to use for the higher dose. 
Taking this medicine 
You can take Livmarli together with food or on an empty stomach up to 30 minutes before eating, in 
the morning. 
Give the dose into the mouth using the oral syringe, and swallow it (see Figure M).   
Do not mix the oral solution with food or drinks. 
Use the table below to make sure you use the correct oral syringe size for your prescribed dose: 
Prescribed dose volume 
(mL) 
0.1 to 0.5 
0.6 to 1 
1.25 to 3 
Oral syringe size 
(mL) 
0.5 
1 
3 
How to take a dose of this medicine 
Step 1: Draw dose 
1.1   To open the bottle, remove the child-resistant closure by pushing down firmly while turning left 
(anti-clockwise) (see Figure A). Do not throw away the child-resistant closure as you will need 
to put it back when you have taken out the dose you need. 
Figure A 
1.2   Make sure you use the correct oral syringe size for your prescribed dose (see table above). Your 
doctor will tell you which syringe size you should use. 
• 
If using a new oral syringe, remove it from the wrapper (see Figure B). Throw away the 
wrapper in the household waste. 
If using a previously used oral syringe, make sure it has been cleaned and is dry (see 2.4 
for instructions for cleaning). 
• 
Figure B 
• 
If there is a cap on the oral syringe, remove it and throw it away in the household waste 
(see Figure C). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure C 
The syringe has dose markings on the barrel. One end of the syringe has a tip that is used to 
insert into the medicine bottle. The other end of the syringe has a flange and a plunger, used to 
push the medicine out of the syringe to give the medicine (see Figure D).  
Figure D 
1.3   Push the plunger down fully to remove air from the syringe (see Figure E). 
Figure E 
1.4   Make sure that the closure is removed from the bottle and insert the tip of the syringe into the 
upright bottle. The tip of the syringe should fit snugly into the hole of the bottle (see Figure F). 
Figure F 
1.5   With the syringe in place, turn the bottle upside down (see Figure G).  
Figure G 
1.6   To withdraw a dose from the bottle, slowly pull back on the plunger until the plunger 
lines up with the marking on the barrel of the syringe that matches the prescribed dose 
25 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see Figure H). There are two kinds of plungers that you might receive with the syringe: a flat 
tip plunger or a pointy tip plunger (see Figure I under 1.6). See Figure I on how to align the 
plunger with your prescribed dose. For a flat tip plunger, the flat end of the plunger should be 
aligned with the marking on the barrel that matches the prescribed dose (Figure I.a.). For a clear 
pointy tip plunger, make sure that the flat, wide part below the tip is lined up with the correct 
marking (Figure I.b.).  
Figure H  
Figure I.a. 
Figure I.b. 
1.7   Check the syringe for air bubbles. If you see any air bubbles: 
• 
• 
Push the air bubbles back into the bottle by pushing the plunger (see Figure J)  
then re-draw the prescribed dose following the instructions in Step 1.6. 
Figure J.a. 
Check for air bubbles 
Figure J.b. 
Push plunger into syringe to remove air bubbles 
1.8   When you have taken up the correct dose with no air bubbles, leave the syringe in the bottle and 
turn the bottle right side up (see Figure K). 
Figure K 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.9   Carefully remove the syringe from the bottle (see Figure L), holding the bottle firmly in one 
hand and holding the syringe by the barrel in the other hand.  
• 
Do not push the syringe plunger during this step. 
Figure L 
Step 2: Give the dose 
Note: You or your child should stay upright while taking the dose and for a few minutes after. 
2.1  
Insert the tip of the oral syringe against the inside of the cheek (see Figure M). 
Slowly press the plunger all the way down to fully and gently squirt the oral solution into the 
mouth (see Figure N). 
Figure M  
Figure N 
2.2   Make sure you/the child swallow(s) the dose. If you are not sure the entire dose was swallowed, 
do not administer another dose. Wait until it is time for the next dose. 
2.3   To close the bottle, screw the child-resistant closure back on the bottle by turning to the right 
(clockwise) (see Figure O). 
Figure O 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4   Remove the plunger from the barrel of the syringe (see Figure P) and wash it with water after 
each use. Allow the plunger to air dry before using again. 
Figure P 
• 
The oral syringes may be rinsed with water, air dried and reused for 130 days.  
If you take more Livmarli than you should 
If you take more Livmarli than you should, tell your doctor. 
If you forget to take Livmarli 
• 
If a dose is missed within 12 hours of the time you or your child usually take(s) Livmarli, take it 
as soon as possible. Then continue taking as usual.  
If a dose is missed by more than 12 hours, do not take the missed dose. Take the next dose at the 
usual time. 
• 
If you stop taking Livmarli 
Do not stop taking Livmarli without first talking with your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. The 
following side effects may happen with this medicine. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
diarrhoea 
stomach (abdominal) pain 
These side effects are usually mild to moderate and can get better during continued treatment with 
Livmarli. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Livmarli 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from light. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the bottle after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once the bottle is open, you should store it below 30°C and use the medicine within 130 days of 
opening. After 130 days, the bottle should be discarded even when it is not empty. Write the opening 
date on the Livmarli bottle. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Livmarli contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is maralixibat chloride. 
Each mL of solution contains maralixibat chloride equivalent to 9.5 mg maralixibat. 
The other ingredients are propylene glycol (E1520) (see section 2 “Livmarli contains propylene 
glycol”), disodium edetate (see section 2 “Livmarli contains propylene glycol and sodium”), 
sucralose, grape flavour, and purified water. 
What Livmarli looks like and contents of the pack 
Livmarli is a clear and colourless to light yellow oral solution. It is stored in a 30 mL amber-coloured 
plastic bottle with a pre-installed adapter and a child-resistant closure with a foam liner. Three sizes of 
oral syringes (0.5 mL, 1 mL and 3 mL) provided in the pack are compatible with the pre-installed 
adapter and reclosable bottle cap. To ensure correct dose of Livmarli, refer to the table in section 3 
(“How to take Livmarli”) for selection of the correct oral syringe size. 
Pack size 
1 bottle with 30 mL and 3 oral syringes (0.5 mL, 1 mL and 3 mL). 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mirum Pharmaceuticals International B.V. 
Kingsfordweg 151 
1043 GR Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands  
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block 7 City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in  
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because of the 
rarity of this disease it has been impossible to get complete information on this medicine. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
