EMA/916339/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005857 
Livmarli (maralixibat chloride) 
An overview of Livmarli and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Livmarli and what is it used for? 
Livmarli is a medicine used for treating patients aged 2 months and older with cholestatic pruritis 
(intense itching due to a build-up of bile) caused by Alagille syndrome.  
Alagille syndrome is an inherited disease in which bile (a fluid produced in the liver that helps to break 
down fats) cannot drain properly from the liver, resulting in a build-up of bile acid in the liver and 
blood. One of the symptoms of this build-up is cholestatic pruritis.  
Alagille syndrome is rare, and Livmarli was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 18 December 2013. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-3-13-1214. 
Livmarli contains the active substance maralixibat chloride. 
How is Livmarli used? 
Treatment with Livmarli must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in treating liver 
diseases such as Alagille syndrome. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Livmarli is available as a solution to be taken by mouth. The dose depends on the patient’s body 
weight and is given once a day. Treatment is started with a low dose which the doctor will increase 
after one week. In case the patient develops certain side effects the dose may have to be reduced or 
treatment interrupted. For patients who do not show an improvement after 3 months the doctor should 
consider an alternative treatment. 
For more information about using Livmarli, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Livmarli work? 
The active substance in Livmarli, maralixibat chloride, blocks the action of a protein called apical 
sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (ASBT), also known as ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT), that 
helps to transport bile acids from the gut back to the blood and liver. By blocking ASBT, the medicine 
reduces the amount of bile acid that is transported from the gut into the liver. This leads to excess bile 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
acid being removed from the body, thereby reducing the build-up of bile acid and relieving the 
symptoms of cholestatic pruritis.  
What benefits of Livmarli have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Livmarli were evaluated in two main studies. In the first study, 31 children aged from 1 
to 18 years with Alagille syndrome were treated with Livmarli for 18 weeks, after which their response 
to treatment was evaluated.  
The 29 patients who had a decrease in the levels of bile acids in their blood of at least 50% following 
the initial 18-week treatment with the medicine were subsequently assigned to receive either placebo 
(dummy treatment) or Livmarli for 4 weeks. Results showed that patients who continued treatment 
with Livmarli for 4 weeks still had a reduction in the level of bile acid while those who switched 
treatment to placebo had significant increases. After this 4-week period, all patients received Livmarli 
again. When the patients who took placebo resumed treatment with Livmarli, their blood levels 
reduced to levels previously observed with Livmarli. The study also showed that treatment with 
Livmarli improved symptoms of itching associated with the disease.  
In the second study, involving 8 children aged from 2 months to less than 1 year, Livmarli was not 
compared with any other treatment or placebo. Results of the study showed that after 13 weeks of 
treatment, patients had, on average, an improvement in symptoms of itching associated with the 
disease and a reduction in the level of bile acids in their blood. 
What are the risks associated with Livmarli? 
The most common side effects with Livmarli (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are diarrhoea 
and abdominal pain (belly ache). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Livmarli, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Livmarli authorised in the EU? 
Alagille is a life-threatening disease; at the time of authorisation of Livmarli, there was no other 
approved treatment for this disease. As it is a very rare disease, the studies were small and subject to 
limitations, but Livmarli was shown to be effective at reducing the amount of bile acid in the blood of 
patients with the disease and improving symptoms related to this, such as intense itching. Although 
the data on the safety of Livmarli are limited and further data needs to be gathered, the side effects 
seen to date are considered acceptable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that 
Livmarli’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Livmarli has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Livmarli due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the 
European Medicines Agency will review any new information that becomes available, and this overview 
will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Livmarli? 
Since Livmarli has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Livmarli will provide yearly updates on any new information concerning the safety and efficacy of 
Livmarli. In addition, the company will conduct and submit the results of a study to further 
characterise the long-term safety and efficacy of the medicine for the treatment of cholestatic pruritis.  
Livmarli (maralixibat chloride)  
EMA/916339/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Livmarli? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Livmarli have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Livmarli are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Livmarli are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Livmarli 
Livmarli received a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances valid throughout the EU 
on 9 December 2022. 
Further information on Livmarli can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/livmarli   
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Livmarli (maralixibat chloride)  
EMA/916339/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
