Summary of risk management plan for LIVOGIVA 
injection (Teriparatide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for LIVOGIVA injection. The RMP details 
important risks of LIVOGIVA injection. 
LIVOGIVA injection's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how LIVOGIVA injection should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for LIVOGIVA injection should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all that is part of 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of LIVOGIVA 
injection's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
LIVOGIVA injection is authorised for treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men 
at increased risk of fracture. Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic 
glucocorticoid therapy in women and men at increased risk for fracture (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains teriparatide as the active substance and it is given by the subcutaneous route of 
administration.  
Further information about the evaluation of LIVOGIVA injection’s benefits can be found in LIVOGIVA 
injection’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/livogiva. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  LIVOGIVA  injection,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about LIVOGIVA injection's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of LIVOGIVA injection are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of LIVOGIVA injection. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
LIVOGIVA injection. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for LIVOGIVA injection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
