25 May 2023
EMA/281620/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s)
Active substance(s): edoxaban
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010387/202210
Period covered by the PSUR: 22/10/2021 To: 21/10/2022
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for edoxaban, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:
In view of available data on risk of drug drug interaction (DDI) between clarithromycin and edoxaban 
from the literature and spontaneous reports the PRAC considers clarithromycin significantly increases the 
exposure of edoxaban but the magnitude of the DDI is not expected to be clinically relevant however the 
statement related to the interaction between edoxaban and clarithromycin allows the prescriber to know 
that he can associate the two products without any dose adjustments. The PRAC concluded that the 
product information of products containing edoxaban should be amended accordingly.
In view of available data on anticoagulant-related nephropathy (ARN) from literature and the 
spontaneous reports some confirmed by renal biopsy, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between 
edoxaban and anticoagulant-related nephropathy is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded 
that the product information of products containing edoxaban should be amended accordingly.
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for edoxaban the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing edoxaban is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied.
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
EMA/281620/2023
Page 2/2
