PART IV  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR EDOXABAN  
This is a summary of the RMP for edoxaban.  The RMP details important risks of edoxaban, how 
these risks can be minimised, and how additional information will be obtained about edoxaban's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Edoxaban’s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how edoxaban should be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of edoxaban’s 
RMP. 
I 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Edoxaban is authorised for prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with 
NVAF and treatment of VTE including DVT and PE, and prevention of recurrent VTE in adults 
(see the SmPC for the full indication).  It contains the anhydrous free base of edoxaban tosylate 
as the active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of edoxaban, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about edoxaban's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be as follows: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including by PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of edoxaban are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be taken safely orally. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of edoxaban.  Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table Part  II.1:  Lists of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information (from Part II: Module SVIII) 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Bleeding or Bleeding due to: 
• Drug interaction in combination with other drugs known to increase 
the risk of bleeding eg, aspirin, NSAID 
• Inappropriate administration of the 60-mg dose /inadvertent overdose 
by use of the 60-mg dose, eg in combination with use of strong P-gp 
inhibitors; in patients with low body weight ≤60 kg; and in patients 
with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCL 15–50 mL/min) 
• Hepatic dysfunction 
• Trend towards decreasing efficacy in NVAF subjects with high CrCL 
• Lack of reversal agent 
• Reproductive and development toxicity (Pregnancy and lactation) 
• Patients with hepatic impairment 
• Patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL <30 mL/min) or end-
stage renal disease (CrCL <15 mL/min or on dialysis) 
• Patients with mechanical heart valves 
• Combination with dual antiplatelet therapy 
• Off-label use in Europe in populations or indications outside the 
approved indications per European SmPC 
CrCL = creatinine clearance; NSAID = nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; NVAF = nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; 
P-gp = P-glycoprotein; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics 
 
 
 
II.B 
Bleeding or Bleeding Due to: 
Summary of Important Risks 
•  Drug interaction in combination with other drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding, eg, 
• 
aspirin, NSAIDs 
Inappropriate administration of the 60-mg dose /inadvertent overdose by use of the 60-mg dose, 
eg in combination with use of strong P-gp inhibitors; in patients with low body weight ≤60 kg; 
and in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (CrCL 15–50 mL/min)  
Risk minimisation measures 
• SmPC/PIL 
• Prescription-only medicine 
• Educational package including: 
−  Prescriber Guide  
−  Patient Alert Card 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• None 
Hepatic Dysfunction 
Risk minimisation measures 
• SmPC/PIL 
• Prescription only medicine 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• None 
Trend Towards Decreasing Efficacy in NVAF Subjects with High Creatinine Clearance 
Risk minimisation measures 
• SmPC 
• Prescription-only medicine  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• None 
Missing Information (including reversibility, pregnancy and lactation, hepatic impairment, renal 
impairment, mechanical heart valves, combination with antiplatelets and off-label use)  
Risk minimisation measures 
• SmPC/PIL 
• Prescription-only medicine 
• Prescriber Guide 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• Anticoagulant reversal programme 
• None 
CrCL = creatinine clearance; NSAID = nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; NVAF = nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; 
P-gp = P-glycoprotein; PIL = patient information leaflet; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
edoxaban. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Drug Utilisation Study (DSE-EDO-01-14-EU) 
Purpose of the study: To assess off-label use in the EU. This study is completed. 
Prescription Survey Study 
Purpose of the study: To measure the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures and 
educational programmes in European countries using edoxaban for its approved indications 
educational materials for HCP and patients. This study is completed. 
PASS: ETNA-AF-Europe (DSE-EDO-04-14-EU) 
Purpose of the study: To collect real-world safety data on bleeding events including intracranial 
haemorrhage, drug related adverse events such as liver adverse events, cardiovascular (CV) and 
all-cause mortality in AF patients treated with edoxaban up to 4 years. This study is completed. 
PASS: ETNA-VTE-Europe (DSE-EDO-05-14-EU) 
Purpose of the study: To collect real world safety data on bleeding events, drug related adverse 
events such as liver adverse events, and mortality (VTE-related and all-cause) in VTE patients 
treated with edoxaban. This study is completed. 
PAM (DU176b-C-E314): Edoxaban in Atrial Fibrillation and High Creatinine Clearance 
Purpose of the study: To compare the exposure (based on Cav, Cmin, and Anti-FXa) of an 
edoxaban 75-mg QD dose in patients with CrCL >100 mL/min to that of an edoxaban 60-mg QD 
dose seen in the same patients treated for 12 months. This study is completed. 
