EMA/858283/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005488 
Locametz (gozetotide) 
An overview of Locametz and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Locametz and what is it used for? 
Locametz is a diagnostic medicine used in adults with prostate cancer to detect prostate cancer cells 
with a protein called prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) using the body scan known as 
positron-emission tomography (PET). 
It is used: 
• 
• 
• 
to find out whether prostate cancer has spread to lymph nodes and other tissues outside the 
prostate before curative treatment is started;  
to find out whether prostate cancer has returned in patients whose blood levels of prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) are increasing after previous curative treatment; 
to find out whether patients have PSMA-positive progressive metastatic castration-resistant 
prostate cancer, which may be suitable for a specific therapy called PSMA-targeted therapy. 
Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer is cancer that has spread to other parts of the body 
despite treatment to lower testosterone levels, including surgical removal of the testes. 
Before use, the medicine is coupled (radiolabelled) with a radioactive substance called gallium (68Ga) 
so that it can carry radioactivity to the site of the cancer cells and allow detection of these cells using 
PET. 
Locametz contains the active substance gozetotide. 
How is Locametz used? 
The medicine can only be given in a designated nuclear medicine facility by trained healthcare 
professionals with technical expertise in using and handling nuclear medicine imaging agents. 
Locametz is never given to a patient on its own. Before it is given it must be radiolabelled with gallium 
(68Ga). The radiolabelled Locametz is then given as a slow injection into a vein at a dose depending on 
the patient’s weight, and a PET scan is done after the injection.  
For more information about using Locametz, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Locametz work? 
The active substance of Locametz, gozetotide, binds to PSMA, which is found in large numbers on the 
surface of most prostate cancer cells. When Locametz is radiolabelled with gallium (68Ga) and given to 
a patient, it binds to PSMA and is taken up by the cells and gives off radiation, which can be detected 
with a PET scan. This allows the doctors to see where in the body the cancer cells are. 
What benefits of Locametz have been shown in studies? 
Several published studies have supported the usefulness of gozetotide that has been radiolabelled with 
gallium (68Ga) as a sensitive and accurate diagnostic medicine to detect if prostate cancer has returned 
or spread or if cancer cells contain PSMA.  
What are the risks associated with Locametz? 
The most common side effects with gallium (68Ga)-radiolabelled Locametz are tiredness (which may 
affect up to 1 in 10 people), nausea (feeling sick), constipation and vomiting (which may affect up to 1 
in 100 people). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Locametz, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Locametz authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that the use of gallium (68Ga)-radiolabelled Locametz was 
well documented in the scientific literature, with data suggesting that gallium (68Ga)-radiolabelled 
Locametz may offer improvements over existing methods for detecting prostate cancer that has not 
yet been treated or has returned, or for screening patients who may benefit from PSMA-targeted 
treatment. Locametz’s side effects were usually mild and its safety profile was considered acceptable. 
The Agency therefore decided that Locametz’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Locametz? 
The company that markets Locametz will provide medical practitioners who are expected to use 
gallium (68Ga)-radiolabelled Locametz with educational materials to support interpretation of PET 
scans. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Locametz have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Locametz are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Locametz are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Locametz 
Locametz received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 December 2022.  
Further information on Locametz can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/locametz    
This overview was last updated in 12-2022.  
Locametz (gozetotide)  
EMA/858283/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
