15 September 2016 
EMA/671145/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): lomitapide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010112/201601 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 August 2015 to 31 January 2016  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lomitapide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Regarding diarrhoea and dehydration, cumulatively there were six cases (including two serious 
cases) of dehydration and all these cases also reported diarrhoea. Diarrhoea is a known effect of 
lomitapide and it is known that diarrhoea can result in serious dehydration which, as described in the 
two serious cases, can sometimes lead to hospitalisation. Since patients may use lomitapide for a 
long period, gastrointestinal effects including diarrhoea or vomiting (which both occur very commonly 
among lomitapide users) may also persist for a long period and hence lomitapide users are at 
increased risk of developing dehydration. Although dehydration may be an indirect effect of 
lomitapide use and related to other gastrointestinal effects of lomitapide, the MAH’s proposal to 
include this safety information in the product information is accepted since healthcare professionals 
and patients should become aware of the risk of dehydration with lomitapide use. 
Regarding the signal myalgia/myopathy, the MAH provided further information on the reported non-
serious muscle related events of which the majority concerned myalgia (68 out of the 120 cases 
reported). Due to existence of reports with probable causality, especially in view of positive 
dechallenge and the fact that the reaction was observed also in clinical trials for one of the indications 
(elevated LDL), it is considered likely that lomitapide might cause myalgia also in patients with HoFH. 
Therefore, the MAH's proposal to include this safety information in the product information is agreed. 
Although the number of reported alopecia cases is rather low overall, it should be taken into account 
that there might be considerable underreporting for this non-serious adverse event. There are three 
conclusive cases with positive dechallenge and a potential mechanism exists through which 
lomitapide might cause alopecia i.e. malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins. Therefore, the MAH's 
proposal to include this ADR in the product information is endorsed. It is agreed this should be 
considered an identified, albeit non-important risk.  
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing lomitapide were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lomitapide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing lomitapide is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/671145/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
