25 September 2014  
EMA/CHMP/654103/2014   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Lojuxta 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: lomitapide 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/002578/PSUV/0008 
Period covered by the PSUR: 31 July 2013 – 31 January 2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Lojuxta, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
The MAH has reviewed the categorisation of the CYP 3A4 inhibitors ritonavir and tipranavir. Ritonavir 
and tipranavir are currently listed in section 4.5 of the SmPC as weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Ritonavir is 
primarily used as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. All recommended combinations with ritonavir should be 
labelled as moderate or strong inhibitors according to the University of Washington database. As the 
concomitant  use  of  moderate  or  strong  CYP3A4  inhibitors  with  Lojuxta  is  contraindicated,  Lojuxta 
should  not  be  combined  with  ritonavir  or  ritonavir-enhanced  highly  active  antiretroviral  therapy 
(HAART) for HIV. Although tipranavir as monotherapy may be classified as an inducer and an inhibitor 
of cytochrome CYP3A, it should always be co-administered with ritonavir as a enhancer and at the 
recommended dosage. There is a potent net inhibition of CYP3A. There is no  need to mention this 
combination  of  drugs  specifically,  as 
ritonavir  boosted  HAART 
includes 
therapy  with 
tipranavir/ritonavir. Ritonavir and tipranavir are therefore both strong inhibitors and the PRAC agreed 
to remove them from the list of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors in section 4.5 of the SmPC.  
Therefore, in view of available data regarding the CYP3A4 inhibitors ritonavir and tipranavir, the PRAC 
considered that changes to the product information were warranted. The CHMP agrees with the scientific 
conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Lojuxta, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance lomitapide is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
