VI: 
PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
FOR LOKELMA (SODIUM ZIRCONIUM CYCLOSILICATE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for LOKELMA. The RMP details 
important risks of LOKELMA, how these risks may be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about LOKELMA's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
LOKELMA 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how LOKELMA should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for LOKELMA should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
LOKELMA's RMP. 
 
VI: 1 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
LOKELMA is authorised for the treatment of hypokalaemia in adult patients. It contains 
sodium zirconium cyclosilicate as a powder, which is suspended in water and swallowed. 
Further information about the evaluation of LOKELMA’s benefits can be found in 
LOKELMA’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/004029/hu
man_med_002084.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124  
VI: 2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER 
CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of LOKELMA together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about LOKELMA's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action may be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of LOKELMA is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
VI: 2.1  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of LOKELMA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product may be safely administered. 
Important risks may be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of LOKELMA. Potential risks are 
 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table VI-1 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing Information 
None 
None 
None  
VI: 2.2 
Summary of important risks 
None. 
VI: 2.3  Post-authorisation development plan 
VI: 2.3.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation or a specific 
obligation for LOKELMA. 
VI: 2.3.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for LOKELMA. 
 
