Summary of Risk Management Plan for Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma Powder 
and Solvent for Solution for Injection in cartridge (Lonapegsomatropin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis 
Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in cartridge. The RMP details important 
risks of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in 
cartridge, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about the risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis 
Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in cartridge should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for 
solution for injection in cartridge should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current risks will be included in updates of 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in 
cartridge's RMP. 
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in 
cartridge is authorised for growth failure in children and adolescents aged 3 up to 18 years 
due to insufficient endogenous growth hormone secretion (growth hormone deficiency, 
[GHD]) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains lonapegsomatropin as the active 
substance and it is given by subcutaneous route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis 
Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in cartridge can be found in the EPAR 
for Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for solution for injection in 
cartridge, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lonapegsomatropin-ascendis-
pharma. 
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS  
Important risks of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma powder and solvent for solution for 
injection in cartridge, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about the risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
*Near adult height can be defined as:  
Height velocity < 2 cm/year over at least 9 months and 
  Chronological age > 16 years (males) or > 15 years (females)  or 
  Bone age > 16 years (males) and > 15 years (females)  
 
