EMA/740430/2021 
EMEA/H/C/005367 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma 
(lonapegsomatropin) 
An overview of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma and why it is authorised 
in the EU 
What is Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma and what is it used for? 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma is a medicine that is used to improve growth in children and 
adolescents who do not produce enough growth hormone (growth hormone deficiency or GHD). The 
medicine is intended for children and adolescents from 3 up to 18 years of age. 
GHD is rare, and Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a 
medicine used in rare diseases) on 17 October 2019. Further information on the orphan designation 
can be found here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3192213.  
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma contains the active substance lonapegsomatropin. 
How is Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma used? 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be 
started and monitored by a doctor who is qualified and experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
GHD in children. 
The medicine is available as an injection of various strengths, to be given under the skin once a week. 
The starting dose depends on body weight and is then adjusted individually by the doctor based on 
response. Patients or their caregivers can inject the dose themselves after appropriate training. 
For more information about using Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma work? 
Growth hormone is released by the pituitary gland (a gland at the base of the brain). It is important for 
growth during childhood and adolescence, and it also affects how the body handles proteins, fat and 
carbohydrates. The active substance in the medicine, lonapegsomatropin,is a version of human growth 
hormone (somatropin) that has been attached to a ‘carrier’ that protects it from being removed from 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Un on   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the body too quickly. The medicine slowly releases growth hormone into the body after injection, 
meaning that injections do not have to be given every day 
What benefits of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma have been shown in 
studies? 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma given once weekly in equivalent doses has been shown to be as 
effective as daily somatropin injections in a main study involving 161 patients aged 3 to 12 years with 
previously untreated GHD. The study measured the average rate of growth (height velocity) over a 
year, which was 11.2 cm per year in the group given lonapegsomatropin and 10.3 cm per year in those 
given daily somatropin (average growth rate in both groups before treatment was 3.9 cm per year). 
The company also presented the results of supportive studies including patients who had previously 
had growth hormone treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma? 
The most common side effects with Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma (which may affect up to 
around 1 in 10 people) are headache, joint pain, secondary hypothyroidism (a type of low thyroid 
function) and reactions at the injection site such as redness, pain, itching or swelling. 
For the full list of side effects of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma, see the package leaflet. 
Growth hormone medicines like Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma must not be used if the patient 
has an active tumour or an acute life-threatening illness. The medicine must also not be used for 
promoting growth in children with closed epiphyses (when the large bones have finished growing). For 
the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. The medicine was shown to be 
effective both in patients previously treated with growth hormone and newly diagnosed patients who 
had not yet been treated, and the weekly injections were preferred by most patients. The short-term 
safety appears to be in line with other growth hormone products; although any longer-term risk from 
the carrier part of the active substance seems unlikely, this will be closely monitored after marketing. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma have been included in the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma are continuously 
monitored. Suspected side effects reported with Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma are carefully 
evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma 
Further information on Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lonapegsomatropin-ascendis-pharma.  
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma (lonapegsomatropin)  
EMA/740430/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
