Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim) (herein 
after also referred to as lipegfilgrastim). The RMP details important risks of lipegfilgrastim, and 
how more information will be obtained about lipegfilgrastim´s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Lipegfilgrastim´s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how lipegfilgrastim should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for lipegfilgrastim should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
lipegfilgrastim´s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for
Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim) is authorised in adults and in children 2years of age and older for 
reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in patients 
treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid 
leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
lipegfilgrastim as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Lonquex’s benefits can be found in Lonquex’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lonquex. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of lipegfilgrastim, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about lipegfilgrastim´s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Lonquex are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Lonquex. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1: 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Not applicable. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Lipegfilgrastim. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Lipegfilgrastim. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
