28 February 2019 
EMA/CHMP/224963/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): lipegfilgrastim 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010111/201807 
Period covered by the PSUR: 26 July 2018 to 25 July 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lipegfilgrastim, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Cumulatively up to 25 July 2018, a total of 48 case reports of nausea with lipegfilgrastim were identified. 
Whilst it is understood that most of the cases of nausea occurred in patients who may have been receiving 
chemotherapy concomitantly, 21 cases of nausea have occurred in patients with no underlying 
malignancy or concomitant chemotherapy. Nausea is listed as an undesirable effect for the class of G-CSF 
products. Furthermore, the data reviewed to date provide evidence of a possible causal association 
between lipegfilgrastim and nausea. Therefore, the proposal to include the undesirable effect of nausea 
under the frequency ‘very common’ in the product information for lipegfilgrastim is acceptable. 
A cumulative review identified a total 915 reports of musculoskeletal pain symptoms reported with 
lipegfilgrastim. The majority of the reports (868; 94.86%) were non-serious and 48 reports (5.25%) were 
serious. It is agreed with the MAH that the percentage of patients who developed musculoskeletal pain 
assessed as serious is significantly lower than patients whose pain was assessed as non-serious. There 
are potential confounding factors for musculoskeletal pain such as the underlying malignancy and its 
complications, concomitant use of chemotherapeutic agents and potentially other unreported medical 
conditions. However, the available 48 serious cases of musculoskeletal pain provide evidence of a possible 
causal association with lipegfilgrastim. It is fully agreed with the MAH that the SmPC and Package Leaflet 
should be updated to include information that serious musculoskeletal pain reactions have been reported 
with lipegfilgrastim and that some cases have been unresponsive to standard analgesics leading to 
hospitalisation; and that in some of these cases stronger analgesics such as opioids were required. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lipegfilgrastim the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing lipegfilgrastim is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/224963/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
