30 May 2013 
EMA/371234/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Lonquex 
International non-proprietary name: lipegfilgrastim 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002556/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 7 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 28 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 38 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 78 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 96 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................. 101 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 101 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 106 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 2/108 
 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Term 
ADA 
AE 
ANC 
ANCOVA 
ANOVA 
AOBEC 
ALP 
AP 
ATP 
BRC 
BW 
CA 
CAS  
CE 
CHMP 
CI 
CL/f 
Cmax 
COPD 
CPA 
CPMP 
CRF 
CSR 
CTX 
CV 
DDL 
DIC 
DSMB 
DSN 
DVT 
ECG 
ECL 
E. Coli 
ELISA 
EMA 
EMEA 
EORTC 
EU 
FDA 
FN 
GCP 
GGT 
G-CSF 
GLP 
GM-CSF 
hG-CSF 
HR 
Hb 
HR 
ICF 
ICH 
Explanation 
Anti-drug antibodies 
Adverse event 
Absolute neutrophil count 
Analysis of covariance 
Analysis of variance 
Area over the baseline effect curve 
Alkaline phosphatase 
Alkaline phosphatase 
According-to-protocol 
Blinded review committee 
Body weight 
Cancer 
Chemical abstracts service 
European Community 
Committee on Human Medicinal Products 
Confidence interval 
Total body clearance 
Maximum drug concentration in plasma/serum 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
Cyclophosphamide 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products 
Case report form 
Clinical study report 
Chemortherapy 
coefficient of variation 
Drug dispensation log 
Disseminated Intravascular Coagulopathy 
Data safety monitoring board 
Duration of severe neutropenia 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Electrocardiogram 
Electrochemiluminescence 
Escherichia coli 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
European Medicines Agency 
European Medicines Agency 
European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Febrile neutropenia 
Good clinical practice 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase 
Granulocyte colony stimulating factor 
Good laboratory practice 
Granulocyte-Macrophage colony-stimulating factor 
human Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
Hazard Ratio 
Haemoglobin 
Heart rate 
Informed consent form 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 3/108 
 
  
  
Term 
ICU 
IMP 
IND 
INN 
IPC 
ISS 
ITT 
kd 
LDH 
LLN 
LLoQ 
LOCF 
LS 
MCB 
MedDRA 
Min 
MPA 
MRSA 
MRT 
NSCLC 
PD(s) 
PDCO 
PEG 
Ph. Eur. 
PK(s) 
PIP 
PT 
Pts 
QoL 
RBC 
RH 
r-metHuG-
CSF 
SAE 
SAP 
s.c./SC 
SD 
SmPC 
SOC 
SOC 
SPC 
TBSA 
TEADR 
TEAE 
Thr134 
tmax 
UK 
ULN 
ULOQ 
USA 
USAN 
UTI 
vs. 
WBC 
Explanation 
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Intensive care unit 
Investigational medicinal product 
Investigational new drug 
International Non-proprietary Name 
In-Process Control 
Integrated safety summary 
Intention-to-treat 
Kilodalton 
Lactate dehydrogenase 
Lower limit of normal 
Lower limit of Quantitation 
Last observation carried forward 
Least square 
Master Cell Bank 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Minute(s) 
Medical Products Agency 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus 
Mean residence time 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pharmacodynamic(s) 
Paediatric Committee 
Polyethylene glycol 
European Pharmacopeia 
Pharmacokinetics(s) 
Paediatric investigation plan 
Preferred Term 
Patients 
Quality of life 
Red blood cell 
Relative Humidity 
Recombinant N-methionyl granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan 
Subcutaneous 
Standard deviation 
Summary of product characteristics 
System organ class (MedDRA) 
Standard of care 
Summary of product characteristics 
Total body surface area 
Treatment-emergent adverse drug reaction 
Treatment emergent adverse event 
Threonine residue 
Time to obtain (or reach) maximum concentration 
United Kingdom 
Upper limit of normal 
Upper limit of quantification 
United States of America 
United States Adopted Name 
Urinary tract infection 
Versus 
white blood cell 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 4/108 
 
  
  
Term 
WCB 
λz 
Explanation 
Working Cell Bank 
Terminal phase rate constant 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 5/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 29 November 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Lonquex,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and 
the  incidence  of  febrile  neutropenia  in  patients  treated  with  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  for 
malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA 
Decision(s): P/112/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP: P/112/2011 was not yet completed as 
some measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible 
similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan 
medicinal product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance lipegfilgrastim contained in the above medicinal 
product to be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is 
not a constituent of a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 24 September 2009.  The Scientific 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 6/108 
 
  
  
Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Merckle Biotec GmbH 
Dornierstraße 10 
D-89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Europe B.V. 
Swensweg 5  
NL-2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur: Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 29 November 2011. 
•  The procedure started on 21 December 2011.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 March 
2012 . The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members 
on 9 March 2012.  
•  During the meeting on 16-19 April 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to 
the applicant on 20 April 2012. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 12 
September 2012. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on 30 October 2012. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 18-21 November 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the 
applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 14 
February 2013. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 7/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 7 March 2013. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 18-21 March 2013, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
• 
• 
• 
During the CHMP meeting on 18-21 March 2013, the CHMP agreed on a 2nd list of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the 
applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP 2nd List of Outstanding Issues on 29 
April 2013. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
2nd List of Outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 16 May 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 27-30 May 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Lonquex.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy suppresses the hematopoietic system causing profound and sometimes 
prolonged neutropenia. Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia is the major dose-limiting toxicity of 
systemic cancer chemotherapy. It may result in hospitalisation for treatment of fever or cause 
potentially fatal infection.  Such complications of chemotherapy treatment often result in dose 
reduction or treatment delay which may compromise clinical outcome. Risk factors for cytotoxic 
chemotherapy-induced neutropenia are: advanced age, female sex, poor performance status, 
poor nutritional status and low baseline and first cycle nadir blood cell count along with high 
chemotherapy dose intensity.  Some chemotherapy regimens are more myelosuppressive than 
others. High cyclophosphamide dose, etoposide and high anthracycline doses have been 
identified as significant predictors for severe neutropenia. 
Prophylactic antibacterial, antifungal, and antiviral agents have been administered to prevent the 
development of infection as a complication of neutropenia. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
(G-CSF) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are used to reduce the 
duration and degree of neutropenia. G-CSF increases the proliferation and differentiation of 
neutrophils from progenitor cells, induces maturation and enhances the survival and function of 
mature neutrophils.  
According to the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 
guideline, primary prophylactic G-CSF treatment is recommended in case the overall risk of 
febrile neutropenia (FN) for a patient is ≥20%. When using chemotherapy regimens associated 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 8/108 
 
  
  
with a FN risk of 10-20%, particular attention should be given to the assessment of patient 
characteristics that may increase the overall risk of FN (Aapro et al., EJC, 2006; 42: 2433-53).  
Evidence from multiple randomised trials supports the benefit of primary prophylaxis in reducing 
the frequency of hospitalisation for antibiotic therapy, documented infection, and rates of 
neutropenic fever in adults. The impact on survival is less clear (Kuderer et al., J. Clin Oncol 
2007; 25:3158).  
Recombinant hG-CSF (filgrastim) has been introduced in clinical use since 1991 under the trade 
name Neupogen. Recombinant hG-CSF is produced in E. coli. Its amino acid sequence is identical 
to that of natural human G-CSF, except for the addition of an N-terminal methionine necessary 
for the expression in E. coli and it is not glycosylated. The PEGylated formulation of G-CSF (trade 
name Neulasta), a recombinant N-methionyl form of human G-CSF, covalently bound to a single 
20 kDa PEG molecule, is produced in Escherichia coli cells and is also modified with the addition 
of the N-terminal methionine. It has a prolonged half-life, permitting the administration of a 
single dose after each (generally weekly) chemotherapy cycle rather than daily administration. 
About the product 
The natural human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a glycoprotein composed of 
a single polypeptide chain of 174 or 177 amino acids  and is glycosylated at Threonin133 
(Thr133). It: 
• 
• 
• 
regulates the proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells within the bone marrow and 
the release of mature neutrophils into the peripheral blood 
is a positive regulator of granulopoiesis, acting at different stages of myeloid cell 
development  
enhances the effector functions of normal mature neutrophils, including chemotaxis, 
phagocytosis and oxidative metabolism  
exerting its effects via a high-affinity G-CSF-specific receptor mechanism, which accounts for its 
selective action compared to many other cytokines. 
Lonquex  is  a  glycoPEGylated  r-metHuG-CSF  that  has  been  developed  for  the  prevention  of 
chemotherapy  induced  neutropenia.  It  is  produced  by  site  specific  enzyme  mediated  covalent 
attachment of a single 20 kDa polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule via a glycolinker to the natural 
O-glycosylation site at threonine residue (Thr134) of recombinant r-met-Hu-G-CSF. By means of 
this  glycoPEGylation  the  PD  effect  is  prolonged  compared  to  non-(glyco-)  PEGylated  filgrastim. 
The  name  XM22  has  been  used  during  development  both  for  the  active  substance 
(lipegfilgrastim) and for the finished product (Lonquex) and it is also used in this report to refer 
to either of these. 
The indication applied for is: reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception 
of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
The finally approved indication is: reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia in adult patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with 
the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 9/108 
 
  
  
The  dosing  recommended  for  Lonquex  is  6  mg  (a  single  pre-filled  syringe  of  Lonquex)  for  each 
chemotherapy  cycle  and  should  be  given  approximately  24  hours  after  cytotoxic  chemotherapy 
via the subcutaneous (SC) route. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Lonquex is a sterile, preservative free solution for injection, containing 6 mg of lipegfilgrastim 
active pharmaceutical ingredient at a concentration of 10 mg/mL. The concentration is declared 
based on protein content. Lonquex is presented in a 1 mL type I glass pre-filled syringe to be 
stored in refrigerator. The solution is formulated with sodium acetate (formed by titrating acetic 
acid with sodium hydroxide), Sorbitol and Polysorbate 20. The pH is adjusted to 5.0.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Lipegfilgrastim is a conjugate of recombinant N-methionyl human granulocyte-colony stimulating 
factor (r met-Hu-G-CSF, Filgrastim) and a single polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecule. To generate 
Lipegfilgrastim, a PEG molecule is covalently attached, via a carbohydrate linker, to filgrastim at 
Threonine134. This site-specific glycoPEGylation is achieved through sequential action of two 
recombinant glycosyltransferase enzymes, with activated sugar nucleotide donor substrates.  
The theoretical molecular mass of r-metHuG-CSF is 18,798.9 Da. The molecular mass of the final 
glycoPEGylated human N-methionyl granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (lipegfilgrastim) is 
approximately 39,000 Da. 
Lipegfilgrastim can be assigned to the pharmacological class of chemically defined anti-
neutropenia drugs. Anti-neutropenia products authorised for marketing are indicated to elevate 
or maintain the white blood cell level. Administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
results in stimulation of pluripotent stem cells that initiates proliferation and differentiation into 
mature granulocytes. 
Manufacture 
The manufacturing process for lipegfilgrastim is separated into two parts: 
• 
• 
preparation of the G-CSF intermediate protein XM21 (filgrastim intermediate); and  
preparation of lipegfilgrastim, the glycoPEGylated drug substance. 
The synthesis and purification of the intermediate filgrastim, the glycoPEGylation including the 
two key reagents and the manufacture of the two recombinant enzymes and the final purification 
are described.  
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 10/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Filgrastim intermediate 
Filgrastim intermediate is expressed in E. coli cells by recombinant DNA technology.  
The first step of the manufacturing process starts with the thawing of a vial from the WCB, a pre-
fermentation culture, followed by the main fermentation.  The expression of filgrastim is 
regulated by a promoter inducible by temperature shift. The protein is recovered in inclusion 
bodies and purified by chromatography.  Filgrastim then undergoes several filtration steps, and is 
diluted and sterile-filtered directly into a bag for storage. 
Although filgrastim is an intermediate in the process, it is manufactured, formulated released and 
characterised to an extent identical to a drug substance with a suitable specification set.  
The applicant identifies two hold steps in the production of filgrastim intermediate – supporting 
data are provided.  There is no reprocessing at any stage. 
Lipegfilgrastim 
To generate lipegfilgrastim, a linear 20kDa PEG molecule is covalently attached, via a 
carbohydrate linker, to filgrastim intermediate. This modification is achieved in vitro through 
sequential action of two recombinant glycosyltransferase enzymes, with activated sugar 
nucleotide donor substrates. 
The final monoPEGylated lipegfilgrastim contains a total mPEG mass of about 20 kDa, presented 
as a linear 20 kDa mPEG chain.  
The lipegfilgrastim obtained in the glycoPEGylation reaction is purified by filtration and 
chromatography. The lipegfilgrastim pool is concentrated and filtered with the drug substance 
formulation buffer, and after adjustment of its concentration, sterile-filtered and aliquoted into 
bottles for storage as lipegfilgrastim bulks. 
There is no reprocessing at any stage. 
Manufacturing Controls 
The applicant has identified relevant parameters for the manufacturing process of filgrastim 
intermediate and lipegfilgrastim and instigated appropriate in-process controls based on classical 
process validation studies.  The in-process control steps and acceptance criteria applied during 
filgrastim intermediate protein purification and subsequent glycoPEGylation and purification have 
been listed. No reprocessing is allowed as stated by the company.   
Control of starting material 
Raw  materials  used  during  the  generation  of  lipegfilgrastim  are  purchased  from  qualified 
suppliers according to agreed specifications.  
Filgrastim  intermediate:  The  source  and  generation  of  the  cell  substrate  are  satisfactorily 
described. The production strain is characterised and the nucleotide sequence for the vector has 
been confirmed. The production process for the MCB/WCB is detailed, the absence of the use of 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 11/108 
 
  
  
 
 
materials  of  animal/human  origin  confirmed,  media  composition  provided  and  adequate 
characterisation data given.  
Raw materials or reagents are controlled to PhEur specifications (where available) or include an 
appropriate panel of quality tests (including assay and identity). Appropriate statements stating 
where relevant that the materials are not from animal/human origin are provided. 
Two starting materials, which are enzymes necessary for the pegylation of filgrastim 
intermediate, are from biological source. Both enzymes are recombinant and either derived from 
E. coli or from CHO cells. For each material, adequate information is provided on manufacturing 
process, process controls, analytical methods and validation, characterisation, safety aspects and 
stability. Overall, the specifications for biological raw materials are satisfactory and batch 
analytical data provided show that the pre-set specifications are met. 
Process validation 
Overall,  the  filgrastim  intermediate  fermentation  stage,  filgrastim  intermediate  bulk  purification 
stages and lipegfilgrastim manufacturing stage have been satisfactorily validated. The processes 
have  been  shown  to  be  reproducible  and  meet  pre-set  IPCs/specifications.  A  validation  of  the 
transfer of filgrastim intermediate and lipegfilgrastim was performed. The applicant justifies that 
transportation has no impact on the formation of aggregates. 
Characterisation 
The applicant has used a wide panel of methods to characterise filgrastim intermediate and 
lipegfilgrastim.  These include a number of traditional tests (mass, primary and higher order 
structure, SDS-PAGE, western blotting, amino-acid analysis, peptide mapping, disulphide bridge 
analysis, potency (proliferation assay)). For lipegfilgrastim, there are additional tests to confirm 
the site of pegylation and carbohydrate analysis.  The extinction coefficient used for filgrastim 
intermediate content determinations by UV280 measurement is fully justified.  
There  is  a  PhEur  monograph  for  filgrastim  and  the  applicant  has  based/adapted  many  of  their 
tests on the methods therein. 
Impurities 
The research and development work performed to determine product and process related 
impurities is comprehensively summarised by the applicant.  Although the level of product 
related impurities is relatively low the company puts a lot of effort into testing these for release. 
The impurities are either controlled in IPCs or release testing or have been shown to be cleared 
substantially. 
The methods implemented for batch release (and stability) provide a good overview of the 
product related substances. For filgrastim intermediate and lipegfilgrastim these are oxidised 
impurities, isomer (related substance), misfolded protein, dimers and multimers, charged 
variants and depegylated species.   
Process related impurities include biological residuals (glycosyltransferases, DNA, HCP from E. 
coli and CHO cells) and non-biological other raw material/reagents. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 12/108 
 
  
  
Specification 
The methods implemented for batch release (and stability) provide a good overview of the 
product related substances. Overall, appropriate testing for filgrastim intermediate and 
lipegfilgrastim (drug substance) is proposed. 
The proposed release and stability specifications for lipegfilgrastim comprise test attributes for 
appearance (visual inspection), pH (Ph. Eur.), Identity, content potency (cell proliferation assay), 
purity specified impurities, bioburden, (Ph. Eur.), endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and excipients. 
In many cases, limits were tightened in relation to clinical trials material and based on 
manufacturing experience as requested. The applicant is recommended to re-evaluate 
specification for filgrastim intermediate and lipegfilgrastim as soon as sufficient data are 
available.  
The applicant uses a modified potency assay (cell proliferation) to that stated in the Ph. Eur. – 
this is acceptable as the assay is validated. 
Details of the analytical procedures have been provided. Batch analysis for process validation lots 
and the clinical batches has been provided. 
Reference standard 
The  applicant  has  stated  the  derivation  of  their  internal  working  standards  and  also  cross-
validated  these  to  the  international  WHO  standard.    The  internal  standards  are  extensively 
characterised.  Information to support the stability of these standards is provided.   
Stability 
Filgrastim intermediate is stored in LDPE bags. 
Lipegfilgrastim solution is stored in Teflon PFA bottles, closed with Teflon PFA caps at 5 ± 3ºC. 
The  lipegfilgrastim  process  validation  lots  were  placed  on  stability  at  the  long  term  storage 
condition of 5 ± 3°C for up to 12 months and at the accelerated storage condition of 25 ± 3°C/ 
60  ±  5%  RH  for  up  to  6  months.  These  lots  were  packaged  in  Teflon  PFA  bottles,  closed  with 
Teflon PFA caps. These bottles are the smallest size of those proposed for commercial use. The 
lots  were  tested  for  appearance,  pH,  identity,  content,  potency,  purity,  bioburden  and  bacterial 
endotoxin. 
Data  from  a  supportive  agitation  (mechanical)  stress  study  and  a  photostability  study  were 
rovided.  
The pivotal study with the support of the Phase II and Phase III Stability data support the 
proposed retest period for lipegfilgrastim. 
The retest date of the Lonquex drug substance of 9 months at 5 ± 3°C claimed by the applicant 
is acceptable. The available stability data do not give rise to concern. This is accepted, 
acknowledging that new studies have been initiated in 2012. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 13/108 
 
  
  
Comparability exercise for Active Substance 
A number of significant changes, including a fermentation scale up, changes to the purification 
process, change to the storage container, change of manufacturing site and scale-up for the 
glycopegylation reaction, have been made during the development of lipegfilgrastim.   
Detailed side-by-side comparisons of all the changes are provided in the dossier. The changes 
are described in detail with a comprehensive overview of the batch numbers involved. The 
results were obtained with a comprehensive panel of tests (including IPCs and release tests) 
demonstrating that the filgrastim intermediate and lipegfilgrastim manufactured for Phase III 
clinical trials and commercial use are of comparable quality. Overall, the comparability data 
generated are compelling and the CHMP is of the opinion that no further non-clinical or clinical 
data are required to support the use of post-phase III material.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Lonquex  is  a  sterile,  preservative-free  aqueous  solution  for  subcutaneous  administration, 
presented in a 1 mL pre-filled syringe containing 6 mg of Lonquex (based on protein content). All 
excipients used  are  well  known  and  resemble  other (peg-/)filgrastim  preparations.  No  overages 
are  included,  however  an  overfill  of  5%  is  included  to  ensure  the  correct  extractable  volume.  
The  composition  and  choice  of  excipients  is  sufficiently  justified  by  appropriate  development 
studies.  
Adventitious agents 
TSE 
During  production  of  the  drug  substance/product,  two  components  (peptone,  beef  extract)  that 
are  derived  from  TSE-relevant  animal  species  were  used  as  manufacturing  aids.  For  future 
manufacture, it is not intended to employ these components any longer. One of the component 
(foetal  calf  serum)  was  used  minimally,  in  the  selection  of  a  MCB  clone  of  one  of  the  enzymes 
used in production. A TSE Certificate of Suitability is provided for all components. No category IA 
tissues  are  used  and  the  components  are  sourced  from  Category  B  countries  (Commission 
Decision 2010/749/EU amending Decision 2007/453/EC).  
Given  these  factors  and  the  likely  low  exposure  to  these  components,  the  risk  of  TSE 
contamination is considered negligible. 
Microbial contamination 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  good  account  of  the  measures  in  place  for  controlling  microbial 
contamination for the filgrastim intermediate cell banks, the biological enzyme starting materials, 
and  the  filgrastim  intermediate/lipegfilgrastim  production  process.  The  measures  in  place  are 
satisfactory. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 14/108 
 
  
  
 
Viral Adventitious Agents 
Viral clearance studies for main filgrastim intermediate fermentation and glycosyltransferase A  
enzyme production are not required as E. coli fermentation does not support the growth of 
known viruses.  The applicant has chosen three steps for investigations into viral clearance for 
viral contamination possibly coming through with glycosyltransferase B enzyme which is derived 
from CHO cells.  The steps involve one chromatography step, nanofiltration and the remodelling 
step in lipegfilgrastim pegylation. 
The viral clearance results show a good clearance of the selected viruses for the three steps. 
The non-enveloped viruses are cleared by two steps, one of which is the chromatography step.  
As stated in CPMP/BWP/268/95, such a partitioning process is not necessarily considered an 
effective virus removal step on account of the number of variables making scale-down difficult 
and possibly not representative of commercial-scale, and also due to the model viruses not being 
representative for target viruses in such a partitioning process.   
However, the two runs for Reo-3 showed consistent removal capacity (>7 log), the flanking 
eluate fractions were also included in the analysis for virus content and based on the good 
removal in the subsequent nanofiltration step for Reo virus, the use of the column in at least a 
supportive capacity might be acceptable.  For PPV, there is only one step shown for robust 
clearance (nanofiltration at >5 logs).   
Manufacture of the product 
Manufacturing process and process controls 
Manufacture of Lonquex pre-filled syringes employs a straightforward process with the following 
steps: 
• 
Pooling of lipegfilgrastim  
•  Aseptic filling into glass syringes 
•  Visual inspection 
•  Analytical Release Testing 
• 
Labelling and packaging 
There are no intermediates. 
Overall, the control strategy is deemed appropriate for such straightforward manufacturing 
process; The IPCs stated are described and are acceptable and the applicant has justified not 
including a control for uniformity at the mixing/filling stage. 
Process Validation 
Four batches were produced for the Process Validation (PV) studies. The PV batches included 
both types of syringes.  The analytical data for the PV lots show that the specifications set at the 
time are met for all parameters and are consistent between runs. Media fill, cleaning validation 
and shipping studies are provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 15/108 
 
  
  
Process validation is deemed acceptable. 
Product specification 
The specifications contain tests for description (visual inspection), colour of solution (Ph. Eur.), 
clarity of solution (Ph. Eur.), osmolality (Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), visible particles (Ph. Eur.), sub-
visible particles (Ph. Eur.), extractable volume, identity, total protein content potency (cell 
proliferation assay), purity, impurities endotoxins, sterility. 
The applicant has detailed the methods for the analytical tests. Where appropriate, the tests 
undertaken to confirm equipment calibration and system suitability have been stated. Methods 
have been validated (full validation reports have been provided).   
Batch analysis for process validation and a number of clinical batches has been provided. 
The EU release/shelf-life specifications are overall satisfactory.   
Lipegfilgrastim molecule is sensitive to elevated temperatures (above 25°C), the main 
degradation routes being hydrolysis of the linkage between PEG and the protein moiety, the main 
degradation product being filgrastim-GalNAc. Overall, analytical procedures to control the 
relevant quality attributes (identity, purity, potency, microbial safety) are considered 
appropriate. 
Stability of the product 
Lonquex is presented in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper and a fixed 
injection needle. Pre-filled syringes with or without an additional safety device, which prevents 
needle stick injury and re-use, are available. Two types of syringes are proposed for Lonquex, 
the syringes used  consist of a siliconised glass barrel (container) with a staked needle, a rigid 
needle shield and a siliconised rubber stopper (closure). 
All results for the long-term stability studies (vials, phase III and process validation batches) 
remain within proposed specifications. Stability data are presented for the pivotal batch for 18 
months and show good stability for Lonquex. Together with the supporting data available from 
older batches (24 months), the results support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in 
the SmPC. 
Comparability Exercise for Finished Medicinal Drug Product  
Details of the manufacturing development are provided for each filling site used for phase I-III 
clinical development and commercialisation. Main changes were the scale-up/site change, 
reduced target fill volume, and the change from vial to prefilled syringe between phase II and 
phase III / commercialisation. Overall, the presented data show that the manufacturing of 
development and commercial batches is equivalent. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 16/108 
 
  
  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Overall, the submission covers all the main quality areas in satisfactory detail. The product is well 
characterised, control tests are adequate and the product is relatively stable. The points raised 
were mostly related to clarifications or some further tightening of specifications.  It was 
concluded that the details of deviation control should not be detailed in the licensing dossier on 
the basis that such upfront agreement on possible specific deviations is not appropriate herein.  
Based on the data provided, the dossier is found to be approvable overall.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The major quality objections are deemed solved.  Based on the data provided, the dossier is 
found to be approvable.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific 
progress, the CHMP recommends the review of specifications once a pre-determined number of 
batches will have been manufactured. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
In vivo studies were performed in rat, rabbit, dog and monkey. All studies, except for the in vitro 
binding study to the human G-CSF receptor and the determination of the specific activity of 
Lonquex (drug product and drug substance), were conducted according to Good Laboratory 
Practice (GLP). 
No CHMP scientific advice was given for this medicinal for the non-clinical development. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The binding interaction between the human G-CSF receptor (hG-CSFR) and either filgrastim (the 
unPEGylated precursor of lipegfilgrastim), lipegfilgrastim or pegfilgrastim was tested in vitro. 
Lipegfilgrastim had a similar binding affinity to the G-CSF receptor compared to a comparator 
product, pegfilgrastim. lipegfilgrastim showed a high and potent binding affinity with an average 
Kd of 481 nM; for pegfilgrastim this was 516 nM. In addition, the in vitro pharmacodynamic 
activity of lipegfilgrastim was confirmed in a metabolic activity assay based on the stimulation of 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 17/108 
 
  
  
 
proliferation of NFS-60 cell line, which is known to express G-CSF receptor. Lipegfilgrastim was 
shown to increase proliferation of NF-60 cells. 
A single combined pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic study has been performed in CD rats, 
evaluating the effect of filgrastim intermediate, Lonquex and Neulasta administration on 
haematological parameters. In the pharmacodynamic part of this study, 4 male CD rats received 
a 100 µg/kg body weight single subcutaneous (SC) injection of filgrastim intermediate, Lonquex, 
Neulasta or negative vehicle control at a volume of 1 ml/kg body weight. Following 
administration of Lonquex or Neulasta there was an increase in leucocyte number, elevated 
neutrophil granulocyte and monocyte counts. There was also a marginal increase in eosinophil 
and basophil granulocyte and large unstained cell counts. These effects were seen 24 to 48 hours 
after administration. Lipegfilgrastim showed similar increases in leucocyte and granulocyte 
numbers compared to pegfilgrastim, whereas the unPEGylated precursor, filgrastim, showed only 
minimal increase in haematological parameters.  
Pharmacodynamic effects of lipegfilgrastim administration had been further evaluated in a 
neutropenic rat model using cyclophosphamide (CPA) for neutropenia induction. Two studies 
have been submitted: the first one comparing leucocyte and neutrophil granulocyte induction 
with Lonquex and Neulasta; the second study evaluating the effect of Lonquex administration 
following neutropenia induction.  
In the first study, there were marked increases in both leucocyte and absolute neutrophil counts 
following the sharp decrease in counts after CPA administration. There were initial peaks in 
counts for leucocytes and neutrophil granulocytes followed by a drop. Increases in absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) and leucocyte counts were similar between Neulasta and Lonquex-treated 
neutropenic rats, although peak counts were in general lower for lipegfilgrastim (Lonquex) 
compared to pegfilgrastim (Neulasta).  
In the second study, Lonquex showed similar pharmacodynamic increases in ANC and leucocyte 
counts as observed previously. Male albino rats were used, neutropenia was induced with CPA 
followed by a single SC administration of 100 μg/kg body weight Lonquex either 4 h or 24 h after 
the induction of neutropenia. Treatment with Lonquex 24 h following induction of neutropenia 
resulted in higher levels of ANC compared to untreated animals. Numbers of neutrophil 
granulocytes and leucocytes were also generally higher in the majority of time points in 
comparison to haematological measurements taken from animals treated with Lonquex 4 h after 
CPA-induced neutropenia compared to control animals. 
A single combined pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic study has been performed in 
Cynomolgous monkeys, comparing the effect of administering a single dose of filgrastim, 
Lonquex and Neulasta on haematological parameters. In the pharmacodynamic part of this 
study, 4 male monkeys per dose group (filgrastim, Lonquex, Neulasta or vehicle control) were 
administered 100 µg/kg of test article at a volume of 1 ml/kg body weight. Following 
administration of Lonquex or Neulasta, there was an increase in leucocyte number, elevated 
neutrophil granulocyte and monocyte counts. There was also a marginal increase in eosinophil 
and basophil granulocyte and large unstained cell counts. These effects were seen 12 to 48 hours 
after administration. Lonquex showed comparable increases in leucocyte and granulocyte number 
to pegfilgrastim. The un-PEGylated precursor, filgrastim showed a similar maximal response 
(Cmax); however the effect was not as long lasting. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 18/108 
 
  
  
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
One secondary pharmacodynamic in vitro study (non-GLP) was submitted at CHMP request to 
investigate the cancer-promoting potential of lipegfilgrastim. 
The study evaluated the effect of the G-CSF products Lonquex, Neupogen, Neulasta and 
Granocyte on the proliferation and/or cell viability of a panel of seven human cancer cell lines. It 
showed no stimulation of proliferation of 6 out of the 7 cell lines and a slight stimulation of all 
four G-CSF products on the 7th cell line (the human histiocytic lymphoma cell line U937, which 
has been reported to express the G-CSF receptor). There were no significant differences between 
the four different G-CSF products. All of the G-CSF products stimulated robust proliferative 
responses in the positive control cell line NFS-60. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology for Lonquex was evaluated in two dedicated studies, both in compliance 
with GLP. The first study examined the central nervous system (CNS) effects using a modified 
Irwin neuro-pharmacological screening method in rats; the second one examined cardiovascular 
and respiratory effects following subcutaneous administration in anaesthetised Beagle dogs. No 
signs of CNS toxicity were observed in rats injected with 10 mg/kg body weight Lonquex in 
comparison to vehicle control injected rats. In the second study, Lonquex was administered at 10 
mg/kg body weight to 3 anaesthetised male Beagle dogs. Three dogs were administered vehicle 
control (Lonquex diluent). No Lonquex-related changes were observed on any of the 
cardiovascular or respiratory parameters. In addition, no changes affecting safety pharmacology 
endpoints (ECG, heart rate or blood pressure) were observed in the general toxicity studies with 
monkeys. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No additional studies were submitted to evaluate potential pharmacodynamic interactions with 
Lonquex in addition to CPA as described in the pharmacodynamic studies in neutropenic rats.  
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of Lonquex has been evaluated following single SC injection to rats and the 
Cynomolgus monkey. In these experiments Lonquex was compared to filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim (Neulasta) to investigate the prolongation effect of glyco-pegylation of 
lipegfilgrastim (Lonquex) on the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile. Toxicokinetic 
evaluations of Lonquex were performed following single and repeated dosing in rats and 
monkeys in general toxicity studies and in pregnant rabbits in an embryo-foetal toxicity study. 
In the single combined pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic study in male rats, the 
pharmacokinetics of Lonquex, filgrastim and Neulasta were compared to one another. Treated 
rats were split into 3 groups of 8 animals and each one was administered 100 µg/kg body weight 
of either filgrastim, Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim) or Neulasta (pegfilgrastim) by SC injection at a 
volume of 1 ml/kg body weight. 4 animals were used for vehicle control. Peak lipegfilgrastim and 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 19/108 
 
  
  
pegfilgrastim plasma levels occurred 12 h after injection with elimination half-lives of 6.42 and 
6.90 h, respectively, whereas filgrastim (XM21) peak levels were achieved 1 h after injection and 
eliminated faster (t½= 2.12 h). The pharmacokinetic profiles of Lonquex (XM22) and Neulasta 
were shown to be similar to each other; however, the PK profile of XM21 was distinctly different 
(see Figure 3). 
Figure 3: Plasma concentrations of Neulasta, XM21 and XM22 following a single SC 
injection to rats 
Higher doses of Lonquex (500 and 1000 µg/kg body weight) were administered in the 26-week 
repeat dose toxicity study in rats followed by determination of PK parameters. There was a non-
linear dose-response, with a close to trebling of Cmax and AUC when shifting doses from 500 to 
1000 µg/kg. Pharmacokinetic parameters of Lonquex taken from rats at the end of study (day 
176) showed that mean exposure to Lonquex in females was much higher than in male rats.  
In the single combined pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic study in male Cynomolgous 
monkeys, the pharmacokinetics of Lonquex, filgrastim and Neulasta were compared to one 
another. Treated monkeys were split into 3 groups of 4 animals; each group was administered 
100 µg/kg body weight of either filgrastim, Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim) or Neulasta (pegfilgrastim) 
by SC injection at a volume of 1 ml/kg body weight. Four (4) animals were used for vehicle 
control. Peak lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim plasma levels occurred 9 h after injection with 
elimination half-lives of 10.49 and 10.56 h, respectively, whereas filgrastim (XM21) peak levels 
were achieved 3.75 h after injection and eliminated faster (t½= 7.75 h). The pharmacokinetic 
profiles of Lonquex (XM22) and Neulasta were shown to be similar to each other; however, the 
PK profile of XM21 was distinctly different (see Figure 4). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 20/108 
 
  
  
 
Figure 4: Plasma concentrations of Neulasta, XM21 and XM22 following a single SC 
injection to monkeys 
Higher doses of Lonquex (500 and 1000 µg/kg body weight) were administered in the 26-week 
repeat dose toxicity study in rats followed by determination of PK parameters. There was a non-
linear dose-response, with increasing Cmax, tmax and AUC with increasing doses though this 
was not in a dose proportionate manner. There were discrepancies between gender, especially in 
comparison to Cmax, tmax, AUC and AUC/dose in measurements taken at day 85 for male and 
female monkeys treated with repeated doses of Lonquex at 100, 500 and 1000 µg/kg. Lower 
exposure was seen in male animals compared to their female counterparts. No gender 
differences were highlighted in clinical PK measurements with pegfligrastim or lipegfilgrastim.  
In a review of the PK parameters in the rabbit embryo-foetal toxicity study in which pregnant 
rabbits were dosed every other day with 10, 50 or 200 µg/kg Lonquex from GD6 until GD18, 
there was a decrease in Cmax and AUC at measurements taken at GD18 in comparison to earlier 
measurements (GD6). 
Three additional pharmacokinetic studies (non-GLP) were made available in the course of the 
assessment. 
Results of an in vitro metabolism study indicated that Lonquex, filgrastim and Neulasta are all 
digested by purified neutrophil elastase as well as human neutrophils. However, lipegfilgrastim 
appeared to be more resistant to degradation by human neutrophil elastase than filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. 
Results of an in vitro pharmacokinetic interaction study indicate that Lonquex does not directly or 
indirectly (cytokine mediated) affect the activity of human hepatocyte CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 
2C19 or 3A4/5. Furthermore, the results indicated that Lonquex did not induce increases of pro-
inflammatory cytokines in human whole blood. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 21/108 
 
  
  
 
Results of an in vivo study in nephrectomised male rats showed that the estimated percentage 
contribution of renal clearance to total body clearance was 0.954% for Lonquex, 38.0% for 
Neulasta, and 81.7% for Neupogen. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity was investigated in the rat only as part of the relevant safety pharmacology 
Study. A single SC injection of Lonquex 10 mg/kg bodyweight or vehicle each to 6 male and 6 
female Sprague Dawley rats was not associated with any sign of toxicity. All animals gained the 
expected body weight, and there were no macroscopic findings at necropsy. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Results of repeat dose toxicity studies are summarised in the following Table 4. 
Table 4: Repeat dose toxicity studies of Lonquex 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/ Route 
Duration 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
(mg/kg 
/day) 
4 weeks 
treatment, + 
4 weeks 
recovery 
Not established, since only 
effects due to exaggerated 
pharmacodynamics was 
observed. 
0 (vehicle, gp 1). 100 (gp2). 
500 (gp3). 1500 (gp4) µg/kg 
bw, on days 1, 8, 15,22 and 
29; subcuta-neous 
CD Rat, Main study: 
10/sex/dose; Recovery 
phase: 10/sex/only for gp 
1 and 4; Satelite 
animals*: 9/sex/dose 
Major findings: Both sexes, all dose levels: Haematology: dose related ↓ Hb, RBC. Dose related ↑ WBC, 
neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils (non-d-r), LUC, basophils, lobularity index, reticulocytes.  
Biochemistry: Dose related ↑ Alkaline Phosphatase. 
Macroscopy: Dose related ↑ enlarged spleen.  
Organ weights: Dose related ↑ rel spleen weight. 
Bone marrow: Dose related ↑ of myeloid:erythroid ratio. Histopathology(only gps 1 and 4 investigated, but 
for bone marrow, liver,cervical lymph node, spleen all 4 gps): Dose related myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ 
neutrophils in spleen (gp 2-4), liver (gp4), bone marrow (gp3-4), cervical lymph node (gp3-4), ↑ extramed 
haematopoiesis in liver, ↑ haematopoietic and giant cells in spleen, ↓ follicular lymphoid hyperplasia in 
spleen. 
Recovery: Effects on haematology, macroscopy, organ weights: incompletely recovered. In addition 
(macroscopy): Increased lobular pattern of liver. Histopathology: Minimal myeloid hyperplasia in liver and 
spleen (1 male) + bone marrow (3 males). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 22/108 
 
  
  
13 weeks 
treatment, + 
6 weeks 
recovery 
Not established, since only 
effects due to exaggerated 
pharmacodynamics was 
observed. 
0 (vehicle, gp 1). 100 (gp2). 
500 (gp3). 1000 (gp4) µg/kg 
bw, once weekly, first dose 
on day 1, last dose on day 
92.  subcuta-neous 
CD Rat Main study: 
10/sex/dose; Recovery 
phase: 5/sex/only for gp 1 
and 4; Satelite animals*: 
9/sex/dose for gp 2-4 and 
3/sex/dose for gp 1. 
Major findings: Clinical signs: hind leg paralysis, accessory swelling of joint or whole leg in gp 4 (from 
test day 78 on: 3/15 males, 1/15 females). 
Haematology: dose related ↓ Hb (gp3-4), RBC(gp2-4). Dose related ↑ in gp 2-4 of: WBC, neutrophils, 
lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils (males: non-d-r), LUC, basophils, reticulocytes. Non-dose-related in 
gp 3-4: ↓ of HCT, ↑  MCV and MCH. 
Biochemistry: Dose related ↑ Alkaline Phosphatase. 
Macroscopy: Dose related ↑ enlarged spleen.  
Organ weights: Dose related ↑ rel and abs spleen weight. Females dose-related and mals non-dose-related 
↑ rel and abs lung weight. 
Bone marrow: ↑ % myeloids, ↓ of  % erythroids, ↑ myeloid : erythroid ratio. 
Histopathology (only gps 1 and 4 investigated): Dose related myeloid hyperplasia in spleen, bone marrow, 
liver with ↑ erythropoiesis and granulopoiesis. ↓ follicular lymphoid hyperplasia in spleen. Reduction and 
atrophy of amount and density of trabecular bone near the cartilaginous growth plate of gp 4 male os 
femoris. 
Recovery: Hind leg paralysis was incompletely recovered.  Increased rel and abs spleen weight gp 4 
incompletely recovered. Effect on trabecular bone in gp 4 males incompletely recovered (incidence: 3/5 gp 
4 vs 0/5 gp 1 males). 
CD Rat Main study: 
20/sex/dose; Recovery 
phase: 5/sex/only for gp 1 
and 4; Satelite animals*: 
9/sex/dose for gp 2-4 and 
3/sex/dose for gp 1 
Major findings: Clinical signs: Dose-related severe swellings of hind leg joints at all dose levels. Reddish 
discolouration of urine in 2 gp 4 males. 
Haematology: dose related ↑ Leucocytes, reticulocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, 
LUC, basophils, MCV, MCH. Dose related ↓ platelets, Hb, RBC, Hct.  
Biochemistry: dose related ↑ Alkaline Phosphatase, γ-GT. 
Urinalysis: gp 4 males:↑ Erythrocytes.  
Macroscopy: Dose related ↑ enlarged spleen.  
Organ weights: Dose related  abs and rel ↑ lung, spleen.  
Bone marrow:.gp 4 females ↑ myeloid : erythroid ratio 
Histopathology(only gps 1 and 4 investigated, but for bone marrow, liver,cervical lymph node, spleen all 4 
gps): Gp 4  myeloid hyperplasia in spleen, bone marrow, liver with ↑ erythropoiesis and granulopoiesis. 
Reduction and atrophy of amount and density of trabecular bone near the cartilaginous growth plate of gp 
4 (both sexes) os femoris; ↑ of signs of inflammatory changes in several organs in gp 4 animals and ↑ 
incidence suppurative prostatitis in gp 4 males. 
Recovery: Swellings of hind leg joints recovered gradually during this period, complete at 8th wk. Gp 4 ↓ 
platelets had incompletely recovered. Bone atrophy had incompletely recovered (in 1 animal/sex, gp 4). 
0 (vehicle, gp 1). 100 (gp2). 
500 (gp3). 1000 (gp4) µg/kg 
bw, once weekly, first dose 
on day 1, last dose on day 
183 ; subcuta-neous 
Not established, since only 
effects due to exaggerated 
pharmacodynamics was 
observed. 
26 weeks 
treatment, + 
8 weeks 
recovery 
Cynomolgus Monkey Main 
study: 4/sex/dose; 
Recovery phase: 
2/sex/only for gp 1 and 4. 
0 (vehicle, gp 1). 100 (gp2). 
500 (gp3). 1500 (gp4) µg/kg 
bw, on days 1, 8, 15,22 and 
29; subcuta-neous 
4 weeks 
treatment, + 
4 weeks 
recovery 
Based on effect on body 
weight: 100 µg/kg bw, but this 
effect was not replicated in the 
13 wk study. All other effects 
were pharmacodynamic ones. 
Major findings: Clinical signs: ↓ Body weight, body weight gain, gp 3-4. 
Haematology: dose related ↓ Hb, RBC, Hct, ↑ WBC, reticulocytes, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, ↑ 
neutrophils, basophils, LUC. 
Biochemistry: Gp 3-4: small non dose related but sign ↑ protein (females only), globulin, α1 globulin, β-
globulin (females), and ↓ albumin/globulin ratio (similar trend in males, but non-sign). Gp 3-4: dose 
related, stat non-sign, small, ↑ Alkaline Phosphatase.  
Macroscopy: Gp 3-4: dose related ↑ incidence congested spleen. 
Organ weights: Dose related ↑ spleen (abs and rel). 
Bone marrow: Dose related ↑ myeloid:erythroid ratio. 
Histopathology(only gps 1 and 4 investigated, but for bone marrow, liver,cervical lymph node, spleen all 4 
gps): Gp 3-4: dose related ↑ myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ neutrophils, ↑ haemopoietic cells and leucostasis in 
liver, ↑ neutrophils in red pulp of spleen. Gp 2-4: ↑ myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ neutrophils in bone marrow. 
Gp 4: extramedullary haemopoiesis testis. Gp 4: mild to moderate leucostatis in capillary and veins of the 
heart. 
Recovery: All effects recovered. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 23/108 
 
  
  
Cynomolgus Monkey Main 
study: 4/sex/dose; 
Recovery phase: 
2/sex/only for gp 1 and 4. 
0 (vehicle, gp 1). 100 (gp2). 
500 (gp3). 1000 (gp4) µg/kg 
bw, once weekly, first dose 
on day 1, last dose on day 
92.  subcuta-neous neous 
13 weeks 
treatment, + 
6 weeks 
recovery 
Not established. 
Only pharmacodynamic effects 
found. ADA were formed, 
probably neutralising in at least 
some of the animals.  
Major findings: Haematology: Gp 2-4: ↓ Hb, RBC, Hct, ↑ erythrocyte sedimentation rate ↑ WBC, 
neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, LUC, basophils. Several of these effects non-dose 
related. Gp 4: ↓ MCHC. 
Biochemistry: Gp 3-4: Stat sign ↑ α1 globulin (female),  ↓ CK (only stat sign in gp 4 females). Gp 4 females 
only: non-sign (small) ↑ Alkaline Phosphatase. 
Macroscopy: enlarged spleen (gp 2 females, gp 4 both sexes). 
Organ weights: Gp 2-4: ↑ spleen. 
Bone marrow: Gp 2-4, non-dose related: ↑ % myeloids,  ↓ % erythroids, ↑ myeloid:erythroid ratio. 
Histopathology(only gps 1 and 4 investigated, but for bone marrow, liver,cervical lymph node, spleen all 4 
gps): Gp 2-4: dose related myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ neutrophils in spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, 
kidney. Gp 3-4: dose related myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ neutrophils in liver (females), trachea (gp 3 
females, gp 4 males), Gp 4: dose related myeloid hyperplasia with ↑ neutrophils in gall bladder (females), 
injection site (both sexes). 
Recovery: Incompletely recovered: ↑ % eosinophils. Gp 4: enlarged spleen (rel, abs). Myeloid hyperplasia 
lymph nodes. 
Genotoxicity 
No studies were submitted (see discussion on Non-clinical aspects).  
Carcinogenicity 
No studies were submitted (see discussion on Non-clinical aspects).  
Reproduction Toxicity 
No fertility and early embryonic development studies were submitted (see discussion on Non-
clinical aspects). 
The Applicant performed an abbreviated reproductive and developmental toxicology programme 
by submitting studies only for embryo-foetal development and toxicity in order to assess the 
potential teratogenicity of Lonquex. These are summarised in the following Table 5. 
Table 5: Embryofoetal toxicity studies with Lonquex 
Study type 
Embryo-fœtal 
development; 
dose finding 
study  
Species; Number Female/ 
group 
New Zealand White rabbits; 
treated:3 females/dose 
group. 
Evaluated: 2 dams with 
litters/gp. 
Route & dose 
Dosing 
period 
NOAEL (µg/kg 
&AUC)  
Subcutaneous.0 (gp 1), 
10 (gp 2), 50 (gp 3), 
200 (gp 4) µg 
Lonquex/kg b.w./day, 
every other day 
GD 6-18 
Major findings: Dams: Not any treatment related effects found. Haematology:↓ Hb,RBC, Hct, ↑ WBC, 
Reticulocytes, neutrophils, monocytes, eosinophils, LUC, basophils, lymphocytes. Foetuses: Not any 
treatment related effects found. 
Embryo-fœtal 
development; 
final study 
NOAEL:  
F0: 10  
F1: < 10 
GD 6-18  
New Zealand White rabbits; 
treated: 24 females/dose 
group. 
Evaluated: 20, 20, 16, 12 
dams with litters in gp 1, 2, 
3, 4. 
Subcutaneous.0 (gp 1), 
10 (gp 2), 50 (gp 3), 
200 (gp 4) µg 
Lonquex/kg b.w./day, 
every other day. 
Major findings: Dams:Clinical signs: Gp 3, 4 dose related ↓ body weight, Gp 4 body weight gain, relative 
food intake (up to day 22, recovering thereafter). Haematology: dose related  ↑ WBC, neutrophils (GD 8, 
14, 20, not fully recovered at GD 29). ↑ lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, LUC, basophils. ↓ RBC, Hb 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 24/108 
 
  
  
 
  
Reticulocytes: first ↓, later ↑. Macroscopy: Gp 4: urinary bladder filled with granular sediment, kidney 
changes (marbled, pale focus), dilatation of ureter or renal pelvis. Organ weights: Gp 4 ↓ mean gravid 
uterus weight (stat sign, due to severely reduced No viable fetuses). Foetuses: Gp 2-4: Dose related ↓ 
mean fetal weights, ↑ runts, Gp 2: stat sign ↓ mean fetal weights, but within normal range. Gp 3: ↑ 
incidence of abortions (2/10), ↓ mean fetal weights. ↑ runts. Gp 4: ↑ incidence of abortions (3/22), ↓ mean 
fetal weights, 8 dams with total loss of implants (resorptions/ stillbirths). 2 dams with 1 viable fetus. 
Overall 9 dams with > 1 viable fetuses, severely ↑ post-implantation loss, stat sign ↑ ratio early or total 
resorptions vs implantation sites, stat sign ↓ ratio fetuses vs implantation sites, ↓ mean placental weigth, 
fetal weight. ↑ runts, ↑ fetal deaths, ↑ mortality during first 6 hrs in incubator (6-24 hrs incubator stay: 
normal viability). Variations: Gp 4: ↑ renal changes (pale and/or reduced kidney size), skeletal variations 
of skull (enlarged anterior fontanelle, missing ossification of distinct nasal, frontal, parietal, interparietal or 
supraoccipital areas), fused sternebrae. Retardations: Gp 3-4: ↑ incomplete ossification of skull. 
No pre- and post-natal development or juvenile toxicity studies were submitted (see discussion 
on Non-clinical aspects). 
Toxicokinetic data 
TK measurements in rats, rabbits and monkeys showed a trend of increasing lipegfilgrastim 
exposure with increasing dose. In the rat, the Applicant submitted three different studies, the 
exposure (mean AUC0-tlast) after the first dose of 500 µg/kg (NOAEL) ranging between 43,923.0 
ng.h/ml and 104,422.5 ng.h/ml. This exposure is 4.0 to 9.4 fold higher than the exposure to 
lipegfilgrastim in healthy volunteers administered a fixed dose of 6 mg (Study XM22-05, 
11,060.6 ng.h/ml). In the monkey, in the 4- and 13-week studies, the exposure (mean AUC0-tlast) 
after the first dose of 500 µg/kg (NOAEL) ranged between 71,562.55 ng.h/ml and 129,265.57 
ng.h/ml. This exposure is 6.5 to 11.7 fold higher than the exposure in healthy volunteers 
administered a fixed dose of 6 mg (Study XM22-05, 11,060.6 ng.h/ml). 
Local Tolerance  
Concerning local tolerance, one study in rabbits was submitted. In this study, Lonquex was 
administered to male rabbits via the intravenous, intraarterial and paravenous route at doses of 
0.5 ml/animal (corresponding to 5 mg/animal) for all routes, except for the paravenous route for 
which 0.1 ml/animal (corresponding to 1 mg/animal) was administered. Lonquex was 
administered to the left side of each rabbit, and an equal volume control vehicle (0.9% saline) 
injected to the right side. Over the 4 day observation period there was no change in survival, 
body weight or toxicity signs in any treated animal. There was no indication of increased 
intolerance noted in either route of administration.  
Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity has not been evaluated in a dedicated study but has been reviewed as part of 
the SC first tier investigations in all repeat dose toxicity studies. 
Studies on metabolites have not been submitted. 
A detailed impurity profile comparison alongside Lonquex batches used to conduct non-clinical 
studies was provided; no major findings were observed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 25/108 
 
  
  
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) has not been submitted (see discussion on Non-clinical 
aspects). 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical development programme for Lonquex consisted of a range of pharmacodynamic 
(PD), pharmacokinetic (PK) and toxicology studies, in which Lonquex was injected 
subcutaneously (single and repeated dose) which is the same route of administration used 
clinically. Initial non-clinical testing focused on the comparison of the PD and PK of lipegfilgrastim 
(Lonquex) with the non-PEGylated precursor filgrastim intermediate and with pegfilgrastim. The 
Applicant has provided studies in pharmacodynamics (in vitro and in vivo), safety pharmacology 
(rat and dog), general toxicity (rat and monkey), local tolerance (rat, monkey and rabbit) and 
embryo-foetal toxicity (rabbit). 
The submitted nonclinical studies regarding primary pharmacodynamics did not reveal evidence 
of any difference in effect between Lonquex and Neulasta. One secondary pharmacodynamic 
study, investigating cancer-promoting effects of Lonquex, was submitted at CHMP request; this 
additional study is considered adequate. The likelihood that Lonquex may enhance tumour 
growth cannot be excluded; however this risk may be applied across to other G-CSF-like 
products. Moreover, there was no indication of pre-neoplastic or tumour lesions observed from 
the long-term repeated-dose studies in rats (26 weeks) and monkeys (13 weeks), and overall 
there was no clear non-clinical evidence to suggest that Lonquex would increase risk of cancer 
progression following therapy, over and above that which might occur with pegfilgrastim 
(Neulasta) or other filgrastim products. In conclusion, it is possible that G-SCF up-regulation 
stimulated by Lonquex administration can facilitate growth and survival of tumour cells and 
therefore confer promotion of tumour progression. No additional studies were performed to 
examine potential pharmacodynamic interactions with Lonquex in addition to cyclophosphamide 
as described in the pharmacodynamic studies in neutropenic rats. Interactions with other forms 
of chemotherapy have not been examined. This was clearly detailed in the proposed SmPC and 
no further concerns were raised. 
The Applicant submitted a discussion of the published scientific literature on the pharmacology 
and pharmacokinetics of G-CSF products and concerns about the lack of studies regarding 
secondary pharmacodynamics, distribution (including distribution through the placenta), 
metabolism, and excretion were addressed; no additional studies were considered necessary. 
In general, the PK profile of Lonquex bears close similarity to that of Neulasta (pegfilgrastim), 
which has an established safety profile. Nevertheless, it was shown that there are differences: in 
rats the contribution of renal clearance of Lonquex to total body clearance was much smaller 
than for Neulasta, and degradation of Lonquex by human neutrophil elastase was much slower 
than for Neulasta.  The scope of the pharmacokinetic studies is considered sufficient to support 
this application for Lonquex (lipegfilgrastim). 
There were discrepancies in Lonquex exposure between gender, especially in comparison to Cmax, 
tmax, AUC and AUC/dose in measurements taken at day 85 for male and female monkeys treated 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 26/108 
 
  
  
with repeated doses ofLonquex. Lower exposure was seen in male animals compared to their 
female counterparts and may be related to number of neutrophils and relative clearance rate. 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies, there were no major treatment related clinical effects on rats or 
monkeys during treatment or following recovery. The main findings relate to the expected 
haematological changes with increases in neutrophils, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils, 
and variable increases in lymphocytes. There was an expected overstimulation of the 
haematopoietic system displayed by increased spleen weight and microscopic evidence of 
myeloid hyperplasia in various tissues. Alkaline phosphatase was also routinely elevated. In the 
rat, atrophy of the trabecular bone was only seen in high dose animals. With regard to 
immunogenicity, in the rat only two treated animals at the end of the 4-week study and one 
treated animal at the end of the 13-week study had confirmed levels of anti-
lipegfilgrastim/filgrastim antibodies at levels greater than could be quantified. Only 
measurements from 2 animals could determine that the antibodies had a neutralising capacity. 
In the monkey, immunogenicity was high in comparison to rats. Most animals developed an 
immunogenic response with IgG and IgM antibodies already detected at the end of the 4-week 
study. Although levels of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) were low, incidence increased in a time- 
and dose-dependent manner. At the end of the 13-week study, almost all animals were 
seropositive, and longer term studies in monkeys were not performed beyond 13 weeks.  
Though not as pronounced as seen in the monkey studies, toxicokinetic findings in the 26 week 
rat study, mentioned above in the PK section, revealed a gender discrepancy, mean female rat 
exposure being higher than in male rats at day 176.  
Genotoxicity has not been investigated in a separately designed study. Mutagenic potential is not 
expected forLonquex. In accordance with ICH S6, recombinant products, such asLonquex, are 
not expected to interact directly with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or other chromosomal 
material.  
With regard to reproduction toxicity and based on the available information on G-CSF products 
and the clinical indication which requires myelotoxic chemotherapy, the assessment of 
reproductive and developmental toxicity of Lonquex focused on the assessment of embryo-foetal 
toxicity. No studies on fertility and early embryonic development, prenatal and post-natal 
development (including maternal function) and in juvenile animals were submitted. This was 
considered acceptable as effects on fertility and development are expected from the concomitant 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. Should the Applicant attempt to extend to additional indications in 
which such concomitant therapy is not indicated, a more comprehensive repro-toxicity package 
may be necessary. However, animal studies with G-CSF and derivatives do not indicate harmful 
effects with respect to fertility.  
The choice of rabbit species for the embryo-foetal toxicity studies is considered adequately 
justified. In these studies, an increased incidence of post implantation loss and abortion has been 
observed at high doses (50 µg/Kg and especially 200 µg/Kg) of lipegfilgrastim, likely owing to an 
exaggerated pharmacodynamic effect specific for rabbits. There is no evidence that 
lipegfilgrastim is teratogenic. These findings are consistent with results from G-CSF and 
derivatives. Published information on G-CSF and derivatives reveal no evidence of adverse 
effects on fertility and embryo foetal development in rats or pre /postnatal effects other than 
those related to maternal toxicity as well. There is evidence that filgrastim and pegfilgrastim may 
be transported at low levels over the placenta in rats, although no information is available for 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 27/108 
 
  
  
lipegfilgrastim. The relevance of these findings for humans is not known. Moreover, there are 
very limited data (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) on the use of lipegfilgrastim in pregnant 
women. As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Lonquex during 
pregnancy. Finally, it is unknown whether lipegfilgrastim/metabolites are excreted in human 
milk. A risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded. Breast feeding should be discontinued 
during treatment with Lonquex. 
No specific concerns were raised for local tolerance as a review of injection sites used in the 
repeat-dose toxicity studies revealed no additional concern. Lonquex is considered to be well 
tolerated in the intended route of administration and by other routes administered in error. 
Although there have been substantial changes in scale-up, site and manufacturing of Lonquex, 
no concerns are raised in terms of impurities for Lonquex. 
The Applicant has provided a suitable justification for not performing an Environmental Risk 
Assessment (ERA) in line with the guidance from the “Guideline on the Environmental Risk 
Assessment of the medicinal products for human use” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00). Lonquex is a 
PEGylated recombinant protein and is unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment. No 
further evaluation has been provided and this is acceptable. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The granting of a Marketing Authorisation for Lonquex can be recommended from a non-clinical 
point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The application for Lonquex was supported by 3 early PK and PD studies, one dose-finding study 
and two pivotal efficacy and safety studies. These are summarised in Table 6 below.  
Scientific advice on clinical aspects of the development was received by the CHMP. The scientific 
advice pertained to clinical pharmacology studies, clinical methodological issues (temperature 
measurement to determine febrile neutropenia and use of antibiotics and antipyretics, design and 
adequacy of proposed pivotal studies in breast and lung cancer, adequacy of safety database and 
immunogenicity assessment.  
Lipegfilgrastim is indicated in the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia in adults treated with toxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception 
of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes). The recommended dosing 
regimen is of one single injection of 6 mg lipegfilgrastim for each chemotherapy cycle, given 
approximately 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 28/108 
 
  
  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Table 6: Overview of clinical studies with lipegfilgrastim 
Type of study 
Design 
Dosage regimen 
Study No. 
XM22-01 
PK, PD and safety, Healthy 
subjects 
Phase I, single-centre, 
single-blind, randomised 
dose escalation study 
XM22-05 
PK, PD and safety, Healthy 
subjects 
Phase I, single-centre, 
single-blind, randomised, 
parallel-group study 
XM22-06 
PK, PD and safety, Healthy 
subjects, Three different 
injection sites tested 
Phase I, single-centre, 
open-label, randomised, 
three-way crossover study 
XM22-02-
INT 
Efficacy, PK, PD and 
safety, Breast cancer 
patients, Dose finding 
study 
Phase II, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group, 
active-controlled, dose 
finding study 
Pilot cohort: single s.c. dose of 
25 μg/kg Lonquex 
Main study: single s.c. dose of 50 
or 100 µg/kg Lonquex or 
100 µg/kg pegfilgrastim  
Single s.c. dose of 6 mg Lonquex 
or 6 mg pegfilgrastim 
Single s.c. dose of 6 mg Lonquex 
at 3 different injection sites (upper 
arm, abdomen, thigh), separated 
by 3-week washout 
Single s.c. injection of 3 mg, 4.5 
mg or 6 mg Lonquex or 6 mg 
pegfilgrastim on day 2 of each 
chemotherapy cycle 
XM22-03 
Efficacy, PK, PD and 
safety, Breast cancer 
patients, Active-controlled 
study 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group 
study 
Single s.c. injection of 6 mg 
Lonquex or 6 mg pegfilgrastim on 
day 2 of each chemotherapy cycle 
XM22-04 
Efficacy, PK, PD and 
safety, NSCLC patients, 
Placebo-controlled study 
Phase III, multinational, 
multicentre, randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group 
study 
Single s.c. injection of 6 mg 
Lonquex or placebo on day 4 of 
each chemotherapy cycle 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption  
After s.c. administration of a single 6 mg dose of Lonquex to healthy volunteers, Lonquex was 
absorbed with a tmax of approximately 30-36 hours. In cross-over Study XM22-06, relative 
bioavailability of Lonquex injected at several sites was investigated, i.e. the thigh, abdomen and 
upper arm. Cmax and AUC0-t were lower following s.c. injection in the thigh compared to 
administration in the abdomen and administration in the upper arm. Shorter t1/2 values and 
mean residence time (MRT) were found after administration in the abdomen than for the upper 
arm and thigh. Cmax and AUC0-t were higher following s.c. dosing at three different administration 
sites in male subjects compared to female subjects (see gender effect under Special populations 
below). The differences in the PK profiles of the three injection sites resulted mainly from 
respective differences in the male PK population than from those in the female PK population. 
Overall, the bioavailability of Lonquex was lower after s.c. injection in the thigh compared to s.c. 
injection in the abdomen and in the upper arm and was higher in male than in female subjects.  
In the healthy volunteer study XM22-05 at equal fixed doses of 6 mg, cumulative exposure 
(AUCinf) was about 64% higher and peak exposure (Cmax) about 36% higher after Lonquex than 
after Neulasta administration. The longer tmax for Lonquex suggested a more sustained 
absorption profile compared to the same dose of Neulasta. The elimination in healthy volunteers 
appeared slower for Lonquex compared to Neulasta as reflected by longer t1/2 and MRT values. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 29/108 
 
  
  
 
No i.v. solution (for human use) was developed to conduct an absolute bioavailability (BA) study. 
No bioequivalence studies were submitted. All clinical studies were conducted with the identical 
liquid composition.  
Distribution 
In the phase II study XM22-02, 3 mg, 4.5 mg, and 6 mg Lonquex or 6 mg Neulasta was s.c. 
administered to patients with breast cancer receiving cancer chemotherapy. Blood samples for 
Lonquex PK and CD34+ cell count were taken for a subpopulation of patients at selected centres 
in cycles 1 and 4. In cycle 1, lipegfilgrastim or pegfilgrastim serum concentrations rose to a 
transient maximum and returned to pre-dose values by 240 h. In the Lonquex groups, the peak 
serum concentrations occurred around 46 - 48 h after dosing and were elevated with increasing 
Lonquex dose in a roughly dose-dependent manner. In the 6 mg Neulasta group, serum 
concentrations rose more rapidly to a maximum at about 8 h, which was lower compared to 4.5 
mg and 6 mg Lonquex. A similar pattern was found for AUC0-t and AUCinf, where the means for 
the Lonquex groups increased in a dose-dependent manner and values for the 6 mg Neulasta 
group were lower than those for the 4.5 mg and 6 mg Lonquex groups. In cycle 4, lipegfilgrastim 
and pegfilgrastim serum concentrations reached a maximum between 8 to 16 h after dosing, and 
returned to pre-dose values by 240 h. Overall, mean serum concentrations were markedly lower 
in cycle 4 than in cycle 1 for all treatment groups. 
In the phase III breast cancer study XM22-03, in cycle 1, mean serum concentrations of Lonquex 
and Neulasta reached a maximum between 24 and 48 h after dosing and returned to 
approximately pre-dose values by 240 h. The peak concentration following administration of 6 
mg Neulasta was comparable with that following 6 mg Lonquex; however, the decline of the 
Neulasta serum concentration appeared more rapidly and a higher AUC for Lonquex compared to 
Neulasta was observed. In cycle 4, the mean serum concentrations increased in both treatment 
groups, reaching a maximum at around 8 h in the Lonquex and the Neulasta group and returning 
to pre-dose values by 216 h in both groups. At cycle 4, the peak concentration following 
administration of 6 mg Neulasta was higher and the decline in serum appeared delayed 
compared to 6 mg Lonquex and a higher AUC for Neulasta than for Lonquex was observed. 
In phase III lung carcinoma study XM22-04, in cycle 1, mean serum concentrations of 
lipegfilgrastim reached a maximum about 24 h after dosing and returned to approximately pre-
dose values by 240 h. Lipegfilgrastim concentrations were around zero for placebo-treated 
patients. In cycle 4, the mean serum concentrations reached a maximum at around 8 h and 
returned to pre-dose values by 240 h. Mean serum concentrations in cycle 4 were lower than in 
cycle 1.  
Both in cycle 1 and cycle 4 of all the phase II and phase III clinical studies, there was a transient 
deceleration in the decline of serum concentrations (or a slightly transient increase) between 96 
and 168 h after dosing in all treatment groups, which corresponds with the time of low ANC 
values in patients. In study XM22-03 it is shown for 6 mg lipegfilgrastim and for 6 mg 
pegfilgrastim that the period of sustained lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgastrim concentrations 
coincided with the ANC nadir characterised by especially low ANC values. As the ANC recovers, 
lipegfilgrastim is again eliminated more rapidly. Furthermore, the study results are consistent 
with findings for pegfilgrastim (Neulasta).  
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 30/108 
 
  
  
In summary, at the Lonquex target dose of 6 mg in patients, a higher AUC for Lonquex 
compared to 6 mg Neulasta was observed in cycle 1. Overall, mean lipegfilgrastim serum 
concentrations in cycle 4 were lower than in cycle 1. 
Elimination 
In the phase II Study XM22-02, and in both cycles 1 and 4, a transient deceleration in the 
decline of serum concentrations could be observed during 96 and 168 h after dosing in all 
treatment groups. These results are consistent with the self-regulating clearance mechanism 
proposed for Neulasta. Thus, Lonquex seemed to be cleared mainly by the same elimination 
processes as Neulasta. No information was provided on the pharmacokinetics of metabolites. 
In order to more fully evaluate the pharmacokinetics of Lonquex, a population pharmacokinetic 
model was developed using data from healthy volunteers, breast cancer patients, and lung 
cancer patients. In summary, the basic model is comprised of two compartments (the 
subcutaneous depot and the serum) and has two distinct clearance pathways. The first clearance 
pathway is linear and is likely comprised of endogenous protein degradation. The second 
pathway is non-linear neutrophil-mediated clearance that is dependent on absolute neutrophil 
count (ANC). Of note, model development was limited to data following administration of the 
proposed therapeutic dose (6 mg) or equivalent (100 µg/kg). Since comparison of model-
predicted parameters and parameters from the noncompartmental analyses presented in the 
submission demonstrated comparable estimates, the model was considered to adequately 
describe the data and was used for all subsequent analyses. 
Consequences of genetic polymorphism have not been discussed within the application. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Data regarding dose-proportionality in healthy volunteers were obtained from Study XM22-01, 
where volunteers received 25, 50 and 100 µg/kg. AUC and Cmax for lipegfilgrastim increased 
more than dose-proportional. Non-linear clearance in healthy volunteers is also reported for 
pegfilgrastim. 
No multiple dose studies allowing evaluations regarding time dependency were submitted. 
Based on the pharmacokinetic data submitted, the interindividual variability is moderate to high 
(50-80%). No data regarding intra-individual variability was provided. 
Special populations 
No separate studies in patients with renal impairment were submitted. 
No separate studies in patients with hepatic impairment were submitted. 
In study XM22-06, where healthy subjects received a single 6 mg dose, the secondary objective 
was the comparison of lipegfilgrastim pharmacokinetics in male vs. female subjects. In male 
subjects (n=18), the bioavailability (Cmax and AUC0-t) was higher following s.c. dosing at three 
different administration sites compared to female subjects (n=18). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 31/108 
 
  
  
Mean serum concentration-time profiles show a more prominent effect of the administration site 
on the pharmacokinetics of lipegfilgrastim in male subjects compared to female subjects. 
However, ANC and CD34+ counts after treatment are quite comparable between males and 
females and independent of the injection site.  
The effect of race on Lonquex pharmacokinetics was not discussed by the Applicant. 
In study XM22-05, pharmacokinetics of Lonquex upon a single 6 mg Lonquex dose was analysed 
in different weight subgroups (<60 kg, ≥60kg - <80 kg, and ≥80 kg (maximum weight was 95 
kg)). Exposure, both to Lonquex as well as to Neulasta, appeared to decrease upon increasing 
body weight of the subject, the effect for Lonquex being more pronounced. In Study XM22-05, 
pharmacokinetics of Lonquex upon a single 6 mg dose was compared with that of Neulasta in 
different weight groups (<60 kg, ≥ 60 kg - < 80 kg, and ≥80 kg). However, no analysis of the 
effect of weight on exposure was provided. 
Only a limited number of elderly patients were included in the PK part of the submitted studies. 
In phase III study XM22-04, the effect of age was tested by ANOVA. Although caution is required 
when interpreting this data due to the low sample size in the ≥65-74 years subgroup, PK 
parameters were comparable for patients aged <65 and ≥65-74 years in cycle 1 and cycle 4. 
Table 7: Number of elderly patients included and analysed in PK trials 
PK Trials 
Controlled Trials 
XM22-02-CH 
XM22-03 
XM22-04 
Non Controlled trials 
Age 65-74 
Older subjects 
number /total 
number 
2/11   (3 mg) 
1/7     (4.5 mg) 
1/8     (6 mg) 
1/17 
7/28 
XM22-01 
XM22-05 
XM22-06 
0 
0 
0 
Age 75-84 
Age 85+ 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
In the aforementioned population pharmacokinetic model, covariate analysis was performed to 
assess the effect of various demographic characteristics as well as disease state on measures of 
volume and clearance (linear and nonlinear). A significant positive correlation between weight 
and volume of distribution as well as weight and nonlinear clearance was identified. However, the 
only statistically significant difference in weight was observed between the heaviest (> 80 kg) 
and the lightest (< 60 kg) groups in the lowest ANC category. In this category, exposure in the 
heaviest individuals was approximately 30% of the exposure in lightest individuals. In addition, a 
significant difference in nonlinear clearance was identified in patients with lung cancer with 
clearance being lower in this population. The covariate analysis did not detect a difference by age 
or gender (data not shown). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 32/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children were excluded from the efficacy studies. However, the applicant has agreed a paediatric 
investigation plan (EMEA-001019-PIP01-10, EMA decision P/112/2011 of 6 May 2011). This 
programme foresees the development of a paediatric presentation in vials to allow a flexible 
dosing and two studies in paediatric cancer patients aged 2 to 18 years with chemotherapy-
induced neutropenia, the fulfilment of which has been deferred for now. The phase I study 
XM22-07 will investigate the pharmacokinetics of Lonquex. The phase III study XM22-08 will 
investigate the efficacy of multiple doses of Lonquex. Safety and tolerability will be investigated 
in both studies. As an additional measure, efficacy results of these studies will be extrapolated to 
the paediatric population less than 2 years of age. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No clinical interaction studies were submitted.  
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Results of an in vitro study using human hepatocytes and investigating the effect of 
lipegfilgrastim on CYP isoforms were described in the Non-clinical section. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
No clinical studies addressing the mechanism of action were submitted. 
Primary and secondary pharmacology 
The pharmacodynamic effect of Lonquex was assessed by measurement of the ANC, as well as 
the measurement of circulating CD34 expressing cells (CD34+ cells).  
The change in ANC or CD34+ cells was calculated by their area over the baseline effect curve 
(AOBEC). For this purpose, the individual baseline value obtained before dosing was subtracted 
from ANC or CD34+ values obtained after dosing, respectively. Furthermore, the maximum ANC 
and CD34+ value (ANCmax, CD34+max), as well as the time when this maximum was reached 
(ANCtmax and CD34+tmax) were determined. 
The pharmacodynamics of Lonquex in healthy subjects was investigated in studies XM22-01, 
XM22-05 and XM22-06. 
In study XM22-01, the PK evaluation revealed longer lipegfilgrastim t1/2 and MRT values for all 
Lonquex dose levels compared to 100 µg/kg Neulasta. Thus, a dose of 50 µg/kg Lonquex exerted 
a similar effect on ANC area over the baseline effect curve (AOBEC) and CD34+ AOBEC 
compared to 100 µg/kg Neulasta (despite the 75 % lower serum lipegfilgrastim peak and 
cumulative exposure) whereas 100 µg/kg Lonquex resulted in a significantly higher effect on ANC 
AOBEC and CD34+ AOBEC compared to 100 µg/kg Neulasta.  
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 33/108 
 
  
  
In study XM22-05, in the Lonquex group receiving a 6 mg dose, the ANC AOBEC showed an 
increase by about 30% whereas the AUC had increased by about 64 % compared to 6 mg 
Neulasta (which has a lower G-CSF exposure). CD34+ cell count related parameters did not 
differ significantly between treatments. 
In study XM22-06, ANC increased after s.c. injection of 6 mg Lonquex in all three treatment 
groups (upper arm, abdomen, thigh). ANC time profiles were characterised from 0 to 504 h after 
injection and were similar for all three treatments. Maximum counts were observed at 72 h after 
injection in the upper arm and at 48 h after injection in the abdomen and in the thigh. ANCmax 
and ANC AOBEC were slightly higher after s.c. injection of 6 mg Lonquex in the upper arm than 
after injection in the thigh and after injection in the abdomen. CD34+ cell count-time profiles 
were characterised from 0 to 504 h after injection. The profiles were similar for the different 
treatments. Maximum cell counts were observed at approximately 96 h after injection. CD34+max 
and CD34+ AOBEC were slightly higher or similar after s.c. injection of 6 mg Lonquex in the 
upper arm than after injection in the abdomen and after injection in the thigh. 
In the same study XM22-06, where subjects received a single 6 mg Lonquex dose, the secondary 
objective was the comparison of Lonquex pharmacodynamics in male vs. female subjects. Using 
ANOVA and 95% confidence intervals, no significant gender effects were observed for ANC and 
CD34+. 
Finally, in study XM22-05, the effect of weight on ANC and CD34+ was assessed in different body 
weight categories, i.e., subject <60 kg, subjects ≥60kg - <80 kg, and subjects ≥80 kg 
(maximum weight was 95 kg). In the Neulasta group, a trend of decreasing ANC AOBEC, CD34+ 
AOBEC and CD34+max with increasing body weight was observed; however, in the Lonquex group 
the geometric mean ANC AOBEC and CD34+ AOBEC remained similar or decreased slightly, in 
the case of geometric mean CD34+max, with increasing body weight. 
The pharmacodynamics of Lonquex in patients was investigated in phase II study XM22-02-INT 
and phase III studies XM22-03 and XM22-04. 
In phase II study XM22-02-INT in breast cancer patients, pharmacodynamic results indicated a 
dose-dependent effect of Lonquex, showing higher CD34+ cell counts with increasing doses, at 
least in chemotherapy cycle 1. Point estimate and 90% CI showed superiority in CD34+max for 6 
mg Lonquex compared with 6 mg Neulasta in cycle 1. Between-cycle comparisons revealed that 
parameters calculated for cycle 1 had higher values compared with cycle 4, but only the 
differences in the Neulasta group were statistically significant (p=0.011 and p=0.025 for 
CD34+AOBEC and CD34+max, respectively). 
In Phase III study XM22-03, ANC profiles following single s.c. injections of 6 mg Lonquex or 6 
mg Neulasta in patients with breast cancer receiving CTX in cycle 1 showed a comparable DSN in 
both treatment groups, with a mean (±standard deviation [SD]) DSN of 0.8±0.9 days in the 
Neulasta group and 0.7±0.9 days in the Lonquex group. Mean and median DSN were lower from 
that expected in non-G-CSF treated patients. Approximately 120 h after administration in cycle 
1, CD34+ cell count increased steeply to maximum values at around 168 to 240 h and declined 
thereafter. Increases in CD34+ cell counts during cycle 4 were markedly lower than in cycle 1. In 
the first chemotherapy cycle, CD34+ AUC and CD34+max results (assessed based on non-
baseline corrected cell counts) indicated a comparable or slightly higher effect of Lonquex in 
terms of geometric mean, showing a trend to higher cell counts but without statistical 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 34/108 
 
  
  
significance. In cycle 4, only slightly differences in CD34+ AUC, CD34+max and CD34+tmax 
between Lonquex and Neulasta groups were observed. Between-cycle comparisons showed that 
the CD34+ AUC and CD34+max parameters calculated for the first cycle had higher values 
compared with the last cycle (cycle 4). 
In phase III study XM22-04, patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving 
cisplatin/etoposide chemotherapy received Lonquex or placebo for up to a maximum of four 
cycles. An increased ANC was observed in the Lonquex group, as compared to placebo. In the 
Lonquex group, about 144 h after administration in cycle 1, CD34+ cell count increased steeply 
to maximum values at around 240 h and declined thereafter. No major increase in CD34+ cell 
count was observed in the placebo group. The increases in CD34+ cell counts during cycle 4 
were markedly lower with no major increase observed in either group. In the first chemotherapy 
cycle, CD34+ AUC and CD34+max results indicated an effect of Lonquex, showing over 3-fold 
higher cell counts compared to placebo (non-baseline adjusted). In cycle 4, only slight 
differences in CD34+ AUC, CD34+max and CD34+tmax between Lonquex and placebo groups were 
observed. Between-cycle comparisons showed that the Lonquex CD34+ AUC and CD34+max 
parameters calculated for the first cycle had higher values compared with the last cycle. 
Secondary pharmacology was not discussed by the applicant. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The evaluation of the pharmacokinetics of Lonquex for the proposed indication was generally in 
line with scientific advice received by the Applicant and in line with the guidance provided in the 
guideline on clinical trials with haematopoietic growth factors for the prophylaxis of infection 
following myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy (EMEA/CPMP/555/95 Rev.1). The Applicant 
has also considered the guideline on the clinical investigations of pharmacokinetics of therapeutic 
proteins (CHMP/EQP/89249/2004) in developing the PK programme.  
Due to the presence of the PEG group in lipegfilgrastim, elimination is reduced, yielding a t1/2 of 
approximately 30 h for lipegfilgrastim, compared to 3 h for filgrastim. Lipegfilgrastim elimination 
is strongly dependent on neutrophil count and therefore the pharmacokinetics is different 
between healthy volunteers with normal neutrophil count and cancer patients with low neutrophil 
counts. In 3 studies (XM22-01, XM22-05, XM22-06) in healthy volunteers, the maximum blood 
concentration was reached after a median of 30 to 36 hours and the average terminal half-life 
ranged from approximately 32 to 62 hours after a single subcutaneous injection of 6 mg 
lipegfilgrastim. In breast cancer patients, tmax in the first cycle of chemotherapy treatment was 
obtained between 24 and 48 hours after dosing, and t1/2 ranged from 28 to 30 hours, allowing for 
a single dose per neutropenic chemotherapy cycle. This exposure yields a marked increase in 
ANC, with maximum response obtained after approximately 24 hours. 
In both healthy subjects and patients in the target population, the cumulative exposure (AUC0-∞) 
and peak exposure (Cmax) of Lonquex 6mg were significantly higher than in patients administered 
Neulasta 6mg (by approximately 64% and 36% in study XM22-05). This effect was also seen 
within the predefined subgroup analyses undertaken (male vs. female; age <65 years vs. age 
>65 years; weight subgroups (60kg, 60-<80 kg, >80 kg)). The subgroup comparisons suggested 
a higher bioavailability in men, those under 60 kg and those <65 years of age. However, the 
numbers of patients within the subgroups were too small to allow meaningful conclusions to be 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 35/108 
 
  
  
drawn from the data. Therefore the Applicant undertook population PK analyses to analyse the 
differences between subgroups (data not shown). The analyses suggested that once corrected for 
absolute neutrophil count there were only appreciable exposure differences between genders and 
lung and breast cancer patients who had low mean ANC counts during treatment. These did not 
translate into notable differences in pharmacodynamic outputs or in efficacy. Only for the 
different weight categories (<60kg vs. >80kg) were there seen to be clinically and statistically 
significant differences in PK outcomes, with exposures being significantly lower in heavier 
patients. This led to some differences in PD outputs, although most not statistically significant. 
The analyses presented raised some concern of underdosing and underexposure for very heavy 
patients (>95kg). However, a cycle 1 duration of severe neutropenia (DSN) sub-analysis from 
the breast cancer studies, for which the concern was initially greatest, showed rates in patients 
>95kg to be similar to those in the <95kg subgroups. Possible differences between weight 
categories for other efficacy parameters, e.g. febrile neutropenia and time to recovery of ANC, 
were not explored. Furthermore, data suggesting no effect of reduced exposure in heavy patients 
on clinical outcome were based on a very limited number of patients over 95kg. Therefore, the 
data are not considered conclusive and possible differences in efficacy have not been excluded. 
Relevant information has been included in section 5.2 of the SmPC and underdosing in heavy 
patients was included as a potential risk in the RMP. 
Due to the neutrophil mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of lipegfilgrastim is 
not expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. Limited patient data indicate that the 
pharmacokinetics of lipegfilgrastim in elderly patients (65 - 74 years) is similar to that in younger 
patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients ≥ 75 years. 
Following subcutaneous injection of 6 mg lipegfilgrastim at three different sites (upper arm, 
abdomen and thigh) in healthy volunteers, the bioavailability (peak concentration and area under 
the curve [AUC]) was lower after subcutaneous injection in the thigh compared to subcutaneous 
injection in the abdomen and in the upper arm. In this limited study XM22-06, bioavailability of 
lipegfilgrastim and observed differences among the injection sites were higher in male subjects 
compared to female subjects. Nevertheless, pharmacodynamic effects were similar and 
independent from gender and injection site. 
Data from studies XM22-01 and XM22-02-INT showed that the exposures generally increased in 
a dose dependent manner. Notably, in the dose ranging study, XM22-02-INT, the 4.5mg dose 
was associated with higher exposures than the Neulasta 6mg dose. Cumulative and peak 
exposures were higher in cycle 1 compared to cycle 4 in general for all doses. It is proposed that 
this is due to higher neutrophil counts (AUC AOBEC) and reduced lengths and severity of 
neutropenias seen in cycle 4 compared to cycle 1. As neutrophil-mediated uptake is the proposed 
principal mechanism of elimination of the protein, this appears logical. In addition, data from the 
immunogenicity testing exercise did not suggest that the cycle associated decrease in exposure 
is related to the presence of binding antibodies. The above phenomenon had also been seen with 
Neulasta. 
Lipegfilgrastim is metabolised via intra- or extracellular degradation by proteolytic enzymes. 
Lipegfilgrastim is internalised by neutrophils (non-linear process), then degraded within the cell 
by endogenous proteolytic enzymes. The linear pathway is likely due to extracellular protein 
degradation by neutrophil elastase and other plasma proteases. Longer terminal half-lives and 
mean residence times were seen for Lonquex, indicating that metabolism and clearance were 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 36/108 
 
  
  
significantly slower for Lonquex than for Neulasta. The Applicant proposed that in addition to the 
neutrophil mediated clearance mechanism for Neulasta, additional clearance mechanisms may 
exist, which may not be relevant for Lonquex.  
There are noteworthy differences in PK parameters (Cmax and AUC0-t) between breast cancer 
patients administered Lonquex 6mg and lung cancer patients administered the same dose, with 
AUC and Cmax measurements being substantially higher in lung cancer patients than in breast 
cancer patients and with clearance being lower in the lung cancer population. These 
discrepancies remain largely unexplained and they have been reflected in section 5.2 of the 
SmPC. 
In vitro data indicate that lipegfilgrastim has little or no direct or immune system mediated 
effects on CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4/5 activity. Therefore, 
lipegfilgrastim is not likely to affect metabolism via human cytochrome P450 enzymes. 
Due to the potential sensitivity of rapidly dividing myeloid cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy, 
Lonquex should be administered approximately 24 hours after administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. Concomitant use of lipegfilgrastim with any chemotherapeutic medicinal product 
has not been evaluated in patients. In animal models, concomitant administration of G CSF and 
5 fluorouracil (5 FU) or other antimetabolites has been shown to potentiate myelosuppression. 
The safety and efficacy of Lonquex have not been evaluated in patients receiving chemotherapy 
associated with delayed myelosuppression, e.g. nitrosoureas. 
The potential for interaction with lithium, which also promotes the release of neutrophils, has not 
been specifically investigated. There is no evidence that such an interaction would be harmful. 
With regard to the mechanism of action it is accepted that Lonquex specifically binds to the G-
CSF receptor. However, the tissue distribution of the G-CSF receptor and of Lonquex once 
administered, and potential off-target effects were not discussed. The presence of G-CSF 
receptors on certain tumour cells, (e.g. gastric adenocarcinoma, breast cancer, NSCLC, small cell 
lung cancer head and neck carcinomas) has been reported in in vitro and in vivo studies, with 
some reports suggesting increases in malignant behaviour after exposure of certain tumour cells 
to G-CSF.  
As with PK outcomes, Lonquex 6mg, administered subcutaneously, was shown to improve the 
evaluated PD outcomes in cancer patients administered cytotoxic chemotherapy compared to 
placebo. Significantly reduced duration and incidence of severe neutropenia and reduced time to 
ANC recovery were seen. Concurrently, significant increases in ANC, ANC nadir, CD34+ 
mobilisation were experienced by Lonquex treated patients.  
In general, PD comparisons to Neulasta in breast cancer patients showed that Lonquex was not 
inferior to Neulasta. Indeed, the point estimate and 90% CI stated superiority in the CD34+max 
endpoint in cycle 1 for 6 mg Lonquex compared with 6 mg Neulasta.  Most other PD outcomes in 
cycle 1 were better for Lonquex 6mg than Neulasta 6mg but the differences were not statistically 
significant.  Notably, in healthy subjects, the magnitude of the difference in ANC AOBEC of 
Lonquex 6mg over Neulasta 6 mg was not as large as that seen for  AUC (of drug) (56-64% 
higher AUC but only 30-32% higher ANC for Lonquex vs. Neulasta AOBEC). However, the 
population pharmacokinetic study indicated the existence of a plateau in CD34+ response upon 
increased lipegfilgrastim exposure, so that 6 mg Lonquex appeared to produce, at least for some 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 37/108 
 
  
  
time points, maximum effects on granulopoiesis in healthy subjects; therefore, the ability to 
stimulate the PD effector system seemed to be saturated.  
Nevertheless, the seemingly higher potency of Lonquex compared to Neulasta could potentially 
be related to the safety signal of potentially increased tumour progression and mortality 
discussed in the Clinical safety and Benefit-Risk sections. The Applicant’s attempt to investigate 
the association between mortality and PD or PK parameters (e.g. AUC; Cmax; ANC; 
lymphopenia, data not shown) was non-informative. 
Data from study XM22-02-INT show a dose dependent effect of PD parameters as for PK 
outcomes, lending support to the choice of 6mg as the optimal dose, at least on the basis of PD 
data. Moreover, an analysis of pooled data was performed to better understand the exposure-
response relationship for Lonquex. An Emax model with ANC AOBEC data from healthy volunteers 
fit the data with an EC50 of approximately 1300 mg*h/mL and an EC90 of approximately 
11,600 ng*h/mL. However, when ANC AOBEC values for cancer patients are overlaid on those for 
the healthy volunteers, the patient data almost entirely fall below Emax. On the contrary, an Emax 
model adequately fit CD34+ data for all populations with an EC50 of approximately 
2100 ng*h/mL and an EC90 of approximately 19,000 ng*h/mL. This value is comparable to the 
mean predicted AUC0-tlast value for a 6 mg dose of Lonquex in the pooled database 
(19,748 ng*h/mL). 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
In general, the Applicant has sufficiently described the pharmacokinetics of Lonquex. The 
pharmacodynamic effects of Lonquex are well demonstrated in studies in both healthy subjects 
and the proposed target population. However, there are some gaps in the PD package, 
primarily related to insufficient discussion of direct and potential effects of Lonquex on tumours 
and other tissues harbouring G-CSF receptors and of off-target effects of the drug. This issue is 
further discussed and addressed in the Clinical safety section.    
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Two pivotal and one dose-finding study supported the efficacy and safety of Lonquex. The main 
characteristics of the three studies are summarised in the following Table 8. 
Table 8: Clinical efficacy studies of Lonquex 
Study No. 
Phase 
Subject/ 
Patient type 
XM22-02-INT 
II 
Breast cancer 
XM22-03 
III 
Breast cancer 
6 mg 
Lonquex 
Comparator 
3, 4.5, or 
6 mg 
Neulasta 
6 mg 
Neulasta 
6 mg 
Treatment 
duration 
No. 
treated 
12 weeks 
208 
12 weeks 
202 
XM22-04 
III 
NSCLC 
6 mg 
Placebo 
12 weeks 
373 
NSCLC = Non-small cell lung cancer 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 38/108 
 
  
  
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
Study XM22-02-INT 
Methods 
The study recruited men and women aged ≥18 years with high risk breast cancer (stage II, III or 
IV, classification according to American Joint Committee on Cancer [AJCC]). The study excluded 
patients with prior malignancy within the previous 5 years other than basal cell or squamous cell 
carcinomas or in situ carcinoma of the cervix as well as previous exposure to filgrastim, 
pegfilgrastim, lenograstim, or other G-CSFs in clinical development. It also forbade treatment 
with systemically active antibiotics within 72 h before CTX and chronic use of oral corticosteroids 
The treatment phase included 4 CTX cycles (3 weeks per cycle); each cycle began on the day of 
CTX administration (day 1). CTX comprised 60 mg/m² doxorubicin given as an intravenous (i.v.) 
bolus injection followed by 75 mg/m² docetaxel given as an i.v. infusion. On day 2 of each cycle, 
the patients were to receive one subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of the study drug. Patients 
received 3, 4.5 or 6 mg of Lonquex or 6 mg of Neulasta. To begin full-dose CTX on day 1 of the 
next cycle (day 22 of the previous cycle), the patient’s ANC had to recover to ≥1.5 x 109/L, and 
the platelet count to ≥100 x 109/L. End of study assessments were to be performed 3 weeks 
after the last CTX infusion. 
CD34+ cell mobilisation properties of Lonquex and Neulasta were to be determined in a total of 
up to 12 patients per treatment group in selected centres. The centres and patients were chosen 
due to logistic considerations. These patients were independent from the patients recruited for 
the PK subgroup. Blood samples were to be taken in cycles 1 and 4 at the following time points: 
day 1 (before CTX), day 2 (before study drug administration), and at 24 h (day 3), 48 h (day 4), 
72 h (day 5), 96 h (day 6), 120 h (day 7), 144 h (day 8), 168 h (day 9), 240 h (day 12), and 
312 h (day 15) after study drug administration. 
The primary objective was the finding of the optimal fixed dose of Lonquex compared to 6 mg 
Neulasta in patients with breast cancer receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy (CTX). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was duration of severe neutropenia (DSN) in days, in cycle 1. 
Severe neutropenia was defined as grade 4 neutropenia with an ANC <0.5 x 109/L. Secondary 
endpoints included: 
• 
Incidence of febrile neutropenia in cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4 and across all cycles. Febrile 
neutropenia was defined as axillary body temperature of >38.5°C for more than 1 h and ANC 
<0.5 x 109/L, both measured on the same day. 
•  DSN in cycles 2, 3, and 4.  
•  Duration of very severe neutropenia (DVSN) (ANC <0.1 x 109/L), measured in days. 
• 
Incidence of very severe neutropenia (ANC <0.1 x 109/L) per treatment group. The incidence 
of very severe neutropenia is the same as the frequency of nadir <0.1 x 109/L. 
•  Safety and laboratory endpoints: adverse events, mortality, haematology, clinical chemistry, 
immunogenicity 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 39/108 
 
  
  
Few patients in the study discontinued treatment prematurely. Reasons for premature study 
discontinuation are summarised in the following Table 9. 
Table 9: Primary reasons for premature discontinuation of study medication; XM22-02-
INT, ITT population 
Baseline patient demographic characteristics and the reasons for administration of chemotherapy 
are summarised in the following Table 10. 
Table 10: Baseline demographic patient characteristics and reasons for chemotherapy; 
XM22-02-INT, ITT population  
Results 
Results in terms of the primary endpoint of duration of severe neutropenia (DSN) are presented 
in the following Table 11. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 40/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 11: DSN (days) in cycle 1; XM22-02-INT, ITT population 
Results from secondary endpoints are presented in the following Tables 12 and 13. 
Table 12: Numbers and percentage of patients with ‘protocol-defined FN’ by cycle 
across cycles; XM22-02-INT, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 41/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 13: DSN (days) in cycles 2, 3 and 4; XM22-02-INT, ITT population 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
XM22-03 
Methods 
XM22-03 was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III study 
comparing Lonquex versus Neulasta in patients with high-risk stage II, III, or IV breast cancer 
requiring chemotherapy (CTX). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 42/108 
 
  
  
 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria 
•  Men and women aged ≥18 years 
•  Breast cancer high risk stage II, III or IV (classification according to American Joint 
Committee on Cancer [AJCC]) 
•  Chemotherapy-naïve 
• 
ECOG performance status ≤2 
•  ANC ≥1.5 x 109/L 
• 
Platelet count ≥100 x 109/L 
•  Adequate cardiac function (LVEF ≥50% on echocardiography or equivalent method within 4 
weeks prior to randomisation) 
•  Adequate hepatic function, (i.e. alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase 
(ALT and AST) <2.5 x upper limit of normal (ULN), alkaline phosphatase (AP) <5 x ULN, 
bilirubin <ULN) 
•  Adequate renal function (i.e. creatinine <1.5 x ULN) 
Exclusion criteria 
• 
• 
Participation in a clinical trial within 30 days before randomisation 
Previous exposure to filgrastim, pegfilgrastim or lenograstim or other G-CSFs in clinical 
development less than 6 months before randomisation 
•  Known hypersensitivity to docetaxel or doxorubicin, filgrastim, pegfilgrastim or lenograstim 
•  Underlying neuropathy of grade 2 or higher 
• 
Treatment with systemically active antibiotics within 72 hours before CTX 
•  Chronic use of oral corticosteroids 
• 
• 
• 
Prior radiation therapy or tumour surgery within 4 weeks before randomisation 
Prior bone marrow or stem cell transplantation 
Pregnant or nursing women or women of child-bearing potential who did not agree to use a 
highly effective method of birth control 
Treatments 
The patients were to undergo a maximum of 4 CTX cycles (3 weeks per cycle), each cycle 
beginning on the day of CTX (day 1). One day after CTX, on day 2 of each cycle, the patients 
were to receive one s.c. injection of the study drug. 
All randomised patients were to receive myelosuppressive CTX on day 1 of each cycle (60 mg/m2 
doxorubicin as an intravenous (i.v.) bolus injection followed by 75 mg/m2 docetaxel as an i.v. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 43/108 
 
  
  
infusion over at least 1 hour, administered 1 hour later). A prophylactic corticosteroid treatment 
could accompany the docetaxel therapy according to a standard regimen (e.g. 8 mg 
dexamethasone twice daily for 3 days starting 1 day before CTX). Other prophylactic procedures 
to reduce CTX-induced side effects (e.g. antiemesis, mucositis prophylaxis) were to be performed 
according to local standards. 
Study drug (6 mg Lonquex or 6 mg Neulasta) was to be given in the abdomen, upper arm or 
thigh as a s.c. injection on day 2, approximately 24 hours after start of CTX. CTX was repeated 
every 3 weeks (unless a dose delay was necessary) for a maximum of 4 cycles. To begin full-
dose CTX on day 1 of each subsequent cycle, the patient had to have recovered to an ANC of 
≥1.5 x 109/L and a platelet count of ≥100 x 109/L. A delay of the subsequent cycle for up to 14 
days was acceptable. 
The following concomitant treatments were not permitted during the treatment phase of the 
study: radiotherapy affecting bone marrow, other investigational drugs, other G-CSFs, 
transfusions of granulocytes (allowed only in case of manifest life threatening infections), other 
cytotoxic treatment, lithium, prophylaxis with systemically active antibiotics (i.e. intravenous, 
intramuscular or oral), trastuzumab. 
If clinically necessary, systemically active antibiotics were allowed for increased body 
temperature above 38.5°C orally associated with neutropenia (i.e. ANC value <0.5 × 109/L) as 
well as for a proven (microbiologically documented infection or clinically or radiologically 
documented infection) and medically relevant infection. 
Antipyretics were only to be started if two consecutive measurements at least 1 h apart of oral 
body temperature >38.5°C had been documented, or after treatment with systemic antibiotics 
had been started. 
The use of oral or i.v. corticosteroids was to be avoided because steroids might influence ANC 
values. However, if deemed absolutely necessary for the treatment of the patient (e.g. to 
prevent or immediately treat a hypersensitivity reaction to a chemotherapeutic drug), 
corticosteroids were allowed but had to be documented in the CRF. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was demonstration of non-inferiority of the efficacy of 
lipegfilgrastim (Lonquex) versus pegfilgrastim (Neulasta) in patients with breast cancer during 
the first cycle of CTX. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
•  Demonstration of efficacy and safety of lipegfilgrastim in comparison to pegfilgrastim in 
patients with breast cancer under CTX. 
• 
Evaluation of pharmacokinetic properties of lipegfilgrastim in comparison to pegfilgrastim. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 44/108 
 
  
  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the DSN in days, in cycle 1; severe neutropenia was defined 
as grade 4 neutropenia with an ANC <0.5 x 109/L. DSN was calculated as the sum of all days 
after CTX with ANC <0.5 x 109/L. If ANC did not drop to <0.5 x 109/L, DSN was defined to be 
zero. In case of insufficient ANC data in a given cycle, DSN was imputed. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
• 
Incidence of FN in cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4 and across all cycles, as assessed by the 
investigator. 
•  DSN in cycles 2, 3, and 4. 
The following secondary efficacy endpoints were evaluated in cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4: 
• 
Incidence of severe neutropenia, defined as grade 4 (ANC <0.5 x 109/L).  
•  Duration of very severe neutropenia (DVSN) (ANC <0.1 x 109/L), measured in days. 
• 
Incidence of very severe neutropenia (ANC <0.1 x 109/L). 
•  Depth of ANC nadir. The patient’s lowest ANC in each cycle was to be determined. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Time to ANC nadir, defined as the time in days from CTX administration until the occurrence 
of the ANC nadir. 
Time to ANC recovery, defined as the time in days from CTX administration until the 
patient’s ANC increased to ≥2.0 x 109/L after the expected nadir. 
Time to ANC recovery from ANC nadir, defined as difference in days between the day of the 
occurrence of ANC nadir to the first day after ANC nadir with an ANC value ≥1.5 x 109/L. 
Time in days in hospital and time in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) due to FN or connected 
infections. 
Incidence of treatment with i.v. antibiotics due to FN or connected infections, defined as the 
number of patients receiving i.v. antibiotics per cycle and across all cycles. 
Percentage of actually delivered vs. scheduled cumulative CTX dose per patient. 
Proportion of patients with CTX doses reduced, omitted, or delayed. 
•  Number of days of delay of CTX. 
•  Overall QoL, as assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) and the breast cancer 
specific module EORTC QLQ-BR23. 
•  CD34+ cell mobilisation. 
Sample size 
The aim of the study was to confirm the non-inferiority of Lonquex compared to Neulasta 
concerning the DSN defined as days with ANC <0.5 x 109/L in CTX cycle 1. The non-inferiority 
margin ∆ was set to 1 day and non-inferiority would be regarded as confirmed if the upper limit 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 45/108 
 
  
  
of the two-side 95% CI for the difference of the expected DSN difference µ(Lonquex minus 
µNeulasta) would be smaller than 1 day. Allowing for a difference between µLonquex and 
µNeulasta 0.25 days in favour of Neulasta and assuming a common standard deviation of about 
1.5 days, it was calculated that to assure a power of 90%, at least 86 patients per treatment 
group should be available for the statistical analysis in the non-inferiority test. Because the 
confirmation of non-inferiority was planned to be performed in the according-to-protocol (ATP) 
population, and it was expected that up-to 10% of the randomised patients would not be 
available for the ATP population, it was planned to randomise about 100 patients to each of the 
two treatment groups in the study. A total number of 200 patients were randomised. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomised to receive either 6 mg Lonquex (n = 101) or 6 mg Neulasta (n = 101) 
with a ratio of 1:1. Patients were stratified by country. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
For the analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint, a Poisson regression with identity link was 
applied including ‘treatment’, country, kind of therapy, and body weight as fixed factors, and 
with the last ANC value measured prior to start of the study treatment (baseline ANC) as 
covariate. The model also included an overdispersion factor. 
The possible categories of the class variables were: country (Russia, Ukraine), kind of therapy 
(adjuvant therapy (including the codes ‘neo-adjuvant’, ‘adjuvant + metastatic’ and ’neo-adjuvant 
+ metastatic’), metastatic disease) and body weight (≤60 kg, >60 kg and ≤75 kg, >75 kg). 
The 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) for the difference in expected DSN for Lonquex and 
Neulasta was to be used to confirm the statistical hypothesis. 
If the upper limit of the 2-sided 95% CI was less than 1, then the hypothesis was to be regarded 
as confirmed and further interpretation of the results (i.e. switching from non-inferiority to 
superiority if the upper CI limit is smaller than –1) should follow. 
Where applicable, for secondary efficacy endpoints for which regression analyses were planned in 
the study protocol, the same statistical models were estimated as for the main efficacy endpoint. 
Subgroup analyses were performed, stratified by country, by centre, by reason for CTX, and by 
body weight. 
An interim analysis was not planned or performed in this study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 46/108 
 
  
  
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
Assessed for 
Eligibility 
(n=218)  
Randomised (n=202) 
Excluded (n=16) 
Not meeting inclusion criteria 
(n=12) 
Withdrawal of consent (n=4) 
Allocated to Neulasta (n=101) 
Received allocated Neulasta (n=101) 
Allocated to Lonquex (n=101) 
Received allocated Lonquex (n=101) 
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Premature study discontinuation 
(n=3) 
Consent withdrawn (n=1)  
Adverse event (n=2) 
Analysed ITT and SP (n=101)  
CD34+ sub-study (n=13) 
Excluded from analysis in ATP 
population (n=7, more than one 
protocol violation per patient were 
possible); Baseline ANC too low 
(n=5); Important variable values 
missing (n=2);Too few ANC 
measurements available in cycle 1 
(n=2) 
Premature study discontinuation (n=6) 
Consent withdrawn (n=2)  
Progression of underlying disease (n=1)  
Adverse event (n=1) 
Death (n=1) 
Other (n=1) 
Analysed ITT and SP (n=101)  
CD34+ sub-study (n=14) 
Excluded from analysis in ATP 
population (n=7*);  
Baseline ANC too low (n=3) 
Important variable values missing (n=4) 
Prohibited rescue medication (n=1) 
Too few ANC measurements available in 
cycle 1 (n=4) 
Recruitment 
The first patient was enrolled on 18 May 2010 and the last patient entered on 31 August 2010.  
Conduct of the study 
The original final protocol (issued on 29 September 2009) was amended by 2 global 
amendments. At the dates of the global amendments no patients had been screened. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 47/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global amendment 1, 28 October 2009: in the wording of the secondary endpoint FN, ‘for more 
than’ was replaced by ‘for at least’, i.e., FN was defined as body temperature of >38.5ºC for at 
least one hour. In addition, the time frame for acceptance of the screening safety laboratory was 
prolonged from 4 to 5 days before baseline for logistic reasons.  
Global amendment 2, 26 November 2009: for logistical reasons, it was decided that the daily 
ANC values would be analysed in local or regional laboratories rather than in the central 
laboratory. 
Patients with major protocol violations were analysed in the ITT and the safety populations only; 
they were excluded from the ATP population. In total 14 patients with major protocol violations 
were identified. These included: low baseline ANC (1.5 x 109/L) (5 patients in the Neulasta group 
and 3 in the Lonquex group); important variable values missing (2 patients in the Neulasta group 
and 4 patients in the Lonquex group); prohibited rescue medication (1 patient in the Lonquex 
group) and too few ANC measurement available in cycle 1 (<6 measurements) (2 patients in the 
Neulasta group and 4 patients in the Lonquex group). For some patients more than one major 
protocol violation was detected.  
Minor protocol violation occurred in 52 patients in the Neulasta group (51.5%) and in 62 patients 
in the Lonquex group (61.4%). Minor protocol violation included: pregnant or nursing women 
and women with child-bearing potential, prior malignancy within the previous 5 years, limited 
number of ANC measurements available in cycle 1, limited number of ANC measurements 
available in cycle 2, limited number of ANC measurements available in cycle 3, limited number of 
ANC measurements available in cycle 4, premature discontinuation of the study and baseline 
platelet count too low.  
Baseline data 
Baseline patient demographic characteristics and the reasons for administration of chemotherapy 
are summarised in the following Table 14. Baseline disease characteristics are presented in 
Table 15. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 48/108 
 
  
  
Table 14: Demographic characteristics and reason for CTX; XM22-03, ITT population 
Table 15: Disease characteristics of breast cancer ITT population; XM22-03 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 49/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Three data sets were analysed in this study: the intention-to-treat (ITT) population, the 
according-to-protocol (ATP) population, and the safety population (SP). Moreover, a sub-study 
population of 27 patients was analysed for the CD34+ sub-study. The ITT and SP were identical 
and comprised 101 patients in each treatment group. 7 patients in each treatment group had 
major protocol violations and were excluded from the ATP population. Therefore the ATP 
population comprised 94 patients in each treatment group. The ATP population was the primary 
population used for the efficacy analyses. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Analyses of primary efficacy endpoint 
Results are summarised in the following Tables 16 and 17 and Figure 5. 
Table 16: DSN (days) in cycle 1; XM22-03, ATP population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 50/108 
 
  
  
 
Table 17: DSN (days) in cycle 1 stratified by body weight, country and reason for CTX; 
XM22-03, ATP population 
Figure 5: Time course of measured median ANC in cycle 1; XM22-03, ATP population 
Analyses of secondary efficacy endpoints 
In the ATP population only 3 patients had investigator-assessed febrile neutropenia (FN) during 
the study. All 3 cases occurred in the Neulasta group during cycle 1, with no FN cases in the 
Lonquex group. 
Table 18: Numbers and percentages of patients with investigator-assessed FN per 
cycle and across cycles; XM22-03, ATP population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 51/108 
 
  
  
 
 
In the ITT population, 3 patients in the Neulasta group (same patients as in the ATP population) 
and 1 patient in the Lonquex group had investigator-assessed FN during the study. This 
Lonquex-treated patient with investigator-assessed FN was excluded from the ATP population 
due to missing important variable values, prohibited rescue medication, and too few ANC 
measurements available in cycle 1. 
Results in terms of other secondary endpoints are presented in Tables 19 to 25. 
Table 19: DSN (days) in cycles 2, 3 and 4; XM22-03, ATP population 
 
Incidence of severe neutropenia in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4 
Table 20: Incidence of severe neutropenia per cycle and across cycles; XM22-03, ATP 
population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 52/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21: Incidence of very severe neutropenia per cycle and across cycles; XM22-03, 
ATP population  
Table 22: Depth of ANC nadir (109/L) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-03, ATP population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 53/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 23: Time to ANC nadir (days) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-03, ATP population 
Table 24: Time to ANC recovery (days) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-03, ATP population 
In the ITT population, 2 patients in the Neulasta group and 1 patient in the Lonquex group were 
hospitalised due to FN or infection. All 3 patients were hospitalised during cycle 1. All three 
patients received antibiotics; the Lonquex patient also received antipyretics. One other patient in 
the Neulasta group required antibiotics due to FN in cycle 1 but was not hospitalised. 
The Lonquex patient with hospitalisation due to FN was not included in the ATP population, due 
to a major protocol violation (too few ANC measurements in cycle 1 and use of G-CSF as rescue 
medication) and died after 9 days of CTX after having 3 days with ANC values below 0.5 x 109/L. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 54/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 25: Density and intensity of chemotherapy; XM22-03, ATP population 
QoL was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) and the breast cancer specific module 
EORTC QLQ-BR23 within 24 h before start of CTX administration in cycle 1 and at the end of 
study visit. The completion rate of both QoL questionnaires was high and comparable in both 
treatment groups. For the EORTC QLQ-C30, a consistent deterioration of mean scores was 
observed over the course of the study whereas median changes were 0 for most variables. 
However, for each QLQ-C30 scale the change over the course of the study was comparable in 
both treatment groups. Results for the QLQ BR23 scores were somewhat more variable (breast 
symptoms improved slightly on average) across the scales but consistent between the treatment 
groups (data not shown). 
CD34+ cell count was determined using flow cytometry at a central laboratory. A total of 27 
patients participated in the CD34+ sub-study: 13 patients in the Neulasta group, 14 in Lonquex 
group. In the first CTX cycle, CD34+, AUC and Cmax results were slightly higher for Lonquex in 
terms of median and geometric mean, however the differences were not statistically different 
(data not shown). In cycle 4 only slight differences in CD34+, AUC, Cmax and Tmax between 
Lonquex and Neulasta groups were observed.  
Ancillary analyses 
Due to the increased number of disease progressions compared to placebo reported as adverse 
events in the XM22 arm of the lung cancer study XM22-04, the applicant provided data on 
censoring and survival in study XM22-03. These are presented in Table 26 and Figure 6, 
accordingly. 
Table 26: Last available patient status; XM022-03, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 55/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Figure 6: Kaplan-Meier curve of Overall Survival; XM022-03, ITT population 
Subgroup analyses were performed stratifying patients by body weight, country and reason for 
chemotherapy.  
Table 27: DSN (days) in cycle 1 stratified by body weight, country and reason for CTX; 
XM22-03, ATP population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 56/108 
 
  
  
 
 
No relevant differences were observed in DSN between treatment groups or between treatments 
within subgroups for the secondary endpoints; DSN in cycles 2, 3 and 4, incidence of severe 
neutropenia, incidence and duration of very severe neutropenia and depth of ANC nadir. For the 
endpoints time to ANC nadir, time to ANC recovery, and time to ANC recovery from ANC nadir, 
where differences between the treatment groups were observed in the analysis of subgroups, the 
differences were generally consistent with the main analysis (data not shown). 
Results for the primary endpoint DSN in cycle1 in the ITT population were consistent with those 
for the ATP population (data not shown).  
Results of the sensitivity analysis without imputation of missing ANC values were consistent with 
the main efficacy analysis (data not shown). For the ATP analysis, no patients with imputed DSN 
in cycle 1 were found.  
XM22-04 
Methods 
XM22-04 was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind and placebo-controlled 
phase III study of Lonquex in patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving i.v. 
cisplatin/etoposide chemotherapy. 
Study Participants  
Patients were enrolled in: Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Russia, 
Serbia and Ukraine. 
Inclusion criteria 
•  Men and women of age ≥18 years. 
•  NSCLC stage IIIb/IV, histologically or cytologically documented. 
• 
Life-expectancy of at least 4 months. 
•  CTX naïve. 
• 
ECOG performance status ≤2. 
•  ANC ≥1.5 × 109/L. 
• 
Platelet count ≥100 × 109/L. 
•  Adequate hepatic function, i.e. ALT and AST <2.5 × ULN, ALP <5 × ULN, bilirubin <ULN. 
•  Adequate renal function, i.e. creatinine <1.5 × ULN. 
•  Adequate hepatic, cardiac, bone marrow and renal function for the chosen CTX regimen. 
Exclusion criteria 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 57/108 
 
  
  
• 
Previous exposure to filgrastim, pegfilgrastim or lenograstim or other G-CSFs in clinical 
development less than 6 months before randomisation. 
•  Known hypersensitivity to filgrastim, pegfilgrastim, lenograstim, cisplatin or etoposide. 
• 
• 
Planned for non-myelosuppressive CTX. 
Individual high risk for FN with regard to the cisplatin/etoposide CTX according to the 
assessment of the investigator. Risk factors were age >65 years, low performance status, 
poor nutritional status and liver, renal or cardiovascular disease. 
•  Meeting any contraindication for the chosen CTX regimen. 
• 
• 
Treatment with systemically active antibiotics within 72 hours before CTX. 
To be treated with combined chemo-/radiotherapy during the foreseen participation in this 
study. 
•  Chronic use of oral corticosteroids (except low-dose chronic treatment with ≤20 mg/day 
prednisolone or equivalent dose for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). 
• 
• 
• 
Prior radiation therapy or tumour surgery within 4 weeks before randomisation. 
Prior bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. 
Pregnant or nursing women and women of child-bearing potential who did not agree to use 
a highly effective method of birth control.  
Treatments 
The patients were to undergo a maximum of 4 CTX cycles (21 days per cycle), each cycle 
beginning with CTX of cisplatin 80 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 and etoposide 120 mg/m2 i.v. daily on 
days 1 to 3. On day 4 in each cycle (i.e. 1 day after the respective last CTX infusion day), 
patients received a single subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of Lonquex or placebo. Administration of 
the study drug was to take place after blood sampling for determination of the ANC and body 
temperature. 
The following concomitant treatments were not permitted during the treatment phase of the 
study: Radiotherapy affecting bone marrow, other study drugs, other G-CSFs (except 
prophylactic open treatment Lonquex provided by the sponsor), transfusions of granulocytes 
(allowed only in case of manifest life-threatening infections), other cytotoxic treatment, lithium, 
prophylaxis with systemically active antibiotics (i.e. intravenous, intramuscular or oral). 
If clinically necessary, systemically active antibiotics were allowed for increased body 
temperature above 38.5°C orally associated with neutropenia (i.e. ANC value <0.5 × 109/L) as 
well as for a proven (microbiologically documented infection or clinically or radiologically 
documented infection) and medically relevant infection. 
Antipyretics were only to be started if two consecutive measurements at least 1 h apart of oral 
body temperature >38.5°C had been documented, or after treatment with systemic antibiotics 
had been started. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 58/108 
 
  
  
The use of oral or i.v. corticosteroids was to be avoided because steroids might influence ANC 
values. However, if deemed absolutely necessary for the treatment of the patient (e.g. to 
prevent or immediately treat a hypersensitivity reaction to a chemotherapeutic drug), 
corticosteroids were allowed but had to be documented in the CRF. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was demonstration of superiority of Lonquex vs placebo when 
administered for up to a maximum of four cycles in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
receiving cisplatin/etoposide CTX.  
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
• 
• 
Evaluation of efficacy, safety and tolerability of Lonquex compared to placebo in patients 
with non-small cell lung cancer receiving cisplatin/etoposide CTX, based on the secondary 
efficacy and safety endpoints. 
Evaluation of PK properties of Lonquex. 
Outcomes/endpoint 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN) in the first cycle. FN 
was defined to have occurred if at least one of the following conditions held true during a CTX 
cycle: 
  Oral body temperature >38.5°C for at least 1 h (2 consecutive measurements on the same 
day, at least 60 minutes apart) and an observed severe neutropenia (i.e. ANC value <0.5 × 
109/L) on the day before, on the same day or on the day after the elevated temperature 
readings. 
  Documentation of neutropenic sepsis, i.e. a sepsis in combination with an ANC value <0.5 × 
109/L. 
  Documentation of serious or life-threatening neutropenic infection, i.e. a life threatening 
infection in combination with an ANC value <0.5 × 109/L. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
 
Incidence of FN in cycles 2, 3, and 4 and across all cycles. 
The following secondary efficacy endpoints were evaluated in cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4: 
  Duration of severe neutropenia (DSN). Severe neutropenia was defined as grade 4 
neutropenia with an ANC <0.5 x 109/L. 
 
Incidence of severe neutropenia, defined as grade 4 (ANC <0.5 x 109/L). The incidence of 
severe neutropenia is equivalent to the frequency of ANC nadir <0.5 x 109/L. 
  Duration of very severe neutropenia (DVSN) (ANC <0.1 x 109/L), measured in days. 
 
Incidence of very severe neutropenia (ANC <0.1 x 109/L). The incidence of very severe 
neutropenia is the same as the frequency of ANC nadir <0.1 x 109/L. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 59/108 
 
  
  
  Depth of ANC nadir. The patient’s lowest ANC in each cycle was to be determined. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to ANC nadir, defined as the time in days from CTX administration until the occurrence 
of the ANC nadir. 
Time to ANC recovery, defined as the time in days from CTX administration until the patient’s 
ANC increased to ≥2.0 x 109/L after the expected nadir. 
Time to ANC recovery from ANC nadir, defined as difference in days between the day of the 
occurrence of ANC nadir to the first day after ANC nadir with an ANC value ≥1.5 x 109/L. 
Time in days in hospital and time in the Intensive Care Unit due to FN or connected 
infections. 
Incidence of treatment with i.v. antibiotics due to FN or connected infections, defined as the 
number of patients receiving i.v. antibiotics per cycle and across all cycles. 
Percentage of actually delivered vs. scheduled cumulative CTX dose (for both cisplatin and 
etoposide) per patient. 
Proportion of patients with CTX doses reduced, omitted, or delayed 
  Number of days of delay of CTX 
  Overall quality of life, as assessed using the European Organisation for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 (version 3) and the EORTC QLQ-LC13. 
 
Incidence of patients requiring prophylactic open treatment. 
Sample size 
An incidence rate of FN under treatment with placebo in the range from 7% to 10% was 
assumed. The incidence under treatment with Lonquex was expected to be at most 1%. The 
actual incidence rate for placebo was expected to be closer to 10% than to 7%. Using the 
Fisher’s exact test it was calculated that the availability of 375 patients would give a test power 
of at least 90% to detect the assumed placebo excess risk (in case of a sampling rate of 2:1 
(Lonquex: placebo)).  
The actual analysis was performed with a logistic regression analysis with treatment, region, sex, 
body weight class and baseline ANC as explanatory variables. This analysis was expected to be 
more powerful than the Fisher’s exact test used to assess the necessary sample size. Therefore, 
the actually planned statistical methodology ensured that the power of the statistical analysis 
would be about 95% if the placebo excess risk for FN was in the range of 6% to 9% and the 
actual incidence rate for Lonquex was at most 1%. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation was performed at a ratio of 2:1, Lonquex: placebo. The randomisation was done 
in blocks with a block size of two, stratified by country.  
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 60/108 
 
  
  
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double-blind. 
Statistical methods 
Efficacy data were analysed for the intention-to-treat (ITT) and the according-to-protocol (ATP) 
populations. The safety endpoints were analysed for the safety population (SP). 
For FN, a logistic regression analysis was to be fitted including randomised treatment, region 
(Rest of Europe, Russia, Ukraine, sex and body weight class (≤60, >60 to ≤75 and >75 [kg]) as 
fixed factors and with the last ANC value measured prior to CTX treatment (baseline ANC) as 
covariate. A sensitivity analysis for the primary model which includes ‘Country’ instead of 
‘Region’ was also evaluated. 
No adjustment for type I error was applied to the secondary efficacy endpoints, so all secondary 
analyses should be interpreted in an exploratory manner. Subgroup analyses were performed, 
stratified by region, by centre, by sex, and by body weight. 
An interim analysis was not planned or performed in this study. 
As the study was intended to confirm the superiority of Lonquex over placebo, the statistical 
analysis has been performed with the data from the ITT population and therefore no dropouts 
had to be taken into account in estimating the sample size. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 61/108 
 
  
  
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
Assessed for 
Eligibility 
(n=427)  
Randomised (n=376) 
Excluded (n=51) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
(n=14) 
Not meeting exclusion criteria 
(n=11) 
Withdrawal of consent (n=18) 
Allocated to Placebo (n=125) 
Received allocated placebo (n=125) 
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
Premature study discontinuation 
(n=44) 
Death (n=7) 
Consent withdrawn (n=6) 
Adverse event (n=14) 
Progression of underlying disease 
(n=11) 
Protocol violation (n=2) 
Other (n=4) 
Analysed ITT and SP (n=125) 
CD34+ sub-study (n=15) 
Excluded from analysis in ATP 
population (n=7) 
Baseline ANC too low (n=1) 
Prohibited rescue medication (n=3) 
Too few ANC measurements 
available in cycle 1 (n=1) 
Violation of randomised treatment 
in cycle 1 (n=1) 
Blind broken (n=1) 
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Allocated to Lonquex  (n=250) 
Received allocated Lonquex (n=248) 
(two patients died before randomised 
study medication could be administered) 
Premature study discontinuation (n=81) 
Death (n=24) 
Consent withdrawn (n=11) 
Adverse event (n=13) 
Progression of underlying disease 
(n=22) 
Protocol violation (n=1) 
Other (n=10) 
Analysed ITT (n=250) 
SP (n=248, two patient did not receive 
study medication)  
CD34+ sub-study (n=28) 
Excluded from analysis in ATP 
population (n=17);  
Baseline ANC too low (n=1) 
Baseline ANC too low in cycle 1 (n=1) 
Cycle 1 etoposide dose too low (n=2) 
Important variable values missing (n=2) 
No treatment with randomised study 
medication in cycle 1 (n=3) 
Prohibited rescue medication (n=2) 
Too few ANC measurements available in 
cycle 1 (n=16) 
Blind broken (n=1) 
Treatment with systemic antibiotics 
before CTX cycle 1 (n=1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 62/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The first patient was enrolled on 10 May 2010 and the last patient on 30 November 2010. The 
last patient left the study on 05 April 2011; this was the last study visit of the main study 
(day 85) of a randomised patient not including the 30-day observation period for AEs. 
Conduct of the study 
The original final protocol (issued on 1 October 2009) was amended by 2 global amendments. At 
the dates of the global amendments no patients had been screened. 
Global amendment 1 (dated 26 October 2009): in the wording of the primary endpoint FN, “for 
more than” was replaced by “for at least” i.e. FN defined as body temperature of >38.5ºC for at 
least one hour. In addition, the time frame for acceptance of the screening safety laboratory was 
prolonged from 4 to 5 days before baseline for logistic reasons. Also, the wording “rescue 
medication” was replaced by “prophylactic open treatment”.  
Global amendment 2 (dated 26 November 2009): For logistical reasons, it was decided that the 
daily ANC values would be analysed in local or regional laboratories rather than in the central 
laboratory.  
Protocol violations were seen with regard to prophylactic open-labelled treatment with 6 mg 
XM22. Ten patients randomised and treated with double-blind study medication (3 placebo, 7 
XM22) were switched to prophylactic open-labelled treatment with 6 mg XM22 after cycle 1. 
According to the protocol, patients who experienced FN were to be switched to prophylactic 
open-labelled treatment with 6 mg Lonquex in the subsequent cycles, i.e. in cycles 2, 3, or 4. 
However, the investigators did not adhere strictly to the protocol. Not all patients who 
experienced FN were switched to open-labelled Lonquex. In addition, 2 of the 7 patients switched 
from double-blind Lonquex to open-labelled Lonquexdid not experience FN. The use of open-
labelled Lonquex without suffering from FN was regarded as a minor protocol violation. 
Baseline data 
Baseline patient demographic characteristics and the reasons for administration of chemotherapy 
are summarised in the following Table 28. Baseline disease characteristics are presented in 
Table 29. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 63/108 
 
  
  
Table 28: Demographic characteristics and reason for CTX; XM22-04, ITT population 
Table 29: Disease characteristics; XM22-04, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 64/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Numbers analysed 
427 patients were enrolled in the study and screened at 72 centres in 8 European countries 
(Belarus 37, Bosnia-Herzegovina 3, Bulgaria 16, Poland 7, Romania 27, Russia 183, Serbia 21, 
Ukraine 133). Three data sets were analysed in this study: the ITT population, the ATP 
population, and the SP population. Moreover, a sub-study population of 43 patients was analysed 
for the CD34+ sub-study. The ITT comprised 125 patients in placebo group and 250 in the 
Lonquex group. The SP for the placebo arm was identical to the ITT, for the Lonquex arm two 
patients did not receive any study therapy and were therefore excluded from the SP (248 
patients in the SP of Lonquex). 7 patients of the placebo arm and 17 patients of the Lonquex arm 
had major protocol violations and were excluded from the ATP population. Therefore the ATP 
population comprised 118 patients in the placebo and 233 in the Lonquex group.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Analyses of primary efficacy endpoint 
Results are summarised in the following table 30. 
Table 30: Febrile neutropenia in cycle 1; XM22-04, ITT population 
Analyses of the secondary efficacy endpoints 
Results are summarised in the following Tables 31 to 39 and Figures 7 and 8. 
Table 31: Febrile neutropenia in cycles 2, 3 and 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 65/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 32: Descriptive statistics for DSN in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
Figure 7: Time course of measured median ANC in cycle 1; XM22-04, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 66/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8: Time course of measured median ANC in cycle 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
Table 33: Incidence of severe neutropenia per cycle and across cycles; XM22-04, ITT 
population 
Table 34: Incidence of very severe neutropenia in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4; XM22-04, ITT 
population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 67/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 35: Descriptive statistics for DVSN in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4; XM22-04, ITT 
population 
Table 36: Depth of ANC nadir (109/L) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 68/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 37: Time to ANC nadir (days) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
Table 38: Time to ANC recovery (days) in cycles 1 to 4; XM22-04, ITT population 
In the ITT population, 5 patients in the placebo group (4 in cycle 1, 1 in cycle 3) and 3 patients 
in the Lonquex group (1 in each of cycles 1, 3 and 4) were hospitalised due to FN or connected 
infection. In cycle 1, the higher incidence of hospitalisation due to FN in the placebo group 
compared to the Lonquex group (3.2 vs. 0.4%) had p<0.05. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 69/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 39: Number (%) of patients with reduced, omitted or delayed doses of CTX; 
XM22-04, ITT population 
QoL was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) and the lung cancer-specific module 
EORTC QLQ-LC13, within 24 hours before start of CTX administration in cycle 1 and at the end of 
study visit. The completion rate of both QoL questionnaires was high and comparable in both 
treatment groups.For the EORTC QLQ-C30, a consistent deterioration of mean scores was 
observed over the course of the study whereas median changes were 0 for most variables. 
However, for each QLQ-C30 scale the change over the course of the study was comparable in 
both treatment groups with no cases of p<0.05. Finally, the QoL results in the ATP population 
were consistent with those in the ATP population. 
CD34+ cell count was determined using flow cytometry at a central laboratory. A total of 42 
patients participated in the CD34+ sub-study: 15 patients in the Placebo group, 27 in Lonquex 
group. In the first CTX cycle, CD34+ AUC and Cmax showed a 3 fold-higher cell count for Lonquex 
compared to placebo, in terms of median and geometric mean. Tmax were comparable.  
Ancillary analyses 
At CHMP request, the applicant provided data on disease progression and mortality in study 
XM22-04. Data on censoring and survival are presented in Tables 40-41 and Figure 9, 
respectively. 
Table 40: Patients lost to follow-up; XM022-04, cumulative 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 70/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 41: Last available patient status by randomised treatment; study XM22-04, 
ITT population 
Status at end of follow-up 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
Lonquex 6 mg 
(N=250) 
% 
n 
% 
Alive 
Patient lost to follow-up 
Death 
Other 
Note: This table includes 2 patients who were randomised to Lonquex but died before receiving any study medication  
24.8 
16.8 
44.8 
13.6 
29.6 
18.8 
44.4 
7.2 
74 
47 
111 
18 
31 
21 
56 
17 
Figure 9: Kaplan-Meier curve of Overall Survival; XM022-04, cumulative 
For the primary endpoint incidence of FN, ITT population was stratified by region, body weight 
and sex. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 71/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 42: FN in cycle 1 stratified by region, body weight and sex; XM22-04, ITT population 
The results in the ATP population were consistent with those in the ITT population. 
For the secondary endpoints DSN (cycles 1,2, 3 and 4), incidence of severe neutropenia, 
incidence of very severe neutropenia, duration of very severe neutropenia, depth of ANC nadir 
and time to ANC recovery (cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4), the efficacy of Lonquex was consistently better 
compared to placebo for the region, body weight, and sex subgroups. The incidence of very 
severe neutropenia in each cycle was lower for Lonquex compared to placebo in Russia and 
Ukraine. However in the Rest of Europe, the incidence of very severe neutropenia was higher for 
Lonquex compared to placebo in cycles 1, 2 and 3.   
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical 
efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 43: Summary of Efficacy for trials XM22-03 and XM22-04 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III study comparing Lonquex versus Neulasta in 
patients with high-risk stage II, III, or IV breast cancer needing CTX 
Study identifier 
XM22-03 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, controlled study 
4 cycles of 3 weeks 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Non-inferiority versus Neulasta 
High risk stage II, III or IV 
breast cancer patients 
High risk stage II, III or IV 
breast cancer patients 
Doxorubicin/docetaxel + Neulasta, one dose 
Neulasta each CTX cycle for a maximum of 4 
cycles, 101 patients 
Doxorubicin/docetaxel + Lonquex, one dose 
Lonquex each CTX cycle for a maximum of 4 
cycles, 101 patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 72/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
DSN 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoints 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
9 December 2010 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Duration of severe neutropenia in cycle 1 of 
CTX  
Incidence of FN in cycles 1, 2,3 and 4 
DSN in cycles 2, 3 and 4 
Incidence of sever neutropenia 
Duration and incidence of very severe 
neutropenia 
Depth of ANC nadir 
Time of ANC nadir 
Time to ANC recovery 
Time to ANCE recovery from ANC nadir 
Time in hospital 
Incidence of treatment with antibiotics 
Percentage of delivered versus scheduled 
cumulative CTX dose 
Number of days of delay of CTX 
Overall QoL 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
ATP 
Treatment group 
Neulasta 
Number of 
subjects 
Mean DSN (days) 
cycle 1 
Median 
Range 
Mean DSN (days) 
cycle 4 
Median 
Range 
Incidence of 
severe 
neutropenia 
cycle 1 
Mean depth of 
ANC nadir 
(109/L) 
cycle 1 
Median 
Range 
Primary endpoint 
(DSN, cycle 1) 
Secondary 
endpoint 
(DSN, cycle 4) 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Incidence of very 
94 
0.8±0.9 
1.0 
0.0 to 4.0 
0.2±0.5 
0.0 
0.0 to 3.0 
9.6% 
Lonquex 
94 
0.7±0.9 
0.0 
0.0 to 4.0 
0.2±0.6 
0.0 
0.0 to 3.0 
3.2% 
1.0±1.3 
1.2±1.3 
0.4 
0.0 to 5.2 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression 
95% CI  
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio 
95% CI 
0.6 
0.0 to 5.5 
Lonquex vs Neulasta 
LS mean -0.218 
-0.498 to 0.062 
0.1260 
Lonquex vs Neulasta  
LS mean 0.008 
-0.147 to 0.163 
0.922 
Lonquex vs Neulasta  
0.313  
0.067-1.462 
Page 73/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
severe 
neutropenia  
Secondary 
endpoint 
Depth of ANC nadir 
(106/L) 
Cycle 1 
P-value 
0.1388 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression 
95% CI 
P-value 
Lonquex vs Neulasta 
LS mean 0.189 
-0.137 to 0.515 
0.2539 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III study comparing Lonquex versus placebo in 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving i.v. cisplatin/etoposide chemotherapy 
Study identifier 
XM22-04 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Multicentre, randomised, double-blind, controlled study 
4 cycles of three weeks 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Superiority to placebo 
Stage IIIb/IV NSCLC 
patients 
Stage IIIb/IV NSCLC 
patients 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoints 
FN in cycle 
1 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
5 April 2010 
ITT 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
Number of 
subjects 
Primary endpoint 
Incidence of FN in 
cycle 1 
Mean DSN (days) 
cycle 1 
Median 
Range 
Mean DSN (days) 
cycle 4 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Cisplatin/etoposide + placebo, one dose 
placebo each CTX cycle for a maximum of 4 
cycles, 125 patients 
Cisplatin/etoposide + Lonquex, one dose 
Lonquex each CTX cycle for a maximum of 4 
cycles, 248 patients 
Incidence of FN in cycle 1 of CTX  
DSN in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4 
Incidence of sever neutropenia 
Duration and incidence of very severe 
neutropenia 
Depth of ANC nadir 
Time of ANC nadir 
Time to ANC recovery 
Time to ANCE recovery from ANC nadir 
Time in hospital 
Incidence of treatment with antibiotics 
Percentage of delivered vs scheduled 
cumulative CTX dos 
Number of days of delay of CTX 
Overall QoL 
Placebo 
125 
5.6% 
2.3±2.5 
2.0 
0.0 to 11.0 
2.3±2.5 
Lonquex 
248 
2.4% 
0.6±1.1 
0.0 
0.0 to 5.0 
0.5±1.1 
Page 74/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Median 
Range 
Mean depth of 
ANC nadir (109/L) 
cycle 1 
Median 
Range 
Primary endpoint 
Incidence of FN in 
cycle 1 
Secondary 
endpoint 
DSN (days) 
cycle 1 
Secondary 
endpoint 
DSN (days) 
cycle 4 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Mean depth of ANC 
nadir (109/L) 
cycle 1 
1.0 
0.0 to 11.0 
0.67±0.85 
0.0 
0.0 to 0.8 
1.60±1.64 
0.32 
0.00 to 4.00 
Comparison groups 
Odds ratio  
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression  
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Poisson regression 
95% CI 
P-value 
0.92 
0.00 to 8.20 
Lonquex vs placebo 
0.390 
0.121-1.260 
0.1151 
Lonquex vs placebo 
LS mean -1.661 
-2.089 to -1.232 
<0.0001 
Lonquex vs placebo 
LS mean -1.844 
-2.281 to -1.407 
<0.001 
Lonquex vs placebo 
LS mean 0.919 
0.656 to 1.183 
<0.001 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
See discussion (data not shown). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Clinical studies in special populations were not submitted. 
Supportive studies 
No supportive clinical studies were submitted. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The Applicant submitted 2 pivotal studies of Lonquex in patients with breast cancer and lung 
cancer receiving myelotoxic chemotherapy. A phase II study of Lonquex in breast cancer patients 
was also submitted. The clinical studies in patients were supported by 3 phase I clinical 
pharmacology studies in healthy subjects. 
The phase II and III studies were conducted in line with scientific advice received from the EMA 
(September 2009) and the guideline on clinical trials with haematopoietic growth factors for the 
prophylaxis of infection following myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 75/108 
 
  
  
 
 
(EMEA/CPMP/555/95 Rev. 1). In general, the studies were well designed and conducted. It was 
noted that all patients enrolled were from countries outside the EU; primarily Russia and Eastern 
European countries. 
In the phase III studies, Lonquex was used at a fixed dose of 6 mg. This dosage was based on 
the XM22-02-INT dose finding study in breast cancer patients. Results of this study indicated 
that the efficacy of both the 4.5 mg and the 6 mg dose might be comparable to 6 mg Neulasta. 
No clear safety difference is seen between the 4.5 and 6 mg Lonquex dose. The applicant has 
chosen to use the 6 mg dose in the phase III trials. 
The XM22-03 study included patients with high risk stage II, III and IV breast cancer planned to 
be treated with maximum 4 cycles of 60 mg/m2 doxorubicin and 75mg/m2 docetaxel. The 
combination of doxorubicin and docetaxel is an accepted treatment regimen for this patient 
population. As the expected FN incidence in a breast cancer population treated with this 
combination of chemotherapeutic agents is above 20%, supportive treatment with G-CSF is 
indicated. 
Study XM22-04 was conducted in a stage IIIb and IV NSCLC patient population. Patients were 
treated with etoposide/cisplatin, which is not the standard treatment regimen for this patient 
population in Western Europe. In Western Europe, the preferred combination is cisplatin + third 
generation cytostatic drug (i.e. paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine, vinorelbine and irinotecan) or 
cisplatin + premetrexed for patients with adenocarcinoma. The expected incidence of FN is 
however much lower for these preferred treatments than for the etoposide/cisplatin combination 
used in this trial. According to the Applicant, the expected incidence of FN with this CTX 
combination was 8-18% and therefore a placebo-controlled trial was considered ethically justified 
and in accordance with the EMEA/CPMP/555/95 Rev 1 guideline. 
In the XM22-04 study, patients with individual high risk for FN (i.e. >65 years, low performance 
status, poor nutritional status and liver, renal or cardiovascular disease) were excluded. Due to 
the inclusion and exclusion criteria of the XM22-03 and the XM22-04 study, no efficacy and 
safety data was obtained for patients with impaired renal and hepatic function. This was reflected 
in sections 4.2 and 5.2 of the SmPC. A slightly higher percentage of patients in the Lonquex 
group had squamous cell carcinoma compared to the placebo group (67.2% Lonquex vs. 57.6% 
placebo). 
With regard to disease progression and survival, there was no systematic or objective 
assessment of tumour progression during the Lonquex clinical studies and insufficient detail is 
provided within the patient narratives. This is not optimal and it is agreed that the progression 
data have significant limitations. However, the design of the clinical studies had been agreed with 
the CHMP and it was in line with current guidelines. Long term tumour progression and mortality 
data, i.e. tumour progression beyond the treatment phase was derived from plasma sample 
collection visits for immunological analysis only. Data on overall survival are discussed in the 
Clinical safety section. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In the dose-response XM22-02-INT study, there was an apparent dose-dependent trend among 
the 3 Lonquex dose groups with shorter durations at the higher doses. The DSN in the 6 mg 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 76/108 
 
  
  
Lonquex group was slightly shorter (i.e. better) than in the Neulasta comparator group. In 
addition, 62% of the patients in the 6 mg Lonquex group did not experience severe neutropenia. 
In the other treatment groups the proportions of patients who did not experience severe 
neutropenia were considerably lower: in the 6 mg Neulasta group only 46.3%, in the 3 mg 
Lonquex group only 43.4%, and in the 4.5 mg Lonquex group only 49.0%. 
Although slight differences exist among some of the subgroups (reason for CTX and country 
group), these differences were not statistically significant, and the study was not powered to 
detect such differences with statistical significance. 
Results for the ATP (per protocol) population were similar to those for the ITT population (data 
not shown). 
In the XM22-03 study, the primary endpoint (DSN in cycle 1 of CTX) was achieved and non-
inferiority of Lonquex vs Neulasta for DSN and febrile neutropenia in cycle 1 was clearly 
demonstrated, as Poisson regression analysis (Lonquex - Neulasta) yielded a 95% CI of -0.498 
to 0.062 with p=0.1260 (the upper limit of the 2-sided 95% CI is less than 1). The mean DSN in 
cycle 1 of CTX for patients treated with Neulasta was 0.8±0.9 days and for patients treated with 
Lonquex 0.7±0.9 days. The DSN observed in both treatment groups was, as expected, 
considerably shorter than the value of 3.8 days reported for patients with similar disease 
characteristics and CTX who were not treated with G-CSF (Del Giglio et al, 2008). In addition, 
48.9% of Neulasta-treated patients and 56.4% of Lonquex-treated patients did not experience 
severe neutropenia in cycle 1. 
Results for the ITT population were consistent with those for the ATP population. Results of the 
analysis without imputation of missing ANC values were consistent with the main efficacy 
analysis. For the ATP analysis, no patients with imputed DSN in cycle 1 were found.  
There were small non-significant differences consistently seen between Lonquex and Neulasta for 
the secondary endpoints, primarily in favour of the Lonquex arm, suggesting that Lonquex may 
be associated with improved efficacy outcomes compared to Neulasta. Slight numerical 
differences in treatment effects exist within some of the subgroups analyses; however, for the 
overall DSN difference (Lonquex vs. Neulasta) no statistical difference was seen (ATP 95% CI: -
0.600 to 0.038). All p-values reported for the comparison of treatment groups concerning the 
secondary efficacy endpoints are raw and unadjusted p-values of explorative tests on differences 
between treatments. 
In the XM22-04 study, where Lonquex was compared to placebo, whilst statistically significant 
differences between study arms in favour of Lonquex in cycle 1 were generally seen, there was 
no significant difference between the two arms for the primary endpoint of incidence/ rate of 
febrile neutropenia. Numerically, as expected, rates were lower in the Lonquex arm (2.4% vs. 
5.6% [6 vs. 7 patients; 2:1 randomisation] p=0.1151). The Applicant attributes the lack of 
positive primary endpoint results in this study to the chemotherapy regimen used (risk of 
neutropenia<20%) and exclusion of high risk patients from the study (although some patients 
above the age of 65 years and patients with cardiac disorders at baseline were enrolled). This 
may explain the lower than expected number of cases of FN in the placebo arm (expected to be 
7-10%). The Applicant further explained that whilst a statistically significant difference was not 
seen for the FN endpoint, the reported incidence in the Lonquex arm was still less than half that 
reported for the placebo arm, which is clinically significant (2.4% vs. 5.6%). Further, a sub-
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 77/108 
 
  
  
analysis of patients from the study with individual higher risk for FN due to an age >65 years 
showed that the incidence of FN in such individuals in cycle 1 was 13.3% (4 out of 30) in the 
placebo group and 0% in the Lonquex group. This difference was statistically significant 
(p=0.0064).  
Finally, for most other secondary and exploratory efficacy endpoints in the study, across cycles, 
significantly better results were seen for Lonquex administered patients than for patients 
receiving placebo. It can be accepted therefore that despite study XM22-04 not meeting its 
primary endpoint, Lonquex was shown to have clinically significant advantages over placebo. It 
should be noted that use of Lonquex in the study does not reflect the proposed use in clinical 
practice. 
The treatment effects for the secondary endpoints were not always consistent across country and 
centre subgroup analyses due to the limited patient numbers in many countries and centres.  
The pooled analysis of the phase II and III active-controlled breast cancer studies (XM22-02-INT 
and XM22-03 studies) provided similar results as the separate analyses (data not shown). 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
On the whole, positive results in favour of Lonquex were seen for the majority of endpoints in 
the phase II and III studies. Efficacy of Lonquex in reducing rates of febrile neutropenia in 
patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy can be considered demonstrated. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A total of 783 patients were randomised and treated with study medication in the 3 Phase II and 
III studies: 503 with Lonquex, 155 with Neulasta, and 125 with placebo. 3 patients randomised 
to placebo in study XM22-04 were switched to prophylactic open-labelled treatment with 6 mg 
Lonquex. Thus, a total of 506 randomised patients received at least one dose of Lonquex in the 
Phase II and III studies. In addition a total of 109 healthy subjects received study medication as 
a weight-based or fixed-dose injection in the 3 Phase I studies. 76 of the 109 subjects received 
Lonquex and 33 received Neulasta. 
Table 44: Overall exposure (number of patients) – phase II and III studies 
Study No. 
XM22-02-INT 
XM22-03 
XM22-04 
Total 
Lonquex 
3 mg 
Lonquex 
4.5 mg 
Lonquex 
6 mg 
Lonquex 
All 
Neulasta 
6 mg 
Placebo 
53 
– 
– 
53 
51 
– 
– 
51 
50 
101 
248 
(251) 
399 
(402) 
154 
101 
248 
(251) 
503 
(506) 
54 
101 
– 
155 
– 
– 
125 
125 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 78/108 
 
  
  
 
Table 45: Exposure to Lonquex – phase II and III studies 
Randomised Lonquex 
treatment 
Randomised and open-labelled 
Lonquex treatment 
Number of 
patients 
Number of 
doses 
Number of 
patients 
Number of 
doses 
35 
28 
25 
415 
503 
53 
51 
399 
503 
35 
56 
75 
1660 
1826 
211 
200 
1415 
1826 
29 
30 
28 
419 
506 
53 
51 
402 
506 
29 
60 
84 
1676 
1849 
211 
200 
1438 
1849 
Number of doses 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Total 
Dosage level of Lonquex 
3 mg 
4.5 mg 
6 mg 
Total 
Adverse events 
An overview of adverse events in patients having received the clinically recommended dose of 
6 mg Lonquex across all efficacy and safety studies is presented in the following Table 46. 
Table 46: Frequencies of TEAE categories − pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses: all cancer 
patients (SP) 
Category of TEAE 
Any TEAE 
Related TEAE=TEADR 
Severe TEAE 
Severe TEADR 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
Pooled 
(N=399) 
n 
143 
46 
29 
1 
% 
n 
% 
n 
94.7 
221 
89.1 
364 
30.5 
35 
14.1 
81 
19.2 
104 
41.9 
133 
0.7 
12 
4.8 
13 
% 
91.2 
20.3 
33.3 
3.3 
Note:  Multiple  mentions  per  patient  are  possible.  TEAEs  with  onset  after  start  of  prophylactic  open-labelled  6 mg 
Lonquex  treatment  in  study  XM22-04  are  not  included.  TEAE:  treatment-emergent  adverse  event,  TEADR:  treatment-
emergent adverse drug reaction 
The most frequent adverse events in all patients having received 6 mg Lonquex are presented in 
the following Table 47. Most frequent adverse events in the Lonquex treatment group vs the 
placebo treatment group in study XM22-04 are presented in Table 48. 
Table 47: Most frequent PTs for TEAEs (incidence of ≥1% of patients in the pooled 
group) − pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses; all cancer patients, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Alopecia 
Nausea 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
n 
120 
83 
% 
79.5 
55.0 
n 
101 
59 
% 
40.7 
23.8 
Pooled 
(N=399) 
n 
221 
142 
% 
55.4 
35.6 
Page 79/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Asthenia 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite 
Thrombocytopenia 
Diarrhoea 
Bone pain 
Fatigue 
Leukopenia 
Headache 
Hypokalaemia 
Chest pain 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Disease progression 
Dizziness 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pyrexia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Weight decreased 
Erythema 
Dyspnoea 
Hypophosphataemia 
Stomatitis 
Abdominal pain upper 
Back pain 
Tachycardia 
Cough 
Haemoptysis 
Hypertension 
Hyperkalaemia 
Pain 
Abdominal pain 
Blood phosphorus decreased 
Epistaxis 
Hyperthermia 
Hypotension 
Insomnia 
Bronchitis 
Chills 
Constipation 
Dysgeusia 
Oedema peripheral 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Pneumonia 
Somnolence 
30 
10 
42 
14 
16 
6 
23 
24 
13 
12 
13 
0 
5 
16 
7 
0 
7 
0 
4 
4 
3 
13 
1 
0 
11 
5 
3 
4 
2 
0 
3 
1 
1 
2 
0 
4 
2 
1 
3 
3 
3 
2 
4 
3 
4 
0 
2 
19.9 
6.6 
27.8 
9.3 
10.6 
4.0 
15.2 
15.9 
8.6 
7.9 
8.6 
– 
3.3 
10.6 
4.6 
– 
4.6 
– 
2.6 
2.6 
2.0 
8.6 
0.7 
– 
7.3 
3.3 
2.0 
2.6 
1.3 
– 
2.0 
0.7 
0.7 
1.3 
– 
2.6 
1.3 
0.7 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
1.3 
2.6 
2.0 
2.6 
– 
1.3 
51 
63 
28 
28 
23 
32 
7 
5 
16 
16 
9 
20 
14 
1 
9 
16 
9 
16 
12 
11 
12 
0 
11 
12 
1 
5 
6 
5 
5 
7 
4 
5 
5 
3 
5 
1 
3 
4 
2 
1 
1 
2 
0 
1 
0 
4 
2 
20.6 
25.4 
11.3 
11.3 
9.3 
12.9 
2.8 
2.0 
6.5 
6.5 
3.6 
8.1 
5.6 
0.4 
3.6 
6.5 
3.6 
6.5 
4.8 
4.4 
4.8 
– 
4.4 
4.8 
0.4 
2.0 
2.4 
2.0 
2.0 
2.8 
1.6 
2.0 
2.0 
1.2 
2.0 
0.4 
1.2 
1.6 
0.8 
0.4 
0.4 
0.8 
– 
0.4 
– 
1.6 
0.8 
81 
73 
70 
42 
39 
38 
30 
29 
29 
28 
22 
20 
19 
17 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
15 
15 
13 
12 
12 
12 
10 
9 
9 
7 
7 
7 
6 
6 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
20.3 
18.3 
17.5 
10.5 
9.8 
9.5 
7.5 
7.3 
7.3 
7.0 
5.5 
5.0 
4.8 
4.3 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
3.8 
3.8 
3.3 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
2.5 
2.3 
2.3 
1.8 
1.8 
1.8 
1.5 
1.5 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
1.3 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
Note:  This  table  is  sorted  by  descending  frequency  in  the  pooled  group.  Multiple  mentions  per  patient  are 
possible.  TEAEs  with  onset  after  start  of  prophylactic  open-labelled  6 mg  Lonquex  treatment  in  study 
XM22-04 are not included. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 80/108 
 
  
  
Table 48: Most frequent PTs for TEAEs (incidence of ≥2% of patients in either 
treatment group); study XM22-04, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
Lonquex 6 mg 
(N=248) 
% 
n 
% 
Alopecia 
Anaemia 
Nausea 
Neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Asthenia 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite 
Hypokalaemia 
Leukopenia 
Fatigue 
Disease progression 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Chest pain 
Pyrexia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Weight decreased 
Febrile neutropenia 
Dyspnoea 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Arthralgia 
Haemoptysis 
Diarrhoea 
Back pain 
Cough 
Tachycardia 
Abdominal pain upper 
Blood phosphorus decreased 
Bone pain 
Hyperkalaemia 
Pain 
Pneumonia 
Atrial fibrillation 
Lung neoplasm malignant 
Pain in extremity 
Insomnia 
Wheezing 
Note: 
TEAEs with onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled Lonquex treatment are not included. 
33.6 
24.0 
21.6 
35.2 
8.0 
18.4 
12.0 
9.6 
2.4 
11.2 
4.8 
4.0 
3.2 
6.4 
4.8 
1.6 
1.6 
8.0 
7.2 
3.2 
3.2 
1.6 
4.0 
3.2 
1.6 
2.4 
1.6 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
3.2 
4.0 
2.4 
2.4 
2.4 
2.4 
This table is sorted by descending frequency in the Lonquex group. Multiple mentions per patient are possible. 
40.7 
25.4 
23.8 
20.6 
12.9 
11.3 
11.3 
9.3 
8.1 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
6.5 
5.6 
4.8 
4.8 
4.8 
4.4 
4.4 
3.6 
3.6 
3.6 
2.8 
2.8 
2.4 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
1.6 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
0.8 
0.8 
101 
63 
59 
51 
32 
28 
28 
23 
20 
16 
16 
16 
16 
14 
12 
12 
12 
11 
11 
9 
9 
9 
7 
7 
6 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
42 
30 
27 
44 
10 
23 
15 
12 
3 
14 
6 
5 
4 
8 
6 
2 
2 
10 
9 
4 
4 
2 
5 
4 
2 
3 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
4 
5 
3 
3 
3 
3 
The most frequent severe (grade ≥3) adverse events in the 6 mg Lonquex safety population and 
in study XM22-04 (compared to placebo) are presented in the following Tables 49 and 50. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 81/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 49: Most frequent PTs for severe TEAEs (incidence of ≥1% of patients in the 
pooled group) − pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses; all cancer patients, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Neutropenia 
Alopecia 
Anaemia 
Leukopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Disease progression 
Hypokalaemia 
Asthenia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
Pooled 
(N=399) 
n 
16 
9 
2 
5 
0 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
% 
10.6 
6.0 
1.3 
3.3 
– 
1.3 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
n 
35 
13 
13 
5 
10 
7 
9 
8 
6 
4 
4 
% 
14.1 
5.2 
5.2 
2.0 
4.0 
2.8 
3.6 
3.2 
2.4 
1.6 
1.6 
n 
51 
22 
15 
10 
10 
9 
9 
8 
6 
4 
4 
% 
12.8 
5.5 
3.8 
2.5 
2.5 
2.3 
2.3 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
1.0 
Note: This table is sorted by descending frequency in the pooled group. Multiple mentions per patient are possible. TEAEs 
with onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled 6 mg Lonquex treatment in study XM22-04 are not included. 
Table 50: Severe TEAEs occurring in ≥1% of patients in either treatment group - study 
XM22-04 
MedDRA PT 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
Lonquex 6 mg 
(N=248) 
% 
n 
% 
Neutropenia 
Alopecia 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Disease progression 
Febrile neutropenia 
Leukopenia 
Hypokalaemia 
Asthenia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Pulmonary embolism 
Cardio-respiratory arrest 
Fatigue 
Pain 
Note: 
possible. TEAEs with onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled Lonquex treatment are not included. 
24.8 
4.0 
3.2 
4.0 
1.6 
0.8 
6.4 
5.6 
– 
0.8 
0.8 
1.6 
– 
– 
– 
14.1 
5.2 
5.2 
4.0 
3.6 
3.2 
2.8 
2.0 
2.4 
1.6 
1.6 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
35 
13 
13 
10 
9 
8 
7 
5 
6 
4 
4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
31 
5 
4 
5 
2 
1 
8 
7 
0 
1 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0 
This  table  is  sorted  by  descending  frequency  in  the  Lonquex  group.  Multiple  mentions  per  patient  are 
An overview of adverse drug reactions in the overall safety population (506 patients and 76 
healthy volunteers is presented in the following Table 51. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 82/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 51: Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) with Lonquex, safety population 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction 
Thrombocytopenia 
Leukocytosis 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypokalaemia 
Headache 
Pulmonary adverse reactions 
Skin reactions 
Injection site reactions 
Musculoskeletal pains 
Chest pain 
Blood alkaline phosphatase 
increased, Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase increased 
Frequency Very common: ≥ 1/10 subjects exposed, Common:  ≥ 1/100 to < 1/10 subjects 
exposed, Uncommon: ≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 subjects exposed 
In terms of adverse events of special interest in the 6mg Lonquex safety population, no AEs were 
reported for Sweet’s syndrome, sickle cell crisis in patients with sickle cell disease, cutaneous 
vasculitis, splenic rupture and splenomegaly, immunogenicity, haematological malignancy, or off-
label use. Bone pain related symptoms are presented in the following Table 52. 
Table 52: Bone pain related symptoms by PT – pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses; all 
cancer patients; safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
Pooled 
(N=399) 
n 
% 
n 
% 
n 
% 
Any TEAE 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Bone pain 
Musculoskeletal chest pain 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
Definition  of  bone-pain-related  symptoms:  PT  in  "arthralgia"  "back  pain"  "bone  pain"  "musculoskeletal  chest  pain" 
"musculoskeletal discomfort" "musculoskeletal pain" "myalgia" "neck pain" "non-cardiac chest pain" "pain in extremity" 
Note: Multiple mentions per patient are possible. 
14.8 
4.0 
2.3 
7.3 
0.3 
0.3 
4.3 
0.8 
25.2 
4.6 
2.0 
15.9 
0.7 
0.7 
10.6 
– 
8.5 
3.6 
2.4 
2.0 
– 
– 
0.4 
1.2 
21 
9 
6 
5 
0 
0 
1 
3 
38 
7 
3 
24 
1 
1 
16 
0 
59 
16 
9 
29 
1 
1 
17 
3 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events  
In the 6 mg Lonquex safety population, the most commonly affected SOCs were blood and 
lymphatic system disorders (5.0%), general disorders and administration site conditions (2.8%), 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 83/108 
 
  
  
 
 
neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (2.5%), and respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders (2.0%). An overview by preferred term is presented in the following Table 53. 
Table 53: Most frequent PTs for serious TEAEs (incidence of >1 patient in the pooled 
group) − pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses; all cancer patients, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
Pooled 
(N=399) 
n 
% 
n 
% 
n 
% 
Anaemia 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Febrile neutropenia 
Disease progression 
Neutropenia 
Cardio-respiratory arrest 
Pulmonary embolism 
Thrombocytopenia 
Pneumonia 
Pulmonary haemorrhage 
Renal failure 
Sudden death 
Note: This table  is sorted by descending frequency  in the  pooled group. Multiple  mentions  per patient are possible. TEAEs 
with onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled 6 mg Lonquex treatment in study XM22-04 are not included. 
2.0 
2.0 
1.8 
1.5 
1.0 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
3.2 
3.2 
2.0 
2.4 
1.6 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
– 
– 
1.3 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
8 
8 
5 
6 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
8 
8 
7 
6 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
0 
0 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
The most frequent serious adverse events in study XM22-04 (compared to placebo) are 
presented in the following Table 54. 
Table 54: Most frequent PTs for serious TEAEs (incidence of > 1 patient in either 
treatment group); study XM22-04, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
Lonquex 6 mg 
(N=248) 
% 
n 
Anaemia 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Disease progression 
Febrile neutropenia 
Neutropenia 
Pulmonary embolism 
Cardio-respiratory arrest 
Thrombocytopenia 
Pneumonia 
Pulmonary haemorrhage 
Renal failure 
Sudden death 
Note: 
TEAEs with onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled Lonquex treatment are not included. 
1.6 
0.8 
– 
4.0 
0.8 
1.6 
– 
– 
2.4 
– 
– 
– 
8 
8 
6 
5 
4 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
0 
5 
1 
2 
0 
0 
3 
0 
0 
0 
% 
3.2 
3.2 
2.4 
2.0 
1.6 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
This table is sorted by descending frequency in the Lonquex group. Multiple mentions per patient are possible. 
Deaths 
No TEAEs leading to death were reported in study XM22-02-INT in breast cancer patients. 
A single patient, treated with Lonquex, died in study XM22-03. Death occurred 8 days after the 
patient received the only dose of study medication. An autopsy proved enterocolitis as the cause 
of death. Enterocolitis (grade 4) was documented by the investigator as an SAE, assessed as life-
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 84/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
threatening, important medical event with outcome death, and with no relationship to the study 
medication. 
Nine (7.2%) patients treated with placebo and 31 (12.5%) patients treated with Lonquex died in 
study XM22-04 during the conduct of the study and within the 30-day SAE follow up period.  
Table 55: TEAEs leading to death by PT; study XM22-04, safety population 
MedDRA PT 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
1 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
0 
Disease progression 
0 
Cardio-respiratory arrest 
2 
Pulmonary embolism 
0 
Renal failure 
0 
Sudden death 
1 
Lung neoplasm malignant 
1 
Multi-organ failure 
0 
Cardiopulmonary failure 
0 
Cerebrovascular accident 
0 
Dyspnoea 
0 
Embolism 
0 
Haemoptysis 
Hypovolaemic shock 
0 
Metastases to central nervous system  0 
0 
Pulmonary haemorrhage 
0 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
1 
Cardiac failure acute 
1 
Death 
1 
Ischaemic stroke 
1 
Pulmonary oedema 
Note: 
Lonquex 6 mg 
(N=248) 
% 
0.8 
– 
– 
1.6 
– 
– 
0.8 
0.8 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
n 
6 
5 
3 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
% 
2.4 
2.0 
1.2 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
0.4 
– 
– 
– 
– 
This table is sorted by descending frequency in the Lonquex group. Multiple mentions per patient are possible.  
With few exceptions, the TEAEs leading to death were manifestations of the underlying condition 
(NSCLC) and/or respiratory AEs. The higher overall frequency of TEAEs leading to death in the 
Lonquex group appears to be attributable primarily to a higher incidence of events reported as 
disease progression.  
-  Disease progression was reported as an AE leading to death and/or cause of death in 2 
(1.6%) patients in the placebo group as compared to 14 (5.6%) patients in the Lonquex 
group. [PTs in placebo group: non-small cell lung cancer (1), lung neoplasm malignant (1); 
PTs in the Lonquex group: non-small cell lung cancer (6), disease progression (5), lung 
neoplasm malignant (1), metastases to central nervous system (1), sudden death with 
suspected lung cancer as cause of death (1)]. 
-  Respiratory AEs leading to death were reported in 3 (2.4%) placebo patients as compared to 
9 (3.6%) Lonquex patients. [PTs in placebo group: pulmonary embolism (2), pulmonary 
oedema (1); PTs in Lonquex group: cardio-respiratory arrest (3), pulmonary embolism (2), 
pulmonary haemorrhage (1), dyspnoea (1), cardiopulmonary failure (1) and haemoptysis 
(1)]. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 85/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Only one TEAE leading to death was assessed by the investigator as related to study medication 
(Lonquex group, cardio-respiratory arrest on day 13 of cycle 1, relationship assessed by 
investigator as ‘unlikely’).  
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory abnormalities are presented in the following Tables 56 to 59 as shifts from baseline. 
Table 56: Frequencies of patients with increases in clinical chemistry parameters from 
normal at baseline to high at maximal follow-up value; pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, 
safety population 
Parameter 
Breast cancer 
(XM22-02/03 pooled) 
Lung cancer 
(XM22-04) 
Placebo (XM22-04) 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
ALT 
AST 
AP 
N 
Pat. 
  19 
  19 
  77 
Creatinine, serum 
8 
GGT 
Glucose, serum 
LDH 
Phosphate 
Potassium 
Sodium 
Total bilirubin 
  11 
  11 
  89 
  29 
  23 
3 
0 
Uric acid 
  10 
% 
Pat. 
13.6 
13.7 
57.5 
5.7 
8.0 
7.8 
73.0 
19.9 
16.1 
2.0 
– 
7.0 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
2 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1.4 
0.7 
– 
0.7 
0.7 
– 
0.8 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
N 
Pat. 
13 
13 
124 
52 
27 
44 
92 
18 
35 
1 
3 
% 
Pat. 
5.6 
5.6 
59.0 
26.0 
14.1 
20.0 
50.0 
7.9 
15.8 
0.4 
1.3 
25 
11.8 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.4 
0.4 
– 
– 
0.5 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
4 
6 
10 
29 
13 
28 
18 
5 
23 
1 
1 
10 
% 
Pat. 
3.5 
5.1 
10.9 
31.5 
13.5 
25.0 
18.8 
4.2 
20.9 
0.8 
0.8 
9.3 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
1 
2 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0.9 
1.7 
– 
– 
1.0 
– 
1.0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
ULN = upper limit of normal (reference) range 
% are calculated conditional on the total number of patients with values within the reference range at baseline. 
Follow-up values observed under open-labelled Lonquex 6 mg treatment are not included. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 86/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 57: Frequencies of patients with decreases in clinical chemistry parameters from 
normal at baseline to low at minimal follow-up value; pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, 
safety population 
Parameter 
Breast cancer 
(XM22-02/03 pooled) 
Lung cancer 
(XM22-04) 
Placebo (XM22-04) 
  <1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
<1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
<1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
ALT 
AST 
AP 
N 
Pat. 
  19 
  19 
  77 
Creatinine, serum 
8 
GGT 
Glucose, serum 
LDH 
Phosphate 
Potassium 
Sodium 
Total bilirubin 
  11 
  11 
  89 
  29 
  23 
3 
0 
Uric acid 
  10 
% 
Pat. 
13.6 
13.7 
57.5 
5.7 
8.0 
7.8 
73.0 
19.9 
16.1 
2.0 
– 
7.0 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
2 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1.4 
0.7 
– 
0.7 
0.7 
– 
0.8 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0 
0 
0 
17 
0 
14 
3 
45 
49 
17 
0 
15 
– 
– 
– 
8.5 
– 
6.4 
1.6 
19.8 
22.2 
7.4 
– 
7.1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0 
0 
3 
8 
0 
7 
3 
13 
10 
10 
0 
20 
– 
– 
3.3 
8.7 
– 
6.3 
3.1 
11.0 
9.1 
8.3 
– 
18.7 
LLN = lower limit of normal (reference) range 
% are calculated conditional on the total number of patients with values within the reference range at baseline. 
Follow-up values observed under open-labelled Lonquex 6 mg treatment are not included. 
Table 58: Frequencies of patients with increases in haematology parameters from 
normal at baseline to high at maximal follow-up value; pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, 
safety population 
Parameter 
Breast cancer 
(XM22-02/03 pooled) 
Lung cancer 
(XM22-04) 
Placebo (XM22-04) 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
>ULN 
>3xULN 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
Basophils, abs 
Eosinophils, abs 
Haematocrit 
Haemoglobin 
Lymphocytes, abs 
Monocytes, abs 
Neutrophils, abs 
Platelets 
WBC 
8 
2 
9 
1 
1 
  27 
  110 
  68 
  94 
5.7 
1.4 
8.8 
0.8 
0.8 
18.9 
82.7 
55.3 
79.7 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
2 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
45 
14 
2 
0 
51 
111 
1.5 
132 
– 
50 
1.7 
149 
19.8 
6.3 
1.1 
– 
23.5 
54.7 
76.7 
40.0 
81.4 
3 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 
31 
0 
23 
% 
Pat. 
1.3 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3.0 
18.0 
– 
12.6 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
3 
0 
3 
0 
5 
23 
27 
45 
27 
2.6 
– 
3.2 
– 
4.7 
21.1 
30.7 
61.6 
29.0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1.1 
– 
1.1 
ULN = upper limit of normal (reference) range 
% are calculated conditional on the total number of patients with values within the reference range at baseline. 
Follow-up values observed under open-labelled Lonquex 6 mg treatment are not included. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 87/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 59: Frequencies of patients with decreases in haematology parameters from 
normal at baseline to low at minimal follow-up value; pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, 
safety population 
Parameter 
Breast cancer 
(XM22-02/03 pooled) 
Lung cancer 
(XM22-04) 
Placebo (XM22-04) 
  <1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
<1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
<1/3xLLN 
<LLN 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
N 
Pat. 
% 
Pat. 
Basophils, abs 
Eosinophils, abs 
Haematocrit 
Haemoglobin 
Lymphocytes, abs 
Monocytes, abs 
Neutrophils, abs 
Platelets 
WBC 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0 
0 
53 
99 
31 
0 
2 
38 
16 
– 
– 
52.0 
83.9 
24.2 
– 
1.5 
30.9 
13.6 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
9 
0 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.5 
0.5 
0.6 
7.2 
– 
0 
0 
162 
127 
24 
0 
8 
78 
12 
– 
– 
86.2 
97.7 
11.1 
– 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
2.8 
4.7 
27 
30.7 
62.4 
6.6 
1 
7 
1.4 
7.5 
0 
0 
80 
53 
13 
0 
23 
30 
51 
– 
– 
85.1 
86.9 
12.3 
– 
26.1 
41.1 
54.8 
LLN = lower limit of normal (reference) range 
% are calculated conditional on the total number of patients with values within the reference range at baseline. 
Follow-up values observed under open-labelled Lonquex 6 mg treatment are not included. 
In healthy volunteers and in studies XM22-01-CH and XM22-05-CH, values outside the reference 
range were reported for many of the clinical chemistry and haematology variables measured 
(data not shown, see discussion on Clinical safety).  
Finally, in study XM22-06, two events of excessive hyperleukocytosis were reported in 1 subject, 
one after injection in the upper arm and one after injection in the abdomen. No other AEs 
associated with abnormal safety laboratory parameters were observed in this study. 
Immunogenicity 
In the phase I studies (XM22-01-CH, XM22-05-CH and XM22-06 studies) no subject’s sample 
was positive for presence of binding antibodies to Lonquex or Neulasta. 
Overall in the Lonquex clinical trials, a total of 579 patients or healthy subjects (XM22-01, XM22-
05, XM22-02, XM22-03, XM22-04 and XM22-06 studies) were treated with Lonquex. 
•  Seven (1.21%) of these patients/subjects had confirmed positive results at pre-dose 
timepoint only. 
• 
Five (0.86%) of the 579 patients/subjects had confirmed positive results at pre- and post-
dose time-points. 
•  Sixteen (2.76%) of the 579 patients/subjects had confirmed positive results at post-dose 
time points only. Hereof 15 patients had transient confirmed ADA response (i.e. positive 
ADA result for only single time-points). One Patient) had negative pre-dose ADA result but 
persistent ADA response in all other time-points for G-CSF only. No neutralizing activity or 
lack of efficacy was detected for this patient. 
188 patients or healthy subjects were treated with Neulasta. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 88/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Six (3.19%) of these patients/subjects had confirmed positive results at pre-dose timepoint 
only. 
•  Seven (3.72%) of the 188 patients/subjects had confirmed positive results at post-dose 
time points only. All patients had transient ADA response (i.e. positive ADA result for only 
single time-points). 
121 patients were treated with Placebo. 
•  One (0.83%) of these patients had a confirmed positive result at pre-dose time-point only. 
• 
• 
Two (1.65%) of the 121 patients had confirmed positive results at pre- and post- dose time 
points. 
Three (2.48 %) of the 121 patients had confirmed positive results at post-dose time points 
only. 
With regard to neutralising potential of detected antibodies: 
•  Of the 579 Lonquex treated subjects none developed neutralising activity against Lonquex.  
• 
• 
• 
Two subjects had neutralising activity for G-CSF in a single post-dose sample. The 
neutralising signals for these samples were borderline. No lack of efficacy or unexpected 
adverse event related to potential neutralising activity was detected for these subjects. 
Therefore these isolated borderline results for the two subjects are considered not being a 
sign of an immune response with clinically relevant neutralising activity. 
In the Neulasta cohort (all Neulasta treated subjects from all Lonquex clinical studies), no 
patients’ sample was found to be neutralising.  
In the Placebo cohort (all placebo treated subjects from all Lonquex clinical studies), no 
patients’ sample was found to be neutralising. 
Safety in special populations 
TEAEs reported for cancer patients treated with 6 mg Lonquex were analysed to investigate for 
the possible influence of the following intrinsic factors: age (<65, ≥65 years) and body weight 
(≤60, >60-75, >75 kg). 
Serious TEAEs were reported in 44 (13.3%) patients <65 years and 19 (27.5%) patients ≥65 
years. With the exception of FN and enterocolitis in 1 patient ≥65 years in study XM22-03, all 
serious TEAEs in patients ≥65 years were reported in study XM22-04. In addition to 2 cases of 
renal failure and 2 cases of disease progression, the most frequent serious TEAEs in patients ≥65 
years were NSCLC (2 patients, 2.9%), anaemia (2 patients, 2.9%), FN (3 patients, 4.3%), and 
neutropenia (3 patients, 4.3%) Only 1 patient ≥65 years had a serious TEAE (gastric 
haemorrhage) regarded by the investigator as related to study drug.  
The most frequent adverse events by age subgroup are presented in the following Table 60. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 89/108 
 
  
  
 
Table 60: Most frequent PTs for TEAEs occurring in ≥5% of patients in either age 
subgroup; pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, safety populations 
MedDRA PT 
<65 years (N=330) 
≥65 years (N=69) 
n 
Alopecia 
Nausea 
Neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Asthenia 
Vomiting 
Decreased appetite 
Thrombocytopenia 
Leukopenia 
Hypokalaemia 
Diarrhoea 
Fatigue 
Weight decreased 
Hypophosphataemia 
Dizziness 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Dyspnoea 
Bone pain 
Headache 
Note: Multiple mentions per patient are possible. 
187 
123 
63 
55 
58 
31 
28 
27 
17 
11 
23 
22 
9 
7 
12 
12 
8 
27 
20 
% 
56.7 
37.3 
19.1 
16.7 
17.6 
9.4 
8.5 
8.2 
5.2 
3.3 
7.0 
6.7 
2.7 
2.1 
3.6 
3.6 
2.4 
8.2 
6.1 
n 
34 
19 
18 
18 
12 
11 
11 
11 
11 
9 
7 
7 
6 
5 
4 
4 
4 
2 
2 
% 
49.3 
27.5 
26.1 
26.1 
17.4 
15.9 
15.9 
15.9 
15.9 
13.0 
10.1 
10.1 
8.7 
7.2 
5.8 
5.8 
5.8 
2.9 
2.9 
With regard to the weight, serious TEAEs -Serious TEAEs were reported in 19 (18.1%) patients 
≤60 kg, 24 (14.7%) patients >60 75 kg, and 20 (15.3%) patients >75 kg. Differences between 
weight classes were small. Serious TEADRs were reported most frequently in the group of 
patients ≤60 kg (5 patients, 4.8%, as compared with 1 patient in each of the other weight 
classes). The serious TEADRs reported in the weight class ≤60 kg were FN (1 patient) 
leukocytosis (1 patient), thrombocytopenia (1 patient), ischemic cerebral infarction (1 patient), 
cardio-respiratory arrest (1 patient), and gastric haemorrhage.  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No clinical drug-drug interaction studies with Lonquex were submitted. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Adverse events leading to discontinuation are presented in the following Table 61. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 90/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 61: Most frequent PTs for TEAEs leading to discontinuation of study participation 
(incidence of >1 patient in either treatment group); pooled Lonquex 6 mg analyses, 
safety populations 
MedDRA PT 
Disease progression 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Anaemia 
Pulmonary embolism 
Cardio-respiratory arrest 
Haemoptysis 
Pain 
Renal failure 
Sudden death 
Lung neoplasm malignant 
Neutropenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Pneumonia 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
Breast cancer 
(N=151) 
n 
% 
Lung cancer 
(N=248) 
Placebo 
(N=125) 
n 
% 
n 
% 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.7 
0.7 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.7 
0.7 
14 
12 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
5.6 
4.8 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.8 
0.4 
0.4 
– 
– 
– 
– 
4 
4 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
2 
3 
2 
0 
0 
3.2 
3.2 
0.8 
0.8 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1.6 
1.6 
2.4 
1.6 
– 
– 
Note: This table is sorted by descending frequency in the pooled group. Multiple mentions per patient are possible. TEAEs with 
onset after start of prophylactic open-labelled 6 mg Lonquex treatment in study XM22-04 are not included. 
Post marketing experience 
Not applicable 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
A total of 503 patients were randomised and treated with Lonquex (at any dose) in the 3 Phase 
II and III studies; more than 399 of these were treated with 6 mg Lonquex. 3 patients 
randomised to placebo in study XM22-04 were switched to prophylactic open-labelled treatment 
with 6 mg Lonquex. However, safety data for these patients are not included within the analyses 
presented within this report. In addition, 76 healthy subjects received study medication as a 
weight-based or fixed-dose injection in the 3 Phase I studies. The size of the safety database for 
the 6mg fixed dose is considered to be adequate given the patient groups enrolled in the study 
and is in line with the guideline on clinical trials with haematopoietic growth factors for the 
prophylaxis of infection following myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy 
(EMEA/CPMP/555/95Rev.1). 
The AE and ADR profiles of G-CSF products used to reduce the incidence and duration of febrile 
neutropenia in patients receiving myelotoxic chemotherapy are well described. On the whole, the 
nature and frequency of adverse events associated with Lonquex in the submitted studies were 
in keeping with those encountered with use of a G-CSF product (e.g. bone pain, arthralgia, back-
pain and headache) and are in keeping with those expected in patients with advanced 
malignancies treated with myelotoxic chemotherapy (e.g. alopecia, nausea, asthenia, diarrhoea, 
neutropenia and leukopenia). 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 91/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
In study XM22-02-INT, the observed differences in AE frequencies between treatment groups 
were considered limited. The frequencies of known AE related to G-CSF treatment like 
musculoskeletal pain, bone pain, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, epistaxis, headache, diarrhoea, 
and cutaneous vasculitis, were mostly slightly higher in the patients groups treated with 4.5 mg 
and 6 mg Lonquex in comparison to Neulasta and the 3 mg Lonquex dose. The safety profile of 
the 4.5 mg Lonquex dose was not clearly better than that of the 6 mg Lonquex dose. 
In study XM22-03, none of the SOC differences between treatment groups were regarded as 
clinically relevant. The frequency of some of the AEs known as class effect of G-CSF products, 
like bone pain, musculoskeletal pain and headache, were slightly higher in the Lonquex group 
than in the Neulasta group. Diarrhoea was reported less frequently in the Lonquex group than in 
the Neulasta group. Generally, more TEADRS were seen in patients treated with Lonquex than in 
patients treated with Neulasta.  
In study XM22-04 in lung cancer patients, despite the advanced disease status of enrolled 
patients, the difference in mortality between Lonquex and placebo early in the study was a 
concern (12.5% vs. 7.2% respectively). The most frequently associated TEAEs with deaths in 
this study were NSCLC and disease progression (11 events vs. 1; Lonquex and placebo 
respectively). The Applicant claimed that analyses did not reveal a relationship between the 
events and inequalities of baseline disease characteristics (e.g. tumour stage, ECOG performance 
status etc…), although an imbalance was seen for tumour histology. It is also claimed that in the 
majority of cases the events were classified as unrelated to study drugs. However, uncertainty 
surrounds these data (please refer to the discussion on Clinical efficacy regarding methodological 
limitations of progression data).  
On the other hand, survival data in study XM22-04 suggest that although there is some 
divergence during the first 6 months, this has disappeared by the end of the year, with similar 1 
year mortality rates between the two arms (44% for Lonquex and 44.7% for placebo). Whereas 
at the end of the observation period about 50% of the patients were lost to follow-up, the overall 
survival is similar well before day 360 in the Kaplan-Meier analysis when the drop-out rate had 
not exceeded 18.5%.  
Reassuringly, this imbalance in disease progression and early mortality was not seen in the 
breast cancer patients enrolled in the other clinical studies where no patients died with 
associated TEAEs of disease progression and only 1 patient treated with Lonquex died (with an 
associated TEAE of enterocolitis). With regard to the overall survival results in the breast cancer 
study XM22-03 and as evident in the Kaplan-Meier plot (see Figure 6), there was no difference in 
overall survival between Lonquex and Neulasta. There were only very few cases censored before 
day 330. Therefore censoring is unlikely to have had a significant effect on the overall survival 
analysis. Due to the low mortality rate not reaching 50% during the one year observation period 
the median survival could not be calculated. The hazard ratio (Lonquex to Neulasta) was 
calculated as 1.16 (95%-CI: 0.42 to 3.19) and it was not statistically significantly different from 
1 (p=0.7767). 
However, this possible signal could be specific to lung or non-breast cancer tumours. Indeed, 
within the literature it has been reported that G-CSF receptors are present on the surface of cells 
of several tumour types, including NSCLC and that G-CSF receptor expression has been 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 92/108 
 
  
  
implicated in the progression of malignant behaviour, cell proliferation and reduction in cell death 
in non-haematopoietic cancers, including NSCLC. 
Given the above, it cannot currently be excluded that Lonquex is associated with an increased 
risk of mortality, progression of NSCLC, or indeed other tumour types.  
Granulocyte colony stimulating factor can promote growth of myeloid cells and some non-
myeloid cells in vitro. The safety and efficacy of Lonquex have not been investigated in patients 
with chronic myeloid leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndromes or secondary acute myeloid 
leukaemia; it should therefore not be used in such patients. Particular care should be taken to 
distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of chronic myeloid leukaemia from acute 
myeloid leukaemia. 
Reports of bone pain, which is a known ADR for G-CSF products, were more frequent in the 
Lonquex arm than placebo arm of the XM22-04 study in lung cancer patients (8.5% vs. 6.4% 
respectively) and were reported with similar frequency to Neulasta in studies XM22-03 and 
XM22-02 INT. Only one report was judged as severe. The data do not suggest that the increased 
exposure and ANC values seen with Lonquex therapy compared to Neulasta results in a higher 
incidence or severity of bone pain. Notably, despite the slightly improved PK and PD outcomes 
for Lonquex 6mg vs. Lonquex 4.5mg in study XM22-02 INT, there did not appear to be a 
corresponding increase in AEs associated with the 6mg dose. 
Nearly all patients in the phase II and III studies experienced decreases in haemoglobin and or 
haematocrit. Changes from baseline to below the LLN in those that were enrolled with normal 
haemoglobin were similar for Lonquex, Neulasta and placebo patients, indicating that the 
decreases seen were mainly the result of the concomitantly administered chemotherapy. In 
healthy subjects (study XM22-05 CH), there were 23 instances of haemoglobin values becoming 
abnormally high or low in Lonquex treated healthy subjects and 25 such instances in Neulasta 
treated subjects.  Decreases were also seen in the lymphocyte count in the 3 studied patients 
groups without apparent significant differences between the results. Lymphopenia is a known 
ADR of both myelosuppressive chemotherapy and G-CSF treatment. 
There were several patients who experienced changes in clinical chemistry parameters during the 
phase II and III studies. Increases above the ULN of ALP were seen in several patients in the 
Lonquex arms of studies (59% lung CA/ 57% breast CA) which were in excess of increases seen 
in the placebo and Neulasta arms (10.9 % and 17.6%) respectively. The increases in ALP were 
accompanied by a smaller number of increases > ULN in liver enzymes, ALT and AST. Similarly 
the proportion of Lonquex patients with LDH values >ULN was consistently in excess of the 
proportion with elevated LDH levels administered Neulasta or placebo. However, it was clarified 
that the primary source of elevated ALP and LDH levels associated with Lonquex therapy comes 
from neutrophils. Moreover, study data did not reveal a clear association between bone pain or 
musculoskeletal AEs and elevated ALP levels.  
Increases >ULN (primarily Breast CA) and decreases <LLN (primarily lung CA) of phosphate were 
detected with greater frequency than increases and decreases in placebo patients and Neulasta 
treated patients respectively. Hyperkalaemia and hypokalaemia were observed with some 
regularity, with hypokalaemia occurring more frequently in lung cancer patients administered 
Lonquex. Hypokalaemia was reported for 8.1% of the patients belonging to the Lonquex group 
and in only 2.4% of the patients treated with placebo. Hypokalaemia is not a known AE of 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 93/108 
 
  
  
Neulasta. Interestingly, in the breast cancer studies hypokalaemia was not reported for Lonquex 
or Neulasta treated patients.  
It should be noted that whilst a large number of patients experienced abnormal changes of 
haematological and biochemical parameters, relatively few patients experienced severe changes 
to >3x ULN or <1/3 LLN. Moreover, none of the elevated or decreased laboratory safety values 
were assessed by the investigator as clinically significant. The results of changes in haematology 
parameters, decreased haemoglobin and erythrocyte counts, increased numbers of leukocytes, 
and changes in the relative and absolute differential blood count at all doses were concordant 
with results of previous studies with Neulasta or with repeated blood sampling. Transient 
elevations in serum enzymes (LDH, AP, ALT) and serum uric acid and decreases in serum calcium 
were also to be expected from the experiences with filgrastim and pegfilgrastim reported in the 
published data. Therefore, for all these parameters, the out-of-range values are likely to have 
been related to the known pharmacological effects of the study drug or to the specificities of the 
study setting (repeated blood sampling for decreased haemoglobin and erythrocyte counts). 
The safety and efficacy of Lonquex have not been investigated in patients receiving high dose 
chemotherapy. Lonquex should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic chemotherapy 
beyond established dosage regimens. 
Patients who are hypersensitive to G-CSF or derivatives are also at risk of hypersensivity 
reactions to lipegfilgrastim due to possible cross reactivity. No lipegfilgrastim therapy should be 
commenced in these patients because of the risk of cross reaction. Most biological medicinal 
products elicit some level of anti-drug antibody response. This antibody response can, in some 
cases, lead to undesirable effects or loss of efficacy. If a patient fails to respond to treatment, 
the patient should undergo further evaluation. If a serious allergic reaction occurs, appropriate 
therapy with close patient follow up over several days should be administered. Finally, Lonquex is 
contra-indicated in case of hypersensitivity to lipegfilgrastim or to any of its excipients. 
Frequent but generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and infrequent cases of splenic 
rupture, including fatal cases, have been reported following administration of G CSF or 
derivatives. Spleen size should therefore be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, 
ultrasound). A diagnosis of splenic rupture should be considered in patients reporting left upper 
abdominal pain or shoulder tip pain. 
Pulmonary adverse reactions, in particular interstitial pneumonia, have been reported after 
administration of lipegfilgrastim. Patients with a recent history of pulmonary infiltrates or 
pneumonia may be at higher risk. The onset of pulmonary symptoms such as cough, fever and 
dyspnoea in association with radiological signs of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in 
pulmonary function together with an increased neutrophil count may be preliminary signs of 
Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). In such circumstances Lonquex should be 
discontinued at the discretion of the physician and appropriate treatment given. 
Sickle cell crisis has been associated with the use of G CSF or derivatives in patients with sickle 
cell anaemia. Physicians should therefore exercise caution when administering Lonquex in 
patients with sickle cell anaemia, monitor appropriate clinical parameters and laboratory results 
and be attentive to the possible association of lipegfilgrastim with splenic enlargement and vaso 
occlusive crisis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 94/108 
 
  
  
The safety profile of Lonquex between subgroups i.e. age, body weight and sex were 
comparable. Serious TEAEs, TEAEs leading to death, and TEAEs leading to discontinuation were 
reported more frequently in patients ≥65 years than in patients <65 years. Overall, the types of 
TEAEs reported in patients ≥65 years were consistent with the safety profile of the drug. A 
higher rate of TEAEs is not unexpected in a more elderly group of patients with a serious 
underlying disease. With regard to weight, the analyses do not show consistent evidence of a 
greater safety risk for this group of patients when treated with 6 mg Lonquex. The differences 
between the weight classes are considered not clinically relevant. However, underdosing in 
heavier patients has been included as a potential risk in the RMP. Finally, PK was markedly 
different between genders, although PD data (ANC and CD34+ count) did not indicate any 
differences between men and women. Asthenia is the only AE which is substantially more 
frequently reported for men than for women. The frequencies of severe TEAEs reported in 
women and men were comparable. There is no indication of a difference in safety profile of 
Lonquex between genders.  
An analysis of anti-drug antibodies of 579 patients and healthy volunteers treated with 
lipegfilgrastim, 188 patients and healthy volunteers treated with pegfilgrastim and 121 patients 
treated with placebo was performed. Drug specific antibodies emerging after start of treatment 
were detected in 0.86 % of the subjects receiving lipegfilgrastim, in 1.06 % of the subjects 
receiving pegfilgrastim and in 1.65 % of the subjects receiving placebo. No neutralising 
antibodies against lipegfilgrastim were observed. 
The Applicant has presented predicted PK and cycle 1 PD readouts for patients that developed 
positive antibodies during the Lonquex studies. The summary data suggest that PK and PD 
estimates for patients with and without antibodies were similar. However, PK data were only 
available for 2 patients, as sampling did not occur in the majority of patients who developed 
positive anti-drug antibody titres. Further data is therefore required to evaluate the effect of 
positive antibodies on the PK of Lonquex. As, there are data for DSN suggesting no effect on PD, 
further evaluation can occur post-approval. The Applicant reports that ADA analysis with PK 
evaluation in paediatric patients will be available from two studies. The immunogenicity data 
from these studies should be submitted for evaluation when the safety and efficacy data are 
submitted. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In conclusion, the safety profile of Lonquex is acceptable. There is, however, some uncertainty 
regarding a potential effect of this product or even class of products on the progression of 
underlying malignancy (ies). Therefore, the CHMP considered the following measures necessary 
to address issues related to safety: 
The Applicant should further investigate the risks of disease progression and mortality 
associated with Lonquex in patients with malignancy treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy in an 
interventional post authorisation safety study. Risks should be determined in relation to an 
established comparator and placebo and objective evaluation of disease progression should 
occur. Care must be taken to select a suitably sensitive clinical model in which to evaluate the 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 95/108 
 
  
  
above risks. The study protocol should be submitted no later than 6 months after CHMP 
Opinion. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a Risk Management Plan. 
Table 62: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Important identified risks 
Musculoskeletal pain-
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Mentioning of musculoskeletal pains 
related symptoms 
including presentation of 
as most frequent undesirable effects 
respective data in the 
in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. A breakdown 
review by each MedDRA PT 
grouped under the risk of 
musculoskeletal pain-related 
symptoms will be included in 
PSURs/PBRERs. 
Allergic type reactions 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Contraindication in section 4.3 of 
including presentation of 
the SmPC in case of hypersensitivity 
respective data in the 
to the active substance. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
- Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that no lipegfilgrastim therapy should 
be commenced in patients who are 
hypersensitive to G-CSF or 
derivatives because of the risk of 
cross-reaction. 
- Mentioning of hypersensitivity 
reactions in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 96/108 
 
  
  
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Pulmonary adverse 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
effects (including 
including presentation of 
with regard to pulmonary adverse 
interstitial lung 
disease, ARDS) 
respective data in the 
reactions. 
- Mentioning of pulmonary adverse 
reactions in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. A breakdown 
review per SMQ and MedDRA 
PT grouped under the risk of 
“Pulmonary adverse effects 
(including interstitial lung 
disease, ARDS)” will be 
included in PSURs/PBRERs. 
Thrombocytopenia 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- As a precaution (section 4.4 of the 
including presentation of 
SmPC) regular monitoring of the 
respective data in the 
platelet count and haematocrit is 
corresponding chapter of the 
recommended. Special care should 
PSUR/PBRER. 
be taken when administering 
chemotherapeutic medicinal products 
which are known to cause severe 
thrombocytopenia. 
- Mentioning of thrombocytopenia in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Leukocytosis 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- As a precaution (section 4.4 of the 
including presentation of 
SmPC) a white blood cell count 
respective data in the 
should be performed at regular 
corresponding chapter of the 
intervals during therapy. If WBC 
PSUR/PBRER. 
counts are elevated lipegfilgrastim 
should be discontinued immediately. 
- Mentioning of leukocytosis in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Important potential risks 
Immunogenicity which 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Contraindication in section 4.3 of 
may manifest as lack 
including presentation of 
the SmPC in case of hypersensitivity 
of effect 
respective data in the 
to the active substance. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
- Instruction in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC to further evaluate patients 
- Review of all spontaneously 
that fail to respond to treatment. 
received ADR reports, and 
offering of antibody testing in 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 97/108 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
case of a suspected 
immunogenicity reaction to 
Lonquex. 
- Additional pharmacovigilance 
activity: Review of 
immunogenicity data coming 
from paediatric studies as part 
of the Paediatric Investigation 
Plan. 
Sweet's syndrome 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Mentioning of Sweet’s syndrome in 
including presentation of 
section 4.8 of the SmPC as being 
respective data in the 
attributable to G-CSF and derivatives. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
Sickle cell crisis in 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
patients with sickle cell 
including presentation of 
with regard to the risk of sickle cell 
disease 
respective data in the 
crisis in patients with sickle cell 
corresponding chapter of the 
anaemia. 
PSUR/PBRER. 
- Mentioning of sickle cell crisis in 
patients with sickle cell anaemia in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC as being 
attributable to G-CSF and derivatives. 
Cutaneous vasculitis 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Mentioning of cutaneous vasculitis 
including presentation of 
in section 4.8 of the SmPC as being 
respective data in the 
attributable to G-CSF and derivatives. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
Splenomegaly, splenic 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
rupture 
including presentation of 
with regard to splenomegaly and 
respective data in the 
splenic rupture. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
- Mentioning of splenomegaly and 
splenic rupture in section 4.8 of the 
SmPC as being attributable to G-CSF 
and derivatives. 
Risks in off-label use 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Mentioning of the therapeutic 
including a targeted follow up 
indications in section 4.1 of the 
questionnaire. Adverse events 
SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 98/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
reported in off-label indications 
- Special requirements in section 4.2 
will be analysed in future 
of the SmPC for initiation and 
PSURs/PBRERs. Where 
supervision of Lonquex treatment by 
relevant, the adverse events 
a physician experienced in oncology 
reported in the different off-
or haematology. 
label indications will be 
separated. 
- Additional pharmacovigilance 
activity: 
Drug utilisation study to 
characterise the extent of off-
label use. 
Overdose 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Clear dosage recommendations in 
including a targeted follow up 
section 4.2 of the SmPC and section 
questionnaire and presentation 
3 of the PIL. 
of respective data in the 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
- Special requirements in section 4.2 
of the SmPC for initiation and 
supervision of Lonquex treatment by 
a physician experienced in oncology 
or haematology. 
Reduced 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- In section 5.2 of the SmPC the 
pharmacodynamic 
including a follow up 
trend towards a decrease in 
effect in patients > 95 
questionnaire and presentation 
lipegfilgrastim exposure with increase 
kg body weight. 
of respective data in the 
in weight is mentioned. 
corresponding chapter of the 
PSUR/PBRER. 
Progression of 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Special requirements in section 4.2 
underlying malignancy 
including presentation of 
of the SmPC for initiation and 
respective data in the 
supervision of Lonquex treatment by 
corresponding chapter of the 
a physician experienced in oncology 
PSUR/PBRER. 
or haematology. 
- Additional pharmacovigilance 
activity: 
Performing a prospective 
active controlled PASS: 
Safety of Lonquex in 
comparison to Neulasta and 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 99/108 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
placebo in patients with non-
squamous non-small-cell lung 
cancer receiving cisplatin / 
pemetrexed chemotherapy. 
Important missing information 
Risks in children < 18 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- In section 4.2 of the SmPC it is 
years of age 
- Performance of a paediatric 
study  as part of the Paediatric 
Investigation Plan. 
mentioned that safety and efficacy in 
children aged up to 17 years have 
not yet been established. 
Risks in patients ≥65 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- In sections 4.2 and 5.2 of the SmPC 
years of age 
it is mentioned that data on elderly 
patients is limited. 
Risks in pregnant and 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- In section 4.6 of the SmPC it is 
lactating women 
mentioned that data on the use of 
lipegfilgrastim in pregnant women is 
limited and use of lipegfilgrastim 
should be avoided. 
- In section 4.6 of the SmPC it is 
mentioned that it is unknown 
whether lipegfilgrastim/metabolites 
are excreted in human milk and a 
risk to the suckling child cannot be 
excluded. Breast-feeding should be 
discontinued during treatment with 
lipegfilgrastim. 
Risks in patients with 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- In section 4.2 of the SmPC it is 
hepatic or renal 
impairment 
mentioned that no recommendation 
on a posology can be made for 
patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below 
pharmacovigilance activity in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
A post-authorisation safety study to further investigate the risks of disease 
30/06/2017 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 100/108 
 
  
  
 
Description 
Due date 
progression and mortality associated with Lonquex in patients with 
malignancy treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy. Risks should be determined 
in relation to an established comparator and placebo and objective evaluation 
of disease progression should occur. A suitably sensitive clinical model should 
be selected in which to evaluate the above risks. Submission of final study 
report. 
Immunogenicity data from paediatric studies should be provided. 
30/06/2017 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted 
by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human 
use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The pivotal studies in patients with advanced breast cancer and lung cancer have demonstrated 
the efficacy of Lonquex in reducing the incidence and duration of severe neutropenia in these 
patients who are concurrently treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy. In study XM22-03, the mean 
DSN in cycle 1 of CTX for patients treated with Neulasta was 0.8 +/-0.9 days and for patients 
treated with Lonquex it was 0.7+/-0.9 days. The Poisson regression analysis for Neulasta-
Lonquex yielded a 95% CI of -0.498 to 0.062 with a p value of 0.1260.; by which non-inferiority 
of Lonquex to Neulasta for DSN in cycle 1 of CTX was proven. Lonquex was also associated with 
a rate of febrile neutropenia not worse than Neulasta in study XM22-03. Although in the XM22-04 
study the incidence of FN was twice as high for patients treated with placebo in comparison to 
patients treated with Lonquex (5.6% in the placebo group vs. 2.4% in the Lonquex group), the 
difference proved not to be statistically significant. The key efficacy data from these studies are 
supported by robust PK and PD data from 3 studies in healthy subjects and a dose ranging study 
in breast cancer patients; in addition to the clinical pharmacology data collected in the pivotal 
studies.  
In the lung cancer study XM22-04, consistent significant reductions in time to recovery of ANC 
from neutropenic episodes, incidence and duration of very severe neutropenia and time to ANC 
recovery were seen for Lonquex compared to placebo. The statistically significantly superior data 
were seen in all four cycles of chemotherapy. For these endpoints in study XM22-03, there was a 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 101/108 
 
  
  
 
trend to better outcome in patients administered Lonquex than in those receiving Neulasta. Often 
the differences were clinically significantly better; incidence of very severe neutropenia and time 
to ANC recovery for instance. Other benefits highlighted by the pivotal studies included 
reductions in delays of  initiating chemotherapy and reduction in hospitalisation episodes 
associated with infection during cycle 1. 
In both pivotal studies subgroup analyses by region, body weight and gender yielded results 
consistent with the results of the primary analyses. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
In both the XM22-03 and the XM22-04 studies, patients with impaired hepatic and/or renal 
function were excluded from the trials. Therefore, no or limited efficacy and safety data of 
Lonquex for these patients are available. This has been reflected adequately in sections 4.2 and 
5.2 of the SmPC. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
In both the XM22-03 and XM22-04 studies, a significant proportion of reported AEs in cancer 
patients treated with 6 mg Lonquex were consistent with the underlying disease of the patient 
population treated, including known AEs of the chemotherapy used like alopecia, nausea, 
asthenia, diarrhoea, neutropenia and leukopenia.  
In the studies comparing Lonquex with Neulasta (XM22-03 and XM22-02-INT), the frequency of 
AEs known to occur with all G-CSF products like, bone pain, myalgia and headache were slightly 
higher in the Lonquex group than in the Neulasta group (XM22-03;13.9% vs. 9.9%; 8.9% vs. 
5.9% and 8.9% vs. 5.0% respectively). Also in comparison to placebo these known G-CSF 
related AEs were reported more frequently in patients treated with Lonquex (bone pain 2.0% vs. 
0.8%; arthralgia 2.4% vs. 1.6%; back-pain 3.6% vs. 1.6%; headache 3.6% vs. 3.2%). 
The observed differences in frequencies of AEs between Neulasta and Lonquex were small and 
did not lead to an increase in use of supportive treatments or discontinuation of study treatments 
for patients treated with Lonquex. Interestingly, fewer systemic antibiotics, analgesics, 
anaesthetics and drugs for functional gastrointestinal disorders were newly prescribed to patients 
in the Lonquex treatment group than in the Neulasta group. A similar pattern is seen for the 
comparison of Lonquex to placebo, although drugs for functional gastrointestinal disorders were 
newly prescribed to fewer patients on placebo than administered Lonquex. 
Other risks associated with Lonquex in the clinical trials in patients concern lab value 
abnormalities, some reported as adverse events. Some are already known to be associated with 
G-CSF therapy. However a number occurred more frequently with Lonquex in studies where 
Lonquex and Neulasta or Lonquex and placebo were compared: higher rates of thrombocytopenia 
than seen with Neulasta; higher rates of ALP, LDH  and liver function test abnormalities than 
seen with Neulasta; higher rates of hypokalaemia compared to placebo; higher rates of anaemia 
in healthy subjects compared to Neulasta. Finally, in study XM22-04, rates of anaemia and 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 102/108 
 
  
  
thrombocytopenia were higher in the Lonquex study arm and more Lonquex patients required 
blood transfusions and administration of erythropoietins than placebo patients.   
Data on presence of both binding and neutralising anti-drug antibodies were presented, which 
confirmed the frequency of confirmed treatment-emergent binding anti-Lonquex antibodies to be 
low (2.76%). Similar data were obtained for the Neulasta treated patients (3.72%) and placebo 
treated patients (2.48 %) in the development programme.  So far, no neutralising confirmed 
positive antibodies have been detected.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The principal safety risk relates to a potential increase in disease progression events and overall 
mortality as seen in the lung cancer study (XM22-04) by the end of the 30 day study follow up 
period (Day 85); (mortality: 7.2% placebo vs. 12.5% Lonquex) (disease progression AEs & 
reports: 13.6% placebo vs. 19.4% Lonquex) (disease progression AEs leading to death: 1.6% 
placebo vs. 5.6% Lonquex). Also, estimates of mean time to progression in the patients that 
progressed in the main part of the study, calculated from patient listings, were smaller in 
Lonquex patients than placebo patients (41.7 days vs.  58.8 days respectively) (missing data not 
included/ earliest report only considered). The data for disease progression (regardless of 
mortality) at the end of the 360-day follow up period summarising the reports occurring in the 
main study and during the immunogenicity follow up periods from the patient listings suggests 
that incidence of progression reports at the end of follow up was similar between placebo and 
Lonquex patients. Importantly, progression was not objectively and systematically evaluated in 
the study and it was not specifically defined in the protocol or by the sponsor for investigators. 
The narratives and the safety section in general, do not provide many details regarding the 
nature of the progressions or any exploratory analysis undertaken to ascertain an association of 
the events with any specific characteristics of the investigational product.  
Kaplan Meier survival curves produced for study XM22-04 show early divergence of the curves 
and convergence during the 6-8 month time period. The hazard ratio for overall survival time for 
the main part of the study was 1.796 (95% CI 0.855; 3.772), suggesting that the difference in 
the curves was not statistically significantly different. The data for the first year of follow up 
showed there to be no mortality differences at that time point (mortality: 44.8% placebo vs. 
44.0% Lonquex). The observed difference in mortality between the trial arms treated with 
placebo and Lonquex during the main study period of XM22-04 may be partly due to the 
imbalance in baseline variables in terms of unfavourable prognostic factors between the 
treatment groups; although it is noted that the list of variables analysed is post-hoc and in part 
exploratory, so that results of relevant analyses should not be overstated. It is also worth noting 
that the Kaplan Meier survival curves rejoined and remained overlapping from the 6-8 month 
time point after start of treatment, with the number of patients lost to follow-up remaining under 
20% until at least day 275, suggesting that the curves could be more robust than suggested by 
the protocol-mandated soft approach to patient follow-up after the main part of the study. The 
CHMP acknowledged the overlapping survival curves in the latter half of the Kaplan Meier plot 
from study XM22-04 and considered that an effect on mortality should have resulted in further 
separation of the curves to the point where the curves became very unstable. However, the 
committee also noted that the shape of the plot could also be consistent with an effect on a small 
group of patients with particularly poor prognosis or particularly susceptible to progression. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 103/108 
 
  
  
Ultimately, no clear conclusion could be drawn from the differences seen in the Kaplan-Meyer 
curves due to the small number of events that occurred and decreasing robustness of the data 
over time, as the number of drop-outs and censored data increased. 
Available in vitro and in vivo data may provide an explanation for the differences seen in the 
number of progression events, the mean time to progression reports and increased mortality 
associated with the Lonquex arm. From available literature, it is clear that functional G-CSF 
receptors are present on several non-haematopoietic cancers and that G-CSF (endogenous or 
exogenous) and G-CSF receptor expression in vitro and in vivo can promote tumour cell 
proliferation, malignant behaviour and progression. Therefore there is a biologically plausible 
explanation for the progression and mortality data seen in study XM22-04. 
It is acknowledged that any identified increase in risk of disease progression and/or mortality 
may be shared across the class of G-CSF and derivatives rather than being specific to Lonquex 
treatment. Publications presented by the Applicant for placebo controlled studies with 
lenograstim, pegfilgrastim and filgrastim do not suggest a risk of early disease progression and 
mortality, although there were some deficiencies in these studies with recording and reporting 
progression and mortality data at the relevant time points and only data from the publications 
and not clinical study reports were scrutinised at the time. In addition, there is little evidence 
that the risk of tumour progression and mortality (if real) would vary with origin of tumour or 
with G-CSF product administered. Structurally, there is considered to be little difference between 
the molecules.  
Moreover, it cannot be excluded that the risks of early disease progression and mortality may be 
associated with pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic factors. In both healthy subjects and 
patients in the target population, the cumulative (AUC0-∞) and peak exposures (Cmax) of Lonquex 
6mg were significantly higher than in patients administered Neulasta 6mg in cycle 1. However 
differences appeared to decrease in subsequent cycles. This disparity in exposures between 
Lonquex and Neulasta seemed also to be associated with greater pharmacodynamic responses 
for Lonquex patients, although for the most part, not statistically significantly greater than those 
from Neulasta patients.  However, for the moment the association of PK & PD differences 
between Neulasta and Lonquex and the potential increased risk of disease progression and 
mortality in Lonquex patients remains hypothetical.  
In the two breast cancer studies vs. Neulasta, a signal of early mortality or disease progression 
was not detected, as only 1 Lonquex associated death occurred in both studies. However, 
absence of a signal does not exclude the risks in this or other settings, as the apparent lack of 
risk could be due to a number of possible confounding factors including insensitivity of the breast 
cancer model, use of highly cytotoxic concomitant chemotherapy, unknown status of G CSF 
receptor expression on tumours evaluated and tumour origin. 
Overall, a clear link between recombinant G-CSF administration and increased risk of cancer 
progression in oncology patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy has not been established. 
It is still not clear what impact tumour cell histology, risk factors for progression (advanced 
stage, high ECOG etc.), toxicity of concurrently administered antineoplastic therapy and brevity 
of G-CSF treatment  have on the risk of tumour progression in cancer patients. Whilst 
uncertainties exist, given the breadth of data available on effects of G-CSF on several tumour cell 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 104/108 
 
  
  
lines and tumours both in vitro and in vivo and the adverse data from Study XM22-04, it cannot 
be excluded that Lonquex promotes malignant behaviour and progression of cancers.    
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The clinically and statistically significant response data for reduction of duration of severe 
neutropenia from the pivotal studies were very encouraging and the supporting clinical 
pharmacology and secondary efficacy data (incidence of febrile neutropenia, time to recovery of 
absolute neutrophil count, incidence and duration of very severe neutropenia and time to ANC 
recovery, reduction in delays of initiating chemotherapy, reduction in hospitalisation episodes 
associated with infection) added significant weight to the demonstration of efficacy of Lonquex. 
These data were supported by robust evidence of reduction of febrile neutropenia in breast 
cancer patients. All these effects were considered to provide clinically significant benefits to 
patients treated with Lonquex.  
Important unfavourable effects include musculoskeletal pain-related symptoms, allergic type 
reactions, pulmonary adverse effects (including interstitial lung disease, ARDS), 
thrombocytopenia, leukocytosis and blood ALP and LDH increases. These were considered well 
known for all G-CSF products and manageable and, overall, the safety profile of Lonquex was 
considered acceptable. On the other hand, potential increases in disease progression and in early 
mortality in the lung cancer study constitute important uncertainties. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The reduction in the duration of neutropenia and febrile neutropenia is considered to outweigh 
the established undesirable effects from the use of lipegfilgrastim, as these are considered 
acceptable and manageable, and the uncertainty regarding the potential increase in disease 
progression and mortality. The benefit-risk balance of Lonquex for the reduction in the duration 
of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients treated with cytotoxic 
chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and 
myelodysplastic syndromes) is considered positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Whilst the PD and efficacy data appear desirable for a new PEGylated G-CSF, the potential 
additional benefit should not be at the expense of safety. The uncertainty regarding an increased 
risk of disease progression and mortality with Lonquex compared to other available G-CSF 
products should be addressed via a relevant post-authorisation study.  
In order to refute any pro-malignant effects of Lonquex, the Applicant  should perform a post-
authorisation randomised 3 arm interventional safety study comparing Lonquex to placebo and 
Neulasta in patients with advanced NSCLC administered moderately myelosuppressive 
chemotherapy (FN risk<20%). Within the study and a defined follow-up period, disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 105/108 
 
  
  
progression and mortality should be evaluated in a standardised objective manner as would be 
performed in a classical oncology study. The objective of the study would not be to test a 
statistical hypothesis to prove robustly that the risk was no higher than for patients treated with 
placebo or Neulasta at a given time point but to collect comparative data including full details of 
disease progression, whether or not leading to death, for detailed clinical review. 
A minority of CHMP members expressed a divergent view on the benefit-risk balance of 
lipegfilgrastim. They considered that whilst the PD and efficacy data appear desirable for a new 
PEGylated G-CSF there are unresolved significant safety concerns which adversely impact the 
benefit-risk proposition for Lonquex. Given the clear biological rationale that G-CSF can promote 
the growth of sensitive tumour cells in vitro, thereby providing also a rationale for the adverse 
data, the nature and seriousness of the events observed in the lung cancer study XM22-04, and 
as the possible effects are directly opposed to the objectives of treating cancer patients with 
chemotherapeutic agents, the risks need to be better characterised and/or excluded before a 
marketing authorisation can be granted. While there is uncertainty as to whether this concern is 
applicable to all G-CSF products, the potential additional benefit of Lonquex should not be at the 
expense of patient safety and as the signal of increased risk of early mortality and progression 
cannot currently be adequately characterised or excluded within the broad indication of ‘patients 
with malignancy treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy (i.e. including patients with risk of FN 
<20%)it cannot be concluded that the benefit-risk of Lonquex for the proposed indication would 
be positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
majority decision that the risk-benefit balance of Lonquex in the reduction in the duration of 
neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in adult patients treated with cytotoxic 
chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and 
myelodysplastic syndromes) is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation 
holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 106/108 
 
  
  
 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk 
profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) 
milestone being reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at 
the same time. 
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
A post-authorisation safety study to further investigate the risks of disease 
progression and mortality associated with Lonquex in patients with 
malignancy treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy. Risks should be determined 
in relation to an established comparator and placebo and objective evaluation 
of disease progression should occur. A suitably sensitive clinical model should 
be selected in which to evaluate the above risks. Submission of final study 
report. 
Due date 
30/06/2017 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Divergent positions to the majority recommendation are appended to this report. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that lipegfilgrastim is qualified as a new active substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 107/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Aapro MS, Cameron DA, Pettengell R, Bohlius J, Crawford J, Ellis M, Kearney N, Lyman GH, Tjan-
Heijnen VC, Walewski J, Weber DC, Zielinski C; European Organisation for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) Guidelines 
Working Party. EORTC guidelines for the use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor to reduce 
the incidence of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia in adult patients with lymphomas and 
solid tumours. Eur J Cancer. 2006; 42(15): 2433-53 
Del Giglio A, Eniu A, Ganea-Motan D, Topuzov E, Lubenau H. XM02 is superior to placebo and 
equivalent to NeupogenTM in reducing the duration of severe neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia in cycle I in breast cancer patients receiving docetaxel/doxorubicin 
chemotherapy. BMC Cancer 2008; 8: 332 
Kuderer NM, Dale DC, Crawford J, Lyman GH. Impact of primary prophylaxis with granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor on febrile neutropenia and mortality in adult cancer patients receiving 
chemotherapy: a systematic review. J Clin Oncol. 2007; 25(21): 3158-67 
Assessment report  
EMA/371234/2013 
Page 108/108 
 
  
  
 
 
 
