Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan  
Summary of risk management plan for Lonsurf (trifluridine and tipiracil) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lonsurf. The RMP details important 
risks of Lonsurf, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Lonsurf’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Lonsurf’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Lonsurf should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Lonsurf  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including  the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Lonsurf ‘s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Lonsurf is authorised in combination with bevacizumab for the treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic colorectal  cancer (CRC) who have  received  two prior anticancer treatment regimens 
including  fluoropyrimidine-,  oxaliplatin-  and  irinotecan-based  chemotherapies,  anti-VEGF 
agents,  and/or  anti-EGFR  agents,  as  monotherapy  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
metastatic  colorectal  cancer    who  have  been  previously  treated  with,  or  are  not  considered 
candidates for, available therapies including fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based 
chemotherapies,  anti-VEGF  agents,  and  anti-EGFR  agents  and  the  treatment  of  adult  patients 
with metastatic gastric cancer including  adenocarcinoma of  the gastroesophageal  junction,  who 
have  been  previously  treated  with  at  least  two  prior  systemic  treatment  regimens  for  advanced 
disease (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains trifluridine and tipiracil (as hydrochloride) 
as the active substances and it is given by oral administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Lonsurf’s benefits can be found in Lonsurf’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lonsurf 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks 
Important  risks  of  Lonsurf,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Lonsurf’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
 
 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Lonsurf is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Lonsurf  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken.  Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks  are concerns for which there is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Lonsurf.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g. on the long- term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Safety in patients with moderate or severe renal 
impairment 
Important potential risks 
Developmental toxicity/Use in pregnant women 
Missing information 
Use in patients in a worse condition than ECOG 0-1. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risk: Safety in patients with moderate or severe renal 
impairment 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Clinical  data:  Based  on  a  population  PK  analysis,  the 
exposure of Lonsurf in patients with mild renal impairment 
(CLcr=  60  to  89  mL/min)  was  similar  to  those  in  patients 
with normal renal function (CLcr ≥ 90 mL/min). A higher 
exposure  of  Lonsurf  was  observed  in  moderate  renal 
impairment  (CLcr  =  30  to  59  mL/min).  Estimated  (CLcr) 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Safety in patients with moderate or severe renal 
impairment 
was  a  significant  covariate  for  Oral  clearance  (CL/F)  in 
both final models of trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride. 
The mean relative ratio of Area Under the Curve (AUC) in 
patients  with  mild  (n=38)  and  moderate  (n=16)  renal 
to  patients  with  normal  renal 
impairment  compared 
function  (n=84)  were  1.31  and  1.43  for  trifluridine, 
respectively,  and 1.34 and 1.65 for tipiracil hydrochloride, 
respectively.  
During mCRC clinical development it has been shown that 
patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  at  baseline  had  a 
higher  incidence  of  ≥  Grade  3  Aes  and  serious  Aes,  and 
dose  delays  and  reductions  compared  to  patients  with 
normal  renal  function  or  mild  renal  impairment.  In  mGC 
clinical  development  there  was  no  marked  difference 
between  the  normal  renal  function,  the  mild  and  the 
moderate  renal  impairment  subgroups  (based  on  baseline 
CLcr)  with  respect  to  overall  incidence  of  Aes,  ≥  Grade  3 
Aes  or  serious  Aes,  dose  delays  and  reductions.  However, 
several  of  the most  frequently  reported  Aes increased  with 
the  degree  of  renal  impairment  (anaemia,  neutropenia, 
decreased  appetite  and  diarrhoea)  and  patients  with 
moderate impairment had higher incidences of Grade 3 and 
4  abnormalities  for  haemoglobin  and  leukocytes  compared 
to  normal  and  mild  impairment  subgroups.  In  a  dedicated 
phase 1, open-label study conducted to evaluate the safety, 
tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of trifluridine-tipiracil in 
patients with advanced solid tumors and varying degrees of 
renal  impairment  (TO-TAS-102-107),  based  on  PK  and 
safety  data  from  the  normal  renal  function,  mild  and 
moderate  renal  impairment  cohorts,  a  lower  starting  dose 
was selected for the severe renal impairment cohort (dose of 
20 mg/m2 BID) and one dose reduction was allowed to 15 
mg/m2 BID in case of toxicities requiring a dose reduction. 
Renal  function  impairment  had  no  significant  effect  on 
Cmax  and  AUCs  of 
trifluridine  following  multiple 
administration  of  trifluridine-tipiracil,  although  tipiracil 
hydrochloride exposure was increased in patients with renal 
impairment.  Consistent  with  current  knowledge  on  safety 
profile  of  trifluridine-tipiracil  moderate  renal  impairment 
patients  tended  to  show  a  higher  incidence  of  ≥  Grade  3 
adverse  events  and  serious  adverse  events  were  more 
frequent  in  mild  and  moderate  renal  impairment  patients 
compared  to  normal  renal  function  cohort.  However,  the 
Important Identified Risk: Safety in patients with moderate or severe renal 
impairment 
safety profile in patients with severe renal impairment who 
received 20 mg/m2/dose twice daily did not show important 
changes  compared to normal  renal  function  and mild  renal 
impairment cohorts demonstrating that a dose of 20 mg/m2 
twice  daily  is  appropriate  and  tolerable  for  this  population 
of patients. Patients with end stage renal disease (CLcr <15 
mL/min or patients requiring dialysis) were not enrolled in 
the study. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not applicable  
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.2 , 4.4  
Legal status: Prescription only medicine. Lonsurf 
should only be prescribed by a qualified physician 
experienced in treating cancer patients with anti-
neoplastic medicinal products. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Developmental toxicity/ Use in pregnant women  
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Non-clinical  data:  Based  on  finding  in  animals,  Lonsurf 
has  been  shown  to  cause  embryo-foetal  lethality  and 
embryo-foetal toxicity in pregnant rats when given at dose 
levels lower than the clinical exposure.  
Pregnancy,  women  of  childbearing  potential  without 
contraception were not enrolled in the clinical development 
of Lonsurf. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not applicable 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6  
PL section 2  
Legal status: Prescription only medicine. Lonsurf 
should only be prescribed by a qualified physician 
experienced in treating cancer patients with anti-
neoplastic medicinal products. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use in patients in a worse condition than ECOG 0-1 
Risk minimisation measures 
 No risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study DIM-95005-001 (PROMETCO) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Lonsurf. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
DIM-95005-001  (PROMETCO)  –  A  Real  World  Evidence  Prospective  Cohort  Study  in  the 
Management of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: A Clinical and Patient Perspective 
Purpose of the study:  
Rational: The use of Lonsurf in cancer patients with an ECOG performance status of ≥2 has not 
been studied. 
Study objectives: To provide real world data on treatment patterns, associated effectiveness and 
safety,  and  impact  on  patients  with  mCRC  after  two  disease  progressions.  The  study  might 
further characterise the safety profile of Lonsurf with respect to the area of missing information 
“Use in patients in worse condition than ECOG 0-1”. 
 
