PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. The 
RMP details important risks of lopinavir/ritonavir, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about lopinavir/ritonavir's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir  Mylan's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package 
leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be 
used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  lopinavir/ritonavir  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is authorised for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infected adults, adolescents and children above the age of 2 years and the choice of 
lopinavir/ritonavir  to  treat  protease  inhibitor  experienced  HIV-1  infected  patients  should  be 
based  on  individual  viral  resistance  testing  and  treatment  history  of  patients.  It  contains 
lopinavir/ritonavir as the active substance, and it is given by oral route of administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan's benefits can be found 
in Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan's EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks, 
are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of lopinavir/ritonavir Mylan is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important  risks  of  Lopinavir/Ritonavir  Mylan  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered by patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of lopinavir/ritonavir 
Mylan. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers  to  information on  the safety of  the  medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Table Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
• 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) 
manifesting as autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' 
disease). 
•  Lipid elevations. 
Important potential risks 
•  QT prolongation with supratherapeutic doses. 
•  PR prolongation at therapeutic dosing. 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. 
 
