EMA/783146/2015 
EMEA/H/C/004025 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
lopinavir / ritonavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. It 
explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its 
conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Lopinavir/Ritonavir 
Mylan. 
For practical information about using Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, patients should read the package 
leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and what is it used for? 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is used in combination with other medicines to treat patients over two years 
of age who are infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan contains the active 
substances lopinavir and ritonavir.  
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU), called Kaletra. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan used? 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by 
a doctor who is experienced in managing HIV infection. It is available as tablets (100 mg lopinavir and 
25 mg ritonavir; 200 mg lopinavir and 50 mg ritonavir). 
In adults and adolescents (aged 12 years and over), the recommended dose of Lopinavir/Ritonavir 
Mylan is two 200/50-mg tablets twice a day. This dose is also suitable for children (aged between two 
and 12 years) provided that they weigh more than 40 kg or have a body surface area (calculated using 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the child’s height and weight) over 1.4 m2. The dose for smaller children depends on the child’s body 
surface area and the other medicines that the child is taking. 
For adults (aged 18 years or over) who are infected with HIV that is likely to respond to medicines in 
the same class as Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan (protease inhibitors) the doctor may prescribe the full 
daily dose of four 200/50-mg tablets as a single dose. When deciding to use once-daily dosing, the 
doctor should consider the fact that it might not be as effective as twice-daily dosing at keeping HIV 
levels low in the long term and may increase the risk of diarrhoea. For more information, see the 
package leaflet.  
How does Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan work? 
The active substances in this medicine, lopinavir and ritonavir, are protease inhibitors: they block an 
enzyme called protease that is involved in the replication of HIV. When the enzyme is blocked, the 
virus does not replicate normally, slowing down the spread of infection. In Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, 
lopinavir provides the activity and ritonavir is used as a ‘booster’ that slows down the rate at which 
lopinavir is broken down by the liver. This increases the levels of lopinavir in the blood, allowing a 
lower dose of lopinavir to be used for the same antiviral effect. 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, taken with other HIV medicines, reduces HIV in the blood and keeps the 
virus at a low level. It does not cure HIV infection, but it can hold off damage to the immune system 
and avoid the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan been studied? 
Because Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests 
to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Kaletra. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan? 
Because Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Kaletra. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Kaletra, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan be approved for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is used as safely 
as possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, including the appropriate 
precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
EMA/783146/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan on 14 January 2016. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan can be found on the 
Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment 
reports. For more information about treatment with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, read the package leaflet 
(also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2016. 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
EMA/783146/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
