ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 25 mg of lorlatinib.
Excipient with known effect
Each film-coated tablet contains 1.58 mg of lactose monohydrate.
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of lorlatinib.
Excipient with known effect
Each film-coated tablet contains 4.20 mg of lactose monohydrate.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
Round (8 mm) light pink immediate release film-coated tablet, debossed with “Pfizer” on one side and 
“25” and “LLN” on the other side.
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
Oval (8.5 × 17 mm) dark pink immediate release film-coated tablet, debossed with “Pfizer” on 
one side and “LLN 100” on the other side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Lorviqua as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously not treated with an 
ALK inhibitor. 
2
Lorviqua as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with ALK-positive advanced 
NSCLC whose disease has progressed after:


alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy; or
crizotinib and at least one other ALK TKI.  
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with lorlatinib should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products.
Detection of ALK-positive NSCLC is necessary for selection of patients for treatment with lorlatinib 
because these are the only patients for whom benefit has been shown. Assessment for ALK-positive 
NSCLC should be performed by laboratories with demonstrated proficiency in the specific technology 
being utilised. Improper assay performance can lead to unreliable test results.
Posology
The recommended dose is 100 mg lorlatinib taken orally once daily.
Duration of treatment
Treatment with lorlatinib should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Delayed or missed doses
If a dose of Lorviqua is missed, then it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers unless it is 
less than 4 hours before the next dose, in which case the patient should not take the missed dose. 
Patients should not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose.
Dose modifications
Dosing interruption or dose reduction may be required based on individual safety and tolerability. 
Lorlatinib dose reduction levels are summarised below:


First dose reduction: 75 mg taken orally once daily
Second dose reduction: 50 mg taken orally once daily
Lorlatinib should be permanently discontinued if the patient is unable to tolerate the 50 mg dose taken 
orally once daily.
Dose modification recommendations for toxicities and for patients who develop atrioventricular (AV) 
block are provided in Table 1.
Table 1. Recommended lorlatinib dose modifications for adverse reactions
Adverse reactiona
Hypercholesterolaemia or hypertriglyceridaemia 
Mild hypercholesterolaemia
Lorlatinib dosing
(cholesterol between ULN and 300 mg/dL 
or between ULN and 7.75 mmol/L)
OR
Moderate hypercholesterolaemia
(cholesterol between 301 and 400 mg/dL 
or between 7.76 and 10.34 mmol/L)
OR
Introduce or modify lipid-lowering therapyb in 
accordance with respective prescribing information; 
continue lorlatinib at same dose.
3
Table 1. Recommended lorlatinib dose modifications for adverse reactions
Adverse reactiona
Mild hypertriglyceridaemia
Lorlatinib dosing
(triglycerides between 150 and 300 mg/dL 
or 1.71 and 3.42 mmol/L)
OR
Moderate hypertriglyceridaemia
(triglycerides between 301 and 500 mg/dL 
or 3.43 and 5.7 mmol/L)
Severe hypercholesterolaemia
(cholesterol between 401 and 500 mg/dL 
or between 10.35 and 12.92 mmol/L)
OR
Severe hypertriglyceridaemia
(triglycerides between 501 and 
1,000 mg/dL or 5.71 and 11.4 mmol/L)
Life-threatening hypercholesterolaemia
(cholesterol over 500 mg/dL or over 
12.92 mmol/L)
OR
Life-threatening hypertriglyceridaemia
(triglycerides over 1,000 mg/dL or over 
11.4 mmol/L)
Introduce the use of lipid-lowering therapy b; if 
currently on lipid-lowering therapy, increase the dose 
of this therapyb in accordance with respective 
prescribing information; or change to a new 
lipid-lowering therapyb. Continue lorlatinib at the 
same dose without interruption. 
Introduce the use of lipid-lowering therapyb or 
increase the dose of this therapyb in accordance with 
respective prescribing information or change to a new 
lipid-lowering therapyb. Withhold lorlatinib until 
recovery of hypercholesterolaemia and/or 
hypertriglyceridaemia to moderate or mild severity 
grade.
Re-challenge at same lorlatinib dose while maximising 
lipid-lowering therapyb in accordance with respective 
prescribing information.
If severe hypercholesterolaemia and/or 
hypertriglyceridaemia recur despite maximal 
lipid-lowering therapyb in accordance with respective 
prescribing information, reduce lorlatinib by 1 dose 
level.
Central nervous system (CNS) effects (comprises psychotic effects and changes in cognition, 
mood, mental status or speech)
Grade 2: Moderate
OR 
Grade 3: Severe 
Grade 4: Life-threatening/Urgent 
intervention indicated
Lipase/Amylase increase 
Grade 3: Severe
OR
Grade 4: Life-threatening/Urgent 
intervention indicated
Withhold dose until toxicity is less than or equal to 
Grade 1. Then resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced dose 
level. 
Permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
Withhold lorlatinib until lipase or amylase returns to 
baseline. Then resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced dose 
level.
4
Table 1. Recommended lorlatinib dose modifications for adverse reactions
Adverse reactiona
Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis 
Lorlatinib dosing
Grade 1: Mild
OR 
Grade 2: Moderate
Grade 3: Severe
OR
Withhold lorlatinib until symptoms have returned to 
baseline and consider initiating corticosteroids. 
Resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced dose level.
Permanently discontinue lorlatinib if ILD/pneumonitis 
recurs or fails to recover after 6 weeks of lorlatinib
hold and steroid treatment.
Permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
Grade 4: Life-threatening/Urgent 
intervention indicated
PR interval prolongation/Atrioventricular (AV) block
First degree AV block:
Asymptomatic
First degree AV block:
Symptomatic 
Second degree AV block
Asymptomatic 
Second degree AV block
Symptomatic 
Complete AV block
Continue lorlatinib at the same dose without 
interruption. Consider effects of concomitant 
medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte 
imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Monitor 
ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block 
closely.
Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant 
medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte 
imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Monitor 
ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block 
closely. If symptoms resolve, resume lorlatinib at 
1 reduced dose level.
Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant 
medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte 
imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Monitor 
ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block 
closely. If subsequent ECG does not show second 
degree AV block, resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced dose 
level.
Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant 
medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte 
imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Refer for 
cardiac observation and monitoring. Consider 
pacemaker placement if symptomatic AV block 
persists. If symptoms and the second-degree AV block 
resolve or if patients revert to asymptomatic 
first-degree AV block, resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced 
dose level.
Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant 
medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte 
imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Refer for 
cardiac observation and monitoring. Pacemaker 
placement may be indicated for severe symptoms 
associated with AV block. If AV block does not 
resolve, placement of a permanent pacemaker may be 
considered. 
If pacemaker placed, resume lorlatinib at full dose. If 
no pacemaker placed, resume lorlatinib at 1 reduced 
5
Table 1. Recommended lorlatinib dose modifications for adverse reactions
Adverse reactiona
Lorlatinib dosing
dose level only when symptoms resolve, and
PR interval is less than 200 msec.
Hypertension
Grade 3 (SBP greater than or equal to 
160 mmHg or DBP greater than or equal to 
100 mmHg; medical intervention indicated; 
more than one antihypertensive drug, or 
more intensive therapy than previously used 
indicated)
Grade 4 (Life-threatening consequences, 
urgent intervention indicated)
Hyperglycaemia
Grade 3 
OR
Withhold lorlatinib until hypertension has recovered to 
Grade 1 or less (SBP less than 140 mmHg and DBP 
less than 90 mmHg), then resume lorlatinib at the 
same dose. 
If Grade 3 hypertension recurs, withhold lorlatinib
until recovery to Grade 1 or less, and resume at a 
reduced dose.
If adequate hypertension control cannot be achieved 
with optimal medical management, permanently 
discontinue lorlatinib.
Withhold lorlatinib until recovery to Grade 1 or less, 
and resume at a reduced dose or permanently 
discontinue lorlatinib.
If Grade 4 hypertension recurs, permanently 
discontinue lorlatinib.
Withhold lorlatinib until hyperglycaemia is adequately 
controlled, then resume lorlatinib at the next lower 
dosage.
Grade 4 (Persistent hyperglycaemia greater 
than 250 mg/dL despite optimal 
anti-hyperglycaemic therapy)
If adequate hyperglycaemic control cannot be 
achieved with optimal medical management, 
permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
Other adverse reactions
Grade 1: Mild
OR
Grade 2: Moderate
Greater than or equal to Grade 3: Severe
Consider no dose modification or reduce by 1 dose 
level, as clinically indicated. 
Withhold lorlatinib until symptoms resolve to less than 
or equal to Grade 2 or baseline. Then resume lorlatinib 
at 1 reduced dose level.
Abbreviations: CNS=central nervous system; CTCAE=Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events;
DBP=diastolic blood pressure; ECG=electrocardiogram; HMG CoA=3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A; 
NCI=National Cancer Institute; SBP=systolic blood pressure; ULN=upper limit of normal.
a Grade categories are based on NCI CTCAE classifications.
b Lipid-lowering therapy may include: HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, nicotinic acid, fibric acid derivatives, or 
ethyl esters of omega-3 fatty acids.
Strong cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 3A4/5 inhibitors
Concurrent use of lorlatinib with medicinal products that are strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors and 
grapefruit juice products may increase lorlatinib plasma concentrations. An alternative concomitant 
medicinal product with less potential to inhibit CYP3A4/5 should be considered (see section 4.5). If a 
strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor must be co-administered, the starting lorlatinib dose of 100 mg once daily 
should be reduced to once daily 75 mg dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). If concurrent use of the strong 
CYP3A4/5 inhibitor is discontinued, lorlatinib should be resumed at the dose used prior to the 
initiation of the strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor and after a washout period of 3 to 5 half-lives of the strong 
CYP3A4/5 inhibitor.
6
Special populations
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
Due to the limited data on this population, no dose recommendation can be made for patients aged 
65 years and older (see section 5.2).  
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with normal renal function and mild or moderate renal 
impairment [absolute estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR): ≥ 30 mL/min]. A reduced dose of 
lorlatinib is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (absolute eGFR < 30 mL/min), 
e.g. a once daily starting dose of 75 mg taken orally (see section 5.2). No information is available for 
patients on renal dialysis.
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustments are recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment. No information is 
available for lorlatinib in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. Therefore, lorlatinib is 
not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of lorlatinib in paediatric patients below 18 years have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Lorviqua is for oral use. 
Patients should be encouraged to take their dose of lorlatinib at approximately the same time each day
with or without food (see section 5.2). The tablets should be swallowed whole (tablets should not be 
chewed, crushed or split prior to swallowing). No tablet should be ingested if it is broken, cracked, or 
otherwise not intact.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to lorlatinib or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4/5 inducers (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Hyperlipidaemia
The use of lorlatinib has been associated with increases in serum cholesterol and triglycerides (see 
section 4.8). Median time of occurrence of severe increase in serum cholesterol and triglycerides is 
104 days (range: 29 to 518 days) and 120 days (range: 15 to 780 days), respectively. Serum 
cholesterol and triglycerides should be monitored before initiation of lorlatinib; 2, 4 and 8 weeks after 
initiating lorlatinib; and regularly thereafter. Initiate or increase the dose of lipid-lowering medicinal 
products, if indicated (see section 4.2).
Central nervous system effects
Central nervous system (CNS) effects have been observed in patients receiving lorlatinib, including 
psychotic effects and changes in cognitive function, mood, mental status or speech (see section 4.8). 
Dose modification or discontinuation may be required for those patients who develop CNS effects (see 
section 4.2).
7
Atrioventricular block
Lorlatinib was studied in a population of patients that excluded those with second-degree or 
third-degree AV block (unless paced) or any AV block with PR interval > 220 msec. PR interval 
prolongation and AV block have been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib (see section 5.2).
Monitor electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to initiating lorlatinib and monthly thereafter, particularly in 
patients with predisposing conditions to the occurrence of clinically significant cardiac events. Dose 
modification may be required for those patients who develop AV block (see section 4.2).
Left ventricular ejection fraction decrease
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decrease has been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib
who had baseline and at least one follow-up LVEF assessment. Based on the available clinical study
data, it is not possible to determine a causal relationship between effects on changes in cardiac 
contractility and lorlatinib. In patients with cardiac risk factors and those with conditions that can 
affect LVEF, cardiac monitoring, including LVEF assessment at baseline and during treatment, should 
be considered. In patients who develop relevant cardiac signs/symptoms during treatment, cardiac 
monitoring, including LVEF assessment, should be considered.
Lipase and amylase increase
Elevations of lipase and/or amylase have occurred in patients receiving lorlatinib (see section 4.8). 
Median time of occurrence of increase in serum lipase and amylase is 141 days (range: 1 to 1091 days) 
and 138 days (range: 1 to 1112 days), respectively. Risk of pancreatitis should be considered in 
patients receiving lorlatinib due to concomitant hypertriglyceridemia and/or a potential intrinsic 
mechanism. Patients should be monitored for lipase and amylase elevations prior to the start of 
lorlatinib treatment and regularly thereafter as clinically indicated (see section 4.2).
Interstitial lung disease/Pneumonitis
Severe or life-threatening pulmonary adverse reactions consistent with ILD/pneumonitis have 
occurred with lorlatinib (see section 4.8). Any patient who presents with worsening of respiratory 
symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis (e.g. dyspnoea, cough and fever) should be promptly 
evaluated for ILD/pneumonitis. Lorlatinib should be withheld and/or permanently discontinued based 
on severity (see section 4.2).
Hypertension
Hypertension has been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib (see section 4.8). Blood pressure should 
be controlled prior to initiation of lorlatinib. Blood pressure should be monitored after 2 weeks and at 
least monthly thereafter during treatment with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib should be withheld and resumed at 
a reduced dose or permanently discontinued based on severity (see section 4.2).
Hyperglycaemia
Hyperglycaemia has occurred in patients receiving lorlatinib (see section 4.8). Fasting serum glucose 
should be assessed prior to initiation of lorlatinib and monitored periodically thereafter according to 
national guidelines. Lorlatinib should be withheld and resumed at a reduced dose or permanently 
discontinued based on severity (see section 4.2).
Drug-drug interactions
In a study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant use of lorlatinib and rifampin, a strong 
CYP3A4/5 inducer, was associated with increases of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) with no increase of total bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase (see section 4.5).
Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). No 
8
clinically meaningful changes in liver function tests were seen in healthy subjects after receiving a 
combination of lorlatinib with the moderate CYP3A4/5 inducer modafinil (see section 4.5).
Concurrent administration of lorlatinib with CYP3A4/5 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices, 
including but not limited to alfentanil, ciclosporin, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, hormonal 
contraceptives, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus and tacrolimus, should be avoided since the 
concentration of these medicinal products may be reduced by lorlatinib (see section 4.5).
Fertility and pregnancy
During treatment with lorlatinib and for at least 14 weeks after the final dose, male patients with 
female partners of childbearing potential must use effective contraception, including a condom, and 
male patients with pregnant partners must use condoms (see section 4.6). Male fertility may be 
compromised during treatment with lorlatinib (see section 5.3). Men should seek advice on effective 
fertility preservation before treatment. Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid 
becoming pregnant while receiving lorlatinib. A highly effective non-hormonal method of 
contraception is required for female patients during treatment with lorlatinib, because lorlatinib can 
render hormonal contraceptives ineffective (see sections 4.5 and 4.6). If a hormonal method of 
contraception is unavoidable, then a condom must be used in combination with the hormonal method. 
Effective contraception must be continued for at least 35 days after completing therapy (see 
section 4.6). It is not known whether lorlatinib affects female fertility. 
Lactose intolerance
This medicinal product contains lactose as an excipient. Patients with rare hereditary problems of 
galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency, or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this 
medicinal product.
Dietary sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 25 mg or 100 mg tablet. 
Patients on low sodium diets should be informed that this product is essentially “sodium-free”.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Pharmacokinetic interactions
In vitro data indicate that lorlatinib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 and uridine 
diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A4, with minor contributions from CYP2C8, CYP2C19, 
CYP3A5 and UGT1A3.
Effect of medicinal products on lorlatinib
CYP3A4/5 inducers
Rifampin, a strong inducer of CYP3A4/5, administered at oral doses of 600 mg once daily for 12 days, 
reduced the mean lorlatinib area under curve (AUCinf) by 85% and Cmax by 76% of a single 100 mg 
oral dose of lorlatinib in healthy volunteers; increases in AST and ALT were also observed.
Concomitant administration of lorlatinib with strong CYP3A4/5 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, 
carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin and St. John’s wort) may decrease lorlatinib 
plasma concentrations. The use of a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer with lorlatinib is contraindicated (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). No clinically meaningful changes in liver function test results were seen after 
administration of the combination of a single 100 mg oral dose of lorlatinib with the moderate 
CYP3A4/5 inducer, modafinil (400 mg once daily for 19 days) in healthy volunteers. Concomitant use 
of modafinil did not have a clinically meaningful effect on lorlatinib pharmacokinetics.
9
CYP3A4/5 inhibitors
Itraconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4/5, administered at oral doses of 200 mg once daily for 
5 days, increased the mean lorlatinib AUCinf by 42% and Cmax by 24% of a single 100 mg oral dose of 
lorlatinib in healthy volunteers. Concomitant administration of lorlatinib with strong CYP3A4/5 
inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir, cobicistat, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, troleandomycin, 
voriconazole, ritonavir, paritaprevir in combination with ritonavir and ombitasvir and/or dasabuvir, 
and ritonavir in combination with either elvitegravir, indinavir, lopinavir or tipranavir) may increase 
lorlatinib plasma concentrations. Grapefruit products may also increase lorlatinib plasma 
concentrations and should be avoided. An alternative concomitant medicinal product with less 
potential to inhibit CYP3A4/5 should be considered. If a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor must be 
concomitantly administered, a dose reduction of lorlatinib is recommended (see section 4.2). 
Effect of lorlatinib on other medicinal products
CYP3A4/5 substrates
In vitro studies indicated that lorlatinib is a time-dependent inhibitor as well as an inducer of 
CYP3A4/5. Lorlatinib 150 mg orally once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and Cmax of a single oral 
2 mg dose of midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) by 61% by 50%, respectively; hence, 
lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A inducer. Thus, concurrent administration of lorlatinib with CYP3A4/5 
substrates with narrow therapeutic indices, including but not limited to alfentanil, ciclosporin, 
dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptives, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus and 
tacrolimus, should be avoided since the concentration of these medicinal products may be reduced by 
lorlatinib (see section 4.4).
CYP2B6 substrates
Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and Cmax of a single oral 100 mg dose of 
bupropion (a combined CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 substrate) by 49.5% and 53%, respectively. Thus, 
lorlatinib is a weak inducer of CYP2B6, and no dose adjustment is necessary when lorlatinib is used in 
combination with medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by CYP2B6.
CYP2C9 substrates
Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and Cmax of a single oral 500 mg dose of 
tolbutamide (a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate) by 43% and 15%, respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a weak 
inducer of CYP2C9, and no dose adjustment is required for medicinal products that are mainly 
metabolised by CYP2C9. However, patients should be monitored in case of concomitant treatment 
with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic indices metabolised by CYP2C9 (e.g. coumarin 
anticoagulants).
UGT substrates
Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and Cmax of a single oral 500 mg dose of 
acetaminophen (a UGT, SULT and CYP1A2, 2A6, 2D6, and 3A4 substrate) by 45% and 28%, 
respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a weak inducer of UGT, and no dose adjustment is required for 
medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by UGT. However, patients should be monitored in 
case of concomitant treatment with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic indices metabolised by 
UGT.
P-glycoprotein substrates
Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and Cmax of a single oral dose of 60 mg
fexofenadine [a sensitive P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate] by 67% and 63%, respectively. Thus, 
lorlatinib is a moderate inducer of P-gp. Medicinal products that are P-gp substrates with narrow 
10
therapeutic indices (e.g. digoxin, dabigatran etexilate) should be used with caution in combination 
with lorlatinib due to the likelihood of reduced plasma concentrations of these substrates.
In vitro inhibition and induction studies of other CYP enzymes
In vitro, lorlatinib has a low potential to cause drug-drug interactions by induction of CYP1A2.
In vitro studies with drug transporters other than P-gp
In vitro studies indicated that lorlatinib may have the potential to inhibit BCRP (gastrointestinal tract), 
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, MATE1 and OAT3 at clinically relevant concentrations. Lorlatinib 
should be used with caution in combination with substrates of BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, 
MATE1 and OAT3 as clinically relevant changes in the plasma exposure of these substrates cannot be 
ruled out. 
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving
lorlatinib. A highly effective non-hormonal method of contraception is required for female patients 
during treatment with lorlatinib, because lorlatinib can render hormonal contraceptives ineffective (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.5). If a hormonal method of contraception is unavoidable, then a condom must be 
used in combination with the hormonal method. Effective contraception must be continued for at least 
35 days after completing therapy.
During treatment with lorlatinib and for at least 14 weeks after the final dose, male patients with 
female partners of childbearing potential must use effective contraception, including a condom, and 
male patients with pregnant partners must use condoms.
Pregnancy
Studies in animals have shown embryo-foetal toxicity (see section 5.3). There are no data from the use 
of lorlatinib in pregnant women. Lorlatinib may cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant 
woman.
Lorlatinib is not recommended during pregnancy or for women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether lorlatinib and its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded.
Lorlatinib should not be used during breast-feeding. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with lorlatinib and for 7 days after the final dose.
Fertility
Based on non-clinical safety findings, male fertility may be compromised during treatment with 
lorlatinib (see section 5.3). It is not known whether lorlatinib affects female fertility. Men should seek 
advice on effective fertility preservation before treatment.
11
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Lorlatinib has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Caution should be 
exercised when driving or operating machines as patients may experience CNS effects (see 
section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were hypercholesterolaemia (81.1%), 
hypertriglyceridaemia (67.2%), oedema (55.7%), peripheral neuropathy (43.7%), weight increased 
(30.9%), cognitive effects (27.7%), fatigue (27.3%), arthralgia (23.5%), diarrhoea (22.9%) and mood 
effects (21.0%). 
Serious adverse reactions were reported in 7.4% of patients receiving lorlatinib. The most frequent 
serious adverse drug reactions were cognitive effects and pneumonitis.
Dose reductions due to adverse reactions occurred in 20.0% of patients receiving lorlatinib. The most 
common adverse reactions that led to dose reductions were oedema and peripheral neuropathy. 
Permanent treatment discontinuation associated with adverse reactions occurred in 3.2% of patients 
receiving lorlatinib. The most frequent adverse reactions that led to permanent discontinuations were 
cognitive effects peripheral neuropathy, pneumonitis and psychotic effects.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 2 presents adverse reactions occurring in 476 adult patients treated with lorlatinib 100 mg once 
daily with advanced NSCLC from Study A (N=327) and CROWN study (N=149).
The adverse reactions listed in Table 2 are presented by system organ class and frequency categories, 
defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000). Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing medical seriousness.
Table 2. Adverse reactions
System organ class and adverse 
reaction
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Anaemia
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Hypercholesterolaemiaa
Hypertriglyceridaemiab
Hyperglycaemia
Psychiatric disorders
Mood effectsc
Psychotic effectsd
Mental status changes 
Nervous system disorders
Cognitive effectse
Peripheral neuropathyf
Headache
Speech effectsg
Eye disorders
Vision disorderh
Vascular disorders
Hypertension
Frequency category
All Grades
%
Grades 3-4
%
Very common
Very common
Very common
Common
Very common
Common
Common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Common
Very common
Very common
12
18.5
81.1
67.2
9.2
21.0
6.5
2.0
27.7
43.7
17.9
8.2
17.2
13.0
4.2
18.3
19.3
3.2
1.5
0.4
1.7
2.9
2.7
0.6
0.6
0.2
6.1 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders
Pneumonitisi
Gastrointestinal disorders
Diarrhoea
Nausea
Constipation 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Rashj
Renal and urinary disorders
Proteinuria
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders
Arthralgia
Myalgiak
General disorders and administration site 
conditions
Oedemal
Fatiguem
Investigations
Weight increased
Lipase increased
Amylase increased
Electrocardiogram PR prolongation
Common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Very common
Uncommon
1.9
22.9
17.6
17.4
13.7
3.4
23.5
19.3
55.7
27.3
30.9
12.4
11.3
0.8
0.6
1.5
0.6
0.2
0.2
0.4
0.8
0.2
2.7
1.3
10.1
6.9
2.7
0
Adverse reactions that represent the same medical concept or condition were grouped together and reported as 
a single adverse reaction in the table above. Terms actually reported in the studies and contributing to the 
relevant adverse reaction are indicated in parentheses, as listed below.
a Hypercholesterolaemia (including blood cholesterol increased, hypercholesterolaemia).
b Hypertriglyceridaemia (including blood triglycerides increased, hypertriglyceridaemia).
c Mood effects (including affective disorder, affect lability, aggression, agitation, anger, anxiety, 
bipolar I disorder, depressed mood, depression, depressive symptom, euphoric mood, irritability, mania, 
mood altered, mood swings, panic attack, personality change, stress).
d Psychotic effects (including auditory hallucination, hallucination, visual hallucination).
e Cognitive effects (including events from SOC Nervous system disorders: amnesia, cognitive disorder, 
dementia, disturbance in attention, memory impairment, mental impairment; and also including events 
from SOC Psychiatric disorders: attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, confusional state, delirium, 
disorientation, reading disorder). Within these effects, terms from SOC Nervous system disorders were 
more frequently reported than terms from SOC Psychiatric disorder.
Peripheral neuropathy (including burning sensation, dysaesthesia, formication, gait disturbance, 
hypoaesthesia, motor dysfunction, muscular weakness, neuralgia, neuropathy peripheral, neurotoxicity, 
paraesthesia, peripheral motor neuropathy, peripheral sensory neuropathy, peroneal nerve palsy, sensory 
disturbance).
f
g Speech effects (dysarthria, slow speech, speech disorder).
h Vision disorder (including diplopia, photophobia, photopsia, vision blurred, visual acuity reduced, visual 
impairment, vitreous floaters).
i
Pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease, lung opacity, pneumonitis).
j Rash (including dermatitis acneiform, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, rash).
k Myalgia (including musculoskeletal pain, myalgia).
l Oedema (including generalised oedema, oedema, oedema peripheral, peripheral swelling, swelling).
m Fatigue (including asthenia, fatigue).
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hypercholesterolaemia/hypertriglyceridaemia
Adverse reactions of increase in serum cholesterol or triglycerides were reported in 81.1% and 67.2% 
of patients, respectively. Of those, mild or moderate adverse reactions of hypercholesterolaemia or 
hypertriglyceridaemia occurred in 62.8% and 47.9% of patients, respectively (see section 4.4). The 
median time to onset for both hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia was 15 days 
13
(hypercholesterolaemia range: 1 to 784 days; hypertriglyceridaemia range: 1 to 796 days). The median 
duration of hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia was 451 and 427 days, respectively.
Central nervous system effects
CNS adverse reactions were primarily cognitive effects (27.7%), mood effects (21.0%), speech effects 
(8.2%) and psychotic effects (6.5%), and were generally mild, transient, and reversible spontaneously 
upon dose delay and/or dose reduction (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). The most frequent cognitive effect of 
any grade was memory impairment (11.3%), and the most frequent Grade 3 or 4 reactions were 
confusional state and cognitive disorder (1.7% and 0.8%, respectively). The most frequent mood effect 
of any grade was anxiety (6.5%), and the most frequent Grade 3 and 4 reactions were irritability and 
depression (0.8% and 0.4%, respectively). The most frequent speech effect of any grade was 
dysarthria (4.0%), and the Grade 3 or 4 reactions were dysarthria, slow speech and speech disorder 
(0.2% each). The most frequent psychotic effect of any grade was hallucination (3.7%) and the most 
frequent Grade 3 or 4 reactions were hallucination, hallucination auditory and hallucination visual 
(0.3% each). Median time to onset for cognitive, mood, speech and psychotic effects was 109, 43, 49 
and 23 days, respectively. Median duration of cognitive, mood, speech and psychotic effects was 223, 
143, 147 and 74 days, respectively.
Hypertension
Adverse reactions of hypertension were reported in 13% of patients from Study A and CROWN 
(B7461006). Of those, mild or moderate adverse reactions of hypertension occurred in 6.9% of 
patients (see section 4.4). The median time to onset of hypertension was 208 days (range: 1 to 
1028 days). The median duration of hypertension was 219 days.
Hyperglycaemia
Adverse reactions of hyperglycaemia were reported in 9.2% of patients from Study A and CROWN 
(B7461006). Of those, mild or moderate adverse reactions of hyperglycaemia occurred in 6.1% of
patients (see section 4.4). The median time to onset of hyperglycaemia was 145 days (range: 1 to 
1058 days). The median duration of hyperglycaemia was 113 days.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Treatment of overdose with the medicinal product consists of general supportive measures. Given the 
dose-dependent effect on PR interval, ECG monitoring is recommended. There is no antidote for 
lorlatinib.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: anti-neoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01ED05
Mechanism of action
Lorlatinib is a selective, adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive inhibitor of ALK and c-ros 
oncogene 1 (ROS1) tyrosine kinases.
In non-clinical studies, lorlatinib inhibited catalytic activities of non-mutated ALK and clinically 
relevant ALK mutant kinases in recombinant enzyme and cell-based assays. Lorlatinib demonstrated 
14
marked antitumour activity in mice bearing tumour xenografts that express echinoderm 
microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4) fusions with ALK variant 1 (v1), including ALK 
mutations L1196M, G1269A, G1202R, and I1171T. Two of these ALK mutants, G1202R and I1171T, 
are known to confer resistance to alectinib, brigatinib, ceritinib, and crizotinib. Lorlatinib was also 
capable of penetrating the blood-brain barrier. Lorlatinib demonstrated activity in mice bearing 
orthotopic EML4-ALK or EML4-ALKL1196M brain tumour implants.
Clinical efficacy
Previously untreated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC (CROWN Study)
The efficacy of lorlatinib for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who had not 
received prior systemic therapy for metastatic disease was established in an open-label, randomised, 
active-controlled, multicentre Study B7461006 (CROWN study). Patients were required to have an 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-2 and ALK-positive NSCLC 
as identified by the VENTANA ALK (D5F3) CDx assay. Neurologically stable patients with treated 
or untreated asymptomatic CNS metastases, including leptomeningeal metastases, were eligible. 
Patients were required to have finished radiation therapy, including stereotactic or partial brain 
irradiation within 2 weeks prior to randomisation; whole brain irradiation within 4 weeks prior to 
randomisation.  
Patients were randomised 1:1 to receive lorlatinib 100 mg orally once daily or crizotinib 250 mg orally 
twice daily. Randomisation was stratified by ethnic origin (Asian vs. non-Asian) and the presence or 
absence of CNS metastases at baseline. Treatment on both arms was continued until disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity. The major efficacy outcome measure was progression-free 
survival (PFS) as determined by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) according to Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1 (v1.1). Additional efficacy outcome 
measures were overall survival (OS), PFS by investigator assessment, PFS2 and tumour assessment 
related data by BICR, including objective response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR) and time 
to intracranial progression (IC-TTP). In patients with CNS metastases at baseline, additional outcome 
measures were intracranial objective response rate (IC-ORR) and intracranial duration of response 
(IC-DOR) all by BICR.  
A total of 296 patients were randomised to lorlatinib (n=149) or crizotinib (n=147). The demographic 
characteristics of the overall study population were: median age 59 years (range: 26 to 90 years), age 
≥ 65 years (35%), 59% female, 49% White, 44% Asian and 0.3% Black. The majority of patients had 
adenocarcinoma (95%) and never smoked (59%). Central nervous system metastases as determined by 
BICR neuroradiologists were present in 26% (n=78) of patients: of these, 30 patients had measurable 
CNS lesions.  
Results from the CROWN study are summarised in Table 3. At the data cutoff point, OS and PFS2 
data were not mature. 
Table 3.  Overall efficacy results in CROWN study
Efficacy parameter
Median duration of follow-up, months 
(95% CI)a
Progression-free survival by BICR 
Number of patients with event, n (%)
Progressive disease, n (%)
Death, n (%)
Median, months (95% CI)a
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-value*
Lorlatinib
N=149
18
(16, 20)
41 (28%)
32 (22%)
9 (6%)
NE (NE, NE)
Crizotinib
N=147
15
(13, 18)
86 (59%)
82 (56%)
4 (3%)
9 (8, 11)
0.28 (0.19, 0.41)
< 0.0001
15
Efficacy parameter
Overall survival 
Number of patients with event, n (%)
Median, months (95% CI)a
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
Progression-free survival by INV 
Number of patients with event, n (%)
Progressive disease, n (%)
Death, n (%)
Median, months (95% CI)a
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
p-value*
Overall response by BICR 
Overall response rate, n (%) 
(95% CI)c
Time to intracranial progression 
Median, months (95% CI)a
Hazard ratio (95% CI)b
Duration of response  
Number of responders
Median, months (95% CI)a
Intracranial overall response in patients 
with measurable CNS lesions at baseline 
Intracranial response rate, n (%) 
(95% CI)c
Complete response rate
Duration of response 
Number of responders
Median, months (95% CI)a
Intracranial overall response in patients 
with any measurable or nonmeasurable 
CNS lesions at baseline 
Intracranial response rate, n (%)
(95% CI)c
Complete response rate
Duration of response 
Number of responders
Median, months (95% CI)a
Lorlatinib
N=149
23 (15%)
NE (NE, NE)
Crizotinib
N=147
28 (19%)
NE (NE, NE)
0.72 (0.41, 1.25)
40 (27%)
34 (23%)
6 (4%)
NE (NE, NE)
104 (71%)
99 (67%)
5 (3%)
9 (7, 11)
0.21 (0.14, 0.31)
< 0.0001
113 (76%) 
(68, 83)
85 (58%) 
(49, 66)
NE (NE, NE)
16.6 (11, NE)
0.07 (0.03, 0.17)
113
NE (NE, NE)
N=17
14 (82%)
(57, 96)
71%
14
NE (NE, NE)
N=38
25 (66%) 
(49, 80)
61%
25
NE (NE, NE)
85
11 (9, 13)
N=13
3 (23%)
(5, 54)
8%
3
10 (9, 11)
N=40
8 (20%) 
(9, 36)
15%
8
9 (6, 11)
Abbreviations: BICR=blinded independent central review; CI=confidence interval; CNS=central nervous system; 
INV=investigator assessment; N/n=number of patients; NE=not estimable.
* p-value based on 1-sided stratified log-rank test. 
a Based on the Brookmeyer and Crowley method.
b Hazard ratio based on Cox proportional hazards model; under proportional hazards, hazard ratio < 1 indicates a 
reduction in hazard rate in favour of lorlatinib.
c Using exact method based on binomial distribution.
16
Figure 1. Kaplan-Meier plot of progression-free survival by blinded independent central 
review in CROWN study 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N/No.=number of patients.
The benefit from lorlatinib treatment was comparable across subgroups of baseline patient and disease 
characteristics, including patients with CNS metastases at baseline (n=38, HR=0.2, 95% CI: 0.10-0.43) 
and patients without CNS metastases at baseline (n=111, HR=0.32, 95% CI: 0.20-0.49). 
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC previously treated with an ALK kinase inhibitor
The use of lorlatinib in the treatment of ALK-positive advanced NSCLC after treatment with at least 
one second-generation ALK TKI was investigated in Study A, a single-arm, multicentre Phase 1/2 
study. A total of 139 patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC after treatment with at least one 
second-generation ALK TKI were enrolled in the Phase 2 portion of the study. Patients received 
lorlatinib orally at the recommended dose of 100 mg once daily, continuously.
The primary efficacy endpoint in the Phase 2 portion of the study was ORR, including intracranial 
(IC)-ORR, as per Independent Central Review (ICR) according to modified RECIST v1.1. Secondary 
endpoints included DOR, IC-DOR, time-to-tumour response (TTR) and PFS.
Patient demographics of the 139 ALK-positive advanced NSCLC patients after treatment with at least 
one second-generation ALK TKI, were 56% female, 48% White, 38% Asian, and the median age was 
53 years (range: 29-83 years) with 16% of patients ≥ 65 years of age. The ECOG performance status at 
baseline was 0 or 1 in 96% patients. Brain metastases were present at baseline in 67% of patients. Of 
the 139 patients, 20% received 1 prior ALK TKI, excluding crizotinib, 47% received 2 prior ALK 
TKIs and 33% received 3 or more prior ALK TKIs.
The main efficacy results for Study A are included in Tables 4 and 5.
17
Table 4. Overall efficacy results in Study A by prior treatment 
Efficacy parameter
Objective response rateb
(95% CI)
Complete response, n 
Partial response, n 
Duration of response
Median, months
(95% CI)
Progression-free survival
One prior ALK TKIa with 
or without
prior chemotherapy
(N = 28)
42.9%
(24.5, 62.8)
1
11
Two or more prior ALK 
TKIs with or without prior
chemotherapy
(N = 111)
39.6%
(30.5, 49.4)
2
42
5.6
(4.2, NR)
9.9
(5.7, 24.4)
Median, months
(95% CI)
5.5
(2.9, 8.2)
Abbreviations: ALK=anaplastic lymphoma kinase; CI=confidence interval; ICR=Independent Central 
Review; N/n=number of patients; NR=not reached; TKI=tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
a Alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib.
b
6.9
(5.4, 9.5)
Per ICR.
Table 5. Intracranial* efficacy results in Study A by prior treatment
Efficacy parameter
Objective response rateb
(95% CI)
Complete response, n 
Partial response, n 
Duration of intra-cranial 
response 
Median, months
(95% CI)
One prior ALK TKIa with 
or without
prior chemotherapy
(N = 9)
66.7%
(29.9, 92.5)
2
4
Two or more prior ALK 
TKIs with or without prior
chemotherapy
(N = 48)
52.1%
(37.2, 66.7)
10
15
NR
(4.1, NR)
12.4
(6.0, NR)
Abbreviations: ALK=anaplastic lymphoma kinase; CI=confidence interval; ICR=Independent 
Central Review; N/n=number of patients; NR=not reached; TKI= tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
*
a Alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib.
b
In patients with at least one measurable brain metastasis at baseline.
Per ICR.
In the overall efficacy population of 139 patients, 56 patients had a confirmed objective response by 
ICR with a median TTR of 1.4 months (range: 1.2 to 16.6 months). The ORR for Asians was 49.1% 
(95% CI: 35.1, 63.2) and 31.5% for non-Asians (95% CI: 21.1, 43.4). Among the 31 patients with a 
confirmed IC objective tumour response and at least one measurable brain metastasis at baseline by 
ICR, the median IC-TTR was 1.4 months (range: 1.2 to 16.2 months). The IC-ORR was 54.5% for 
Asians (95% CI: 32.2, 75.6) and 46.4% for non-Asians (95% CI: 27.5, 66.1).
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
lorlatinib in all subsets of the paediatric population in lung carcinoma (small cell and non-small cell 
carcinoma) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme.
This means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited.
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary.
18
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption
Peak lorlatinib concentrations in plasma are rapidly reached with the median Tmax of 1.2 hours 
following a single 100 mg dose and 2.0 hours following multiple dosing of 100 mg once daily. 
After oral administration of lorlatinib tablets, the mean absolute bioavailability is 80.8% (90% CI: 
75.7, 86.2) compared to intravenous administration.
Administration of lorlatinib with a high fat, high calorie meal resulted in 5% higher exposure 
compared to fasted conditions. Lorlatinib may be administered with or without food. 
At 100 mg once daily, the geometric mean (% coefficient of variation [CV]) peak plasma 
concentration was 577 (42) ng/mL and the AUC24 was 5,650 (39) ng h/mL in patients with cancer. The 
geometric mean (% CV) oral clearance was 17.7 (39) L/h.
Distribution
In vitro binding of lorlatinib to human plasma proteins is 66% with moderate binding to albumin or to 
α1-acid glycoprotein.
Biotransformation
In humans, lorlatinib undergoes oxidation and glucuronidation as the primary metabolic pathways. 
In vitro data indicate that lorlatinib is metabolised primarily by CYP3A4 and UGT1A4, with minor 
contribution from CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A5 and UGT1A3.
In plasma, a benzoic acid metabolite of lorlatinib resulting from the oxidative cleavage of the amide 
and aromatic ether bonds of lorlatinib was observed as a major metabolite, accounting for 21% of the 
circulating radioactivity. The oxidative cleavage metabolite is pharmacologically inactive.
Elimination
The plasma half-life of lorlatinib after a single 100 mg dose was 23.6 hours. The estimated lorlatinib 
effective plasma half-life at steady-state following completion of autoinduction was 14.83 hours.
Following oral administration of a 100 mg radiolabelled dose of lorlatinib, a mean 47.7% of the 
radioactivity was recovered in urine and 40.9% of the radioactivity was recovered in faeces, with 
overall mean total recovery of 88.6%. 
Unchanged lorlatinib was the major component of human plasma and faeces, accounting for 44% and 
9.1% of total radioactivity, respectively. Less than 1% of unchanged lorlatinib was detected in urine.
Furthermore, lorlatinib is an inducer via human pregnane-X-receptor (PXR) and the human 
constitutive androstane receptor (CAR).  
Linearity/non-linearity
At single dose, lorlatinib systemic exposure (AUCinf and Cmax) increased in a dose-related manner over 
the 10 to 200 mg dose range. Few data are available over the 10 to 200 mg dose range; however, no 
deviation from linearity was observed for AUCinf and Cmax after single dose.
After multiple once daily dose administration, lorlatinib Cmax increased dose-proportionally and 
AUCtau increased slightly less than proportionally over the dose range of 10 to 200 mg once daily.
Also, at steady-state lorlatinib plasma exposures are lower than those expected from single dose 
pharmacokinetics, indicative of a net time-dependent auto-induction effect. 
19
Hepatic impairment
As lorlatinib is metabolised in the liver, hepatic impairment is likely to increase lorlatinib plasma 
concentrations. Clinical studies that were conducted excluded patients with AST or ALT > 2.5 × ULN, 
or if due to underlying malignancy, > 5.0 × ULN or with total bilirubin > 1.5 × ULN. Population 
pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that lorlatinib exposure was not clinically meaningfully altered 
in patients with mild hepatic impairment (n = 50). No dose adjustments are recommended for patients 
with mild hepatic impairment. No information is available for patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
impairment.
Renal impairment
Less than 1% of the administered dose is detected as unchanged lorlatinib in urine. Population 
pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that lorlatinib steady-state plasma exposure and Cmax values 
slightly increase with worsening baseline renal function. Based on a renal impairment study, no 
starting dose adjustments are recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment
[eGFR based on Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study equation (MDRD)-derived eGFR (in 
mL/min/1.73 m2) × measured body surface area/1.73 ≥ 30 mL/min]. In this study, lorlatinib AUCinf
increased by 41% in subjects with severe renal impairment (absolute eGFR < 30 mL/min) compared to 
subjects with normal renal function (absolute eGFR ≥ 90 mL/min). A reduced dose of lorlatinib is 
recommended in patients with severe renal impairment, e.g., a once daily oral starting dose of 75 mg
(see section 4.2). No information is available for patients on renal dialysis.
Age, gender, race, body weight and phenotype
Population pharmacokinetic analyses in patients with advanced NSCLC and healthy volunteers 
indicate that there are no clinically relevant effects of age, gender, race, body weight and phenotypes 
for CYP3A5 and CYP2C19.
Cardiac electrophysiology
In Study A, 2 patients (0.7%) had absolute Fridericia’s correction QTc (QTcF) values > 500 msec and 
5 patients (1.8%) had a change in QTcF from baseline > 60 msec. 
In addition, the effect of a single oral dose of lorlatinib (50 mg, 75 mg, and 100 mg) with and without 
200 mg once daily itraconazole was evaluated in a 2-way crossover study in 16 healthy volunteers. No 
increases in the mean QTc were observed at the mean observed lorlatinib concentrations in this study.
In 295 patients who received lorlatinib at the recommended dose of 100 mg once daily and had a ECG 
measurement in Study A, lorlatinib was studied in a population of patients that excluded those with 
QTc interval > 470 msec. In the study population, the maximum mean change from baseline for 
PR interval was 16.4 msec (2-sided 90% upper CI 19.4 msec) (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8). Of these, 
7 patients had a baseline PR > 200 msec. Among the 284 patients with PR interval < 200 msec, 14% 
had PR interval prolongation ≥ 200 msec after starting lorlatinib. The prolongation of PR interval 
occurred in a concentration-dependent manner. Atrioventricular block occurred in 1.0% of patients. 
For those patients who develop PR prolongation, dose modification may be required (see section 4.2).
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity
The main toxicities observed were inflammation across multiple tissues (skin and cervix of rats and 
lung, trachea, skin, lymph nodes and/or the oral cavity including mandibular bone of dogs; associated 
with increases in white blood cells, fibrinogen and/or globulin and decreases in albumin) and changes 
in the pancreas (with increases in amylase and lipase), hepatobiliary system (with increases in liver 
20
enzymes), male reproductive system, cardiovascular system, kidneys and gastrointestinal tract, 
peripheral nerves and the CNS (potential for cognitive functional impairment) at dose equivalent to 
human clinical exposure at the recommended posology. Changes in blood pressure and heart rate, and 
QRS complex and PR interval were also observed in animals after acute dosing (approximately 
2.6 times the human clinical exposure at 100 mg after a single dose based on Cmax). All target organ 
findings with the exception of hepatic bile duct hyperplasia were partially to fully reversible.
Genotoxicity
Lorlatinib is not mutagenic but is aneugenic in vitro and in vivo with a no observed effect level for 
aneugenicity approximately 16.5 times human clinical exposure at 100 mg based on AUC.
Carcinogenicity
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with lorlatinib.
Reproductive toxicity
Seminiferous tubular degeneration and/or atrophy in the testes, and epididymal changes (inflammation 
and/or vacuolation) were observed in the rat and dog. In the prostate, minimal to mild glandular 
atrophy was observed in dogs at dose equivalent to human clinical exposure at the recommended 
posology). The effects on male reproductive organs were partially to fully reversible.
In embryo-foetal toxicity studies, conducted in rats and rabbits, respectively, increased 
embryolethality and lower foetal body weights and malformations were observed. Foetal morphologic 
abnormalities included rotated limbs, supernumerary digits, gastroschisis, malformed kidneys, domed 
head, high arched palate and dilation of ventricles of the brain. The exposure at the lowest doses with 
embryo-foetal effects in animals was equivalent to the human clinical exposure at 100 mg, based on 
AUC.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Microcrystalline cellulose
Calcium hydrogen phosphate
Sodium starch glycolate
Magnesium stearate
Film-coating
Hypromellose
Lactose monohydrate
Macrogol
Triacetin
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Iron oxide black (E172)
Iron oxide red (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable. 
21
6.3
Shelf life
3 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container 
OPA/Al/PVC blisters with aluminium foil backing containing 10 film-coated tablets. 
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
Each pack contains 90 film-coated tablets in 9 blisters.
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
Each pack contains 30 film-coated tablets in 3 blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1355/002
EU/1/19/1355/003
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 6 May 2019
Date of latest renewal: 4 April 2023
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
22
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
23
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstätte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) 
shall submit PSURs every 6 months.
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  

Risk management plan (RMP)
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.

Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures:
Description
Post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further characterise the efficacy 
of lorlatinib in patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC previously not treated 
with an ALK inhibitor, the MAH will submit the results including overall survival 
(OS) data of the Phase III CROWN study (B7461006) comparing lorlatinib versus 
crizotinib in that same setting. The clinical study report will be submitted by:
Due date
30 June 2025
24
E.
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures:
Description
In order to confirm the efficacy of lorlatinib in patients who progressed after 
alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK TKI therapy, the MAH should conduct a 
single-arm study investigating patients in that same setting (B7461027) and 
submit the clinical study report by:
Due date
30 June 2024
25
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
A. LABELLING
27
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
lorlatinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 25 mg of lorlatinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose (see leaflet for further information).
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
90 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
28
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1355/003
90 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Lorviqua 25 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN 
29
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lorviqua 25 mg tablets
lorlatinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer (as MAH logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
30
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
lorlatinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of lorlatinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose (see leaflet for further information).
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
31
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium 
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1355/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Lorviqua 100 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN
32
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lorviqua 100 mg tablets
lorlatinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer (as MAH logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
33
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
34
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Lorviqua 25 mg film-coated tablets
Lorviqua 100 mg film-coated tablets
lorlatinib
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Lorviqua is and what it is used for 
2. What you need to know before you take Lorviqua
3. How to take Lorviqua
4.
Possible side effects 
5. How to store Lorviqua
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Lorviqua is and what it is used for
What Lorviqua is 
Lorviqua contains the active substance lorlatinib, a medicine that is used for treatment of adults with 
advanced stages of a form of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Lorviqua 
belongs to the group of medicines that inhibit an enzyme called anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK). 
Lorviqua is only given to patients who have an alteration in the ALK gene, see How Lorviqua works
below. 
What Lorviqua is used for
Lorviqua is used to treat adults with a type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
It is used if your lung cancer:
-
is ALK-positive – this means your cancer cells have a fault in a gene that makes an enzyme 
called ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase), see How Lorviqua works, below; and 
is advanced. 
-
Lorviqua can be prescribed to you if:
-
-
you have not been previously treated with an ALK inhibitor; or
you have been previously treated with a medicine called alectinib or ceritinib, which are ALK
inhibitors; or 
you have been previously treated with crizotinib followed by another ALK inhibitor.
-
How Lorviqua works
Lorviqua inhibits a type of enzyme called tyrosine kinase and triggers the death of cancer cells in 
patients with alterations in genes for ALK. Lorviqua is only given to patients whose disease is due to 
an alteration in the gene for ALK tyrosine kinase.
35
If you have any questions about how Lorviqua works or why this medicine has been prescribed for 
you, ask your doctor.
2. What you need to know before you take Lorviqua
Do not take Lorviqua
-
if you are allergic to lorlatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are taking any of these medicines:



 mitotane (used to treat cancer of the adrenal glands)
 medicines containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum, a herbal preparation)
rifampicin (used to treat tuberculosis)
carbamazepine, phenytoin (used to treat epilepsy) 
enzalutamide (used to treat prostate cancer)
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Lorviqua:
-
-
if you have high levels of blood cholesterol or triglycerides
if you have high levels of the enzymes known as amylase or lipase in the blood or a condition 
such as pancreatitis that can raise the levels of these enzymes
if you have problems with your heart, including heart failure, slow heart rate, or if 
electrocardiogram (ECG) results show that you have an abnormality of the electrical activity of 
your heart known as prolonged PR interval or AV block.
if you have cough, chest pain, shortness of breath, or worsening of respiratory symptoms or 
have ever had a lung condition called pneumonitis. 
if you have high blood pressure.
if you have high blood sugar.
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Lorviqua.
Tell your doctor immediately if you develop:
-
heart problems. Tell your doctor right away about changes in your heart beat (fast or slow), 
light-headedness, fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath. These symptoms could be signs of 
heart problems. Your doctor may check for problems with your heart during treatment with 
Lorviqua. If the results are abnormal, your doctor may decide to reduce the dose of Lorviqua or 
stop your treatment.
speech problems, difficulty speaking, including slurred or slow speech. Your doctor may 
investigate further and may decide to reduce your dose of Lorviqua or stop your treatment.
mental status changes, mood or memory problems, such as change in your mood (including 
depression, euphoria and mood swings), irritability, aggression, agitation, anxiety or a change in 
your personality and episodes of confusion or loss of contact with reality, such as believing, 
seeing or hearing things that are not real. Your doctor may investigate further and may decide to 
reduce your dose of Lorviqua or stop your treatment.
pain in the back or abdomen (belly), yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice), nausea or 
vomiting. These symptoms could be signs of pancreatitis. Your doctor may investigate further 
and may decide to reduce the dose of Lorviqua.
cough, chest pain, or a worsening of existing respiratory symptoms. Your doctor may 
investigate further and treat you with other medicines such as antibiotics and steroids. Your 
doctor may decide to reduce your dose of Lorviqua or stop your treatment.
headaches, dizziness, blurred vision, chest pain or shortness of breath. These symptoms could 
be signs of high blood pressure. Your doctor may investigate further and treat you with 
medicines to control your blood pressure. Your doctor may decide to reduce your dose of 
Lorviqua or stop your treatment.
feeling very thirsty, a need to urinate more than usual, feeling very hungry, feeling sick to your 
stomach, weakness or tiredness, or confusion. These symptoms could be signs of high blood 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
36
sugar. Your doctor may investigate further and treat you with medicines to control your blood 
sugar. Your doctor may decide to reduce your dose of Lorviqua or stop your treatment.
Your doctor may do further assessments and may decide to reduce the dose of Lorviqua or stop your 
treatment if you:
-
develop liver problems. Tell your doctor right away if you feel more tired than usual, your skin 
and whites of your eyes turn yellow, your urine turns dark or brown (tea colour), you have 
nausea, vomiting, or decreased appetite, you have pain on the right side of your stomach, you 
have itching, or if you bruise more easily than usual. Your doctor may do blood tests to check 
your liver function.
have kidney problems.
-
See Possible side effects in section 4 for more information.
Children and adolescents
This medicine is only indicated in adults, and it is not to be given to children and adolescents.
Tests and checks
You will have blood tests before you start treatment and during your treatment. These tests are to 
check the level of cholesterol, triglycerides and the enzymes amylase or lipase in your blood before 
you start treatment with Lorviqua and regularly during treatment. 
Other medicines and Lorviqua
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including herbal medicines and medicines obtained over the counter. This is because 
Lorviqua can affect the way some other medicines work. Also some medicines can affect the way 
Lorviqua works.
You must not take Lorviqua with certain medicines. These are listed under Do not take Lorviqua, at 
the start of section 2.
In particular tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the following medicines:
-
-
-
-
boceprevir – a medicine used to treat hepatitis C.
bupropion – a medicine used to treat depression or to help people quit smoking.
dihydroergotamine, ergotamine – medicines used to treat migraine headaches. 
efavirenz, cobicistat, ritonavir, paritaprevir in combination with ritonavir and ombitasvir and/or 
dasabuvir, and ritonavir in combination with either elvitegravir, indinavir, lopinavir or 
tipranavir – medicines used to treat AIDS/HIV.
ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole – medicines used to treat fungal 
infections. Also troleandomycin, a medicine used to treat certain types of bacterial infections.
quinidine – a medicine used to treat irregular heartbeat and other heart problems.
pimozide – a medicine used to treat mental health problems.
alfentanil and fentanyl – medicines used to treat severe pain.
ciclosporin, sirolimus, and tacrolimus – medicines used in organ transplantation to prevent 
organ rejection. 
-
-
-
-
-
Lorviqua with food and drink
You must not drink grapefruit juice or eat grapefruit while on treatment with Lorviqua as they may 
change the amount of Lorviqua in your body.
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility
-
Contraception – information for women
You should not become pregnant while taking this medicine. If you are able to have children, 
you must use highly effective contraception (for example, double-barrier contraception such as 
condom and diaphragm) while on treatment and for at least 5 weeks after stopping treatment. 
Lorlatinib may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptive methods (for example, birth 
control pill); therefore, hormonal contraceptives may not be considered highly effective. If 
37
hormonal contraception is unavoidable it must be used in combination with a condom. Talk to 
your doctor about the right methods of contraception for you and your partner.
Contraception – information for men
You should not father children during treatment with Lorviqua because this medicine could 
harm the baby. If there is any possibility that you may father a child while taking this medicine, 
you must use a condom during treatment, and for at least 14 weeks after completing therapy. 
Talk to your doctor about the right methods of contraception for you and your partner.
Pregnancy
 Do not take Lorviqua if you are pregnant. This is because it may harm your baby. 

If your male partner is being treated with Lorviqua, he must use a condom during treatment 
and for at least 14 weeks after completing therapy. 
If you become pregnant when taking the medicine or during the 5 weeks after taking your 
last dose, tell your doctor straight away. 

Breast-feeding
Do not breast-feed while taking this medicine and for 7 days after the last dose. This is because 
it is not known if Lorviqua can pass into breast milk and could therefore harm your baby.
Fertility
Lorviqua may affect male fertility. Talk to your doctor about fertility preservation before taking 
Lorviqua.
-
-
-
-
Driving and using machines
You should take special care when driving and using machines when taking Lorviqua because of its 
effects on your mental state.
Lorviqua contains lactose
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine.
Lorviqua contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 25 mg or 100 mg tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take Lorviqua
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
-
-
-
The recommended dose is one tablet of 100 mg taken by mouth once daily. 
Take the dose at about the same time each day.
You can take the tablets with food or between meals always avoiding grapefruit and grapefruit 
juice.
Swallow the tablets whole and do not crush, chew or dissolve the tablets.
Sometimes your doctor may lower your dose, stop your treatment for a short time or stop your 
treatment completely if you feel unwell.
-
-
If you vomit after taking Lorviqua
If you vomit after taking a dose of Lorviqua, do not take an extra dose, just take your next dose at the 
usual time.
If you take more Lorviqua than you should
If you accidentally take too many tablets, tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse right away. You may 
require medical attention.
38
If you forget to take Lorviqua
What to do if you forget to take a tablet depends on how long it is until your next dose.
-
If your next dose is in 4 hours or more, take the missed tablet as soon as you remember. Then 
take the next tablet at the usual time.
If your next dose is in less than 4 hours away, skip the missed tablet. Then take the next tablet at 
the usual time.
-
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you stop taking Lorviqua
It is important to take Lorviqua every day, for as long as your doctor asks you to. If you are not able to 
take the medicine as your doctor has prescribed, or you feel you do not need it anymore, speak with
your doctor right away.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Some side effects could be serious. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following side effects (also section 2 What 
you need to know before you take Lorviqua). Your doctor may lower your dose, stop your treatment 
for a short time or stop your treatment completely:
-
-
-
-
cough, shortness of breath, chest pain or worsening breathing problems 
slow pulse, (50 beats per minute or less), feeling tired, dizzy or faint or losing consciousness
abdominal (belly) pain, back pain, nausea, vomiting, itching or yellowing of the skin and eyes
mental status changes; changes in cognition including confusion, memory loss, reduced ability 
to concentrate; changes in mood including irritability and mood swings; changes in speech 
including difficulty speaking, such as slurred or slow speech; or loss of contact with reality, 
such as believing, seeing or hearing things that are not real
Other side effects of Lorviqua may include:
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people
-
increase in cholesterol and triglycerides (fats in your blood that would be detected during blood 
tests) 
limb or skin swelling 
problems with your eyes, such as difficulty seeing out of one or both eyes, double vision, or 
perceived flashes of light
problems with the nerves in your arms and legs, such as pain, numbness, unusual sensations like 
burning or pins and needles, difficulty walking, or difficulty with usual activities of daily living 
such as writing 
increased level of enzymes called lipase and/or amylase in the blood that would be detected 
during blood tests
low number of red blood cells known as anaemia that would be detected during blood tests 
diarrhoea
constipation
pain in your joints 
weight gain
headache
rash
muscle pain 
increase in blood pressure
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
39
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people
-
-
increase in blood sugar
excess protein in the urine
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Lorviqua
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister foil and carton after
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the package is damaged or shows signs of tampering.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Lorviqua contains
-
The active substance is lorlatinib.
Lorviqua 25 mg: each film-coated tablet (tablet) contains 25 mg lorlatinib.
Lorviqua 100 mg: each film-coated tablet (tablet) contains 100 mg lorlatinib.
-
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, calcium hydrogen phosphate, sodium starch glycolate, 
magnesium stearate.
Film-coating: Hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, macrogol, triacetin, titanium dioxide (E171), 
iron oxide black (E172), and iron oxide red (E172).
See Lorviqua contains lactose and Lorviqua contains sodium in section 2.
What Lorviqua looks like and contents of the pack
Lorviqua 25 mg is supplied as round light pink film-coated tablets, debossed with “Pfizer” on one side 
and “25” and “LLN” on the other side.
Lorviqua 25 mg is provided in blisters of 10 tablets, which are available in packs containing 90 tablets 
(9 blisters). 
Lorviqua 100 mg is supplied as oval dark pink film-coated tablets, debossed with “Pfizer” on one side 
and “LLN 100” on the other side.
Lorviqua 100 mg is provided in blisters of 10 tablets, which are available in packs containing 
30 tablets (3 blisters). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
40
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstӓtte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer NV/SA
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel: +370 5 251 4000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel.: +36-1-488-37-00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 283 004 111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +356 21344610
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
Pfizer Ελλάς A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6785800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
France
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00
41
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free)
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
Kύπρος
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch) 
Τηλ: +357 22817690
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine.
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
42
ANNEX IV
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S)
43
Scientific conclusions
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lorlatinib, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows: 
In view of available data on proteinuria from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous reports, 
including in majority of cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge in 2 cases and 
re-challenge in 3 cases, and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a 
causal relationship between lorlatinib and proteinuria is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC 
concluded that the product information of products containing lorlatinib should be amended 
accordingly.
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall 
conclusions and grounds for recommendation.
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lorlatinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing lorlatinib is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information.
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied.
44
