SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
11..  
Introduction 
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive degenerative macular disease attacking the 
region of highest visual acuity (VA), the macula. AMD is the major cause of vision loss in the elderly 
population  in  the  Western  world.  Although  the  disease  rarely  results  in  complete  blindness  and 
peripheral  vision  may  remain  unaffected,  central  vision  is  gradually  blurred,  severely  affecting 
ordinary daily activities.  
AMD is a disease occurring in older patients. Population-based epidemiologic studies have provided 
estimates of prevalence and incidence of AMD among various racial/ethnic groups around the world. 
These studies have shown that AMD is rare before 55 years of age - being more common in persons 
75 years of age or older, and that it is less common in blacks than in whites. 
AMD is classified into two different types: the non-exudative (or dry) form and the exudative (wet or 
neovascular) form. The dry form is the most prevalent, accounting for 90% of the cases. The onset and 
progression of either type do not follow any particular pattern. It is not uncommon that the dry form 
develops  into  the  wet  form  of  AMD  in  which  new  choroidal  vessels  are  developed.  The  latter  form 
causes the worst incapacity and accounts for approximately 90 % of severely impaired vision in AMD. 
In  this  process,  the  oxygen  supply  to  the  macula  is  disrupted  and  as  a  response  to  ischaemia,  new, 
immature, leaky blood vessels are formed. These may grow through breaks of the membrane behind 
the  retina,  towards  the  macula,  often  lifting  the  retina  and  causing  haemorrhage  in  the  sub-retinal 
space.  Eventually,  the  lesions  may  turn  into  scars  resulting  in  destruction  of  the  macula  and  loss  of 
central vision.  
The  angiographic  classification  of  AMD  lesions  includes  determination  of  the  lesion  size,  the 
proportion of the entire AMD lesion that consists of ‘classic’ and ‘occult’ choroidal neovascularisation 
(CNV). 
The  process  of  angiogenesis  is  multi-factorial  and  highly  complex,  but  vascular  endothelial  growth 
factor (VEGF) is considered critical both in physiological and in pathological angiogenesis, such as in 
AMD. Even though overexpression of VEGF is not likely to be the sole factor behind AMD, elevated 
levels of VEGF have been found in pathological neovascularisation, both in experimental models and 
in  AMD.  Of  the  four  major  isoforms,  VEGF165  seems  to  be  the  predominant  isoform  in  these 
processes,  at  least  in  animal  studies.  There  are  also  a  considerable  number  of  publications  showing 
that by antagonising VEGF, angiogenesis and vascular permeability can be prevented.  
A certain percentage of patients with exudative AMD can benefit from laser treatment with traditional 
photocoagulation laser or photodynamic therapy (PDT) and more recently, therapy to block vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been approved. Still, there is no curative treatment for AMD as 
available treatment only slows down the disease progress and for a large number of patients, only low 
vision rehabilitation remains. Consequently, it is an area with an unmet medical need. 
Lucentis is a new medicinal product containing a biotechnology-derived protein (ranibizumab) as drug 
substance. Ranibizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody fragment produced in Escherichia coli 
cells  by  standard  recombinant  DNA  technology  and  is  targeted  against  human  vascular  endothelial 
growth factor A (VEGF-A). It binds with high affinity to VEGF-A isoforms generated by alternative 
mRNA splicing, e.g. VEGF121, VEGF165, and their biologically active proteolytic cleavage product 
VEGF110.  The  binding  of  ranibizumab  to  VEGF-A  prevents  the  interaction  of  VEGF-A  with  its 
receptors  VEGFR-1  and  VEGFR-2  on  the  surface  of  endothelial  cells.  Binding  of  VEGF-A  to  its 
receptors leads to endothelial cell proliferation and neovascularisation, as well as vascular leakage, all 
of  which  are  thought  to  contribute  to  the  progression  of  the  neovascular  (wet)  form  of  age-related 
macular degeneration, one of the leading causes of legal blindness. 
1/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  submitted  a  complete  independent  application  according  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The  indication  and  posology  proposed  by  the  applicant  for  Lucentis  was:  for  the  improvement  and 
maintenance  of  visual  acuity  and  function,  and  for  the  reduction  of  vascular  leakage  and  retinal 
oedema,  in  patients  with  neovascular  age-related  macular  degeneration  (AMD).  The  recommended 
dose for Lucentis is 0.3 mg (0.05 ml) administered once a month as an intravitreal injection.  
22..  
Quality aspects 
Nomenclature 
INN Name:  
Compendial Name:  
Chemical Name: 
Laboratory Code:  
USAN/BAN/JAN Name:  
CAS Registry Number:   
WHO Number:   
Ranibizumab 
Not Applicable 
Immunoglobulin G1, anti-(human vascular endothelial growth factor) 
Fab fragment (human-mouse monoclonal rhuFab V2 γ1-chain), 
disulfide with human-mouse monoclonal rhuFab V2 κ-chain 
rhuFab V2 
Ranibizumab 
347396-82-1 
8313 
Description of the drug substance 
Ranibizumab results from the insertion of murine  anti-VEGF-A complementary-determining regions 
(CDRs)  into  a  consensus  human  IgG1  framework.  Amino-acid  substitutions  were  made  in  order  to 
increase the binding affinity to VEGF-A.  
The 214-residue light-chain linked by a disulfide bond at its C-terminus extremity to the 231-residue 
N-terminal  segment  of  the  heavy  chain.  The  molecular  weight  of  ranibizumab  is  approximately  48 
kDa (23 kDa and 25 kDa for the light and heavy chain, respectively). 
Ranibizumab contains 10 cysteine residues forming 4 intra-chain and 1 inter-chain disulfide bonds. 
As a Fab fragment, ranibizumab does not contain the Fc region that is involved in antibody-mediated 
effector functions. 
Manufacture 
Genentech, South San Francisco, California, USA is responsible for the preparation of the Master Cell 
Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) and the manufacture of the drug substance. This site was 
last  inspected  by  the  German  inspectorate  in  May  2006.  It  is  considered  that  this  site  is  operated  in 
accordance  to  current  EU  Good  Manufacturing  Practices  (EU  cGMP),  with  standard  operating 
procedures in place to describe all procedures and controls. 
Development genetics: 
Ranibizumab  was  originally  derived  from  a  murine  monoclonal  antibody  (muMAb  A4.6.1),  which 
was produced at Genentech using hybridomas generated from mice immunised with the predominant 
165-residue form of recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor (rhuVEGF165) conjugated 
with keyhole limpet hemocyanin. 
The cDNAs encoding the muMAb A.4.6.1 variable light (VL) and variable heavy (VH) chains were 
isolated  using  reverse  transcriptase-polymerase  chain  reaction  (RT-PCR)  from  hybridoma  cells 
producing muMAb A.4.6.1. These cDNAs  were cloned and fused to human  constant light (CL) and 
human constant heavy (CH1) domains. Several framework residue substitutions near the CDRs were 
made to improve binding to the VEGF antigen. The heavy and light chains were then  moved into a 
phage display vector.  
Site-directed mutagenesis of the CDRs was used to improve antibody/antigen binding. 
2/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  final  expression  plasmid  pY0317xaptet  contains  the  light-chain  gene  and  the  heavy-chain  gene 
linked in tandem, a phoA promoter for the transcription of each gene into a single dicistronic mRNA, 
a tetracycline resistance gene, an origin of replication and a beta-lactam resistance gene. 
To  generate  a  ranibizumab-producing  cell  line,  E.  coli  60E4  cells  were  transformed  with 
pY0317xaptet and selected for tetracycline resistance. A purified culture of the transformed cells was 
used to prepare the MCB. 
The light and heavy chains fold into their native conformations after secretion into the periplasm and 
are covalently joined by a disulfide bond. 
Cell bank system: 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  MCB  and  WCB  has  been  developed  and  maintained  in 
accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines.  
One vial containing transformed E. coli 60E4/ pY0317xaptet cells was used to inoculate a 1 L flask. 
The shake flask is incubated at 30°C after which DMSO is added. 
The  WCB  was  prepared  from  one  vial  of  MCB,  based  on  the  same  principles  as  for  the  MCB.  The 
MCB is stored in liquid nitrogen refrigerators and WCB is stored in mechanical freezers. 
Procedures  followed  in  the  preparation  of  MCB  and  WCB  have  been  appropriately  described.  An 
extensive  range  of  tests  has  been  performed  for  their  characterisation,  in  accordance  with  ICH 
guidelines,  including  identity,  viability,  stability,  presence  of  adventitious  agents  (bacteria,  fungi, 
bacteriophage  that  may  be  associated  with  E.  coli  production  cultures).  A  validated  non-host 
contamination test and a validated bacteriophage assay is performed on MCB and WCB culture vials. 
The  applicant  satisfactorily  justified  why  the  stability  of  the  MCB  will  not  be  tested  per  a  pre-
determined protocol in case a number of years have passed without preparing a WCB. However, an 
ampoule of MCB will be tested in case the viability of the WCB has declined for more than 2 logs. 
Fermentation process: 
One ampoule from either the MCB or the WCB is thawed and is inoculated in a 2 L shake flask. The 
flask  is  incubated  (primary  inoculum),  after  which  the  culture  is  transferred  to  a  10  L  bioreactor  to 
generate  the  secondary  inoculum.  The  primary  and  secondary  inoculum  stages  are  performed  to 
provide enough cell mass to transfer to the production bioreactor. 
The first part of the production culture stage consists of cell mass accumulation and rapid cell growth, 
which depletes the media in phosphate. This depletion triggers the second part, which is the product 
induction phase. The two subunits accumulate in the periplasmic space and assemble to form the Fab 
fragment. 
The purpose of the following steps is to release ranibizumab from the cells, to separate ranibizumab 
from the cell debris and to prepare a stable clarified feedstock for the first chromatography step. The 
cells are ruptured by homogenization, which releases soluble ranibizumab into the liquid phase of the 
product  stream.  A  heated  hold  step  follows,  to  induce  the  precipitation  of  impurities  and  flocculate 
insoluble cell debris. After that, heating is discontinued and the homogenate is diluted with purified 
water  and  then  pH  adjusted,  if  necessary,  to  meet  the  load  criteria  for  the  cation-exchange 
chromatography  step.  Finally,  the  product  stream  is  clarified  by  centrifugation  followed  by  normal 
flow filtration. 
Cell  culture  conditions  and  in-process  controls  have  been  sufficiently  described  and  are  considered 
appropriate. 
Purification process: 
Purification  is  performed  by  a  series  of  4  chromatography  steps,  successively.  The  purpose  of  these 
chromatography steps is to reduce impurities, which includes cell substrate-derived impurities, small 
molecules,  product-related  aggregates,  charge  variants  and  fragments.  The  pH-adjusted  anion-
3/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exchange  pool  is  centrifuged  and  formulated.  After  UF/DF,  the  pool  is  diluted  and  adjusted  with 
conditioning buffer to achieve the bulk drug substance formulation. 
The bulk drug substance is then filtered, filled into storage vessels and stored at 5ºC or at <-20ºC until 
shipment to the filling facility. 
The purification process has been adequately described. Columns sizes and run conditions, including 
maximum protein load and elution criteria, are specified as well as acceptable ranges. Critical process 
parameters  are  identified  and  the  in-process  control  limits  that  have  been  set  are  appropriately 
justified. 
Tryptone, N-Z amine type A are the only materials of animal origin used in the manufacturing process. 
Both  are  derived  from  bovine  casein  and  lactose  (N-Z  amine  only)  sourced  from  milk  from  healthy 
animals and considered fit for human consumption. The milk is obtained from cows from Australia, 
New Zealand and Canada. Porcine starting materials, which are part of the manufacturing process for 
tryptone  and  N-Z  amine,  are  sourced  from  Canada  and  USA.  Yeast  extracts  are  also  used  in  the 
manufacturing  process.  Before  use  in  the  manufacturing  process,  tryptone,  N-Z  amine  type  A  and 
yeast extracts undergo a validated heat sterilisation process.  
Manufacturing process development and process validation: 
Several  process  versions  were  used  during  development,  which  have  been  described  in  sufficient 
detail. Manufacturing changes included change to the cell line, changes to the cell culture conditions, 
fermentation  process  parameters,  various  changes  to  the  purification  process,  change  to  the  finished 
product formulation. 
The  rationale  for  the  proposed  changes  was  explained.  An  extensive  comparability  exercise  was 
performed,  which  includes  a  comprehensive  physicochemical  characterisation,  non-clinical  studies 
and clinical studies. The applicant chose an appropriate range of techniques from the characterisation 
studies  for  these  comparability  studies.  Stability  studies  also  confirmed  comparability  in  the 
characteristics of the materials. 
A  prospective  process  validation  programme  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines  to 
demonstrate the suitability and robustness of the manufacturing process and the consistent production 
of ranibizumab with the appropriate quality attributes. 
Validation studies confirmed consistency of the cell culture and harvest processes and demonstrated 
that the purification process is robust and reproducible for removing cell substrate-derived impurities, 
process-related and product-related impurities. Hold times, buffer storage, cleaning and repeated use 
of columns and filter leachables were in addition addressed. 
Overall, process validation was considered satisfactory. 
Characterisation: 
a) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
The  drug  substance  has  been  comprehensively  characterised,  using  state-of-the-art  methods  for 
physicochemical characteristics. 
-  Structural characterisation: 
Edman  degradation  analysis  showed  that  the  light  and  heavy  chains  have  the  expected  N-Terminal 
sequences. 
Mass spectrometric analysis of carboxypeptidase Y-treated product confirmed the C-terminal 
sequence of the heavy chain.  
The  rest  of  the  amino  acid  sequence  was  confirmed  by  peptide  map  analyses.  Oxidation  was  also 
studied and consistent results were found. 
The 5 expected disulfide bonds were identified. Additionally, free sulfhydryl content was consistently 
detected, indicating low levels of unpaired cysteine residues that are not assigned. 
4/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence that the protein did not unfold or misfold has been provided.  
- Physicochemical characterisation: 
The molecular weight of ranibizumab (approximately 48 kDa), along with the isoelectric point and the 
extinction coefficient were determined. 
Low  levels  of  higher  molecular  weight  species  of  ranibizumab,  mainly  dimer,  were  found.  Trace 
amounts of fragments corresponding to the heavy and light chains were also identified. 
- Biological characterisation: 
Ranibizumab  does  not  contain  the  Fc  region  and  is  therefore  not  expected  to  induce  Fc-mediated 
cytotoxicity, to bind complement or to induce antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
It  was  shown  that  ranibizumab  binds  with  high  affinity  to  the  three  biologically  active  isoforms  of 
VEGF: VEGF165 (predominant form), VEGF121 and VEGF110. 
A cell-based assay was chosen and validated as potency assay. The rationale for the use of this assay is 
based  on  the  fact  that  the  method  is  indicative  of  the  inhibition  of  VEGF-induced  proliferation 
(mimicking angiogenesis). 
The biological properties of ranibizumab have been properly characterised and the potency assay that 
was chosen is considered adequate. Results demonstrated good consistency between lots. 
b) Impurities: 
Process-related impurities consist of cell substrate-derived impurities, including E. coli proteins (ECP) 
and DNA, cell culture-derived impurities and downstream-derived impurities. 
A number of product-related impurities have been identified: 
- Size variant: aggregates, fragments; 
- Oxidized variants; 
- Other variants including acetylation, glycation, methylation, Fab truncation. 
Overall, impurities have been properly identified and characterised. 
Specifications  
A comprehensive set of tests has been developed and validated to assess the identity, purity, potency, 
content  and  other  general  parameters  of  the  drug  substance.  The  selection  of  tests  was  based  on 
physicochemical and biological characterization, process validation, formulation development studies, 
the stability profile of the drug substance.  
The drug substance specification limits have been provided and are considered acceptable. However, 
the applicant committed to re-evaluate the specification limits, including those for ECP, SEC, CE-
SDS, IEC, after three post-approval commercial campaigns (comprising a minimum of 30 additional 
runs). 
Stability 
The  design  of  the  stability  testing  program,  including  the  testing  intervals  and  temperature  storage 
conditions, are in accordance with current ICH guidelines.   
The stability acceptance criteria for the tests used in the stability program are the same as those used 
for release of ranibizumab drug substance.   
The  stability  data  provided  were  within  the  specifications  and  support  a  shelf  life  of  36  months  at       
≤ −20°C and 90 days at 5°C including three freeze/thaw cycles.  
A freeze-thaw study was initiated as part of the drug substance stability programme and the applicant 
committed to submit the results of this study. 
5/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Early  clinical  trials  were  conducted  using  a  lyophilised  formulation.  A  liquid  formulation  was  used 
from Phase III studies, with ranibizumab concentrations of 6 mg/ml and 10 mg/ml. 
α,α-trehalose dihydrate (tonicity agent), a histidine buffer, polysorbate 20 (surfactant to minimise the 
risk  of  agitation-induced  aggregation)  are  used  in  the  commercial  formulation  of  Lucentis.  These 
excipients  are  commonly  employed  in  medicinal  products  for  parenteral  administration  whose  drug 
substance is a protein. 
Ranibizumab was found most stable in a solution at a range of pH 5 to pH 6. Therefore pH 5.5 was 
chosen. 
No incompatibility was identified between these excipients and ranibizumab, as demonstrated by the 
long-term stability studies. 
Water for injection is also used as solvent in the formulation. 
The  proposed  container  for  Lucentis  is  a  single-use  type  I  glass  vial,  with  an  overfill  of  0.25  ml. 
Lucentis  is  supplied  with  a  filter  needle  for  withdrawal  of  the  vial  content,  a  1  ml  syringe  and  an 
injection needle. 
Manufacture of the product  
The drug product is manufactured by Novartis Pharma Stein AG, Stein Switzerland. This facility was 
last inspected by Swissmedic in July 2005 and is operated in accordance to current EU-cGMP. 
The frozen drug substance is thawed at 5°C and diluted in the sterile filtered formulation buffer. The 
drug product is then pre-filtered and sterile filtered (0.22 µm filter), which is followed by the aseptic 
filling into vials, stoppering, capping and crimping steps. 
Reprocessing may be performed and allowable circumstances for a maximum of 3 refiltrations have 
been described. 
The media fill and process validation results, lot-to-lot consistency data and critical process controls 
have shown that the sterile filtration and aseptic filling process are robust and well controlled and that 
the drug product can be consistently manufactured. 
Specifications 
The control of the drug product relies to a large extent on the same analytical methods as those used 
for the control of the drug substance. The tests and rationale for the acceptance criteria for the drug 
product were considered acceptable.  
Stability of the Product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol  to  monitor  the  time-temperature  stability  of  cGMP  lots  of  drug  product.  Based  on  the  data 
provided, the approvable shelf life for the drug product is 18 months at 2-8°C.  
Photostability studies showed that Lucentis drug product should be protected from light. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with the existing guidelines.  
6/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on the source and generation of the cell substrate and analysis of the expression construct 
are considered satisfactory. 
The cell bank system used for the manufacture of the drug substance is adequately described and an 
appropriate range of tests has been performed. 
The  applicant  satisfactorily  justified  why  the  stability  of  the  MCB  will  not  be  tested  per  a  pre-
determined protocol in case a number of years have passed without preparing a WCB. However, an 
ampoule of MCB will be tested in case the viability of the WCB has declined for more than 2 logs. 
In  general,  the  cell  culture  process  and  purification  process  as  well  as  the  filling  and  storage  of  the 
drug  substance  have  been  described  in  sufficient  detail  and  appropriate  in-process  controls  and 
acceptance criteria are in place.  
Validation data generally demonstrate that the process consistently produces the drug substance. 
A  number  of  changes  were  introduced  during  development  in  the  drug  substance  manufacturing 
process.  The  extensive  comparability  exercise  that  was  performed  to  support  these  changes  was 
considered satisfactory. 
The  drug  substance  has  been  comprehensively  characterised,  using  state-of-the-art  methods  for 
physicochemical  characteristics.  The  biological  properties  of  ranibizumab  have  been  properly 
characterised  and  the  potency  assay  that  was  chosen  is  considered  adequate.  Results  demonstrated 
good consistency between lots. 
RP-HPLC was used in the characterisation of the reference material and showed one significant side 
peak. The applicant provided sufficient evidence to support the fact that this side peak is an analytical 
artefact and therefore to rule out the possibility that it represents misfolded ranibizumab material. 
Overall,  impurities  have  been  properly  identified  and  characterised.  Concerns  that  have  been  raised 
during  the  assessment  regarding  the  multi-product  ELISA  assay  used  for  the  quantification  of  ECP, 
which included qualification of the critical reagents, have been satisfactorily addressed. 
The drug substance specification limits have been provided and are considered acceptable. However, 
the  applicant  committed  to  re-evaluate  the  specification  limits,  including  those  for  ECP,  SEC,  CE-
SDS, IEC, after three post-approval commercial campaigns (comprising a minimum of 30 additional 
runs). 
The  stability  data  that  was  provided  for  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  support  the  proposed 
shelf  life  of  36  months  at  ≤ −20°C  and  90  days  at  5°C  including  three  freeze/thaw  cycles,  and  18 
months at 2-8°C, respectively. 
The formulation development and manufacturing process development for the drug product have been 
adequately described. 
In general, the validation program has confirmed that the manufacturing process is robust and suitable 
for routine use and that a drug product of an appropriate quality can be consistently manufactured. 
The control of drug product relies to a large extent on the same analytical methods as those used for 
the control of the drug substance. Therefore, most points for clarification raised during the assessment 
relating to the control of the drug substance apply to the drug product. The drug product specifications 
are considered acceptable. 
The viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents, including TSE, have been sufficiently 
assured. 
The  last  inspection  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  manufacturing  facilities  showed 
compliance to EU cGMP. 
7/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except  for  a  number  of  quality  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-approval  follow-up 
measures, the quality of Lucentis has been adequately demonstrated. 
33..  
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacology 
(cid:131)  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The  process  of  angiogenesis  is  multi-factorial  and  highly  complex,  but  VEGF  is  considered  critical 
both in physiological and in pathological angiogenesis, such as in AMD. VEGF has shown to promote 
growth  of  vascular  endothelial  cells  in  vitro  and  induces  a  potent  angiogenic  response  and  vascular 
leakage  in  a  variety  of  in  vivo  models.  Elevated  levels  of  VEGF  have  been  found  in  pathological 
neovascularisation,  both  in  experimental  models  and  in  AMD.  Consequently,  the  approach  to  target 
VEGF in AMD is considered relevant. 
Ranibizumab  is  the  Fab  moiety  of  a  recombinant  humanised  monoclonal  antibody  rhuMAb 
accomplished  by  site  directed  mutagenesis  of  a  human  IgG1  framework  (95%)  with  murine 
complementarity-determining  regions  (5%).  Ranibizumab  binds  with  high  affinity  to  the  VEGF-A 
isoforms (e.g. VEGF110, VEGF121 and VEGF165). The binding is strong (in the subnanomolar region), 
dissociates  slowly  and  it  is  likely  that  once  the  ranibizumab-VEGF  complex  is  formed,  it  is  very 
stable.  
Ranibizumab  dose-dependently  inhibited  VEGF-induced  proliferation  in  human  umbilical  vein 
endothelial cell (HUVEC), which are cells that express the VEGF-receptors, with IC50 values below 1 
nM.  This  is  10-20-fold  over  clinical  Cmax.  Roughly  approximated  IC10  levels  were  somewhat  higher 
than the clinical Cmax values (1.7 ng/ml predicted at steady state, maximal individual level 2.4 ng/ml) 
and  consequently,  no  significant  systemic  VEGF-inhibiting  activity  is  expected  in  humans.  A  total 
inhibition  of  proliferation  was  observed  at  ranibizumab  concentrations  ≥  1.3  nM.  Ranibizumab 
inhibited rhVEGF165-induced tissue factor up-regulation in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 of 
0.31 nM.  
No studies were carried out with the other isoforms. VEGF is highly conserved between species, and it 
is  shown  that  ranibizumab  has  a  high,  but  40-fold  reduced,  affinity  towards  rabbit  VEGF  in 
comparison  with  human  VEGF.  There  is  no  information  on  the  affinity  of  ranibizumab  to  monkey 
VEGF.  Identification  of  the  sequence  differences  between  monkey  and  humans  (99%  sequence 
homology,  alignment  predicting  the  protein  products)  resulted  in  a  prediction  of  a  100%  homology 
between the species on a protein level. Still, it is not shown that the binding activity of ranibizumab to 
VEGF  from  the  two  species  is  identical.  It  is  however  agreed  that  it  is  likely  that  the  monkey  and 
human  protein  sequence  are  very  similar,  or  even  identical  and  a  high  activity  on  monkey  VEGF  is 
expected. For intraocular administration, this is considered sufficient.   
The Applicant has generated in vivo studies that show that that intravitreal/intravitreous (IVT) injected 
ranibizumab blocks VEGF-induced vascular permeability in a modified Miles assay. The data indicate 
that a 90% inhibition of vascular permeability may be achieved when ranibizumab concentrations are 
approximately  4−7  times  larger  than  VEGF  concentrations.  The  in  vivo  disease  model  used  was  the 
well established model of laser-induced CNV, in this case, in monkeys. There was a lower incidence 
of  CNV-development  in  animals  treated  with  IVT  injected  ranibizumab  before  laser  induction  of 
CNV,  giving  some  support  for  the  anti-angiogenic  effect  in  the  eye.  It  was  also  shown  that 
ranibizumab  (0.5  mg  every  2nd  week)  inhibited  vascular  leakage  from  the  CNV-lesions.  Verteporfin 
with PDT given before, after or concomitant with ranibizumab (2 mg every 2nd week) gave an additive 
effect on the inhibition of vascular leakage without any apparent increase in side effects. Additional in 
vivo  models,  like  the  retinopathy  of  prematurity  model,  more  directly  addressing  the  antiangiogenic 
properties of ranibizumab might have given additional support. 
8/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From  a  proof  of  principle  point  of  view,  the  submitted  studies,  even  though  limited,  are  considered 
sufficient.  However  adequate  support  for  the  clinical  dosing  regimen  has  not  been  provided,  the 
rationale was only briefly addressed in a submitted publication. This is however further addressed in 
the  clinical  part  of  the  assessment,  since  at  this  stage  of  development  this  is  considered  to  be  most 
accurately studied in patients. 
(cid:131)  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
There were no specific secondary pharmacodynamic studies, but the Applicant has submitted a study 
confirming that no complement-dependent cytotoxicity or antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity is 
expected, which is consistent with the lack of Fc region in ranibizumab. Besides the expected binding 
to VEGF165 (and the murine variant VEGF164), the binding of ranibizumab to other members of VEGF 
family  (human  VEGF-B,  mouse  placental  growth  factor-2    (PlGF-2),  human  PlGF  -  the  short-form 
PlGF,  which  is  homologous  to  the  receptor-binding  domain  of  VEGF165  where  ranibizumab  binds, 
human  VEGF-C,  and  human  VEGF-D)  was  negligible.  Theoretically,  ranibizumab  could  bind  to  an 
‘off-target’ protein. However, since ranibizumab appears to be very specific for the VEGF-A variants, 
it  is  considered  unlikely  that  ranibizumab  should  bind  with  a  relevant  affinity  to  other  more  distant 
relatives to VEGF, or to a non-related target. The full-length counterpart (GN1754) of ranibizumab did 
not however, show any specific staining to a panel of several normal human tissues. Some binding to 
VEGF,  for  example  to  vascular  endothelial  cells  and  to  reproductive  organs  including  the  placenta, 
which  is  a  tissue  undergoing  active  angiogenesis,  would  have  been  expected  and  the  value  of  this 
assay is uncertain.  
(cid:131)  Safety pharmacology 
No  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  performed.  This  was  justified  by  the  incorporation  of  safety 
pharmacology  endpoints  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  and  the  human  systemic  exposure  being 
below  levels  where  any  meaningful  effect  of  a  VEGF-related  activity  is  expected.  The  absence  of 
systemic  toxicity  at  exposure  levels  highly  above  maximum  clinical  exposure  (see  Toxicology)  is 
further reassuring and the lack of formal safety pharmacology studies is accepted.  
(cid:131)  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were performed and no justification for omitting such 
studies was submitted. Besides the probability that Lucentis will be combined with PDT, which has 
been addressed, other potential interactions require that a sufficient exposure is achieved. Therefore it 
is considered that the justification for not performing any pharmacokinetic interactions is considered 
valid also with respect to pharmacodynamic interactions (see below). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Overall,  dose-dependent  pharmacokinetics  of  ranibizumab  is  suggested  after  IVT  injection  where 
systemic  levels  are  dependent  of  the  relatively  slow  release  of  ranibizumab  from  the  vitreous.  In 
rabbits and monkeys, serum levels were >1000-fold lower than vitreous concentrations. The levels in 
aqueous humour and retina were 2.5 – 4-fold lower than the vitreous levels. All appeared to decline in 
parallel with the vitreous concentrations. Drug clearance from the vitreous is reported to be dependent 
on molecular size and the measured T½ of ~3 days is reasonable for a Fab fragment. The release from 
the eye is, in part, due to diffusion and species with bigger eyes, like humans, would be expected to 
have slower vitreous clearance. Other factors, like a more or less liquid vitreous may also affect the 
release. For example, rabbits have an almost liquefied vitreous, while in humans it is in a gel state. The 
Applicant has not presented any attempts to extrapolate animal data to humans. Even though this may 
be a challenge taking the differences above into account, such an attempt would have been desired.  
The  pharmacokintetics  of  ranibizumab  manufactured  by  different  processes  and  cell  lines  were 
comparable as studied in rabbits.  
Ocular  degradation  is  suggested  to  be  limited,  since  the  systemic  bioavailability  was  50  -  60%  at  2 
days post IVT injections to monkeys. At infinity, the systemic bioavailability is likely to be close to 
100%. No studies on the metabolism of ranibizumab have been performed, but as with other proteins, 
9/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
once  reaching  the  systemic  circulation,  if  not  excreted,  ranibizumab  is  most  likely  degraded  in  the 
liver or kidney.  
Ranibizumab is distributed to aqueous humour, tissues in the anterior segment, to the retina and optic 
nerve.  Immunohistochemistry  and  micro-autoradiography  studies  showed  that  ranibizumab  is 
distributed through the retinal layers to the RPE (retinal pigment epithelium) and only low levels were 
found in the choroid, the target tissue. From the clinical efficacy data, ranibizumab had a convincing 
effect  also  in  subjects  with  occult  AMD,  which  occurs  under  the  RPE.  This  indicates  that  sufficient 
amounts of ranibizumab affect tissues that lie below the retina.  
Due  to  the  low  systemic  levels  of  ranibizumab,  systemic  pharmacokinetic  interactions  are  not 
expected. Likewise, since systemically or topically delivered drugs barely reach the posterior segment 
of the eye, also these interactions are of no concern. The potential for intraocular drug interaction with 
the use of ranibizumab in combination with PDT was however addressed. The pharmacokinetic profile 
of ranibizumab was not notably different when verteporfin with PDT was added to the treatment. This 
is further addressed in the clinical assessment. 
Toxicology 
All pivotal toxicity studies were performed according to GLP. 
(cid:131)  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose ocular toxicity (local tolerance) studies with IVT injections were performed in rabbits. In 
these  studies,  material  from  early  processes  and  a  formulation  used  in  early  clinical  trials  was 
compared with that of a later process /formulation for phase III clinical trials and the 26-week toxicity 
study.  There  were  no  major  differences  between  the  formulations  in  any  study.  Changes  during 
manufacturing have been sufficiently addressed and there are no toxicological concerns regarding the 
impurity profile of Lucentis. Essentially, the effects observed in the single dose studies were restricted 
to  ocular  inflammation.  The  single  dose  studies  were  not  according  to  present  guidelines,  and  the 
maximum  tolerated  systemic  dose  was  not  determined.  It  is  considered  that  with  the  present 
knowledge  of  the  effects  of  VEGF-inhibition  together  with  the  information  from  repeat  dose  ocular 
toxicity studies, additional studies would not add to the safety evaluation of ranibizumab. 
(cid:131)  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
All  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys,  a  reasonable  choice  of 
species, in studies up to 26-weeks duration. Ranibizumab was administered bilaterally by 50 µl IVT 
injections every 2nd week at doses of up to 2.0 mg/eye. The control eyes received vehicle by the same 
method  and  regimen.  The  toxicokinetic  profile  was  consistent  with  the  data  observed  in  the 
pharmacokinetic characterisation of ranibizumab, i.e. vitreous levels were generally > 1000-fold over 
serum levels. Repeated dosing did not indicate any accumulation of ranibizumab, either in serum or in 
vitreous. As in the pharmacokinetic part of the file, also in the toxicokinetic evaluation, a number of 
control and pre-dose animals had low, but measurable levels of ranibizumab. The Applicant suggests 
that  ranibizumab  binds  to  an  unknown  molecule  in  a  non-specific  manner  and,  consequently,  the 
serum levels of ranibizumab may be overestimated, which would be most apparent at lower levels of 
ranibizumab.  The  performance  of  the  ranibizumab-assay  is  not  fully  convincing,  but  the  risk  that 
control  animals  have  been  given  ranibizumab  appears  low.  Consequently,  the  low  levels  of 
ranibizumab  found  in  control/pre-dose  animals  are  not  considered  to  jeopardise  the  integrity  of  the 
studies. 
Besides the development of antibodies towards ranibizumab, there were no apparent systemic effects 
(assessment of body weights, food consumption, heart rate, rectal body temperature, respiration rate, 
haematology, coagulation, clinical chemistry tests, macroscopic observations and microscopy of extra-
ocular  tissues)  in  any  study  at  systemic  exposures  of  at  least  1000-fold  over  the  clinical  maximal 
exposure. Since the ranibizumab ELISA used in the non-clinical part of the application measures free 
ranibizumab, while the electrochemiluminescence assay (ECLA) used for the clinical pharmacokinetic 
studies  measures  also  ranibizumab  bound  to  VEGF,  the  margin  to  clinical  exposure  could  be  larger 
than  indicated  by  the  toxicokinetic  data.  There  were  also  no  consistent  decreases  in  ocular  VEGF 
10/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levels  in  animals  and  no  effects  on  serum  VEGF-levels  in  humans.  Consequently,  from  a  systemic 
view-point  there  are  sufficient  margins  of  safety  and  therefore,  the  lack  of  standard  systemic 
toxicology studies is acceptable. Only ocular findings are addressed below.  
The  NOEL  or  NOAEL  were  not  identified  in  any  of  the  studies,  since  all  doses  tested  (0.25-2  mg) 
resulted in an ocular inflammation. Part of this inflammation was due to the injection procedure, but in 
ranibizumab-treated eyes, the inflammation was more pronounced and dose-related. The IVT injection 
procedure  as  such  is  not  without  risks  for  serious  adverse  events  such  as  endophthalmitis,  retinal 
detachments and increased intraocular pressure (IOP). These effects are well known and are handled 
in the Risk Management plan. Also in the monkey studies, injection of vehicle or ranibizumab induced 
a transient 2-5-fold increase in IOP and some cases of endophthalmitis were observed.  
The anterior chamber ocular inflammation was dose-dependent, relatively rapid (peaked at day 2 post 
injection)  and  transient.  In  the  vitreous,  it  was  later  (peaked  at  week  1  post  injection)  and  more 
persistent. In shorter studies, the inflammation was most severe after the first injection and subsided 
thereafter.  Pre-  and  post-dose  treatment  with  oral  and  topical  prednisone  (9-week  study)  did  not 
decrease the inflammatory response. In the 26-week study, the inflammatory response increased with 
the number of injections and a number of animals prematurely discontinued the study due to a dense 
vitreous  inflammation  severely  impairing  the  view  of  the  fundus.  Data  from  these  animals  were 
handled according to the LOCF (last observation carried forward) approach, which is considered to be 
adequate. During recovery, anterior chamber inflammation decreased or disappeared, while a decrease 
in vitreous and tissue inflammatory cells was observed.  
Two types of posterior segment changes were observed in ranibizumab-treated groups. The first form, 
observed in the 9- and 26-week studies, was characterised by single to multifocal, perivenous retinal 
haemorrhages typically with white centres in the far peripheral retina. These lesions usually appeared 
after  the  first  dose,  resolved  by  week  1  post  dose,  and  were  absent  or  diminished  on  subsequent 
injections, even if the dose was increased. The mechanism behind this finding is not clear, neither is 
the  lack  of  this  finding  in  the  4-  and  13-week  studies.  The  Applicant  hypothesises  that  the 
haemorrhages may be related to dose, or to injection-related trauma, or to the increase in IOP. Since 
retinal  haemorrhages  occurred  less  frequently  in  ranibizumab-treated  than  in  non-treated  patients 
(which is consistent with ranibizumab’s mode of action) in the pivotal clinical studies (MARINA, 2-
year data and ANCHOR, 1 year data), the finding appears to be of limited clinical relevance.  
The  second  form,  a  dose-  and  time-related  focal  to  multifocal,  perivascular  sheathing  (vasculitis) 
around  peripheral  retinal  venules  with  inflammatory  material  over  the  optic  disc  surface  was  more 
chronic in nature and considered secondary to inflammation. These changes  diminished, but did not 
resolve  during  recovery.  Also  a  wide-spread  ocular  tissue  inflammation  that  was  dose  and  time-
dependent was observed. From the 26-week study, it was suggested that an early onset of perivascular 
sheathing  could  be  a  marker  for  a  later  severe  inflammatory  response  since  all  animals  that  were 
withdrawn from dosing due exhibited perivascular sheathing prior to withdrawal. However, there was 
no  obvious  correlation  between  the  onset  of  the  perivascular  sheathing  and  the  severity  of  the 
inflammatory  response  in  monkeys.  In  clinical  studies,  most  severe  cases  of  inflammation  were  not 
preceded  by  vasculitis  and  occurrence  of  perivascular  sheathing  after  the  outbreak  of  severe 
inflammation has not been reported, possibly due to the difficulties to view the fundus in eyes with a 
severe inflammation. Therefore, the perivascular sheathing does not appear to be a useful marker for 
prediction of severe cases of inflammation in patients. 
In the 26-week study, several cases of cataracts were observed. In all cases, cataract developed only 
after  a  relatively  long  period  of  intense  inflammation  suggesting  that  the  lens  changes  were  also 
secondary to a chronic inflammation. 
Ranibizumab  consists  mainly  of  human  protein.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that  it  is  highly 
immunogenic in rabbits as shown in the single-dose ocular toxicity studies. A significant antigenicity 
was observed also in monkeys, even within the eye. The lack of information on whether the antibodies 
formed  are  neutralising,  appears  to  be  of  minor  importance  since  a  clinical  effect  is  shown.  Most 
monkeys with perivascular sheathing were positive for antibodies towards ranibizumab, indicating an 
11/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immune-related  effect  which  has  not  been  observed  clinically.  The  healthy  eye  is  considered  as  an 
immunoprivileged site, but after repeated IVT injections, the blood-brain-barrier is disrupted. Further, 
in AMD, permeable vessels are a hallmark of the disease and it can not be excluded that antibodies 
towards  ranibizumab  may  also  be  formed  in  the  human  eye.  It  is  recognised  that  development  of 
ocular antibodies can not be assessed in humans, but serum antibodies were found in 1-4% of treated 
subjects  (and  also  in  non-treated  patients).  The  Applicant  has  reviewed  the  patient  data  (see  Risk 
Management  Plan),  but  no  clear  correlation  between  antibodies  to  ranibizumab  and  ocular 
inflammation or decrease in visual acuity in Lucentis-treated patients was found. However, a relation 
between antibody formation to ranibizumab and the development of intraocular inflammation cannot 
be  completely  ruled  out.  Therefore,  monitoring  of  possible  clinical  signs  attributable  to  intraocular 
antibody formation (such as intraocular inflammation) will be performed continuously.  
The initial interspecies comparison addressed the previously filed 0.3 mg dose of Lucentis. Since the 
Applicant has decided to change the dose to 0.5 mg, the margins to clinical exposure are reduced. In 
the vitreous, only the lowest dose tested (1.0-fold the clinical 0.5 mg dose on a mg/ml vitreous basis) 
in  the  13-week  study  gave  an  inflammatory  response  that  subsided  to  levels  comparable  to  those 
observed in vehicle-injected animals while the animals were still on treatment. In the 26-week study, 
from  doses  1.9-fold  the  clinical  dose  (0.5 mg  dose,  mg/ml  vitreous),  the  inflammatory  response 
increased  with  the  number  of  injections.  Besides  the  issue  of  immunogenicity,  the  degree  of 
inflammation could be affected by the frequent dosing (every 2nd week), not allowing sufficient time 
for recovery between injections. The Applicant was requested to discuss more in depth the aetiology 
of  the  inflammatory  ocular  reactions  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  a  plausible  reasoning  has  been 
provided.  The  Applicant  concludes  that  the  available  evidence  suggests  that  inflammatory  ocular 
reactions  in  cynomolgus  are  immune  related  responses  linked  to  the  administration  of  a  humanised 
protein  to  animals  and  unlikely  to  occur  at  notable  incidences  in  humans  as  shown  by  the  clinical 
safety and antigenicity data collected. Furthermore, in the clinic, the ocular inflammation appears to be 
non-serious and easily manageable.  
There  is  abundant  evidence  that  VEGF  has  neuroprotective  effects  which  raises  concern  when  the 
biologically  active  isoforms  of  VEGF  are  blocked  with  ranibizumab.  Therefore,  it  is  reassuring  that 
there  were  no  apparent  signs  of  nerve  toxicity  as  evaluated  with  VEP  (visual  evoked  potential)  and 
ERG (electroretinogram). However, it was a full-field ERG, and small retinal lesions are not likely to 
be  observed  with  this  method.  The  lack  of  macular  abnormalities  was  on  the  other  hand  confirmed 
with  VEP.  Histopathologically,  besides  inflammatory  infiltrates  in  retinal  tissues,  there  were  no 
apparent  degenerative  effects  on  neural  retinal  or  other  ocular  structures.  In  addition,  clinically,  a 
significant proportion of the patients actually gain vision, which would not be the case if  the neural 
retina was impaired. Still, it can not be excluded that there may be long-term adverse effects of VEGF-
inhibition. 
By  blocking  VEGF,  wound  healing  could  be  impaired.  With  respect  to  ranibizumab,  the  levels  that 
reach the systemic circulation are considered to be below those that have a pharmacologically relevant 
effect.  However,  if  ocular  surgery  is  indicated,  local  wound  healing  may  be  impaired  and  a 
recommendation to withhold the next dose if intraocular surgery is planned is incorporated in the SPC 
section 4.4.  
(cid:131)  Genotoxicity & carcinogenicity 
There were no studies on genotoxicity or carcinogenicity. This is acceptable due to the nature of the 
compound.  
(cid:131)  Reproduction Toxicity 
No reproduction toxicology studies were performed. This was justified by the low systemic exposure 
of a compound for which the mechanism of action is well characterised during development, and the 
median age of the AMD-population (over 70 years). The justifications are considered to be acceptable, 
but if ranibizumab should be intended in an indication in a younger population, a segment II study is 
needed. 
12/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Other toxicity studies 
No additional studies were performed.   
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
There is no environmental concern. 
44..  
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
In relation to this dossier, scientific advice has been obtained from the CHMP.   
The submitted documentation consists of seven clinical studies including patients with neovascular 
AMD (see Table below). 
Table 1  
Study overview 
Study 
(Phase) 
FVF2598g 
MARINA 
(III) 
FVF2587g  
ANCHOR 
(III) 
Design (Sites) 
Population 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
sham-
controlled 
(U.S.) 
Randomised, 
double-masked, 
double-sham, b 
active 
treatment− 
controlled 
(U.S., Europe, 
and Australia) 
Subjects with 
minimally 
classic or 
occult 
subfoveal 
neovascular 
AMD 
Subjects with 
predominantly 
classic 
subfoveal 
neovascular 
AMD 
No. of  
Subjects 
Enrolled 
Pivotal Phase III Studies 
Control 
Sham 
injection 
716 
423 
Verteporfin 
PDT  
(+ sham 
injection) 
FVF3192g 
PIER 
(IIIb) 
sham-
controlled 
(US) 
Sham 
184 
Subjects with 
all lesion types 
of neovascular 
AMD in the 
active state 
Treatment 
Frequency 
and 
Duration 
IVT inj. inj. 
every 
month, 
maximum of 
24 total inj. 
over 2 years 
IVT 
inj.every 
month, 
maximum of 
24 total inj. 
over 2 years, 
or 
verteporfin 
PDT every 
3 months as 
needed 
IVT inj 
every month 
trough 
Month 3, 
and then 
quarterly 
Ranibizumab 
Dose(s) 
Status 
Completed 
Ongoing to 
2 years 
Ongoing to 
2 years 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238), 
0.5 mg 
(n = 240),  
sham inj. 
(n = 238) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 140),  
0.5 mg 
(n = 140),  
sham inj. 
(n = 143) 
0.3 mg (n = 
60 ),  
0.5 mg (n = 
61 ),  
sham inj. 
(n = 63) 
13/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design (Sites) 
Population 
Control 
No. of  
Subjects 
Enrolled 
Treatment 
Frequency 
and 
Duration 
Ranibizumab 
Dose(s) 
Status 
Study 
(Phase) 
FVF2428g 
FOCUS 
(I/II) 
Phase I/II Studies 
Subjects with 
predominantly 
classic 
neovascular 
AMD 
162 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(+ sham 
injection) 
Randomised, 
single-masked, 
sham-
controlled, 
combination 
treatment  
(U.S.) 
FVF2128g 
(I/II) 
Randomised, 
open-label, 
dose-escalation 
(U.S.) 
Subjects with 
classic 
neovascular 
AMD 
Usual care 
c 
64 d 
Phase I Studies 
None 
29 d 
FVF2425g 
(I) 
Randomised, 
open-label,  
multiple-dose 
escalating 
regimens 
(U.S.) 
Subjects with 
neovascular 
AMD 
IVT inj. 
every 
month, 
maximum of 
24 total inj. 
over 2 years, 
in combi-
nation with 
verteporfin 
PDT every 
3 months as 
needed 
IVT inj. 
every 4 
weeks, 
maximum of 
8 total inj. 
over 
28 weeks, or 
usual care 
with 
crossover to 
ranibizumab 
treatment 
after 14 
weeks 
IVT inj. at 
2- or 4-week 
intervals,  
maximum of 
5, 7, or 9 
total inj. 
over 16 
weeks 
Ongoing 
0.5 mg 
(n = 106),  
sham inj. 
(n = 56) 
Completed 
0.3 mg 
(n = 25),  
0.3 mg initial 
dose escalated 
to 0.5 mg for 
subsequent 
doses (n = 28), 
usual care 
(n = 11) 
Completed 
Completed 
0.3 mg to 1.0 
mg escalating 
regimen, 7 
total inj. 
(n = 9), 
0.3 mg to 2.0 
mg escalating 
regimen, 9 
total inj. 
(n = 10), 
0.3 mg to 2.0 
mg escalating 
regimen, 5 
total inj. 
(n = 10) 
0.05 mg 
(n = 6),  
0.15 mg 
(n = 6),  
0.30 mg 
(n = 6),  
0.50 mg 
(n = 7), 
1.0 mg (n = 2) 
FVF1770g 
(I) 
Open-label,  
single-dose 
escalation 
(U.S.) 
Subjects with 
neovascular 
AMD 
None 
27 
Single IVT 
inj. 
14/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric development of this therapeutic principle is not relevant, since AMD affects the elderly 
population only. 
GCP 
According  to  the  applicant,  the  clinical  development  of  ranibizumab  was  conducted  in  accordance 
with  U.S.  FDA  regulations  and  with  the  principles  of  the  EU  Clinical  Trial  Directive  (Directive 
2001/20/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  4  April  2001,  e.g.  ICH  GCP  and 
Declaration of Helsinki). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  ranibizumab  is  of  limited  relevance  due  to  the  low  clinical  systemic 
exposure.  Some  aspects  of 
the 
pharmacokinetics is of secondary interest.  
the  safety  assessment  may  be  addressed  but  generally, 
A  total  of  six  clinical  trials  (FVF1770g,  FVF2425g,  FVF2128g,  FVF2428g,  FVF2598g  and 
FVF2587g)  evaluated  systemic  ranibizumab  concentrations  in  subjects  who  received  doses  ranging 
from 0.05 to 2.0 mg/eye either as a single dose or in a multiple-dose regimen at a frequency ranging 
from every 2 weeks to every month, for up to 12 months. All studies were conducted in subjects with 
neovascular AMD. 
An ECLA for the quantitation of ranibizumab was developed and used in all studies. The minimum 
quantifiable  concentration  was  300  pg/ml.  A  few  samples  of  vitreous  fluid  were  obtained  from 
subjects  who  underwent  medically  necessary  vitrectomy.  These  samples  were  analyzed  for 
ranibizumab by an ELISA.  
Given  the  IVT  route  of  administration  for  ranibizumab  and  the  limited  absorption  into  the  systemic 
circulation,  systemic  pharmacokinetic  data  are  sparse.  Hence,  the  systemic  pharmacokinetics  of 
ranibizumab was best described in the population analysis using pooled data from five clinical trials 
(Studies  FVF1770g,  FVF2128g,  FVF2425g,  FVF2428g,  and  FVF2598g),  as  each  study  did  not 
provide  sufficient  information  for  individual  estimation  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters.  Serum 
concentration-time  data  from  Study  FVF2587g  and  the  second  year  of  Studies  FVF2428g  and 
FVF2598g were not available at the time of this analysis and was not included. 
The  base  model  was  a  one-compartment  model  with  a  linear  rate  of  absorption  from  the  vitreous 
compartment,  and  a  proportional  error.  The  full  covariate  model  included  CrCL  as  a  predictor  of 
clearance and concomitant verteporfin PDT treatment as a predictor of the rate of absorption. A total 
of 2993 serum samples were collected from 674 subjects, of which 675 samples from 238 subjects had 
measurable concentrations that were included in the data set. Rich sampling was applied in 89 of the 
subjects while the sampling was sparse in the remaining subjects.  
The  following  information,  which  is  mostly based  on  the  population  analysis,  is  available  regarding 
the pharmacokinetics ranibizumab.  
(cid:131)  Absorption  
Following IVT administration, the time for ranibizumab to reach the maximum concentration in serum 
is  0.5  days,  and  the  concentration  of  ranibizumab  in  the  vitreous  humour  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately 90,000 times of that in the systemic circulation. The systemic elimination half-life was 
estimated to be 2 hours, whereas the vitreous elimination half-life was estimated to be approximately 9 
days.  Because  the  rate  of  vitreous  elimination  is  the  rate-limiting  step,  the  apparent  half-life  of 
ranibizumab in serum after IVT administration is equivalent to the vitreous elimination half-life.  
(cid:131)  Distribution 
The distribution of ranibizumab is limited to the volume of plasma (3 litres), which is expected as for 
drugs with high molecular weight.  
15/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant compared the concentration of ranibizumab in vitreous samples collected from a limited 
number of subjects with simulated vitreous concentrations. Due to the small number of subjects, the 
validity of the simulated vitreous concentration-time profiles is difficult to assess. 
(cid:131)  Elimination 
The  metabolism  and  the  excretion  of  ranibizumab  were  not  investigated.  Based  on  data  from  Study 
FVF1770g, it is concluded that ranibizumab exhibits roughly proportional kinetics in the dose range 
0.05-1 mg. 
(cid:131)  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Regarding exposure relevant for the safety evaluation, the predicted maximum serum concentration of 
ranibizumab  at  steady  state,  1.7  ng/ml  (95th  percentile),  is  below  the  ranibizumab  concentration 
necessary to inhibit the biological activity of VEGF by 50%, 11-27 ng/ml, as assessed in an in vitro 
cellular proliferation assay. 
(cid:131)  Special populations 
The information regarding pharmacokinetics in special populations is based on the population analysis 
and  suggests  an  increased  exposure  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  and  a  lower  systemic  Cmax  in 
subjects  receiving  concomitant  verteporfin  PDT  without  any  significant  influence  of  age,  gender  or 
total body weight. These findings are not considered clinically relevant as the decrease in CL/F was 
small in comparison to the inter-individual variability of this parameter and the change in ka, will only 
lower the systemic Cmax and not affect the systemic AUC of ranibizumab. 
(cid:131)  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal interaction studies have been performed, which is acceptable as the interaction potential is 
considered low. Considering that ranibizumab is a Fab and reaches only very low systemic levels after 
IVT administration, drug-drug interactions with ranibizumab outside of the ocular chamber are highly 
unlikely. Furthermore, since the vast majority of systemically or topically administered drugs barely 
penetrate the ocular chamber, drug-drug interactions with ranibizumab within the ocular compartment 
are also highly unlikely. 
Pharmacodynamic 
Ranibizumab  is  stated  to  exert  inhibitory  effects  on  angiogenesis  and  stabilising  actions  on  vessel 
permeability  through  the  blocking  of  VEGF165,  121  and  110.  Proof  of  concept  was  sought  in  phase  III 
where  CNV  membrane  growth  and  leakage  was  explored  as  a  secondary  outcome  measure  with 
fluorescein  angiography  and  to  a  lesser  extent  with  ocular  coherence  tomography  (OCT)  as  an 
exploratory analysis. The methods are deemed justified. 
Pharmacodynamic  data  from  the  ranibizumab/verteporfin  combination  experiments,  in  which 
ranibizumab and verteporfin were administered concomitantly or sequentially, did not suggest in vivo 
pharmacological or pharmacokinetic interactions under "therapeutic" conditions. 
No  specific  studies  dedicated  to  pharmacodynamics  have  been  performed.  This  is  to  some  degree 
justifiable  as  no  obvious  biomarker  exists  that  could  allow  for  a  reasonable  interpretation  of  the 
pharmacodynamic  studies.  The  pharmacodynamics  hence  relies  on  in  vitro  data,  animal  and  human 
efficacy studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  submitted  documentation  consists  of  seven  clinical  studies  including  patients  with  neovascular 
AMD (see Table above).  
The 1-year results of the two pivotal Phase III studies (FVF2598g, MARINA, started in March 2003 
and  FVF2587g,  ANCHOR,  started  in  May  2003),  including  378  randomised  patients  on  the  0.3  mg 
dose and 380 patients on the 0.5 mg dose, constituted the main body of the dossier at the time of the 
initial submission.  
16/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has now submitted, 2-year data from MARINA (FVF2598g), as well as one-year data 
from a study PIER (FVF3192) exploring a less frequent posology. The 2-year data from FVF 2587g 
(ANCHOR) and PIER (FVF3192) are pending. 
(cid:131)  Dose response  
A strong rationale for the dose level and dosing interval has from an efficacy point of view, has not 
been presented. In vitro and preclinical data identified 0.05 mg to 2 mg as a candidate dose range used 
in the phase I and I/II program, but the latter do not form a firm basis for further dose definition, other 
than  providing  a  safety  dossier  indicating  an  acceptable  adverse  event  profile  besides  the  events  of 
intraocular inflammation.  
It was also a  matter of concern that the two dose levels explored were close in strength and that no 
formal  dose  response  studies  were  performed.  It  is  therefore  appreciated  that  ongoing  study  (FVF 
3192g PIER) explores a less frequent dosing interval. 
(cid:131)  Main studies  
The 1-year results as well as the 2-year data of the pivotal study FVF 2598 MARINA (sham controlled 
study in patients with occult and minimally classic CNV lesions) as well as FVF 2587 ANCHOR (a 
PDT controlled study in patients with predominantly classic lesions) are described below. Both studies 
explored  both  0.3  mg  and  0.5  mg  ranibizumab  injected  monthly  IVT.  The  objectives  were  to  show 
superiority vs. sham in FVF 2598 and non-inferiority vs. PDT in FVF 2587.  
In  addition,  the  1-year  data  will  be  presented  from  FVF  3192  PIER  (sham  controlled  including  all 
lesions of neovascular AMD) exploring a 3-month dosing interval after a 3-month loading phase with 
monthly injections using the same doses. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria: 
Study FVF 2598 (ANCHOR) 
FVF2598g eligible patients had to fulfil among others that: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
age ≥ 50 years 
if classic CNV was present, the area of classic CNV had to be < 50% of the total lesion size 
total  area  of  CNV  (including  both  classic  and  occult  components)  encompassed  within  the 
lesion ≥ 50% of the total lesion area,  
total lesion area ≤ 12 disc areas (DA) in size and 
best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study 
(ETDRS) visual acuity charts, of 20/40 to 20/320 (Snellen equivalent) in the study eye. (Only 
one  eye  was  assessed  in  the  study.  If both  eyes  were  eligible,  the  one  with  the  better  visual 
acuity was selected for treatment and study unless, based on medical reasons, the investigator 
deemed the other eye the more appropriate candidate for treatment and study). 
Study FVF 2587 (MARINA) 
-  Same as the above outlined criteria regarding age, BCVA and selection of one eye only. 
-  CNV:  Lesion  needed  to  be  active  and  have  characteristics  that  qualified  for  treatment  with 
verteporfin  PDT  in  the  study  eye,  according  to  the  Visudyne  product  labelling  and  future 
treatment with verteporfin PDT anticipated or expected in the study eye. 
-  Total lesion size requirement: < 5400 µm in greatest linear dimension.  
Main exclusion criteria for FVF 2598 and FVF 2587: 
-  Previous treatment for neovascular AMD (PDT was however allowed in the fellow eye if 
performed > 1 wk before study start).  
-  Previous intraocular treatment of any sort in the study eye (except for extrafoveal laser 
photocoagulation in the study eye).  
17/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  As for lesion characteristics, patients with subretinal haemorrhage in the study eye that involved 
the centre of the fovea were disallowed if the size of the haemorrhage was either >50% of the 
total lesion area or >1 DA in size or if there was subfoveal fibrosis or atrophy in the study eye. 
-  In terms of concurrent ocular conditions, patients with disorders that would have an impact on 
visual function during the study course were excluded (e.g. ongoing infection, history of retinal 
detachment or macular hole, diabetic retinopathy, uveitis, uncontrolled glaucoma, previous 
corneal transplant, recent cataract surgery etc).  
Study FVF 3192 (PIER): Same as above but all subtypes of lesions were included. 
Treatments 
Doses of 0.3 mg or 0.5 mg of ranibizumab, or in studies FVF 2587 and FVF 3192, a sham injection (a 
blunt  syringe  directed  towards  the  sclera)  were  administered  once  every  month.  Following 
subconjunctival injection of anaesthetics, a 30-gauge, ½-inch needle, attached to a low-volume (e.g., 
tuberculin) syringe containing 50 µL of study drug solution, was inserted approximately 3.5–4.0 mm 
posterior to the limbus. The scleral site for subsequent IVT injections was rotated. 
An antiseptic program including self-administration of antibiotics prior to and after the injection was 
implemented.  Other  features  of  the  program  were  cleansing  of  the  eyelid  and  the  conjunctiva  with 
antiseptics. 
In  FVF  2587,  PDT  and  sham  PDT  (because  of  the  dummy  design)  were  treatment  alternatives. 
Verteporfin  PDT  was  administered  in  accordance  with  the  Visudyne  prescribing  information.  Sham 
PDT consisted of saline infusion followed by the actual laser irradiation in accordance with Visudyne 
prescribed procedure. Following Day 0, the evaluating physician determined the need for PDT every 3 
months. 
Objectives  
The primary objective for studies FVF 2598 and FVF 2587 was to evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal 
injections of ranibizumab in preventing vision loss, as measured by the proportion of subjects who lost 
fewer than 15 letters in visual acuity at 12 months compared with baseline and to evaluate the safety 
and tolerability of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab administered monthly. 
In  study  FVF2587g  the  previously  mentioned  objective  the  non-inferiority  of  ranibizumab  to 
verteporfin  PDT  was  evaluated;  if  non-inferiority  was  demonstrated,  then  the  treatment  differences 
between ranibizumab and verteporfin PDT were also to be evaluated for superiority.  
The primary objective for study FVF3192 was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of IVT injections of 
ranibizumab when administered with a reduced dosing frequency.  
Secondary objectives were among others to evaluate the efficacy of monthly intravitreal injections of 
ranibizumab in preventing vision loss as measured by the following: - The mean change from baseline 
in visual acuity over time up to 12 months, - The proportion of subjects who gained at least 15 letters 
in visual acuity at 12 months compared with baseline, - The proportion of subjects with a visual acuity 
Snellen equivalent of 20/200 or worse at 12 months, - To investigate the efficacy of the treatment, as 
measured  by  the  National  Eye  Institute  (NEI)  Visual  Function  Questionnaire-25  (VFQ-25)  and  to 
evaluate  the  efficacy  of  ranibizumab  on  the  size  of  choroidal  neovascularisation  and  amount  of 
leakage from CNV at 12 months, as assessed by fluorescein angiography. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  study  FVF  2598  was  to  prove  the  superiority  in  efficacy  of 
intravitreal ranibizumab vs. sham (FVF  2598) and for study and FVF 2587, non-inferiority vs. PDT 
(FVF2587) in preventing vision loss. This was measured by the proportion of subjects who lost < than 
15 letters in the study eye (approximately 3 lines evaluated primarily using the BCVA score based on 
the  ETDRS  visual  acuity  chart)  at  12 months  compared  with  baseline,  based  on  assessment  at  a 
starting test distance of 2 meters.  At the request of the FDA the visual acuity score at a starting test 
distance of 4 meters was also assessed at selected timepoints. 
18/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As for FVF 3192, the primary endpoint was the mean change in VA from baseline. Apart from this 
difference, secondary endpoints were the same as for the above mentioned studies with the exception 
that proportion of patients opposing less than 15 letters was also a secondary endpoint.  
The secondary efficacy endpoint measures assessed at 12 months were: 
(cid:131)  Proportion of patients loosing < 15 letters on the ETDRS chart compared with baseline at a 
starting test distance of 4 meters 
(cid:131)  The mean change from baseline in VA 
(cid:131)  The proportion of subjects who gained at least 15 letters of VA from baseline 
(cid:131)  The proportion of subjects with a VA Snellen equivalent of 20/200 or worse at 12 months 
compared with baseline 
(cid:131)  Vision-related functions and well being assessment as measured with the National Eye Institute 
(NEI) Visual Function Questionnaire-25 (VFQ-25) compared with baseline 
(cid:131)  CNV size and amount of leakage as assessed by fluorescein angiography compared with baseline 
In addition, a number of exploratory outcomes were investigated such as time to loss of more than 3 
lines  on  the  ETDRS  chart,  proportion  of  patients  losing  less  than  30  letters  and  other  vision 
parameters,  various  fluorescein  angiographic  features  of  the  CNV,  ocular  coherence  tomography 
(OCT) and contrast sensitivity testing.  
Sample size 
FVF2598  
With a total sample size of 720 subjects (equally distributed between treatment arms) and an assumed 
difference of responders, 65% in each ranibizumab group vs. 50% in the control group, the analysis 
would have a 95% power to detect statistical significance in the ITT population and a 90% power in 
the subset of evaluable subjects, i.e. subjects who had at least baseline and month 12 VA examinations 
(= PP subset). The calculation was made assuming that 20% of the ITT subjects had missing VA data 
at Month 12.  
FVF 2587 
With a total sample size of 426 subjects (with a 1:1:1 distribution between the 3 treatment arms), the 
non-inferiority  test  had  a  >  99%  power  in  the  analysis  based  on  randomised  subjects  and  a  >  98% 
power  in  the  analysis  based  on  evaluable  subjects  to  show  that  one  or  both  ranibizumab  groups  are 
non-inferior  to  the  verteporfin  PDT  group  (better  or  <7%  worse)  in  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint, 
using a one-sided normal approximation test.  
To  demonstrate  superiority  with  an  assumed  difference  in  responders  of  84%  in  each  ranibizumab 
group  and  67%  in  the  verteporfin  PDT  group,  the  analysis  would  have  a  96%  power  to  detect  a 
statistical  significance  in  the  ITT  analysis  and  a  90%  power  in  the  analysis  based  on  evaluable 
subjects.  The  calculation  was  made  assuming  that  20%  of  the  randomized  subjects  had  missing  VA 
data at Month 12. 
FVF 3192  
With  a  total  of  180  subjects  in  a  1:1:1  randomisation  it  was  assumed  that  there  would  be  a  90%  to 
detect a difference in the mean change in VA between the active arms and sham in the ITT population 
using  the  Student’s  T-test  with  the  Hochberg  Bonferoni  corrections  for  multiple  comparisons.  The 
analyses  foresaw  an  ANOVA  with  stratification  by  lesion  type  (occult,  minimally  classic  and 
predominantly classic) and by initial VA (< 54 letters and > 55 letters). 
Randomisation 
Eligible subjects were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 0.5 mg ranibizumab, 0.3 mg ranibizumab, 
or a sham injection in the FVF2598g and FVF 3192 studies.  
Eligible subjects were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 0.3 mg ranibizumab and sham PDT with 
saline  infusion,  0.5  mg  ranibizumab  and  sham  PDT  with  saline  infusion,  or  sham  injection  of 
ranibizumab and active verteporfin PDT in the FVF2587g study. 
19/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
In  order  to  ensure  masking  there  was  a  minimum  of  two  investigators  per  study  site  to  fulfil  the 
masking  requirements  of  these  studies.  Investigators  were  designated  as  an  “evaluating  physician” 
(who was masked to the treatment assignment and conducted all ocular assessments) or an “injecting 
physician”  (who  was  unmasked  to  the  treatment  assignment  and  performed  the  ranibizumab/sham 
injection and the active or sham PDT infusion procedures, but was masked to study drug dose (0.3 mg 
vs. 0.5 mg ranibizumab)).  
Sham  intravitreal  injections  were  chosen  instead  of  placebo  intravitreal  injections  to  avoid  risk  of 
ocular injury or endophthalmitis. 
Statistical methods 
The  following  efficacy  analysis  populations  were  defined  for  both  pivotal  studies  FVF2598g  and 
FVF2587g:  
Randomized Subjects: This population was used for summaries of demographics and study conduct 
and  for  most  summaries  of  efficacy.  Treatment  group  assignment  for  this  population  was  as 
randomised (i.e., intent to treat [ITT]).  
Per-Protocol Subjects: A subset of randomised subjects who were considered more compliant with 
the protocol, i.e. having baseline and Month 12 VA assessments, not violating entry criteria, receiving 
the  majority  of  treatments  etc.  This  population  was  used  for  supportive  analyses  of  visual  acuity 
efficacy outcome measures at Month 12.  
Safety-Evaluable Subjects: These were randomised subjects who received at least one treatment with 
study drug. 
The primary, secondary, and most of the exploratory outcome measures were analysed based on the 
randomised subject population Missing data were imputed using the last-observation-carried-forward 
(LOCF) approach. 
FVF2598 
Comparisons  of  efficacy  were  performed  between  each  ranibizumab  dose  group  and  the  sham 
injection (control) group with the Cochran χ2 (categorical variables) or analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
or analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models (continuous outcome measures). Comparisons included 
only  two  treatment  groups  (active  vs.  control)  at  a  time.  Multiple  treatment  comparisons  of  each 
ranibizumab dose group with the control group were managed with the Hochberg-Bonferroni multiple 
comparison procedure. 
FVF2587 
The same methods as described above were used, but for the non-inferiority assumption; a one-sided 
normal approximation test for the weighted average of the differences between two proportions over 
the  strata  was  used,  with  baseline  visual  acuity  score  as  the  stratification  variable.  The  Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel  weights  were  used  to  calculate  the  weighted  average  or  the  overall  stratified 
difference in proportions and the normal approximation test was performed by applying the procedure 
proposed by Blackwelder to stratified binomials  
Stratified Analyses in both studies above and subsequent subgroup analyses of the primary efficacy 
endpoint were performed by categories of the following demographic and baseline variables: 
sex, age (< 74 vs.  >75 yr), VA score in the study eye (<54 vs. > 55 letters in FVF 2598 and <44 vs. 
>45 in FVF2587 ), CNV lesion characteristics  and prior laser photocoagulation in the study eye (yes, 
no). 
In  study  FVF  3192  the  mean  change  in  BCVA  from  baseline  to  12  months  was  compared  with  the 
sham-injection control group using the t-test from an ANOVA model stratified by CNV classification 
at  baseline.  The  Hochberg-Bonferroni  multiple  comparison  procedure  was  used  to  adjust  for 
20/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
comparison of the two ranibizumab groups with the control group in order to maintain an overall type 
I error rate of 0.05.  
Comparisons  of  efficacy  were  performed  between  each  ranibizumab  dose  group  and  the  sham 
injection (control) group with the Cochran χ2 test (secondary endpoint).  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Table 2              Subject Disposition and Reasons for Discontinuation:  
Randomised Subjects in Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g 
Study FVF2587g 
Status 
Sham 
(n = 238) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 240) 
Ranibizumab 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 140) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
Received 
ranibizumab/sham ITV 
injection 
Received 
verteporfin/sham PDT a 
Completed Month 12 b 
Discontinued treatment 
prior to Month 12 
Discontinued from study 
at or prior to Month 12 c 
Primary reason for study 
discontinuation 
236 (99.2%) 
238 (100%) 
239 (99.6%) 
143 (100%) 
137 (97.9%) 
140 (100%) 
— 
— 
— 
143 (100%) 
137 (97.9%) 
140 (100%) 
212 (89.1%) 
226 (95.0%) 
226 (94.2%) 
127 (88.8%) 
128 (91.4%) 
131 (93.6%) 
31 (13.0%) 
10 (4.2%) 
11 (4.6%) 
14 (9.8%) 
13 (9.3%) 
9 (6.4%) 
21 (8.8%) 
6 (2.5%) 
6 (2.5%) 
10 (7.0%) 
10 (7.1%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Death 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.7%) 
3 (2.1%) 
2 (1.4%) 
Adverse event 
Lost to follow-up 
5 (2.1%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
0 
2 (0.8%) 
4 (2.8%) 
2 (1.4%) 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
Subject’s decision 
11 (4.6%) 
5 (2.1%) 
2 (0.8%) 
3 (2.1%) 
2 (1.4%) 
1 (0.7%) 
Physician’s decision 
Subject’s non-
compliance 
Subject’s condition 
mandated other 
therapeutic 
intervention 
0 
0 
3 (1.3%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
2 (1.4%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
ITV = intravitreal. 
a  Including only those specified as the study treatment.  
b  Defined as having a visual acuity score in the study eye at Month 12. 
c    Including subjects who discontinued from the study at Month 12 after assessments.  
21/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3  
 Subject Disposition and Reasons for Discontinuation:  
            Randomised Subjects in Studies FVF3192g 
Status 
Received study drug/sham 
Completed Month 12 
Discontinued treatment prior to Month 12 
Discontinued study on or prior to Month 12 
Subject’s decision a 
Subject’s non-compliance 
Study 3192g 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 63) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 60) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 61) 
62 (98.4%) 
59 (98.3%) 
61 (100%) 
54 (85.7%) 
59 (98.3%) 
58 (95.1%) 
17 (27.0%) 
4 (6.7%) 
8 (12.7%) 
1 (1.7%) 
4 (6.6%) 
2 (3.3%) 
- (0%) 
5 (7.9%) 
1 (1.6%) 
- (0%) 
1 (1.7%) 
131 (93.6%) 
Subject’s condition mandated other therapeutic intervention 
2 (3.2%) 
- (0%) 
- (0%) 
Recruitment 
FVF  2598:  The  first  subject  was  enrolled  into  the  study  on  28  March  2003,  and  the  last  subject 
completed Month 12 of the study on 28 December 2004. 
FVF  2587:  The  first  subject  was  randomised  into  the  study  on  10  June  2003,  and  the  last  subject 
completed Month 12 of the study on 13 September 2005. 
FVF3192g: The first subject was enrolled into the study on 7 September 2004, and the last subject 
completed Month 12 of the study on 15 March 2006.  
Conduct of the study 
The protocol of the study FVF2598g (MARINA) was amended six times the most important changes 
being; minor  modifications in the inclusion and exclusion and dose-holding criteria, an unscheduled 
collection  of  a  vitreous  sample  was  added  for  subjects  who  underwent  posterior  vitrectomy  surgery 
and the incorporation of procedures for concomitant treatment with verteporfin PDT for subjects who 
converted from minimally classic or occult lesion classification to predominantly classic. Later it was 
even decided that patients could have PDT regardless of lesion characteristics without being excluded 
from the study. The sixth amendment, dated 9 September 2005, allows subjects in the sham-injection 
group  to  cross  over  and  receive  ranibizumab.  Subjects  who  cross  over  would  receive  monthly 
injections of 0.5 mg ranibizumab for the last 2 (n= 7) and 3 (n = 5)  months of the treatment period. 
Data observed after crossover of these subjects were reviewed separately. 
Of note, the need to increase the interval between verteporfin treatment and study drug injections if a 
subject  converted  to  predominantly  classic  CNV  in  the  study  eye  was  addressed  in  the  protocol 
because of ocular serious adverse events reported in Study FVF2428g. The Statistical Analysis Plan 
was amended to ensure consistency with the changes made to the protocol and across the ranibizumab 
clinical program. 
In general, treatment compliance was good in FVF2598, with 89% or more of subjects treated at each 
visit.  However,  the  treatment  rate  was  slightly  lower  in  the  sham-injection  group  as  a  result  of  the 
greater number of drop-outs; the lowest treatment rate was 83.6% at 12 months. For most visits, the 
proportion of subjects treated was slightly larger in the 0.3-mg group than in the 0.5-mg group. 
The FVF2587 protocol was amended 5 times. These alterations did not profoundly influence the study 
design except for the change pertaining to the p-value of the one-sided test for the primary endpoint, 
which was reduced to 0.024 from 0.049. The protocol of the FVF2587g study was first amended on 21 
October 2003 to clarify methods of administering verteporfin PDT or sham PDT in order to minimize 
the  risk  of  infection.  A  few  minor  amendments  were  included  afterwards.  The  amendment  of 
22/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December  2005  allowed  patients  with  sham  injections  to  switch  over  to  active  treatment  with 
ranibizumab 0.3 mg. 
Treatment compliance with ranibizumab (or sham) in FVF2587 was also generally good, with 87% or 
more  of  randomised  subjects  receiving  a  ranibizumab  (or  sham)  injection  at  each  treatment  visit. 
Likewise, treatment compliance with verteporfin/sham PDT was generally good, with 87% or more of 
subjects  receiving  either  verteporfin  or  sham  PDT  at  each  of  the  appropriate  visits  or  having  no 
treatment administered if deemed unnecessary by the investigator. 
In  study  FVF3192g,  the  protocol  was  amended  twice.  The  first  protocol  amendment,  dated  12  May 
2005, specified pegaptanib sodium as an excluded medication, included additional antimicrobials for 
pre- and post-injection use, clarified that the method of IOP measurement used for a subject was to be 
consistent throughout the study and the time frame for determining whether an adverse event was sight 
threatening was clarified. Finally, the protocol was also revised to be consistent with the protocols of 
the other Phase III studies. The second amendment (27 February 2006) was done after review of the 
12-month  data  from  the  two  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  allowing  subjects  to  cross-over  to  active 
treatment after the Month 12 visit.  
Protocol Deviations: In the FVF2598g two overdose incidents during Year 1 of the study occurred. 
One subject (131006) (0.3-mg group, Month 1) was injected with four times the amount of study drug 
designated in the protocol. Another subject (196003) (0.5-mg group, Day 0) was reported as having a 
possible overdose of up to 2 mg and was unmasked to the treatment assignment (but not to dose level). 
Baseline data 
Baseline  parameters  were  balanced  with  a  few  exceptions.  Most  importantly  VA  was  slightly  better 
and CNV dimensions slightly smaller in the ranibizumab arms in FVF 2587. In addition, a somewhat 
longer duration of active AMD was seen in control arms vs. ranibizumab arms in studies FVF 2598 
and  2587  while    in  FVF  3192,  the  active  arms  contained  more  patients  with  occult  lesions  than  the 
sham  arm  (48  –  49%  vs.  32%)  and  the  overall  proportion  of  patients  with  predominantly  classic 
lesions were few. The strata used in the analyses included baseline VA (and in FVF 3192 lesion type) 
which should compensate for these minor differences. 
23/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4   
Demographic and baseline characteristics 
Study FVF2598g (MARINA) 
Study FVF2587g (ANCHOR) 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239)  
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
Demographic  
Age (yr) 
Mean (SD) 
77.1 (6.6) 
77.4 (7.6)  
76.8 (7.6) 
77.7 (7.8) 
77.3 (7.3) 
76.0 (8.6) 
Range 
Sex  
Male 
Race/ethnicity 
56–94 
52–95  
52–93 
53–95 
54–96 
54–93 
79 (33.5%) 
85 (35.7%) 
88 (36.8%) 
64 (44.8%) 
71 (51.8%) 
75 (53.6%) 
White  
229 (97.0%) 
229 (96.2%) 
231 (96.7%) 
140 (97.9%) 
134 (97.8%) 
136 (97.1%) 
Visual acuity a 
Number of letters, 
mean (SD) 
Number of letters, 
range 
Approximate 
Snellen 
equivalent, median 
CNV classification 
Predominantly 
classic  
54.0 (13.4) 
53.1 (12.9) 
53.7 (12.8) 
45.5 (13.1) 
47.1 (12.8) 
47.1 (13.2) 
16–84 
19–78 
17–79 
3–68 
19–76 
6–75 
20/80 
20/80 
20/80 
20/100 
20/100 
20/125 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
141 (98.6%) 
131 (95.6%) 
135 (96.4%) 
Minimally classic  
86 (36.4%) 
86 (36.1%) 
91 (38.1%) 
2 (1.4%) 
5 (3.6%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Occult without 
classic 
150 (63.6%) 
151 (63.4%) 
147 (61.5%) 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
Total area of CNV (DA) 
Mean (SD) 
4.28 (2.41) 
4.13 (2.47) 
4.28 (2.50) 
1.48 (1.25) 
1.42 (1.25) 
1.31 (1.24) 
Range  
0.20–11.75 
0.02–11.80 
0.12–12.00 
0.07–5.55 
0.11–6.80 
0.05–7.50 
Total area of leakage from CNV plus intense progressive RPE staining (DA) 
Mean (SD)  
3.53 (2.46) 
3.59 (2.50) 
3.48 (2.63) 
3.06 (1.81) 
2.91 (1.83) 
2.92 (2.08) 
Range  
DA = disc areas; RPE = retinal pigment epithelium. 
a  Visual acuity assessment based on a starting test distance of 2 meters.  Number of letters was of 0–100. 
0.00–11.95 
0.00–13.50 
0.00–12.85 
0.20–8.20 
0.20–11.00 
0.25–9.00 
24/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5  
Disease Duration and Prior Therapies for AMD in the Study Eye: 
Randomised Subjects in Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 238) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 240) 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 140) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
Year since first diagnosis of neovascular AMD 
n 
Mean (SD) 
Range 
Prior therapy for AMD 
235 
238 
238 
142 
140 
140 
0.8 (1.3) 
0.6 (1.6) 
0.7 (1.3) 
0.4 (0.9) 
0.3 (0.6) 
0.3 (0.8) 
0.0–10.9 
0.0–18.9 
0.0–13.3 
0.0–5.4 
0.0–5.4 
0.0–7.3 
n 
238 
238 
240 
143 
140 
140 
Any prior therapy 
134 
(56.3%) 
140 
(58.8%) 
137 
(57.1%) 
64 (44.8%) 
Laser photocoagulation 
22 (9.2%) 
13 
(5.5%) 
14 
(5.8%) 
19 (13.3%) 
63 
(45.0%) 
23 
(16.4%) 
58 
(41.4%) 
20 
(14.3%) 
Table 6  
Study FVF 3192 
Characteristics  
Years since first diagnosis of neovascular AMD  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Visual acuity  
Number of letters (0–100)  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Approximate Snellen equivalent  
Sham  
(n = 63)  
Ranibizumab 0.3 mg 0.5 mg  
(n = 60)   
(n = 61) 
0.3 (0.5)  
0.0–3.0  
0.7 (1.6)  
0.0–9.1  
0.7 (1.2)  
0.0–5.0  
55.1 (13.9)  
55.8 (12.2)  
53.7 (15.5)  
25–76  
18–79  
13–79  
Median  
20/63  
20/63  
20/80  
As for allowed concomitant PDT in FVF2598, 26 (3.6%) received one or more treatments with PDT in 
the study eye during the first treatment  year: 25 subjects in the sham-injection group (10.5%) and 1 
subject in the 0.3-mg group (0.4%). 
Comorbility conditions 
In  studies  FVF  2598  and  2587,  >  80%  of  subjects  had  a  history  of  cardiovascular  conditions  and  > 
60% of subjects had a history of musculoskeletal/rheumatic conditions. 
25/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
FVF 2598 (MARINA) 
Table 7  
FVF2598g Analysis Populations: Randomised Subjects 
FVF 2587 (ANCHOR) 
Table   8 
FVF2587g Analysis Populations: Randomised Subjects 
26/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FVF 3192 (PIER) 
Table 9  
FVF3192 Analysis Populations: Randomised Subjects 
27/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoints 
• 
1-year data from studies from FVF2598g (MARINA) and FVF2587g (ANCHOR) 
Table 10   Visual Acuity at 12 Months: Randomised Subjects in Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Visual Acuity at 12 Months 
n 
Loss of < 15 letters 
p-value (vs. control)  
Gain of ≥ 15 letters 
p-value (vs. control) 
Study FVF2598g 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 238) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 240) 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 140) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
At a Starting Test Distance of 2 Meters 
238 
238 
240 
143 
140 
139 
148 
(62.2%) 
225 
(94.5%) 
< 0.0001 
227 
(94.6%) 
< 0.0001 
92 
(64.3%) 
11 
(4.6%) 
59 
(24.8%) 
< 0.0001 
81 
(33.8%) 
< 0.0001 
8 
(5.6%) 
− 9.5 
(16.4) 
132 
(94.3%) 
< 0.0001 
50 
(35.7%) 
< 0.0001 
8.5  
(14.6) 
31 
(22.1%) 
134 
(96.4%) 
< 0.0001 
56 
(40.3%) 
< 0.0001 
11.3 
(14.6) 
23 a 
(16.4%) 
Change from baseline (letters), 
mean (SD) 
- 10.5 
(16.6) 
6.5  
(12.7) 
7.2 
(14.4) 
Approximate Snellen equivalent: 
20/200 or worse 
102 
(42.9%) 
29 
(12.2%) 
28 
(11.7%) 
86 
(60.1%) 
At a Starting Test Distance of 4 Meters 
n 
Loss of < 15 letters 
p-value (vs. control) 
Gain of ≥ 15 letters 
Change from baseline (letters), 
mean (SD) 
229 
229 
230 
141 
133 
139 
138 
(60.3%) 
213 
(93.0%) 
< 0.0001 
209 
(90.9%) 
< 0.0001 
14 
(6.1%) 
− 11.0 
(17.9) 
42 
(18.3%) 
72 
(31.3%) 
5.4  
(13.4) 
6.3 
(14.1) 
93 
(66.0%) 
15 
(10.6%) 
− 8.5 
(17.8) 
126 
(94.7%) 
< 0.0001 
136 
(97.8%) 
< 0.0001 
37 
(27.8%) 
51 
(36.7%) 
7.2  
(15.3) 
11.0 
(15.8) 
Approximate Snellen equivalent; 
20/200 or worse b 
a  n = 140. 
b  n = 237, 237, 240, 143, 139, and 140 for the sham, 0.3-mg, and 0.5-mg groups in Study FVF2598g and the 
102 
(43.0%) 
28 
(11.7%) 
81 
(56.6%) 
32 
(23.0%) 
29 
(12.2%) 
23 
(16.4%) 
verteporfin PDT, 0.3-mg, and 0.5-mg groups in Study FVF2587g, respectively. 
All 
treatment  comparisons  versus  sham  for  Study  FVF2598g  and  verteporfin  PDT  for 
Study FVF2587g  were  highly  statistically  significant  according  to  the  prespecified  criteria  for 
assessing significance, while accounting for multiplicity (p < 0.0001 for all comparisons except one: 
p = 0.0003 for the 0.3-mg group versus verteporfin PDT in the gain of ≥ 15 letters endpoint [4 meters] 
for  Study FVF2587g).  In  both  studies  visual  acuity  results  assessed  at  a  starting  test  distance  of  4 
meters were comparable to those assessed at a starting test distance of 2 meters. 
28/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-year data from study FVF3192 (PIER) 
Figure 1 
p-values active vs. sham < 0.00001 
Ancillary analyses 
• 
Secondary endpoints 
Figures  2 - 3       Mean Change from Baseline over Time up to 12 Months in 
Visual Acuity: Randomized Subjects in Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g
Study FVF2587g
)
s
r
e
t
t
e
l
(
y
t
i
u
c
A
l
a
u
s
V
n
i
i
e
g
n
a
h
C
n
a
e
M
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
-12
-14
0.5 mg Ranibizumab (n=240)
0.3 mg Ranibizumab (n=238)
Sham (n=238)
+7.2
+6.5
-10.5
)
s
r
e
t
t
e
l
(
y
t
i
u
c
A
l
a
u
s
V
n
i
i
e
g
n
a
h
C
n
a
e
M
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
-12
-14
0.5 mg Ranibizumab (n=139)
0.3 mg Ranibizumab (n=140)
Verteporfin PDT (n=143)
+11.3
+8.5
-9.5
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10 11 12
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 10 11 12
Month
Month
29/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 
Gain in VA at 12 months 
Gain of ≥ 15 Letters at 12 Months 
Control  
0.3 mg 
0.5 mg 
Study FVF2598g (MARINA) 
n 
238 
238 
240 
Ranibizumab 
Response rate 
95% CI of the percentage  
p-value (vs. control)  
Study FVF2587g (ANCHOR) 
11 (4.6%) 
59 (24.8%) 
81 (33.8%) 
(2.0%, 7.3%) 
(19.3%, 30.3%) 
< 0.0001 
(27.8%, 39.7%) 
< 0.0001 
n 
143 
140 
139 
Response rate 
95% CI of the percentage  
p-value (vs. control)  
8 (5.6%) 
50 (35.7%) 
56 (40.3%) 
(1.8%, 9.4%) 
(27.8%, 43.7%) 
< 0.0001 
(32.1%, 48.4%) 
< 0.0001 
Notes: Strata were defined using baseline CNV classification (minimally classic vs. occult) and VA 
score (2 meters, ≤ 54 vs. ≥ 55 letters) in Study FVF2598g and baseline VA score (2 meters, ≤ 44 vs. ≥ 45 
letters) in Study FVF2587g. 
FVF 3192 (PIER) 
Table 12 
30/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOCF  analyses  were  only  one  type  of  analyses  performed  for  studies  FVF2598g  (MARINA)  and 
FVF2587g  (ANCHOR).  In  addition,  the  CSRs  for  the  two  Phase  III  studies  include  a  number  of 
sensitivity analyses.  
Using observed cases only, the proportion of patients losing fewer than 15 letters from baseline at 12 
months in study FVF2598g (MARINA) was 95.2% on 0.3 mg, 95.6% on 0.5 mg, and 65.6% on sham 
treatment  (p<0.0001  for  both  ranibizumab  doses  vs.  sham).  In  study  FVF2587g  (ANCHOR),  the 
corresponding proportions were 96.3% on 0.3 mg, 97.2% on 0.5 mg, and 61.2% on verteporfin PDT 
(p<0.0001  for  both  ranibizumab  doses  vs.  PDT).  For  both  studies,  the  results  were  very  similar  to 
those  of  the  LOCF  analyses.  Even  when  missing  data  were  accounted  for  in  the  most  conservative 
way,  i.e.  by  imputing  every  missing  observation  with  the  worst  possible  outcome  (i.e.  loss  of  >  15 
letters), the results of the primary efficacy endpoints were not substantially altered: 90.8% on 0.3 mg, 
88.8% on 0.5 mg, and 54.6% on sham treatment in study FVF2598g (MARINA); 88.6% on 0.3 mg, 
91.4% on 0.5 mg, and 54.5% on verteporfin PDT in study FVF2587g (ANCHOR); p<0.0001 for both 
ranibizumab doses vs. control in both studies. 
The above-mentioned results of the sensitivity analyses are not considered to be surprising given the 
low percentage of missing 12-month values particularly in the ranibizumab groups (5% on 0.3 mg, 6% 
on 0.5 mg, 11% on sham treatment in study FVF2598g/MARINA; 9% on 0.3 mg, 7% on 0.5 mg, 11% 
on  verteporfin  PDT  in  study  FVF2587g/ANCHOR).  Under  these  circumstances  LOCF  analyses, 
which assume stable vision in early dropouts from the control groups, may be more conservative than 
observed cases analyses.  
31/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  4 
Mean change from baseline in VFQ-25 composite score and subscales at 
12 Months: Randomised subjects in studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g
Study FVF2587g
VFQ-25 composite
General health
General vision
Ocular pain
Near activities
Distance activities
Vision-specific
    social functioning
Vision-specific
    mental health
Vision-specific
    role difficulties
Vision-specific
    dependency
Driving
Color vision
Peripheral vision
-15 -10 -5
0
5 10 15
-15 -10 -5
0
5 10 15
Sham (FVF2598g), or
Verteporfin PDT (FVF2587g)
0.3 mg Ranibizumab
0.5 mg Ranibizumab
Notes:  Horizontal lines are ± 1 standard error of the mean.  The LOCF method was used for imputation of 
missing data. 
No formal statistical comparisons were performed for the mean change from baseline over time up to 
12 months for each of the following outcomes: Loss of < 30 Letters in Visual Acuity, Time to Loss of 
≥ 15 Letters in Visual Acuity, Visual Acuity at 4 Meters, Change in Contrast Sensitivity. Change in 
Retinal  Thickness,  VFQ-25,  SF-36  Health  Survey.  However,  there  is  a  notable  trend  toward  an 
improvement, on average, for ranibizumab-treated subjects, whereas control-treated subjects had some 
decline.  The  robustness  of  the  efficacy  results  in  favour  of  ranibizumab  is  supported  by  different 
exploratory analysis. 
32/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
Stratified analyses indicated a more pronounced effect in patients with fair VA at study start (> 55 and 
>45  letters,  respectively).  Subgroup  analyses  were  also  performed  in  patients  with  a  baseline  visual 
acuity  <  20/200  (according  to  the  definition  of  ‘legal  blindness’  in  the  US),  which  indicated  a  true 
benefit of Ranibizumab for patients with poor VA at treatment onset.   
• 
Exploratory analyses 
A number of exploratory analyses were conducted regarding VA and CNV assessments, and Foveal 
Retinal Thickness. The most important ones are presented below. 
CNV 
The  effect  on  the  size  and  leakage  of  CNV  is  a  measure  of  the  treatment  effect  of  a  drug  on 
neovascular AMD. The total size of CNV lesions was stabilized and the CNV leakage as estimated by 
fluorescein  angiography  was  reduced  with  ranibizumab  treatment  in  both  study  FVF2587g 
(ANCHOR)  and  study  FVF2598g  (MARINA),  while  the  same  parameters  increased  for  the  control 
groups.  
Foveal Retinal Thickness 
For OCT, which was performed only in small subgroup of the patients, the trend was similar in both 
study  FVF2587g  (ANCHOR)  and  study  FVF2598g  (MARINA).  Among  the  subset  of  subjects  with 
OCT  assessments  at  baseline  (a  total  of  46  subjects  in  Study  FVF2598g  and  a  total  of  53  in 
Study FVF2587g),  a  significant  mean  reduction  in  foveal  retinal  thickness  of  the  study  eye  from 
baseline  was  seen  at  Day  7  and  maintained  up  to  12 months  in  ranibizumab-treated  subjects.  The 
number  of  patients  with  OCT  data  in  the  Phase  III  studies  was  however  too  small  to  allow  reliable 
estimates of the correlation between OCT and visual acuity scores. 
Change in Contrast Sensitivity in FVV 2587 
At 12 months, ranibizumab-treated subjects had a mean gain of 1.9 and 2.1 letters from baseline in the 
0.3- and 0.5-mg groups, respectively; this is statistically significant (p < 0.0001) vs. control. 
Use of active PDT and sham PDT in FVF2587 
The  control  group  received  an  average  of  3.1  treatments  (SD,  1.3)  with  verteporfin  PDT,  and  the 
0.3-mg and 0.5-mg ranibizumab groups received an average of 1.9 (SD, 1.3) and 1.8 (SD, 1.1) sham-
PDT treatments, respectively.  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Data  from  Phase  III  studies  were  not  pooled,  due  to  the  differences  in  patient  population  (different 
study entry criteria as regards CNV features) and control group. 
(cid:131)  Clinical studies in special populations 
Subgroup analyses to explore the primary outcome measure (proportion of subjects losing < 15 letters 
from baseline at 12 months) and of the mean change from baseline in visual acuity at month 12 were 
performed using the following baseline characteristics: age (> 75 years vs. age < 74 years), sex, visual 
acuity score in the study eye at 2 meters (baseline VA <54 letters vs VA > 55 letters in FVF2598 or < 
44  vs.  45  letters  in  FVF2587),  CNV  classification  (minimally  classic  vs.  occult  lesions),  lesion  size 
(baseline lesion size < 4 DA vs > 4 DA), and prior laser photocoagulation in the study eye.  
Enhanced proportions of responders with ranibizumab treatment were demonstrated in the substratum 
of  patients  with  a  better  baseline  VA  vs.  those  with  a  poorer  baseline  VA.  This  indicates  that 
intervening early on in the disease process is clearly advantageous. 
(cid:131)  Supportive studies 
FVF 2428 (FOCUS) is an ongoing 2-year phase I/II study. It is a single-masked study with monthly 
0.5 mg intravitreal ranibizumab vs. sham injection 1 week after PDT at study start and then with PDT 
as a possible add-on procedure as needed.  
33/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  with  active  predominantly  classic  CNV  were  recruited  as  in  pivotal  study  FVF  2587  but  in 
this study previous PDT was allowed unless delivered less than 3 months before study start and unless 
the extent of previous PDT exceeded three sessions. Active treatment was assigned on a 2:1 basis vs. 
sham. Patients and examiners of VA and angiography images were masked to the treatments. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the same as in the pivotal MARINA and ANCHOR studies. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were mean VA change from baseline, proportions of patients gaining 15 
letters and proportions of patients with VA 20/200 or worse.  
Two  formulations  of  drug  were  administered  during  the  study  to  each  subject  randomised  to 
ranibizumab: lyophilised and the liquid formulation intended for marketing. All subjects randomised 
to  ranibizumab  received  the  lyophilized  formulation  through  at  least  the  Month  12  visit.  Subjects  at 
each study site transitioned from the lyophilised to the liquid formulation once the last study subject 
enrolled and still receiving study treatment at the site had been evaluated at the Month 12 visit. 
With a sample size of 112 subjects who received ranibizumab in combination with verteporfin PDT 
and  56  subjects  who  received  a  sham  injection  in  combination  with  verteporfin  PDT,  the  study  had 
approximately  80%  power  to  detect  a  statistical  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups, 
assuming a rate of 86% responders for the verteporfin PDT + ranibizumab group and a rate of 67% for 
the control group. Missing data were managed with the LOCF principle.  
Baseline  demographic  data  were  balanced  in  terms  of  age  between  the  sham  and  the  active  group 
(mean age 73 vs 75 years) but not in terms of gender (54% vs. 43% males).  
VA was slightly worse in the active group (45 vs. 48 letters). Unlike both Phase III studies, a subject’s 
lesion eligibility for enrolment in Study FVF2428g was determined solely by investigators. Based on 
the  reading  center’s  post-hoc  assessments  of  the  fluorescein  angiograms  and  fundus  photographs, 
predominantly classic lesions were found to be present in 66.1% in the sham group and in 65.7% in 
the active group. The corresponding figures for minimally classic were 26.8% and 30.5% respectively. 
Disease  duration  was  somewhat  longer  in  the  active  arm  than  in  the  sham  arm  (0.8  vs.  0.6  years). 
Previous PDT had been given in 51.8% of sham patients and 45.3% of actively injected individuals. 
More than 10 out of a possible 13 injections were given to 89.5% in the active group as compared to 
82.2% in the sham group. 
Sub-group analyses revealed a larger difference in favour of ranibizumab if no previous PDT had been 
given while the spurious inclusion of minimally classic lesions did not seem to have an impact on the 
results. 
Although  being  differently  designed  in  a  number  of  aspects,  FVF  2428  demonstrates  a  comparable 
efficacy for the primary and secondary outcome results for the 0.5 mg dose of ranibizumab to those 
found  in  the  pivotal  program,  i.e.  90-95  %  of  ranibizumab-treated  patients  loose  <  15  letters  from 
baseline at 12 Months. The study also seems to show that patients with a history of PDT may benefit 
from ranibizumab, at least with the 0.5 mg dose. An additional study (CRFB002B2201, PROTECT) 
exploring  the  same-day  administration  of  PDT  and  the  liquid  formulation  of  ranibizumab  0.5  mg  is 
currently  ongoing.  Once  the  study  is  finalised  and  the  data  have  been  submitted  for  assessment, 
additional information may be implemented in the SPC.  
34/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Choice of dose; 0.5mg dose vs 0.3mg dose 
Two-year data from study FVF2598g (MARINA) 
Figure 5 
Study FVF2598g (MARINA): Mean BCVA change from baseline (letters) 
The 2-year efficacy data of FVF 2598 (MARINA) further show an impressive and sustained efficacy 
with  a  somewhat  better  outcome  for  the  0.5  mg  dose,  while  the  sham  treated  patients  continued  to 
loose visual function, albeit at a less pronounced pace than during the 1st year. At the end of the 2nd 
year  of  the  study  FVF2598g  (MARINA),  the  data  show  that  even  though  the  proportion  of  patients 
with stable vision (proportion of patients loosing ≤ 15 letters, primary endpoint) was similar between 
the two doses, the difference in mean BCVA change from baseline, tended to be in favour of the 0.5 
mg  dose.  Furthermore,  the  proportion  of  patients  that  gained  ≥  15  letters  from  baseline  was  ~  7  % 
higher in the 0.5 mg dose group during the first and the 2nd year of treatment.  
At the end of the 1st year, of study FVF2587g (ANCHOR), the data show that the difference in mean 
BCVA change from baseline, was slightly in favour of the 0.5 mg dose: a larger proportion of a poor 
initial VA (20/200 or worse) gained benefit from treatment with the 0.5 mg dose and the proportion of 
patients that gained ≥ 15 letters from baseline was ~ 4 % higher in the 0.5 mg dose group during the 
first year of treatment. The mean increase in VA in the 0.5-mg group was slightly greater than those in 
the 0.3-mg group at all monthly time points (see Figure 3). 
At the end of the 1st year, of the study FVF 3192 (PIER), the data show that the proportion of patients 
with stable vision was 7% higher in the 0.5 mg dose group.  
In addition, in ancillary analyses such as contrast sensitivity measurements (ANCHOR) and VFQ-25 
composite  score  (MARINA  and  ANCHOR),  the  outcome  of  the  0.5  mg  dose  was  consistently  in 
favour of the lower dose.  
Despite  the  fact  that  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  doses  are  obtained  and  that 
some  of  the  parameters  that  were  in  favour  of  the  0.5  mg  dose  were  too  marginal  to  be  of  clinical 
importance,  the  proposal  to  switch  from  the  0.3  mg  dose  to  the  0.5  mg  dose  is  endorsed  due  to  the 
consistency of the trends in an increased benefit from the higher dose across all the pivotal trials.  
35/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication 
The presented data supports the indication wording. However, it is detailed in the SPC, section 5.1 that 
patients with lesions with typical signs of inactivity such as scar formation and subretinal fibrosis of 
the macula are not likely to respond to treatment with Lucentis.  
Posology 
The  somewhat  reduced  efficacy  but  enhanced  safety  and  patient  convenience  of  the  PIER  regime 
called for a reappraisal of the initially proposed monthly posology, and the concept of the later applied 
for individualised regimen was generally seen to be acceptable. On a mean patient basis, the beneficial 
effect  seemed to peak at 3 months (injections  month 0, 1 and 2) where  after  a plateau was reached. 
However, it was not clear whether this plateau is reached in the responder population only, or whether 
this group of patients may gain additional benefit if monthly injections are given for a longer period of 
time. Further analysis, separating initial responders from non-responders showed that, independently 
of whether defining responders as those who lost < 15 letters, gained ≥ 0, or gained ≥ 5 letters of VA 
at month 3 compared with baseline, a plateau in VA was reached after three monthly injections. All 
analyses  were  based  on  observed  values  only  without  substituting  for  missing  observations  through 
LOCF. 
Even  though  a  slight,  approximately  2  letter  additional  VA  gain  was  observed  after  the  first  three 
months, this is considered to be of low clinical relevance, especially when taking the need for monthly 
injections into account. Consequently, the data strengthens the rationale for the present posology with 
three monthly initial loading injections, followed by a VA-guided flexible dosing.  
More of a challenge is the substantial, initial drop in VA seen in the non-responders (as part of one of 
the definitions, where responders loose ≤ 15 letters). Per analysis definition, the loss ≥ 15 letters in VA 
is observed at Month 3, which is similar to the average loss in the sham-treated patients after 2 years 
(MARINA,  minimally  classic,  occult  AMD  lesions)  and  more  than  the  average  1-year  loss  of  VA 
acuity (~ 10 letters) in ANCHOR (predominantly classic lesions). However, the non-responders were 
few and the variations were large. Consequently, on basis of the data presently available, it is difficult 
to conclude whether there are any patients with particular characteristics that should not be treated, or 
whether  specific  treatment  recommendations  should  be  given  for  patients  that  experience  an  initial 
drop  in  VA  after  treatment  with  Lucentis.  Therefore,  the  Applicant  will  collect  and  analyse  non-
responder data from all ongoing studies (detailed in the RMP) including the finalised MARINA-study 
in  an  attempt  to  define  characteristics  of  patients  that  are  likely  to  lose  initial  VA.  The  Applicant 
should,  if  possible,  suggest  treatment  recommendations  for  this  group  of  patients.  Data  should  be 
reported back to the CHMP on an ongoing yearly basis until the studies are completed (last study to be 
completed Q4, 2008, FUM).  
The 2-year data from FVF 2587 (ANCHOR, due later this year) and FVF 3192 (PIER, due next year) 
will  be  submitted  post-approval.  This  is  all  the  more  important  given  the  few  patients  with 
predominantly classic lesions (n = 35 in total and only 21 actively treated) included in the PIER study.  
Patient monitoring 
The  proposed  regimen  includes  an  initial  loading  phase  of  3  monthly  injections  followed  by  a 
maintenance phase in which patients should be monitored for visual acuity on a monthly basis. A loss 
of  greater  than  5  letters  in  visual  acuity  is  proposed  as  re-treatment  criterion  for  the  maintenance 
therapy  with  ranibizumab.  A  loss  of  greater  than  5  letters  was  chosen  because  smaller  changes  are 
likely to be indistinguishable from measurement errors (Rosser et al, 2003). With the proposed flexible 
(visual  acuity-guided)  ranibizumab  posology,  the  treatment  frequency  in  the maintenance  phase  will 
be adjusted and individualised for each patient. 
The criteria for treatment discontinuation has been debated and the non-responders in the active arms 
in the MARINA and ANCHOR studies, i.e. those who at any time during the 1st treatment year lost > 
15  letters,  are  to  be  specifically  analysed  post-approval  to  provide  information  whether  continued 
treatment in the 2nd year led to a reversal of disease progression or had no impact on a subsequently 
deteriorating course. This analysis should aid in defining criteria on when to stop treatment if no initial 
36/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement in vision has been achieved. It is recognised that in the case of ANCHOR, 2-year data 
are still due and that this analysis can only be completed when these data are available (FUM).  
Clinical safety 
The  safety  dossier  includes  data  from  seven  clinical  studies  in  neovascular  AMD:  the  three  pivotal 
Phase III studies (FVF2598g, FVF2587g and FVF3192g) and the four Phase I and Phase I/II studies 
which  used  the  lyophilised  formulation  of  ranibizumab  (FVF2428g,  FVF2128g,  FVF2425g,  and 
FVF1770g).  The  safety  assessments  focused  on  ocular  adverse  events  and  visual  function  effects  as 
well as on systemic adverse events. 
In  the  pivotal  studies  FVF  2598,  FVF  2587  and  FVF3192g  (and  to  some  extent  in  FVF  2428)  the 
liquid formulation of ranibizumab intended for marketing was used whereas the phase I and I/II trials 
in this application were performed with a lyophilised formulation of ranibizumab. 
No analyses based on pooled data are presented because of the differences between the studies in the 
patient populations studied and the control groups used.  
(cid:131)  Patient exposure 
Overall, the safety file includes safety data from 1608 subjects, 1096 of whom received treatment with 
ranibizumab. 
Table 13      Subjects Contributing Safety Information: Studies Included in the SCS 
Phase 
III 
III 
III 
I/II 
I/II 
I 
I 
a 
Number of Subjects 
Control 
236 
143 
62 
56 
11 
0 
0 
508 
Subjects who did not subsequently enroll in a separate extension study (FVF2508g) had long-term 
Study Duration 
Included in SCS 
2 years 
1 year 
1 year 
1 year 
210 days a 
140 days a 
90 days c 
Ranibizumab 
477 
277 
120 
105 
62 b 
29 
27 
1096 d 
All Subjects 
713 
420 
182 
161 
64 
29 
27 
1604 d 
Study 
FVF2598g 
FVF2587g 
FVF3192g 
FVF2428g 
FVF2128g 
FVF2425g 
FVF1770g 
Total 
follow-up safety visits approximately 26 and 52 weeks after the final study visit. 
b 
Included in the 62 subjects are 53 subjects who were treated during Part 1 of the study and 9 
subjects who crossed over from usual care to receive ranibizumab during Part 2 of the study. 
c 
Included a treatment period (a single injection) and a 90-day follow-up period. 
One subject (14205) enrolled in Study FVF2425g was also enrolled previously in Study FVF1770g 
d 
(as Subject 601). 
Safety data from the first treatment year of the two pivotal trials with monthly dosing represent a large 
proportion of the total safety database and include 1133 subjects, 754 whom received treatment with 
ranibizumab. During the first treatment year, more than 9200 ranibizumab injections and 4400 sham 
injections were administered. 
37/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14           Extent of Study Drug Exposure (1-Year):  Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
2952 
12.4 (1.9) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239)  
2929 
12.3 (2.2) 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
1711 
12.0 (2.5) 
1669 
12.2 (2.1) 
1692 
12.1 (2.2) 
10 (4.2%) 
36 (15.1%) 
192 (80.7%) 
15 (6.3%) 
40 (16.7%) 
184 (77.0%) 
17 (11.9%) 
21 (14.7%) 
105 (73.4%) 
9 (6.6%) 
29 (21.2%) 
99 (72.3%) 
13 (9.3%) 
29 (20.7%) 
98 (70.0%) 
350.6 (54.7) 
346.2 (61.5) 
337.1 (75.0) 
346.2 (61.8) 
345.6 (59.7) 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
2765 
11.7 (2.7) 
Number of injections a 
Total 
Mean (SD) b 
Frequency b 
< 10 
10–12 
13 
Treatment duration (days) c 
Mean (SD) 
a 
b 
c 
27 (11.4%) 
55 (23.3%) 
154 (65.3%) 
332.7 (80.0) 
Intravitreal ranibizumab injection or sham injection. 
Number of injections per subject, of 13 scheduled injections from Day 0 to the Month 12 visit. 
Number of days from the first injection to the last injection on or prior to the Month 12 visit. 
In  Study  FVF2587g,  during  the  first  treatment  year,  the  control  group  received  an  average  of  3.1 
treatments (SD, 1.3) with verteporfin PDT, and the 0.3-mg and 0.5-mg ranibizumab groups received 
an  average  of  1.9  (SD,  1.3)  and  1.8 (SD, 1.1)  treatments,  respectively,  with  sham  PDT  with  saline 
infusions.  
The two-year data from study FVF2598 (MARINA) show that a little more than 90% of patients on 
the 0.3 mg dose received 18-23 injections and almost 54% received all 24. The corresponding figures 
for the 0.5 mg dose were 89% and 54%. 
In  study  FVF  3192g  with  the  reduced  dosing  frequency,  59  patients  on  the  0.3  mg  dose  received  a 
mean of 5.9 injections and 61 patients on the 0.5 mg dose received an average of 5.8 injections during 
the 1st year of treatment. 
In  Study  FVF2428g,  subjects  in  both  treatment  groups  received  protocol-specified  therapy  with 
verteporfin in the study eye 7 days (± 2 days) prior to the first injection (ranibizumab or sham). During 
the first treatment year, the average number of treatments with verteporfin PDT was 3.4 (range, 1–5) 
in the verteporfin PDT group and 1.3 (range, 1–5) in the verteporfin PDT + ranibizumab group. 
Together with the 2-year data, the extent of exposure is sufficient for the labelling applied for. 
38/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Adverse events  
Non-serious ocular events: 
Table 15   
Ocular Adverse Events in the Study Eye during the First Treatment Year 
(Occurring in ≥ 10% of Subjects in Any Group):  Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g 
Study FVF2587g 
Preferred 
Term 
Total oculara 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239)  
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
229 (97.0%) 
233 (97.9%) 
233 (97.5%) 
138 (96.5%) 
129 (94.2%) 
132 (94.3%) 
Blepharitis 
14 (5.9%) 
16 (6.7%) 
26 (10.9%) 
6 (4.2%) 
CNV 
27 (11.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
3 (1.3%) 
14 (9.8%) 
6 (4.4%) 
2 (1.5%) 
7 (5.0%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Conjunctival 
haemorrhage 
Detachment 
of RPE 
139 (58.9%) 
169 (71.0%) 
168 (70.3%) 
65 (45.5%) 
92 (67.2%) 
87 (62.1%) 
30 (12.7%) 
24 (10.1%) 
17 (7.1%) 
5 (3.5%) 
2 (1.5%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Eye irritation 
43 (18.2%) 
34 (14.3%) 
36 (15.1%) 
8 (5.6%) 
6 (4.4%) 
14 (10.0%) 
Eye pain 
57 (24.2%) 
77 (32.4%) 
71 (29.7%) 
24 (16.8%) 
33 (24.1%) 
34 (24.3%) 
Eye pruritus 
20 (8.5%) 
18 (7.6%) 
27 (11.3%) 
7 (4.9%) 
10 (7.3%) 
12 (8.6%) 
Foreign body 
sensation  
IOP 
increased 
Lacrimation 
increased 
Macular 
degeneration 
Retinal 
disorder 
Retinal 
haemorrhage 
Subretinal 
fibrosis 
27 (11.4%) 
41 (17.2%) 
39 (16.3%) 
15 (10.5%) 
8 (5.8%) 
10 (7.1%) 
7 (3.0%) 
38 (16.0%) 
39 (16.3%) 
10 (7.0%) 
21 (15.3%) 
22 (15.7%) 
30 (12.7%) 
32 (13.4%) 
27 (11.3%) 
6 (4.2%) 
9 (6.6%) 
8 (5.7%) 
125 (53.0%) 
88 (37.0%) 
86 (36.0%) 
89 (62.2%) 
50 (36.5%) 
50 (35.7%) 
15 (6.4%) 
20 (8.4%) 
26 (10.9%) 
2 (1.4%) 
8 (5.8%) 
7 (5.0%) 
101 (42.8%) 
46 (19.3%) 
40 (16.7%) 
76 (53.1%) 
20 (14.6%) 
26 (18.6%) 
24 (10.2%) 
18 (7.6%) 
10 (4.2%) 
27 (18.9%) 
15 (10.9%) 
18 (12.9%) 
VA reduced 
23 (9.7%) 
15 (6.3%) 
16 (6.7%) 
21 (14.7%) 
10 (7.3%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Vitreous 
detachment 
Vitreous 
floaters 
30 (12.7%) 
39 (16.4%) 
40 (16.7%) 
26 (18.2%) 
21 (15.3%) 
19 (13.6%) 
14 (5.9%) 
59 (24.8%) 
53 (22.2%) 
6 (4.2%) 
16 (11.7%) 
25 (17.9%) 
IOP = intraocular pressure. 
Note:  Multiple occurrences of the same event for a subject were counted once in the overall incidence. 
a 
Represents the number of subjects with at least one ocular adverse event in the study eye. 
Due  to  a  variety  of  classification  terms,  no  single  adverse  event  with  a  preferred  term  iritis, 
iridocyclitis  reached  a  10%  incidence,  but  taken  together  these  episodes  amounted  to  a  rate  >  10%. 
There was a slight overall increase of this AE in the higher dose group.  
39/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16 
Intraocular inflammation Adverse Events in the Study Eye 
Study FVF2598g 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239)  
Verteporfi
n 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
23 (9.7%) 
26 (10.9%) 
34 (14.2%) 
4 (2.8%) 
14 (10.2%) 
21 (15.0%) 
Total a 
By severity b 
Mild 
22 (9.3%) 
20 (8.4%) 
30 (12.6%) 
4 (2.8%) 
12 (8.8%) 
17 (12.1%) 
By preferred term c 
Iridocyclitis 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
0 
4 (2.9%) 
Iritis 
Uveitis 
Vitritis 
16 (6.8%) 
15 (6.3%) 
15 (6.3%) 
2 (1.4%) 
7 (5.1%) 
10 (7.1%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
7 (3.0%) 
13 (5.5%) 
22 (9.2%) 
2 (1.4%) 
8 (5.8%) 
12 (8.6%) 
a  Represents the number of subjects with at least one intraocular inflammation adverse event in the study eye 
during the first treatment year. 
b  Subjects with multiple adverse events were counted once at the maximum severity of the events experienced. 
c  Represents the number of subjects with at least one adverse event of the preferred term specified. 
Over  24  months  (study  FVF2598,  MARINA),  the  most  common  ocular  adverse  events  in  the  study 
eye  observed  more  frequently  in  the  ranibizumab  groups  than  in  the  sham-injection  group  were; 
conjunctival haemorrhage, vitreous floaters, ocular inflammation and increased IOP. 
Endophthalmitis events in the study eye were uncommon in ranibizumab-treated subjects and reported 
at a cumulative rate of 0.8% over 24 months for both the 0.3-mg and 0.5-mg ranibizumab groups (or 
1.3% for the 0.5-mg ranibizumab group, including a presumed endophthalmitis case that was reported 
as uveitis). 
The cumulative 24-month frequency of reported intraocular inflammation adverse events in the study 
eye was higher in the 0.3-mg (13.9%) and 0.5-mg (18.0%) ranibizumab groups compared with sham-
injection group (10.6%). Serious intraocular inflammation was seen only in the ranibizumab groups, 
however at a low incidence for both dose groups (≤ 1.7% cumulative rate over 24 months). 
40/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
 Study FVF 3192, the following table displays major AEs.  
Ocular  events  are  given  in  the  following  Table  18.  The  most  striking  finding  is  the  dose  dependent 
increase in IOP elevations. 
Table 18 
41/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 19 
In FVF3192g, almost no AEs led to a discontinuation. 
In  FVF  2428  FOCUS  (phase  I/II),  in  contrast,  there  were  generally  high  incidences  of  intraocular 
complications: retinal detachment (16% vs. 11%), retinal haemorrhage (39% vs. 15%), and subretinal 
fibrosis (14% vs. 9%) reported more frequently in the verteporfin PDT group than in the verteporfin 
PDT  +  ranibizumab  group.  The  safety  problems  that  were  observed  with  the  (initial)  combination 
treatment  of  PDT  and  ranibizumab  in  study  FVF2428g  (FOCUS)  could  have  been  related  to  the 
lyophilised formulation rather than the time window of 7 (+ 2) days between the 2 treatments, but the 
frequent occurrence remains an enigma, given that they were even more common in the PDT treated 
group.  Preliminary  data  from  an  ongoing  study  CRFB002B2201,  PROTECT,  indicate  however  that 
the same-day administration of PDT and the liquid formulation of ranibizumab 0.5 mg appears well 
tolerated. The wording of the SPC may need to be reconsidered once the study is finalised and the data 
have been submitted for assessment. 
42/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious ocular adverse events  
Table 20  
Serious ocular events in the pivotal studies during the 1st study year 
Study FVF2598g 
Ranibizumab 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239) 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
132 (94.3%) 
6 (4.4%) 
6 (4.2%) 
8 (5.7%) 
4 (2.9%) 
2 (1.5%) 
1 (0.7%) 
8 (3.4%) 
3 (1.3%) 
4 (1.7%) 
15 (6.3%) 
15 (6.3%) 
12 (5.1%) 
229 (97.0%) 
233 (97.9%) 
233 (97.5%) 
138 (96.5%) 
129 (94.2%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Adverse Event Category 
Ocular events, study eye 
All adverse events 
Adverse events that led to 
discontinuation 
Serious adverse events 
Key serious adverse events 
Cataract traumatic 
Endophthalmitis 
Intraocular inflammation 
IOP increased 
Retinal artery occlusion 
Retinal detachment a 
Retinal tear 
Vitreous haemorrhage 
Non-ocular events 
All adverse events 
Adverse events that led to 
discontinuation 
Serious adverse events 
IOP = intraocular pressure. 
Notes:  Table entries are number (%) of subjects with at least one adverse event of the type specified. Discontinuation refers to 
discontinuations from either treatment or study. Intraocular inflammation includes the preferred terms of iritis, vitritis, iridocyclitis, 
uveitis, and anterior chamber inflammation. 
aIncludes one case of exudative retinal detachment in Study FVF2598g and three cases of rhegmatogenous retinal detachments in 
2 subjects in Study FVF2587g., bSubject experienced two episodes. 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.7%) b 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
0 
1 (0.7%) 
114 (79.7%) 
103 (75.2%) 
200 (83.7%) 
212 (89.1%) 
192 (81.4%) 
20 (14.6%) 
44 (18.4%) 
28 (19.6%) 
39 (16.5%) 
43 (18.1%) 
5 (2.1%) 
2 (0.8%) 
6 (4.2%) 
5 (3.6%) 
5 (2.1%) 
2 (1.4%) 
28 (20.0%) 
119 (85.0%) 
43/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Ocular Events 
According to the applicant there was no notable imbalance among treatment groups except for one in 
Study FVF2587g, in which a higher percentage of subjects treated with verteporfin PDT experienced 
back  pain  compared  with  subjects  treated  with  ranibizumab;  back  pain  is  a  known  adverse  reaction 
associated with verteporfin (Visudyne® SmPC). 
Table 21         Non-Ocular Adverse Events during the First Treatment Year (Occurring in 
≥ 5% of Subjects in Any Group): Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Study FVF2598g 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 238) 
212 (89.1%) 
6 (2.5%) 
6 (2.5%) 
15 (6.3%) 
7 (2.9%) 
14 (5.9%) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 239)  
200 (83.7%) 
10 (4.2%) 
8 (3.3%) 
10 (4.2%) 
10 (4.2%) 
13 (5.4%) 
Verteporfin 
PDT 
(n = 143) 
114 (79.7%) 
4 (2.8%) 
8 (5.6%) 
9 (6.3%) 
5 (3.5%) 
13 (9.1%) 
Study FVF2587g 
Ranibizumab 
0.3 mg 
(n = 137) 
103 (75.2%) 
5 (3.6%) 
5 (3.6%) 
4 (2.9%) 
2 (1.5%) 
5 (3.6%) 
0.5 mg 
(n = 140) 
119 (85.0%) 
7 (5.0%) 
3 (2.1%) 
8 (5.7%) 
2 (1.4%) 
2 (1.4%) 
Sham 
(n = 236) 
192 (81.4%) 
8 (3.4%) 
1 (0.4%) 
14 (5.9%) 
14 (5.9%) 
13 (5.5%) 
14 (5.9%) 
14 (5.9%) 
11 (4.6%) 
3 (2.1%) 
4 (2.9%) 
6 (4.3%) 
12 (5.1%) 
10 (4.2%) 
12 (5.1%) 
16 (6.8%) 
15 (6.3%) 
20 (8.4%) 
10 (4.2%) 
11 (4.6%) 
13 (5.4%) 
16 (6.7%) 
5 (2.1%) 
5 (2.1%) 
9 (6.3%) 
8 (5.6%) 
6 (4.2%) 
4 (2.8%) 
5 (3.6%) 
12 (8.8%) 
6 (4.4%) 
3 (2.2%) 
10 (7.1%) 
4 (2.9%) 
4 (2.9%) 
7 (5.0%) 
6 (2.5%) 
6 (2.5%) 
6 (2.5%) 
8 (5.6%) 
4 (2.9%) 
5 (3.6%) 
Preferred Term 
Total a 
Anemia 
Anxiety 
Arthralgia 
Arthritis 
Back pain 
Blood pressure 
increased 
Bronchitis 
Cough 
Diarrhea 
Dizziness 
Gastroesophageal 
reflux disease 
15 (6.4%) 
23 (9.7%) 
23 (9.7%) 
10 (4.2%) 
9 (3.8%) 
24 (10.1%) 
20 (8.4%) 
21 (8.8%) 
14 (5.9%) 
13 (5.5%) 
Headache 
Hypertension 
Nasopharyngitis 
Nausea 
Sinusitis 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection 
Urinary tract infection  12 (5.1%) 
Note:  Multiple occurrences of the same event for a subject were counted once in the overall incidence. 
a 
Represents the number of subjects with at least one non-ocular adverse event. 
7 (4.9%) 
12 (8.4%) 
15 (10.5%) 
7 (4.9%) 
9 (6.3%) 
11 (8.0%) 
3 (2.2%) 
21 (15.3%) 
6 (4.4%) 
7 (5.1%) 
14 (5.9%) 
20 (8.4%) 
18 (7.5%) 
13 (5.4%) 
14 (5.9%) 
15 (6.3%) 
10 (4.2%) 
15 (6.4%) 
11 (4.6%) 
12 (5.0%) 
9 (6.3%) 
9 (6.6%) 
8 (5.8%) 
6 (4.2%) 
11 (7.9%) 
9 (6.4%) 
14 (10.0%) 
6 (4.3%) 
7 (5.0%) 
8 (5.7%) 
8 (5.7%) 
(cid:131)  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
With  regard  to  potential  side  effects  related  to  systemic  VEGF  inhibition  over  24  months,  no 
imbalance  in  hypertension  was  observed  and  no  adverse  events  of  proteinuria  were  reported.  The 
small,  dose-dependent  trend  in  increased  APTC  (Antiplatelet  Trialists’  Collaboration  1994)  arterial 
thromboembolic events seen in both studies MARINA and ANCHOR, in ranibizumab-treated groups, 
noted  during  the  first  treatment  year  was  reduced  in  the  cumulative  data  over  the  2-year  treatment 
period  (MARINA  study).  The  rates  of  APTC  arterial  thromboembolic  events  during  the  2-year 
treatment period were similar in all three treatment groups, with 9 (3.8%), 11 (4.6%), and 11 (4.6%) 
subjects  experiencing  these  events  in  the  sham-injection,  0.3-mg,  and  0.5-mg  ranibizumab  groups, 
respectively.  Consequently,  the  concern  raised  from  the  1-year  data  regarding  a  dose-dependent 
increase in these events is no longer an issue. 
Numbers of deaths were low and within the expected range of this age group but still somewhat more 
common in ranibizumab-treated patients. 
Special safety issues 
A number of safety topics were subject to more extensive analyses in the pivotal trials, either because 
of  the  nature,  mechanism  of  action  and  procedure  of  administration  of  ranibizumab,  or  either  those 
which  represent  potential  systemic  anti-VEGF  (irrespective  of  whether  or  not  reported  as  serious). 
These areas were: 
44/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endophthalmitis:  
Across  the  two  pivotal  trials  endophthalmitis  was  reported  in  3  patients;  two  ranibizumab-treated 
subjects (0.4%) in Study FVF2598g and one ranibizumab-treated subject (0.4%) in Study FVF2587g. 
All  three  events  were  reported  as  serious.  The  overall  rate  of  endophthalmitis  considering  the 
ranibizumab injections administered during the first treatment year (9200) was 0.03% per injection for 
the  ranibizumab  treated  patients  (0.03%  for  both  doses).  For  presumed  endophthalmitis,  the  overall 
rate was 0.05%. (0.03% and 0.07% for each ranibizumab dose respectively). The overall incidence of 
endophthalmitis  in  this  studies  was  low  and  below  the  rate  of  the  incidence  available  in  published 
literature  (endophthalmitis  rate  of  0.2%  per  injection.  Jager  et  al.  2004)  which  is  reassuring. 
Nevertheless, as the authors of the referred article concluded, “careful attention to injection technique 
and  appropriate  postinjection  monitoring  are  essential  because  uncommon 
injection-related 
complications  may  be  associated  with  permanent  vision  loss”,  the  specific  measures  outlined  in  the 
SPC and in the RMP are considered necessary.  
Intraocular inflammation or uveitis (includes the MedDRA terms of iritis, iridocyclitis, vitritis, uveitis 
and anterior chamber inflammation):  
In Study FVF2598g, the frequency of reported intraocular inflammation in the study eye was higher in 
the  0.5-mg  ranibizumab  group  (14.2%)  compared  with  a  9.7%  in  the  sham-injection  group  and  a 
10.9%  in  the  0.3-mg  ranibizuamb  group.  Four  ranibizumab-treated  subjects,  two  in  each  dose 
experienced  at  least  one  serious  event.  In  Study  FVF2587g,  the  frequency  was  higher  in  the 
ranibizumab  groups  (10.2%  in  the  0.3-mg  group  and  15.0% in  the  0.5-mg  group)  than  in  the 
verteporfin  PDT  group  (2.8%).  Overall,  across  the  two  studies,  there  appears  to  be  a  trend  in 
intraocular  inflammation  towards  higher  rates  in  the  0.5-mg  groups  compared  with  the  control  and 
0.3-mg groups. However, most cases were non-serious and manageable. In study FVF3192 with the 
reduced dosing frequency, the incidence of ocular inflammation was substantially lowered. 
The  cumulative  2-year  frequency  of  reported  intraocular  inflammation  in  the  MARINA  study 
(including  the  MedDRA  preferred  terms  iritis,  iridocyclitis,  vitritis,  uveitis,  hypopyon,  and  anterior 
chamber  inflammation)  was  higher  in  the  0.3  mg  (13.9%)  and  0.5  mg  (18.0%)  ranibizumab  groups 
than  in  the  sham  injection  group  (10.6%),  i.e.  slightly  increased  as  compared  to  the  corresponding 
figures  for  during  the  first  treatment  year.  The  various  events  of  intraocular  inflammation  tended  to 
decrease somewhat over time which does not indicate a sensitisation to the Ranibizumab. 
Serious intraocular inflammation was seen only in the ranibizumab groups, but was uncommon for 
both doses (< 1.7% cumulative rate over 2 years). 
Cataract:  
During  the  first  treatment  year,  the  frequency  of  the  cataract  adverse  event  reported  in  Study 
FVF2598g  was  10.2%,  8.0%  and  10.0%  of  patients  in  the  sham,  0.3-mg,  and  0.5-mg  groups.  In  the 
Study  FVF2587g  the  percentages  were  7.0%,  10.9%  and  12.9%  for  the  subjects  in  the  verteporfin 
PDT, 0.3-mg and 0.5-mg groups respectively. Most of the events were mild in severity, however it is 
worth  noting  that  the  incidence  of  moderate-severity  cataract  was  highest  in  the  0.5-mg  treatment 
group. 
During the second year, in study FVF 2598 (MARINA), a notable proportion of ranibizumab-treated 
subjects  showed  changes  in  lens  status  during  the  2-year  treatment  period.  Of  subjects  who  were 
phakic  in  the  study  eye  at  baseline  and  whose  post-baseline  lens  status  was  known  at  Month  24,  6 
(5.1%)  in  the  0.3-mg  ranibizumab  group  and  8  (7.2%)  in  the  0.5-mg  ranibizumab  group  became 
pseudophakic by Month 24 compared with none in the sham-injection group. This is of course of some 
concern, but cataract surgery is generally successful and safe in this population. 
Elevation in IOP:  
Across patients from Study FVF2598, 22 subjects in the 0.3-mg group (9.2%) and 31 subjects in the 
0.5-mg group (13.0%) experienced IOP ≥ 30  mmHg in the study eye at some time point during the 
first treatment year, compared with 6 sham-treated subjects (2.5%). Most cases occurred following the 
study drug injection and were reversible. Two of the cases in the Study FVF2598g one each in the 0.3 
and  0.5  mg  groups,  were  reported  as  serious  adverse  events  and  anterior  chamber  paracentesis  was 
45/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
performed. In study FVF2587g, 8.8% of patients in the 0.3-mg group and 10.0% of patients in the 0.5-
mg group experienced IOP ≥ 30 mmHg, compared to 4.2% of verteporfin with PDT-treated patients. 
Very few postdose IOP measurements were ≥ 40 mmHg. 
The  number  of  subjects  who  experienced  any  post-injection  IOP  ≥  30  mmHg  during  the  2-year 
treatment  period  was  higher  in  both  ranibizumab  groups  (12.6%  in  the  0.3-mg  group,  16.3%  in  the 
0.5-mg group) than in the sham-injection group (2.5%); however, during the 2nd year also, very few 
measurements  were  made  for  IOP  >  40  mmHg  (1.7%  for  0.3-mg  and  2.9%  for  0.5-mg  vs.  none  for 
sham). 
In summary, increases in IOP were reported more frequently in the active treatment arms, especially in 
the 0.5 mg group. Noteworthy is the fact that this was the only AE with a notably (1.7%-6.5%) higher 
incidence in ranibizumab-treated patients during the last 3 months of the treatment year compared with 
the first 3 months of treatment, however, the incidence of elevated IOP did not increase during the 2nd 
year of treatment.  
Adverse Events potentially related to systemic VEGF inhibition:  
In  the  pivotal  studies  with  monthly  dosing  (MARINA  and  ANCHOR),  serious  AEs  potentially 
associated  with  systemic  VEGF  inhibition  were  somewhat  more  common  with  the  active  treatments 
(control 0.8 – 2.1%, 0.3 mg 2.9 – 3.4%, 0.5 mg 3.8 – 5.7%), specifically with ranibizumab 0.5 mg, 
driven by haemorrhages and thromboembolic events (control 0.8 – 2.1%, 0.3 mg 1.3 – 2.2% and 0.5 
mg  2.1  –  4.3%).  However,  over  24  months  (MARINA  study),  no  imbalance  in  hypertension  was 
observed  and  no  adverse  events  of  proteinuria  were  reported.  The  rates  of  APTC  (Antiplatelet 
Trialists’ Collaboration 1994) arterial thromboembolic events during the 2-year treatment period were 
similar in all three treatment groups, with 9 (3.8%), 11 (4.6%), and 11 (4.6%) subjects experiencing 
these  events  in  the  sham-injection,  0.3-mg,  and  0.5-mg  ranibizumab  groups, respectively. The  small 
trend  toward  ranibizumab  groups  noted  during  the  first  treatment  year  for  APTC  arterial 
thromboembolic  events  was  consequently  reduced  in  the  cumulative  data  over  the  2-year  treatment 
period and the initial concern regarding effects of systemic VEGF-inhibition is no longer an issue. 
The  potential  administration  of  ranibizumab  to  both  eyes  has  not  been  addressed  in  clinical  studies 
although  it  is  likely  to  happen  in  clinical  practice.  Based  on  the  results  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
simulation  of  the  serum  concentrations  for  unilateral  and  bilateral  intravitreal  administration  of 
ranibizumab  0.5  mg,  it  seems  that  the  maximum  serum  levels  of  ranibizumab  would  be  under  the 
systemic-threshold for VEGF-related adverse events. Reassuring evidence is available from the 2-year 
MARINA study data that has demonstrated that those events that were considered of specific concern 
(i.e. arterial thromboembolic events) are more balanced between sham and active arms. 
(cid:131)  Laboratory findings 
During the 1st year of treatment, slight changes in haematology analyses were documented overall with 
a tendency for more pronounced abnormalities in the ranibizumab groups. During the 2nd year  of the 
MARINA study, more patients in the active arms showed increased eosinophilia than in the sham arm 
(5.4% in the 0.5 mg arm, 2.7% in the 0.3 mg arm vs. 0.5% in the sham group). 
The noted abnormalities in blood chemistry at year 1, especially glucose levels in all treatment arms, 
were confirmed in the 2-year data with 22.1% of subjects in the sham-injection group, 19.0% in the 
0.3-mg group, and 19.8% in the 0.5-mg group experiencing an elevation during the 2-year treatment. 
Immunological events: 
Indications  of  immunoreactivity  were  detected  in  particular  in  FVF  2598  (MARINA)  where  an 
increase was noted during the course of the study. Oddly enough, the test was positive also in a few 
control subjects and the relevance of the findings may be questioned. The incidence of patients with 
antibodies towards ranibizumab appeared to increase during the 2nd year of treatment. The Applicant 
has reviewed the patient data, but no clear correlation between antibodies to ranibizumab and ocular 
inflammation  or  decrease  in  visual  acuity  in  Lucentis-treated  patients  was  found.  Still,  a  relation 
between antibody formation to ranibizumab, and the development of intraocular inflammation cannot 
46/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be  completely  ruled  out.  Therefore,  monitoring  of  possible  clinical  signs  attributable  to  intraocular 
antibody  formation  (such  as  intraocular  inflammation)  will  be  continuously  performed  (see  Risk 
Management Plan).  
(cid:131)  Safety in special populations 
Intraocular Inflammation Adverse Events by Subgroups 
The effect of ranibizumab treatment on the incidence of intraocular inflammation adverse events did 
not  differ  in  a  meaningful  way  between  the  subgroups  based  on  age  (< 75,  ≥ 75  years),  sex,  race 
(White,  non-White),  baseline  lesion  subtype  (predominantly  classic,  minimally  classic,  occult),  and 
baseline  lesion  size  (≤ 4, > 4 DA),  although  some  of  the  subgroups  contained  a  small  number  of 
subjects. 
History of Increased IOP 
Based on a review of reported medical history, approximately 16% of subjects (111 of 713) in Study 
FVF2598g  and  14%  of  subjects  (58  of  420)  in  Study  FVF2587g  were  found  to  have  a  history  of 
increased IOP (in either one or both eyes). 
While  the  number  of  subjects  with  a  history  of  increased  IOP  in  each  treatment  group  is  relatively 
small,  the  percentage  of  subjects  who  experienced  an  adverse  event  of  increased  IOP  was  generally 
higher in subjects with a history of increased IOP compared with those without a history of increased 
IOP.  This effect was more pronounced in ranibizumab-treated subjects than in control subjects. 
Table 22   Adverse Events of Increased IOP in the Study Eye 
during the First Treatment Year by History of Increased IOP: 
Studies FVF2598g and FVF2587g 
Subgroup 
Control 
0.3 mg 
0.5 mg 
Ranibizumab 
Study FVF2598g 
History of increased IOP 
No history of increase IOP 
2/41 (4.9%) 
5/195 (2.6%) 
7/36 (19.4%) 
31/202 (15.3%) 
10/34 (29.4%) 
29/205 (14.1%) 
Study FVF2587g 
4/23 (17.4%) 
History of increased IOP 
No history of increase IOP 
18/117 (15.4%) 
Note:  Cell counts represent number of subjects with one or more adverse events of 
increased IOP in the study eye/number of subjects in the subgroup (%). 
4/18 (22.2%) 
17/119 (14.3%) 
1/17 (5.9%) 
9/126 (7.1%) 
(cid:131)  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Regarding concomitant use of Lucentis and PDT/verteporfin, the data from study FVF 2428 (FOCUS) 
indicated potential safety problems, perhaps due to the use of a lyophilised formulation not intended 
for marketing. However, once finalised, data from the ongoing CRFB002B2201, PROTECT study will 
give further guidance.  
(cid:131)  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Adverse events in the study eye that led to discontinuation in the pivotal studies: 
The highest proportion of ocular events was found in the sham group of FVF 2598 (3.4%), whereas 
the figures for the ranibizumab groups were from 1.3% to 2.9%, always slightly higher in the 0.5 mg 
arm. 
As for non-ocular events leading to discontinuation, ranibizumab treatment groups had a slightly lower 
frequency than the control arm (sham: 2%, 0.3 mg: 1%, 0.5 mg 2% in FVF 2598/ PDT: 4%, 0.3mg: 
4%, 0.5mg: 1% in FVF 2587). Incidents involved heart, cerebral and airway events. 
In study FVF3192 (PIER), no actively treated patients in any dose group and 3.2 % of sham injected 
patients discontinued the study due to adverse events.   
47/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(cid:131)  Post marketing experience 
As  ranibizumab  had  not  been  approved  for  market  in  any  country  at  the  time  of  submission,  no 
postmarketing data were available for assessment. 
(cid:131)  Discussion on clinical safety 
The major ocular safety signals associated with IVT ranibizumab emerging during the first treatment 
year  are  intraocular  inflammation  and  increased  IOP.  These  safety  problems  tended  to  be  more 
common in the 0.5 mg treatment group. It is reassuring to find that key ocular serious adverse events 
of  endophthalmitis,  intraocular  inflammation,  retinal  detachment,  retinal  tear  and  traumatic  cataract 
were uncommon in ranibizumab-treated subjects (< 1% for each event).  
The  2-year  data  submitted  for  study  FVF2598  (MARINA)  show  that  in  general  terms,  AEs  such  as 
increased intraocular inflammation, endophthalmitis, cataract operations and raised IOP > 30 mmHg 
were more frequent than with sham, however, the events were more or less of the expected kind and 
are considered to be outweighed by the sustained effect of the active treatment. Compared to patients 
treated with the initially filed 0.3 mg dose, with the exception of a slightly higher incidence in ocular 
inflammation and an elevation in IOP, there are no specific additional concerns regarding the higher, 
0.5  mg  dose.  However,  the  observed  intraocular  inflammation  and  elevated  IOP  were  manageable, 
easily monitored and generally not serious.  
During the 1st treatment year, a small trend in serious non-ocular adverse events potentially related to 
systemic  VEGF  inhibition  was  observed  toward  the  ranibizumab-treated  groups,  particularly  in  the 
0.5-mg  dose  group,  reflecting  serious  arterial  thromboembolic  events  and  non-ocular  haemorrhages. 
However, the rates of arterial thromboembolic events during the 2-year treatment period were similar 
in all three treatment groups and no specific concerns remain.  
Numbers of deaths were low and within the expected range of this age group but still somewhat more 
common in ranibizumab-treated patients. 
It is recognised that from the 2-year data submitted from study FVF 2598 (MARINA), the incidence 
of AEs appears rather low and seemingly not increasing over the two years. However, there is a need 
to  study  the  occurrence  of  selected  AEs  (including  endophthalmitis,  retinal  detachment,  vitreous 
haemorrhage, retinal tears, cataracts warranting operation, uveitis, and elevated IOP) post-marketing, 
when the injections of Lucentis are given in the clinical setting. In addition, AEs in patients that may 
have an impaired retinal blood flow, e.g. patients with atherosclerosis and diabetes, should be carefully 
monitored as well as bilateral use and compliance to the SPC. The Applicant has therefore committed 
to  perform  a  European  epidemiological  cohort  study  to  provide  information  about  practice  patterns 
and patient characteristics in Europe and to follow the incidence of selected adverse events.  
The  safety  data  (ocular  and  systemic)  of  long  term  use  of  Lucentis  are  unknown.  Therefore  the 
Applicant has committed to perform open-label extension phase of relevant studies in order to obtain 
long  term  safety  data.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  submit  the  study  synopsis  by  the  end  of 
December 2006. 
The Applicant has also committed to investigate the possibility of developing a more suitable delivery 
form  of  Lucentis  and  a  summary  of  the  measures  taken  to  develop  such  a  delivery  system  will  be 
submitted within 6 months after approval. 
55..  
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
48/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Risk Management Plan 
The  Applicant  submitted  a  risk  management  plan,  which  included  a  risk  minimisation  plan.  The 
updated  version  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  has  taken  into  account  the  comments  and 
recommendations and is now considered to be acceptable.  
49/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
Table   23 
Summary of activities in the EU-RMP  
Summary of the risk management plan for Lucentis 
Safety concern 
IVT injection related AEs: 
(cid:131) Endophthalmitis 
(cid:131) Intraocular inflammation 
(cid:131) Ret. detachment 
(cid:131) retinal tear 
(cid:131) traumatic cataract 
(cid:131) IOP 
Systemic VEGF-inhibition 
Systemic AEs related to overdose or 
bilateral treatment 
AEs related to off-label use 
Intraocular AEs1  
Serious hypersensitivity 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(cid:131) Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) Background epidemiological studies2 
(cid:131) European epidemiological cohort study4 
(cid:131) Long-term extension study 
(cid:131) Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) European epidemiological cohort study4 
(cid:131) Long-term extension study 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131)  Expedited reporting 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) European epidemiological cohort study4 
(cid:131)  Long-term extension study 
(cid:131) Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) European epidemiological cohort study4 
(cid:131) Long-term extension study 
(cid:131) Routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) Targeted safety surveillance 
(cid:131) European epidemiological cohort study4 
(cid:131) Long-term extension study 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(cid:131) Contraindications for patients with active or suspected ocular or 
periocular infections, and patients with active severe intraocular 
inflammation in section 4.3 of the SPC  
(cid:131) Warning in section 4.4. of the SPC 
(cid:131) List of AEs in section 4.8 of the SPC 
(cid:131) Warning in section 2 “Before use Lucentis” and section 4 
“Possible side effects” of the Package Leaflet 
(cid:131) Educational package to ophthalmologists6,7 
(cid:131) In section 4.4 of the SPC “Special warning and precautions for 
use” 
(cid:131) In section 4.6 of the SPC “Pregnancy and lactation” 
(cid:131) In section 4.8 of the SPC “Undesirable effects” 
(cid:131) In section 5.2 of the SPC “Pharmacokinetic properties” 
(cid:131) Educational package to ophthalmologists7 
(cid:131)  Warning in section 4.4. of the SPC 
(cid:131)  Precaution in section 4.9 of the SPC “Overdose” 
(cid:131)  Educational package to ophthalmologists7 
(cid:131)  Contraindications for patients with active severe intraocular 
inflammation in section 4.3 of the SPC 
(cid:131)  Warning in section 4.4. of the SPC 
(cid:131)  List of AEs in section 4.8 of the SPC 
(cid:131)  Educational package to ophthalmologists7 
(cid:131) Contraindications for patients with hypersensitivity to the active 
substance or to any of the excipients in section 4.3 of the SPC  
(cid:131) Warning in section 2 “Before use Lucentis” of the PL 
(cid:131) Educational package to ophthalmologists7 
50/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
1.  Intraocular AEs related to antibody formation 
2.  Observational study in US healthcare claims database (to be performed) 
3.  Observational study in US databases to gain better understanding on background incidence rates of MI and CVA (completed) 
4.  Prospective epidemiological cohort study 
5.  Long-term extension study 
6.  Video, pictogram (poster) 
7.  Product monograph 
****** 
51/ 54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: 
Educational plan to ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe/use Lucentis are provided 
with physician information pack containing the following: 
•Physician information 
•Intravitreal injection procedure video 
•Intravitreal injection procedure pictogram 
•Patient information pack 
The physician information should contain the following key elements: 
•The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•Sterile techniques, including periocular and ocular disinfection, to minimise risk of infection 
•Use of antibiotics 
•Use of povidone iodine or equivalent 
•Techniques for the intravitreal injection 
•Key signs and symptoms of IVT injection related adverse events 
•Management of IVT injection related adverse events 
The patient information pack should be provided in both a form of patient information booklet and 
audio-CD that contain following key elements: 
•Patient information leaflet 
•How to prepare for Lucentis treatment 
•Which are the steps following treatment with Lucentis 
•Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events 
•When to seek urgent attention from the health care provider 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder must implement this educational plan nationally, prior to marketing, 
and as agreed with the competent authorities in the Member States. 
66..  
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance,  have  been 
adequately described, controlled and validated. The drug substance has been well characterised with 
regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and 
appropriate  specifications  have  been  set.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has  been 
satisfactorily described  and  validated. The  quality  of the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test 
methods  and  specifications.  The  viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents 
including  TSE  have  been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number  of  quality  points,  which  will  be 
addressed  as  part  of  post-approval  follow-up  measures,  the  overall  quality  of  Lucentis  is  considered 
acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
From a proof of principle point of view, the pharmacology studies submitted, even though limited, are 
considered sufficient.  
The  majority  of  adverse  effects  of  ranibizumab  are  considered  related  to  the  ocular  inflammation. 
Since the inflammation increased with time in the 26-week monkey study, non-clinical data can give 
no  assurance  to  the  long-term  clinical  use.  The  severe  inflammation  in  monkeys  is  worrying,  but  is 
believed to be due to the exaggerated dosing and ranibizumab being a human protein. However, the 
ocular inflammation was not alarming and easy to follow in the clinic, and reassurance has been given 
52/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with the 2-year clinical data. In addition, the lack of any apparent ocular toxicity, or any effects on the 
neural retinal, is further reassuring. 
Efficacy & Safety 
Efficacy was convincingly demonstrated in three pivotal clinical studies with a trend towards a more 
pronounced efficacy with the 0.5 mg dose. Efficacy was clearly maintained throughout the 24-month 
period (MARINA study).  
Additional analyses showed that regardless of whether initial responders lost < 15 letters, gained ≥ 0, 
or ≥ 5 letters of VA, a plateau in VA was reached after three monthly injections. The slight, additional 
gain  in  VA  obtained  after  the  first  three  months  is  considered  to  be  of  little  clinical  relevance, 
especially when taking the need for monthly injections into account. Consequently, the rationale for 
the  individualised  posology  with  three  monthly  initial  loading  injections,  followed  by  a  VA-guided 
flexible dosing is strengthened. However, a FUM is aimed to obtain guidance on whether to, or how to 
treat initial non-responders. 
The  proportion  of  patients  experiencing  important  AEs,  such  as  increased  intraocular  inflammation, 
raised IOP > 30 mmHg (both tended to be dose-related) and endophthalmitis was evidently higher in 
the active treatment arms with a slightly higher incidence in ocular inflammation and an elevation in 
IOP in the 0.5 mg dose group. No major increases in incidence of these AEs were however observed 
during  the  2nd  treatment  year.  Overall,  the  intraocular  inflammation  and  elevated  IOP  were 
manageable,  easily  monitored  and  generally  not  serious.  Importantly,  the  rates  of  arterial 
thromboembolic events during the 2-year treatment period were similar in all three treatment groups. 
Therefore, these adverse events are clearly outweighed by the superior efficacy of the study drug. In 
addition, even though a reduced efficacy was observed with a reduced dosing frequency (PIER), safety 
was enhanced. This, together with an increased patient convenience, further strengthens the concept of 
an individualised dosing regimen. The presented pharmacovigilance measures are acceptable and apart 
from issues that could be resolved post-approval, the submitted dossier supports the 0.5 mg dose in the 
present indication claim and wording. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed  activities  described  in  section  3.5  of  this  CHMP  Assessment  Report  adequately  addressed 
these. 
(cid:131)  User consultation 
A user test was presented as a summary, nevertheless enough information was available to assess the 
test, and to be assured that the package leaflet had been tested in an appropriate way.  
Some  comments  regarding  the  layout  have  been  provided,  especially  about  the  ease  of  reading  for 
partially  sighted  people.  These  problems  should  be  addressed  even  further  when  printing  (i.e.  letter 
size,  colour  and  contrast  and  paper  thickness).  No  information  was  given  about  the  time  for  the 
interview,  instructions  for  the  recruiter  and  quantitative  information  if  the  information  was  easy  to 
find, where the patients found it etc. However the test seemed clear enough and covered the relevant 
topics as to why these points were not of decisive importance.  
Effort has been made between the two test rounds through using easier and shorter words and stylistic 
amendments. The package leaflet is found to be acceptable and so is the user test. 
The  Applicant  commits  to  perform  national  submissions  for  evaluation  of  the  key  elements  of  the 
educational material for physicians and patients before launch of Lucentis in the respective countries. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Efficacy  was  convincingly  demonstrated  in  the  three  pivotal  clinical  studies  with  a  trend  towards  a 
more pronounced efficacy with the 0.5 mg dose. Efficacy was clearly maintained throughout the 24-
month  period  (MARINA  study).  The  proportion  of  patients  experiencing  important  AEs,  such  as 
increased  intraocular  inflammation,  raised  IOP  >  30  mmHg  (both  tended  to  be  dose-related)  and 
53/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endophthalmitis  was  evidently  higher  in  the  active  treatment  arms.  However,  these  problems  are 
clearly  outweighed  by  the  superior  efficacy  of  the  study  drug.  In  addition,  even  though  a  reduced 
efficacy was observed with a reduced dosing frequency (PIER), safety was enhanced. Together with 
an  increased  patient  convenience,  the  concept  of  an  individualised  dosing  regimen  is  therefore 
considered to be acceptable. The presented pharmacovigilance measures are acceptable and apart from 
issues that could be resolved post-authorisation, the submitted dossier supports the 0.5 mg dose in the 
present indication claim and wording. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed  to  investigate  further  some  of  the  safety  concerns  and  that  the  following  additional  risk 
minimisation activities were required:  
Intravitreal injection procedure video 
Intravitreal injection procedure pictogram 
• 
• 
•  Patient information pack 
The physician information should contain the following key elements: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Sterile techniques, including periocular and ocular disinfection, to minimise risk of infection 
•  Use of antibiotics 
•  Use of povidone iodine or equivalent 
•  Techniques for the intravitreal injection 
•  Key signs and symptoms of IVT injection related adverse events 
•  Management of IVT injection related adverse events 
The patient information pack should be provided in both a form of patient information booklet and 
audio-CD that contain following key elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Lucentis treatment 
•  Which are the steps following treatment with Lucentis 
•  Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events 
•  When to seek urgent attention from the health care provider 
The  MAH  must  implement  this  educational  plan  nationally,  prior  to  marketing,  and  as  agreed  with  the 
competent authorities in the Member States. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Lucentis  in  the  treatment  of neovascular  (wet)  age-related 
macular  degeneration  (AMD)  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
54/54 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
  
