EMA/554038/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000715 
Lucentis (ranibizumab) 
An overview of Lucentis and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lucentis and what is it used for? 
Lucentis is a medicine used to treat adults with certain sight problems caused by damage to the retina 
(the light-sensing layer at the back of the eye), and more specifically its central region, known as the 
macula. The macula provides the vision needed to see detail for everyday tasks such as driving, 
reading and recognising faces. The conditions Lucentis is used to treat are:  
• 
• 
the ‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The wet form of AMD is caused by 
choroidal neovascularisation (abnormal growth of blood vessels beneath the retina, which may leak 
fluid and blood and cause swelling);  
other sight problems associated with choroidal neovascularisation; 
•  macular oedema (swelling of the macula) caused by diabetes; 
•  macular oedema caused by occlusion (blockage) of the veins behind the retina. 
How is Lucentis used? 
Lucentis is available as a solution for injection in prefilled syringes or vials, for single use. It is given by 
intravitreal injection (injection into the vitreous humour, the jelly-like fluid in the eye). It can only be 
obtained with a prescription and must be given by a qualified eye doctor who is experienced in giving 
intravitreal injections. 
The recommended dose for Lucentis is 0.5 mg given as a single intravitreal injection. The interval 
between two injections of Lucentis into the same eye must be at least four weeks. Before each 
injection, a local anaesthetic is given to reduce or prevent any pain from the injection, and the eye, 
eyelid and skin around the eye are disinfected. The prefilled syringe contains more than the 
recommended dose, therefore when preparing the injection, the doctor must expel the excess volume 
and ensure the injection of the correct dose.  
Treatment with Lucentis is started with one injection every month, with regular checks of the patient’s 
vision and the appearance of the back of the eye, until maximum vision is achieved and/or there are 
no signs of disease activity; the monitoring and treatment intervals should then be determined by the 
treating doctor depending on the patient’s condition and response. Treatment with Lucentis should be 
stopped if the patient is not benefitting from it. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For more information about using Lucentis, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist 
How does Lucentis work? 
The active substance in Lucentis, ranibizumab, is a small piece of a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal 
antibody is an antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific 
target (called an antigen) that is found in certain cells in the body. 
Ranibizumab has been designed to attach to and block a substance called vascular endothelial growth 
factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a protein that makes blood vessels grow and leak fluid and blood, 
damaging the macula. By blocking this factor, ranibizumab reduces the growth of the blood vessels 
and controls the leakage and swelling. 
What benefits of Lucentis have been shown in studies? 
AMD 
Three main studies of Lucentis involved 1,323 patients with the wet form of AMD. All of the patients 
were over 50 years of age and had not been treated for wet AMD before. Two of the studies compared 
Lucentis with a sham injection ( a procedure similar to a Lucentis injection, in which the syringe is 
pressed against the surface of the eye but no actual injection is carried out). The patients cannot tell 
whether they received Lucentis or the sham procedure. The third study compared Lucentis with 
verteporfin photodynamic therapy (PDT, another treatment for AMD). The main measure of 
effectiveness was the change in vision in the affected eye after a year of treatment, using a standard 
eye test with a letter chart. Patients were classified as having experienced no significant worsening of 
vision if the number of letters that they could see increased, stayed the same, or fell by less than 15. 
Lucentis was more effective at preventing a worsening of vision than the comparison treatment. After 
one year, between 94 and 96% of the AMD patients receiving Lucentis every month experienced no 
significant worsening of their vision, compared with 62% of those receiving sham injections and 64% 
of those treated with verteporfin PDT. The vision of patients receiving Lucentis also remained better 
than the vision of those receiving sham injections in a study in which injections were given less 
frequently, with injections every month for the first three months and then every three months. 
Choroidal neovascularisation 
For choroidal neovascularisation other than that associated with wet AMD, Lucentis has been studied in 
2 main studies each lasting a year. The main measure of effectiveness in both was the change in vision 
using a standard eye test with a letter chart. One study compared Lucentis with verteporfin PDT in 277 
patients with choroidal neovascularisation associated with pathologic myopia (a severe type of short 
sightedness). On average over the first 3 months of treatment, patients given Lucentis could see 
around 8 to 9 letters more than those receiving verteporfin PDT.  
A second study involved 178 patients with choroidal neovascularisation associated with other 
conditions, and compared Lucentis with a sham injection. After 2 months of treatment, patients given 
Lucentis could see around 10 letters more on average than those given sham treatment. 
In both studies, the improvement in vision was maintained over the course of the study. 
Lucentis (ranibizumab)  
EMA/554038/2018  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
Diabetic macular oedema 
For diabetic macular oedema, Lucentis was studied in two main studies involving a total of 454 
patients. The first study compared Lucentis with a sham injection. The second study compared 
Lucentis, given on its own or as an add-on to laser photocoagulation (a treatment for diabetic macular 
oedema using a laser), with laser photocoagulation on its own.  
Lucentis was more effective at improving vision than its comparison treatments. In the first study, 
lasting one year, patients receiving Lucentis could see about 6 letters more than those receiving sham 
injections. In the second study, patients receiving Lucentis on its own or as an add-on to laser 
photocoagulation could see after one year an average of 5 letters more than patients receiving laser 
photocoagulation on its own. 
Macular oedema due to occlusion of retinal veins 
For macular oedema due to retinal vein occlusion, Lucentis was looked at in two main studies involving 
a total of 789 patients, where Lucentis was compared with a sham injection. In both studies, the main 
measure of effectiveness was the change in vision in the affected eye, measured by comparing the 
number of letters that the patient could see at the end of the treatment period with the number before 
starting treatment. 
Lucentis was more effective than a sham injection: patients receiving Lucentis at the 0.5 mg dose for 
six months could see around 11 letters more than patients receiving a sham injection in one study and 
14 letters more in the other study. 
What are the risks associated with Lucentis? 
The most common side effects with Lucentis (seen in more than 1 in 10 patients) are increased 
intraocular pressure (pressure within the eye), headache, vitritis (inflammation in the eye), vitreous 
detachment (separation of the vitreous from the back of the eye), retinal haemorrhage (bleeding at 
the back of the eye), visual disturbance, eye pain, vitreous floaters (spots in the vision), conjunctival 
haemorrhage (bleeding at the front of the eye), eye irritation, sensation of a foreign body in the eye, 
increased lacrimation (tear production), blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelids), dry eye, ocular 
hyperaemia (red eye), eye pruritis (itching), arthralgia (joint pain) and nasopharyngitis (inflammation 
of the nose and throat). Rarely, endophthalmitis (an infection inside the eye), blindness, serious 
damage to the retina and cataract (clouding of the lens) can occur. For the full list of all side effects of 
Lucentis, see the package leaflet. 
Lucentis must not be used in patients who may have an infection of the eye or the area around the 
eye, or who have severe inflammation within the eye. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Lucentis authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Lucentis’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Lucentis (ranibizumab)  
EMA/554038/2018  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lucentis? 
The company that makes Lucentis will provide information packs to patients to help them prepare for 
Lucentis treatment, recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent attention from their 
doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lucentis have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. As for all medicines, data on the use of Lucentis are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Lucentis are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Lucentis 
Lucentis received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 January 2007.  
Further information on Lucentis can be found on the Agency’s website:ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018.  
Lucentis (ranibizumab)  
EMA/554038/2018  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
