31 January 2019 
EMA/199298/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): lutetium (177Lu) chloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010391/201806 
Period covered by the PSUR: 20 December 2017 – 19 June 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lutetium (177Lu) chloride, the 
scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
A number of haematological malignancies, most notably myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) have been reported in clinical studies and in the literature with the use of 
Lutetium 177. Although patients had received prior chemotherapy in some studies and the clinical studies 
were mostly uncontrolled, there was no previous chemotherapy in other studies and the reporting 
frequency is generally consistent. The PRAC also notes that for other Lu-177 containing products, MDS and 
AML are considered adverse reactions with a frequency of common and uncommon, respectively. In 
conclusion, the PRAC considers that it would be important for HCPs and for patients to be appropriately 
informed as to the frequency of these tumours, as it may be a factor in a patient’s decision whether or not 
to receive treatment. An update to the product information to appropriately reflect the frequency of these 
tumours is therefore recommended.   
Two well documented cases of Lutetium 177 extravasation were reported in the literature during the 
reporting period. The SmPC for other Lutetium-containing products advises that in case of extravasation, 
the infusion should be immediately ceased. Overall, the PRAC considers that it would be important for HCPs 
to be reminded of the potential for extravasation and the need to immediately cease the infusion and to 
promptly implement measures to reduce the potential for harm. As a result, section 4.4 of the SmPC should 
be updated with the inclusion of a new warning on extravasation. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lutetium (177Lu) chloride the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing lutetium (177Lu) chloride is unchanged 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/199298/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
