ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lumeblue 25 mg prolonged-release tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 25 mg of methylthioninium chloride. 
Excipients with known effect 
Lumeblue contains 3 mg soya lecithin per prolonged-release tablet.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Prolonged-release tablet. 
Off white to light blue, round, biconvex, enteric coated tablets, with approximate dimensions of 
9.5 mm x 5.3 mm. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lumeblue is indicated as a diagnostic agent enhancing visualisation of colorectal lesions in adult 
patients undergoing screening or surveillance colonoscopy (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Adults including the elderly (≥65 years) 
The recommended total dose is 200 mg methylthioninium chloride, corresponding to eight 25 mg 
tablets. 
The total dose of the medicinal product must be taken orally during or after the intake of low-volume 
(e.g. 2 L) or high-volume (e.g. 4 L) polyethylene glycol (PEG) based bowel cleansing preparation and 
should be completed the evening prior to the colonoscopy to ensure there is enough time for the tablets 
to reach the colon and locally release the methylthioninium chloride prior to the colonoscopy. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (aged ≥ 65 years) (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild renal impairment. The medicinal product should 
be used with caution in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment as there are no data in this 
patient group and methylthioninium chloride is predominantly renally eliminated (see section 5.2).  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. There is no 
experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of the medicinal product in children aged less than 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Lumeblue is for oral use.  
Tablets should be swallowed whole, without crushing, breaking or chewing. The tablets are coated 
with a gastro-resistant film that facilitates the delivery of the dye into the colon. Breaking the gastro-
resistant film by crushing or chewing the tablets may cause early release of the dye in the upper part of 
the gastrointestinal tract, with a possible loss of the treatment effectiveness. 
The patient should take the medicinal product with the low-volume (e.g. 2L) or high-volume (e.g. 4 L) 
PEG based bowel cleansing regimen chosen by the healthcare provider according to the dosing 
schedule below: 
•  The first dose of 3 tablets should be taken after drinking at least 1 L of the bowel cleansing 
preparation; 
•  The second dose of 3 tablets should be taken 1 hour after the first dose; 
•  The last dose of 2 tablets should be taken 1 hour after the second dose. 
Tablets should be taken orally with the bowel cleansing preparation chosen by the healthcare provider 
or with equivalent water volumes and the proposed dosing schedule is compatible with either full dose 
or split dose bowel preparations. 
4.3  Contraindications 
•  Hypersensitivity to the active substance, peanut or soya, or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1; 
•  Patients with known glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency; 
•  Pregnancy and lactation (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Serotonin syndrome 
Serotonin syndrome has been reported with the use of methylthioninium chloride when administered 
via the intravenous route in combination with serotonergic medicinal products. It is not known if there 
is a risk of serotonin syndrome when methylthioninium chloride is administered orally in preparation 
for colonoscopy. Patients treated with methylthioninium chloride in combination with serotonergic 
medicinal products should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If symptoms of 
serotonin syndrome occur, discontinue use of Lumeblue, and initiate supportive treatment (see 
section 4.5) 
Photosensitivity 
Methylthioninium chloride may cause a cutaneous photosensitivity reaction when exposed to strong 
light sources, such as phototherapy, those found in operating theatres or locally from illuminating 
devices such as pulse oximeters. 
Advise patients to take protective measures against exposure to light, because photosensitivity may 
occur after administration of methylthioninium chloride. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General colouration 
Methylthioninium chloride imparts a blue-green colour to urine, faeces and a blue colour to skin which 
may hinder a diagnosis of cyanosis. 
Interference with in vivo monitoring devices 
Inaccurate pulse oximeter readings 
The presence of methylthioninium chloride in the blood may result in an underestimation of the 
oxygen saturation reading by pulse oximetry. If a measure of oxygen saturation is required after 
administration of Lumeblue, it is advisable to check oxygen saturation by CO-oximetry when 
available.  
Bispectral index monitor 
A fall in the bispectral index (BIS) has been reported following administration of methylthioninium 
chloride class products. If Lumeblue is administered during surgery, alternative methods for assessing 
the depth of anaesthesia should be employed. 
Excipient warning  
Lumeblue contains soya lecithin. If a patient is allergic to peanut or soya, this medicinal product  must 
not be used (see section 4.3). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The following medicinal product interactions have been reported for medicinal products containing 
methylthioninium chloride. 
Serotonergic medicinal products 
Serious central nervous system (CNS) reactions have been recorded when methylthioninium chloride 
was administered via intravenous route to patients taking certain psychiatric medicinal products (see 
section 4.4). Reported cases occurred in patients taking specific serotonergic psychiatric medicinal 
products, namely a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake 
inhibitor (SNRI), monoaminooxidase inhibitors or clomipramine. It is not known if there is a risk of 
serotonin syndrome when methylthioninium chloride is administered orally in preparation for 
colonoscopy.  
In clinical studies maximal systemic exposure to methylthioninium chloride (maximum plasma 
concentration [Cmax]) was lower for orally administered methylthioninium chloride than for 
intravenous administered methylthioninium chloride, suggesting a lower risk of systemic effects such 
as serotonin syndrome occurring with oral methylthioninium chloride than for intravenous 
administered methylthioninium chloride.  
Agents metabolised by cytochrome P450 enzymes 
There is limited clinical information regarding the concomitant use of methylthioninium chloride with 
medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP isoenzymes. In vitro studies indicated that 
methylthioninium chloride inhibits a range of CYP isozymes in vitro, including 1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, and 3A4/5. These interactions could have a clinical relevance with narrow therapeutic 
index medicinal products that are metabolised by one of these enzymes (e.g., warfarin, phenytoin, 
alfentanil, cyclosporine, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, and 
tacrolimus).  
Lumeblue may be coadministered with anaesthetics / analgesics and/or sedative / anxiolytic medicinal 
products, often used during colonoscopy which are cleared through hepatic CYPs reactions such as: 
midazolam, propofol, diazepam, diphenhydramine, promethazine, meperidine, and fentanyl. The 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical consequences of changes in plasma concentrations of co-administered medicinal products 
which are substrates of these metabolic enzymes and transporters are not known but cannot be 
excluded.  
Methylthioninium chloride induces CYP isozymes 1A2 and 2B6 in human hepatocytes culture, 
whereas it does not induce 3A4 at nominal concentrations up to 40 μM. However, these interactions 
are not expected to have any clinical relevance for the Lumeblue single dose application. 
Transporter interactions 
There is limited clinical information regarding the concomitant use of Lumeblue with medicinal 
products that are inhibitors of P-gp and OAT3. Based on in vitro studies, methylthioninium chloride 
was found to be a possible substrate of the membrane transport proteins P-gp, OCT2, MATE1 and 
MATE2-K and OAT3 and medicinal products which are inhibitors of these transporters have the 
potential to decrease excretion efficiency of methylthioninium chloride. Methylthioninium chloride is 
known to be a potent inhibitor of the transporters OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2-K. The clinical 
consequences of the inhibition are not known. The administration of Lumeblue has the potential to 
transiently increase the exposure of medicinal products primarily cleared by renal transport involving 
the OCT2/MATE pathway, including cimetidine, metformin and acyclovir. However, the clinical 
impact of these in vitro interactions is expected to be minimal due to the short period of administration 
of Lumeblue (approximately 3 hours). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of methylthioninium chloride in pregnant women. 
Animal studies are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the 
potential reproductive toxicity, the evidence that methylthioninium chloride may pass the placenta, 
and the option to conduct a colonoscopy without supportive use of a visualisation agent, Lumeblue is 
contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). Women of childbearing potential must use 
effective contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
There is insufficient information on the excretion of methythioninium chloride / metabolites in human 
milk. Studies in animals have shown that there is the potential for excretion of methylthioninium 
chloride / metabolites during breast-feeding (see section 5.3). A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be 
excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued prior to and after treatment with Lumeblue (see 
section 4.3).  
Before administering Lumeblue to a woman who is breast feeding, consideration should be given as to 
whether the investigation could be reasonably delayed until the woman has ceased breast feeding or 
whether it is necessary to administer methylthioninium chloride as a visualisation agent for her 
colonoscopy, bearing in mind the theoretical secretion of active substance and/or metabolite in human 
milk. If administration is considered necessary, breast-feeding should be interrupted and the expressed 
feeds discarded. It is usual to advise that breast feeding can be restarted 8 days after the administration 
of methylthioninium chloride, based upon the methylthioninium chloride half life of 15 ±5 hours. 
Fertility 
There is no information on the impact of methylthioninium chloride on human fertility. Animal and 
in vitro studies with methylthioninium chloride have shown reproductive toxicity. In vitro, 
methylthioninium chloride has been shown to reduce motility of human sperm in a dose dependent 
manner. It has also been shown to inhibit the growth of cultured two-cell mouse embryos (see 
section 5.3). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lumeblue has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Methylthioninium class 
medicinal products have been found to cause symptoms such as migraine, dizziness, balance disorder, 
somnolence, confusion and disturbances in vision. Patients who experience undesirable effects with a 
potential impact on the ability to drive or use machines safely, should refrain from these activities for 
as long as the undesirable effects persist. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Lumeblue commonly causes chromaturia (32.4%) and discoloured faeces (13.4%), which gradually 
diminish over the following days. Lumeblue is associated with transient nausea and vomiting. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of decreasing seriousness. 
Data presented below are based upon clinical studies conducted with Lumeblue. All adverse reactions 
recorded at a frequency greater than placebo are reported. Additionally, adverse drug reactions of 
known frequency, reported with methylthioninium chloride administered intravenously in the 
treatment of methaemoglobinaemia are included in the following table. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Adverse reaction 
Nasopharyngitis 
Anaphylactic reactiona 
Dizzinessb 
Dysgeusiab 
Paraesthesiab 
Anxietyb 
Headacheb 
Migraine 
Serotonin syndrome (with 
concomitant use of 
serotonergic medicinal 
products,see sections 4.4 and 
4.5) 
Hypotension 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Rhinorrhoea 
Faeces discoloured 
Abdominal pain 
Vomitingc 
Nauseac 
Haematemesis  
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal discomfort  
Skin discolouration (blue)b,c 
Sweatingb 
Ecchymosis  
Night sweats  
Pruritus 
Rash 
Telangiectasia 
Photosensitivity 
Pain in extremityb 
Flank pain 
Chromaturia 
Polyuria 
Dysuria 
Chest painb 
Pain 
Chills 
Procedural nausea 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
a The inclusion of anaphylactic reactions reported in the table is reflective of sporadic and spontaneous reporting in literature. 
No event of anaphylactic reaction has been identified during clinical studies of Lumeblue. 
b These terms are included as they were reported as very common or common in clinical studies with methylthioninium 
chloride via intravenous administration.  
c See section below: Description of specific adverse reactions for more detail. 
Description of specific adverse reactions 
Frequent adverse reactions 
In the pooled safety data from the clinical program, the most common related TEAE were chromaturia 
and discoloured faeces, as described above. In addition, skin discolouration has been reported in 
clinical studies with methylthioninium chloride administered via intravenous route, and this may 
interfere with in vivo monitoring devices (see section 4.4).  
7 
 
 
Serotonin syndrome 
Serotonin syndrome has been reported with the use of methylthioninium chloride when administered 
via  the  intravenous  route  in  combination  with  serotonergic  medicinal  products.  Patients  treated  with 
methylthioninium chloride in combination with serotonergic medicinal products should be monitored 
for  the  emergence  of  serotonin  syndrome.  If  symptoms  of  serotonin  syndrome  occur,  discontinue 
treatment, and initiate supportive treatment (see section 4.5). 
Nausea and vomiting 
Nausea and vomiting are well recognised adverse reactions associated with the use of PEG-based 
bowel cleansing preparations, however in clinical studies, patients were more likely to experience 
nausea and vomiting when receiving Lumeblue in combination with a bowel preparation agent, than 
when receiving the bowel preparation alone.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Available information from other methylthioninium chloride class medicinal products administered 
via intravenous, or other non-oral routes in other indications, show that overdose can result in an 
exacerbation of adverse reactions. Administration of large intravenous doses (cumulative dose 
≥7 mg/kg ) of a methylthioninium chloride caused nausea, vomiting, chest tightness, chest pain, 
dyspnoea, tachypnoea, tachycardia, apprehension, sweating, tremor, mydriasis, blue green staining of 
the urine, blue staining of the skin and mucous membranes, abdominal pain, dizziness, paraesthesia, 
headache, confusion, hypertension, mild methaemoglobinaemia (up to 7%) and electrocardiogram 
changes (T-wave flattening or inversion). These effects lasted 2 to 12 hours following administration. 
In case of overdose of Lumeblue, the patient should be observed until signs and symptoms have 
resolved, including monitoring for cardiopulmonary, haematologic and neurologic toxicities, and 
instituting supportive measures as necessary. 
Paediatric population 
Hyperbilirubinaemia has been observed in infants after administration of 20 mg/kg methylthioninium 
chloride. Death occurred in 2 infants after administration of 20 mg/kg methylthioninium chloride. 
Both infants had complex medical circumstances and methylthioninium chloride was only partially 
responsible. 
The paediatric patient should be maintained under observation, the methaemoglobin level should be 
monitored and appropriate supportive measures taken as necessary. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Diagnostic agents, other diagnostic agents, ATC code: V04CX  
Mechanism of action 
Lumeblue is a delayed and extended-release multi-matrix (MMX) formulation in the form of tablets, 
each containing 25 mg of methylthioninium chloride as dried substance. The tablets are coated with an 
enteric coating that is stable at acidic pH (in the stomach) but breaks down at or above pH 7, normally 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
achieved in the terminal ileum. Once the film coating has dissolved, the extended-release MMX 
formulation provides a slow release of the methylthioninium chloride dye, resulting in its 
homogeneous and prolonged dispersion on the surface of the colonic mucosa.  
Methylthioninium chloride is known to be a “vital dye”, meaning “a dye or stain agent capable of 
penetrating living cells or tissues and not inducing immediate evident degenerative changes”. 
Methylthioninium chloride is taken up across the cell membrane into the cytoplasm of actively 
absorbing cells such as those found in the small intestine and colon, thereby staining the epithelia of 
those organs. Vital, absorptive dyes such as methylthioninium chloride, enhance the superficial 
structure of lesions by exploiting the different degrees of active mucosal stain uptake, highlighting 
contrast and therefore differences between cell types.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A total of seven clinical studies of Lumeblue have been conducted. The efficacy of this medicinal 
product was evaluated in one pivotal Phase 3 study (CB-17-01/06). 
Study CB-17-01/06 was a Phase 3, multicentre, multinational, randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled, parallel-group study to evaluate the adenoma or carcinoma detection rate in patients 
undergoing safety or surveillance colonoscopy high definition white light (HDWL) colonoscopy after 
colonic mucosal staining and contrast enhancing with Lumeblue tablets (compared to placebo tablets 
and gold standard HDWL colonoscopy alone). All subjects received 4 litres PEG-based bowel 
cleansing preparation starting in the late afternoon the day before the colonoscopy. The subjects were 
prescribed 3, 3, and 2x 25 mg tablets after the second, third, and fourth litre of bowel preparation, 
respectively. The subjects drank at least 250 mL of preparation every 15 minutes, so that the intake of 
study medicinal product and bowel cleansing preparation was completed 4 hours after commencement 
of the bowel cleansing preparation. The study comprised both a full dose (200 mg) arm and a low dose 
(100 mg) arm, which was included to assist blinding of the full dose active arm.  
Primary endpoint: adenoma detection rate (ADR) 
The primary endpoint of Study CB-17-01/06 was the ADR defined as the proportion of subjects with 
at least one histologically proven adenoma or carcinoma. Histologically proven adenoma was defined 
as Vienna grade 3 to 4.2, or a traditional serrated adenoma (TSA) or sessile serrated adenoma (SSA). 
Histologically proven carcinoma was defined as Vienna grade 4.3 to 5.b. The primary analysis 
population was defined as all randomised subjects who received at least one dose of study treatment 
and underwent colonoscopy, regardless of the completion status. The primary endpoint was analysed 
through a logistic regression with treatment, centre, age, gender, reason for colonoscopy, and number 
of excisions included in the regression model as fixed effects. 
Primary endpoint results are provided in table 1 below. 
Table 1: Efficacy results from study CB-17-01/06 - primary endpoint: ADR  
Adenoma detection rate (ADR) 
Absolute value 
Magnitude of effect 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
OR without logistic regression  
OR with logistic regression 
OR with logistic regression excluding 
excisions as regression covariate 
Secondary endpoint: false positive rate (FPR) 
Lumeblue vs. placebo 
56.29% vs. 47.81% 
8.48% 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
[1.09, 1.81] 
[1.09, 1.96] 
[1.15, 1.97] 
p-value 
0.0099 
0.0106 
0.0027 
Point estimate 
1.41 
1.46 
1.51 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The FPR was introduced to control for possible false positive study results, in that a high FPR would 
indicate a higher sampling rate in the Lumeblue group without a concomitant increase in ‘hit rate’ for 
detecting patients with positive lesions (adenomas or carcinomas). In this occurrence, a positive 
difference between Lumeblue and placebo (i.e., increase in the FPR) was hypothesised and a 
maximum threshold (non-inferiority margin) was set at 15%. 
Table 2 and table 3 below present the FPR at both a subject and excision level. Lumeblue was 
statistically not inferior to placebo in FPR at both the subject and excision level. FPR at the subject 
level was numerically lower (-6.44%) in the treatment group than in the placebo group. At the excision 
level, the FPR of Lumeblue was numerically slightly greater (+2.63%) than placebo, however this was 
not considered clinically significant. These data demonstrate the effectiveness of Lumeblue at 
visualising lesions that were subsequently determined to be adenoma and carcinoma. 
Table 2: Efficacy results from the study CB-17-01/06 - secondary endpoint: FPR (subject level) 
False positive rate (FPR) (subject level) 
Absolute value 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
Lumeblue / placebo 
23.31% vs. 29.75% 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
Point estimate 
p-value 
Magnitude of effect = difference in FPR (≥15% 
threshold for rejecting null hypothesis)  
-6.44 
[-13.07, 0.19] 
<0.0001 
Table 3: Efficacy results from the study CB-17-01/06 - secondary endpoint: FPR (excision level) 
False positive rate (FPR) (excision level) 
Absolute value 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
Lumeblue / placebo 
49.79% vs. 47.16% 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
Point estimate 
p-value 
Magnitude of effect = difference in FPR (≥15% 
threshold for rejecting null hypothesis)  
2.63 
[-1.55, 6.81] 
<0.0001 
The tables below present further prespecified and post-hoc clinically meaningful endpoints from the 
pivotal Phase III study (CB17-01/06): 
Table 4: Efficacy results from the study CB-17-01/06 - secondary endpoint: proportion of 
subjects with at least one adenoma 
Proportion of subjects with at least one 
adenoma 
Absolute value 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
Magnitude of effect = difference in proportion  
OR without logistic regression  
8.69 
1.42 
Point estimate 
Lumeblue / placebo 
55.88% vs. 47.18% 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
[2.41, 14.98] 
[1.10, 1.83] 
p-value 
0.0082 
0.0082 
Table 5: Efficacy results from the study CB-17-01/06 - exploratory endpoint: proportion of 
subjects with at least one non-polypoid lesion 
Proportion of subjects with at least one non-
polypoid lesion 
Absolute value 
Lumeblue / placebo 
43.92% vs. 35.07% 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
Point estimate 
Magnitude of effect = difference in proportion  
OR without logistic regression  
OR with logistic regression 
8.84% 
1.45 
1.66 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
[2.70, 14.99] 
[1.12, 1.88] 
[1.21, 2.26] 
p-value 
0.0056 
0.0056 
0.0015 
Table 6: Post hoc analysis: proportion of subjects with at least one non-polypoid adenoma or 
carcinoma 
Proportion of subjects with at least one non-
polypoid adenoma or carcinoma 
Absolute value 
Adjusted odds ratio (OR) 
Point estimate 
Magnitude of effect = difference in proportion 
OR without logistic regression 
6.57% 
1.46 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Lumeblue / placebo 
25.77% vs. 19.21% 
95% 
Confidence 
interval limits 
[1.31, 11.82] 
[1.08, 1.98] 
p-value 
0.0167 
0.0167 
Clinical studies show that methylthioninium chloride is well absorbed by the oral route, and rapidly 
taken up by the tissues. The majority of the dose is excreted in the urine, usually in the form of 
leucomethylthioninium chloride. 
Absorption 
Following the oral administration of Lumeblue at a total dose of 200 mg (8 prolonged-release tablets, 
25 mg each) in healthy subjects, peak plasma concentration (Cmax) was 1.15 ± 0.26 μg/mL, with a 
median time to peak concentration (Tmax) of 16 hours (10 – 24 hours). Absolute bioavailability was 
calculated to be approximately 100%. 
Biotransformation 
Methylthioninium chloride inhibits a range of CYP isozymes in vitro, including 1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, and 3A4/5, and induces CYP isozymes 1A2 and 2B6, but not 3A4, in human hepatocytes 
culture. In vitro, methylthioninium chloride acts as a substrate and weak inhibitor of P-gp, and as a 
substrate of OAT-3, OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2-K (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elimination 
In a Phase 1 clinical study with 200 mg Lumeblue cumulative excretion of unchanged 
methylthioninium chloride at 60 hours postdose was approximately 39 ± 16% of the administered 
dose. The mean terminal half-life (T1/2) was determined to be approximately 15 hours. 
Special populations 
In clinical studies, subgroup analyses based on age and gender did not indicate any difference in safety 
and efficacy. There are limited data in patients ≥ 75 years of age. 
Elderly 
Lumeblue was investigated in subjects undergoing screening or surveillance colonoscopy, with a mean 
age of 58.4 years (range 21 to 80 years) and 250 subjects at least 65 years of age, thus the subject 
population was representative of the intended clinical population, however there is limited data in 
patients ≥75 years of age. Overall, the safety profile of this medicinal product was broadly similar 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regardless of age. It is therefore proposed that neither warnings nor dose adjustments are required in 
respect of age. 
Renal impairment 
Retrospective analysis of the safety dataset identifying subjects with some degree of renal impairment 
concluded that the incidence and pattern of TEAE in subjects receiving Lumeblue was consistent with 
the observed pooled safety database, and thus no warnings nor dose adjustments are required in 
respect to mild renal impairment. There are no data in patients with moderate to severe renal 
impairment, and therefore the medicinal product should be used with caution in patients with moderate 
to severe renal impairment (see section 4.2).  
Hepatic impairment 
Retrospective analysis of the safety dataset identifying subjects with some degree of hepatic 
impairment concluded that the incidence and pattern of TEAE in subjects receiving Lumeblue was 
consistent with the observed pooled safety database, and thus no warnings nor dose adjustments are 
required in respect to mild to moderate hepatic impairment. There are no data in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeated dose toxicity 
In repeat dose toxicity studies, with Lumeblue, no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was 
considered to be 600 mg/four days. Therefore, effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at 
exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the maximum human exposure indicating little 
relevance to clinical use. 
Genotoxicity 
Methylthioninium chloride has been shown to be mutagenic in gene mutation assays in bacteria and 
mouse lymphoma cells, but not in vivo mouse micronucleus assay when administered intravenously at 
62 mg/kg.  
Carcinogenicity 
Some evidence of carcinogenic activity of methylthioninium chloride in male mice and rats, equivocal 
evidence of carcinogenic activity in female mice and no evidence of carcinogenic activity in female 
rats. 
Reproductive toxicology 
In animal studies, methylthioninium chloride produced adverse developmental outcomes in rats and 
rabbits when administered orally during organogenesis. As a precautionary measure, the use of 
methylthioninium chloride during pregnancy is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Studies reported in literature suggest that exposure to methylthioninium chloride results in the 
reduction of sperm motility in vitro and teratogenic effects on embryo-foetal developmental effects in 
rats and rabbits. However, there were no consistent effects of methylthioninium chloride 
administration on reproductive system measures in male or female rats after 3-months oral treatment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stearic acid 50 (E570) 
Soya lecithin (E322) 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
Hypromellose 2208 (E464) 
Mannitol (E421) 
Talc (E553b) 
Silica colloidal anhydrous (E551) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Tablet coating 
Methacrylic acid - methyl methacrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Methacrylic acid - methyl methacrylate copolymer (1:2) 
Talc (E553b) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Triethyl citrate (E1505) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polyamide/aluminium/PVC foil blister with aluminium push-through foil. 
Packs contain 8 prolonged-release tablets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Alfasigma S.p.A. 
Via Ragazzi del ’99, n. 5 
40133 Bologna 
Italy 
+39 0516489511 
info.it@alfasigma.com 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1470/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 August 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Cosmo S.p.A 
Via C. Colombo, 1 
20045, Lainate 
Milan,  
Italy 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lumeblue 25 mg prolonged-release tablets  
methylthioninium chloride  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 25 mg methylthioninium chloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains soya lecithin. Read the package leaflet before use. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Prolonged-release tablets 
8 prolonged-release tablets. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use.  
Swallow whole. Do not crush or chew the tablets.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Alfasigma S.p.A. 
Via Ragazzi del ’99, n. 5 
40133 Bologna 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/20/1470/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lumeblue 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lumeblue 25 mg prolonged-release tablets 
methylthioninium chloride 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Alfasigma S.p.A. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Lumeblue 25 mg prolonged-release tablets 
methylthioninium chloride 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Lumeblue is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Lumeblue  
3.  How to take Lumeblue 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Lumeblue 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lumeblue is and what it is used for 
Lumeblue contains methylthioninium chloride (also known as methylene blue). This medicine is a 
blue dye.  
This medicineis used in adults to temporarily stain the colon (large bowel) before colonoscopy, in 
which a flexible instrument is inserted into the rectum to view inside the bowel. The staining allows 
the doctor to see the lining of the colon more clearly and improves the detection of abnormalities.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Lumeblue 
Do not take Lumeblue 
• 
if you are allergic to methylthioninium chloride, peanut or soya, or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6);  
if you have been told you have glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency; 
if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant, or are breastfeeding as your doctor may 
decide that you do not need to take this medicine before your procedure.  
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine: 
• 
If you are taking certain antidepressant medicine or a medicine for psychiatric illness. Such as: 
- 
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants such as fluoxetine, 
fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram and zimeldine; 
bupropion, venlafaxine, mirtazapine, clomipramine, buspirone; 
- 
-  medicines classified as monamine oxidase inhibitors (often used for treating depression). 
Giving methylthioninium chloride injection (into a vein) in patients also taking these medicines 
has sometimes resulted in a life-threatening complication called serotonin syndrome. It is not 
known if serotonin syndrome can occur when methylthioninium chloride is given as a tablet. 
Your doctor will decide what to do if you are taking an antidepressant or another medicine for a 
psychiatric illness.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Lumeblue should not be given to children and adolescents under 18 years of age as it is not known if 
the medicine is safe and effective in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lumeblue 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.  
Other medicines and Lumeblue taken together may affect how they each work or are processed and 
removed from the body. 
In addition to antidepressants and the other medicines for psychiatric illness mentioned under 
‘Warnings and Precautions’, you should tell your doctor before you take this medicine if you are also 
taking or have recently been given: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Medicines to treat irregular heart beats such as amiodarone, digoxin and quinidine 
Warfarin, to prevent blood clots  
Medicines to treat cancer such as alectinib, everolimus, lapatinib, nilotinib and topotecan  
Medicines to prevent organ transplant rejection such as ciclosporin, sirolimus and tacrolimus 
Medicines to treat HIV infection such as ritonavir and saquinavir 
Medicines to treat migraine such as dihydroergotamine, ergotamine 
Medicines used to treat anxiety or insomnia, such as diazepam 
Sedative medicines such as midazolam and propofol  
Antihistamine medicines to treat allergies such as diphenhydramine or promethazine 
Probenecid to treat gout 
Phenytoin to treat epilepsy 
Pimozide to treat psychosis or schizophrenia 
Medicines to treat severe pain such as alfentanil, fentanyl and pethidine (also known as 
meperidine) 
Cimetidine to treat stomach ulcers and acid reflux 
Metformin to treat type 2 diabetes  
Aciclovir to treat herpes simplex virus infections (e.g. cold sores, genital warts) and varicella–
zoster virus infections (e.g. chicken pox, shingles) 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, do not use Lumeblue as 
it is not known whether this medicine can harm your unborn baby. 
If you are breast-feeding, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.  
Your doctor may decide that you do not need to take this medicine if you require a colonoscopy whilst 
breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
It is unlikely that taking Lumeblue will affect your ability to drive or use machines. However if you 
experience any side effects that could impair your ability to drive or use machines safely, such as 
migraine, feeling dizzy, or disturbance to your vision, then you should not drive or use machines until 
you feel better. 
Lumeblue contains soya lecithin 
If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not take this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Lumeblue 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medicine is supplied as tablets. These must be swallowed whole because they have a special 
coating to make sure that they pass through your stomach and only break up in your intestines to 
release the methylthioninium chloride that stains the colon blue. You must not crush or chew them. 
You will be given a pack containing 8 tablets (a total of 200 mg methylthioninium chloride). These 
must all be taken over a period of 2 hours, the night before your colonoscopy. Your doctor will explain 
how you should take the tablets, which are normally taken together with a bowel cleansing preparation 
(a medicine to clear out your colon).  
Take the tablets as instructed by your doctor.  
Typical instructions are: 
1.  After drinking at least 1 litre of the bowel cleansing preparation (or water) take the first dose of 
3 tablets. 
2.  Wait 1 hour then take the second dose of 3 tablets.  
3.  Wait another hour, then take the final dose of 2 tablets. 
If you take more Lumeblue than you should 
The box contains one complete dose of Lumeblue. Therefore you cannot take more Lumeblue than 
you should. However, if you take more tablets than you should, you might get some of the side effects 
listed in section 4. If you think you have taken more of this medicine than you should, tell your doctor 
or nurse as soon as possible.  
If you notice any of the following symptoms you should tell your doctor straight away: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  
•  
Feeling or being sick, or stomach pain 
Abnormally fast beating of the heart, or chest pain 
Tight chest or difficulty breathing (e.g. breathlessness) 
Confusion, dizziness, or headache 
Sweating, tremor, feeling weak, paler skin than usual, or skin turning blue 
An increase in methaemoglobin (an abnormal form of haemoglobin in the blood); 
High blood pressure. 
If you forget to take one or more of the doses of Lumeblue 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten tablets, take the next dose of tablets according to 
the bowel cleansing schedule given to you by your doctor, it may be helpful to set an alarm to remind 
you when to take the medicine.  
If you stop taking Lumeblue 
At your colonoscopy, tell your doctor that you did not take all the tablets.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects are common, but tell your doctor or nurse if you are worried about any side 
effect you get: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•  Discoloured urine 
•  Discoloured faeces 
•  Dizziness 
•  Changes in your sense of taste 
•  Pins and needles sensation, tingling or prickling 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pain or discomfort in your hands or feet 
•  Blue discolouration of the skin 
•  Sweating 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
•  Nausea 
•  Vomiting 
•  Stomach or chest pain 
•  Headache 
•  Anxiety 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
•  Cold-like symptoms, including blocked or runny nose 
•  Migraine 
•  Low blood pressure 
•  Cough 
•  Vomiting blood 
•  Bruising-like discolouration of the skin,  
•  Night sweats 
• 
Itchy skin 
•  Rash 
•  Spidery veins 
•  Pain in the back or sides 
•  Abnormally large amounts of urine, or pain or difficulty when passing urine 
•  General pain 
•  Chills 
•  Signs of serotonin syndrome, such as muscle spasms, clumsiness, tremors, confusion or other 
mental changes 
•  Signs of an anaphylactic reaction, such as itchy rash, throat or tongue swelling, shortness of breath. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lumeblue 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after EXP. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use this medicine if the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lumeblue contains  
The active substance is methylthioninium chloride. Each prolonged-release tablet contains 25 mg 
methylthioninium chloride. 
- 
*  Tablet core: stearic acid 50 (E570), soya lecithin (E322) – see section 2 under ‘Lumeblue contains 
soya lecithin’, microcrystalline cellulose (E460), hypromellose 2208 (E464), mannitol (E421), 
talc (E553b), silica colloidal anhydrous (E551), magnesium stearate (E470b) 
The other ingredients are: 
*  Film coating: methacrylic acid–methyl methacrylate copolymer, talc (E553b), titanium 
dioxide (E171), triethyl citrate (E1505) 
What Lumeblue looks like and contents of the pack 
Lumeblue prolonged-release tablets are off-white to light blue, round, biconvex, enteric-coated tablets. 
The prolonged-release tablets are provided in blister packs containing 8 tablets.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Alfasigma S.p.A. 
Via Ragazzi del ’99, n. 5 
40133 Bologna 
Italy 
+39 0516489511 
info.it@alfasigma.com 
Manufacturer 
Cosmo S.p.A 
Via C. Colombo, 1 
20045, Lainate 
Milan,  
Italy 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
