24 October 2013 
EMA/29762/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Lumigan 
bimatoprost  
EMEA/H/C/000391/PSUV/0046 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 March 2010 – 28 February 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Lumigan, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
Cases of asthma (including serious cases) have been reported during the period of this PSUR. 
Previously reported reactions such as dyspnoea, hypoxia, wheezing and exacerbation of COPD could 
all fit into a larger category of acute obstructive pulmonary symptoms, where e.g. wheezing 
presents a milder case on the same scale as a severe asthma attack. Respiratory distress of any 
kind including new asthma, exacerbation of existing asthma, exacerbation of existing COPD or 
exacerbation of any other existing pulmonary illness, wheezing, hypoxia, dyspnoea, all constitute 
important adverse events. Given the multiple types of interconnected respiratory reactions 
presented, there is a need for further information on the total amount of any respiratory symptoms 
reported with the use of Lumigan. 
The PRAC recommended that Section 4.4 of the SmPC should include new text to warn about 
reports of exacerbation of asthma, dyspnoea and COPD, as well as reports of asthma, in post 
marketing experience. Patients with COPD, asthma or compromised respiratory function due to 
other conditions should be treated with caution. In addition, Asthma, Asthma exacerbation, COPD 
exacerbation and dyspnoea should be added to section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
The above-mentioned SmPC changes will need to be reflected in the PL. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Lumigan, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance bimatoprost is favourable 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Lumigan  
EMA/29762/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
