SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Echocardiography 
Over  the  past  decade,  echocardiography  has  become  an  imaging  method  of  choice  for  evaluating 
individuals  with  suspected  cardiac  disorders,  largely  because  of  its  ease  of  use,  widespread 
availability, and portability.  
Despite  the  many  positive  features  of  echocardiography,  poor  diagnostic  quality  images  are  still 
obtained  in  many  patients.  It  is  estimated  that  as  many  as  10  to  15%  of  echocardiograms  using 
fundamental  imaging  do  not  provide  diagnostically  acceptable  visualisation  of  the  left-ventricular 
(LV)  endocardial  borders.  Although  new  ultrasound  technologies  such  as  harmonic  imaging  have 
dramatically improved endocardial border delineation, it remains  inadequate in a substantial number 
of  patients.  Echocardiographic  assessments  of  regional  and  global  ventricular  function  are 
consequently limited or impossible in many patients. The inability to clearly identify the ventricular 
cavity  and  endocardial  borders  can  result  in  a  failure  to  detect  regional  and  global  left  ventricular 
function,  in  poor  reader’s  confidence  and  in  non-diagnostic  examination.  This  may  be  overcome  by 
the use of contrast-enhancing agents.  
About the product 
The  principle  of  the  first  contrast-enhancing  agents  was  to  produce  microscopic  gas  bubbles  by 
shaking, for example, air in a saline, which, when injected gave rise to altered echoes from blood or 
tissue. These appeared to be too unstable or too large to pass through the pulmonary circulation and 
led to the development of stabilised and miniaturised air mirocrospheres. 
Luminity  (DMP115)  consists  of  phospholipid-encapsulated  perflutren  (perfluropropane,  PFP, 
octafluoropropane)  microspheres.  It  belongs  to  a  third  generation  of  contrast-enhancing  agents 
composed  a  high-molecular-weight  gases,  less  diffusible  than  air,  stabilised  with  an  outer  layer  of 
protein, lipids or synthetic polymers. Similarly to the second generation microspheres, they can pass 
through the pulmonary circulation and reach the cardiac chambers. Moreover, gases of high molecular 
weight are not very soluble, which increases in vivo stability of the microspheres and enhances blood 
echogenicity.  
There  are  two  contrast  enhancing  agent  with  an  echocardiography  indication  authorised  through  the 
centralised procedure and  currently available in Europe: SonoVue (EU/1/01/177/01-02) and Optison 
(EU/1/01/166/01-02). 
The present application for marketing authorisation of Luminity is made under Article 8.3 of Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended. 
The  approved  indication  is  “This  medicinal  product  is  for  diagnostic  use  only.  Luminity  is  an 
ultrasound contrast-enhancing agent for use in patients in whom  non-contrast echocardiography was 
suboptimal  (suboptimal  is  considered  to  indicate  that  at  least  two  of  six  segments  in  the  4-  or  2-
chamber  view  of  the  ventricular  border  were  not  evaluable)  and  who  have  suspected  or  established 
coronary  artery  disease,  to  provide  opacification  of  cardiac  chambers  and  improvement  of  left 
ventricular endocardial border delineation at both rest and stress 
The applicant also sought approval “for contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging in patients referred for 
diagnostic ultrasound imaging to improve the characterization of focal lesions of the liver and kidney”. 
During the scientific assessment procedure, the applicant withdrew the claim for this indication. At the 
time  of  withdrawal,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  clinical  data  provided  were  not  sufficient  to 
establish  the  clinical  efficacy  of  Luminity  in  this  indication,  since  there  were  unresolved  major 
objections on the demonstration of clinical efficacy. 
1/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Before  activation,  Luminity  is  presented  as  a  vial  containing  a  colourless,  uniformly  clear  to 
translucent liquid with perflutren gas in the headspace. 
After  activation,  Luminity  is  presented  as  a  dispersion  for  injection  or  infusion  with  perflutren-
containing lipid microspheres as active substance. Since the diagnostic activity is dependent upon the 
number  and  the  size  of  the  dispersed  gas  microspheres,  it  is  relevant  to  state  that  each  millilitre  of 
dispersion  contains  a  maximum  of  6.4x109  microspheres,  with  a  mean  diameter  range  of  1.1-2.5 
micrometres.  The  approximate  amount  of  perflutren  gas  in  each  millilitre  of  Luminity  is 
150 microlitres.  
other 
include 
1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine 
ingredients 
The 
1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic 
N-(methoxypolyethylene glycol 5000 carbamoyl)-1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3- 
phosphatidylethanolamine,  monosodium  salt  (MPEG5000  DPPE),  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate 
monohydrate, disodium hydrogen phosphate heptahydrate, sodium chloride 
propylene glycol, glycerol and water for injections. 
(DPPC), 
(DPPA), 
monosodium 
acid, 
salt 
Luminity  is  packed  in  clear  borosilicate  Type  I  glass  vials,  closed  with  a  chlorobutyl  elastomeric 
stopper, and sealed with an aluminium crimp seal having a plastic flip-off button. Before use Luminity 
has  to  be  activated  using  a  mechanical  shaking  device  (Vialmix),  not  part of  the  presentation  of  the 
medicinal product but to be provided separately to healthcare professionals by Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Pharma Belgium Sprl. 
Active Substance  
For simplicity, the active substance may be said to be perflutren. However, it may be more correct to 
refer  to  the  dispersed  system  of  perflutren-containing  lipid  microspheres  as  the  echogenic  contrast 
enhancement  is  related  to  a  number  of  physical  parameters  of  the  system  as  a  whole  –  number  of 
microspheres/ml, size, properties of perflutren/lipids interface etc… 
Perflutren  has  the  molecular  formula  C3F8.  It  is  a  non-polar,  colourless  and  odourless  gas.  It  is 
chemically inert and thermally stable (decomposition > 400°C) because of the strength of the carbon-
fluorine bond. Detailed information on quality/control of materials used in the synthesis, as well as on 
the synthesis itself, has been provided by the way of an active substance master file. 
•  Manufacture 
Perflutren is synthesised via a 3-stage process consisting of one synthetic and two purification steps. 
Satisfactory  specifications  and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials, 
intermediate, reagents and solvents. Validation data submitted confirm robustness and reproducibility 
of the process. 
Neither  class  1  or  class  2  solvents  nor  metal  catalysts  are  used  in  the  process.  A  discussion  about 
potential  impurities  including  their  origin  according to  the  manufacturing  process  is  provided.  Their 
content appear to be very low. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  include  test  for  identity  (IRFT),  assay  (GC),  purity,  related 
substances (GC), air, residual free fluoride and heavy metals. Impurity limits in the specification are 
justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch analysis data provided for 21 batches of perflutren manufactured at the commercial site confirm 
satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
2/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability 
Stability data have been provided for four batches. Three batches were first subjected to six months 
storage  under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH)  and  then  moved  to  the  long  term  study.  The 
fourth batch was directly included in the long-term stability study (15-30ºC and ambient humidity to 
80%). 6-month data and up to 3-year data are available respectively under long term and accelerated 
conditions. 
The  parameters  tested  included  assay,  impurities,  air,  container  weight,  residual  fluoride  and  heavy 
metals.  
The  stability  studies  were  not  conducted  fully  in  line  with  EU  Guidelines.  However,  in  view  of  the 
chemical  inertness  of  perflutren  and  the  impermeable  nature  of  the  gas  cylinders  to  be  used  as 
containers,  it  was  considered  in  this  special  case  that  the  data  presented  support  the  proposed  retest 
period when perflutren is stored in the proposed packaging 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  performance  of  an  ultrasound  contrast-enhancing  agent  is  determined  by  its  physical 
characteristics  i.e.  size  (range  of  greatest  interest  1  to  10  micrometre),  number,  and  stability  of  the 
microspheres  in  the  finished  product.  The  aim  of  the  development  was  to  overcome  the  inherent 
instability  and  consequential  short  duration  of  action  of  the  first  generation  of  ultrasound  contrast 
agents (see introduction). 
Perflutren  has  been  selected  as  the  dispersed  gas  in  the  microspheres  because  of  its  extremely  low 
water solubility increasing the stability of the microspheres, chemical inertness minimising the risk of 
interactions, and availability as a highly purified material.  
Phospholipids  were  chosen  to  stabilise  the  perflutren  microspheres  because  they  are:  endogenous  to 
biological systems (DPPC and DPPA are major constituents of human cell membranes), commercially 
available  from  non-animal  sources  and  amphiphilic  (formation  of  microspheres  in  aqueous  systems 
readily  achievable).  MPEG5000  DPPE,  for  which  satisfactory  data  on  composition,  manufacture, 
control  and  toxicology have  been  provided  (see  non  clinical  section), has  been  selected  to  minimise 
recognition  by  the  reticuloendothelial  system.  DPPA,  imparting  a  charge  to  the  microspheres,  was 
chosen  to  reduce  coalescence.  The  ratio  of  the  three  lipids  has  been  optimised  during  development 
with  regards  to  microsphere  size  distribution  and  presence  of  unincorporated  phospholipids.  The 
phosphate  buffer  has  been  incorporated  in  the  formulation  for  phospholipids  stability  purposes. 
Sodium  chloride  is  used  as  a  tonicity  agent,  propylene  glycol  to  improve  the  wetability  of  the 
phospholipids  during  compounding,  and  glycerol  to  increase  the  viscosity,  which  is  believed  to 
enhance the microspheres stability. 
The microspheres have been satisfactorily characterised mainly in term of size distribution before and 
after activation, structure, lipid envelopment of perflutren and coalescence.  
All the excipients are controlled according to satisfactory specification. The finished product does not 
contain  any  component  of  animal/human  origin.  The  phospholipids  are  incorporated  during  the 
manufacture of the finished product as a lipid blend, for which satisfactory data have been provided 
concerning  description/validation  of  the  manufacturing  process,  specification,  batch  analysis  data, 
description and validation of analytical methods and stability data/retest period. 
Satisfactory  specifications  have  been  provided  for  the  type  I  borosilicate  glass  vials  treated  with 
ammonium  sulphate  and  the  chlorobutyl  elastomeric  stoppers.  This  type  of  vial  was  selected  as 
primary  packaging  material  as  exposure  of  untreated  glass  surfaces  to  phosphates  is  known  to 
delaminate  silica  and  to  generate  particles.  The  integrity  of  the  seal,  especially  with  regards  to  the 
perflutren gas content in the headspace, has been confirmed by a dye ingress test and by stability data.  
Satisfactory  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  data  have  been  provided  in  support  of  chemical  and  acoustic 
equivalence of the 3 different formulations used in clinical studies (see clinical section). 
3/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When  administered  by  infusion  Luminity  may  be  diluted  with  sodium  chloride  9 mg/ml  (0.9%) 
solution  for  injection  or  glucose  50 mg/ml  (5%)  solution  for  injection.  This  results  in  a  fall  in 
concentration  perflutren  microspheres,  which  can  be  overcome  by  increasing  the  infusion  flow  rate, 
thereby  maintaining  the  image  quality  (see  SPC  section  4.2).  No  significant  effect  on  microsphere 
distribution was observed when samples were exposed to flow rates and needle diameters (18 and 20 
gauge needles) of clinical relevance indicating the microspheres are deformable.  
Before use, Luminity has to be activated with a mechanical shaking device (Vialmix) not part of the 
presentation of the medicinal product but to be provided to healthcare professionals by Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Pharma Belgium Sprl. The duration and frequency of oscillation of the shaker has been set up 
so  that  acceptable  fraction  of  microspheres  falls  within  the  clinically  important  range.  It  was  shown 
that the concentration of large microspheres will not increase unacceptably if the activation period is 
prolonged or if the oscillation frequency deviates from the target. If directly administered to patients 
without activation, the product will not produce its intended effect, because only the gas dispersion is 
echogenic. The vialmix is designed to cut off after the set up optimum activation time (45  seconds) 
and  in  case  the  activation  process  is  interrupted  before  completion,  an  audible  alarm  and  a  visual 
display message will activate.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The method of manufacture involves the following operations: dissolution of the lipid blend, addition 
of  the  remaining  excipients,  dilution,  sterile  filtration,  filling,  stoppering,  transfer  of  the  vials  in  a 
lyophiliser where the vacuum created is released with sterile perflutren gas, sealing of the previously 
stoppered vials with an aluminium seal, terminal sterilisation by autoclaving and packaging.  
The  conditions  of  the  terminal  sterilisation  have  been  slightly  modified  compared  to  the  PhEur 
reference  conditions  in  order  to  minimise  potential  hydrolytic  degradation  of  the  phospholipids. 
Nevertheless, the chosen sterilisation cycle has been validated and it has shown a satisfactory lethality. 
Satisfactory in-process controls have been defined. 
Validation  data  provided  for 
reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
three  consecutive  full-scale  batches  confirm  robustness  and 
•  Product Specification 
Before  activation,  the  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for 
appearance,  container/closure,  particulates,  perflutren  identity  (IR),  perflutren  assay  (GC),  DPPC 
assay  (HPLC),  DPPA  assay  (HPLC),  MPEG5000  DPPE  assay  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (RP 
HPLC), content uniformity (PhEur), volume, pH, sterility and endotoxins. 
After  activation,  the  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for 
extractable  volume  (PhEur),  stereo  microscopy,  microsphere  size  distribution,  microspheres 
concentration, perfutren volume (GC). 
The microsphere size distribution specification has been satisfactorily justified in terms of safety and 
efficacy and it reflects batches used in non-clinical and clinical studies. Stereo microscopy is used to 
ensure that the number of large microspheres is limited. 
Batch  analyses  data  provided  for  three  batches  manufactured  at  the  commercial  manufacturing  site 
confirm compliance with the specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability of the Product before activation 
Stability data have been provided for 3 batches  manufactured at the commercial  manufacturing site. 
Under  long-term  conditions  (5°C±3°C  -  commercial  packaging  –  upright  and  optional  inverted 
position)  and  under  2-year  data  have  been  provided.  Under  accelerated  conditions  (25°C/40%  RH  - 
commercial packaging - upright and optional inverted position) 6-month data have been provided.  
4/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  parameters  tested  included  appearance,  particulates,  perflutren  identity  (IR),  perflutren  assay, 
perfutren  volume,  DPPC  assay  (HPLC),  DPPA  assay  (HPLC),  MPEG5000  DPPE  assay  (HPLC), 
degradation products, stereo microscopy, microspheres size distribution, pH, sterility and endotoxins. 
The observed changes were small, and not likely to have a significant effect on efficacy and safety of 
the product when used according to the directions in the SPC 
Photostability studies have shown that the finished product is non-light sensitive.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Stability of the Product after activation 
It  has  been  shown  that  the  microspheres  remain  ‘active’  for  12  hours  after  activation,  sufficient  to 
allow image enhancement in vivo. 
Studies investigated the effect of reactivation after initial activation on the microspheres characteristics 
and the results show that a second activation is possible within 48 hours and that the product may be 
used up to 12 hours after the second activation. 
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised,  documented  and  it  is  very  stable  The  pharmaceutical 
development has focused on selecting a product giving a uniform and reproducible microsphere size 
distribution  characteristics  following  activation.  Some  of  the  excipients  are  compendial  and 
satisfactory data have been provided in support of the non-compendial ones. The packaging material is 
well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  enhances  to  obtain  reproducible  finished  product 
batches. Stability tests under ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf 
life. Moreover, a satisfactory post-activation in-use shelf-life has been established. At the time of the 
CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  number  of  minor  unresolved  quality  issues  having  no  impact  on  the 
benefit-risk balance of the product. The applicant committed to resolve these as Follow Up Measures 
after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  applicant  has  developed  in-vitro  and  used  in-vivo  models  in  mouse,  rats  and  dogs  to  study  the 
pharmacodynamic effects of Luminity as a contrast agent used in conjunction with ultrasound in order 
to aid in the diagnosis and assessment of myocardial perfusion defects. Pivotal studies were conducted 
according to GLP guidelines. 
Pharmacology 
Luminity is a lipid-encapsulated perflutren filled microsphere dispersion. It contains a blend of 3 lipids 
dipalmitoylphosphatidic 
and 
dipalmitoylphosphatidylethanolamine polyethylene glycol (MPEG5000-DPPE). 
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine 
(DPPA), 
(DPPC) 
acid 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
An in vitro testing system was developed that allowed the acoustic attenuation of activated Luminity 
to  be  measured  at  ultrasonic  energy,  frequencies  and  pulse  repetition  rates  similar  to  those  used 
clinically. Ultrasound video intensity was directly related to the concentration of activated Luminity. 
In vitro activated Luminity was significantly more stable to ultrasound exposure when diluted in blood 
than in saline. Further, the rate of disappearance of contrast agent in blood or saline was related to the 
acoustic output of the ultrasound scan head and to increases in the ambient pressure. A comparison of 
microspheres  made  with  the  lipid  composition  of  Luminity  and  either  PFP  gas  or  air  indicated  that 
both had strong ultrasound contrast.  
5/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies  were  performed  in  the  anaesthetized  open-chest  dog  to  assess  various  ultrasound  contrast 
modes  as  well  as  to  compare  bolus  and  infusion  of  different  dose  levels  of  activated  Luminity.  The 
results  showed  that  activated  Luminity  allowed  effective  assessment  of  left  ventricular  opacification 
(LVO) with fundamental imaging when given at an optimal level as an intravenous bolus (3-10μL/kg) 
or  2  minute  (10  μl/kg)  administration.  Similarly  myocardial  perfusion  imaging  was  achieved  using 
gated  second  harmonic  imaging  with  activated  Luminity  administration  at  the  same  optimal  dose 
levels.  Data  with  intravenous  (IV)  administration  at  a  dose  of  9  µl/kg/min  in  saline  demonstrated 
steady  state,  homogeneous  enhancement  without  ventricular  shadowing  over  30  minutes.  These 
findings were extended by examination of myocardial perfusion patterns in dogs following coronary 
occlusion and reperfusion. Accurate detection of induced myocardial perfusion defects was achieved 
with  activated  Luminity  administered  over  2  minutes  at  10  μl/kg  using  gated  second  harmonic 
imaging.  Similarly,  activated  Luminity  administered  over  2  minutes  at  the  optimal  dose  of  3  μL/kg 
allowed  both  gated  second  harmonic  pulse  imaging  and  gated  harmonic  angio  pulse  imaging  to 
accurately detect these perfusion defects.  
The  use  of  activated  Luminity  for  assessment  of  microcirculatory perfusion  has  been  indicated  by  a 
number  of  collaborative  studies  and  published  reports.  The  ability of  activated  Luminity  to  improve 
accuracy  of Doppler  ultrasonographic diagnosis  of testicular  ischemia  was  demonstrated  in  a  canine 
model where the testicular artery was ligated. An intravenous injection of 10-25 μL/kg was shown to 
improve duplex sonographic evaluation [1]. Activated Luminity has also been shown to have potential 
in  monitoring  placental  flow  in  gravid  baboons  and  myocardial  opacification  in  rhesus  monkeys. 
Activated Luminity may also be useful for early detection of metastatic focal lesions in the liver [2] .  
In this study, the contrast enhancement of the VX-2 tumors correlated well with the angiographic and 
histopathological appearance of the tumor and the borderline of the tumour could be clearly delineated 
from the surrounding liver parenchyma.   
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies have been performed. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies in the dog demonstrated that doses up to 25 times the clinical dose (0.5 
ml/kg)  did  not  affect  cardiopulmonary  function.  At  higher  doses  marked  increase  in  respiration  rate 
and  pulmonary  arterial  pressure  were  observed.  However,  even  in  a  model  where  severe  pulmonary 
compromise was induced, the highest dose tested (0.2 ml/kg [10 times the clinical dose]) did not affect 
cardiopulmonary function. Testing of Luminity 12 hr after activation, containing a lower PFP content 
indicated even lower cardiopulmonary toxicity. In addition to the total dose administered, a study in 
rats suggested the rate of activated Luminity administration also influenced the occurrence of clinical 
signs. Examination of the affect of activated Luminity on the microcirculation indicated a very small 
fraction  (1.2%)  of  the  administered  dose  was  retained  and  this  transient  retention  did  not  have  a 
detrimental  effect  on  the  systemic  hemodynamics  even  at  40  times  the  clinical  dose  (800  μl/kg). 
Furthermore  the  lack  of  any  histopathological  signs  of  brain  damage  following  carotid  artery 
administration of activated Luminity to rats at five times the clinical dose (100 μl/kg) supports the lack 
of  effect  on  the  microcirculation.  Additional  safety  of  activated  Luminity  was  demonstrated  in  the 
rhesus monkey where cardiovascular and ECG effects were not seen even at 50 times the clinical dose 
(1000 μl/kg). ImaRx collaborative studies with poorly characterized Luminity indicated administration 
up to 1 ml/kg did not affect the  central nervous system (CNS), respiratory system or cardiovascular 
system. Further, activated Luminity did not affect urinary output or electrolyte balance. In vitro studies 
with  blood  cells  also  showed  activated  Luminity  had  no  effect  on  histamine  release,  production  of 
reactive oxygen species or platelet aggregation in rabbits and humans. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have been performed. 
6/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were aimed at evaluating the distribution and clearance of the components of 
activated Luminity microspheres. Two of the three phospholipids are endogenous (DPPC and DPPA) 
and  the  amount  administered  in  activated  Luminity  represents  a  minor  amount.  Pharmacokinetic 
studies were therefore based on the non-endogenous components. The MPEG5000 DPPE component 
of Luminity is not an endogenous phospholipid (although DPPE is) and therefore, its distribution and 
metabolic  fate  was  followed  using  14C-MPEG5000  DPPE  in  conscious  Sprague  Dawley  rats. 
Similarly,  the  gas  component  of  the  PFP  filled  microspheres  was  followed  using  a  validated  gas 
chromatographic method. Blood and expired air levels of PFP were measured following intravenous 
administration of activated Luminity in dogs. 
•  Pharmacokinetics of MPEG5000 DPPE  
The  pharmacokinetics,  tissue  distribution  and  elimination  of  total  radioactivity  following  an 
intravenous  bolus  injection  of  14  C-MPEG5000  DPPE  incorporated  in  activated  Luminity  were 
determined in Sprague-Dawley rats following a 1 ml/kg IV injection (0.9 µCi/kg). The rat was chosen 
for these studies because of its use in toxicity studies and the flexibility to allow tissue distribution to 
be  determined  in  replicate  at  multiple  time  points.  14C-MPEG5000  DPPE  exhibited  a  bi-phasic 
clearance from the blood with a terminal half-life of 10.6 hr and a small volume of distribution. By 72 
hr, the majority of radioactivity (71.5%) had been cleared in the urine with no significant retention in 
any of the tissues. At 4 hr post dose, the highest concentrations of activity were in the liver (17.8 % of 
the  injected  dose)  and  plasma  (17.2%  of  the  injected  dose).  At  1  hr  post-injection,  80%  of the  dose 
was present in the plasma with 60% of the activity in the form of  14 C-MPEG5000 lysophosphatidyl 
ethanolamine (LPE) (produced by hydrolysis of a single palmitic acid). The metabolite profile in the 
urine at 4 hr showed 90% of the radioactivity in the form of  14 C-MPEG5000, indicating loss of the 
phospholipid. Radioactivity in the feces was below the limit of detection for metabolic profiling. 
•  Pharmacokinetics of perflutren 
The  in  vivo  kinetics  of  the  PFP  component  of  activated  Luminity  was  studied  following  single 
intravenous administration in male beagle dogs. Following administration of activated Luminity, PFP 
concentrations in blood and expired air were measured. Limited sensitivity of the gas chromatographic 
method  precluded  determination  of  the  blood  PFP  levels  following  administration  of  low  and  mid 
doses of activated Luminity. At the high dose level of 1000 µl/kg, peak blood concentrations were in 
the range 0.0258 to 0.0452 µL PFP/ml. Tmax ranged from 10 to 45 seconds post-dose. The mean AUC 
was  estimated  to  be  3,237  nl•sec/ml  with  a  mean  elimination  half-life  of  61  seconds  and  mean 
systemic clearance of ~ 19 ml/(kg•sec). The volume of distribution was estimated to be 1,720 ml/kg. A 
linear  one-compartment  analysis  appeared  to  best  fit  the  data.  The  large  volume  of  distribution  is 
attributable to the rapid PFP clearance from the blood without attaining a steady state equilibrium in 
the blood.  
At the middle and high doses, an initial rapid elimination of PFP was observed in the expired air with 
plateau  levels  attained  by 2  or  4  minutes,  respectively.  Total  PFP  eliminated  in  expired  air  over  the 
course  of  the  study  for  these  groups  was  determined  to  be  ~  117%  of  the  theoretical  total  dose 
administered indicating that all of the material was excreted from the body. Mean lung clearance at the 
high dose was determined to be 24.2 ml/(kg•sec). 
Toxicology 
Toxicology studies included acute (single dose) and subchronic (up to 1 month in duration) studies in 
rats,  dogs  and  non-human  primates,  a  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genetic  toxicology  assays,  and 
developmental  and  reproductive  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Other  toxicology  studies  to  evaluate  the 
potential irritancy and antigenicity of activated Luminity were also performed. Additional toxicology 
studies  in  rats  and  non-human  primates  were  performed  to  investigate  clinical  symptomatology 
observed following high doses of activated Luminity. 
7/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The clinical signs observed in rats, dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys given single intravenous doses of 
activated  Luminity  were  decreased  activity,  increased  respiration  and  change  in  heart  rate.  They 
occurred during or soon after intravenous dosing and, apart from mortality, typically resolved within 
30 minutes after dosing. In studies conducted by the Applicant, with well-characterised Luminity, the 
no observable-effect dose (NOEL) for clinical signs was 0.1 ml/kg in rats and 1 ml/kg in cynomolgus 
monkeys given a single intravenous dose of activated Luminity. The NOEL for clinical signs in dogs 
given a single intravenous dose of activated was 0.1 ml/kg. No deaths occurred in dogs given doses 
≤ 5 ml/kg in these studies. 
The no-effect doses for clinical signs in rats, dogs and monkeys are 5, 5, and 50 times, respectively, 
the  recommended  maximum  clinical  dose  of  0.02  ml/kg  for  ultrasound  imaging  (0.01  ml/kg  with 
possible administration of a second dose of 0.01 ml/kg). When these no-effect doses are expressed in 
terms  of  the  rate  of  dose  administered,  (~  2  ml/kg/min  in  rats,  ~  2  ml/kg/min  in  dogs  and  ~  1.2 
ml/kg/min  in  monkeys),  the  margin  is  ≥ 60-fold  compared  to  the  injection  rate  for  diagnostic  use  in 
humans. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In  general,  the  spectrum  of  clinical  signs  observed  in  rats,  dogs,  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  given 
single or repeated daily intravenous injections of activated Luminity were similar. An exception is that 
only  dogs  exhibited  erythema.  As  with  single  doses,  the  clinical  signs  with  repeat  dosing  occurred 
during or soon after intravenous administration and, apart from mortality, typically resolved within 30 
minutes  in  all  species.  In  definitive  1-month  toxicity  studies  conducted  by  the  Sponsor  using  well-
characterised product, the no-observable-effect dose of activated Luminity for clinical signs was 0.1 
ml/kg/day  in  rats  and  0.3  ml/kg/day  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Transient  clinical  signs  were 
inconsistently  observed  (not  always  on  consecutive  days)  in  individual  dogs  given  doses  of  0.01 
ml/kg/day  in  a  1-week  toxicity  study.  Symptoms  were  also  seen  in  dogs  receiving  non-activated 
Luminity.  A  no-observable-effect  dose  was  not  defined  in  dogs.  The  no-observable-effect  level 
(NOEL)  for  clinical  signs  after  1  month  of  treatment  in  rats  (0.1  ml/kg/day)  and  monkeys  (0.3 
ml/kg/day) are 5 and 15 times, respectively, the recommended maximum clinical dose of 0.02 ml/kg 
for  ultrasound  imaging  (0.01  ml/kg  with  possible  administration  of  a  second  dose  of  0.01  ml/kg).  
When  these  no-observable-effect  levels  are  expressed  in  terms  of  the  rate  of  dose  administered,  (2 
ml/kg/min in rats and 1.2 ml/kg/min in monkeys), the margin is ≥ 60-fold compared to the injection 
rate for diagnostic use in humans (0.01 ml/kg administered in 30-60 seconds or 0.01-0.02 ml/kg/min). 
NOEL for clinical signs for each species and the safety margin relative to the clinical dose is given in 
the following table. 
While lung lesions were observed in rats given ≥ 0.1 ml/kg/day of activated Luminity for 1 month, no 
lung lesions were observed following a single intravenous dose ≤ 0.3 ml/kg in rats or at the tolerated 
doses (≤ 1 ml/kg) in cynomolgus monkeys (doses which are 15 and 50 times greater, respectively, than 
the recommended maximum  clinical dose of 0.02 ml/kg for ultrasound imaging). Lung lesions were 
not observed in cynomolgus monkeys even at the highest dose given (1 ml/kg/day) for 1 month.   
•  Genotoxicity 
Activated  Luminity  was  tested  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  for  potential  mutagenicity  and  clastogenicity. 
Bacterial mutagenesis (Ames assay), in vitro mammalian mutagenesis assay (L5178Y TK +/- mouse 
lymphoma cell), in vitro chromosomal  aberration assay (Chinese hamster ovary [CHO]  cell), and  in 
vivo mouse micronucleus assays were conducted. In addition to these studies genetic toxicity assays 
(bacterial  mutagenesis,  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration,  and  in  vivo  rat  micronucleus  assays)  were 
conducted. Luminity was not genotoxic. 
8/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The sponsor did not conduct carcinogenicity studies. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility 
No  Luminity  related  effects  on  fertility  or  reproductive  performance  were  observed  in  rats. 
Furthermore, there were no Luminity-related effects on uterine or ovarian parameters, or fetal survival 
at  cesarean  section  on  Day  13.  Sperm  count,  morphology  and  testicular  and  accessory  sex  gland 
weights were also not affected by activated Luminity. There were no histological findings in gonads or 
other reproductive tissues in 1-month toxicity studies in rats and monkeys. 
Embryo-fetal development 
Well-characterized  activated  Luminity  was  given  to  pregnant  female  rats  at  doses  of  0.1,  0.3  or  1.0 
ml/kg/day  at  1  ml/kg/min  from  Days  6  to  17  of  gestation.  Doses  were  selected  based  on  a  range-
finding study in which doses ≤ 1.0 ml/kg/day were not associated with maternal toxicity: however, a 
dose  of  3.0 ml/kg/day  resulted  in  maternal  death.  In  the  range-finding  study,  clinical  signs  prior  to 
death included abnormal respiration, decreased activity and unconsciousness.  There was no evidence 
of  activated  Luminity-related  maternal  or  developmental  toxicity  (fetal  growth,  survival,  and 
morphological development) in the definitive study at ≤ 1 ml/kg/day.  
In rabbit studies, Luminity was given to pregnant females at doses of 0.1, 0.3 or 1.0 ml/kg/day at 1 
ml/kg/min from Days 7 to 19 of gestation. A dose of 3.0 ml/kg/day resulted in maternal death. Clinical 
signs  prior  to  death  included  abnormal  respiration,  incoordination,  decreased  activity  and/or 
convulsions. A few  maternal deaths occurred at the  high dose of 1.0 ml/kg/day and were associated 
with  clinical  signs  that  were  similar  to  those  observed  during  the  range-finding  study.  In  addition, 
transient respiratory signs were observed in the definitive study at doses ≥ 0.3ml/kg/day. There was no 
toxicity  (fetal  growth,  survival,  and 
evidence  of  activated  Luminity-related  developmental 
morphological development) in this study, even at dose ≥ 0.3 ml/kg/day, which were associated with 
maternal toxicity. 
Pre and Postnatal Development 
Pregnant  female  rats  (F0  generation)  were  given  activated  Luminity  injected  daily  at  0.1,  0.3  or  1.0 
ml/kg/day  from  gestation  Day  6  to  lactation  Day  21,  22  or  23.  Shortly  after  dosing,  some  females 
exhibited decreased activity and a few deaths (3/22) during the gestation period in the 1.0 ml/kg/day 
group  indicating  maternal  toxicity.  There  were  no  other  signs  of  maternal  toxicity  and  reproductive 
performance  was  unaffected.  There  was  no  effect  on  survival,  physical  development,  behavior  or 
reproductive performance of the F1 generation nor on the survival and in-utero development of the F2 
generation.  The  NOEL  for  general  toxicity    (F0  generation)  was  0.3 ml/kg/day.    The  NOEL  for 
reproductive performance in the dams (F0 generation), including maintenance of gestation and delivery 
and  nursing  of  the  pups  was  1.0 ml/kg/day.  The  NOEL  on  growth,  development  and  reproductive 
performance of the F0 generation was determined to be 1.0 ml/kg/day. 
•  Local tolerance  
There was no evidence of hemolysis, or vascular or ocular irritation in studies in rabbit. Reversible, 
mild irritation produced by a single intramuscular injection of 1 ml of activated Luminity was similar 
to that produced by the weakly acidic positive control, 0.425% acetic acid (pH ~ 2.9). There were no 
activated Luminity-related gross or microscopic changes at the injection site in the general toxicology 
studies.   
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
The antigenic potential of activated Luminity was investigated in two separate studies in guinea pigs, 
each  involving  evaluation  of  active  systemic  anaphylaxis  (ASA)  and  passive  cutaneous  anaphylaxis 
9/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
(PCA) models. A weak response in the ASA model was not paralleled by a positive result in the PCA 
model.  Similarly, in another study, activated Luminity was not shown to have antigenicity in mice or 
skin sensitising potential in guinea pigs. Therefore, these studies indicate that there is little potential 
for immune-mediated hypersensitivity to activated Luminity in humans. 
Single Dose Tolerance Study in Cynomolgus Monkeys 
In  a  single  intravenous  dose  study  of  3  ml/kg  of  activated  Luminity  administered  at  a  rate  ~  1 
ml/kg/min  to  cynomolgus  monkeys  elicited  clinical  signs  (including  abnormal  respiration  and 
unresponsiveness) during or immediately following dosing. The absence of any meaningful change in 
hematology parameters or plasma levels of histamine, tryptase or complement (SC5b-9) in the current 
study  indicated  that  the  acute  response  to  activated  Luminity  was  not  an  anaphylactoid  response 
mediated  by  mast  cell  degranulation  or  activation  of  complement  system.  Abnormal 
electrocardiographic  changes  included  ST-T  segment  depression  followed  by  cardiac  arrhythmias 
within 1 minute of initiation of dosing. The acute development of ST-T segment depression is typical 
of myocardial ischemia [3].   
The  used  dose  of  3  ml/kg  is  150  times  the  maximum  recommended  human  dose  of  0.02  ml/kg  for 
ultrasound  imaging.  When  this  dose  is  expressed  in  terms  of  the  rate  of  dose  administration,  ~  1 
ml/kg/min, the margin is 50-fold compared to the diagnostic use in humans by bolus injection. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Luminity has been evaluated for potential adverse environmental effects. The focus of this evaluation 
is  the  active  ingredient  perflutren  and  the  phospholipid  components.  The  amount  of  perflutren  that 
could  enter  the  atmospheric  compartment  is  approximately  10-9  lower  than  the  estimated  total 
emissions  of  greenhouse  gases  in  the  EU  and  as  such  is  not  considered  to  pose  a  concern.  The 
predicted environmental concentration in surface waters for the phospholipid components is estimated 
to be less than 2 pg/l. Concentrations below 10 ng/l are not considered to be of concern. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Based  on  the  in  vivo  imaging  studies  performed  in  the  open  chest  dog,  the  potential  usefulness  of 
activated Luminity for cardiac imaging has been demonstrated. These findings are consistent with the 
growing clinical experience.   
The preclinical studies indicate activated Luminity is amenable to use for echocardiography. The dose 
levels to produce optimal images without shadowing in the dog (10 μl/kg) are also consistent with the 
maximum  clinical  dose  (10  μl/kg  single  dose  with  a  second  10  μl/kg  dose).  Collaborative  and 
literature studies with activated Luminity in a variety of animal models (tumor imaging in the rabbit 
and rat, testicular ischemia in the canine, monitoring placental flow in gravid baboons, blood flow in 
intraovarian  arteries  in  the  pig  and  myocardial  opacification  in  rhesus  monkeys)  also  support  the 
potential effectiveness of activated Luminity for a range of microcirculation imaging applications. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The applicant has developed in-vitro and used in-vivo models to confirm that Luminity is an effective 
contrast agent to use in conjunction with ultrasound in order to aid in the diagnosis and assessment of 
myocardial  perfusion  defects.  A  correlation  demonstrated  increased  acoustic  power  and  increased 
pressure will shorten the persistence of microspheres in circulation.  
A  dose  response  relationship  was  found  between  opacification  ability  and  duration  of  action. 
Microspheres between 1 and 10 μm are the primary contributors for imaging in the fundamental mode, 
whereas microspheres between 1-2 μm contribute primarily to imaging in the second harmonic mode.  
An open-chest occlusion/reperfusion model was used to demonstrate in-vivo pharmacodynamic effect. 
Perfusion images demonstrated a correlation between pathological necrotic areas at 20 – 60 minutes, 
but  did  not  localise  the  infarct  at  2  hrs  post  reperfusion.  Although  fundamental  imaging  was  not 
affected by time post activation up to 12 hours, the loss of microspheres between 1-2 μm resulted in 
gated second harmonic imaging only being effective at 5 minutes post activation. 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies were performed.  
10/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  amounts  of  naturally  occurring  phospholipid  (DPPA  and  DPPC)  administered  represent  an 
extremely small portion relative to their respective endogenous levels and the metabolic fate of DPPC 
and DPPA were not followed. Not naturally occurring MPEG5000-DPPE exhibited biphasic clearance 
with  a  small  volume  of  distribution  and  by  72  hours  was  cleared  from  the  circulation.  The 
MPEG5000-DPPE  is  hydrolyzed  to  MPEG  5000-  LPE  and  then  slowly  cleared  via  urine  as 
MPEG5000.  The  rat  was  chosen  for  these  studies  because  of  its  use  in  toxicity  studies  and  the 
flexibility of determining tissue distribution in replicate at multiple time points.  
The total amount of PFP administered (~350 μl to a 70 kg patient) as part of the activated Luminity 
clinical dose is low and as a gas with minimal water solubility would be expected to be cleared via the 
lungs.  Studies  were  therefore  conducted  to  follow  blood  and  expired  air  levels  following  activated  
Luminity  administration.  The  beagle  dog  was  selected  for  these  studies  because  of  the  relevance  to 
pre-clinical  efficacy  and  safety  pharmacology  studies  and  the  established  use  of  dogs  in  pulmonary 
expiration studies. PFP expired through the lungs is unchanged. 
There is no indication of any long-term retention or potential for accumulation of the non-endogenous 
components. The rapid elimination of PFP in the expired air is consistent with the rapid disappearance 
of ultrasound contrast after activated Luminity administration. Since PFP is cleared via the lungs, the 
possibility  exists  that  PFP  could  interfere  with  efficient  pulmonary  gas  exchange  and  affect  PO2. 
However, the small amount of PFP administered to patients (≤350 μl to a 70 kg patient) compared to 
the  lung  capacity  (>4  l)  and  mixing  volume  (>1  l/min  [4]  make  this  unlikely  to  have  any  clinical 
relevance. 
Toxicology 
The applicant has performed a number of single dose toxicity studies in mouse, rat and dog. Repeat 
dose toxicity studies were conducted in rat, beagle dog and cynomolgus monkey. The no-observable-
effect doses (NOELs) for clinical signs after 1 month of treatment in rats (0.1 ml/kg/day) and monkeys 
(0.3  ml/kg/day)  are  5  and  15  times  the  recommended  maximum  clinical  dose  of  0.02  ml/kg  for 
ultrasound imaging (0.01 ml/kg with possible administration of a second dose of 0.01 ml/kg). 
When  these  no-observable-effect  doses  are  expressed  in  terms  of  the  rate  of  dose  administered,  (2 
ml/kg/min in rats and 1.2 ml/kg/min in monkeys), the margin is ≥ 60-fold compared to the injection 
rate for diagnostic use in humans (0.01 ml/kg administered in 30-60 seconds or 0.01-0.02 ml/kg/min. 
Luminity has not shown any mutagenic activity in several in vitro studies carried out in a large range 
of genotoxicity test. With these data and according to CPMP/ICH/141/95 guideline Luminity can be 
considered as a non-genotoxic substance. 
Genotoxicity studies conducted did not indicate potential of mutagenicity or clastogenicity. Therefore 
the lack of carcinogenicity studies is considered justified [5]. 
There  is  no  evidence  of  Luminity  induced  embryo-fetal  toxicity  in  rat  and  rabbit  reproductive 
development studies.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  haemolysis  nor  vascular  or  ocular  irritation  in  the  local  tolerance  studies 
presented. 
Luminity does not present an environmental risk following patient use. 
11/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The present application is based on a database obtained from 2827 subjects in 39 clinical studies (37 
completed and 2 ongoing). All of these studies were included in the evaluation of safety. Three further 
clinical  studies  were  ongoing  at  the  time  of  the  preparation  of  this  application,  but  no  data  were 
available from those studies at the time of database lock for the safety analyses (30 June 2004). Three 
of  the  37  completed  studies  provided  pharmacology  data  and  10  contributed  to  the  evaluation  of 
efficacy in echocardiography. Two further studies using non-linear ultrasound imaging (DMP 115-401 
and DMP 115-410) have been submitted during the assessment procedure to support the efficacy for 
the use of Luminity in echocardiography. These studies are described and discussed in the ‘Discussion 
on clinical efficacy’. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Luminity  is  an  ultrasound  contrast  agent,  comprised  of  phospholipid-encapsulated  perfluoropropane 
(PFP)  microspheres,  designed  to  enhance  echocardiographic  and  radiologic  ultrasound  images.  
Following  intravenous  (IV)  administration,  Luminity  creates  an  echogenic  contrast  effect  in  blood, 
which  can  be  observed  during  ultrasound  imaging.  PFP  is  a  component  of  the  approved  ultrasound 
contrast-enhancing agent Optison™. It is an inert gas that is  considered to be chemically unreactive 
and is not metabolised in vivo. 
The  in  vivo  human  pharmacokinetics  of  Luminity  was  evaluated  in  one  study  (DMP 115-905).  The 
pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the lipid blend (DPPA, DPPC and MPEG5000 DPPE) were not 
evaluated in clinical pharmacology studies.   
Whole  blood  and  expired  air  were  sampled  at  baseline  and  at  frequent  intervals  up  to  15  minutes 
following  administration  of  Luminity. PFP  concentrations  in  expired  air  and  blood  were  determined 
using the validated gas chromatographic method developed for the preclinical studies.  
•  Methods 
PFP concentrations in blood (encapsulated and free PFP combined) and expired air (free PFP) were 
measured  using  a  validated  gas  chromatographic  method  in  order  to  estimate  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters. 
•  Absorption 
In  all  subjects,  maximal  concentrations  of  PFP  (Cmax  range  =  0.79-9.52 μl/ml)  were  achieved  at 
approximately 1 to 2 minutes after start of injection.  
•  Distribution 
Binding  of  PFP  to  plasma  proteins  or  partitioning  in  blood  cells  has  not  been  studied.  However, 
protein  binding  is  expected  to  be  minimal  because  PFP  has  a  low  partition  coefficient  into  whole 
blood.  
12/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
The results in study DMP 115-905 indicated that PFP appeared to be rapidly cleared from the systemic 
circulation following IV administration of Luminity at the tested dose of 50 μl/kg (CL range: 1,088-
4,775 l/h). In most subjects, PFP was undetectable after 4 to 5 minutes in both blood  and expired air.  
PFP blood concentrations were shown to decline in a mono-exponential fashion with a mean half-life 
of 1.3 minutes in healthy subjects and 1.9 minutes in COPD subjects. 
The percent of PFP dose excreted in expired air ranged in all subjects from 15 to 85% (mean ~50%) of 
the PFP dose administered. On average, in all subjects, lung elimination accounted for approximately 
50%  of  the  total  systemic  clearance  for  PFP.  The  apparent  low  PFP  recovery  in  expired  air  in  this 
study could be due to the inability to quantify low levels of PFP by gas chromatography coupled with 
the very low quantities of administered PFP.   
•  Metabolism 
PFP  is  an  inert  gas  that  is  considered  to  be  chemically  unreactive  and  is  not  metabolized  in  vivo 
(Hutter et al., 1999). No metabolism studies for PFP were performed. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependency 
Maximal  concentrations  of  PFP  (Cmax  0.79–9.52  µl/ml)  were  achieved  at  approximately  1 to 
2 minutes after start of injection. This was possibly related to transit from site of administration to site 
of blood sampling.  
In study DMP 115-905, mean time to maximum Doppler intensity (tmax) was similar compared to the 
the  noncompartmental  analysis  (1.13 vs 
PFP  blood  maximum  concentration  (tmax)  from 
1.77 minutes).  Though  PFP  concentrations  in  blood  fell  below  detectable  limits  in  most  subjects  by 
4 to 5 minutes, the Doppler signal intensity was still measurable at levels well above baseline values. 
Mean PFP blood half-life
for healthy subjects was 1.3 minutes and 1.9 minutes for COPD subjects as 
estimated from the noncompartmental analysis. The Doppler measurements indicate that microspheres 
of  Luminity  containing  PFP  continue  to  be  present  in  the  circulation  for  approximately  10 minutes 
even though the PFP is not detectable by the gas chromatographic assay. 
•  Special populations 
PFP  systemic  clearance  was  26%  lower  on  average  in  women  than  men  (2907 l/h  vs  2302 l/h,  all 
subjects), resulting in an increase of 67% in maximum concentration (Cmax) and 3% in area under the 
concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity (AUC∞).  However, none of these differences were 
statistically significant. CLlung was lower (by 51%) in women than men (all subjects). 
The concentration-time curves of blood PFP for both normal  subjects and COPD subjects  showed a 
delayed  but  rapid  rise  to  Cmax  for  most  study  subjects.  After  reaching  Cmax,  PFP  concentrations 
declined  in  a  log-linear  fashion  for  both  normal  and  COPD  subjects.  Average  concentration-time 
profiles for all subjects were similar between both groups (normal versus COPD).  
No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  in  the  comparison  of  normal  versus  COPD 
subjects for Cmax, tmax, AUClast, AUC t1/2, CL, Vss or CLlung.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Drug-drug interaction studies have not been performed with Luminity. 
13/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Luminity  has  no  pharmacologic  action.    However,  as  confirmed  in  preclinical  studies,  Luminity 
exhibits  lower  acoustic  impedance  than  blood,  thus  it  produces  its  effect  by  increasing  the  intrinsic 
backscatter of ultrasound beams from blood.  The interface between Luminity bubble and blood acts 
as  a  reflector  of  the  ultrasound  beam  thus  enhancing  blood  echogenicity  and  increasing  contrast 
between the blood and the surrounding tissues. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
DMP 115-900  was  a  Phase 1  study  to  determine  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  Luminity  given  as  a 
single  IV  bolus  injection  to  healthy  adult  male  subjects.  Five  ascending  doses  of  Luminity  were 
studied, and each Luminity dose was compared to placebo.   
The preliminary efficacy results of DMP 115-900 indicated that the median visual scores for contrast 
enhancement were higher in the Luminity-treated groups compared with placebo.   
Quantitative  assessment  of  the  effects  of  Luminity  on  the  enhancement  of  the  cardiac  images  was 
performed  on  the  videodensitometry  data.  Nearly  all  mean  changes  in  score  from  baseline  after 
Luminity were positive, and some were significantly different from placebo.  The mean changes were 
most pronounced for the enhancement of the left ventricle as a whole and the septal and lateral walls, 
respectively.  In  conclusion,  both  the  median  visual  scores  for  contrast  enhancement  and  the  mean 
changes  from  baseline  in  videodensitometry  were  higher  in  the  Luminity-treated  groups  than  in  the 
placebo-treated group. 
DMP 115-901  was  a  Phase 1  study  to  determine  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  Luminity  given  as 
multiple  IV  bolus  injections  in  healthy  adult  male  subjects.  The  preliminary  efficacy  results  of 
DMP 115-901 indicated that the percentage of subjects demonstrating optimal left-ventricular cavity 
enhancement during blinded visual evaluation (score of 2 or 3) was higher following the first injection 
of Luminity than following administration of placebo. 
For  both  ventricles,  the  magnitude  of  increase  in  signal  intensity  measured  by  videodensitometry 
following the first injection was larger for both blinded readers for all Luminity dose groups than for 
the placebo dose group. Also, the magnitude of increase in signal intensity following the first injection 
for  myocardial  wall  videodensitometry  was  generally  larger  for  all  Luminity  dose  groups  than  the 
placebo dose group for the anteroseptal and anterior walls, and for the 10 and 15 μL/kg dose groups 
for the inferoseptal wall. 
Secondary pharmacology 
The ability of  Luminity to elicit an immune response was examined in 128 subjects from four studies. 
Assessments  included  immunoglobulins  A,  E,  G,  and  M,  histamine  (blood),  anti-double  stranded 
deoxyribonucleic acid antibody, tryptase, complement (CH50 and C3a), and lupus anticoagulant. No 
clinically  important  changes  were  noted  with  the  exception  of  activated  complement  factor  C3a.    
C3a levels increased immediately after  Luminity injection then declined over 30 minutes after dosing. 
The elevated levels had no effect on release of histamine and all subjects tolerated the agent well with 
no symptoms suggestive of hypersensitivity reaction. 
Clinical efficacy  
Ten  clinical  efficacy  studies  in  support  of  this  application  for  the  approval  of  Luminity  in 
echocardiography have been submitted. Five pivotal Phase III studies (DMP 115-004, 005, 006, 007, 
and 017) and five supportive Phase 2 studies (DMP 115-018, 022, 209, 211, and 902). All studies were 
conducted in accordance with good clinical practice (GCP). The five pivotal studies support the use of 
Luminity for contrast-enhanced echocardiographic imaging of cardiac structure (ventricular chambers 
and endocardial borders))   
14/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data  from  two  Phase  2 studies  (DMP 115-018  and  022)  support  the  use  of  Luminity  in  imaging 
ventricular chambers and endocardial border delineation during stress/rest echocardiography with non-
linear imaging in subjects with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD).  
In  addition,  supportive  data  for  the  determination  of  the  optimal  dose  of  Luminity  for  fundamental 
echocardiography are presented from a dose-ranging Phase 2 study (DMP 115-902). 
Supportive  data  presented  during  the  assessment  from  two  further  studies  (DMP 115-401  and  -410) 
support the claimed indication using non-linear ultrasound technique. 
Key Features of the Clinical Studies Supporting the Claims for Efficacy in the 
Echocardiography Indication 
Study  
No. Subjects  Mode of  
Treated with 
Luminity 
Luminity 
Administration 
(Placebo)  
Main Type of 
Ultrasound 
Imaging 
Type of Control 
Standard Diagnostic 
Technique 
PIVOTAL ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY STUDIES 
Fundamental 
DMP 115-004    69  (18)  Bolus 
Fundamental 
DMP 115-005   100  (24)  Bolus 
Fundamental 
DMP 115-006    67  (–)  Bolus 
DMP 115-007    59  (–)  Bolus 
Fundamental 
DMP 115-017    64  (–)  Bolus + infusion  Fundamental 
SUPPORTIVE ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY STUDIES 
DMP 115-018    78  (40)  Infusion 
DMP 115-022    87  (43)  Infusion 
Infusion 
DMP 115-209    69  (–) 
Non-linear 
Non-linear 
Non-linear 
Blinded
Read 
Unenhanced 
vs Enhanced 
Images 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Parallel 
Placebo 
Group 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
– 
– 
MRI 
MRI 
– 
Yes  Nuclear imaging 
Yes  Nuclear imaging 
No 
Coronary 
angiography 
–* 
– 
DMP 115-211    26  (–)  Bolus + infusion  Non-linear 
DMP 115-902    42  (14)  Bolus 
*  Study DMP 115-211 was uncontrolled and enrolled healthy subjects. 
**  The final diagnosis acted as a comparison for diagnostic accuracy; contrast-enhanced CT or MRI was a comparison for 
Fundamental 
–* 
Yes 
–* 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
concordance 
CT=computed tomography, IVP=intravenous pyelography, MRI=magnetic resonance imaging 
Note: Institutional reads were performed in all of the 15 studies. 
•  Dose response study 
DMP 115-902  was  a  single-blind,  randomised,  multicentre,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group,  dose-
ranging study performed in 29 male and 27 female patients referred for diagnostic echocardiography.  
The primary objectives were to determine the safety and tolerability of Luminity as well as to investigate 
the  dose  effect  of  contrast  enhancement  in  facilitating  visualisation  of  the  cardiac  chambers  and 
enhancement of the myocardial walls following an IV injection of Luminity (42 patients) or a placebo (14 
patients) control during a 2-D echocardiographic exam. 
56 subjects (mean age was 54.8years)  were randomised to receive a single dose of Luminity (5, 10, or 
15 μl/kg) or placebo as an IV bolus injection.  
Each  subject  underwent  continuous  echocardiography  using  optimal  baseline  settings  starting  3 minutes 
before administration of study medication and continuing for at least 15 minutes post-injection or until the 
echocardiographic image returned to baseline.  
Images were evaluated by the investigators (institutional read) and by three independent cardiologists 
who were blinded to subject information, dose of the imaging agent, and type of image (pre-vs post-
15/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
injection).  All  subjects  were  monitored  for  safety  prior  to  and  following  the  Luminity  or  placebo 
administrations. 
Results 
The percentages of subjects with optimal enhancement in the Luminity dose groups were as follows: 
Reader 1: 5 μl/kg 100.0%, 10 μl/kg 92.3%, 15 μl/kg 100.0% 
Reader 2: 5 μl/kg 100.0%, 10 μl/kg 84.6%, 15 μl/kg 100.0% 
Reader 3: 5 μl/kg 100.0%, 10 μl/kg 92.3%, 15 μl/kg 100.0% 
The percentages of subjects with optimal left-ventricular enhancement were comparable among Luminity 
dose groups for all readers. Duration of optimal enhancement (blinded read) ranged from 54 to 102 seconds 
at 5 μl/kg, from 82 to 130 seconds at 10 μl/kg, and from 130 to 179 seconds at 15 μl/kg. Time to optimal 
enhancement was significantly longer in the 10 and 15 μl/kg groups compared to the 5-μl/kg group. 
•  Main studies  
Efficacy data for the 10μl/kg dose of Luminity are available from the 5 pivotal cardiology trials DMP 
115-004, -005, -006, -007, and –017.  
DMP 115-004, -005 are randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, phase 
III  studies  conducted  on  subjects  who  had  been  referred  for  evaluation  of  ventricular  function  and  had 
suboptimal echocardiographic images.   
DMP 115-006, -007 are open-label, non-randomized, multicenter Phase III studies conducted on subjects 
with suboptimal echocardiographic images.   
DMP  115-017  is  a  phase  III,  multicenter,  open-label  crossover  trial  to  compare  the  ability  of 
Luminity, when administered as an infusion versus a slow bolus injection, to visually demonstrate LV 
cavity enhancement and to improve EBDL in patients with suboptimal echocardiographic images. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Inclusion Criteria 
Studies  DMP  115-  004+005  adult  patients  with  suspected  or  known  cardiac  disease,  referred  for 
evaluation  of  ventricular  function,  and  pretrial  unenhanced  suboptimal  echocardiographic  images  in 
the 4- or 2-chamber view 
Studies  DMP  115-  006+007  adults,  who  had  a  pretrial  unenhanced  suboptimal  echocardiographic 
images in the 4- or 2-chamber view (suboptimal  is considered if at least two of six segments of the 
ventricular border were not evaluable) 
Study DMP 115-017 adults, with suspected cardiac disese, who had a pretrial unenhanced suboptimal 
echocardiographic images in the 4-chamber view  
Exclusion Criteria 
Patients who met any one of the following criteria were excluded from the trials: 
-Presented with a contraindication relative to MRI imaging (e.g., indwelling pacemaker, intracranial  
clips, severe claustrophobia, intra-auricular or intra-ocular implants, metal fragments in the eyes, etc.) 
-Had a history of acute disease that could influence the patient’s ability to complete trial procedures 
(unstable  angina,  acute  myocardial  infarction  [within  90  days],  marked  ventricular  ectopy  [>10 
premature ventricular contractions per minute], atrial fibrillation with variable ventricular response) 
-Had existing NYHA Class IV CHF or severe COPD 
-Had an existing right-to-left ventricular shunt 
Treatments 
Studies DMP 115-004 and -005 
16/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were randomly assigned to one of three dose groups (placebo, 5 µ/kg Luminity, or 10 µl/kg 
Luminity).  Patients  in  each  dose  group  were  assigned  to  receive  two  identical  single  IV  bolus  dose 
administrations  in  a  large  forearm  vein  followed  immediately  by  a  10-ml  saline  flush  at  a  rate  of  1 
ml/sec. The two dose administrations were separated by a minimum 30-minute period.  
Echocardiographic imaging sessions began about 60 seconds before each dose and continued for about 
5 minutes  after  the  injection.   On  the  first  session,  images  were  acquired  for 30  seconds  each  at  the 
apical  4-  and  2-chamber  views,  both  at  baseline  and  postinjection.    Following  at  least  a  30-minute 
period, there was a second imaging session with imaging acquisition for at least 10 seconds per view 
(apical 4- and 2-chamber; parasternal long-axis; subcostal 4-chamber; and mid-ventricular, apical, and 
basal short-axis), both at baseline and postinjection. 
Studies DMP 115-006 and -007 
All  patients  were  scheduled  to  receive  two  10  µl/kg  IV  injections  of  Luminity.  Each  dose  was 
administered  through  an  18-  to  20-gauge  needle  situated  in  a  large  forearm  vein.  There  was  a 
minimum 20-minute washout period between the injection for Imaging Session 1 and the injection for 
Imaging Session 2. 
Fundamental  2-D  gray-scale  images  were  obtained  before  and  after  the  first  Luminity  injection 
beginning  with  the  acquisition  of  pre-contrast  baseline  images.    Image  acquisition  for  each  session 
began  approximately  2  minutes  before  each  administration  of  the  trial  medication  (Luminity)  and 
continued for approximately 60 seconds (20 seconds at each of the following myocardial views: apical 
4-chamber  view,  apical  2-chamber  view,  and  parasternal  mid-ventricular  short-axis  view)  following 
dose administration. 
Study DMP 115-017 
All  patients  underwent  two  imaging  sessions  (A  and  B)  with  Luminity;  the  imaging  sessions  were 
separated by 24 to 72 hours. During imaging session A, each patient received an infusion of 1.3 ml of 
Luminity diluted in 50 ml of preservative-free saline. During imaging session B, each patient received 
two single bolus injections of 10 ml/kg of Luminity (total dose during session B was 20 ml/kg). The 
injection  was  given  as  a  slow  bolus  over  30  to  60  seconds,  followed  by  a  5  ml  saline  flush 
administered over two minutes.  
Echocardiographic imaging of the apical 4-chamber view was obtained prior to, during, and following 
each of the imaging sessions. 
Objectives 
DMP115 –004 –005 -017 
The primary objectives of these trials were to assess : 
•  The ability of Luminity to visually demonstrate LV cavity enhancement 
•  The ability of Luminity to improve endocardial border delineation 
•  The safety of two single IV doses of Luminity. 
The secondary objectives of these trials were to evaluate or examine: 
•  Duration of LV cavity enhancement 
•  The  ability  of  contrast  enhancement  provided  by  Luminity  to  improve  the  diagnostic 
confidence,  wall-motion detection and quality of EF determination. 
DMP115 –006 –007 
The  primary  objective  of  these  trials  were  to  compare  the  accuracy  of  echocardiographic  ejection 
fraction  (EF)  measures  obtained  before  and  after  the  administration  of  Luminity  relative  to  EF 
assessments  determined from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). 
The secondary objectives of this trial were as follows:  
o  evaluate  the  number  of  patients  who  show  improvement  in  the  number  of  ventricular 
segments  correctly  characterized  after  Luminity  administration  relative  to  MRI  during 
wall-motion evaluation 
17/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  examine the percentage of patients for whom EF classification changes and for whom EF 
classification is correctly identified after Luminity administration relative to MRI 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Results  for  the  efficacy  of  the  bolus  dose  reported  in  this  summary  are  based  on  the  first  10μL/kg 
bolus injection only.  A second bolus dose was routinely given in all studies, as this is likely to occur 
in clinical practice; it was primarily included to demonstrate safety.  
In  studies  DMP 115-004,  005,  and  017  the  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  left-ventricular  cavity 
enhancement score based on the pair wise qualitative interpretation of the first baseline image and the 
post-injection image for each subject. 
Patients were classified according to one of the two following categories: 
"Enhanced" corresponding to a score of 2 or 3 (adequate or full enhancement) 
"Other" corresponding to a score of 0, 1, or 9 (no, weak, or excessive enhancement)  
The  primary  objective  of  studies  DMP 115-006  and  007  was  to  compare  the  accuracy  of 
echocardiographic ejection fraction measures obtained before and after the administration of DMP 11 
Luminity to ejection fraction measures obtained from MRI. 
All  studies  Endocardial  border  delineation  was  measured  in  all  of  the  5  pivotal  studies.  An 
improvement in delineation occurred when a segment that was scored as non-evaluable at baseline was 
scored  as  evaluable  in  the  corresponding  apical  view  after  injection  with  Luminity.  In  studies 
DMP 115-004, 005, 006, and 007, the evaluation was based on the 12-segment model for the apical 4- 
and 2-chamber views. In study DMP 115-017, the evaluation was based on the six segments visualized 
in the apical 4-chamber view. 
Secondary  efficacy  measures  were  Wall  motion  also  evaluated  as  a  secondary  objective  in  each  of 
12 myocardial segments according to a five-point scale (0=non-evaluable, 1= normal or hyperkinetic, 
2=hypokinetic, 3=akinetic, 4=dyskinetic).  The number of myocardial segments with an exact match 
in wall-motion grade between MRI and echocardiography with and without Luminity was determined. 
The  number  was  converted  to  a  percentage  ([number  matching  segments/12]  *100)  to  measure 
agreement between the echocardiographic and MRI evaluations. An analogous evaluation based on a 
classification  of  wall  motion  as  normal  (score:  0  or  1)  or  abnormal  (score:  2,  3,  or  4)  was  also 
performed. 
Sample size 
-004 –005 The sample size was calculated for 80% power and a two-tailed test for significance level 
of  0.05.  A  sample  size  of  31  patients  per  dose  group  was  necessary  to  show  a  difference  in  the 
duration of contrast enhancement between the 5 and the 10 μL/kg doses. When a 2:2:1 ratio (Luminity 
10 μl/kg: Luminity 5 μl/kg:placebo)  was used, 80 patients (32:32:16) were needed to be enrolled in 
this trial. 
-006 –007 -017 Assuming a Type I error of 0.05 and 80% power (Type II error of 0.2), a sample size 
of 50 was needed for the 10% expected mean difference in relative error from MRI in EF.  
Blinding (masking) 
DMP115-004 -005 were double-blinded placebo controlled trials.  
DMP115-006 -007 -017  were open-label trials; therefore, no methods were needed to blind the trial 
medication.  Image  evaluation  was  performed  via  a  blinded  evaluation  of  the  imaging  tapes, 
independent of imaging session knowledge. 
18/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
-004 -005 A two-sample test of proportions, with Fisher’s exact test was used. Statistical significance 
was determined at the 0.025 level, with Bonferroni adjustment. 
-006  -007  For  the  primary  efficacy  analysis,  a  paired  t-test  was  applied  to  the  mean  difference  in 
relative error from MRI in EF measured by fundamental echocardiography using data from the blinded 
read.  
Results  
Participant flow / Numbers analysed / Recruitment 
Study 115-004 
The protocol specifies to enroll 80 patients across nine sites into this trial, randomly assigned to each 
dose group was: 16 for placebo and 32 for each of the DMP-treated groups (5 and 10 μL/kg). Of the 
87 patients who were randomized and entered into the trial, 86 patients (98.9%) completed the trial. 
Any  patient  who  did  not  receive  the  second  dose  of  Luminity  or  placebo  was  excluded  from  the 
analysis  of  myocardial  views  with  contrast  enhancement,  since  this  assessment  was  only  conducted 
following the second injection. 
Study 115-005 
There  were  124  patients  enrolled  into  this  trial  across  nine  sites.  Of  the  124  patients  who  were 
randomized and entered into the trial, 122 patients (98.4%) completed the trial. Two  subjects  in  the 
10 μl/kg Luminity group did not complete the study (withdrawn after the first injection due to AEs). 
Study 115-006
50  patients  were  expected  to  enter.    Overall,  67  patients  from  4  sites  were  enrolled  in  the  trial;  of 
those, 66 (99%) completed the trial. The one patient (Patient 3/8) who did not complete the trial had 
two episodes of dizziness within 10 minutes after the first injection of Luminity and, consequently, did 
not receive the second injection. 
MRI evaluations of EF were not available for four patients because of extremely poor image quality, 
which  prohibited  interpretation.  Therefore,  these  four  patients  were  not  included  in  the  primary 
efficacy analysis (or as applicable in secondary efficacy analyses). 
61 patients had images obtained with harmonic techniques.   
Study 115-007
50 patients were expected to enter the trial.  Overall, 59 patients from 4 sites were enrolled in the trial; 
all patients completed the trial. 
Study 115-017
Up to four sites were targeted to enroll 15 to 20 patients each. Up to four sites were targeted to enroll 
15  to  20  patients  (no  site  could  enroll  more  than  30  patients).  On  treatment  Day  1,  patients  were 
randomized  to  undergo  either  imaging  session  A  or  B.  On  treatment  Day  2,  patients  received  the 
alternative imaging session.  
Three patients were excluded from the primary efficacy analysis because they did not complete both 
imaging  sessions.  Therefore,  61  patients  were  included  in  the  primary  analysis  for  which  direct 
comparison of bolus and infusion administration results were required. 
Conduct of the study 
Study 115-004 
There were no changes in the planned conduct of the trial. 4 patients failed to have all required ECGs 
and only 10 patients failed to have all five laboratory profiles completed through 72 hours.  
19/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 115-005 
One  hundred  ten  patients  (89%)  had  at  least  one  protocol  deviation.  9  patients  failed  to  have  all 
required ECGs and only 12 patients failed to have all five laboratory profiles completed through 72 
hours. 
Study 115-006
Fifty patients had at least one protocol deviation. Overall, the deviations were minor and had no effect 
on  trial  results  (e.g.,  34  of  the  41  early  or  late  ECGs  were  obtained  within  1  hour  of  the  protocol 
specified time). 
Study 115-007
Forty-four patients had at least one protocol deviation. Overall, the deviations were minor and had no 
effect on trial results (e.g., 31 of the 42 early or late ECGs were obtained within 1 hour of the protocol 
specified time). 
Study 115-017 
All sixty-four patients had at least one protocol deviation. Among deviations, the most frequent were 
of  vital  signs  (58  patients)  or  ECGs  (60  patients)  not  obtained  within  the  protocol-specified  time 
windows  (e.g.  within  30  minutes).  Overall,  the  deviations  were  minor  and  had  no  effect  on  trial 
results. 
Baseline data 
Study 115-004 
A total of 87 subjects were enrolled and treated: 69 (79.3%) were male and 18 (20.7%) were female; 
The  overall  mean  (standard  deviation  [SD])  age  was  62.5  (12.3) years.  The  three  dose  groups  were 
similar with respect to age, weight, race, and gender. 10 (11.5%) patients had a history of COPD and 
33 (37.9%) patients had a history of CHF. 83 (95.4%) patients were taking cardiovascular medication 
and 69 (79.3%) patients were taking anticoagulants.  
Study 115-005 
A total of 124 subjects were enrolled and treated: 70 (56.5%) were male and 54 (43.5%) were female; 
The overall mean (SD) age was 52.1 (16.3) years. The three dose groups were similar with respect to 
age, weight, race, and gender.  
5 (4.0%) patients had a history of COPD and 29 (23.4%) patients had a history of CHF. 69 (55.6%) 
patients were taking cardiovascular medication and 50 (40.3%) patients were taking anticoagulants.  
Study 115-006 
Men and women comprised 52.2% (35 of 67) and 47.8% (32 of 67) of the population, respectively. 
The mean (SD) age was 48.9 (16.8) years. Overall, 3 (4.5%) patients had a history of COPD, and 11 
(16.4%) patients had a history of CHF. 32 (47.8%) patients used cardiovascular medications. 
Study 115-007 
Men and women comprised 67.8% (40 of 59) and 32.2% (19 of 59) of the population, respectively. 
The mean (SD) age was 55.3 (13.9) years. Overall, 5 (8.5%) patients had a history of COPD, and 21 
(35.6%) patients had a history of CHF. The most common illnesses were heart and lung findings in 19 
(32.2%) patients. 49 (83.1%) patients used cardiovascular medications. 
Study 115-017 
A total of 64 subjects were enrolled and treated: 45 (70.3%) were male and 19 (29.7%) were female. 
The  mean  (SD)  age  was  60.9  (15.7) years.  Overall,  the  most  common  finding  was  a  history  of 
cardiovascular  illness  or  injury  in  47  (73.4%)  patients.  The  most  common  findings  were 
20/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cardiovascular  and  pulmonary  in  30  (46.9%)  patients.  43  (67.2%)  patients  used  cardiovascular 
medications. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Adequate or Full Left-Ventricular Cavity Enhancement
DMP 115-004 and 005 The table below presents the percentage of subjects with adequate or full left-
ventricular  cavity  enhancement  based  on  the  blinded  read  results  in  the  qualifying  view.    In  each 
study,  the  results  from  all  three  blinded  reads  indicated  that  the  percentages  of  subjects  who 
demonstrated  adequate  or  full  left-ventricular  cavity  enhancement  after  the  injection  of  10 μl/kg  of 
Luminity were significantly greater than the percentages achieved after injection with placebo.  The 
median percentage of subjects with ventricular enhancement was similar for the blinded reads in the 
two studies: 60.6% in study DMP 115-004 and 61.2% in study DMP 115-005.  
Following  administration  of  10 μl/kg  of  Luminity  in  trials  DMP  115-004  and  -005  combined,  the 
mean duration of ventricular enhancement was approximately four minutes and the mean duration of 
clinically useful cavity enhancement was approximately 1.5 minutes. 
In study DMP 115-017, the results for the three blinded readers indicated that 86% to 98% of subjects 
demonstrated  adequate  or  full  ventricular  cavity  enhancement  for  the  qualifying  view  (apical 
4-chamber)  for  the  first  10 μl/kg  bolus  injection  of  Luminity.    By  contrast,  the  blinded  readers 
determined  that  no  subjects  (0%)  demonstrated  adequate  or  full  ventricular  cavity  enhancement  at 
baseline.  The percentages of subjects with adequate or full enhancement of images following bolus 
administration  of  Luminity  were  significantly  higher  than  baseline  based  on  the  comparison  of 
confidence intervals.  
In trial DMP 115-017 the mean duration of clinically useful ventricular cavity enhancement following 
the  first  bolus  injection  as  evaluated  in  a  blinded  read  ranged  from  155  to  234  seconds  for  the  64 
patients evaluated.   
21/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage  of  Subjects  with  Adequate  or  Full  Left-Ventricular  Cavity  Enhancement  for  the  Blinded 
Read  Based  on 
in  Studies  DMP 115-004,  005,  and  017 
(Echocardiography) 
the  Subjects’  Qualifying  View 
DMP 115-004 
Reader 1  
Reader 2  
Reader 3 
Dose Group 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
Placebo  
  18 
0.0 
(0.0, 17.3) 
  18 
0.0 
(0.0, 17.3) 
Luminity 
  33 
60.6* 
(42.2, 
73.9) 
  33 
63.6* 
(45.1, 76.3) 
18 
33 
0.0 
(0.0, 17.3) 
60.6* 
(42.2, 73.9) 
DMP 115-005 
Reader 4 
Reader 5 
Reader 6 
Dose Group 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
Placebo 
  24 
0.0 
(0.0, 13.6) 
  24 
0.0 
(0.0, 13.6) 
Luminity 
  49 
42.9* 
(29.1, 
55.8) 
  49 
77.6* 
(63.0, 85.9) 
24 
49 
0.0 
(0.0, 13.6) 
61.2* 
(46.2, 72.6) 
DMP 115-017 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
Reader 3 
Dose Group 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced
(95% CI) 
N 
% 
Subjects 
Enhanced 
(95% CI) 
Luminity 
  64 
96.9 
(88.2, 
98.0) 
  64 
85.9 
(74.5, 91.5) 
64 
98.4 
(90.5, 98.4) 
*  Indicates statistically significant difference from placebo, p≤0.01, in studies DMP 115-004 and 005, only. In study DMP 115-017, 
the percentages of subjects with adequate or full enhancement of images following bolus administration of Luminity were 
significantly higher than baseline based on comparison of the CIs. 
Note:  Luminity dose=First 10 μl/kg bolus injection.  
Endocardial Border Delineation (EBDL) 
EBDL  was  assessed  as  the  number  of  segments  that  changed  from  non-evaluable  at  baseline  to 
evaluable post injection of 10 μl/kg Luminity.  
A positive net percentage indicated that more segments changed from non-evaluable at baseline to 
evaluable post injection than changed from evaluable at baseline to non-evaluable post injection. 
22/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endocardial Border Delineation - Net Percentage of Segments with Change in Evaluability for 
the Blinded Read in Studies DMP 115-004, 005, 006, and 007  
DMP 115-
004 
Reader 1  
Reader 2  
Reader 3  
Dose 
Group 
N  Mean   
(SD) 
Placebo 
18 
  0.0
(14.3) 
Luminity 
33  24.0*# 
(25.7) 
DMP 115-
005 
(95% CI) 
N  Mean  
(95% CI) 
  N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
(–7.1, 7.1) 
18 
(SD) 
–4.2  
(15.7) 
(–12.0, 3.7) 
  18 
(SD) 
–1.9   
(13.0) 
(–8.3, 4.6) 
(14.9, 33.1) 
33 
2.3  (22.4)
 (–5.7, 
10.2) 
  32 
9.4# (18.8)
(2.6, 16.1)
Reader 4  
Reader 5  
Reader 6  
Dose 
Group 
N  Mean    
(SD) 
(95% CI) 
N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
  N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
Placebo 
24  –1.4 
(20.
(–9.9, 7.1) 
24 
Luminity 
49  13.8*# (28.
(5.7, 21.8) 
49 
(SD) 
  4.9    
(26.7) 
13.1#   
(31.4) 
(SD) 
(–6.4, 
16.1) 
24 
4.9   (17.2)
(–2.4, 12.1) 
(4.1, 22.1)
49 
13.4# 
(30.5) 
(4.7, 22.2) 
DMP 115-
006 
Reader 1 
Reader 2 
Reader 5 
Read Type  N  Mean    
(95% CI) 
N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
  N  Mean    (SD) 
 (95% CI) 
(SD) 
20.9#
 (18.5) 
22.8#
 (19.3) 
(SD) 
(16.4, 25.4) 
67 
25.2# (24.5) 
(18.0, 27.5) 
67 
41.7# (24.7) 
(19.3, 
31.2) 
(35.7, 
47.7) 
67  49.6#  (22.6)
(44.1, 55.1) 
67  54.1#  (22.9)
(48.5, 59.7) 
Reader 3 
Reader 4 
Reader 5 
Unpaired 
67 
Paired 
67 
DMP 115-
007 
Read Type  N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
N  Mean   
(95% CI) 
  N  Mean     
(95% CI) 
(SD) 
(SD) 
(SD) 
Unpaired 
59 
0.7  (19.3) 
(–4.3, 5.7) 
Paired 
59 
6.5#
(19.8) 
(1.3, 11.6) 
59 
59 
17.7# (33.6)
(8.9, 26.4) 
59  41.8#  (23.4)
(35.7, 47.9) 
29.4# (24.9)
(22.9, 
35.9) 
59  48.3#  (25.3)
(41.7, 54.9) 
* Indicates significant difference from placebo, p≤0.05 
# Indicates significant change in evaluability, p≤0.05  
Note:  Luminity dose=10 μl/kg. Efficacy results for studies DMP 115-006 and 007 are based on fundamental echocardiography injection 1. 
In trials DMP 115-004 and -005, in five of the six blinded readers, Luminity administration resulted in 
a significant improvement in endocardial border delineation over the non contrast enhanced baseline 
23/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
echocardiography examination. Results were less marked for the apical 2-chamber view. Results for 
two of the six blinded reads were statistically significantly greater for Luminity than placebo for the 
net percentage of segments with changes in the evaluability. 
In trials DMP 115-006 and -007, images were presented in both unpaired and paired format during the 
blinded read. For patients receiving 10 μl/kg of Luminity in trials DMP 115-006 and -007 statistically 
significant positive net percentages were seen for five of the six unpaired blinded reads and for all of 
the six paired blinded reads. 
For  the  unpaired  blinded  reads  the  median  values  for  net  percentage  of  segment  improvement  were 
25.2 and 17.7 per cent for trials DMP 115-006 and -007 respectively.  For the paired blinded reads the 
median value for net percentage of segment improvement in these two trials were 41.7% and 29.4% 
respectively. 
In trial DMP 115 -017 there were significant positive mean net percentages seen for all three blinded 
reads.  
For  trials  DMP  115-004  and  -005,  the  percentages  of  patients  who  showed  improvements  in 
endocardial border delineation in at least one segment were greater in patients receiving 10 μL/kg of 
Luminity compared to placebo for all six blinded reads although the equivalent results for placebo in -
004 were 35-44% and in -005 54-67%.  There were similar results in trials DMP 115-006, -007 and  -
017. 
For percentages of patients showing improvement in at least two segments the majority of numbers 
suggested improvement in at least two segments on the post contrast examination in each of the five 
echocardiography for the blinded reads. Equivalent figures for the placebo group in -004 were 17-23% 
and –005, 23-55%. 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Study 115-004 -005 
The  percentage  of  patients  demonstrating  adequate  or  full  LV  cavity  enhancement  was  0%  for  the 
placebo group for all subgroups and was generally much higher for the 5 and 10 μl/kg dose groups for 
all subgroups. The results were consistent within each subgroup (gender, age, race, history of COPD, 
history of CHF).  
Study 115-006 -007
Difference  in  relative  error  from  MRI  in  EF  showed  that  none  of  the  subpopulations  (except  for 
COPD)  achieved  a  10%  or  greater  improvement.  Overall,  results  showed  that  Luminity  converted 
more  segments  from  non-evaluable  to  evaluable  than  from  evaluable  to  non-evaluable  (relative  to 
baseline) for all subpopulations, and the results were consistent between subgroups for subpopulation. 
Study 115-017 
The  results  of  both  subpopulations  by  gender  and  age  (<65  versus  ≥65)  were  consistent  with  the 
primary efficacy results 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Analyses of results from studies that had similar or identical protocols are presented together. 
•  Supportive studies 
A total of five supportive echocardiography studies were performed: DMP 115-018, 022, 209, 211 and 
902. All studies except DMP 115-902 used non-linear ultrasound imaging. 
DMP 115-018  and  DMP  115-022  were  open-label,  randomised,  multicentre,  placebo-
controlled,  parallel-group  conducted  in  subjects  who  were  under  evaluation  for  suspected 
CAD.  Subjects  with  screening  echocardiographic  images  that  demonstrated  a  resting  wall 
24/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
motion  abnormality  were  to  be  excluded.  Subjects  in  study  DMP  115-022  had  to  have 
screening  echocardiograms  but  there  was  no  requirement  that  they  should  be  difficult  to 
interpret. 
The  primary  efficacy  measure  was  the  diagnostic  accuracy  of  echocardiographic  images  in  the 
detection of CAD.  
Both studies (DMP 115-018 and DMP 115-022) failed primary efficacy analysis which was based on 
the  comparison  of  the  ability  of  at  least  two  blinded  readers  to  detect  exercise  stress-induced  wall 
motion  abnormalities  from  echocardiography  and  classification  of  CAD  based  on  angiographic 
findings. In general sensitivity was low.  
In DMP 115-018, the sensitivity to detect CAD relative to nuclear perfusion was quite low among the 
blinded  readers  (5.3,10.5  and  26.3)  following  enhancement.  Reader  3  had  a  statistically  significant 
difference from placebo but reader 3 sensitivity for placebo was 0. Agreement in DMP group (50-58) 
was lower than in the placebo group (57-60).  
In  DMP  115-022,  the  sensitivity  was  low  among  the  blinded  readers  (32.1,  39.3  and  25)  following 
enhancement.  For  the  placebo  group  equivalent  figures  were  15.4,  53.8  and  0.  Sensitivity  therefore 
reduced for reader 5 (53.8 with placebo and 39.3 with enhancement). Agreement in DMP group (63-
73) was slightly higher than in the placebo group (58-67).  
The studies also failed in Detection of Inducible Ischaemia, Detection of Resting Abnormalities and 
Diagnostic Accuracy Based on Final Diagnosis.  
The studies were successful in a post hoc analysis. Wall Segment Evaluability, which was not planned 
in the protocol, was performed by considering number of evaluable segments per subject and by per 
segment analysis. Luminity contrast-enhanced echocardiography resulted in a statistically significantly 
greater  mean  number  of  evaluable  segments  per  subject  at  rest  in  the  Luminity  treatment  group 
compared  to  the  placebo  group  (p<0.001).  This  treatment  improvement  was  maintained  during 
exercise stress.  
DMP 115-209 was an open-label, non-randomised, Phase 2, multicentre study in which the presence 
or absence of CAD based on the blinded read of the echocardiographic images was compared with the 
institutional  results  of  the  angiographic  images  following  dipyridamole.  Patients  had  undergone  or 
were  going  to  undergo  coronary  angiography  within  30  days  prior  or  90  days  after  enhanced  echo 
imaging. 
The primary objective was to evaluate the ability of Luminity -enhanced echocardiographic imaging to 
detect  inducible  (during  dipyridamole  stress)  perfusion  abnormalities  in  subjects  with  known  or 
suspected CAD, as confirmed by coronary angiography. The secondary objectives were to assess the 
safety  of  Luminity  during  dipyridamole  stress  and  to  evaluate  the  diagnostic  accuracy  of  DMP-
enhanced echocardiographic imaging as compared with coronary angiographic confirmation of disease 
to  localise  inducible  perfusion  abnormalities  by  vascular  territory.  Imaging  was  performed  with  low 
mechanical index (MI), real-time perfusion techniques. 
Blinded read of Luminity -enhanced echocardiography results demonstrated 86% sensitivity and 80% 
specificity  for  the  detection  of  CAD  using  coronary  angiography  as  the  truth  standard.  A  similar 
sensitivity  (88%)  was  demonstrated  for  myocardial  perfusion  in  11 subjects  using  Luminity 
administered  at  the  IV  infusion  dose  labelled  in  the  USA  for  left-ventricular  opacification  and 
endocardial border delineation.  
A  subset  of  patients  from  the  original  protocol  was  selected  for  blinded  read  on  the  basis  of  use  of 
Philips  software  and  hard  ware  upgrade  and  this  reduced  the  patient  numbers  from  58  to  41. 
Consensus reading was not possible in 10 of the 41 cases and so sensitivity and specificity were based 
on relatively small numbers (31 angiography and 11 in the infusion group). 
Study  DMP 115-211  was  an  open-label,  non-randomised,  single-centre,  crossover  Phase  2  study 
conducted on healthy subjects with no evidence of cardiovascular disease. The primary objective was to 
determine the optimal IV dose and delivery technique (bolus injection versus neat infusion) of Luminity 
for  assessing  myocardial  contrast  echocardiography  MCE  and  the  primary  efficacy  measure  was  a 
quantitative segmental analysis of MCE. MCE was assessed by applying a four-point scoring system 
25/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to a 12-segment echocardiography model: 0 = minimal or no MCE, 1 = patchy MCE, 2 = homogenous 
(complete) MCE, a = artifact. Successful MCE was defined by a score of 1 or 2. Myocardial perfusion 
image  acquisition  was  performed  using  two  low-MI  pulse-inversion  Doppler  acquisition  techniques: 
continuous imaging and 1 to 1 ECG-gated imaging. 
As  the  dose  of  Luminity  increased,  independent  of  bolus  injection  or  infusion  dosing  method,  the 
percent  of  successful  MCE  increased,  thus  demonstrating  a  dose  response.  Luminity  was  equally 
effective in producing successful MCE when delivered by either bolus injection or infusion. The first 
20 subjects received neat infusions and bolus injections on independent days, and Luminity produced 
consistent and reproducible MCE on both days (p<0.001). Low-MI, ECG-gated imaging resulted in a 
greater degree of MCE than the continuous low MI imaging technique independent of dosing method. 
The data suggests that reapplication of a bolus dose before each view would further improve MCE. 
The blinded read results for the primary efficacy variable were similar for the two groups of subjects:  
neat  infusion  86% sensitivity  (95%  CI:  73.4%,  98.0%),  dilute  infusion  88%  sensitivity  (95%  CI: 
67.0%, 108.0%). Although the sample size of the subjects who received the dilute infusion was small, 
the results  suggested that Luminity was equally effective when  given as a neat IV infusion or as an 
infusion of 1.3 to 2.6 ml diluted in 50 to 100 ml saline. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The demonstration of efficacy in the initial MAA to support the use of Luminity in Echocardiography 
contained  10  studies,  5  pivotal  and  5  supportive  studies  of  which  4  used  the  non-linear  ultrasound 
technique. 
In three of the pivotal studies using harmonic imaging, the primary variable related to intensity of left-
ventricular  cavity  enhancement  (judged  in  a  subjective  but  blinded  way)  being  shown  that  the 
percentage  of  subjects  with  “optimal”  intensity  was  higher  in  the  contrast  than  in  non-contrast 
(placebo  or  no  injection)  groups  in  a  population  of  subjects  where  conventional  non-contrast 
echocardiography was considered sub-optimal using pre-established definitions.   
Two of the main secondary variables studied in the pivotal trials were endocardial border delineation 
(EDBL)  and  wall  motion.  For  EDBL  Luminity  increases  the  number  of  evaluable  segments  and  in 
some subjects with non-diagnostic (i.e. non-assessable) echocardiograms (four or more non-evaluable 
segments in a single apical view) Luminity resulted in diagnostic (i.e. assessable but not necessarily 
correct)  echocardiograms.  As  for  ‘wall  motion’,  including  after  ‘stress’  (critical  for  the  diagnosis  of 
coronary artery disease), there was an increase after Luminity in individual segments identification.  
Studies DMP 115-018 and -022 have demonstrated  efficacy in a post hoc analysis in Wall Segment 
Evaluability  defined  by  considering  number  of  evaluable  segments  per  subject  and  by  per  segment 
analysis. 
The CHMP consulted the Diagnostics Scientific Advisory Group about the possibility that results with 
Luminity in fundamental imaging can be extrapolated to non-linear imaging techniques. The advisory 
group concluded that non-linear imaging is the present state of the art for unenhanced as well as for 
enhanced ultrasound imaging. In general, it is not possible to assume that the effect of a contrast agent 
in fundamental imaging will be the same using non-linear imaging.  
Following the consultation of the expert meeting and in response to the major objections, the applicant 
submitted preliminary reports from two further studies DMP 115-410 using harmonic and DMP 115-
401 using non-linear imaging to support the claimed indication in echocardiography. 
Study  DMP  115-401  was  an  open-label,  randomised  Phase  IV  multicentre  trial  that  included  560 
patients from 27 sites. The study was designed to determine whether the use of Luminity (DMP115) 
during stress echocardiography decreases the need for additional diagnostic testing and the number of 
non-diagnostic imaging studies. Patients were required to have baseline echocardiographs classified as 
difficult-to-interpret  (i.e.  2  or  more  consecutive  segments  not  adequately  visualised)  and  were 
randomised  to  either  Luminity  enhanced  rest  and  stress  imaging  or  unenhanced  rest  and  stress 
26/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imaging. Following imaging, the investigator determined if another diagnostic test was required and at 
90  days,  a  review  was  undertaken  to  determine  whether  additional  diagnostic  testing  had  been 
performed. 376 patients received Luminity and 184 patients underwent unenhanced imaging. 
Results show that the use of Luminity contrast material to enhance echocardiography both at rest and 
during stress significantly improved diagnostic results over unenhanced testing.  A smaller percentage 
of  subjects  in  the  Luminity treatment  group  (12.2%)  were  recommended  a  follow-up  diagnostic  test 
than  in  those  subjects  who  had  unenhanced  echocardiography  (32.6%).    The  difference  was  highly 
statistically significant (p<0.0001) according to the Fisher exact test. 
Investigator  confidence  was  improved  in  78.7%  of  subjects  who  received  Luminity  compared  with 
3.3% of subjects who had unenhanced echocardiographic imaging at rest.  Echocardiographic imaging 
after an exercise stress test showed Investigator confidence was improved in 83.2% of subjects who 
received Luminity compared with 9.8% of subjects who had unenhanced echocardiographic imaging.  
Differences  between  treatment  groups  were  highly  significant  according  to  the  Wilcoxon  rank  sum 
test; p-values were <0.0001 for imaging both at rest and after the exercise stress test. 
Significantly fewer tests were actually performed in the Luminity-enhanced group (17%) than in the 
unenhanced  group  (36%),  a  statistically  significant  difference  (p<0.0001).    Despite  the  reduction  in 
number  of  tests,  outcomes  in  the  two  groups  were  similar  at  3,  6,  and  12  months,  indicating  that 
diagnoses had not been missed. 
Study DMP 115-410 was an open-label, phase IV study conducted at 4 study sites in the USA. 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  test  the  hypothesis  that  Luminity  improves  the 
diagnostic accuracy of dobutamine stress echocardiography in detecting and evaluating the extent 
of coronary artery disease (CAD) compared to non-contrast imaging, using coronary angiography 
as the standard for comparison.  
A  total  of  100  subjects  with  an  intermediate  to  high  probability  of  CAD  were  to  undergo  2 
dobutamine stress echocardiograms, 1 with Luminity (i.e. enhanced.) and 1 without Luminity (i.e. 
unenhanced). The investigator randomized the order of each subject’s echocardiograms, and a 4 to 
72 hours break separated the two procedures. 
Baseline  images  were  obtained  in  the  standard  apical  and  parasternal  views  before  performing 
stress echocardiography. 
The dobutamine infusion was started at 5 µg/kg/min. The dose was increased to 10, 20, and 40 
µg/kg/min at 3 minute intervals until the target heart rate was achieved.  
Intravenous boluses  of  1  to  2  ml  of  Luminity  solution  were  given  at  rest  and  at  3  stages  of  the 
dobutamine infusion (5 µg/kg/min, 10 µg/kg/min, and at peak dose) so that all digitized images 
were contrast enhanced. 
All subjects were to have had quantitative coronary angiography performed within 60 days prior 
to or following the dobutamine stress echocardiograms. Angiography was performed in multiple 
projections  using  the  conventional  Judkins  technique.  Subjects  with  myocardial  infarction  or 
revascularization  procedures  performed  between  the  echocardiographic  studies  and  coronary 
angiography  were  to  be  excluded.  Coronary  angiograms  were  evaluated  by  an  independent 
observer and diagnosis of CAD was based on the degree of coronary artery stenosis. 
Echocardiography  was  performed  using  harmonic  imaging  techniques.  Echocardiograms  were 
evaluated by 3 independent readers who were blinded to the clinical information during the reads.  
Comparisons  of  the  performance  of  Luminity-enhanced  echocardiography  and  unenhanced 
echocardiography were performed. Two measures were assessed by echocardiography, presence 
of ischemia and presence of abnormality, and compared with presence of disease as diagnosed by 
angiography. For angiography, presence of disease was classified as having a stenosis ≥ 50% or ≥ 
70%.  In  the  case  of  subjects  where  only  enhanced  echocardiography  allowed  an  assessment, 
unenhanced echocardiography was treated as a failure in the agreement analysis. The percent of 
27/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluable  segments  for  each  subject  was  summarized  and  compared  using  a  t-test  to  evaluate 
whether the mean percent of evaluable segments was the same in each group. 
108 subjects were enrolled and 105 completed the study. The reasons for discontinuation in the 3 
subjects who did not complete the study were withdrawal of consent in two subjects and ‘other’ in 
one subject  
Luminity  contrast  enhancement  significantly  increased  the  mean  (±SD)  overall  percentage  of 
segments  with  adequate  visualization  from  72  (±24%)  to  95  (±8%)  at  baseline  and  from  67 
(±28%)  to  96  (±7%)  at  peak  dobutamine  stress  (p<0.0001).  Similar  increases  were  seen  in 
subjects with and without CAD as defined by ≥50% stenosis in angiography. 
Unenhanced  echocardiograms  were  uninterpretable  in  8  subjects.  All  of  these  subjects  had 
interpretable echocardiograms during Luminity-enhanced imaging. 
Overall, the readers. confidence of interpretation was assessed as high in a much larger proportion 
of 
during  Luminity-enhanced 
unenhanced 
echocardiography: 74% (75/101) vs 36% (38/105) subjects. 
echocardiography 
subjects 
during 
than 
No studies with similar licensed comparator products have been provided. The Applicant committed to 
perform a post approval study with the objective to demonstrate the non-inferiority of Luminity versus 
SonoVue to produce left ventricular cavity opacification and complete endocardial border delineation 
during exercise stress echocardiography. 
Clinical safety 
Forty-two clinical studies with Luminity had been performed or were ongoing at the time when this 
application was prepared. 
Data from 37 completed studies performed with Luminity were available. 
In addition to the 10 echocardiography studies and 5 radiology studies used to support the claims of 
efficacy  made  in  this  application,  the  evaluation  of  safety  also  reviews  safety  data  from  22 other 
completed  studies:  3 clinical  pharmacology  studies,  15 echocardiography  studies,  and  4 radiology 
studies.   
•  Patient exposure 
Number of Subjects Exposed to Luminity in Echocardiography and Radiology Studies, by Indication 
and Category of Study 
Study Category 
Pivotal 
Supportive 
Other 
Combined 
Echocardiography 
359 
302 
897 
1558 
Radiology 
309 
94 
565 
968 
Combined 
668 
396 
1462 
2526 
In echocardiography studies, about one third of all subjects treated with Luminity received the agent 
as  bolus  injections  and  two-thirds  as  infusions.    Overall,  385  (70.4%)  of  the  547  echocardiography 
subjects who received a bolus injection of Luminity received the agent in a dosage of 10-20 μL/kg.   
In radiology studies, about two thirds of the Luminity-treated subjects received the agent as a bolus 
injection  and  the  remainder  as  an  infusion.    Pivotal  radiology  studies  DMP 115-009  and  010  were 
performed  using  bolus  injections  of  Luminity  in  209  liver  and/or  kidney  subjects,  while  the  later 
pivotal  radiology  study  DMP 115-013  investigated  the  administration  of  Luminity  as  an  IV  bolus 
and/or infusion in 100 liver subjects.   
28/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse Events in Healthy Subjects 
The  overall  incidence  of  new-onset  AEs  in  Luminity-treated  healthy  subjects  was  25.0%  (11  of 
44 subjects).    Treatment-related  new-onset  AEs  occurred  in  5  (11.4%)  of  the  44 Luminity-treated 
subjects.    The  most  frequently  reported  new-onset  AEs  in  Luminity-treated  healthy  subjects  were 
headache (3 of 44 subjects), nausea (2 subjects) and flushing (2 subjects).  Nausea and flushing were 
the most frequently reported treatment-related new-onset AEs (two subjects each). 
Adverse Events in Clinical Studies 
Of  the  1899 individuals  who  participated  in  the  clinical  trials,  1716 patients  were  treated  with 
Luminity. Based on the number of exposures, the most frequently occurring treatment-related adverse 
events (AEs) were headache (2.3%), back/renal pain (1.2%), flushing (1.1%), and nausea (1.0%). 
The undesirable effects reported with Luminity were, in general, non-serious, transient and resolved 
spontaneously without residual effects. 
The adverse reactions observed in more than 1700 adult patients in clinical trials are:  
Occurring in ≥ 0.5% of all subjects: 
Body as a Whole: 
 application site disorders, injection site reactions, back pain, chest 
pain 
Digestive System: 
Nervous System: 
nausea 
headache, dizziness, flushing 
Occurring in < 0.5% of the Luminity-dosed patients: 
Body as a Whole:  
Cardiovascular:  
Digestive System: 
Hematology: 
Musculoskeletal:  
Nervous System:  
Haemic and Lymphatic:  
Respiratory System: 
Special Senses:  
Skin:  
Urinary:  
Laboratory Abnormalities:  
fatigue, fever, hot flushes, pain, rigors and syncope 
 abnormal ECGs, bradycardia, tachycardia, palpitation, hypertension 
and hypotension 
 dyspepsia, dry mouth, tongue disorder, toothache, abdominal pain, 
diarrhoea and vomiting 
granulocytosis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, monocytosis eosinophilia 
arthralgia 
leg cramps, hypertonia, vertigo and paraesthesia 
haematoma, lymphadenopathy 
coughing, hypoxia, pharyngitis, rhinitis and dyspnoea. 
 decreased hearing, conjunctivitis, abnormal vision and taste 
perversion 
 pruritus, rash, erythematous rash, urticaria, increased sweating, dry 
skin 
albuminuria and abnormal urine 
increased bilirubin, AST/SGOT, SGPT/ALT, creatine 
phosphokinase, LDH, creatinine, glucose and non-protein nitrogen 
29/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events in Echocardiographic Studies 
All New-Onset AEs Occurring in at least 0.5% of Luminity-treated Subjects in All Echocardiography 
Studies 
Preferred Term 
All AEs 
Treatment- 
Related AEs 
Total Subjects Treated 
1558
1558 
Total Subjects with AEs 
475 (30.5%)
106 
(6.8%) 
Fatigue 
Dyspnoea 
Headache 
Chest pain 
Flushing 
Nausea 
Dizziness 
Chest discomfort 
Back pain 
Hypertension NOS 
Arthralgia 
Electrocardiogram abnormal NOS 
Hyperglycaemia NOS 
Diarrhoea NOS 
Injection site reaction NOS 
Pain NOS 
144
75
60
54
25
24
17
16
12
11
9
9
9
8
8
8
(9.2%)
(4.8%)
(3.9%)
(3.5%)
(1.6%)
(1.5%)
(1.1%)
(1.0%)
(0.8%)
(0.7%)
(0.6%)
(0.6%)
(0.6%)
(0.5%)
(0.5%)
(0.5%)
(0.2%) 
(2.2%) 
(0.2%) 
(0.7%) 
(1.0%) 
(0.5%) 
(0.5%) 
(0.1%) 
(0.2%) 
(0.2%) 
(0.1%) 
3 
0 
34 
3 
11 
15 
8 
0 
8 
0 
0 
2 
3 
3 
2 
0 
The most frequent new-onset AEs (≥1%) in Luminity-treated echocardiography subjects were fatigue, 
dyspnoea, headache, chest pain or discomfort, flushing, nausea and dizziness.  The new-onset AEs of 
fatigue, dyspnoea and chest pain were observed mainly in the studies using exercise stress testing 
In the two most frequently used bolus dosage categories (10-20 μl/kg and >20-40 μl/kg), the overall 
new-onset  AE  frequency  was  similar  (27.0%  vs  27.3%)  and  was  comparable  to  that  for  subjects  in 
echocardiography  studies  as  a  whole  (30.5%).    Only  one  of  ten  echocardiography  subjects  who 
received a Luminity bolus dosage greater than 40μl/kg experienced any new-onset AEs. 
No dose relationship could be detected for the overall frequency of treatment-related new-onset AEs in 
echocardiography  subjects  receiving  bolus  doses  of  Luminity.    The  overall  frequency  of  treatment-
related  new-onset  AEs  in  the  10-20 μl/kg  bolus  dosage  category  was  13.0%.    The  only  treatment-
related  new-onset  AEs  that  occurred  in  ≥1%  of  echocardiography  subjects  of  this  dosage  category 
were headache (5.2%), nausea (2.1%), dizziness (1.6%), flushing (1.3%), vomiting NOS (1.0%), and 
back pain (1.0%). 
Chest  pain  was  reported  by  a  total  of  37 Luminity  -treated  subjects  receiving  various  dosages  of 
Luminity as an infusion in echocardiography studies.  The AE was rated as mild or moderate in 35 of 
the 37 cases.  No relationship was observed between dose of Luminity and occurrence of chest pain, 
nor  between  dose  of  Luminity  and  intensity  of  chest  pain.    In  34  of  the  37 subjects,  the  chest  pain 
occurred shortly after the start of infusion.  However, all the cases of chest pain were rated as unlikely 
to be related to use of Luminity. 
30/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Number  (%)  of  Luminity-treated  Subjects  With  Serious  New-Onset  Adverse  Events 
Echocardiography and Radiology Studies 
in 
Category 
Echocardiography 
Radiology 
Combined 
Total Subjects Treated 
1558
968
2526 
Total Subjects with AEs 
475 (30.5%)
171 (17.7%) 
646  (25.6%)
Total Subjects with Serious AEs 
19
(1.2%)
14
(1.4%) 
33 
(1.3%)
Subjects with Serious AEs 
Leading to Death 
Subjects with Non-fatal Serious 
AEs 
3
(0.2%)
16
(1.0%)
5
9
(0.5%) 
8 
(0.3%)
(0.9%) 
25 
(1.0%)
Eight  (0.3%)  of  the  2526 subjects  treated  with  Luminity  in  echocardiography  and  radiology  studies 
died. All of the deaths occurred several days after administration of Luminity and were considered by 
the investigators as unlikely to be related to Luminity dosing.  Most of the subjects were elderly, and 
had serious cardiac illnesses and/or cancer.  One subject was a 33-year old black man with a history of 
CHF, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and heart transplant. 
Overall, 33 (1.3%) of the 2526 Luminity -treated subjects in echocardiography and radiology 
studies had serious AEs.  None of the serious AEs was classed as treatment-related.   
Exercise Stress Studies 
In  the  exercise  stress  studies,  nearly  all  new-onset  AEs  were  classed  as  stress-related.    The 
overall rate of stress-related AEs was higher in control subjects. 
Dobutamine Stress Study DMP 115-024 
The  only  new-onset  AEs  that  occurred  in  more  than  one  subject  of  a  category  and  treatment  were 
nausea,  vomiting  NOS  and  chest  pain.      The  only  new-onset  AEs  classed  as  not  stress-related  in 
Luminity-treated  subjects  were  chest  pain  (2 subjects),  feeling  jittery  (1 subject),  gait  abnormal 
(1 subject), liver function test abnormal (1 subject) and wheezing 
Cardiac 
None of the serious cardiac AEs in Luminity-treated subjects were considered to be attributable to the 
administration of Luminity.   
•  Laboratory findings 
Coagulation  was  not  assessed  in  the  pivotal  studies,  since  no  clinically  meaningful  changes  were 
observed in early clinical trials.  Subjects had routine urinalysis which revealed no clinically significant 
changes in urinalysis in Luminity-treated subjects vs placebo-treated subjects. 
Haematology and Serum Chemistry 
In  pivotal  trials  in  general,  the  mean  changes  observed  in  haematology  and  serum  chemistry 
parameters from baseline to 24 hours were similar among subjects who received either placebo, 10 to 
20 μl/kg Luminity, or >20 μl/kg Luminity.  
Vital Signs 
Overall, in the combined group of all studies, about two-thirds to three quarters of all Luminity-treated 
subjects had changes of ≤20% in BP, pulse and respiration rate from baseline 
31/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of the individual BP data for the subjects with hypertension or hypotension as an AE indicated 
that the findings reported as AEs were transient and BP values returned to normal in all cases. 
Electrocardiogram (ECG) 
None  of  the subjects  with  an  absolute increase  in  QTc  interval  ≥30 msec  from  baseline  experienced 
any  rhythm  disorders  in  association  with  the  increase  in  QTc.    No  cases  of  QTc  prolongation  were 
reported as a new-onset AE. 
ECG parameters for doses up to 10 ml/kg were monitored in subjects at multiple time points from 1 
hour to 72 hours after the first bolus injection. QTc prolongation associated cardiac rhythm changes 
were not considered to be clinically important.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Populations evaluated were demographic groups and those with medical histories of CHF or COPD.   
Gender 
The  overall  incidence  of  new-onset  AEs  was  similar  for  both  gender  groups  of  Luminity-treated 
subjects in the echocardiography studies.  
The  overall  incidence  of  new-onset  AEs  was  higher  in  Luminity-treated  women  than  in 
Luminity-treated men in the radiology studies.  
Age 
The  overall  incidence  of  new-onset  AEs  was  similar  for  both  age  groups  (<65,  >65  years  old)  of 
Luminity-treated subjects in echocardiography as well as in radiology studies.   
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
Treatment-related  new-onset  AEs  occurred  at  similar  rates  in  both  Luminity-treated  COPD  subjects 
and  Luminity-treated  subjects  without  COPD.    In  Luminity-treated  COPD  subjects,  the  only 
treatment-related new-onset AEs were one case each of palpitations, dysgeusia and flushing. 
Congestive Heart Failure 
In the placebo controlled studies the overall frequency of AEs appears to be higher in Luminity-treated 
CHF subjects than in placebo CHF subjects.  However, no difference was seen between the treatments 
with respect to the overall rate of treatment-related new-onset AEs in CHF subjects. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Drug-drug interaction studies have not been performed with Luminity.   
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  19 Luminity-treated  subjects  who  did  not  complete  the  study  due  to  AEs  comprised  
11  (0.7%)  of  1558 Luminity-treated  subjects  in  echocardiography  studies  and  8  (0.8%)  of 
968 Luminity-treated subjects in radiology studies.   
Most  of  the  AEs  resulting  in  study  non-completion  were  transient,  resolving  within  1 minute  to 
2.5 hours;  none  were  serious;  almost  all  were  considered  possibly  or  probably  related  to  use  of 
Luminity. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Data available for the time period from 1 October 2001 to 30 July 2004 indicated that, the approximate 
total number of vials of DMP 115 distributed both commercially and through sales were 338,883. 
32/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of the safety data from marketed use of Luminity presented in the period from 28 December 
2000  until  13  September  2004,  inclusive,  did  not  reveal  any  important  new  safety  issues  or  trends 
associated with Luminity therapy since the product was first marketed 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Approximately  25%  of  all  patients  who  received  Luminity  experienced  adverse  events  (fatigue, 
headache,  dyspnoea  and  chest  pain).  The  incidence  of  adverse  effects  was  both  dose  related  and 
increased by faster rates of administration. Adverse events occurred more frequently in those having 
infusions.  Chest  pain,  although  not  considered  to  be  drug  related,  did  at  least  have  a  temporal 
association to administration.  
Eight (0.3%) of the 2526 subjects treated with Luminity died. All of the deaths occurred several days 
after  administration  of  Luminity  and  were  considered  as  unlikely  to  be  related  to  Luminity  dosing.  
Most of the subjects were elderly, and had serious cardiac illnesses and/or cancer.  One subject was a 
33-year old black man with a history of CHF, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and heart transplant. 
2 additional cases were reported during post marketing. 
Overall,  33  (1.3%)  of  the  2526 Luminity-treated  had  serious  AEs.    None  of  them  was  classed  as 
treatment-related.    Chest  pain  and  ECG  abnormality  occurred  more  frequently  than  in  comparative 
groups.  However,  the  patient  population  might  lead  to  an overall higher incidence of cardiovascular 
effects. 
Important  identified  risks  are  the  administration  of  Luminity  to  patients  with  impaired  pulmonary 
function. 
Important  missing  information  is  data  of  Luminity  administration  to  a  sufficient  number  of  patients 
with COPD or CHF. 
In different studies, the mechanical index values varied. It is known that high ultrasound mechanical 
index  values  may  cause  microsphere  cavitation  or  rupture  and  lead  to  ventricular  arrhythmias. 
Additionally,  end-systolic  triggering  with  high  mechanical  indices  has  been  reported  to  cause 
ventricular arrhythmias. The safety of activated Luminity at high mechanical indices and with the use 
of end-systolic triggering has not been established. 
There is no experience of acute over-dosage with Luminity in humans. There is no specific antidote 
for  over-dosage  with  Luminty  and  treatment  of  overdose  should  consist  of  general  supportive 
measures. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
33/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Identified  risks  of 
allergic 
and 
anaphylactic 
reactions 
Potential  risk  of 
fatal outcomes 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed 
activities 
•  Actively follow-up all 
potentially severe allergic or 
anaphylactic reactions that 
occur during Luminity 
administration by using a 
specialised questionnaire to 
obtain more complete and 
consistent information for 
each report of potentially 
severe allergic or anaphylactic 
reactions, to make a more 
informed causality assessment 
and to obtain sufficient 
information for stratification 
purposes 
•  Monitor all the new reports of 
anaphylactic or allergic 
reactions.  Any significant 
changes in frequency will be 
described in the PSUR with 
appropriate modifications to 
product labeling 
•  Monitor the follow-up process 
in order to determine if there 
is need for improvement 
•  The review of potentially 
severe allergic or anaphylactic 
cases will be presented with 
the submission of each PSUR, 
annual reassessment, and 
license renewal 
• 
If at any time during the 
marketing of Luminity, the 
Company recognises a 
significant issue with 
severe allergic or 
anaphylactic reactions in 
patients receiving 
Luminity, a complete 
assessment of these reports 
will be conducted 
•  Actively follow-up all fatal 
cases that occur during 
Luminity administration by 
using a specialised 
questionnaire to obtain more 
complete and consistent 
information for each report 
with a fatal outcome and to 
gather sufficient information 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
The risks of Luminity are not of a 
particular nature or seriousness that would 
require specific risk minimisation 
measures beyond careful use of labeling 
and packaging including suitable 
warnings in the product literature 
•  Luminity should only be administered 
by trained physicians with technical 
expertise in performing and 
interpreting contrast echocardiograms 
as per Section 4.2 of the SPC 
•  Contraindication for patients with 
known hypersensitivity to the active 
substance or to any of the excipients 
in Section 4.3 of the SPC 
Listed as ADR in Section 4.8 of the SPC 
The risks of Luminity are not of a 
particular nature or seriousness that would 
require specific risk minimisation 
measures beyond careful use of labeling 
and packaging including suitable 
warnings in the product literature 
•  Luminity should only be administered 
by trained physicians with technical 
expertise in performing and 
34/38 
©EMEA 2006 
to make a more informed 
causality assessment 
interpreting contrast echocardiograms 
as per Section 4.2 of the SPC 
•  Monitor all the new reports of 
•  Contraindication for patients with 
known hypersensitivity to the active 
substance or to any of the excipients 
in Section 4.3 of the SPC 
Warnings in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
fatal outcomes. Any 
significant changes in 
frequency will be described in 
the PSUR with appropriate 
modifications to product 
labeling. 
•  Monitor the follow-up process 
in order to determine if there 
is need for improvement 
•  The review of fatal outcomes 
will be presented with the 
submission of each PSUR, 
annual reassessment, and 
license renewal 
• 
If at any time during the 
marketing of Luminity, the 
Company recognises a 
significant issue with fatal 
outcomes in patients receiving 
Luminity, a complete 
assessment of these reports 
will be conducted 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence,  that  Luminity  is  an 
effective  contrast  agent  to  use  in  conjunction  with  ultrasound  in  order  to  aid  in  the  diagnosis  and 
assessment of myocardial perfusion defects. A correlation demonstrated increased acoustic power and 
increased pressure shortens the persistence of microbubbles in circulation.  
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies were performed.  
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, the beagle dog was the most relevant species for non-clinical 
efficacy  and  safety  studies  because  of  the  established  use  of  dogs  in  pulmonary  expiration  studies.  
PFP  expired  through  the  lungs  is  unchanged.  There  is  no  indication  of  any  long-term  retention  or 
potential  for  accumulation  of  the  non-endogenous  components.  The  rapid  elimination  of  PFP  in  the 
expired air is consistent with the rapid disappearance of ultrasound contrast after activated Luminity 
administration.   
35/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  the  preclinical  toxicology  programme  revealed  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on 
conventional  studies  of  genotoxicity,  fertility,  embryo/foetal  development,  parturition  or  post-natal 
development, and local tolerance. 
The lack of carcinogenicity studies is considered justified, since genotoxicity studies did not indicate 
potential of mutagenicity or clastogenicity [5].  
Efficacy 
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  of  Luminity  for  the  use  as  an  ultrasound  contrast-enhancing  agent  in 
echocardiography is based on 5 pivotal and 7 supportive studies. 
The five pivotal studies support the use of Luminity for contrast-enhanced echocardiographic imaging 
of  cardiac  structure  (ventricular  chambers  and  endocardial  borders)  using  fundamental  imaging    by 
demonstrating a significant benefit of contrast-enhanced ultrasound to unenhanced ultrasound.   
Data  from  two  Phase  2 studies  (DMP 115-018  and  022)  support  the  use  of  Luminity  in  imaging 
ventricular  chambers  and  endocardial  border  delineation  during  stress/rest  echocardiography  using 
non-linear imaging in subjects with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD).  
In  addition  data  presented  during  the  assessment  from  two  further  studies  (DMP 115-401  and  -410) 
support  the  claimed  indication  using non-linear  ultrasound  technique.  DMP  115-410  shows,  that  the 
overall  proportions  of  visualised  cardiac  segments  were  significantly  higher  for  Luminity-enhanced 
echocardiography 
that 
significantly  more  images  were  diagnostic  following  enhancement,  confidence  was  significantly 
greater with enhancement and that less additional diagnostic testing was requested following contrast 
enhanced imaging. 
than  for  unenhanced  echocardiography.  DMP  115-401  demonstrates, 
Safety 
The incidence of adverse effects (25% of all treated patients) was both dose related and increased by 
faster rates of administration. Adverse events occurred more frequently in those having infusions.  
All  of  the  deaths  8/2526  (0.3%)  occurred  several  days  after  administration  of  Luminity  and  were 
considered as unlikely to be related to Luminity dosing.  Most of the subjects were elderly, and had 
serious cardiac illnesses and/or cancer.  
33  of  the  2526 Luminity-treated  patients  (1.3%)  had  serious  AEs.    None  of  them  was  classed  as 
treatment-related.    Chest  pain  and  ECG  abnormality  occurred  more  frequently  than  in  comparative 
groups.  
Important  identified  risks  are  the  administration  of  Luminity  to  patients  with  impaired  pulmonary 
function. 
Important missing information is data of Luminity administration to patients with COPD or CCF. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
The applicant provided an acceptable justification for not performing a user consultation testing of the 
package leaflet. 
36/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk assessment 
Overall  the  administration  of  Luminity  is  safe.  For  the  echocardiography  Indication,  the  lack  of 
comparator  studies  can  be  dealt  with  by  considering  the  available  indirect  comparisons,  and  the 
applicant  undertaking  a  post  approval  study  commitment  to  perform  a  study  to  make  a  direct 
comparison between Luminity and SonoVue.  
Despite the fact that studies DMP 115-018 and DMP 115-022 failed primary efficacy analysis based 
on the comparison of the ability of at least two blinded readers to detect exercise stress-induced wall 
motion abnormalities from echocardiography using harmonic imaging techniques and classification of 
CAD  based  on  angiographic  findings,  the  study  was  successful  in  an  analysis  of  wall  segment 
evaluability, number of  evaluable segments per subject and by per segment analysis, which was not 
planned in the protocol. 
The  results  of  additional  studies  such  as  DMP  115-410  using  harmonic  imaging  offer  supportive 
information  that  the  overall  proportions  of  visualised  cardiac  segments  were  significantly  higher  for 
Luminity-enhanced echocardiography than for unenhanced echocardiography and the results of DMP 
115-410  seem  to  support  an  increase  in  the  proportion  of  visualised  segments  following  contrast 
administration. 
The  results  of  DMP  115-401  suggest  that  significantly  more  images  were  diagnostic  following 
enhancement,  confidence  was  significantly  greater  with  enhancement  and  that  less  additional 
diagnostic testing was requested following contrast enhanced imaging. 
Taking the safe use and the evidence of efficacy submitted into account, the risk-benefit of Luminity 
in the claimed echocardiography indication is positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit-risk balance of Luminity in the following approved indication; 
This  medicinal  product  is  for  diagnostic  use  only.  Luminity  is  an  ultrasound  contrast-
enhancing agent for use in patients in whom non-contrast echocardiography was  suboptimal 
(suboptimal is considered to indicate that at least two of six segments in the 4- or 2-chamber 
view  of  the  ventricular  border  were  not  evaluable)  and  who  have  suspected  or  established 
coronary artery disease, to provide opacification of cardiac chambers and improvement of left 
ventricular endocardial border delineation at both rest and stress. 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
37/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Metzger-Rose C, Krupinski EA, Wright WH, Baker MR, McCreery TP, Barrette TR, Unger 
EC: Ultrasonographic detection of testicular ischemia in a canine model using 
phospholipid coated microbubbles (MRX-115). J Ultrasound Med 1997, 16(5):317-324; 
quiz 325-316. 
Maruyama H, Matsutani S, Sato G, Nakano Y, Mitsuhashi O, Yoshikawa M, Ebara M, Saisho 
H, Ohto M: Enhanced color flow images in small hepatocellular carcinoma. Abdom 
Imaging 2000, 25(2):164-171. 
Boyden PA, Dresdner KP, Jr.: Electrogenic Na(+)-K+ pump in Purkinje myocytes isolated 
from control noninfarcted and infarcted hearts. Am J Physiol 1990, 258(3 Pt 2):H766-772. 
Hutter JC, Luu HM, Mehlhaff PM, Killam AL, Dittrich HC: Physiologically based 
pharmacokinetic model for fluorocarbon elimination after the administration of an 
octafluoropropane-albumin microsphere sonographic contrast agent. J Ultrasound Med 
1999, 18(1):1-11. 
EMEA: ICH Topic S1B Carcinogenicity: Testing for Carcinogenicity of Pharmaceuticals. 
1998:http://www.emea.eu.int/pdfs/human/ich/029995en.pdf. 
38/38 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
