EMA/447579/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000654 
EPAR summary for the public 
Luminity 
perflutren-containing lipid microspheres 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Luminity. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Luminity. 
What is Luminity? 
Luminity is a solution for injection or infusion (drip) into a vein that contains microspheres (tiny 
bubbles) of perflutren gas as the active substance. 
What is Luminity used for? 
Luminity is for diagnostic use only. It is a contrast agent (a medicine that helps obtain better images of 
organs and tissues during a scan). 
Luminity is used in adults to obtain a clearer image of the chambers of the heart, especially of the left 
ventricle, during echocardiography (a diagnostic test where an image of the heart is obtained using 
ultrasound). Luminity is used in patients with suspected or confirmed coronary artery disease 
(obstruction of the blood vessels supplying the heart muscle), when the image obtained without a 
contrast agent is not good enough. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Luminity used? 
Luminity should only be given by doctors trained in performing and reading images obtained with 
contrast echocardiography, in hospitals or clinics where appropriate resuscitation equipment is 
available in case of heart or lung problems or allergic reactions. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Before use, Luminity must be activated by shaking it using a mechanical device called Vialmix, which is 
supplied to doctors who need to prepare the medicine. This ensures that the medicine is shaken in the 
correct way and for long enough to make up a ‘dispersion’ of microspheres of perflutren gas of the 
right size to get a good quality image. This is then given into a vein either as a ‘bolus’ injection (given 
all at once) or as an infusion after being diluted. The way Luminity is given and the dose depend on the 
technique being used for the echocardiography. 
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Luminity work? 
When Luminity is injected, it travels in the veins to the heart. During echocardiography, the perflutren 
microspheres in Luminity reflect ultrasound waves differently from the surrounding tissues. This helps 
to obtain a better contrast between the area where the gas bubbles are (such as the heart chambers) 
and the surrounding tissue. The gas is then cleared through the lungs. 
How has Luminity been studied? 
There have been five main studies of Luminity, involving a total of 401 patients. Three studies looked 
at its ability to enhance the image of the left ventricle, comparing the echocardiography scan before 
and after administration of Luminity. In two of these studies, Luminity was compared with placebo (a 
dummy treatment). The last two studies were set up primarily to look at the ability of Luminity to 
improve the accuracy of the measurement of the ejection fraction (the percentage of the blood volume 
that is pumped out of the heart in one beat). These studies also looked at left ventricle image 
enhancement. 
What benefit has Luminity shown during the studies? 
Luminity was effective in enhancing the image of the left ventricle, and it was more effective than 
placebo in the studies where Luminity and placebo were compared. As all five original studies were 
carried out with a technique known as ‘fundamental’ ultrasound imaging, the company also presented 
the results of some studies to show that the results seen using fundamental imaging could also be 
obtained when using the imaging techniques known as ‘harmonic’ and ‘non linear’. 
What is the risk associated with Luminity? 
The most common side effects with Luminity (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are headache 
and flushing (reddening of the skin). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Luminity, 
see the package leaflet. 
Why has Luminity been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Luminity’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Luminity? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Luminity have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Luminity  
EMA/447579/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Luminity 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Luminity on 20 September 2006.  
The full EPAR for Luminity can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Luminity, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist 
This summary was last updated in 06-2016. 
Luminity  
EMA/447579/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
