25 May 2012 
EMA/303398/2012 
Assessment report for Luminity 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
INN: Perflutren 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/654/A-20/0013 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 4 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) was made aware on 10 November 2011 of the cessation of 
manufacture at Ben Venue Laboratories as a result of findings by the Supervisory Authorities of United 
Kingdom (MHRA) and France (AFSSAPS) and by US FDA inspectors during a Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) inspection of Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. (BVL) manufacturing site conducted jointly 
from 6 to 11 November 2011. This cessation included manufacturing operations in the three 
operational parts of the facility, North Complex, South Complex and Phase IV. 
This inspection was a follow-up to a previous inspection conducted in March 2011 that had been 
triggered by the European Medicines Agency as part of the increased surveillance of this site. During 
the November 2011 inspection, a critical finding was identified with regard to deficiencies in the quality 
oversight of manufacturing and quality operations. In particular the inspectors pointed out as critical 
that since the last inspection there was an elevated risk of lack of sterility in the batches manufactured 
at BVL. The key issues identified in the North facility concerned recent water leaks in the aseptic core 
and preparation area, HEPA filter failures, media growth, environmental monitoring and facility 
maintenance. The inspectors also identified the presence of particulate contamination potentially 
affecting both the North and South facilities. The investigation performed by BVL did not provide 
reassurance concerning the root cause and the nature of the particles. Taken together, all the 
deficiencies observed in the oversight of manufacturing and quality operations raise questions on the 
overall quality assurance system at BVL, and this is considered to have a potential detrimental impact 
on the quality and safety of products manufactured and released by the site. 
On 10 November 2011, Ben Venue Laboratories announced the cessation of production pending further 
investigation and resolution of issues related to equipment re-qualification and maintenance identified 
by the inspection team. This cessation included manufacturing operations in the three operational parts 
of the facility, North Complex, South Complex and Phase IV, that are listed as manufacturing sites for 
14 centrally approved products: Angiox, Busilvex, Caelyx, Cayston, Ceplene, Ecalta, Luminity, Mepact, 
Soliris, Torisel, Velcade, Vibativ, Vidaza, and Vistide. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 17 November 2011 to assess the 
above concerns and to give its opinion on measures necessary to ensure the safe and effective use of 
those products, and on whether the marketing authorisations for these products should be maintained, 
varied, suspended or withdrawn. Furthermore the Commission asked the CHMP to consider if there was 
a need to take provisional measures, notably a withdrawal of medicinal products (or certain batches 
thereof) from the market. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Luminity was granted a marketing authorisation in the EU on 20 September 2006. The product is an 
ultrasound contrast-enhancing agent for diagnostic use in adult patients with suspected or established 
coronary artery disease.  
Luminity is presented as glass vials containing 1.5 ml of a solution for intravenous injection or infusion. 
The product is subjected to a non-pharmacopoeial sterilisation cycle (128 ºC ± 1.0 ºC for 6 minutes). 
Luminity has only one approved manufacturing site, the BVL South Complex. 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deficiencies observed in the oversight of manufacturing and quality operations at BVL raise questions 
on the overall quality assurance system, which can potentially have a detrimental impact on the quality 
and safety of products manufactured and released by the site.  
Medicinal products for intravenous use are required to be sterile by definition, and this is built into the 
manufacturing process. In case there is contamination, this might not be uniform throughout the 
batch, so random sampling and testing of the final products will not detect contamination with absolute 
certainty, and compliance with the tests for sterility cannot certify absolute absence of microbial 
contamination. Greater assurance of sterility invariably originates from reliable stringent manufacturing 
procedures which are in strict compliance with GMP. 
There is only one batch of Luminity manufactured at the BVL site and released by the Qualified Person 
within expiry date. However, this batch was placed in quarantine at the initiative of the MAH prior to 
November 2011, and is not currently available for patients in the EU. 
In light of the potential risk of contamination of the batch manufactured at the BVL site with a potential 
impact on the safety of the product, and taking account of the fact that Luminity was not available to 
patients in the EU, the CHMP recommended on 5 December 2011 that the batch manufactured at the 
BVL site be formally recalled.  
On 13 January 2012, the supervisory authority issued a revised GMP compliance certificate for BVL (UK 
GMP 6105 Insp GMP/IMP 6105/16949-0018) affecting the North, South and Phase IV facilities. 
According to this certificate, the BVL site is not meeting the GMP requirements to allow the 
manufacture of Luminity. 
On the basis of the above, and taking into account that Luminity has no alternative manufacturing site 
authorised:  
- The CHMP confirms that the provisional measures adopted in December 2011 were adequate and 
necessary to address the concerns raised by batches manufactured in a facility with GMP deficiencies 
and hence to protect public health, 
- The CHMP considers that the particulars and documents provided for in Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC which need to be submitted in accordance with Annex I of the said Directive are incorrect,  
- In addition the CHMP considers that the requirements laid down in article 41 b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC are no longer met. 
As a consequence, the CHMP recommends the suspension of the marketing authorisation for Luminity 
in accordance with articles 116, second paragraph and 118 of the said Directive. 
In order to lift the suspension of the marketing authorisation, the MAH shall present evidence to 
confirm that there is, within the marketing authorisation dossier for Luminity, an authorised 
manufacturing site which fulfils the requirements set out in Article 41 of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
3.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Having  considered  the  overall  submitted  data  provided  by  the  MAH  in  writing,  as  well  as  the 
documentation provided by the inspectors,  
Whereas: 
• 
The Ben Venue Laboratories site is not in compliance with EU GMP for the manufacture of Luminity, 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  All the batches of Luminity manufactured at BVL have been recalled, 
• 
There is no alternative manufacturing site authorised within the Luminity marketing authorisation 
dossier, 
the CHMP considers that the particulars and documents provided for in Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC which need to be submitted in accordance with Annex I of the said Directive are incorrect 
and that the requirements laid down in article 41b) of Directive 2001/83/EC are no longer met. The 
Committee therefore recommends the suspension of the marketing authorisation for Luminity in 
accordance with Articles 116, second paragraph  and 118 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The conditions for lifting of the suspension are laid down in the Annex. 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex  
CONDITIONS FOR LIFTING THE SUSPENSION 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the suspension to be lifted, the Marketing Authorisation Holder for Luminity shall provide the CHMP 
with the following: 
Evidence to confirm that there is, within the marketing authorisation dossier for Luminity, an 
authorised manufacturing site which fulfils the requirements set out in Article 41 of Directive 
2001/83/EC 
Assessment report for Luminity  
EMA/303398/2012  
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
