European Medicines Agency 
London, 7 January 2010 
Doc. Ref:EMA/105752/2010   
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
LUMIGAN 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Bimatoprost 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/391/X/0026 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu. http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Lumigan has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the European Union since 8 March 2002 and is 
already available as 0.3 mg/ml eye drops, solution. This line extension concerns the addition of a new 
strength: Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml eye drops, solution  
The indication applied for is the same as for the currently authorised Lumigan presentations: reduction 
of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  chronic  open-angle  glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension  (as 
monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers). 
The  new  strength,  Lumigan  0.1  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution  was  developed  as  an  alternative  to  the 
currently  authorised  Lumigan  0.3  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution.  Compared  with  the  current  authorised 
strength which contains 0.3 mg/ml bimatoprost and 50 ppm benzalkonium chloride, the new strength 
contains a third of the concentration of bimatoprost (0.1 mg/ml) and 200 ppm benzalkonium chloride. 
The higher concentration of benzalkonium chloride increases the ocular absorption of bimatoprost thus 
allowing  for  a  lower  concentration  of  bimatoprost  to  be  administered  (0.1  mg/ml).  This  new 
formulation, with a reduced concentration of bimatoprost, achieves comparable IOP-lowering efficacy 
to the current authorised strength and an improved overall safety profile. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  medicinal  product  Lumigan  0.1  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution  is  presented  as  a  sterile,  isotonic, 
colourless  to  slightly  yellow  solution.  Each  ml  of  solution  contains  0.1  mg  of  the  active  substance 
bimatoprost.  The  other  ingredients  include:  benzalkonium  chloride,  sodium  chloride,  sodium 
phosphate  dibasic  heptahydrate,  citric  acid  monohydrate,  hydrochloric  acid  or  sodium  hydroxide  (to 
adjust pH) and purified water. Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml eye drops is a multidose eye drop formulation. 
The solution is supplied in white opaque low density polyethylene bottles with polystyrene screw cap. 
Each bottle has a fill volume of 3 ml. Two pack sizes are available: cartons containing 1 or 3 bottles of 
3 ml. 
Active Substance  
The  active  substance,  bimatoprost,  is  a  known  active  substance  although  there  is  no  monograph  for 
bimatoprost  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia.  The  active  substance  used  in  the  manufacturing  of 
Lumigan  0.1  mg/ml  eye  drops  is  identical  to  the  one  used  in  the  manufacturing  of  the  currently 
authorized  presentations:  Lumigan  0.3  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution  (EU/1/02/205/001-002).  Therefore 
the  applicant  referred  to  the  active  substance  information  which  was  submitted  for  the  already 
authorised presentation and confirmed that no changes have been made to the active substance. 
With  this  line  extension  Allergan,  the  MAH  for  Lumigan  re-submitted  only  the  sections  general 
information,  manufacture,  specification  and  batch  analysis  to  facilitate  the  assessors’  review.  As  no 
changes have been made to the information in these sections, this is considered acceptable. 
Drug Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  goal  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  develop  a  lower  strength  than  the  currently 
authorised Lumigan 0.3 mg/ml eye drops, solution with an improved safety profile while maintaining 
the  intra-ocular  pressure  lowering  efficacy.  A  reduced  exposure  of  the  ocular  surface  to  the  active 
substance bimatoprost would yield superior safety and fewer ocular adverse events.  
The  developed  formulation  is  the  same  as  the  currently  authorised  presentations,  except  for  a  lower 
bimatoprost  concentration,  increased  benzalkonium  chloride  concentration,  and  decreased  sodium 
chloride for isotonicity. The concentrations of the other excipients are the same as those used in the 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
already  approved  formulation  of  Lumigan.  All  excipients  are  both  USP/NF  and  Ph  Eur  compendial 
grade  materials  where  relevant  pharmacopoeial  monographs  exist.  Dibasic  sodium  phosphate 
heptahydrate has no Ph Eur compendial monograph and therefore the USP compendial monograph is 
used. 
Compatibility with regard to excipients was established during drug product development of Lumigan 
0.3mg/ml  eye  drop  solution.  As  the  same  excipients  are  used,  this  justifies  that  no  new  data  are 
presented. 
Development studies were conducted to evaluate the ocular absorption of bimatoprost, stability of the 
formulation, compatibility with the container closure system, antimicrobial preservative effectiveness, 
and  ocular  tolerability.  The  study  data  concluded  that  0.01%  bimatoprost/200  ppm  benzalkonium 
chloride ophthalmic solution is stable and well tolerated by the eyes. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
No materials of animal and/or human origin are used in the medicinal product manufacturing process. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
One manufacturer is involved in the manufacturing of the finished product. The manufacturing process 
of the drug product is essentially the same as for the already authorised Lumigan eye drops and has 
been adequately described and presented in a flow chart. The used in-process controls are considered 
satisfactorily to guarantee an appropriate quality of the drug product. The critical manufacturing steps 
are identified and were validated.  
Process validation data has been submitted on three batches. All batches meet the pre-defined finished 
product specifications and the data demonstrate reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
•  Product Specification 
Adequate  finished  product  specifications  have  been  set  for  this  new  presentation.  The  specifications 
include  appropriate  tests  and  acceptance  criteria  for  physical  appearance  (clarity  and  colour),  assay 
(bimatoprost  and  benzalkonium  chloride),  impurities,  pH,  osmolality,  sterility,  antimicrobial 
preservative effectiveness and particulate matter (visual). All analytical procedures used for testing the 
drug product have been properly described and all relevant methods have been satisfactorily validated 
in  accordance  with  the  EU/ICH  Validation  Guidelines.  Certificates  of  analysis  and  adequate  batch 
analysis data have been provided. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  studies  include  long  term  and  accelerated  studies,  a  study  under  freeze/thaw  cycling 
conditions and a photostability study. Finished product batches have been stored at 25ºC/40% RH (up 
to  18  months),  at  30°C/65%  RH  (up  to  18  months)  and  at  40ºC/25%  RH  (up  to  6  months)  in  the 
proposed  market  packaging.  Parameters  investigated  were:  assay  bimatoprost,  related  substances, 
assay  BAK,  physical  appearance,  pH,  osmolality,  sterility,  antimicrobial  preservative  effectiveness, 
particulate matter, container leachables and water loss. The studies have been performed in accordance 
with the relevant stability testing guidelines.  
The  stability  data  were  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  show  satisfactory 
stability. Based on the stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the 
SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance used in the manufacture of Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml eye drops, solution is exactly the 
same as for the already authorized presentations.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  new  formulation  and  excipients  used  are  appropriate  and  well 
controlled. Appropriate finished product specifications have been set.  
Batch analysis results show that the medicinal product can be reproducibility manufactured, compliant 
with  the  finished  product  specifications,  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uniform performance in clinic. Stability data show that the medicinal product is stable until the end of 
the proposed shelf life. At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues. 
2.1Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation on Quality aspects 
The  new  formulation  has  been  adequately  described.  The  excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  the 
product and the manufacturing process selected are appropriate. The results of the tests indicate that 
the  drug  product  can  be  reproducibility  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues having an impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
3.  Non clinical aspects  
Pharmacology  
Bimatoprost is a synthetic prostamide, structurally analogue to prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α). It is made 
by replacement of the carboxylic acid group of PGF2α with an electrochemically neutral substituent (an 
amide group). This is a critical change, since the carboxylic acid group is essential for interaction of 
PGF2α with its target protein, termed the FP receptor. Bimatoprost and its close congeners appear to 
mimic  the  activity  of  a  local  hormone,  prostamide  F2α  (PGF2α  1-ethanolamide),  a  substance  that  is 
biosynthetically derived from anandamide by a pathway that involves COX-2, but not COX-1. 
The pharmacology of bimatoprost was extensively characterised by in vitro functional and radioligand 
binding  studies.  Results  show  an  absence  of  meaningful  interaction  for  bimatoprost  with  any  of  the 
known prostanoid receptors. In addition, bimatoprost and its congener have no meaningful interaction 
with  cannabinoid  receptors  and  over  100  drug  receptor  targets,  ion  channels,  and  transporters. 
Molecular, biological and pharmacological studies indicate that the bimatoprost-sensitive receptors are 
novel and may be classified as a new subtype. 
Bimatoprost  produced  dose-related  decreases  in  IOP  of  ocular  normotensive  dogs  that  were  given 
doses  ranging  from  0.001%  to  0.1%,  once-daily  for  5  days.  In  laser-induced  ocular  hypertensive 
cynomolgus monkeys, bimatoprost produced substantial decreases in IOP that ranged from -7 mm Hg 
to -16 mm Hg at the 0.001%, 0.01%, 0.03% and 0.1% single doses studied. 
The  mechanism  of  action  with  respect  to  lowering  IOP  has  been  studied  in  beagle  dogs  and 
cynomolgus monkeys. Bimatoprost 0.1% did not alter aqueous humour inflow in monkeys, according 
to fluorophotometric studies. Studies on total outflow facility in dogs and monkeys revealed no effect 
for  bimatoprost  on  total  outflow  facility.  In  monkeys,  direct  measurement  of  uveoscleral  outflow 
showed  an  increased  uveoscleral  outflow  to  bimatoprost.  New  evidence  for  the  increases  in 
uveoscleral  and  trabecular  outflow  were  provided  by  results  of  organised  remodelling  of  the 
uveoscleral  outflow  routes  and  morphological  changes  in  the  trabecular  meshwork  of  cynomolgus 
monkeys following a long-term 1-year treatment with bimatoprost.   
Bimatoprost appeared to be well-tolerated in animals with ocular surface hyperaemia as the only side 
effect  observed  in  short-term  pharmacological  studies.  Results  of  pharmacological  and  extensive 
safety  evaluation  studies  suggest  that  the  conjunctival  hyperaemia  associated  with  bimatoprost 
treatment results from non-inflammatory, pharmacologically based vasodilatation.   
The  pharmacology  of  bimatoprost  does  not  appear  to  involve  receptors  associated  with  any  known 
local hormone or neurotransmitter and, therefore, untoward interaction with other drugs is unlikely. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Study  reports  detailing  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  bimatoprost  and  its 
metabolite,  AGN 191522,  after  administration  of  bimatoprost  have  been  submitted  previously  in 
Lumigan.  In  summary,  bimatoprost  was  rapidly  absorbed  and  well  distributed  in  the  rabbit  and 
monkey  eyes  following  ocular  administration.  Bimatoprost  demonstrated  good  in  vitro  penetration 
across human cornea and sclera. Systemic exposure after ocular dosing was low in the rabbit, monkey, 
and  man.  AGN 191522  was  not  detected  in  humans  after  ocular  dosing,  due  to  the  low  systemic 
4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure  of  the  parent.  Bimatoprost  was  only  minimally  metabolised  in  the  ocular  tissues  of  both 
monkeys  and  humans,  but  was  extensively  metabolised  in  rabbit  ocular  tissues.  After  systemic 
administration, bimatoprost was extensively metabolised to polar metabolites in all the species tested. 
Both  urinary  and  faecal  routes  are  important  pathways  for  elimination  of  bimatoprost  and  its 
metabolites in rats and monkeys.  
To  support  the  registration  of  the  0.01%  bimatoprost/200 ppm  benzalkonium  chloride  (BAK) 
ophthalmic  solution,  six  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  to  assess  the  ocular  absorption  of 
bimatoprost using primary cultures of rabbit cornea epithelia in vitro, and ocular absorption in NZW 
and DB rabbits in vivo. In addition, systemic drug exposure was assessed in one single dose study and 
two repeated dose toxicokinetics studies from toxicology studies.  
Due to the cytotoxic properties of BAK, it is, from a safety point of view, preferable to minimise its 
presence in ophthalmic preparations. As part of the January 09 LoOI, the MAH was requested by the 
CHMP to substantiate why similar efficacy could not be obtained with a formulation containing lower 
BAK  concentration. In order to demonstrate that  maximal ocular  bimatoprost absorption is obtained 
with  a  BAK  concentration  of  200  ppm,  the  MAH  submitted  preliminary  results  from  a  newly 
conducted ocular absorption study (PK-09-063). In this study, female rabbits received a single 28 µL 
eyedrop  of  0.01%  bimatoprost  containing  varying  concentrations  (50,  100,  150,  200,  300  ppm)  of 
BAK into both eyes and aqueous humor samples were collected (n = 2-4 animals with 4-8 eyes per 
time point) at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 hours post-dose. The results confirm that maximal bimatoprost 
ocular absorption is obtained with 200 ppm BAK.  
From the preliminary analysis of the newly conducted study, it appears that aqueous humour Cmax for 
the  major  bimatoprost  metabolite  AGN-191522  occurs  2  hours  following  ocular  administration  of 
0.01%  bimatoprost/200  ppm  BAK.  In  comparison,  AGN-191522  Tmax  is  1  hour  following  Lumigan 
administration  to  rabbits.  In  the  originally  submitted  reports,  the  aqueous  humour  concentration  of 
AGN-191522  was  only  evaluated  1  hour  following  ocular  administration  of  Lumigan  and  0.01% 
bimatoprost/200  ppm  BAK,  hence  this  finding  may  explain  why  lower  AGN-191522  concentrations 
were obtained with 0.01% bimatoprost/200 ppm BAK relative to Lumigan (study PK-06-108). 
The CHMP considered that the MAH has substantiated that maximal bimatoprost ocular absorption is 
obtained  in  rabbits  with  200  ppm  BAK  relative  to  50,  100,  150,  and  300  ppm.  The  issue  was 
considered resolved. However, the MAH is requested to submit the full report for study PK-09-063 for 
review upon its completion. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicity  profile  of  bimatoprost  has  been  well  characterised  during  studies  conducted  to  support 
registration of Lumigan. Evaluations include single-dose toxicity, repeated-dose toxicity, reproductive 
toxicity,  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity,  and  antigenicity.  Extensive  ocular  and  systemic  toxicological 
studies  have  been  conducted  in  a  number  of  animal  species  to  establish  the  preclinical  safety  of 
Lumigan.  
Additional  repeat-dose  ocular  toxicity  studies  of  1-month  and  6-month  duration  were  conducted  in 
NZW  and  DB rabbits,  respectively,  to  support  registration  of  0.01% bimatoprost/200 ppm BAK 
ophthalmic solution. The doses administered were similar to that administered clinically in humans.  
In the 1-month ocular toxicity study, conjunctival congestion, mostly mild, was transiently observed 
with  all  formulations  containing  200 ppm  BAK  including  the  placebo,  whereas  conjunctival 
congestion was not observed in untreated eyes or rabbits given Lumigan (50 ppm BAK). In addition, 
all  the  formulations  contained  200  ppm  BAK  resulted  in  minimal  to  mild  corneal  epithelial 
degeneration  and  regeneration  and/or  corneal  stromal  oedema  in  most  treated  eyes.  Moreover,  a 
minimal  goblet  cell  loss  was  observed  in  the  conjunctival  mucosa.  It  appears  that  BAK-induced 
corneal epithelial alterations is dose-dependent. 
On the other hand, no treatment-related findings were made in a 6-month ocular repeat-dose toxicity 
study  comparing  two  different  concentrations  of  bimatoprost  (0.01%  and  0.0125%)  both  formulated 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with 200 ppm BAK. The MAH justified the lack of using Lumigan (50 ppm BAK) as comparator due 
to the absence of findings for Lumigan in a previous 6-month ocular safety study. 
A  large  number  of  scientific  articles  report  on  the  ocular  toxicity  of  BAK  in  various  non-clinical 
models. Hence, based on non-clinical data, it cannot be excluded that the new 0.01% bimatoprost/200 
ppm BAK formulation may adversely affect the human eye. However it should be borne in mind that 
the  rabbit  appears  to  be  more  sensitive  towards  ocular  toxicants  than  humans,  e.g.,  rabbits  have  a 
greatly reduced blinking rate compared to humans and BAK appears to induce a higher degree of tight 
junction  disruption  in  rabbits  than  in  humans.  On  the  other  hand,  epidemiological  as  well  as  small 
clinical studies have indicated that long-term treatment with BAK preserved eye drops induces ocular 
changes.  
The antigenicity of bimatoprost has been evaluated previously to support registration of Lumigan.  
Bimatoprost does not appear to have a phototoxic potential.  
Based on the data submitted by the MAH, the use of Lumigan 0.01% is unlikely to represent a risk for 
the environment when used in the proposed indication and recommended dose.  
4.  Clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics 
Bimatoprost  penetrates  the  human  cornea  and  sclera  well  in  vitro.  After  ocular  administration,  the 
systemic exposure of bimatoprost is very low, with no accumulation over time. After once daily ocular 
administration  of  one  drop  of  0.03%  bimatoprost  to  both  eyes  for  two  weeks,  blood  concentrations 
peaked within 10 minutes after dosing and declined to below the lower limit of detection (0.025ng/ml) 
within  1.5  hours  after  dosing.  Mean  Cmax  and  AUC  0-24hrs  values  were  similar  on  days  7  and  14  at 
approximately 0.08ng/ml  and  0.09 ng·hr/ml  respectively,  indicating  that  a  steady  drug  concentration 
was reached during the first week of ocular dosing. 
Bimatoprost  is  moderately  distributed  into  body  tissues  and  the  systemic  volume  of  distribution  in 
humans at steady-state was 0.67 l/kg. In human blood, bimatoprost resides mainly in the plasma. The 
plasma protein binding of bimatoprost is approximately 88%. 
Bimatoprost  is  the  major  circulating  species  in  the  blood  once  it  reaches  the  systemic  circulation 
following ocular dosing. Bimatoprost then undergoes oxidation, N-deethylation and glucuronidation to 
form a variety of metabolites. 
Bimatoprost  is  eliminated  primarily  by  renal  excretion.  Up  to  67%  of  an  intravenous  dose 
administered  to  healthy  volunteers  was  excreted  in  the  urine,  25%  of  the  dose  was  excreted  via  the 
faeces.  The  elimination  half-life,  determined  after  intravenous  administration,  was  approximately  45 
minutes; the total blood clearance was 1.5 l/hr/kg. 
No new clinical studies have been conducted to further explore the pharmacokinetics of bimatoprost. 
Data  submitted  have  been  the  clinical  pharmacokinetics  of  bimatoprost  0.03%  which  had  been 
previously assessed for the Lumigan application. This is considered acceptable as Lumigan has been 
marketed for 7 years and the pharmacokinetic profile of the active substance is well known. Moreover, 
the content of bimatoprost has been decreased to one third and thus, it is expected that the systemic 
drug exposure will not be increased with the proposed new strength. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new phamacodynamic studies have been submitted. 
Bimatoprost is a synthetic analogue of prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α).  Its pharmacology is conferred by 
replacement  of  the  carboxylic  acid  group  of  PGF2α  with  an  ionically  neutral  substituent.    Since  the 
carboxylic  acid  group  is  critical  for  interaction  with  PGF2α  -sensitive  FP  receptors,  bimatoprost 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exhibits no meaningful pharmacological activity at FP receptors.  Extensive studies have shown that 
bimatoprost has no meaningful pharmacological activity at all other known prostaglandin receptors.  
Bimatoprost  appears  to  mimic  the  activity  of  a  newly discovered,  naturally  occurring  substance  that 
has  been  termed  prostamide  F2α  (PGF2α 1-ethanolamide).  Prostamide  F2α  is  biosynthetically  derived 
from anandamide by a pathway that involves COX-2, but not COX-1.  This novel pathway, named the 
prostamide  pathway,  leads  to  the  biosynthesis  of  novel  lipid  amides  that  lower  intraocular  pressure. 
The  prostamide  pathway  may  be  viewed  as  running  parallel  to  the  arachidonic  acid  cascade.  Both 
pathways  lead  to  the  formation  of  naturally  occurring  ocular  hypotensive  products,  prostamides  and 
prostaglandins, respectively. 
The  lack  of  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  are  justified  by  the  fact  that  the  pharmacology  of 
bimatoprost is well characterised. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  following  studies  were  conducted.  It  should  be  noted  that  studies  192024-030  (pilot  study), 
192024-031  (pivotal)  and  192024-035  (supportive)  investigate  the  sought  bimatoprost  0.01  % 
formulation with 200 ppm BAK. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With the Response to the CHMP D 120 LoQ the MAH submitted study 192024-035, a double masked 
comparison of bimatoprost 0.01 % versus vehicle (see below). 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
192024-020 
This  was  a  randomised,  double-masked,  6-armed  multi-centre  comparison  of  several  concentrations 
and  dosing  regimen  of  bimatoprost  to  Lumigan  and  timolol  eye  drops  in  patients  with  glaucoma  or 
ocular hypertension. The bimatoprost solutions had the same BAK concentration, namely 50 ppm as 
Lumigan. The following doses and regimen were tested: bimatoprost 0.01 % BID, 0.015 % BID, 0.02 
% QD, and 0.025 % QD compared with Lumigan (bimatoprost 0.03 %) QD and timolol 0.5 % BID, 
for one month. The primary endpoint was the change in IOP from baseline. 
188  patients  were  included.  There  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  0.03  %  QD 
group  and  the  other  groups  (pair  wise  comparisons)  at  week  1,  but  this  did  not  remain  at  month  1. 
However, the numeric decrease was persistently larger with bimatoprost 0.03 % than with any other 
strength. The target IOP analysis (the percentage of patients who achieved a mean IOP ≤ 13 to ≤ 2 0 
mm Hg) did not reveal any specific pattern. 
192024-030 
This phase 2 trial was a 5-day, randomised, double-masked, paired-eye multi-centre study of the safety 
and efficacy of the bimatoprost 0.01 %, bimatoprost  0.015 %, bimatoprost  0.015 % with EDTA, and 
bimatoprost 0.02 % formulations with Lumigan.  
The primary efficacy variable was IOP change from baseline with Day H0 as the primary time point. 
Other endpoints were: IOP-readings, which were performed at H0, 4, 6 and 8 at baseline, at H 4 on 
Day  1  and  2,  at  H  4,  6,  and  8  on  days  3  and  4,  and  at  H0  on  Day  5.  A  total  of  249  patients  were 
randomised. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of the primary endpoint are shown below: 
Overall,  a  pattern  of  numeric  lower  mean  IOP  decrease  from  baseline  and  higher  mean  IOP  values 
with the sought bimatoprost 0.01 % concentration versus the approved Lumigan, bimatoprost 0.03 %, 
is evident. In 6/9 and 2/9 time points, respectively, the differences were statistically significant. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
192024-031 
This key study was a randomised, multi-centre, double-masked, parallel, active controlled, 3 months 
study  with  a  masked  9  months  extension  of  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  bimatoprost  0.01  %  and 
bimatoprost  0.0125  %,  both  preserved  with  BAK  200  ppm  compared  with  bimatoprost  0.03  % 
preserved  with  BAK  50  ppm  (Lumigan),  dosed  once  daily  in  patients  with  open  angle-glaucoma  or 
ocular hypertension. The primary end point was the change in the mean IOP from baseline. Secondary 
endpoints  were:  the  mean  IOP,  the  responder  rate,  i.e.  the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  a  target 
pressure of < 18 mm Hg at all time points, mean change from baseline IOP stratified by IOP/CCT and 
adjusted for CCT,  mean IOP stratified by IOP/CCT and adjusted for CCT, mean diurnal IOP, mean 
change from baseline diurnal IOP, physician’s global assessment the investigator’s willingness to use 
the  medication.  Several  analyses  on  scheduled  time  points  for  changes  in  conjunctival  bulbar 
hyperaemia, graded on a 5-point scale were also performed. A total of 561 patients were randomised. 
Results for the primary endpoint are depicted below. 
10 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
 
 
Statistically and clinically significant mean decreases from baseline IOP were seen with all treatments 
at each time point. 
The primary efficacy endpoint, non-inferiority at all post-baseline time points, has not formally been 
fulfilled, as the difference within 1.50 mm Hg margin was obtained at 15/17 points and not in 17/17 
time  points.  Numerically,  the  mean  decrease  in  IOP  and  the  IOP  were  constantly  lower  with 
bimatoprost 0.01 % than with bimatoprost 0.03 %. 
The responder rate is surprisingly low for all treatment groups. The numeric differences between the 
Lumigan and the 2 other treatment groups in absolute figures is clear and maybe clinically relevant, 
although not statistically significant. 
Adjusted analyses confirmed the results.  
192024-035  
This trial was intended to evaluate the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.01 % eye drops once daily 
compared  with  vehicle  administered  once  daily  for  one  month  in  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension 
patients whose IOP was controlled with latanoprost 0.005 % eye drops (these eye drops are preserved 
with 200 ppm BAK). The dosing regimen was one application daily. 
The primary variable was macroscopic hyperaemia. The bulbar hyperaemia was graded compared to 
standard photographs on a 5-point scale: 0, + 0.5 (trace), + 1 (mild), +2 (moderate), + 3 (severe). The 
primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  IOP,  which  was  measured  at  baseline  and  at  Month  1  at  H0  (in  the 
morning  between  7  and  9  a.m.),  4  and  8  hours  after  the  morning  determination.  A  number  of  222 
patients were recruited, of whom 151 received bimatoprost and 71 received vehicle. 
For the primary endpoint an increase in the macroscopic hyperaemia from baseline, i.e. on latanoprost 
therapy, was observed with bimatoprost (0,18; p<0.001), as well as with vehicle (0.02; p<0.581). The 
former  increase  was  considerably  more  pronounced than  the  latter.  The  absolute  values  are,  though, 
not grave. The difference between bimatoprost and vehicle was statistically significant with 0.15 grade 
(p<0.009; 95 % CI 0.04, 0.26).The difference was, however, within the non-inferiority margin of 0.5 
grades, consequently, the non-inferiority criterion was met. 
For the primary efficacy endpoint, i.e. IOP,  a statistically significant decrease from baseline to the 1 
month observations was noted at all 3 time measure points (range -0.7 to 1.3 mm Hg; p equal to or 
<0.002). This observation illustrates the rather high degree of efficiency of bimatoprost in relation to 
latanoprost. Correspondingly, a statistically significant increase in IOP was seen in the vehicle group 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with 3.3 to 3.6 mm Hg (p equal to or < 0.001). The difference between bimatoprost and vehicle ranges 
from – 4.06 to -4.81 mm Hg (p equal to or < 0.002). 
Study  192024-002,  previously  submitted  for  Lumigan,  evaluated  non-preserved  bimatoprost 
ophthalmic solutions at the 0.003%, 0.01% and 0.03% concentrations and demonstrated that the ocular 
hypotensive effect of bimatoprost was dose-related.   
Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy has been shown for the 0.01 % bimatoprost formulation applied for in patients with glaucoma 
or ocular hypertension.  
In the key study (192014-031), the non-inferiority margin was adequately predefined as 1.5 mm Hg, 
which  is  a  generally  accepted  value.  However,  persistently  numeric  less  favourable  outcome  in  IOP 
decrease from baseline, absolute IOP values, diurnal IOP control and the number of responders was 
seen, although the differences between bimatoprost 0.01 % and Lumigan are not large. The numeric 
differences between the Lumigan and the 2 other treatment groups in absolute figures is clear and may 
be clinically relevant, although not statistically significant. 
The primary efficacy endpoint, non-inferiority at all post-baseline time points, has not formally been 
fulfilled, as the difference within 1.50 mm Hg margin was obtained at 15/17 points and not in 17/17 
time  points.  Numerically,  the  mean  decrease  in  IOP  and  the  IOP  were  constantly  lower  with 
bimatoprost 0.01 % than with bimatoprost 0.03 %. 
Adjusted analyses confirmed the results. This also applies to all PP-analyses, pointing at robustness of 
the observations. The clinically important responder rate entity is numerically lower for bimatoprost 
0.01 % and 0.0125 % than for Lumigan (0.03 %). 
Although  efficacy  was  shown  for  bimatoprost  0.01  %  ,the  results  were  consistently  numerically 
inferior (approximately 0.5 mm/Hg) when compared with Lumigan 0.03 %. The cliical relevance of 
this difference is unknown.  
In the study 192024-035, an increase in the macroscopic hyperaemia from baseline, i.e. on latanoprost 
therapy, was observed with bimatoprost (0, 18; p<0.001), as well as with vehicle (0.02; p<0.581). The 
difference between bimatoprost and vehicle was statistically significant with 0.15 grade (p<0.009; 95 
%  CI  0.04,  0.26).The  difference  was,  however,  within  the  non-inferiority  margin  of  0.5  grades, 
consequently, the non-inferiority criterion was met. 
For the primary efficacy endpoint, i.e. IOP, a statistically significant decrease from baseline to the 1 
month observations was noted at all 3 time measure points (range -0.7 to 1.3 mm Hg; p equal to or < 
0.002). Correspondingly, a statistically significant increase in IOP was seen in the vehicle group with 
3.3 to 3.6 mm Hg (p equal to or < 0.001). The difference between bimatoprost and vehicle ranges from 
– 4.06 to -4.81 mm Hg (p equal to or < 0.002). This study supports the high degree of clinical efficacy 
of bimatoprost 0.01% in terms of IOP-decreasing properties. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The number of exposed subjects is depicted below:
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
14 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The total exposure is shown in the table below:  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The demographic features of the exposed population are shown below: 
An overall summary of reported adverse events in the 3 trials is shown in the table below: 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
As the 2 clinical studies 192024-030 and 192024-031 were of a different design (the former being a 
pair-wise comparison between the 2 eyes, and the latter being a parallel group study), and the doses 
applied were different from the formulation of bimatoprost applied for the data are not pooled.  In the 
double –masked study 192024-035 with bimatoprost 0.01 % versus vehicle the patients were switched 
directly from latanoprost treatment to either active or vehicle. 
A review of the recorded ocular adverse events is depicted below.
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
 
 
 
20 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
 
The  following  parameters  were  all  statistically  significantly  less  frequent  in  the  bimatoprost  0.01  % 
group  than  in  the  Lumigan  group:  Ocular  adverse  events,  discontinuations  due  to  ocular  adverse 
events,  and  all  adverse  events,  which  were  driven  by  the  ocular  adverse  events  (p≤0.043).  The 
difference is seemingly more pronounced in the parallel group study of longer duration. 
Ocular adverse events 
The  most  common  ocular  adverse  events  with  Bimatoprost 0.01%  were  conjunctival  hyperaemia, 
erythema of eyelid, eye irritation, growth of eyelashes, eye pruritus, eye pain and abnormal sensation 
in the eye. The majority of ocular adverse events were of mild severity. 
There were no reports of cystoid macular oedema, uveitis or iritis in the Bimatoprost 0.01% group in 
any  clinical  study.    Changes  in  iris  colour,  interpreted  as  iris  hyperpigmentation  was  noted  in  2 
patients in the bimatoprost 0.01 % group, in 2 patients in the Bimatoprost 0.0125% group and 1 patient 
in the Lumigan 0.03 % group.  
Ocular adverse events were, overall, less frequent with the bimatoprost 0.01 % formulation compared 
to  Lumigan.  This  was  particularly  noticed  for  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  punctate  keratitis  and 
erythema  of  the  eyelid.  The  2  cases  interpreted  as  iris  hyperpigmentation  are  not  included  in  the 
bimatoprost 0.01 % group above. There is no clear preponderance of ocular adverse events with the 
0.0125  %  formulation  as  compared  to  the  0.01  %  strength.  The  shorter  duration  Phase  2  studies, 
suggest  that  bimatoprost  0.01%  had  fewer  ocular  adverse  events  overall  compared  with  Lumigan 
0.03% (study -030) and more than vehicle (study -035). 
Overall,  these  data  suggest  that  Bimatoprost  0.01%  might  have  a  better  tolerability  profile  than 
Lumigan. Surprisingly, some AEs related to ocular surface damage such as punctate keratitis and dry 
eye were reported more frequently in the Lumigan treatment arm. Ocular symptomatology as well as 
assessment  of  tear  film,  as  a  measure  of  ocular  surface  damage,  have  not  been  systematically 
assessed/recorded  in  the  pivotal  study.  Except  for  conjunctivae  hyperaemia,  the  incidence  of  ocular 
AEs is unexpectedly low. Thus, conclusions favouring one of the formulations can not be drawn.   
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Three deaths were reported from the  clinical studies (all in the 192024-031 trial), all of which were 
regarded  as  not  related  to  study  medication.  The  causes  were  malignant  lung  neoplasm,  cerebral 
haemorrhage, and myocardial infarction, which were reported from 82 to 252 days after onset of the 
treatment. 
Laboratory findings 
No laboratory evaluations were performed. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No specific drug-drug or drug-food interaction studies were performed with Bimatoprost 0.01%. The 
clinical studies allowed concomitant use of artificial tear products, and other systemic therapies were 
permitted.  However,  no  change  to  the  dosing  regimen  was  made  throughout  the  studies  to  those 
medicines that could impair the interpretation of the results, e.g. beta adrenergic blocking agents. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
In study 192024-030, no patient discontinued because of adverse events. 
In  study  192024-031,  30  patients  discontinued  due  to  adverse  events:  4.3%  (8/185)  of  patients 
receiving  Bimatoprost 0.01%,  4.3%  (8/188)  with  Bimatoprost  0.0125%,  and  7.5%  (14/187)  with 
Lumigan  (p=  0.285).  21  patients  discontinued  because  of  treatment  related  adverse  events.  The 
treatment-related causes of discontinuation from the Bimatoprost 0.01% group were mild conjunctival 
hyperaemia  in  2  patients,  mild  conjunctival  hyperaemia  and  eye  pruritus  in  1 patient,  and  moderate 
vision  blurred,  instillation  site  irritation,  headache  and  nausea  in  another  patient.  All  of  the 
discontinuations  due  to  ocular  adverse  events  in  the  Bimatoprost 0.01%  group  occurred  in  the  first 
months  of  usage.  Nine  patients  discontinued  due  to  conjunctival  hyperaemia  across  all  treatment 
groups: 3 from the Bimatoprost 0.01% group, 1 from the Bimatoprost 0.0125% group and 5 from the 
22 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lumigan group. The incidence of patients who discontinued due to ocular adverse events was 2.2 % 
(4/185)  with Bimatoprost 0.01%,  3.2 %  (6/188)  with  Bimatoprost 0.0125%,  and  6.4%  (12/187)  with 
Lumigan (p = 0.088). One patient discontinued due to treatment-related non-ocular adverse events in 
the  Bimatoprost 0.01%  group.  Intermittent  nausea  and  headache  occurred  in  the  same  patient  on 
Day 1. The patient also experienced instillation site irritation and blurred vision. The events resulted in 
discontinuation but resolved without sequelae.   
The  discontinuation  rate  due  to  ocular  adverse  events  and  conjunctival  hyperaemia  are  numerically 
lower with bimatoprost 0.01 % than with Lumigan. However, the differences are small. Four patients 
in  the  bimatoprost  0.01  %  group  versus  12  patients  in  the  Lumigan  group  withdrew  because  of 
treatment-related adverse events. The relevance of these differences isunknown. 
In  study  192024-035,  two  patients  discontinued  because  of  ocular  events,  in  both  cases  regarded  as 
treatment  related,  and  both  patients  received  bimatoprost.  The  reports  encompassed  moderate 
conjunctival  hyperaemia,  moderate  vision  blurred  and  moderate  eye  pruritus,  and,  respectively, 
moderate photophobia. 
Conclusions on clinical safety 
In the trials, a total of 1030 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension were evaluated 
for safety, of whom 396 received bimatoprost 0.01 %, and of these patients, 185 were exposed for 12 
months. 
Overall, ocular adverse events were less frequent with the bimatoprost 0.01 % formulation than with 
Lumigan 0.03 %. This was particularly noticed for conjunctival hyperaemia, but also erythema of the 
eyelid,  punctate  keratitis,  eye  pruritus,  foreign  body  sensation,  corneal  erosion,  and  skin 
hyperpigmentation  (that  is  regularly  mentioned  as  a  complaint  by  the  patients)  occurred  less 
frequently. 
In view of the increased BAK dosage, the clinical relevance of the higher frequency in the bimatoprost 
0.01  %  group  of  eye  irritation,  conjunctival  haemorrhage  and  conjunctival  oedema  is  a  matter  of 
concern and should be established. 
Regarding  treatment-related  adverse  events,  eye  irritation  is  reported  more  often  in  the  bimatoprost 
0.01  %  group.  For  neither  ocular  nor  treatment  related  ocular  adverse  events  a  better  profile  of  the  
0.01 % formulation as compared to the 0.0125 % formulation is obvious.  
Iris  hyperpigmentation  was  found  in  2  patients  in  both  the  Bimatoprost 0.01%  group  and  the 
Bimatoprost 0.0125% group, and 1 patient in the Lumigan group. There were no cases of uveitis, iritis, 
cystoid macular oedema reported in patients receiving Bimatoprost 0.01%. There were no indications 
of a more pronounced progression of glaucoma with the weaker bimatoprost 0.01 % formulation than 
with Lumigan 0.03 % in the 12-months study. 
Four  patients  in  the  bimatoprost  0.01  %  group  versus  12  patients  in  the  Lumigan  group  withdrew 
because  of  treatment  related  adverse  events.  Considering  the  compliance  with  any  medical  anti-
glaucoma therapy, the clinical significance of these observations is not clear. Furthermore, 3 withdrew 
in bimatoprost 0.01% group due to conjunctival hyperemia, whereas 5 patients withdrew for the same 
reasons in the Lumigan group, which was not considered a relevant finding. In the 192024-035 trial 
two patients treated with bimatoprost 0.01 % discontinued because of adverse events. No new ocular 
adverse events were reported with the increased BAK concentration. 
Some CHMP members expressed concerns that the new 0.01 % formulation may be associated with 
increased  ocular  toxicity  than  Lumigan  0.03%  in  the  long-term,  due  to  the  increase  in  BAK 
concentration.  Corneal  tissue  damage  was  not  systematically  evaluated  in  the  clinical  studies  in 
support of this application, and studies were not sufficiently long to assess this damage. The potential 
consequences  for  the  target  population  will  have  to  be  investigated  and  thus  a  post-marketing  study 
will need to be carried out.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally,  some  CHMP  members  were  concerned  that  the  rationale  to  support  the  final  BAK 
concentration  of  200  ppm  was  based  on  non-clinical  studies  and  on  the  fact  that  other  available 
prostaglandin  analogues  (e.g.  latanoprost)  contain  the  same  concentration,  which  is  not,  per  se, 
entirely reassuring for them, especially given the 4-fold increment in the dose of BAK. Some CHMP 
members also expressed their dissatisfaction for the fact that clinical trials comparing different BAK 
concentrations would have been necessary to establish the most appropriate amount of BAK, and be 
able to avoid unnecessarily high amounts of this preservative in the new formulation. 
However, given the new changes introduced in the Product Information and Allergan’s commitment to 
investigate the potential consequences for the target population in a post-marketing study, following 
the  Oral  Explanation  the  majority  of  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  safety  concerns  had  been 
sufficiently addressed. 
Pharmacovigilance system   
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  MAH  fulfils  the 
requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  MAH  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the EU or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
As part of their responses to the LoOI adopted by the CHMP in January 2009, the MAH submitted an 
updated version of the risk management plan (version 03). A summary of its assessment is provided 
below: 
The CHMP, having noted version 3 of the RMP, considered that cardiovascular events and off-label 
use had been satisfactorily addressed. The targeted pharmacovigilance proposed by the MAH was also 
acceptable  to  the  CHMP.  Regarding  potential  for  off-label  use,  the  MAH  proposed  a  targeted 
questionnaire to distinguish among Lumigan 0.3mg/ml, Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml and Latisse (approved in 
the  US  for  treatment  of  hypotrichosis  of  eyelashes),  to  determine  whether  the  product  was  obtained 
with  or  without  prescription,  and  to  determine  the  indication  for  use.  The  CHMP  considered  this 
proposal to be acceptable. 
Additionally,  the  MAH  proposed  a  post-marketing  study  to  compare  the  long-term  ocular  surface 
safety (including BAK-related corneal toxicity) between the two formulations of bimatoprost (0.1 and 
0.3 mg/ml), to provide data on clinical practice patterns and incidence of ocular surface events, and to 
improve the knowledge of the risk factors for AEs. Only a brief summary of the study protocol was 
been included in the RMP. 
Populations  with  important  missing  information  have  been  addressed  in  the  pharmacovigilance  plan 
and the proposal of routine pharmacovigilance activities is adequate. 
The MAH agreed with the CHMP that ADRs that have been required to be monitored in PSURs are 
already  signals  (iris  pigmentation,  corneal  oedema,  corneal  ulcer,  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates, 
choroidal  effusion,  reactivation  of  previous  infective  ocular  disease,  increase  in  IOP,  cardiovascular 
events, and asthma). These ADRs have been included in the RMP as important risks.  
Finally, appropriate data on clinical trial exposure included in version 3 of the RMP was considered 
satisfactory by the CHMP. 
However, the CHMP was of the opinion that version 3 of the RMP needed improvement.  
In  order  for    it  to  be  approvable,  the  Risk  Minimization  Plan  needed  to  address  important  potential 
risks  others  than  asthma  [i.e.  choroidal  effusion,  increase  in  IOP,  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates, 
reactivation  of  previous  infective  ocular  disease,  cardiovascular  events  (angina,  bradycardia, 
hypotension),  and  potential  for  off-label  use].  The  CHMP  considered  that  at  least  provision  of 
information in the SPC was necessary in order to reduce the risks associated with these concerns and 
that RMP should adequately refer to this risk minimization strategy. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 3 of the RMP included BAK-related corneal toxicity as an important identified risk. However, 
adequate  measures  needed  to  be  identified  and  implemented  to  monitor  and  ascertain  the risk  to  the 
cornea associated with use of 200 ppm BAK, supplemented by appropriate amendments to section 4.3. 
and 4.4 of the SPC, as necessary. 
Additionally, Version 3 of the RMP also included cardiovascular adverse events (angina, bradycardia, 
hypotension) as important potential risks. Their epidemiology in glaucoma-patients was discussed and 
cardiac  disorders  have  been  included  among  the  pharmacological  class  effects.  However,  no  risk 
minimization activities have been proposed. 
Furthermore, Version 3 of the RMP included potential for off-label use as important potential risks. 
However, no risk minimization activities have been proposed. 
Finally,  the  CHMP  did  not  agree  that  no  additional  risk  minimization  activities  are  required  for 
choroidal  effusion,  increase  in  IOP,  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates  and  reactivation  of  previous 
ocular  disease.  At  least,  routine  risk  minimization  activities  and  information  in  the  SPC  were 
considered necessary. 
In summary, in September 2009, three were the main CHMP concerns with regards to RMP and risk 
minimisation: 
a - Provision of information in the SPC was be necessary in order to reduce the risks associated with 
these  concerns  and  that  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  had  to  adequately  refer  to  this  risk 
minimization strategy. 
b  -  The  section  “Populations  not  studied  in  the  pre-authorisation  phase”  of  the  RMP  had  to  be 
amended,  since  pregnancy  was  addressed  in  two  different  paragraphs.  The  first  one  deals  with 
pregnancy  and  the  second  one  addressed  both  pregnancy  and  lactation.  The  first  one  was  to  be 
deleted, since information regarding the number of pregnancies (three) was outdated. 
c  -  In  section  “Post  authorisation  experience”  of  the  RMP,  the  CHMP  recommended,  in  order  to 
increase the accuracy of the wording of the section, that the sentence referring to events required to be 
monitored  (i.e.  iris  pigmentation,  corneal  oedema,  corneal  ulcer,  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates, 
choroidal effusion, reactivation of previous infective ocular disease, increase in intraocular pressure, 
cardiovascular  events,  and  asthma)  and  stated  that  no  safety  signals  have  been  identified  for  them 
should be deleted.  
Allergan  pointed  out  that,  in  order  to  manage  the  potential  risks  associated  with  BAK,  the 
Lumigan 0.01%  SPC  and  Package  Leaflet  will 
include  relevant  warnings,  precautions  and 
contraindications and the risk management plan identifies BAK-related corneal toxicity as an important 
identified risk.  Additionally, to increase knowledge regarding the long-term effects of this formulation 
in a broader setting, Allergan added to the initially proposed protocol of the post-marketing study an 
assessment  of  the  tear  break-up  time  (TBUT)  as  part  of  the  evaluation  of  the  effect  of  the  increased 
BAK  concentration.  This  and  other  proposals  were  submitted  by  the  MAH  in  an  updated  Risk 
Management Plan (Version 4.0). 
RMP Version 4.0 
To specifically address the individual concerns of the CHMP, the MAH responded pointing out that  
(a) In order to monitor and manage the safety of Lumigan 0.01%, the proposed pharmacovigilance and 
risk  management  activities  (see  below)  will  allow  for  close  assessment  of  the  safety  profile  in  a 
broader  setting  (i.e.  real-life)  and  will  help  educate  physicians  and  patients  regarding  the  important 
risks associated with Lumigan 0.01%.  In addition, a post-marketing study will help obtaining a better 
understanding of the long-term safety of the new Lumigan 0.01% formulation in a broader setting. The 
proposed  modifications  to  the  SPC  relating  to  BAK  are  outlined  in  section  V  of  this  Assessment 
Report.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  this  concern  had  been  satisfactorily  addressed.  However,  the  committee 
expressed the view that the post-marketing study should be a Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT). 
(b) Allergan agreed with the CHMP comment. In the updated RMP (Version 4), the first paragraph on 
pregnancy  in  the  “Populations  not  studied  in  the  pre-authorisation  phase”  has  been  deleted.  The 
CHMP considered that this concern had been satisfactorily addressed. 
(c) The MAH responded that the following changes were made to the “Post authorisation experience” 
section of the RMP: 
The proposed text will read:  
In  addition  to  the  post-marketing  commitments,  EMEA  Assessments  of  BIM  0.03%  PSURs  have 
requested the following adverse events be monitored and evaluated: Cardiovascular events, Asthma, 
Corneal oedema, Choroidal effusion, Corneal ulcer, Reactivation of previous infective ocular disease, 
Reactivation of corneal infiltrates, Iris pigmentation, and Increase in intraocular pressure.  Since the 
initial  request  by  EMEA,  these  events  of  interest  have  been  routinely  monitored  through  Allergan’s 
Signal  Detection  Reviews  and  addressed  in  BIM  0.03%  PSURs.    To  date  there  have  been  no  safety 
signals identified for any of these events, no changes to the BIM 0.03% product labelling have been 
recommended, and the EMEA Assessment Reports have not disagreed.  Subsequent cases involving the 
events  of  interest  or  events  identified  as  potential  safety  signals  by  Allergan  will  be  monitored  and 
evaluated as part of ongoing Signal Detection Reviews and discussed in PSURs as appropriate. 
The CHMP considered that this concern had been satisfactorily addressed. 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities (RMP 4.0) 
Iris  pigmentation,  punctate  keratitis  and  BAK-related  corneal  toxicity  have  been  reported  following 
bimatoprost  use  in  OAG  and  are  classified  as  important  identified  risks.  These  events  are  identified 
and characterized either in section 4.3 (Contraindications), 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for 
use) or 4.8 (“Undesirable effects”) of the SPC and in the Package Leaflet and proposed SPC and PL 
for  Lumigan  0.01%.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  these  sections  inform  both  physicians  and  patients  of 
these possible adverse reactions.  
Choroidal effusion, increase in IOP, reactivation of corneal infiltrates, reactivation of previous ocular 
disease, cardiovascular events (angina, bradycardia and hypotension) and off label use (cosmetic use 
for  eyelash  growth)  are  included  as  important  potential  risks  in  the  RMP.  The  MAH  agreed  that  a 
number  of  the  events  listed  as  Important  Potential  Risks  in  the  Risk  Management  Plan  should  be 
included  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  (i.e.  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates,  reactivation  of  previous 
infective ocular diseases, bradycardia and hypotension). Each of these issues is dealt with individually 
below. 
Reactivation of corneal infiltrates and reactivation of previous infective ocular disease 
To  date  the  MAH  has  received  a  total  of  10  cumulative  reports  of  reactivation  of  significant  prior 
ocular infection or recurrence of uveitis associated with the use of bimatoprost where causality could 
not be ruled out. A number of these are related to previous ocular viral infections. The MAH agrees 
that it is of value to the prescriber to include language within Section 4.4 Warnings and precautions for 
use of the SPC relating to this potential risk, as follows: 
“There  have  been  rare  spontaneous  reports  of  reactivation  of  previous  corneal  infiltrates  or 
ocular  infections  with  bimatoprost  0.3  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution.  LUMIGAN  should  be  used 
with  caution  in  patients  with  a  prior  history  of  significant  ocular  viral  infections  (e.g.  herpes 
simplex) or uveitis/iritis.” (See section V.3 of this document). 
Bradycardia 
A search of the data base for this event as well as reduced heart rate yielded 16 cases, three of which 
were considered unrelated. In the remaining cases a relationship could not be ruled out. In the majority 
of cases there existed a medical history of bradycardia, in some cases in association with the use of 
IOP lowering agents. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypotension 
A search of the data base for this event as well as decreased blood pressure yielded 11 cases, one of 
which were considered unrelated and one of which was assessed as unlikely to be related. In two cases 
the relationship was assessed as definite or reasonably possible. In the remaining cases a relationship 
could not be ruled out. Where details of medical history were available, a number of patients reported 
previous fainting episodes or chronic low blood pressure. 
Based upon these analyses of the cumulative data, the MAH considers that it is appropriate to include 
both  bradycardia  and  hypotension  in  Section  4.4  Warnings  and  precautions  for  use  of  the  SPC,  as 
follows: 
“LUMIGAN  has  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  heart  block  more  severe  than  first  degree  or 
uncontrolled congestive heart failure. There have been a limited number of spontaneous reports of 
bradycardia or hypotension with bimatoprost 0.3 mg/ml eye drops, solution. LUMIGAN should 
be  used  with  caution  in  patients  predisposed  to  low  heart  rate  or  low  blood  pressure.”  (see 
section V.3 of this document). 
However,  based  on  the  CHMP  assessment  of  PSURs  7-9  of  Lumigan,  the  MAH  proposed  not  to 
include  more  information  on  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  regarding  choroidal  effusion,  increase  in 
intraocular pressure, and angina. It is considered that these concerns are adequately addressed by the 
proposed  actions  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan  and  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities 
beyond these are warranted.  
Choroidal effusion 
There have only been two reports of choroidal  effusion from over a decade of exposure from  either 
clinical trials or post-marketing experience. Only one of these was a serious case and in both cases the 
relationship to Lumigan usage was not clear cut but could not be ruled out. The CHMP assessment of 
PSURs  7-9  noted  that  choroidal  effusion  is  not  considered  a  pharmacological  class  effect  of 
prostaglandins/prostamides. Accordingly, therefore, it has been agreed that this adverse event will no 
longer  be  routinely  discussed  in  future  PSURs  in  Section  8.4  Special  Safety  Analysis.  However, 
routine  Pharmacovigilance  will  continue.  Based  upon  this  assessment  of  the  cumulative  information 
the MAH did not considered appropriate to include any reference to choroidal effusion in the SPC, but 
its inclusion in the Risk Management Plan will continue. The CHMP considered this to be acceptable. 
Increase in intraocular pressure 
This  event  has  been  included  as  a  topic  in  the  Special  Safety  Analysis  section  of  the  PSUR  for  a 
number  of  years  and  has  been  thoroughly  evaluated  by  both  the  MAH  and  CHMP.  The  Bridging 
Report  of  PSUR  7  -  9  included  reference  to  a  cumulative  analysis  which  had  been  performed  to 
support the update to the CCDS. The CHMP assessment of PSURs 7 – 9 concluded that although there 
are a number of reports of increased IOP, the majority of these reports were consistent with lack of 
efficacy  or  provided  no  information  on  the  magnitude  of  the  IOP  increase.  Furthermore,  on  the 
relatively small number of reports where an IOP spike or significantly raised IOP, was described there 
were  either  a  clinically  sound  alternative  explanation  for  this  or  insufficient  details  to  determine  a 
positive  causality  for  Lumigan.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  based  on  the  review  of  IOP  increased  cases 
during this reporting period as well as the cumulative  analysis since first product launch, there does 
not  appear  to  be  a  safety  signal  for  IOP  increased  and  no  labelling  change  is  recommended. 
Accordingly, therefore, it has been agreed that this adverse event will no longer be routinely discussed 
in  future  PSURs  in  Section  8.4  Special  Safety  Analysis.  However,  routine  Pharmacovigilance  will 
continue. Therefore, the MAH proposed that reference to increased IOP would not be appropriate in 
the SPC, but its inclusion in the Risk Management Plan will continue. The CHMP considered this to 
be acceptable. 
Angina 
A total of 10 cases have been retrieved from the database, nine from clinical trials and the final case 
was  a  solicited  report  from  a  post  marketing  programme.  All  were  considered  to  be  unrelated  to 
Lumigan. It is therefore considered that including this event in Section 4.4 Warnings and precautions 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for use of the SPC would in fact be misleading, since there is no suggestion that there exists any link 
between  this  event  and  the  use  of  bimatoprost.  The  inclusion  of  this  event  in  the  Risk  Management 
Plan will continue. The CHMP considered this to be acceptable. 
Risk Minimisation Plan (RMP Version 4.0) 
In  the  MAH’s  opinion,  routine  pharmacovigilance  and  risk  management  activities  are  sufficient  to 
monitor and evaluate the important identified and potential risks. 
Conclusion on the RMP 
The  RMP  submitted  (Version  4.0)  was  acceptable  with  the  provision  that  a  post-marketing  clinical 
trial  to  evaluate  the  comparative  safety  between  both  bimatoprost  formulations  be  conducted  in  the 
context  of  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan.  The  MAH  should  submit  the  protocol  for  evaluation.  The 
CHMP recommended that Allergan consider a randomised clinical trial design for this purpose. 
The  need  for  risk  minimisation  activities  has  been  discussed.  Warnings  related  to  some  important 
potential risks have been included in section 4.4 of the SPC. The CHMP considered that the wording 
proposed  for  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  regarding  reactivation  of  corneal  infiltrates,  reactivation  of 
previous infective ocular diseases, bradycardia and hypotension is acceptable as a risk minimisation 
strategy.  
With  regard  to  choroidal  effusion,  increase  in  intraocular  pressure,  and  angina,  taking  into  account 
the assessment of PSURs 7-9, the CHMP considered that these concerns are adequately addressed by 
the proposed actions in the Pharmacovigilance Plan and that no additional risk minimisation activities 
beyond  these  are  warranted,  provided  that  not  only  routine  pharmacovigilance  but  also  targeted 
pharmacovigilance activities are conducted to monitor these adverse effects. 
Additionally,  the  sections  “Populations  not  studied  in  the  pre-authorisation  phase”  and  “Post 
authorisation experience” have been properly amended.  
Finally, the MAH emphasised that “LUMIGAN 0.1 mg/ml eye drops, solution is not considered to be a 
replacement for LUMIGAN 0.3 mg/ml and both products will be retained in the European market.” 
On  the  contrary,  by  providing  physicians  with  therapeutic  options  of  two  formulations  (one  with  a 
reduced  concentration  of  bimatoprost  or  one  with  a  low  benzalkonium  chloride  concentration),  the 
MAH pointed out that the goal of maximal IOP reduction combined with improved persistency in a 
greater number of patients overall would be achieved. It was the MAH’s belief that both IOP lowering 
and good adherence to treatment over a long period were required to ensure the best protection of the 
patients against visual loss due to glaucoma. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  above  sufficiently  addressed  the  concern  that  Lumigan  0.03  %  eye 
drops solution will still be available to patients. 
5. 
Benefit Risk assessment 
I.1 
5.1  
Clinical context 
Glaucoma is a blinding disease, during the treatment of which compliance to treatment is necessary to 
maintain vision. Tolerability and persistence with treatment are the biggest issues with IOP-lowering 
medications. Lumigan 0.03 % has a discontinuation rate that prevents some patients from receiving the 
benefits of its IOP-lowering effect. 
The  proposed  new  presentation  is  aimed  at  improving  the  ocular  surface  tolerability,  mainly 
conjunctival  hyperaemia,  by  reducing  to  one  third  the  content  of  bimatoprost  (i.e.  from  0.03%  to 
0.01%).  This  leads  to  an  increase  in  4-fold  of  the  preservative  BAK  in  order  to  achieve  a  greater 
absorption of the active substance. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Benefits  
Three  studies  had  originally  been  submitted  to  justify  the  efficacy  of  the  new  strength  for  Lumigan 
(i.e. Bimatoprost 0.01%). Study 020 was not intended to be part of this application and was presented 
as it was used to obtain information for the dose-finding study.  
Study 030 was a supportive trial in which 5 different formulations were compared with Lumigan for 5 
days to get some efficacy and safety data and decide the strengths to be used in the Phase 3 pivotal 
trial (Study 031). This study showed some differences in acute tolerance between doses favouring the 
lowest ones. 
Study 035, which was submitted in response to the CHMP D120 LoQ, compared safety and efficacy 
of  bimatoprost  0.01  %  eye  drops  once  daily  with  vehicle  administered  once  daily  for  one  month  in 
glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  patients  whose  IOP  was  controlled  with  latanoprost  0.005  %  eye 
drops.  An  increase  in  the  macroscopic  hyperaemia  from  baseline,  i.e.  on  latanoprost  therapy,  was 
observed  with  bimatoprost  (0,18;  p<0.001),  as  well  as  with  vehicle  (0.02;  p<0.581).  The  difference 
between bimatoprost and vehicle was statistically significant with 0.15 grade (p<0.009; 95 % CI 0.04, 
0.26).  The  difference  was  within  the  non-inferiority  margin  of  0.5  grades.  Consequently,  the  non-
inferiority criterion was met. 
The  benefit  of  the  new  formulation  mainly  relies  on  the  results  of  one  pivotal  trial  (Study  031)  in 
which  the  non-inferiority  of  Bimatoprost  0.01%  BAK  200  ppm  vs.  Lumigan  0.03%  could  be 
concluded at the pre-specified delta.  
5.3Risks  
The  main  rationale  for  developing  the  new  formulation  was  to  improve  the  ocular  tolerability  of 
bimatoprost  by  reducing  the  concentration  of  the  active  ingredient,  as  patients  discontinue  their 
treatment with Lumigan mainly due to conjunctival hyperaemia.  
Although  the  adverse  effects  of  glaucoma  medications  on  the  ocular  surface  are  likely  to  be  multi-
factorial, it is generally accepted that treatment with glaucoma medications containing higher levels of 
benzalkonium  chloride  (BAK)  resulted  in  greater  corneal  damage  and  conjunctival  cell  infiltration 
than medications containing alternative preservatives or with lower levels of BAK. 
Bearing in mind that anti-glaucoma medications are life-long therapies, and that often more than one 
topical therapy is necessary (thus increasing the total daily exposure to BAK), this formulation may 
improve  tolerability,  but  potentially  increase  toxicity  in  the  long-term  due  to  the  increase  in  BAK 
concentration.  
In the light of the above, prior to the October 2009 Oral Explanation, the main concerns of the CHMP 
on  the  overall  Benefit/Risk  of  Lumigan  0.1  mg/ml  can  be  summarised  with  the  following  Major 
Objections: 
1  Overall, a justification for the Bimatoprost 0.01 % eye drops with the increased concentration of 
the  cornea-toxic  agent  BAK  and  with  an  efficacy,  which  is  not  non-inferior  to  Lumigan  was  still 
needed.  
2  The  claimed  advantages  in  terms  of  tolerability  do  not  overturn  the  potential  disadvantages  in 
terms  of  ocular  surface  toxicity  and  its  long-term  consequences.  Moreover,  the  concept  of  the 
development of Bimatoprost 0.01 % eye drops increasing a toxic ingredient is not appropriate in 
the context of innovative drug progress. It was claimed by the MAH that such an increment in BAK 
concentration is needed to reach a similar IOP efficacy. However, the CHMP considered that this 
has not been demonstrated as lower concentrations have not been tested and the available evidence 
does not support this theory. 
Allergan  responded  that  they  recognised  that  200  ppm  benzalkonium  chloride  even  in  a  once  day 
formulation may not be suitable for all patients, specifically patients with evidence of corneal surface 
damage  or  where  multiple  BAK-containing  medications  are  employed.  Choice  between  two 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulations will depend on the patient’s ocular status and ability to tolerate the product. Therefore, in 
the view of the MAH, the therapeutic advantage for this new product was justified. 
To specifically address the two major objections outlined above, the MAH pointed out what follows: 
Medical treatment has been shown to slow the progression to blindness in patients with glaucoma or 
ocular hypertension and results from the EMGT have shown that there is a 10% reduction in the risk 
of visual field progression that for each mm Hg reduction in IOP. Clinical studies have demonstrated 
that  Lumigan  0.03%  is  a  powerful  IOP-lowering  agent.  However,  it  causes  significant  conjunctival 
hyperaemia  in  up  to 44%  of  patients,  causing  them  to  switch  or  discontinue  taking  their  medication 
and preventing them from gaining the full benefit of its IOP-lowering effect. 
Studies  in  the  clinical  practice  setting  have  found  an  alarming  rate  of  discontinuations  with 
prostaglandin analogues of up to 90% at one year with hyperaemia being among the key reasons for 
discontinuations.  Among  the  prostaglandin  analogues,  the  rate  of  hyperaemia  and  discontinuation 
appears highest with Lumigan (Figure 1).  
Figure  1:    Kaplan-Meier  plot  for  time  to  discontinuation  of  ocular  hypotensive  therapies 
Source: Reardon et al, 2004 
While there are alternative IOP-lowering agents available in the marketplace, the current trade-off for 
those who cannot tolerate Lumigan is to accept replacing Lumigan 0.03% with another prostaglandin 
analogue or add an additional glaucoma medication to another prostaglandin analogue to achieve the 
same efficacy as Lumigan 0.03%.  
Therefore, it is Allergan’s belief that there is an unmet medical need to provide Lumigan in a different 
formulation  for  those  patients  are  willing  to  take  Lumigan  consistently.  Thus,  improving  the  ocular 
tolerability of Lumigan 0.03% while maintaining its IOP-lowering efficacy was the primary goal for 
the development of Lumigan 0.01%. 
Allergan spent several years trying to develop a new formulation to achieve our goal, and evaluated a 
variety  of  formulations  and  delivery  approaches.  Based  on  dose-ranging  studies  conducted  in  the 
development  of  Lumigan  0.03%,  Allergan  ultimately  concluded  that  reducing  the  concentration  of 
bimatoprost  to  no  more  than  0.01%  was  essential  in  reducing  the  ocular  surface  adverse  events.  
However, these same dose-ranging studies demonstrated that a reduced concentration of bimatoprost 
of 0.01% would reduce the IOP-lowering effects by approximately 2 mm Hg compared with Lumigan 
0.03%,  and  substantially  reduce  the  product’s  efficacy.  Therefore,  a  formulation  would  require  a  3-
fold  increase  in  ocular  absorption  of  bimatoprost  in  order  to  achieve  similar  aqueous  humour 
concentrations and clinical efficacy to that of Lumigan 0.03%. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leveraging the physio-chemical properties of bimatoprost to increase penetration through the use of 
penetration enhancers such as BAK was novel and innovative when this development programme was 
initiated. Using BAK to safely achieve a 3-fold increase in ocular bioavailability of bimatoprost was 
considered to be innovative 
The approach resulted in achieving the goal of an improved ocular safety and tolerability profile with 
comparable IOP-lowering efficacy to Lumigan 0.03% in a formulation that contained 67% less of the 
active drug substance. 
This  strategy  is  also  consistent  with  the  EGS  guidelines,  which  reads  ‘The  least  amount  of 
medication...to achieve the therapeutic response should be a consistent goal’. 
Formulation Rationale and Non-clinical Supporting Data 
Topical ocular drugs are absorbed across the corneal epithelium through paracellular or transcellular 
routes. The hydrophilic character of a drug is a key determinant for the predominant absorption route.  
Hydrophilic  drugs  are  absorbed  primarily  through  the  paracellular  pathway  and  less  hydrophilic  or 
hydrophobic  drugs  predominantly  by  the  transcellular  route.  Bimatoprost  relies  on  the  paracellular 
route  of  penetration.    Because  BAK  enhances  ocular  absorption  of  hydrophilic  drugs  by  transiently 
relaxing  epithelial  tight  junctions  that  temporarily  opens  the  paracellular  route  to  drug  absorption,  it 
was anticipated that bimatoprost’s penetration would benefit significantly from an increase in BAK. 
This became the formulation strategy for Lumigan 0.01%. 
Rabbit  PK  studies  have  provided  convincing  nonclinical  confirmation  that  BAK  enhances 
bioavailability of bimatoprost in a dose-dependent fashion up to 200 ppm and that a formulation with  
200 ppm BAK and only 1/3 the active drug substance could perform comparably to Lumigan 0.03% 
(Figure 2). 
Figure 2 
Bimatoprost on Median AUC (Study PK-09-063) 
BAK Dose Dependent Effect on Ocular Bioavailability of 0.01% 
)
L
m
/
r
h
g
n
(
⋅
r
h
6
-
0
C
U
A
y = 0.1138x + 28.5
R2 = 0.852
60
50
40
30
20
0
50
100
150
200
250
BAK Concentration (ppm)
Clinical Rationale for the 0.01% Formulation 
During the development of LUMIGAN 0.03% several Phase 2 dose-response studies were conducted 
using a formulation of bimatoprost containing no preservative.  Results of Study 192024-002 (Report 
previously  submitted)  showed  that  bimatoprost  0.01%’s  IOP-lowering  efficacy  was  approximately  2 
mm Hg less than that of bimatoprost 0.03%, a clinically important difference (Table 5). 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 5:  192024-002 Overall Difference in Mean Change from Baseline in IOP (mm Hg) at Day 
21 
Bimatoprost 0.01%/ 
0 ppm BAK 
Bimatoprost 0.03%/ 
0 ppm BAK 
-4.1 
-6.0 
DIFF 
-1.9 
Report 192024-002, Table 9a. The results presented are an average of the 5 time points measured (hr 0, 4, 8, 12, 
and 14). 
It was also observed from the dose-ranging studies that we could expect a reduction in the incidence of 
adverse events (particularly hyperaemia) if we could reduce the active drug concentration from 0.03% 
to 0.01% (Table 6). 
Table 6:  192024-001 Adverse Events: Conjunctival Hyperaemia 
Bimatoprost 0.01%/ 
0 ppm BAK 
Bimatoprost 0.03%/ 
0 ppm BAK 
8.3% 
50.5% 
Report 192024-001, Table 20a 
Therefore, Allergan’s strategy was to reduce the concentration of bimatoprost through the use of BAK, 
with  the  expectation  that  the  product  would  achieve  the  same  IOP-lowering  efficacy  seen  with 
Lumigan 0.03% with the ocular tolerability and safety profile of the 0.01% concentration.    
Confirmation of the Desired Clinical Efficacy of LUMIGAN 0.01% 
During  the  development  of  LUMIGAN  0.01%,  the  phase  2  (Report  192024-030,  previously 
submitted)  and  phase  3  (Report  192024-031,  previously  submitted)  studies  used  the  formulation  of 
bimatoprost  containing  200ppm  BAK.      Results  of  these  studies  showed  that  bimatoprost  0.01%’s 
IOP-lowering  efficacy  was  approximately  0.5  mm  Hg  less  than  that  of  bimatoprost  0.03%,  clearly 
demonstrating an improvement in the IOP-lowering efficacy of bimatoprost 0.01% when formulated 
with 200ppm BAK (Table 7).  
Table 7:  Overall Difference in Mean Change from Baseline in IOP (mm Hg) - (across all visits and 
timepoints) 
Lumigan 0.01% 
-6.4 
Lumigan 0.03% 
-6.8 
Report 192024-031, Table 14.5-6 
Difference 
0.43 
These  results  not  only  provide  clinical  confirmation  that  bimatoprost  0.01%  achieved  clinically 
comparable results to bimatoprost 0.03%, but also demonstrate that unlike other PGAs, a preservative-
free formulation of Lumigan 0.01% would not provide similar efficacy to a preserved formulation.  
In  addition,  based  on  the  clinical  development  results  and  supported  by  the  non-clinical  PK  results, 
Allergan concluded that a formulation of Lumigan 0.01% containing less than 200 ppm BAK would 
not have proven comparable in IOP-lowering efficacy to that of Lumigan 0.03%. 
Confirmation of the Improved Safety Profile of Lumigan 0.01% 
Based  on  the  safety  finding  from  the  dose-ranging  studies  for  bimatoprost,  it  was  considered  likely 
that  the  0.01%  bimatoprost  concentration  would  have  a  better  ocular  safety  and  tolerability  profile 
compared with 0.03%.   
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite not being powered for safety, there were significant differences in favour of Lumigan 0.01%. 
Bimatoprost  0.01%  had  a  significantly  lower  incidence  of  adverse  events  (overall  and  ocular), 
treatment-related or all causality, and had a significantly lower incidence of adverse events related to 
the ocular surface, treatment-related or all causality. Furthermore, the results showed a better ocular 
safety  for  Bimatoprost  0.01%  than  for  Bimatoprost  0.03%  in  the  high-risk  population  with  dry  eyes 
and also in patients not previously exposed to BAK. 
In  addition,  there  was  a  significantly  higher  rate  of  discontinuation  of  Lumigan  0.03%  over  time.  
Importantly, this increased rate of discontinuation for Lumigan 0.03% compared with Lumigan 0.01%, 
as reflected in the relative risk (RR) for discontinuation (6.4% vs. 2.2%, RR: 2.9) is nearly identical to 
the  relative  risk  for  discontinuation  seen  in  the  pivotal  trials  for  Lumigan  0.03%  compared  with 
timolol  (5.3%  s.  1.7%,  RR:  3.1)  providing  greater  assurance  that  the  reduced  discontinuation  rates 
seen with Lumigan 0.01% are valid and offering a reasonable expectation that this formulation would 
meet the intended goal of improving compliance and persistency.  
In conclusion, the interaction between active drug substance, BAK and the ocular surface is a complex 
one and yet, with these data, Allergan viewed as biologically plausible that an increase in BAK in the 
presence of marked reduction in active drug substance does result in an improved ocular surface safety 
profile as seen with Lumigan 0.01%. 
5.4  Benefit/Risk Balance 
The  MAH  confirmed  that  “LUMIGAN  0.1  mg/ml  eye  drops,  solution  is  not  considered  to  be  a 
replacement for LUMIGAN 0.3 mg/ml and both products will be retained in the European market.” 
Following the Oral Explanation, the CHMP considered that the MAH sufficiently demonstrated that 
the  Lumigan  0.01  %  formulation  has  an  acceptable  safety  profile,  leading  to  fewer  discontinuations 
than with Lumigan 0.03% while maintaining comparable IOP reduction over 12 months. In addition, a 
post-marketing  study  proposed  as  part  of  the  risk  management  plan  will  help  obtaining  a  better 
understanding  of  the  long-term  safety  of  the  new  Lumigan  0.01%  formulation.  This  study  would 
preferably be a Randomised Clinical Trial, sufficiently large to pick up rare AEs. Ideally, this study 
would also include histological data analysis and analyses of the drop-out rate. 
The  majority  of  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  changes  introduced  in  the  Product  Information  and 
Allergan’s commitment to investigate the potential consequences for the target population in a post-
marketing study, sufficiently addressed the safety concerns. 
The CHMP considered the benefits of Lumigan 0.01 % formulation outweigh the potential risks.  
33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Overall Conclusions 
A  new  formulation  with  better  tolerability  and  less  hyperemia  was  necessary  to  improve  patient 
compliance. Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml eye drops was developed as lowering the incidence of conjunctival 
hyperaemia required a lower concentration of bimatoprost (from 0.03% to 0.01%). 
The MAH confirmed that Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml eye drops, solution will not constitute a replacement for 
Lumigan  0.3 mg/ml  and  both  products  will  be  retained  in  the  European  market,  thus  providing 
physicians  with  therapeutic  options  of  two  formulations  –  one  with  a  reduced  concentration  of 
bimatoprost or one with a low benzalkonium chloride concentration. 
The CHMP considered that both Lumigan 0.1 mg/ml and 0.3 mg/ml have a distinct place among IOP-
lowering agents.  
Allergan recognised that 200 ppm benzalkonium chloride even in a once day formulation may not be 
suitable  for  all  patients,  specifically,  patients  with  evidence  of  corneal  surface  damage  or  where 
multiple BAK-containing medications are employed.  Choice between two formulations will depend 
on the patient’s ocular status and ability to tolerate the product.   
To  increase  knowledge  regarding  the  long-term  effects  of  the  new  0.01  %  formulation,  a  post-
marketing  study  will  provide  the  additional  safety  data.  This  clinical  study  should  use  appropriate 
numbers  of  patients,  current  methodology  standards  and  appropriate  safety  monitoring  in  order  to 
detect potential toxic effects on ocular surface. In addition and in order to address the stability of the 
tear film, an assessment of the tear break-up time (TBUT) as part of the evaluation of the effect of the 
increased  BAK  concentration  has  been  endorsed  by  the  Committee.  The  CHMP  emphasized  that  a 
randomized controlled trial would be the most appropriate option to evaluate the comparative safety 
between the two bimatoprost formulations. This study should be sufficiently large to pick up rare AEs. 
Ideally, this study would also include histological data analysis and analyses of the drop-out rate. 
Finally,  in  order  to  manage  the  potential  risks  associated  with  BAK,  the  Lumigan 0.01%  SPC  and 
Package Leaflet include relevant warnings, precautions and contraindications and the risk management 
plan identifies BAK-related corneal toxicity as an important identified risk.   
Appropriate statements have been implemented in the SPC and PL and the RMP.  
In the light of the approval and forthcoming launch of the new strength, the CHMP considered that the 
PSUR submission frequency should be annual until otherwise specified by the CHMP.  
The procedure is recommended for a positive opinion adopted with divergent positions. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
