SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Lumigan. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  June  2004.    For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Bimatoprost  is  a  synthetic  prostamide,  structurally  related  to  prostaglandin  F2α.    It  is  currently 
indicated for the reduction of elevated IOP in chronic open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension 
(as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers). The product is presented as a 0.3 mg/ml 
eye drops solution.  
Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the world. It is a frequent disease and it has 
been estimated that 66.8 million have glaucoma, 6.7 million of who are bilaterally blind. Open angle 
glaucoma is the most common type, mainly primary but also, in some cases open angle glaucoma is 
secondary to the exfoliation syndrome or other primary ocular diseases.  
Open angle glaucoma is characterised by an optic neuropathy that leads to loss of optic-nerve tissue 
with  an  excavation  of  the  ophthalmoscopically  visible  optic  nerve  head  and  consequently,  to  a 
progressive loss of vision. The aetiology is multifactorial. Elevated IOP is the main risk factor for its 
development  and  reduction  of  IOP  has  been  demonstrated  to  protect  against  further  damage  to  the 
optic  nerve,  even  in  patients  with  IOP  that  is  statistically  “normal”  (so  called  normal  tension 
glaucoma).  Other  risk  factors  for  the  development  of  open-angle  glaucoma  include  inheritance,  age, 
race, myopia and cardiovascular disease.  
Up  to  10%  of  people  over  the  age  of  40  years  have  IOP  above  21  mmHg  (normal  range  10  to 
21 mmHg). Those who have IOP above 21 mmHg (but below 30 mmHg) but no optic nerve damage 
and no risk factors are considered to have ocular hypertension. Patients with ocular hypertension have 
an  increased  risk  of  progressing  to  real  glaucoma.  Recent  data  suggest  that  treatment  with  topical 
ocular  hypotensive  medication  is  effective  in  delaying  or  preventing  the  onset  of  glaucoma  in  such 
patients.  
The  overall  purpose  of  treatment  in  open  angle  glaucoma  is  to  preserve  visual  function  without 
causing  untoward  effects  from  therapy.  Treatment  is  focused  on  lowering  IOP  by  pharmacological 
means, surgically, or with lasers. The treatment aims to maintain the IOP at a pressure below which 
further optic nerve damage is unlikely to occur in the single patient. The target pressure is individually 
chosen  and  should  be  maintained  at  a  safe  level  at  which  the  progression  of  damage  is  arrested  or 
acceptably slow. The target IOP for each patient is initially chosen according to the current amount of 
optic damage and the pressure at which the damage occurred, but it will be further adjusted according 
to  the  disease  progression  in  subsequent  examinations  of  visual  field.  Although  different  clinical 
aspects  will  guide  the  choice  of  the  target  initial  pressure,  it  is  common  to  pursue  a  decrease  of  the 
IOP  between  20%  and  40%  depending  on  the  degree  of  associated  damage.  Once  the  patient  has 
achieved a “safe” IOP at which the disease does not progress, additional lowering of the IOP would 
provide marginal benefit entailing a higher risk of adverse reactions. 
The  IOP  can  be  lowered  by  medical  treatment,  laser  surgery,  and  incisional  surgery  (alone  or  in 
combination).  The  choice  of  initial  therapy  depends  on  numerous  considerations,  and  discussion  of 
treatment  should  include  all  appropriate  options.  In  most  instances,  pharmacological  therapy 
constitutes the initial step, moving to laser trabeculoplasty as an alternative when medical treatment, 
often in combination, has failed or is unsuitable. Filtering surgery is usually done as the last step, after 
failing the previous approaches. 
At  the  time  of  the  initial  approval  of  Lumigan  treatment  guidelines  recommended  that  medical 
treatment starts with a topical drug, a beta-blocker if contraindications are not present. Since that time 
prostaglandin  analogues  have  been  approved  for  use  as  first-line  therapy.  If  necessary,  a  second 
topical drug is added  or tested  in  monotherapy.  The possible second line drugs are alpha-adrenergic 
agonists (such as brimonidine or apraclonidine) or carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (such as dorzolamide 
or brinzolamide). Other treatments such as topical cholinergic agonists or systemic carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors have a more limited value.  
1/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Beta-blockers, and particularly timolol, which is the most popular product, have an excellent pressure-
lowering  efficacy,  long  duration  of  action  and  few  ocular  side  effects.  However  rare,  systemic  side 
effects  of  topical  beta-blockers  (bronchospasm  and  cardiac  side  effects)  may  limit  its  use  in  special 
populations (patients suffering from asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bradycardia, and 
elderly in general).  
Prostaglandin  analogues  are  the  most  recent  pharmacological  group  to  treat  topically  open  angle 
glaucoma. Instead of decreasing the production of aqueous humour produced by the ciliary body, as 
the  majority  of  the  above  mentioned  pharmacological  treatments,  these  products  lower  the  IOP  by 
means  of increasing the aqueous humour outflow through the uveoscleral pathway. Latanoprost was 
the  first  approved  product  within  this  pharmacological  group  followed  by  travoprost.    Bimatoprost 
was then approved in Europe in March 2002.  In Europe latanoprost went through mutual recognition 
procedure  and  was  accepted  in  all  Member  States,  with  the  indication  of  reduction  of  elevated 
intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension intolerant or with 
insufficient  response  to  any  other  therapy.  The  product  has  good  activity,  duration  of  action  that 
allows the administration once a day and few systemic side effects. There is still some caution with the 
long-term consequences derived of its new mechanism of action and some unusual ocular side effects 
such  as  the  irreversible  darkening  of  the  iris  or  the  appearance  of  cells  and  flare.  Bimatoprost  is  a 
synthetic prostamide, structurally related to prostaglandin F2α but its IOP lowering effect is claimed not 
to be related to prostaglandin receptors. 
In medical practice, those patients who have ocular hypertension should be periodically examined 
(optic nerve, visual fields) to determine whether there is evidence of progressive damage which would 
indicate the need to start with treatment. The decision to begin treatment to lower IOP in ocular 
hypertension is complex and depends on when ocular, systemic, medical, and psychosocial risk factors 
will show up (primary open angle glaucoma suspect). Any patient who shows deterioration of the 
optic nerve status (optic nerve head appearance or visual field) consistent with glaucomatous damage 
should be diagnosed as having primary open angle glaucoma and treatment instigated.  Whilst in the 
past it was considered that for the majority of glaucoma suspect, treatment may not be considered 
necessary, recent data suggest that ocular hypotensive therapy can be effective in delaying or 
preventing the onset of glaucoma in such cases.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Lumigan eye drops is formulated as 0.03% aqueous, sterile, preserved, isotonic, multidose ophthalmic 
solution  using  well-known  excipients.  It  contains  bimatoprost  (0.3  mg/ml)  as  active  substance  and 
benzalkonium chloride (BAC) (0.005%) as preservative. Excipients include sodium chloride, sodium 
diphosphate dibasic heptahydrate, citric acid monohydrate and purified water. 
The  solution  (3  ml)  is  packaged  in  a  5  ml  multiple  dose  blow-moulded  LDPE  bottle  with  a  cap  of 
polystyrene, coloured white by the addition of titanium dioxide to the resin. Container/closure integrity 
has been demonstrated. No deleterious interaction of the  primary packaging  material with bimatoprost 
has been observed 
Active substance 
Bimatoprost  is  a  new  active  substance,  a  synthetic  prostamide,  structurally  related  to  dinoprost 
(prostaglandin F2α). The molecule has 5 chiral centres and “cis-trans” isomerism, the “cis” isomer being 
the selected form. 
is 
Bimatoprost 
(Z)-7-[(1R,  2R,  3R,  5S)-3,5-dihydroxy-2-[(1E,  3S)-3-hydroxy-5-phenyl-1-
pentenyl]cyclopentenyl]-N-ethyl-5-heptenamide. Evidence of structure has been proven by elemental 
analysis,  IR,  UV,  1H-NMR,  13C-NMR,  2D  Cosy-NMR,  2D  HMQC  NMR  and  MS.  X-ray 
crystallography on an intermediate has confirmed the absolute configuration of the four chiral centres 
in the cyclopentane ring. 
2/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Specifications  for  all  starting  materials,  intermediates,  solvents  and  reagents  and  of  isolated 
intermediates  are  provided  and  are  acceptable.  All  in-process  testing  requirements  are  appropriately 
indicated for each step of the process. The specification includes relevant tests and impurity levels in the 
specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
3 validation batches comply with the specification. Stability data support the retest period of 6 months 
when stored in the proposed container at ≤-15°C. 
Other ingredients 
All  excipients  comply  with  PhEur  monographs  where  relevant,  except  sodium  phosphate  dibasic 
heptahydrate, which complies with USP. The microbiological purity of the excipients is generally not 
more than 100 CFU/g except for the pH adjustment by strong acids and strong bases. 
Product development and finished product 
The  preserved formulation used in clinical trials is identical to the composition and strength applied 
for.  The  excipients  chosen  are  commonly  used  in  ophthalmic  products  and  to  minimise  irritation 
physiological pH (7.3) is  chosen. Optimum  pH for stability of the finished product is between  pH  6 
and 8. The active substance stability is good in the buffer system chosen (sodium phosphate and citric 
acid). 
The  strength  0.3  mg/ml  is  chosen  based  on  dose-response  studies  and  because  the  solubility  of 
bimatoprost  in  this  concentration  is  sufficient  to  exclude  a  solubilising  agent.  The  preservative 
benzalkonium chloride (BAC) is used at a concentration of 0.005% and the specifications ensure that 
PhEur criteria A preservative efficacy is met throughout the shelf-life of the product. 
No  manufacturing  overages  are  used.  No  reprocessing  of  bulk  or  finished  product  will  be  applied.  
Excipients  are  added  to  the  vessel  containing  purified  water  one  by  one  followed  by  the  active 
substance.  All  substances  are  dissolved  during  mixing.  The  bulk  product  is  sterilised  by  filtration 
through 0.2 µm sterilising cartridge filter and filled aseptically in a class A environment into bottles 
previously  sterilised  by  validated  process  of  exposure  to  ethylene  oxide.  Equipment  is  sterilised  by 
moist steam autoclaving and steam-in-place where the minimum of F0 is 21 minutes. Reproducibility 
of  the  manufacturing  process  has  been  demonstrated.  The  primary  packaging  is  sterilised  by  use  of 
EtO.  The  EtO  residuals  meet  the  acceptance  criteria  of  <1ppm,  as  recommended  in  the  current 
CPMP/QWP guideline. 
Specifications 
The specification for content of active substance at release is 95-105% of label, and a slightly broader 
specification,  which  does  not  compromise  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  of  the  product,  has  been 
established for the end of shelf-life.  
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The preservative BAC is controlled at release within the limits 90-110% of the stated amount. 
Other  tests  include  pH,  osmolality,  colour,  visual  clarity,  particulate  matter  and  sterility.  All  control 
methods have been validated in a satisfactory way. 
Three  validation  batch  analyses  from  the  manufacturing  site  confirm  satisfactory  uniformity  of  the 
product at release. 
Stability of the product 
Primary registration batches and Primary stability batches: Due to temperature dependent water loss a 
rise  in  assay  bimatoprost,  osmolality  and  preservative  is  seen.  All  results  are  within  the  proposed 
shelf-life specifications. No significant changes are observed at 40°C/20%RH. 
No significant difference is observed for samples stored at 25°C/40%RH and 40°C/20%RH in upright 
or  inverted  position.  For  batches  with  higher  fill  volume  the  %  water  loss  is  reduced  and  likewise 
results on assay, osmolality and preservative content show lower rise in value. No rise in degradation 
products is observed at any storage condition.  
3/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
All  preservative  efficacy  data  remain  constant  through  the  study  periods  at  25°C/40%RH, 
30°C/40%RH  and  40°C/20%  RH.  All  batches  were  subjected  to  an  initial  preservative  efficacy  test 
and subsequent testing occurred at least annually and/or at the end of the study period.  
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability in solution. These results support the (unopened) shelf-life stated in the SPC, i.e. 24 months 
when stored at “no special precautions for storage”. An in-use period of 28 days maximum is normal 
for an ophthalmic product of this type. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Bimatoprost is a synthetic prostamide, structurally related to prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α). It is made by 
replacement of the carboxylic acid group of PGF2α by an electrochemically neutral substituent. As the 
carboxylic acid group is critical for the interaction of the molecule with PGF2α-sensitive receptors (FP 
receptors), bimatoprost does not show any significant pharmacological activity at these receptors. The 
mode  of  action  of  bimatoprost  appears  to  be  similar  to  that  of  PGF2α  1-ethanolamide  (prostamide 
F22α), a naturally occurring substance that is derived from anandamide by cyclooxygenase (COX-2) in 
the prostamide pathway. This pathway leads to the formation of endogenous lipid amides that lower 
IOP. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies  
• 
The pharmacology of bimatoprost has been studied by receptor binding assays, using functional and 
radioligand binding methods. These studies show that bimatoprost exhibits a pharmacological activity 
profile  different  from  that  of  PGF2α  and  other  classical  prostanoid  FP  receptor  agonists  in  that 
bimatoprost does not produce typical FP receptor mediated effects, such as contraction of the human 
uterus and cell proliferation. Bimatoprost also shows no activity at other known prostanoid receptors. 
In vivo ocular pharmacology studies  
• 
Topically  administered  bimatoprost  reduced  the  IOP  in  ocular  normotensive  dogs  and  monkeys.  In 
ocular hypertensive monkeys, bimatoprost was highly effective in reducing IOP as a single dose.  
The  mechanism  of  action  of  bimatoprost  was  studied  in  dogs  and  monkeys.  In  monkeys,  the 
fluorphotometry  showed  that  bimatoprost  did  not  alter  aqueous  humour  inflow  and  that  bimatoprost 
increases  uveoscleral  outflow  by  42%  without  affecting  total  outflow  facility  (a  parameter  of 
conventional,  trabecular  outflow),  and  therefore  bimatoprost  appears  to  decrease  IOP  by  stimulating 
uveoscleral outflow. Similarly, in dogs, bimatoprost did not affect total outflow facility. It is noted that 
in humans bimatoprost also increases uveoscleral outflow, but as this change does not entirely account 
for the IOP decrease, increased conventional outflow facility might act as an additional mechanism. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
To  study  compatibility  of  bimatoprost  with  timolol  in  ocular  formulations,  an  assessment  of  ocular 
discomfort following topical applications to rabbits of isotonic and hypotonic formulations of 0.03% 
bimatoprost-0.5% timolol was made. The isotonic formulation was found to be well tolerated. When 
applying  these  formulations  to  the  eyes  of  dogs,  both  iso-  and  hypotonic  formulations  were  well 
tolerated. It was concluded that adverse effects of using bimatoprost and timolol as adjunctive therapy 
were not anticipated.   
•  General and safety pharmacology programme  
Ocular blood flow 
The  vasomotor  activity  of  bimatoprost  was  examined,  using  human  retinal  tissue  grafted  into  the 
hamster cheek pouch membrane. Bimatoprost did not significantly affect retinal arteriolar diameter. 
4/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In ocular safety studies on rabbits and dogs, bimatoprost and placebo produced transient slight ocular 
discomfort and conjunctival hyperaemia. 
Pupil diameter 
In  cats  and  dogs,  iris  is  constricted  by  bimatoprost,  as  shown  by  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies.  The 
miosis is considered to be species-specific, as monkeys and humans did not show this effect.  
Iridial hyperpigmentation 
A study in cynomolgus monkeys showed that bimatoprost 0.1% given twice daily for one year lead to 
iris  darkening.  The  iris  darkening  was  accompanied  by  increased  melanogenesis.  It  was  interpreted 
that  melanosome  maturation  leads  to  iridial  hyperpigmentation.  With  a  lower  dose  of  0.01%,  there 
were no iris colour changes. One year of topical treatment with Latanoprost (0.005%) or bimatoprost 
(0.03%) in cynomolgus monkeys lead to pronounced iris darkening in the Latanoprost-treated animals. 
Slight iris darkening was observed for all other treatment groups including controls, and was presumed 
to be related to ageing.  
Uterotonic activity 
As opposed to PGF2α and other FP receptor agonists, bimatoprost did not show uterotonic activity in 
either  pregnant or  non-pregnant  human uterus preparations. There was also  no uterotonic activity of 
bimatoprost  in  rat  and  mouse  isolated  uterus,  but  in  rabbit  isolated  uterus,  bimatoprost  had  potent 
contractile activity. 
Activity at human TP receptors 
A  study  was  conducted  to  determine  the  effect  of  bimatoprost  on  contraction  of  the  human  isolated 
umbilical  artery.  The  EC50  value  for  bimatoprost  was  >10000  nM  at  the  10  µM  concentration.  The 
effects of bimatoprost were significantly lower than the effects of PGF2α at the 10 µM concentration. It 
was  concluded  that  bimatoprost  has  minimal  potential  for  evoking  TP  receptor  mediated  events.  TP 
receptors are associated with uterine, cardiovascular and airway smooth muscle. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Cardiovascular effects of bimatoprost were compared to those of PGF2α. In vitro, bimatoprost had only 
very weak relaxing effect (EC50>2000 nM) on precontracted, endothelium intact rabbit jugular vein. 
In vivo, there was a small, transient arterial blood pressure increase (10-12%) and an 8% decreased in 
heart rate in anaesthetised rats given i.v. bimatoprost. At low i.v. doses, bimatoprost had no effects on 
blood  pressure, heart  rate,  electrocardiogram,  or respiration rate  of conscious  dogs. At 10  µg/kg i.v. 
there was a transient mean blood pressure increase. 
Gastrointestinal and renal effects 
At  low  doses,  bimatoprost  had  only  very  low  activity  in  isolated  mouse,  guinea  pig,  chick,  rat  and 
gerbil  digestive  tract  tissue.  However,  at  1  mg/kg,  bimatoprost  significantly  inhibited  the  small 
intestinal  charcoal  transit  by  24.5%.  Similarly,  only  the  high  (1  mg/kg)  dose  of  bimatoprost 
significantly increased urine volume and urinary excretion of electrolytes (Na+ and Ca++) while lower 
doses were devoid of effects. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Ocular absorption 
Ocular  absorption  studies  were  conducted  in  rabbits  and  monkeys.  In  monkeys,  significant 
concentrations of intact bimatoprost were detected in the iris and the ciliary body. AUC values for the 
iris and ciliary body were 19-56 times higher than those of the aqueous humour. Twenty-four hours 
after ocular administration, bimatoprost concentrations in the ciliary body and muscle were still more 
than  5-fold higher than the in vitro EC50  value required for pharmacological effect  (found in the cat 
ciliary  body  and  muscle).  In  another  study  in  monkeys,  significant  concentrations  were  produced  in 
the iris  and ciliary body while systemic concentrations  of  radioactivity were very low after  multiple 
5/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ophthalmic  doses  of  tritiated  bimatoprost.  In  rabbits,  after  a  single  topical  administration  of  tritiated 
bimatoprost,  significant  concentrations  were  produced  in  the  uvea  (iris  and  ciliary  body)  while 
systemic blood and plasma concentrations were very low.   
Systemic absorption 
Ocular  instillation  of  3H-bimatoprost  to  rabbits  and  monkeys  resulted  in  plasma  Cmax  of  total 
radioactivity that were one to three orders of magnitude lower than the ocular tissue concentrations. In 
fasting animals given 4 mg/kg of 0.2% bimatoprost orally, systemic bioavailability of bimatoprost was 
40% in mice, 29% in rats and 3% in monkeys.  
Distribution 
The steady-state volumes of distribution after IV administration to mouse, rat, monkey and man were 
2.4,  6.0,  2.2  and  0.67  l/kg,  respectively.  In  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and  monkey  plasma,  between  63  and 
72%  of  bimatoprost  was  bound  to  plasma  protein.  After  a  single  intravenous  dose  of  tritiated 
bimatoprost,  highest  levels  of  drug-related  material  occurred  in  the  main  excretory  organs 
(gastrointestinal  tract,  liver,  kidney  and  urinary  bladder),  suggesting  that  biliary  excretion  and/or 
intestinal  secretion  may  play  a  role  in  the  disposition  of  bimatoprost.  Drug-derived  material  did  not 
penetrate  the  blood-brain  barrier  or  distribute  extensively  into  the  erythrocytes,  adrenals,  heart, 
pancreas, spleen or thyroid. 
Ocular metabolism 
In  the  rabbit  eye,  but  not  in  the  monkey  or  human  eye,  there  was  an  extensive  metabolism  of  3H-
bimatoprost  to  AGN  191522,  a  potent  impurity  and  Cl-acid  metabolite  of  bimatoprost.  Two  to  six 
metabolites  were  detected  in  various  ocular  tissues  of  the  rabbit.  In  monkeys,  there  was  minimal 
metabolism of bimatoprost to AGN 191522 and to three other minor metabolites.  
Systemic metabolism 
Metabolite profiles of bimatoprost were investigated in blood, urine and faeces following a single i.v. 
administration of tritiated bimatoprost to mice, rats and monkeys. Bimatoprost and AGN 191522 were 
both  detected  in  the  blood  of  all  species  following  intravenous  dosing.  The  major  circulating  drug-
related  component  found  in  mouse,  rat  and  monkey  was  bimatoprost,  while  AGN  191522  was  the 
major component in rabbit blood. The blood, urinary and faecal metabolite profiles obtained following 
i.v. administration of tritiated bimatoprost to rats, monkeys and humans were comparable.  
In vitro metabolism 
The percentage of  3H-bimatoprost that was metabolised by liver slices over 18 hours was 89% in rat 
liver, 84% in male monkey liver, 58% in female monkey liver, 83.2% in dog liver and 77% in female 
human liver. Studies using human liver microsomes and recombinant human P450 isozymes identified 
CYP3A4 as the enzyme responsible for the hydroxylation of bimatoprost. In a one-month study where 
monkeys  were  given  1  mg/kg  bimatoprost  i.v.,  resulting  in  drug  exposures  4000  times  greater  than 
seen  in  humans  after  ophthalmic  administration,  bimatoprost  had  no  significant  effect  on  any  of  the 
hepatic  microsomal  enzyme  activities  (CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2B1/2,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5, CYP4A9/11). In a similar study in rats, an increased activity of UDP-
glucuronosyl  transferase  was  observed  in  female  rats  and  a  marginal  reduction  in  the  rate  of 
testosterone 16β –hydroxylation was found in male rats.  
Elimination 
In  rabbits,  the  ocular  tissue  concentrations  of  intact  bimatoprost  declined  rapidly  after  ophthalmic 
administration. The elimination half-life ranged from 0.74 to 2.3 hours. Elimination half-lives after IV 
administration  of  1  mg/kg  was  0.54  hours  in  mice,  0.26  hours  in  rats,  8.4  hours  in  monkeys  and 
0.77 hours  in  humans.  Mean  blood  clearance  was  12  l/h/kg  in  mice,  9.5  l/h/kg  in  rats,  2.4  l/h/kg  in 
monkeys and 1.5 l/h/kg in humans. Urinary excretion after IV administration of  3H-bimatoprost was 
42%  of  total  radioactivity  in  female  rats  and  27%  in  male  rats,  while  faecal  excretion  was  69%  in 
males  and  49%  in  females.  In  monkeys,  both  males  and  females  had  a  larger  excretion  of  total 
6/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
radioactivity in urine (58-64%) than in faeces (24-31%). In humans administered 3H- bimatoprost IV, 
67% was urinary excreted and 25% was excreted in faeces.   
Toxicology 
Toxicokinetics 
Measurements of systemic exposure to bimatoprost have been conducted in different animal species. 
The Cmax and AUC values of bimatoprost increased proportionally with the administered dose, and the 
steady state blood concentrations were achieved in all repeated dose-toxicology studies. There was no 
drug accumulation in rabbits treated ocularly for 6 months or monkeys treated ocularly for 1 year. 
Single dose toxicity 
After  single  i.p.  dose  of  96  mg/kg  of  bimatoprost  to  mice  there  were  no  significant  findings 
concerning clinical observations, mortality, body weight or gross pathology. Similarly, i.v. doses of up 
to 3  mg/kg produced no adverse effects in  mice. The dose of  3 mg/kg represents a dose 1000 times 
higher than systemic human exposure assuming an ocular dose of one drop BID of 0.1% ophthalmic 
solution is given in humans. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies 
In mice, toxicity of orally administered bimatoprost was assessed in studies of 2 week, 4 weeks and 
13 weeks  duration.  In  the  4-week  study,  the  only  observed  possibly  treatment-related  change  was  a 
tendency toward haemoconcentration. In the 13-week study, medullary lymphoid proliferation in the 
thymus,  acute  inflammatory  cells  in  the  superficial  layers  of  the  vagina  and  increased  numbers  of 
corpora  lutea  were  detected.  The  thymic  changes  had  regressed  after  the  recovery  period,  and  the 
vaginal changes had partially regressed.  
In rats, toxicity of orally administered bimatoprost was evaluated in rats in 2-week studies, 4 weeks, 
13 weeks, and a 1-year study. In the two-week studies, the high dose of 16 mg/kg/day produced drug 
related testicular changes of bilateral degeneration of the testis and increased abnormal germ cells in 
the tubular lumen of the epididymis. An increase in  vacuolisation of the cortical cells in the adrenal 
glands  was  also  present  among  animals  in  all  bimatoprost  treated  groups.  In  the  13-week  study, 
decreased  bodyweight  and  mildly  increased  serum  enzymes  were  observed.  The  changes  reversed 
after the recovery period of 4 weeks. Ovarian weight was increased in females at all dosages, and was 
accompanied by microscopic findings of increased numbers of prominent, vacuolated corpora lutea at 
all  dosages.  The  ovarian  weight  increase  was  reversible.  Statistically  significantly  lower  epididymis 
weights  were  noted  for  males  receiving  16  mg/kg/day.  In  the  one  year  study,  treatment  related 
microscopic pathological findings were cellular vacuolation in corpora lutea of the ovaries observed at 
termination, with partial reversibility at 8 weeks. 
The toxicity of intravenously administered bimatoprost was evaluated in studies of 1, 2 and 4 week’s 
duration  in  rats.  In  a  one-week  study,  there  were  no  treatment-related  deaths.  Clinical  signs  of 
deceased motor activity, dyspnoea, cyanotic tail and soft stool were observed. In the high dose group, 
animals  additionally  showed  signs  of  ataxia,  gasping,  ptosis,  lethargy,  and  piloerection.  Mean  body 
weights  were  decreased  in  the  50  and  100  mg/kg  dose  groups  and  there  were  numerous  changes  in 
blood  chemistry  parameters.  In  the  4  week  study,  vacuolated  corpora  lutea  were  found  in  females. 
Toxicokinetic  measurements  showed  that  bimatoprost  was  rapidly  eliminated  from  blood  and  the 
animals were exposed to steady-state concentrations throughout the study. The AUCde values in the rat 
studies ranged from 2.5 to 4100 folds greater than the values in humans given the clinical regimen.  
The  ocular  studies  in  rabbits  were  of  3  days,  1  month,  and  6  months  duration.  In  these  studies,  the 
main findings were transient slight conjunctival hyperaemia, transient slight ocular discomfort, but no 
systemic or corneal toxicity was observed. In dogs, after topical administration of bimatoprost, slight 
ocular discomfort, transient slight hyperaemia and miosis were observed. Miosis was noted to be an 
expected  dog-specific  pharmacological  effect.  The  transient  ocular  discomfort  and  conjunctival 
hyperaemia observed in some rabbit and dog studies were believed to be connected to more frequent 
7/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
dosing in these cases. Ocular sensitivity additionally appeared to be related to vehicle administration. 
It should be noted that similar ocular effects were not observed in monkeys.  
In  a  52  week  study,  monkeys  were  administered  topical  bimatoprost  once  or  twice  daily.  Increased 
iridial pigmentation was observed in all drug–treated groups at week 13 and during the remainder of 
the study. The incidence of increased pigmentation was associated with the frequency of dosing. The 
increased iridial pigmentation did not reverse after treatment cessation. At week 26 to 35, periocular 
effects,  characterised  by  a  prominent  upper  and/or  lower  sulcus,  resulting  in  a  widening  of  the 
palbebral  fissure  of  the  treated  eye,  were  observed  in  all  drug-treated  groups.  Periocular  effects 
completely resolved by the end of the recovery period. Since iridial pigmentation and widening of the 
palbebral fissure have been observed in monkeys with prostaglandin analogues, including latanoprost, 
these effects are likely related to this pharmacological class. 
When  bimatoprost  was  administered  once  daily  by  i.v.  injection  to  male  and  female  monkeys  for 
4 weeks, no local or systemic adverse effects were observed. In a 17-week i.v. study, similarly to the 
1-year ocular study, a reversible increase in the prominence of the periocular sulci was observed in all 
drug-treated groups. These effects occurred after 9 weeks of treatment. No systemic effects occurred at 
any dose. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats  and  rabbits.  However,  the  rabbit  was 
precluded  as  a  species  to  evaluate  embryo-foetal  developmental  toxicity.  In  mice,  maternal  toxicity 
such as decreased number of pregnancies, abortions or resorptions was seen at doses of 0.3 mg/kg/day 
toxicity 
or  higher.  At 
(0.3 mg/kg/day), the AUCde was 33 times higher than the AUCde in humans given the clinical regimen. 
At  the  embryo/foetal  no-observed-adverse-effect-level  (NOAEL)  of  0.6  mg/kg/day,  the  AUCde  was 
72 times higher than in humans treated with the clinical regimen.  
lowest-observed-adverse-effect-level 
for  maternal 
(LOAEL) 
the 
In  the  studies  in  rats,  as  doses  of  1.0  mg/kg/day  or  higher  produced  abortions,  lower  doses  were 
chosen  in  the  following  studies  for  evaluation  of  dose-response  relationships.  In  the  definitive 
embryo/foetal toxicity study in pregnant female rats, localised alopecia and abortions were observed. 
The  maternal  NOAEL  was  0.3  mg/kg/day.  In  the  perinatal/postnatal  development  study  in  pregnant 
rats, no overt maternal toxicity was observed in any dosage group. At doses of 0.3 mg/kg/day or more, 
gestation and perinatal development was affected, in that gestation length was reduced, there were late 
resorptions and foetal death, postnatal mortality and reduced pup body weight.  
The different reproduction toxic effects seen in rats and the lack of foetuses for evaluation in rabbits 
may be related to the exaggerated pharmacological effect of bimatoprost. Prostaglandin analogues are 
known to have profound effects on the female reproductive system of  mammals.  However, in vitro 
studies  showed  that  bimatoprost  does  not  act  through  the  PGF2α-sensitive  (FP)  receptor.    In  vitro 
studies also showed that where rabbit isolated uteri were extremely sensitive to bimatoprost, isolated 
human  and  rodent  myometrium  were  found  to  be  unresponsive  to  bimatoprost,  indicating  that 
bimatoprost sensitive receptors do not mediate uterine contractions in rodents and humans.  
However,  the  metabolite  17-phenyl  trinor  PGF2α  (AGN  191522)  does  activate  the  classical  FP 
receptor and induces contractions in isolated mouse, rat, and rabbit uteri and in human myometrium. 
The metabolite is found in considerable levels in mice, rats and rabbits. It is argued that humans do not 
produce this metabolite following ocular dosing, and therefore the reproduction toxicity risk would be 
negligible in humans treated ocularly. In the clinical trials, metabolism to 17-phenyl trinor PGF2α was 
not  detected  in  women  treated  ocularly  with  bimatoprost  for  14  days,  and  bimatoprost  incubated  in 
human blood also did not convert to this metabolite. It might therefore be that bimatoprost poses no 
abortion risk in humans. The abortions seen in mice and rat studies may either reflect the non-selective 
activation  of  FP  receptors  because  of  high  doses  given  or  the  selective  activation  by  the  metabolite 
17-phenyl trinor PGF2α. 
Genotoxicity 
The  standard  battery  of  genotoxicity  tests  showed  no  evidence  of  genotoxic  potential.  Bacterial 
reverse mutation assays in S. typhimurium and E. coli were negative. Similarly, the mouse lymphoma 
assay,  mouse  micronucleus  assay  as  well  as  the  mouse  bone  marrow  micronucleus  test  all  gave 
8/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
negative results. The results of these in vitro and in vivo mutagenicity tests indicate that bimatoprost is 
not genotoxic. 
Immunotoxicity studies 
The  potential  antigenicity  of  bimatoprost  was  evaluated  with  a  passive  cutaneous  anaphylaxis  assay 
(PCA) in mice, rats and guinea pigs and a systemic anaphylaxis assay in guinea pigs. The potential for 
a  delayed  dermal  contact  hypersensitivity  response  to  bimatoprost  was  examined  in  guinea  pigs. 
Bimatoprost  when  administered  topically  or  intradermally  did  not  elicit  a  dermal  sensitisation 
response. The studies indicate that skin contact with bimatoprost should not induce a hypersensitivity 
response. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Risk  characterisation  calculations  have  been  conducted,  showing  that  the  Predicted  Environmental 
Concentration (PEC) of bimatoprost falls below the threshold values for water, soil and grassland. On 
the background of the calculations, it was considered that the environmental impact of the PEC’s will 
be insignificant associated with use and disposal of the product by the users. 
Post authorisation studies 
The MAH submitted the results of two 104-day carcinogenicity studies, one in rats and one in mice, as 
part of the application for first line therapy.  
In  both  mice  and  rats,  systemic  absorption  and  exposure  was  demonstrated  at  oral  dosing  in  the 
carcinogenicity studies. Exposure margins when compared to human dosing were large.  
The overall conclusion of the carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice was that there was no evidence 
of a tumorigenic potential of bimatoprost and section 5.3 “Preclinical safety data” of the Summary of 
Product Characteristics was updated accordingly.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Bimatoprost  is  a  synthetic  prostamide,  structurally  related  to  prostaglandin  F2α  (PGF2α).  Despite  its 
chemical  similarity,  bimatoprost  exhibits  a  pharmacological  profile  different  from 
that  of 
prostaglandin  F2α.  Hence,  it  does  not  produce  pharmacological  effects  typical  of  those  mediated 
through prostanoid receptors, e.g. the FP receptor. The lack of prostanoid activity has been explained 
by  the  substitution  of  the  carboxylic  group  in  PGF2α  with  an  electrochemically  neutral  chemical 
substituent.  Instead,  bimatoprost  appears  to  mimic  the  actions  of  a  naturally  occurring  substance, 
prostamide  F2α.  This  agent  is  derived  from  anandamide  involving  the  cyclooxygenase  2  (COX-2) 
enzyme. The pathway is believed to result in biosynthesis of lipid amides that lower the IOP and can 
be viewed as acting parallel to the arachidonic acid cascade leading to synthesis of prostaglandins. 
Bimatoprost  reduces  IOP  by  increasing  uveoscleral  and  trabecular  outflow.  It  is  intended  for  ocular 
administration as eye drops,  solution 0.3  mg/ml. The recommended dose is one drop in the affected 
eye(s)  once  daily.  The  initial  approved  indication  read:  “Lumigan  is  indicated  for  the  reduction  of 
elevated IOP in chronic open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension as 1. monotherapy in patients: 
insufficiently  responsive  to  first-line  therapy,  intolerant  or  contraindicated  to  first  line  therapy,  
2. adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers”. 
Following  a  Type  II  variation,  the  indication  was  amended  to  first-line  and  reads  as  follows: 
Reduction  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  chronic  open-angle  glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension 
(as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers). 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
9/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Mechanism of action 
192024-011:  The  mechanism  of  action  of  bimatoprost  in  terms  of  ocular  hypotensive  effect  was 
studied  in  a  randomised,  double-blind  placebo  controlled  paired  comparison  in  healthy  volunteers. 
Bimatoprost  0.3%  ophthalmic  solution,  and  vehicle  in  the  contralateral  eye,  was  administered  once 
daily in the evening for 3 days. The study population included 27 healthy volunteers with an IOP at 
prestudy visit greater than or equal to 12 mmHg and less than or equal to 21 mmHg in both eyes and 
less  than  2  mmHg  asymmetry  in  the  two  eyes.  IOP  was  measured  at  regular  intervals.    In  order  to 
evaluate  the  mode  of  action  of  this  ophthalmic  preparation,  aqueous  humour  flow,  tonographic 
outflow resistance and apparent outflow resistance (IOP/aqueous humour flow) were measured.  
The mean baseline IOPs were similar between the eyes assigned to receive bimatoprost and the eyes 
assigned  to  receive  vehicle  (13.8  and  13.7  mmHg,  respectively).    On  day  4,  the  mean  IOP  was 
decreased in the bimatoprost treated eyes compared to the vehicle treated eyes. Postdosing, IOP was 
statistically  significantly  lower  (p<0.001)  in  the  bimatoprost–treated  eyes  than  in  the  vehicle-treated 
eyes. On day 3, the daytime aqueous humour flow was higher in the bimatoprost treated eyes than in 
the  vehicle-treated  eyes.  On  day  4,  the  night-time  aqueous  humour  flow  was  also  higher  in  the 
bimatoprost  treated eyes compared  to the  vehicle-treated eyes. On  day  3,  mean  tonographic outflow 
resistance was lower in the bimatoprost-treated eyes than in the vehicle-treated eyes. On day 3, mean 
apparent outflow resistance was lower in the bimatoprost-treated eyes than in the vehicle-treated eyes. 
On  day  4,  mean  apparent  outflow  resistance  was  still  significantly  lower  in  the  bimatoprost  treated 
eyes than in the vehicle-treated eyes. 
From these results it can be concluded that the mechanism of action of bimatoprost appears to be that 
of  outflow  enhancement.  Tonographic  data  and  calculated  values  of  apparent  outflow  resistance 
demonstrated  a  significant  decrease,  approximately  30-35%,  in  outflow  resistance  in  bimatoprost-
treated  as  compared  to  the  vehicle-treated  eyes.  The  reduction  of  apparent  outflow  resistance,  a 
parameter that can be measured reliably, is typical of ocular hypotensive drugs that act on the ocular 
outflow rather than on the ocular inflow system.  The ocular hypotensive effect of bimatoprost appears 
to  result  from  an  enhancement  of  both  major  routes  of  aqueous  humour  outflow,  namely  trabecular 
meshwork and the pressure-insensitive uveoscleral outflow routes. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
Four human pharmacokinetic studies and additional therapeutic drug monitoring in the two phase III 
monotherapy  studies  had  been  conducted  by  the  applicant  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
bimatoprost  in  either  healthy  subjects  or  patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.    In  these 
studies, a total of 81 healthy, normal subjects and 179 patients have been exposed to bimatoprost. The 
studies  are:  A  single  dose  intravenous  study  determining  the  pharmacokinetics  and  mass  balance  of 
the 
radiolabelled  bimatoprost 
pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  bimatoprost  following  once  and  twice  daily  ocular  dosing  for  14  days 
(studies  192024-006, 192024-007), a  multiple dose study comparing the pharmacokinetic profiles of 
bimatoprost in elderly (≥ 65 years) versus the young subjects after once daily ocular dosing for 7 days 
(study 192024-012), and two therapeutic drug monitoring studies, as part of the monotherapy Phase III 
trials  (studies  192024-008,  192024-009),  characterising  the  systemic  exposure  of  bimatoprost  in 
patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.   
two  multiple  dose  studies  describing 
(study  192024-005), 
Validated,  highly  sensitive,  and  selective 
liquid  chromatography-tandem  mass  spectrometry 
(LC-MS/MS)  methods  were  used  to  determine  bimatoprost  and  AGN  191522  concentrations  in  the 
blood for human pharmacokinetic studies (Reports PK-00-004 and PK-98-007).   
In addition, in vitro studies were conducted to characterise ocular tissue penetration and metabolism of 
bimatoprost. Nearly all of the distribution and metabolism studies were conducted using radiolabelled 
material,  while  the  absorption  studies  utilised  controlled  and  traceable  product  formulations  for 
dosing, and LC-MS/MS detection for determination of drug concentrations in blood and plasma 
Absorption 
10/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Bimatoprost penetrates the human cornea and sclera well in vitro. After one drop of 0.03% ophthalmic 
solution  was  administered  once  daily  to  both  eyes  of  15  healthy  subjects  for  14  days,  blood 
bimatoprost concentrations were below the lower limit of quantitation (0.025 ng/ml) in most subjects 
within 1 to 1.5 hours after dosing.  Mean bimatoprost Cmax values were similar on days 7 and 14.  The 
mean AUC0-24 hr values were also similar on days 7 and 14, indicating that a steady systemic exposure 
to bimatoprost had been reached during the first week of ocular dosing (Study 192024-006, report PK-
98-119). 
After  one  drop  of  0.03%  ophthalmic  solution  was  applied  twice  daily  to  both  eyes  of  15  healthy 
subjects for 14 days, blood concentrations of bimatoprost were below the lower limit of quantitation 
within 2 to 3 hours after dosing. The mean Cmax and AUC0-12  hr values were similar on days 7 and 14 
indicating that, as with once daily dosing, a steady systemic exposure to bimatoprost had been reached 
during the first week of ocular dosing.  The mean Cmax values following the morning dose were 20 to 
60% higher than those following the evening dose (Study 192024-007, report PK-99-040).  
The effect of age on systemic exposure was investigated after ophthalmic doses of bimatoprost 0.03% 
were applied twice daily to the eyes of 22 young and 23 elderly subjects for 7 days.  The mean AUC0-
24  hr  value  of  0.0634 ng·hr/ml  in  elderly  subjects  was  statistically  significantly  higher  than  that  of 
0.0218 ng·hr/ml in young subjects, suggesting the existence of an age effect.  However, this finding is 
not  considered  clinically  relevant,  as  in  both  the  elderly  and  the  young  Cmax  and  AUC0-t  values  for 
days 1 and 7 were not statistically different, indicating that there was no accumulation of bimatoprost 
in the blood over time. Furthermore, bimatoprost exhibits similar safety and efficacy profiles in both 
the  young  and  elderly  populations  without  any  notable  differences  in  IOP-lowering  effects  (Study 
192024-012, report PK-00-065).  
The  blood  concentrations  of  bimatoprost  from  patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  in  the 
two monotherapy Phase III safety and efficacy studies were measured at selected sites. Seventy-four 
patients  from  192024-008  study  and  105  patients  from  192024-009  study  were  subject  to 
pharmacokinetic  evaluation.  Bimatoprost  blood  concentrations  were  similar  to  those  observed  in 
normal, healthy subjects and the expert comments that there was no systemic drug accumulation seen 
over  time  (Study  192024-008,  192024-009,  reports  PK-00-119  and  PK-00-120).  The  AGN  191522 
(the  potentially  pharmacologically  active  C-1  acid  metabolite  of  bimatoprost)  was  typically  not 
measurable in blood samples from these studies. 
Distribution 
Bimatoprost is moderately distributed into body tissues with a steady-state volume of distribution of 
0.67  L/kg.    In  human  blood,  bimatoprost  resides  mainly  in  the  plasma  (Study  192024-005,  report 
PK-99-001).  The plasma protein binding of bimatoprost is approximately 88% (Report PK-99-121). 
Extent of  melanin binding was relatively  moderate.  The  in  vitro  binding  of  bimatoprost  to  synthetic 
melanin was ~20% at concentrations of 0.2 – 100 µg/mL.  The overall extent of melanin binding was 
not  dependent  on  concentration,  and  the  binding  was  reversible  (Report  PK-99-045).  Extent  of 
melanin binding was relatively low. 
Metabolism 
following  conjunctival  dosing. 
Bimatoprost  is  not  extensively  metabolised  before  it  reaches  the  systemic  circulation  (Report 
BIO-95-087)  and  it  is  the  major  circulating  species  in  the  blood  once  it  reaches  the  systemic 
circulation 
then  undergoes  glucuronidation, 
hydroxylation,  N-deethylation  and  deamidation  to  form  a  diverse  variety  of  metabolites.    The 
glucuronide conjugates of bimatoprost are the most abundant metabolite excreted in urine and faeces.  
Due  to  extremely  low  drug  systemic  concentrations  of  bimatoprost  (less  than  0.2  ng/mL)  following 
ocular  dosing,  no  systemic  drug-drug  interactions  are  anticipated  (Reports  PK-95-013,  PK-97-004, 
PK-99-037, PK-99-113 and PK-99-047).  
  Bimatoprost 
Excretion  
Following an intravenous dose of radiolabelled bimatoprost (3.12 µg/kg) to six healthy subjects, the 
maximum  blood  concentration  of  total  radioactivity  was  14.5  ng-eq/mL.  Total  radioactivity  was 
eliminated  from  the  body  with  a  short  half-life  of  1.74  hours.    The  blood  concentration  of  intact 
11/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
bimatoprost  was  12.2  ng/mL  at  maximum  and  declined  rapidly  with  an  elimination  half-life  of 
0.771 hr. Blood concentrations of AGN 191522, the C-1 acid metabolite, were much lower than those 
of  bimatoprost  with  the  peak  concentration  of  0.12  ng/mL.    The  total  blood  clearance  (Clb)  of 
unchanged bimatoprost was 1.50 L/hr/kg (Study 192024-005, report PK-99-001). Sixty-seven percent 
of the administered dose of bimatoprost was excreted in the urine with only a small fraction excreted 
as unchanged drug.  Twenty-five percent of the dose was recovered in faeces of which 15-40% was 
eliminated  as  unchanged  drug  (Study  192024-005,  report  PK-99-001).  The  renal  clearance  of 
bimatoprost has not been determined. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
In vivo drug-drug interaction studies in animals or in humans have not been performed. This could be 
considered  acceptable  because  extremely  low  drug  concentration  of  the  parent  drug  (less  than 
0.2 ng/mL)  was  observed  in  the  systemic  circulation  in  humans  following  multiple  ocular  dosing  of 
the  0.03%  solution.    AGN  191522  (the  C1  acid  metabolite)  concentration  was  typically  not 
measurable and consequently, it is unlikely that blood concentrations of bimatoprost or AGN 191522 
would  be  increased  to  clinically  relevant  levels.    Secondly,  multiple  enzymes  and  pathways  are 
involved  in  the  metabolism  of  bimatoprost  rather  than  a  single  major  one  and  the  possibility  for  a 
clinically significant drug-drug interaction to take place is therefore very small. This conclusion could 
be supported by the lack of drug effects on hepatic drug metabolising enzymes in rats and monkeys 
following one month of i.v. administration. 
Clinical efficacy 
The clinical trials were performed according the Code of Federal Regulations and the relevant Good 
Clinical Practice Guidelines and the studies were performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose response studies 
Four studies (192024-001, -002, -003, -004) were conducted. The study populations were similar and 
included patients with open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension, with an IOP at 8 a.m. ≥23 to ≤34 
mmHg. 
-001:  In  this  study  different  concentrations  of  non-preserved  bimatoprost  0.01%,  0.03%  and  0.1%, 
were compared to timolol 0.5% and vehicle, all in a bid regimen. Study drugs were instilled for  5½ 
days and the effect was evaluated on days 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7. A total of 60 patients with a mean age 
of  59.6  years  (31-79)  with  a  M:F  ratio  of  20:40  were  studied.  Baseline  IOP's  at  H0  were  similar: 
24.25-27.79  mmHg.  All  active  groups  had  a  statistically  significant  mean  decrease  compared  to 
baseline at all hours (0, 1, 2, 4, 6). The 0.03% and the 0.1% groups had a greater percentage decrease 
than timolol, and a duration of 24 hours of the effect was indicated.  
-002: In this study bimatoprost non-preserved 0.003%, 0.01%, 0.03% qd in the evening for 3 weeks, 
followed  by  bid  for  one  week,  and  vehicle,  and  timolol  0.5%  bid  was  studied  in  a  population  of 
100 patients.  The  mean  age  was  59.9  years  (37-90)  with  the  M:F  of  46:54.  IOP  was  evaluated  pre-
study, day 0, 3, 7, 14, 21, 23, 28, and 30. The values H0, H4, H8, H12, H14 were evaluated on days 0, 
21, and 28. On day 14 H0, H8, and H12 values were evaluated. For the diurnal observations at day 21 
(end of qd dosing), at all timepoints 0.03% had greater effect than the other bimatoprost groups, and 
this  group  had  a  statistically  significantly  greater  mean  decrease  than  timolol.  For  the  diurnal 
observations  at  day  28  (end  of  bid  dosing),  the  results  are  very  similar  to  those  at  day  21.  The 
hypotensive effect of 0.01% and 0.03% qd was greater than with timolol 0.5% and with vehicle. 
-003: The efficacy of preserved bimatoprost 0.03% versus vehicle was studied in a qd morning dose 
regimen of one months duration. A number of 32 patients with a mean age of 57.5 years (27-83) and a 
M:F ratio of 10:22 were included. IOP evaluation took place at day 0, 1, 14, 28 and 29. The baseline 
IOP was similar: 21.1 mmHg in the bimatoprost group and 24.9 mmHg in the vehicle group. It could 
be  concluded  that  the  mean  H0  decrease  in  IOP  from  baseline  was  statistically  significant  in  both 
bimatoprost  0.03%  and  the  vehicle  group.  A  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  active 
12/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group  and  the  vehicle  group  was  obtained  at  day  14  and  29,  but  not  on  day  28.  Mean  diurnal  IOP 
decrease was significantly greater with bimatoprost 0.03% than with vehicle at H4 and H8, but not at 
H0 and H12 on day 28. 
-004:  In  this  study  preserved  (P)  bimatoprost  0.03%,  non-preserved  (NP)  bimatoprost  0.03%,  AGN 
0.06%  (another  IOP  decreasing  compound),  latanoprost  0.005%  and  vehicle  were  studied  in  a  qd 
evening dosing regimen for one month. A number of 106 patients with a mean age of 65.6 years (41-
85), and a M:F ratio of 41:65 was studied. Determination of IOP was performed pre-study at day 0, 
14, and 29. IOP at baseline was similar in the study groups: 24.7-25.9 mmHg. At day 29 the difference 
in  decrease  in  IOP  at  H0  was  statistically  significant  between  all  active  groups  and  vehicle;  no 
statistical  significance  between  the  active  groups  was  found.  It  could  be  concluded  that  the  IOP 
decreasing effect of both P and NP bimatoprost 0.03% and latanoprost, qd in an evening dose regimen 
was clinically and statistically significantly superior to vehicle. No statistically significant difference 
between the active groups was observed. 
Main studies  
The  phase  3  clinical  programme  included  2  pivotal  trials  with  identical  protocols,  192024-008  and 
192024-009, in which bimatoprost 0.03% in monotherapy was compared to timolol 0.5%. Bimatoprost 
was  applied  once,  in  the  evening,  or  twice  daily,  and  timolol  was  applied  in  a  twice  daily  regimen.  
The initial dossier provided data from the first 6 months of these planned 12 months studies. In 2 other 
pivotal studies bimatoprost 0.03% was administered adjunctively to a beta-blocker and was compared 
to  bimatoprost  vehicle/beta-blocker:  Study  192024-502,  and  to  latanoprost  0.005%/beta-blocker: 
Study  192024-501,  respectively.  The  two  adjunctive  studies  were  both  of  3  months  duration,  and 
12 months data were subsequently provided for the -501 study. A once and a twice daily bimatoprost 
0.03%  regimen  were  compared  to  vehicle,  in  combination  with  any  beta-blocker  in  a  twice  daily 
regimen.  Bimatoprost  qd  or  bid  was  compared  to  latanoprost  qd  (the  approved  posology),  both  in 
conjunction  with  any  beta-blocker  applied  bid  As  part  of  the  Response  to  the  List  of  Questions, 
12 months data for the monotherapy studies and 12 months data for the adjunctive therapy study (502) 
were submitted, as well as two new studies. 
STUDY 192024-008 
Description of the study 
Multicentre, double-masked, randomised, parallel, three month study (with treatment extended to one 
year) of the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution administered once daily or 
twice daily compared with timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution administered twice daily in subjects with 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 
The diagnoses of the patients were ocular hypertension, chronic open-angle glaucoma, chronic angle–
closure  glaucoma  with  patient  iridotomy,  pseudoexfoliative  glaucoma,  or  pigmentary  glaucoma, 
requiring bilateral treatment. The inclusion criteria were patients aged more than or equal to 21 years, 
day 0 (post-washout) intraocular pressure (IOP) more than or equal to 22 mmHg to less than or equal 
to 34 mmHg in each eye by applanation tonometry and best-corrected visual acuity (VA) more than or 
equal  to  20/100  in  each  eye.  Mean  change  from  baseline  IOP  was  the  primary  efficacy  variable. 
Patient satisfactory questionnaire and clinical success evaluation were also evaluated. 
13/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
The data from the worse eye were analysed in terms of observed values and changes from baseline at 
each follow-up visit. Intent-to-treat (ITT) with last observation carried forward (LOCF) was used for 
the analysis of IOP.  All randomised patients were included and, for those patients who discontinued 
prior to the month 6 visit for any reason, their last observed data was carried forward in the analysis to 
subsequent timepoints.  LOCF was also applied to patients who continued in the study but missed the 
month 6  visit.    Missing  data  between  visits  were  not  imputed.    A  per  protocol  analysis  on  observed 
cases was also  performed  for IOP.   Only patients who  met the entry  criteria, had no  major protocol 
violations,  received  study medication,  had  at  least  1 follow-up  visit,  and  visits  within  specified  time 
windows were included in this analysis. 
Diurnal  IOP  was  measured  at  each  visit  (ideally  between  7:30 AM  and  8:30 AM  but  7:00 AM  to 
9:00 AM  was  acceptable),  and  at  2 and  8 hours  after  hour 0.  A  strategy  of  combined  tests  of 
non-inferiority and statistical superiority was employed.  For each comparison of the differences in the 
IOP  reduction  from  baseline  between  2 treatment  groups,  a  δ=1.5  mmHg  was  used  as  the  non-
inferiority  margin.  In  addition,  within  each  treatment  group,  mean  IOP  changes  from  baseline  were 
analysed using paired t-tests. 
RESULTS 
Study  populations/accountability of patients  
The  population  consisted  of  602  subjects.  The  age  range  for  the  ITT  population  was  from  22  to 
90 years with fewer males (46%) than female subjects (54%).  50% of the population had a primary 
diagnosis  of  open-angle  glaucoma,  47%  of  ocular  hypertension  and  3%  were  mixed  (ocular 
hypertension  in  one  eye  and  open-angle  glaucoma  in  the  other).  The  population  was  primarily 
Caucasian (76.7%). The most common iris colours were brown (36.9%) and blue (24.6%). There were 
no  statistically  significant  differences  among  the  3 treatment  groups  with  regard  to  demographics  or 
baseline characteristics. 
There were 602 patients enrolled in the study, 240 patients randomised to bimatoprost qd, 240 were 
also randomised to bimatoprost bid and 122 were randomised to timolol. In the ITT analysis 96.0% of 
patients  completed  2  weeks  of  treatment,  93.9%  of  patients  completed  6 weeks,  88.7%  of  patients 
completed  3 months,  and  85.7%  (535/596)  completed  6  months.  The  most  frequent  reason  for 
discontinuation of the study up to month 6 was adverse events (11.1%).  Only 8 patients discontinued 
up to month 6 due to lack of efficacy: 0% patients in the bimatoprost qd group, 2.5% patients in the 
bimatoprost bid, and 1.6% patients in the timolol group. Only data from the worse eye was analysed, 
the worse eye being defined as that eye with the greater IOP at baseline or, if the IOP was equal in 
both eyes, the right eye.   
Efficacy results 
Data  on  6  months  of  treatment  was  initially  provided.  There  were  no  differences  with  respect  to 
baseline  IOP  among  the  three  groups.    At  the  primary  endpoint,  the  mean  change  from  baseline  to 
hour 0 of month 6 was 7.88 mmHg for those patients receiving bimatoprost 0.03% qd, 7.00 mmHg for 
those receiving bimatoprost 0.03% bid and 6.27 mmHg in the timolol group.  The bimatoprost once 
daily  results  were  superior  to  those  achieved  by  the  timolol  group  (p<0.001)  whilst  the  bimatoprost 
0.03%  twice  daily  was  non-inferior  to  timolol.  In  addition,  the  IOP  lowering  seen  with  once  daily 
dosing group was superior to the twice  daily dosing  group  at the  primary endpoint.   These  analyses 
gave the same results for both the ITT population and the Per Protocol (PP) population. 
Overall, at month 6, the mean decreases from baseline in IOP at hours 0, 2 and 8 in patients treated 
with  bimatoprost  once  daily  in  the  ITT  population  ranged  from  6.88  to  7.88  mmHg.  These  were 
significantly  (p<0.001)  greater  than  those  achieved  in  patients  treated  with  timolol  (4.17  to 
6.27 mmHg). The twice daily bimatoprost results were superior to the timolol results at month 6 only 
at  hour  8  (p<0.007)  and  non-inferior  at  the  other  two  time  points  hours  0  and  2.  Efficacy  remained 
consistent  at  all  timepoints  evaluated.  For  the  bimatoprost  once  daily  group,  mean  decreases  from 
baseline at hours 0, 2 and 8 were superior to timolol (p<0.001) at all visits with the twice daily dosing 
14/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
results being non-inferior to timolol results at all visits. Again, the PP population results were similar 
to those seen with the ITT population. 
STUDY 192024-009 
Description of the study 
Multicentre, double-masked, randomised, parallel, three month study (with treatment extended to one 
year) of the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution administered once daily or 
twice daily compared with timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution administered twice daily in subjects with 
glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  the  same  as  for  study 
192024-008. Mean change from  baseline IOP was the primary efficacy variable. Patient satisfactory 
questionnaire  and  clinical  success  evaluation  were  also  evaluated.  Safety  measures  and  statistical 
analysis were the same as in study 008. 
RESULTS 
Study  populations/accountability of patients  
The  population  consisted  of  596  subjects.  The  age  range  for  the  ITT  population  was  from  26  to 
92 years with fewer males (44%) than female subjects (56%).  62.6% of the population had a primary 
diagnosis of open-angle glaucoma, 36.6% of ocular hypertension and only 0.8% were mixed (ocular 
hypertension in one eye and chronic glaucoma in the other). The population was primarily Caucasian 
(74.7%).    The  most  common  iris  colours  were  brown  (35.9%)  and  blue  (22.0%).  There  were  no 
statistically  significant  differences  among  the  3 treatment  groups  with  regard  to  demographics  or 
baseline characteristics. 
Of the enrolled patients 234 were randomised to bimatoprost qd, 243 were randomised to bimatoprost 
bid, and 119 were randomised to timolol.  In the ITT analysis, 96.5% of patients completed 2 weeks of 
treatment,  94.5%  of  patients  completed  6 weeks,  92.1%  of  patients  completed  3 months,  and  89.8% 
(535/596)  completed  6  months.    The  most  frequent  reason  for  discontinuation  of  the  study  up  to 
month 6  was  adverse  events  (5.9%).    Only  9 patients  discontinued  up  to  month 6  due  to  lack  of 
efficacy: 2 (0.9%) patients in the bimatoprost qd group, 3 (1.2%) patients in the bimatoprost bid, and 4 
(3.4%) patients in the timolol group. 
Efficacy results 
Data  on  6  months  of  treatment  was  initially  provided.  There  were  no  differences  with  respect  to 
baseline  IOP  among  the  three  groups.  At  the  primary  endpoint,  the  mean  change  from  baseline  at 
hour 0 of month 6 was 8.69 mmHg for those patients receiving bimatoprost 0.03% qd, 7.30 mmHg for 
those  receiving  bimatoprost  0.03%  bid  and  6.63  mmHg  in  the  timolol  group.  As  for  the  preceding 
study the bimatoprost once daily results were superior to those achieved by the timolol group with the 
bimatoprost  0.03%  twice  daily  being  non-inferior  to  timolol.  As  with  the  previous  study,  the  IOP 
lowering seen with once daily bimatoprost dosing group was superior to the twice daily dosing group 
at  the  primary  endpoint.  These  analyses  were  the  same  for  both  the  ITT  population  and  the  PP 
population.  Overall,  at  month  6,  the  mean  decreases  from  baseline  in  IOP  at  hours  0,  2  and  8  in 
patients treated with bimatoprost once  daily in the ITT population ranged from 7.14 to  8.69 mmHg. 
These were significantly (p<0.001) greater than those achieved in patients treated with timolol (4.96 to 
6.63 mmHg). The twice-daily bimatoprost results were superior to results achieved with timolol only 
at  hour  8  and  non-inferior  at  the  other  two  time  points.  Efficacy  again  remained  consistent  at  all 
timepoints evaluated. For the bimatoprost once daily group, mean decreases from baseline at hours 0, 
2 and 8 were superior to timolol at all visits with the twice daily dosing results showing superiority to 
timolol at 8 of the 12 time points measured in the study. Again, the PP population results were similar 
to those seen with the ITT population. 
STUDY 192924-008 AND -009 12 MONTH DATA 
The  12-months  data  from  both  study  008  and  009  (submitted  as  part  of  the  response  to  List  of 
Questions) confirm a consistent IOP-lowering effect with bimatoprost 0.03% eye drops qd in patients 
15/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
with chronic open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. In comparison with timolol 0.5% eye drops 
bid bimatoprost qd was superior at all visits at all measured timepoints (H0, H2 and H8, the number of 
H12  values  was  too  small  for  statistically  meaningful  comparison).  The  number  and  percentage  of 
patients who obtain the clinically relevant IOP at or below 17 mmHg at 8 a.m. (=12 hours post dose) is 
consistently greater with bimatoprost qd than with timolol. Furthermore, the results confirm the choice 
of the once daily dosing regimen with bimatoprost 0.03% as appropriate. 
STUDIES 192924-010 AND –016 
In addition to the above-mentioned, pivotal trials, the company has submitted (as part of the response 
to List of Questions) two new studies: 
Study 010: This was an investigator-masked, randomised, multi-centre, parallel group comparison of 
bimatoprost  0.03%  and  latanoprost  0.005%  applied  once  daily  for  3  months  in  patients  with  open 
angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  The  study  demonstrated  that  the  IOP  decreasing  effect  of 
bimatoprost was non-inferior to that of latanoprost at all measured time points through the 3 months 
treatment  period.  The  proportion  of  patients  who  achieved  an  hour  0  IOP  of  less  than  or  equal  to 
17 mmHg was at each visit greater with bimatoprost than with the comparator. This parameter was not 
defined prior to the study, but is clinically relevant. 
Study 016: This was a randomised, investigator-masked parallel group comparison of the safety and 
24-diurnal  efficacy  of  bimatoprost  0.03%,  timolol  gel  0.5%  and  latanoprost  0.005%,  applied  once 
daily. For the diurnal control of IOP bimatoprost administered in the evening was generally superior to 
a  timolol  gel  preparation  administered  in  the  morning,  and,  with  few  exceptions,  non-inferior  to 
latanoprost, administered in the evening in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension 
in a one month study. 
Phase III-Adjunctive studies  
Two phase III studies have been performed to investigate bimatoprost 0.03% as adjunctive therapy to 
beta-blockers  in  patients  not  adequately  controlled  on  topical  beta-blockers.  A  total  of  722  patients 
were enrolled of whom 246 patients instilled bimatoprost 0.03% qd, 243 patients instilled bimatoprost 
0.03%  bid,  138 patients  instilled  latanoprost  0.005%  qd,  and  95  patients  instilled  vehicle  bid,  each 
adjunctively with a topical beta-blocker bid. The inclusion and exclusion criteria for each study were 
comparable to those employed in the monotherapy programme.  
Study 192024-501 
Description of the study 
Multicentre,  investigator-masked,  randomised,  parallel-group  design  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution administered to each eye once daily in the evening 
or twice daily compared with latanoprost 0.005% ophthalmic solution administered to each eye once 
daily  in the evening.  The  study  medications were  given  adjunctively with a topical beta-blocker bid 
for 3 months.  The inclusion criteria were adult patients diagnosed with ocular hypertension, chronic 
open-angle  glaucoma,  chronic  angle-closure  glaucoma  with  a  patent  iridotomy,  pseudoexfoliative 
glaucoma,  or  pigmentary  glaucoma,  investigator  masked  requiring  bilateral  treatment  and  with  an 
elevated IOP inadequately controlled on beta-blocker alone. The exclusion criteria were comparable to 
those employed in the monotherapy studies but in this case the patients wearing contact lenses were 
excluded  since  use  of  all  contact  lenses  is  contraindicated  for  latanoprost.  IOP  was  the  primary 
efficacy variable. The primary endpoint was change from baseline IOP at hour 0, month 3. 
Statistical analysis 
The statistical plan clearly stated that all other timepoints would be analysed and would contribute to 
the  final  product  evaluation.  As  in  the  two  monotherapy  studies  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  with  last 
observation carried forward (LOCF) was used for the analysis of IOP. All randomised patients were 
included, and last observed data was carried forward in the analysis to subsequent timepoints for the 
16/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who for any reason discontinued prior to the month 3 visit. Only patients who met the entry 
criteria,  had  no  major  protocol  violations,  received  study  medication,  had  at  least  1 follow-up  visit, 
and visits within specified time windows were included in this analysis. Diurnal IOP was measured at 
each visit (ideally between 08:30 AM and 10:30 AM), and at 2 and 8 hours after hour 0. A strategy of 
combined  tests  of  non-inferiority  and  superiority  was  employed.  For  each  comparison  of  the 
differences in the IOP reduction from baseline between 2 treatment groups, δ=1.5 mmHg was used as 
the  non-inferiority  margin.  A  hierarchical  procedure  was  used  for  the  pairwise  comparisons.  In 
addition,  within  each  treatment  group,  mean  IOP  changes  from  baseline  were  analysed  using  paired 
t-tests. 
RESULTS 
Study  populations/accountability of patients  
The  population  consisted  of  437  subjects.  The  age  range  for  the  ITT  population  was  from  22  to 
90 years with fewer males (40%) than female subjects (60%).  85% of the population had a primary 
diagnosis of chronic glaucoma, 15% of ocular hypertension. The population was primarily Caucasian 
(94.7%). The most common iris colours were brown (37.3%) and blue (18.1%).  
The  patients  were  required  to  use  the  beta-blocker  chosen  by  the  investigator  and  this  was  to  be 
maintained throughout the duration of the study. The most commonly used beta-blocker was timolol 
(55.6% of patients). Other beta-blockers used were levobunolol (24.3%), betaxolol (16.0%), carteolol 
(3.9%)  and  metipranolol  in  0.2%  of  patients.  Thus,  the  adjunctive  treatment  was  a  cardioselective 
beta-blocker for 16% of patients, and a non-selective beta-blocker for 84% of patients.  
Of  the  437  enrolled  patients  153 were  randomised  to  bimatoprost  qd/beta  blocker,  146 were 
randomised to bimatoprost bid/beta blocker and 138 were randomised to latanoprost/beta-blocker. The 
ITT  populations  included  all  randomised  patients 437  patients.  The  PP  population  included  90.6% 
(396/437) of enrolled patients: 138 patients in the bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker group, 130 patients in 
the  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group,  and  128 patients  in  the  latanoprost/beta-blocker  group.  The 
most  frequent  reason  for  discontinuation  of  the  study  was  adverse  events  (3.7%).  Only  1 patient 
discontinued due to lack of efficacy, in the latanoprost/beta-blocker group. 
Efficacy results 
There were no differences with respect to baseline IOP (ie, IOP following minimum of 3 weeks run-in 
on beta-blocker) among the three groups. The mean change from baseline at hour 0 of month 3 (the 
primary  end-point)  was  7.95  mmHg  for  those  patients  receiving  once  daily  bimatoprost  0.03%  with 
beta-blocker.  This  value  was  7.26  mmHg  for  those  receiving  bimatoprost  0.03%  twice  daily/  beta-
blocker and 7.35 mmHg in the latanoprost/beta-blocker group. The mean change from baseline in both 
bimatoprost/beta-blocker  groups  was  non-inferior  to  that  achieved  by  the  latanoprost/beta-blocker 
group. The PP population analysis showed the bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker group to be non-inferior to 
the  latanoprost/beta-blocker  group  but  this  was  not  achieved  by  the  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker 
group. 
Overall, at month 3, the mean decreases from baseline in IOP at hours 0, 2 and 8 in patients treated 
with bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker in the ITT population ranged from 6.03 to 7.95 mmHg.  These were 
non-inferior  to  the  decreases  seen  in  the  latanoprost/beta-blocker  group  (5.89  to  7.35  mmHg)  at  all 
time  points.  These  conclusions  were  confirmed  by  the  PP  analysis.  Mean  changes  from  baseline 
hour 0 
-7.95 mmHg  with 
bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker,  and  from  -6.91  to  -7.53 mmHg  with  latanoprost/beta-blocker.    The 
decreases from baseline hour 0 IOP were statistically significant within each treatment group at each 
follow-up visit (p<0.001). 
follow-up  visits 
ranged 
across 
-7.23 
from 
IOP 
all 
to 
The  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group  mean  decreases  from  baseline  IOP  at  month  3  ranged  from 
4.64 to 7.26 mmHg at all the diurnal time points. Non-inferiority was not achieved at the hour 2 or 8 
time points in either the ITT or the PP populations and not at hour 0 for the PP as already noted. 
Efficacy remained consistent at all the time points evaluated over the 3-month period in each treatment 
group.    For  the  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  group,  mean  decreases  from  baseline  at  hours  0  and  2 
were non-inferior to latanoprost/beta-blocker at all visits.  At hour 8, week 4 non-inferiority was not 
17/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
achieved  but  was  present  at  weeks  2  and  8  and  month  3.    The  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group 
results did not show non-inferiority with respect to the latanoprost/beta-blocker group at hours 2 and 8 
at any visit but non-inferiority was achieved at all visits for the hour 0 result. 
In  keeping  with  the  statistical  plan  comparisons  of  the  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  and  bimatoprost 
bid/beta-blocker regimens at hour 0 could only be performed.  This showed the once daily to be non-
inferior  to  the  twice  daily  regimen  when  used  adjunctively  with  beta-blocker  (confirmed  by  the  PP 
analysis). 
Study 192024-502 
Description of the study 
Multicentre, double-masked, randomised, parallel-group design to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
bimatoprost  0.03%  ophthalmic  solution administered  to each  eye once daily in the  evening  or twice 
daily compared with vehicle administered to each eye twice daily.  The study medications were given 
adjunctively  with  a  topical  beta-blocker  bid  for  3 months.  Masked  treatment  continued  for  a  further 
9 months.  However, all patients who had received vehicle in the first 3 months were randomised to 
receive one of the active treatment regimens in combination with beta-blocker in the extension phase. 
The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria,  the  primary  endpoint,  safety  measures  and  statistical  analysis 
were similar to those described in study 192024-501. 
RESULTS 
Study populations/accountability of patients  
The population consisted of 285 subjects entered by 28 investigators.  93 patients were randomised to 
the bimatoprost 0.03% qd/beta-blocker group, 97 to the bimatoprost 0.03% bid/beta-blocker group and 
95 to the vehicle/beta-blocker group.  The age range for the ITT population was from 22 to 87 years 
with  fewer  males  (46.7%)  than  female  subjects  (53.3%).  In  the  ITT  population,  the  entry  diagnosis 
was  chronic  glaucoma  for  approximately  90%  of  patients  and  OHT  for  approximately  10%.    The 
population was primarily Caucasian (91.6%). The most common iris colours were brown (39.3%) and 
blue  (15.1%).  There  were  no  significant  differences  among  the  3 treatment  groups  in  any  baseline 
characteristic. 
The  patients  were  required  to  use  the  beta-blocker  chosen  by  the  investigator  and  this  was  to  be 
maintained throughout the duration of the study. The most commonly used beta-blocker was timolol 
(54.7% of patients). Other beta-blockers used were levobunolol (22.5%), betaxolol (20.7%), carteolol 
(2.1%)  and  metipranolol  in  0.7%  of  patients.    Thus,  the  adjunctive  treatment  was  a  cardioselective 
beta-blocker  for  20%  of  patients,  and  a  non-selective  beta-blocker  for  80%  of  patients.  The  ITT 
populations  included  all  randomised  patients:  285 patients.  The  PP-populations  included  93.0% 
(265/285) of randomised patients. The most frequent reason for discontinuation of the study prior to 
month 3 was AEs (6.7%, 19/285). Only 0.4% (1/285) of patients discontinued prior to month 3 due to 
lack of efficacy. This patient was in the vehicle/beta-blocker group. 
Efficacy results 
There  were  no  differences  with  respect  to  baseline  IOP  among  the  three  groups.    The  mean  change 
from  baseline  at  hour  0  of  month  3  (the  primary  end-point)  was  7.38  mmHg  for  those  patients 
receiving  once  daily  bimatoprost  0.03%  with  beta-blocker.    This  value  was  6.34 mmHg  for  those 
receiving  bimatoprost  0.03%  twice  daily/  beta-blocker  and  3.59  mmHg  in  the  vehicle/beta-blocker 
group. The mean change from baseline in both bimatoprost/beta-blocker groups was superior to that 
achieved by the vehicle/beta-blocker group. The PP population analysis confirmed these results. 
Overall at month 3 the mean decreases from baseline in IOP at hours 0, 2 and 8 in patients treated with 
bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  in  the  ITT  population  ranged  from  6.39  to  7.38  mmHg.  These  were 
superior  to  the  decreases  seen  in  the  vehicle/beta-blocker  group  (2.62  to  3.59  mmHg)  at  all  time 
points.  Mean  decreases  from  baseline  hour 0  IOP  across  all  follow-up  visits  ranged  from  6.53  to 
7.38 mmHg  with  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker, 
to  3.59 mmHg  with 
vehicle/beta-blocker.    The  decreases  from  baseline  hour 0  IOP  were  superior  to  those  seen  in  the 
from  2.04 
and 
18/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vehicle/beta-blocker group at hour 0 at all time points. Superiority of the bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker 
group results was also seen compared to vehicle/beta-blocker at all time points at all visits. 
The  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group  also  showed  superiority  to  vehicle/beta-blocker  at  all  time 
points at all visits. The comparison of the bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker regimen with the bimatoprost 
bid/beta-blocker regimen showed the qd to be non-inferior at all time points and superior at over 40% 
of time points with respect to IOP lowering. 
Study 192024-502, 9/12 months data: 
As  part  of  the  response  to  List  of  questions  the  company  has  submitted  12  and  9  months  data  on 
adjunctive  therapy  (extension  study  502).  A  consistent  IOP-decreasing  effect  of  bimatoprost  qd 
adjunctively  to  a  topical  beta-blocker  was  demonstrated  in  this  12/9  months  extension  study. 
Statistically significant changes from 3-months values in the IOP were also seen in those patients who 
started with vehicle/beta-blocker switched to bimatoprost/beta-blocker regimen. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No special studies to investigate clinical efficacy in special populations were undertaken. However, in 
a pooled analysis of the monotherapy studies 008 and 009, in each of the subgroups age, sex, race, and 
iris  color,  the  mean  decreases  in  IOP  from  baseline,  over  all  timepoints  and  all  follow-up  visits,  in 
patients treated with bimatoprost qd, were similar to the overall population. This was also the case in 
patients  treated  with  bimatoprost  bid,  demonstrating  that  bimatoprost  qd  and  bimatoprost  bid  are 
effective  in  reducing  IOP  in  each  of  the  subgroups  assessed.  Similarly,  in  a  pooled  analysis  of  the 
adjunctive therapy studies 501 and 502, in the subgroups age, sex, and iris colour, the mean decrease 
in IOP from baseline over all timepoints and all follow-up visits in patients treated with bimatoprost 
QD/beta-blocker, were similar to the overall population.  It was also the case in patients treated with 
bimatoprost  BID/beta-blocker,  demonstrating  that  bimatoprost  QD/beta-blocker  and  bimatoprost 
BID/beta-blocker are effective in reducing IOP each of these subgroups assessed. The number of black 
patients in the pooled adjunctive studies was small (4.8%) and the results in this subgroup should be 
interpreted with caution. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Dose finding 
The  0.03%  concentration  of  bimatoprost  ophthalmic  solution  was  chosen  for  use  in  the  phase  III 
studies  based  on  the  results  of  the  phase II  dose-response  studies.    These  studies  demonstrated  that 
0.03% provided greater lowering of IOP than either the lower concentrations (0.003%, 0.01%), or the 
higher  concentration  (0.1%)  of  bimatoprost.  In  the  phase  II  studies  it  was  demonstrated  that  the 
lowering  of  IOP  begins  within  4 hours  of  initial  instillation  of  bimatoprost.  The  ocular  hypotensive 
effect  is  maintained  up  to  24 hours  post-instillation,  suggesting  the  potential  efficacy  with  qd 
administration.    An  evening  dosing  for  the  qd  regimen  was  selected  for  evaluation  in  the  phase III 
studies so that the time of maximal efficacy of the drug coincided with the morning hours (08:00 to 
11:00 AM)  when  untreated  IOP  is  usually  highest.  In  view  of  the  results  obtained  in  study 
192024-002,  where  bimatoprost  bid  administration  also  demonstrated  IOP  lowering  effect,  both 
regimens once daily (qd) and twice daily (bid) were included in the phase III studies to compare their 
efficacy.  
Main studies  
Four phase III studies were submitted to support the requested indication. The design of these studies 
is considered appropriate in this disease and the duration is sufficient to demonstrate the efficacy of 
the  product.  The  primary  endpoint  (mean  change  from  baseline  IOP)  is  considered  acceptable  and 
clinically relevant.  
Monotherapy:  Two  phase  III  studies  (192024  –  008  and  -009)  assess  bimatoprost  0.03%  as 
monotherapy  in  the  management  of  patients  with  chronic  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  Both 
studies  follow  the  same  design.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  bimatoprost  0.03%  ophthalmic  solution 
administered  to  each  eye  qd  in  the  evening  or  bid  was  compared  with  timolol  0.5%  ophthalmic 
19/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
solution  administered  to  each  eye  bid.  The  data  initially  provided  by  the  applicant  included  only  a 
period of 6 months of treatment. The results obtained in each study are the following:  
Study  008-  At  the  primary  endpoint  (IOP  lowering)  the  mean  change  from  baseline  at  hour  0  was 
7.88 mmHg after 6 months for those patients receiving bimatoprost 0.03% qd, 7.00 mmHg for those 
receiving bimatoprost 0.03% bid and 6.27 mmHg in the timolol group. The bimatoprost qd reductions 
were higher than those achieved in the timolol group (p<0.001) while those of bimatoprost 0.03% bid 
were  non-inferior  to  timolol.  In  addition,  the  IOP  lowering  seen  with  once  daily  dosing  group  was 
superior to the twice daily dosing group at the primary endpoint. Similar results were obtained for both 
the ITT population and the PP population. 
Study  009-  At  the  primary  endpoint  (IOP  lowering),  the  mean  change  from  baseline  at  hour  0  was 
8.69 mmHg after 6 months for those patients receiving bimatoprost 0.03% qd, 7.30 mmHg for those 
receiving bimatoprost 0.03% bid and 6.63 mmHg in the timolol group. As for the preceding study the 
bimatoprost qd reductions were higher than those achieved in the timolol group with the bimatoprost 
0.03% bid being non-inferior to timolol. As with the previous study, the IOP lowering seen with once 
daily bimatoprost dosing group was superior to the twice daily dosing group at the primary endpoint. 
Similar results were obtained for both the ITT population and the PP population. The results obtained 
in  both  clinical  trials  confirm  that  the  regimen  of  posology  qd  was  superior  to  bid  and  on  the  other 
hand the superiority of bimatoprost 0.03% qd.  
The  12-months  data  from  both  study  008  and  009  (submitted  as  part  of  the  response  to  List  of 
Questions)  confirm  a  consistent  decreasing  effect  on  IOP  with  bimatoprost  0.03%  eye  drops  qd  in 
patients  with  chronic  open  angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  The  number  and  percentage  of 
patients  who  obtained  the  clinically  relevant  lowering  of  the  IOP  was  consistently  greater  with 
bimatoprost qd than with timolol. Furthermore, the results confirm the choice of the once daily dosing 
regimen with bimatoprost 0.03% as appropriate. 
Results of the Study 010 demonstrated that the IOP decreasing effect of bimatoprost was non-inferior 
to that of latanoprost through the 3 months treatment period. Furthermore, from the results of the one 
month Study 016 it can be concluded that for the diurnal control of IOP, bimatoprost applied in the 
evening is generally superior to a timolol gel preparation administered in the morning, and, with few 
exceptions, non-inferior to latanoprost, applied in the evening in patients with open-angle glaucoma or 
ocular hypertension. 
Adjunctive therapy: Two phase III studies (192024 – 501 and 502) were performed comparing a once 
daily bimatoprost dosing regimen and bimatoprost twice daily administration but in combination with 
twice  daily  topical  beta-blocker  when  the  patients  were  not  adequately  controlled  on  topical  beta-
blockers. The first study evaluates the safety and efficacy of bimatoprost 0.03% ophthalmic solution 
administered  to  each  eye  qd  in  the  evening  or  bid  compared  with  latanoprost  0.005%  ophthalmic 
solution administered to each eye qd in the evening. The study medications were given adjunctively 
with  a  topical  beta-blocker  bid  for  3 months.  In  the  second  study,  bimatoprost  was  compared  with 
vehicle administered to each eye twice daily during 3 months and after all the patients were included 
in the treatment with bimatoprost. The results obtained in each study are the following:  
Study  501-  The  mean  decrease  from  baseline  at  hour  0  after  3  months  (the  primary  end-point)  was 
7.95 mmHg for those  patients receiving once daily bimatoprost 0.03% with beta-blocker. This value 
was 7.26 mmHg for those receiving bimatoprost 0.03% twice daily/ beta-blocker and 7.35 mmHg in 
the latanoprost/beta-blocker group. The mean change from baseline in both bimatoprost/beta-blocker 
groups  was  non-inferior  to  that  achieved  by  the  latanoprost/beta-blocker  group.  The  ITT  population 
analysis  showed  the  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  group  to  be  non-inferior  to  the  latanoprost/beta-
blocker group. This was not the case for the bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group. The PP  population 
analysis confirmed these results. 
Study 502- The  mean  decrease from  baseline at hour 0 after 3 months  (the primary end-point) was 
7.38 mmHg for those patients receiving once daily bimatoprost 0.03% with beta-blocker. This value 
was 6.34 mmHg for those receiving bimatoprost 0.03% twice daily/ beta-blocker and 3.59 mmHg in 
the  vehicle/beta-blocker  group.  The  ITT  population  analysis  showed  that  the  mean  change  from 
baseline  in  both  bimatoprost/beta-blocker  groups  was  superior  to  that  achieved  by  the  vehicle/beta-
blocker group. The PP population analysis confirmed these results. The results of the extension of the 
study 502 showed a consistent IOP-decreasing effect of bimatoprost qd adjunctively to a topical beta-
20/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
blocker  during  the  12/9  months  extension.  Statistically  significant  changes  from  3-months  values  in 
the  IOP  were  also  seen  in  those  patients  who  started  with  vehicle/beta-blocker  switched  to 
bimatoprost/beta-blocker regimen. 
Few patients discontinued the phase III studies due to lack of efficacy. In the phase III monotherapy 
studies, 2 patients (0.4%) treated with bimatoprost qd, and 9 patients (1.9%) treated with bimatoprost 
bid  discontinued  due  to  lack  of  efficacy,  and  in  the  phase  3  adjunctive  studies,  no  patients 
discontinued due to lack of efficacy. 
Extension of indication to first line therapy 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder applied through a Type II variation for an extension of indication 
to first line therapy in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in chronic open-angle glaucoma 
and  ocular  hypertension  (as  monotherapy  or  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  beta-blockers).  The  MAH 
submitted  the  following  clinical  data:  2-year  and  3-year  bimatoprost  monotherapy  versus  timolol 
(Study  192024-014)  and  6-month  comparative  data  of  bimatoprost  monotherapy  versus  latanoprost 
(Study  192024-019).  In  addition,  two  studies  provided  supportive  data:  bimatoprost  monotherapy 
versus  a  fixed  combination  (Study  192024-013)  and  bimatoprost  versus  adjunctive  therapy  (Study 
192024-015). Furthermore, a review of all available published literature was submitted. This included 
two  papers  on  the  use  of  bimatoprost  in  those  patients  who  have  failed  to  respond  to  latanoprost 
(Gandolfi & Cimino, 2003; Williams, 2003). 
Study 192024-014 (Month 24) 
Description of the study 
This was an extension of studies 192024–008 and 192024–009. Patients who had completed month 12 
in  one  of  these  studies  were  included  in  this  extension,  depending  on  the  centre’s  willingness  to 
participate and on the willingness of the patients’ to continue double-blind treatment. The study was 
double-masked, and the patients continued on the trial medication according to their randomisation at 
inclusion in the original study. IOP measurements were performed at H0 and H2.  
Mean change from baseline (ie IOP at Day 0 in studies 192024-008 and 192024-009) continued to be 
the  primary  efficacy  variable.  A  mean  decrease  in  IOP  of  3  mmHg  from  baseline  was  considered 
clinically relevant. Mean IOP was a secondary variable. In addition, subjects completed a satisfaction 
questionnaire using a 7-point scale and the Investigator evaluated his/her willingness to continue the 
patient on the current medication (assuming that treatment was still required) and that the medication 
was commercially available. This was called “Pharmacoeconomic evaluation”. 
The treatment regimens were bimatoprost once daily (vehicle in the morning and active treatment in 
the  evening),  bimatoprost  twice  daily,  or  timolol  0.5%  twice  daily,  respectively.  Since  the 
recommended  dosage  regimen  is  once  daily,  the  efficacy  data  for  the  bid  regimen  are  not  discussed 
further.  
Statistical analysis 
ITT with LOCF was used for IOP analysis using data from the worse eye as described for the original 
12-month studies.   
RESULTS 
Study population/accountability of patients 
A total of 23 centres in the USA contributed data. The intention to treat (ITT) population encompassed 
379 patients with the distribution 167 patients in the bimatoprost qd group, 131 in the bimatoprost bid 
group, and 81 patients in the timolol group. The demographic and other baseline characteristics were 
broadly similar in the three groups. As for ocular diagnoses, 61.7% had glaucoma, 36.4% had ocular 
hypertension, and 1.8% had a mixed diagnosis, i.e. glaucoma in one eye and ocular hypertension in the 
fellow eye.  
21/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
Overall at month 24 the mean decreases from baseline in IOP at hours 0 and 2 in patients treated with 
bimatoprost  once  daily  in  the  ITT  population  ranged  from  7.4  to  8.6  mmHg.  These  continued  to  be 
statistically significantly greater (p<0.001) than those achieved in patients treated with timolol (4.6 to 
6.0 mmHg) at every visit.  
As  shown  in  the  table  below,  at  H0  the  mean  change  in  IOP  from  baseline  ranged  from  –8.6  to–
8.0 mmHg in the bimatoprost qd group, and from -6.0 to -5.4 mmHg in the timolol group. The mean 
change with bimatoprost qd was statistically superior to timolol at every visit (p<0.001). 
As  for  the  H2  results,  the  mean  change  ranged  from  –8.2  to  –  7.4  mmHg  with  bimatoprost  qd,  and 
from  –5.1  to  –4.6  mmHg  with  timolol.  The  H2  values  also  were  statistically  superior  for  the 
bimatoprost qd regimen compared to timolol (p<0.001) at all visits with pair wise comparisons. 
The mean change in IOP (mmHg) is illustrated in the table below. 
Study 192024-014 (Month 24) - Mean Change from Baseline Intraocular Pressure (mmHg) with 
Bimatoprost or Timolol at Each Scheduled Visit (ITT with LOCF) 
Timepoint 
Visit 
Hour 0 
Hour 2 
Baseline 
Month 12 
Month 15 
Month 18 
Month 21 
Month 24 
Baseline 
Month 12 
Month 15 
Month 18 
Month 21 
Month 24 
Bimatoprost QD 
(N=167) 
26.4 
-8.6a 
-8.6 a 
-8.4 a 
-8.0 a 
-8.4 a 
25.0 
-7.9 a 
-8.0 a 
-8.2 a 
-7.4 a 
-7.8 a 
Timolol BID 
(N=81) 
25.4 
-5.7 
-5.8 
-6.0 
-5.4 
-5.7 
23.7 
-4.8 
-5.1 
-5.0 
-4.6 
-4.6 
a  Bimatoprost QD vs. timolol  p < 0.001 
Mean  H0  IOP  values  ranged  from  17.8  to  18.4  mmHg  in  the  bimatoprost  qd  group  and  19.5  to 
20.0 mmHg  in  the  timolol  group.    For  H2,  the  values  ranged  from  16.9  to  17.6  mmHg  in  the 
bimatoprost qd group and 18.7 to 19.1 mmHg in the timolol group.  Bimatoprost qd was statistically 
superior to timolol at all timepoints and all visits (p≤0.006). 
Results of the PP analysis were consistent with the ITT analysis. The “Patient satisfaction” was similar 
in  the  3  treatment  groups:  96.3%,  94.6%,  and  97.2%  in  the  bimatoprost  qd,  bid  and  timolol  group, 
respectively (p=0.858). In  addition, there was  no statistically significant  among  group difference for 
the “Pharmacoeconomic evaluation”; at month 24.  
Study 192024-014 (36 Months) 
Description of the study 
From  Month  24  patients  in  the  bimatoprost  bid-group  were  in  a  blinded  fashion  switched  to 
bimatoprost  qd  (the  group  bid/qd).  The  other  two  groups  continued  their  treatment  regimen 
unchanged.  
22/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  continued  to  be  mean  change  from  baseline  in  IOP.  In  addition  the 
proportion  of  patients  achieving  target  intraocular  pressures  at  each  hour  was  evaluated.  The  target 
levels  of  ≤13  mmHg  up  to  ≤20  mmHg  at  1  mmHg  increments  were  assessed.  Furthermore,  the 
proportion of patients who achieved target IOP within the IOP ranges of: ≤15 mmHg, >15 mmHg and 
≤18  mmHg,  and  >18  mmHg  was  compared  between  treatment  groups.  Subject  satisfaction 
questionnaire on a 7-point scale and the Investigator’s evaluation of his/her willingness to continue the 
patient on the current medication (assuming that treatment was still required) and that the medication 
was commercially available were again assessed. This was called “Pharmacoeconomic evaluation”  
Study populations/accountability of patients 
A total of 15 of the 23 centres from the 24 months study continued in the 36 months extension. A total 
of  183  patients  were  enrolled,  with  90  patients  continuing  in  the  bimatoprost  qd  group,  50  patients 
switching from bimatoprost bid to qd (hereafter called the bimatoprost bid/qd group), and 43 patients 
continuing with timolol bid. The number of patients who discontinued the study after month 24 and at 
or before  month  36 was 7/90 (7.8%)  in the bimatoprost qd group, 8/50 (16.0%) in the bid/qd  group 
and  6/43  (14.0%)  of  the  timolol  group.  The  reason  for  discontinuation  was  adverse  events  for  3 
patients in the bimatoprost qd group while no patients in the other groups discontinued for that reason. 
Discontinuation  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  was  reported  in  1/90  (1.1%),  3/50  (6.0%),  and  none,  in  the 
bimatoprost qd, bid/qd and timolol groups, respectively.  
There  were  no  major  differences  at  baseline  in  the  demography  or  IOP  values.  The  entry  diagnosis 
was glaucoma for 61.2% and ocular hypertension for 36.6% of the patients. A number of 2.2% had a 
mixed diagnosis (i.e. one eye with glaucoma and the fellow eye with ocular hypertension).  
Efficacy results 
Overall at month 36 the mean decreases from baseline in IOP at hours 0 and 2 in patients treated with 
bimatoprost  once  daily  in  the  ITT  population  ranged  from  7.1  to  8.3  mmHg.  These  decreases 
continued to be statistically significantly greater (p≤0.009) than those achieved in patients treated with 
timolol  (4.9  to  6.4  mmHg)  at  every  visit.    The  IOP-lowering  effect  of  bimatoprost  bid/qd  regimen 
ranged from 5.8 to 7.8 mmHg.   The bimatoprost qd regimen was statistically superior to the bid/qd 
regimen only at hour 2 on months 27 and 30 and non-inferior at all other timepoints.  The bimatoprost 
bid/qd regimen was statistically superior to timolol at months 27 and 30 (p≤0.048) and non-inferior at 
all other timepoints.  
Secondary endpoints: 
Except at month 36, statistically more patients obtained lower target IOP in the bimatoprost qd than in 
the timolol group in each interval ≤15, >15 and ≤18, and >18 mmHg (p<0.049) at H0 and at all visits 
at H2 (p<0.044).  
No statistical significant differences were seen (p=0.913) in the patient satisfaction with approximately 
95% of all groups being “Slightly to very satisfied” with the anti-glaucoma medication.  Furthermore, 
no  major  differences  between  the  3  groups  (bimatoprost  qd,  bimatoprost  bid/qd  and  timolol)  were 
evident  in  the  “Pharmacoeconomic  evaluation”:  96%,  88%  and  92%,  respectively  were  willing  to 
continue treatment (p=0.24). 
The patients were selected to both studies (24- and 36-month) based on the site’s willingness as well 
as the patients’ eligibility and willingness to continue.  The CPMP questioned whether bias had been 
introduced in the selection of centres or patients in their Request for Supplementary Information.  The 
MAH  provided  4  analyses  to  explore  the  possibility  of  biases  in  the  selection  of  patients  who 
continued into the extension phases of the pivotal studies (the reasons given for investigators/sites not 
proceeding into the extension 24- and 36-month studies, the proportion of patients continuing into the 
extension phases was similar between the bimatoprost qd group and the timolol group, the mean IOP 
for  patients  continuing  and  for  patients  not  continuing  into  the  second  and  the  third  study  year  and 
patterns for the  most prevalent adverse events in patients entering 24 or 36  months extension which 
indicate a  selection of patients according to adverse  events reported). The CPMP concluded that the 
23/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
analyses provided reassurance and confirmed that no bias had apparently been applied in the selection 
of  investigators/sites  or  patients  proceeding  into  the  extension  phases  for  24  and  36  months  of 
treatment. 
Study 192024-019 
Description of the study  
Multicentre, investigator-masked, randomised, parallel group 6-month comparative study of the safety 
and efficacy of once daily application of bimatoprost 0.03% and latanoprost 0.005% in patients with 
glaucoma or ocular hypertension conducted at 18 sites in the USA.  
The  criteria  of  inclusion  were  patients  with  ocular  hypertension  or  primary  open-angle  glaucoma, 
chronic  angle-closure  glaucoma  with  a  patent  iridotomy,  pseudoexfoliative  or  pigment  glaucoma; 
patients’ diagnosis required bilaterally treatment. The IOP at H0 should be ≥22 mmHg but ≤34 mmHg 
(post-washout), and an asymmetry ≤5 mmHg. For each IOP-lowering-medication a wash-out schedule 
prior  to  study  entry  had  been  defined.  Other  adequate  precautions  against  possible  interference  with 
study outcome were taken.  
Assessments took place pre-study, at baseline, at week 1, and at months 1, 3, and 6. During the trial 
the  IOP  was  measured  at  H0,  H4  and  H8.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  mean  change  from 
baseline  in  IOP  for  recordings  at  H0,  H4  and  H8.  Secondary  parameters  were  pharmacoeconomic 
evaluation by the Investigator, the % change from baseline in IOP values, the proportion of patients 
achieving target levels of ≤15 mmHg, >15 to ≤18 mmHg, and >18 mmHg compared between the two 
treatment  groups.  After  data  lock  two  separate  additional  analyses  of  patients  defined  as  “non 
responders”,  i.e.  achieving  less  than  15%  and  less  than  20%  decrease  in  IOP  from  baseline  were 
included.  
Statistical analysis  
The study was designed as a non-inferiority trial and ITT analysis with LOCF and PP analyses were 
performed.  A  2-sided  95%  confidence  interval  on  the  difference  in  mean  IOP  change  from  baseline 
between  the  groups  was  applied.  If  the  upper  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  was  less  than  δ, 
bimatoprost was considered as non-inferior to latanoprost. Several values for δ were used to calculate 
the  power.  There  were  approximately  135  patients  per  group  in  this  study  providing  91%  power  to 
detect a 1.5 mmHg difference.  
RESULTS 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
A total of 269 patients were included, of whom 133 patients were randomised to bimatoprost and 136 
patients to latanoprost, constituting the ITT population. The PP population encompassed 259 (96.3%) 
of  the  enrolled  patients  (126:133).  The  overall  frequency  of  discontinuation  by  month  6  was  7.4%, 
with 6.8% and 8.1% in the bimatoprost and latanoprost groups, respectively. The two treatment groups 
were well balanced in demographic parameters at baseline (sex, race, iris colour, mean deviations in 
visual field). The mean age was 61.3 years. The distribution of ophthalmic diagnoses was glaucoma 
(64%)  and  ocular  hypertension  (35%)  and  mixed  (2%),  i.e.  one  eye  with  glaucoma,  the  other  with 
ocular hypertension.  
No  significant  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  were  reported  in  the  demography.  A 
wash-out of previous anti-glaucoma medication was required in 68% of the patients in the bimatoprost 
group,  and  for  63%  in  the  latanoprost  group.  In  their  Request  for  Supplementary  Information  the 
CPMP requested further clarification as to which previous treatment the patients had received.  
The responses provided by the MAH showed that the distribution of patients who required wash-out of 
prostaglandin  analogues  before  entering  the  study  comparing  bimatoprost  to  latanoprost  (Study 
192024-019)  was  similar  in  the  two  treatment  groups,  namely  28.6%  and  22.1%,  respectively.  Only 
one  patient  was  treated  with  unoprostone  prior  to  study  entry,  against  67  patients  with  latanoprost, 
corresponding to a total of 68 patients (25.3%) of the 269 randomised patients. The explanation for the 
lack  of  patients  previously  treated  with  bimatoprost  being  the  recent  introduction  of  this  compound 
seemed  valid.  However,  based  on  these  data  alone  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  possibility  of 
24/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
inclusion  of  non-responder  patients  had  not  been  excluded.  In  their  Follow-On  Request  for 
Supplementary  Information  the  CPMP  asked  the  MAH  to  provide  efficacy  data  excluding  patients 
previously exposed to prostaglandin analogues. 
The  MAH  provided an  additional  analysis with the comparison  of  a study sub-population  excluding 
patients, who according to protocol criteria of inclusion required a wash-out period of latanoprost prior 
to randomisation to the double-blind study period, relative to the total study population. The number 
of patients in the sub-population treated with bimatoprost was 95 and with latanoprost 107, as opposed 
to the corresponding distribution in the total study population where 133 patients received bimatoprost 
and  136  received  latanoprost.  The  results  from  the  sub-population  are,  as  regards  to  mean  baseline 
IOP-values,  the  primary  end  point,  i.e.  change  in  IOP  from  baseline,  and  minimum  and  maximum 
IOP-values,  overall  very close  to what  was  observed in  the  total  study population. These  results are 
also reflected in the analysis of the proportion of non-responder patients (as defined as a decrease of 
20% or less in IOP from baseline). 
Though historic information of a possible previous unsuccessful treatment with latanoprost cannot be 
excluded the CPMP recognised that this likelihood is small. 
In conclusion, from the analysis it was evident that the therapeutic results from patients treated with 
latanoprost just prior to study inclusion, i.e. after the wash-out, are consistent with the results from the 
overall  study  population.  Hence,  although  it  would  have  been  desirable  that  the  exclusion  of 
latanoprost non-responders was established in the protocol, it is reasonable to conclude that there was 
no systematic inclusion of latanoprost non-responders. 
Efficacy results 
Baseline  IOP  at  H0  was  25.0  mmHg  and  24.9  mmHg  in  the  bimatoprost  and  latanoprost  groups, 
respectively. At H4 the IOP values were 24.0 mmHg and 23.3 mmHg for the two groups, respectively, 
this  value  was  statistically  significant  different  (p=0.028).  At  H8  the  values  were  22.6  mmHg  and 
22.5 mmHg for bimatoprost and latanoprost, respectively. 
The overall mean decreases from baseline in IOP at all timepoints ranged from 6.0 to 8.2 mmHg for 
bimatoprost and from 4.9 to 7.2 mmHg for latanoprost.  With particular reference to the H0 timepoint, 
these decreases ranged from 7.6 to 8.2 mmHg for bimatoprost and 6.0 to 7.2 mmHg in the latanoprost 
group.  The  mean  decrease  in  IOP  was  statistically  significantly  larger  in  the  bimatoprost  than  the 
latanoprost group at all measure points at all visits (p≤0.025) in the ITT-analysis. 
Due to the statistically significant difference in baseline IOP at H4, an analysis of covariance was also 
performed  for  each  of  the  variables.  This  showed  no  difference  to  the  conclusions  obtained  from 
analyses  with  no  adjustment  for  difference  in  baseline.  In  addition,  the  mean  IOP  value  was 
statistically significantly lower in the bimatoprost group than in the latanoprost group at all visits at all 
hours measured. 
The  mean  percent  change  from  baseline  in  IOP  at  H0,  H4  and  H8  ranged  from  26%  to  33%  in  the 
bimatoprost  group  and  from  21%  to  29%  in  the  latanoprost  group  at  week  1,  months  1,  3  and  6, 
respectively.  These  mean  percent  changes  from  baseline  in  IOP  were  significantly  greater  with 
bimatoprost than with latanoprost at all timepoints and all visits. 
Statistically significantly more patients in the bimatoprost group than the latanoprost group achieved 
an IOP value at all time points at study end in the lower target IOP values in the intervals ≤ 15 mmHg, 
>15 to ≤ 18 mmHg and >18 mmHg (p≤0.026).  
The PP analysis confirmed the ITT results. 
The responder rate analysis showed that with bimatoprost 83% to 89% and 69% to 82% of the patients 
had at Month 6 at the measured time points obtained a ≥15% reduction and a ≥ 20% reduction from 
baseline,  respectively,  as  opposed  to  65%  to  72%  and  50%  to  63%  of  the  patients  treated  with 
latanoprost. For both responder rates statistical superiority in favour of bimatoprost was demonstrated. 
Though  not  pre-defined  this  analysis  is  of  some  interest  as  the  response  rate  represents  a  clinically 
valuable measurement. 
The  results  substantiate  the  positive  trends  observed  in  the  earlier  comparative  study  of  3 months 
duration,  submitted  as  part  of  the  Response  to  the  CPMP  list  of  Questions  to  the  initial  Marketing 
25/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
Authorisation  application  and  the  1  month  comparative  study  provided  in  the  original  Marketing 
Authorisation application. 
Study 192024-013: 
Description of the study: 
Multicentre,  investigator-masked,  randomised,  parallel  group  3  months  study  where  placebo  qd 
(morning) + bimatoprost qd (evening) was compared to Cosopt (dorzolamide 0.2% + timolol 0.05%) 
bid,  in  patients  with  ocular  hypertension,  primary  open  angle  glaucoma,  chronic  angle-closure 
glaucoma  with  patent  iridotomy,  pseudoexfoliative  glaucoma  or  pigment  glaucoma  and  who  were 
uncontrolled  on  beta-blocker  alone  after  a  minimum  of  2  weeks  therapy.  The  inclusion  criteria 
required  an  IOP  of  ≥22  mmHg  and  ≤34  mmHg.  The  primary  end  point  was  mean  change  from 
baseline IOP. IOP measurements were performed at H0, H2, H8 and H12.  
Statistical analysis  
Combined  non-inferiority  and  superiority  tests  for  comparison  between  groups  were  applied  for 
change from baseline and IOP. If the mean change from baseline IOP with bimatoprost was less than 
2 mmHg greater than for Cosopt the power would be 85% with a sample size of 75 per treatment arm. 
The  upper limit  of 95% confidence interval was  used to  claim  non-inferiority if the upper limit was 
≤2 mmHg. 
Results 
A  total  of  177  patients  (bimatoprost:  90  and  Cosopt:  87)  were  enrolled  of  whom  168  patients 
completed. The mean decrease from baseline in IOP at hour 0 ranged from 6.8 to 7.6 mmHg and was 
at all visits statistically significantly greater with bimatoprost than with the combination which gave 
decreases  ranging  from  4.4  to  5.0 mmHg  (p<0.001).  The  mean  IOP  was  statistically  lower  at  the 
month 3 evaluations at 3 out of 4 timepoints and numerically lower at the fourth point. 
Study 192024-015: 
Description of the study: 
This was an open label, cross-over multicentre study conducted in the USA. The study population was 
similar to that in the pivotal studies, except that no IOP-limits were defined. During the first 60 days 
Timoptic XE (0.5% timolol gel) in the morning and Xalatan (latanoprost 0.005%) in the evening were 
applied.  From  day  60  to  day  120  bimatoprost  0.03%  in  the  evening  was  applied.  Five  visits  were 
scheduled.  
Statistical analysis   
As  for  efficacy  criteria,  bimatoprost  would  be  regarded  non-inferior  to  the  adjunctive  therapy  if  the 
mean difference in IOP from day 60 to day 120 was less than 2 mmHg. Bimatoprost was regarded as 
better  than  the  adjunctive  therapy  if  the  upper  limit  of  the  95%  confidence  interval  for  the  mean 
change in IOP from day 60 to day 120 was less than zero. A 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the 
change from baseline, with the paired t-test was applied. A sample size of 75 was demanded. 
Results:  
A total of 88 patients were enrolled and 74 completed the 120 days study. 
The  mean  H0  IOP  value  was  18.95  mmHg  at  baseline.  At  day  60  (i.e.  with  timolol+latanoprost 
treatment) the IOP was 17.85 mmHg, and at day 120 (i.e. with bimatoprost treatment) 18.57 mmHg. 
At  the  diurnal  points  H0,  H2,  H8  and  H12  the  upper  limits  were  0.71  to  1.61 mmHg,  i.e.  less  than 
2 mmHg. The bimatoprost treatment was thus regarded as non-inferior to the adjunctive therapy. 
26/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  results  were  obtained  in  an  open,  non-randomised  study,  and  the  assumptions  were  less 
demanding than those usually applied. Numerically, the H0 IOP values at the end of the study period 
at hours 0, 2, 8 and 12 were higher with bimatoprost than with timolol+latanoprost. 
Published literature: Latanoprost non-responder studies 
Bimatoprost usage in those primary open-angle or ocular hypertension patients who do not respond to 
latanoprost  was  reviewed.  A  prospective  cross-over  15-patient  study  treated  patients  with  either 
bimatoprost or latanoprost for 30 days and following a 30-day wash-out the same patients received the 
other  therapy  in  a  masked  manner  (Gandolfi  &  Cimino,  2003).  Only  patients  who  had  previously 
shown a lack of response to latanoprost (defined as a ≤10% IOP-lowering effect following 6-8 weeks 
treatment with latanoprost) were included in the study. In order to further evaluate the true effect of 
each  therapy,  only  one  eye  of  each  patient  was  randomly  selected  for  treatment  with  the  other  eye-
receiving placebo. 
No significant IOP changes from baseline were observed in the untreated eye during each phase of the 
study.  The  mean  IOP  diurnal  curve  after  30  days  on  latanoprost  did  not  differ  from  the  untreated 
baseline. However, the mean IOP readings after 30 days on bimatoprost were significantly lower than 
the  baseline  at  time  points  throughout  the  day.  Whilst  all  of  the  15  patients  failed  to  show  a  >20% 
decrease  from  baseline  on  latanoprost,  13  of  the  15  patients  did  show  this  degree  of  decrease  from 
baseline when instilling bimatoprost.   
Although,  the  patient  numbers  are  low,  this  study  does  strongly  suggest  that  patients  who  are 
latanoprost non-responders have a high probability of responding well to bimatoprost. 
A  second  recently  presented  study,  of  51  patients,  supports  these  findings  (Williams,  2003).    In  the 
first  phase  of  this  study  patients  were  treated  with  latanoprost  in  one  eye  for  8  weeks  with  IOP 
evaluations at both weeks 4 and 8. Those patients with an IOP reduction less than or equal to 3 mmHg 
at both visits, relative to the untreated fellow eye, were considered poor responders to latanoprost and 
only  these  patients  (n=21;  of  these  15  were  known  to  be  previous  latanoprost  non-responders)  were 
switched  to  receive  bimatoprost  in  the  same  eye  that  had  previously  been  given  latanoprost.  On 
comparing these 21 patients, after 8 weeks of each therapy the mean IOP reduction from baseline with 
latanoprost was 1.9 mmHg and 5.4 mmHg with bimatoprost for the same patients. Thus the switch to 
bimatoprost  provided  a  statistically  and  clinically  significant  additional  mean  IOP  reduction  of 
3.5 mmHg. 
Due  to  the  low  patient  numbers,  the  referenced  studies  do  not  allow  the  drawing  of  any  definitive 
therapeutic  conclusions.  However,  they  would  probably  justify  more  comprehensive  future  clinical 
trials.  
Clinical safety 
The  clinical  development  programme  for  bimatoprost  0.03%  ophthalmic  solution  consisted  of 
13 phase I  to III  studies  which  provided  a  safety  database  of  2326 patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular 
hypertension  or  normal  subjects,  including  1708  patients  or  normal  subjects  who  were  exposed  to  a 
variety of concentrations and dosing regimen of bimatoprost. Of these 1708 patients, 1219 received a 
concentration/regimen of bimatoprost alone and 489 bimatoprost in combination with a topical beta-
blocker. The remaining 618 patients or normal subjects received active control or vehicle. 
Patient exposure 
Monotherapy studies (192024-008 and 192024-009) 
In  the  phase 3  monotherapy  studies,  all  1198 patients  who  enrolled  received  at  least  1  dose  of  test 
medication  and  are  included  in  the  safety  analyses:  474 patients  instilled  bimatoprost  0.03%  qd, 
483 patients instilled bimatoprost 0.03% bid, and 241 patients instilled timolol  0.5% bid.  The  mean 
(range) duration of treatment during the initial 6 months was 171.1 (2 to 228) days in the bimatoprost 
qd group, 160.2 (1 to 239) days in the bimatoprost bid group, and 174.5 (1 to 216) days in the timolol 
group.  
Adjunctive studies (192024-501 and 192024-502) 
27/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
In  the  phase 3  adjunctive  studies,  all  722  patients  who  enrolled  received  at  least  1  dose  of  test 
medication  and  are  included  in  the  safety  analyses:  246 patients  instilled  bimatoprost  0.03%  qd, 
243 patients  instilled  bimatoprost  0.03%  bid,  138 patients  instilled  latanoprost  0.005%  qd,  and  95 
patients  instilled  vehicle  bid,  each  adjunctively  with  a  topical  beta-blocker  bid.  The  mean  (range) 
duration of treatment during the 3 months was 80.5 (1 to 116 days) in the bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker 
group,  78.4  (1  to  120  days)  in  the  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  group,  82.4  (1  to  109  days)  in  the 
latanoprost/beta-blocker  group,  and  83.8  (1  to  159  days)  in  the  vehicle/beta-blocker  group.  Overall, 
90.9% (656/722) of patients completed 3 months treatment. 
Studies in healthy subjects and dose finding studies 
A  total  of  108 healthy,  normal  subjects  (including  23 elderly  subjects  over  65 years  in  study 012) 
participated in the pharmacokinetic and mechanism of action studies. The 4 dose-ranging studies were 
conducted  in  154  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  (studies  192042-001, 
192042-002,  192042-003  and  192042-004).  The  duration  of  treatment  was  28 days  in  studies  002, 
003, and 004. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Studies in healthy subjects and dose finding studies 
There were no deaths, other serious AEs, or other significant AEs in the studies in healthy subjects. 
In  the  dose  finding  study  001,  the  most  frequently  reported  treatment-related  AEs  across  all 
bimatoprost  groups  were  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  headache,  dry  eye,  gastrointestinal  symptoms 
(diarrhoea, nausea, and abdominal pain), and eye ache/pain.  No serious AEs were reported during the 
study, and no patient discontinued due to an AE.   
In  study  002,  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  across  all  bimatoprost  groups  were  conjunctival 
hyperaemia, dry eye, and diarrhoea.  The only statistically significant among-group difference was for 
overall AEs, with significantly higher incidences with bimatoprost 0.01% and 0.03% than with vehicle 
(p=0.003). There were no study discontinuations due to AEs. Conjunctival hyperaemia was observed 
on  gross  inspection  in  all  treatment  groups.    The  mean  increases  were  significantly  greater  with 
bimatoprost treatment than with timolol at most follow-up visits, and greater than with vehicle at some 
visits.    The  maximum  hyperaemia  grade  for  the  active  bimatoprost  groups  increased  to  “severe” 
during bid dosing.  Conjunctival hyperaemia was the only significant ocular finding. 
In study 003, the only AE with a statistically significant difference in incidence between bimatoprost 
and  vehicle  was the  most frequently  reported AE, conjunctival  hyperaemia (p=0.043).   Other ocular 
events  reported  for  more  than  1 patient  were  burning  sensation  in  the  eye,  blepharitis,  and  visual 
disturbance  in  the  bimatoprost  group,  and  blepharitis  and  eye  discharge  in  the  vehicle  group. 
Non-ocular  AEs  were  reported  in  3 patients  in  the  bimatoprost  group.  There  were  no  serious  AEs.  
Two patients discontinued treatment due to AEs. There were statistically significant increases in the 
severity  of  bulbar  hyperaemia  by  gross  inspection  and  conjunctival  hyperaemia  by  biomicroscopy 
during  treatment  with  bimatoprost  (p≤0.030).    The  increased  severity  was  generally  greater  with 
bimatoprost  than  with  vehicle  (p≤0.025).    An  increase  of  at  least  1 severity  grade  from  baseline 
conjunctival  erythema  by  biomicroscopy  was  reported  for  all  16 patients  (100%)  in  the  bimatoprost 
group and 3 patients (18.8%) in the vehicle group (p<0.001).  
In  study 004,  the  most  frequently  reported  treatment-related  AEs  in  the  bimatoprost  groups  were 
conjunctival hyperaemia and ocular pruritus. No serious AEs were reported during the study and four 
patients discontinued the study due to AEs.  
Monotherapy Studies 
Treatment-related  AEs  included  those  events  rated  by  the  investigator  as  possibly,  probably,  or 
definitely related to study medication.  During the first 6 months of the phase 3 monotherapy studies, 1 
or more treatment-related AEs were reported by 76.2% (361/474) of patients treated with bimatoprost 
qd, 88.8% (429/483) of patients treated with bimatoprost bid, and 41.9% (101/241) of patients treated 
with  timolol.  The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-related  AEs  was  statistically  significantly  lower  in 
patients treated with timolol than in patients treated with either regimen of bimatoprost (p<0.001), and 
28/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
was statistically significantly lower in patients treated with bimatoprost qd than in patients treated with 
bimatoprost  bid  (p<0.001).  In  patients  using  bimatoprost  qd  compared  to  those  using  timolol,  there 
was a statistically significantly higher incidence of conjunctival hyperaemia, growth of eyelashes and 
eye pruritus (all p<0.001), eye dryness (p=0.008), blepharal pigmentation (p=0.002), erythema eyelid 
(p=0.011)  and  eyelash  discoloration  (p=0.020).  In  patients  using  bimatoprost  bid  compared  to  those 
using  timolol,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival  hyperaemia, 
growth  of  eyelashes,  eye  pruritus,  eye  dryness,  blepharal  pigmentation,  foreign  body  sensation, 
eyelash discoloration and photophobia (all p<0.001), eye pain (p=0.003), erythema eyelid (p=0.020), 
and eyelid pruritus (p=0.007). In patients using bimatoprost bid compared to bimatoprost qd, there was 
a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  growth  of  eyelashes, 
photophobia and eyelid pruritus (all p<0.001), blepharal pigmentation (p=0.003), eye pain (p=0.009), 
and foreign body sensation (p=0.015). The majority of treatment-related AEs were mild to moderate in 
severity.  Incidences and types of non-ocular treatment-related AEs were similar among the 3 pooled 
treatment groups and there were no statistically significant differences among the treatment groups for 
these  events.  The  only  non-ocular  treatment  related  AEs  occurring  at  an  incidence  of  ≥1%  in  the 
bimatoprost qd group were headache, asthenia and 'liver function tests abnormal'. Of the 5 occurrences 
of abnormal  liver function tests in the bimatoprost qd  group, 2  were  moderate, 3 were  mild, and  all 
were considered possibly related to study medication. All cases of liver dysfunction are explainable by 
other  eliciting  factors  like  other  disease,  alcohol  or  medication  use.  One  patient  was  reported  with 
elevated  γ-glutamyl  transpeptidase  (GGT)  at  baseline  and  throughout  the  study.  No  patient 
discontinued due to laboratory findings. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events in Phase 3 Monotherapy studies: 
Overall  7.0%  (33/474)  of  patients  receiving  bimatoprost  qd,  12.6%  (61/483)  of  patients  receiving 
bimatoprost  bid,  and  3.3%  (8/241)  of  patients  receiving  timolol  discontinued  due  to  AEs  (p<0.001).  
Significantly larger percentages of patients discontinued due to AEs in the bimatoprost bid group than 
in either the bimatoprost qd or timolol groups, and in bimatoprost qd group than in the timolol group 
(p≤0.048). 
The  most  common  AE  leading  to  discontinuation  was  conjunctival  hyperaemia  which  led  to 
discontinuation  in  3.4%  (16/474)  of  patients  receiving  bimatoprost  qd,  5.2%  (25/483)  of  patients 
receiving  bimatoprost  bid,  and  0.4%  (1/241)  of  patients  receiving  timolol  (p=0.005).    Conjunctival 
hyperaemia and growth of eyelashes were the only AEs for which there was a statistically significant 
difference  between  the  groups  in  the  incidence  of  patients  discontinuing  the  studies.    A  higher 
percentage  of  patients  treated  with  either  bimatoprost qd  or  bid  discontinued  due  to  conjunctival 
hyperaemia than those treated with timolol (p≤0.014) and a higher percentage of patients discontinued 
due  to  growth  of  eyelashes  in  the  bimatoprost  bid  group  (1.2%  6/483)  than  in  the  qd  group 
(0%, 0/474, p=0.031). 
Other  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  occurring  at  an  incidence  of  2  or  more  patients  (0.4%  in  the 
bimatoprost groups) were in the bimatoprost qd group: Eye pruritus, (8 patients, 1.7%), eye irritation, 
(4 patients, 0.8%), eye dryness, (3 patients, 0.6%), allergic conjunctivitis, blepharal pigmentation, eye 
pain, foreign body sensation, burning sensation in eye (2 patients each, 0.4%). In the bimatoprost bid 
group: Eye  pruritus, blepharal  pigmentation,  eye  pain, (8  patients each,  1.7%); growth of eyelashes, 
photophobia (6 patients each, 1.2%); foreign body sensation (4 patients, 0.8%), eye dryness, allergic 
conjunctivitis  (3  patients  each,  0.6%);  eye  irritation,  burning  sensation  in  eye,  asthenia,  epiphora, 
eyelid  oedema,  iritis,  diarrhoea,  keratitis,  optic  nerve  (NOS)  (disc  haemorrhage),  visual  disturbance 
(2 patients  each,  0.4%).  In  the  timolol  group:  No  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  occurred  at  an 
incidence of 2 or more patients. AEs leading to discontinuation occurring at single patient incidence 
(0.4%)  were;  conjunctival  hyperaemia,  eye  irritation,  foreign  body  sensation,  conjunctival  oedema, 
chest pain, dypsnea, visual field defect, accidental injury, infection, and respiratory disorder. 
Serious Adverse Events in Phase 3 Monotherapy Studies: 
Serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported for 4.9% (23/474) of patients treated with bimatoprost, 
4.1%  (20/483)  of  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost  bid,  and  4.1%    (10/241)  of  patients  treated  with 
timolol (p=0.844 for among-group comparison). Except for 1 case in the timolol group, all SAEs were 
non-ocular. Only 3 of the SAEs were considered to be possibly related to the study medication: in the 
29/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
timolol  group  1  patient  had  corneal  oedema  and  a  second  patient  was  hospitalised  due  to  acute 
pulmonary  distress;  in  the  bimatoprost  qd  group,  1  patient  was  hospitalised  for  chest  pain  and  a 
diagnosis  of  coronary  artery  disease  was  made.  The  patient  had  a  history  of  systemic  hypertension. 
Treatment  was continued  for 2  months beyond  the event although the investigator had  considered it 
possibly related to treatment. There was 1 death due to a myocardial infarction. The patient, a 73 year 
old  male  with  a  history  of  diabetes,  hypertension,  and  daily  tobacco  use,  had  been  receiving 
bimatoprost qd and the event was considered unrelated to study treatment. 
Phase 3 Adjunctive Studies 
Treatment-related  AEs  included  those  events  rated  by  the  investigator  as  possibly,  probably,  or 
definitely  related  to  study  medication.    During  the  3  months  of  the  phase  3  adjunctive  studies,  1  or 
more  treatment-related  AEs  were  reported  by  56.1%  (138/246)  of  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost 
qd/beta-blocker,  72.4%  (176/243)  of  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost  bid  /beta-blocker,  34.8% 
(48/138)  of  patients  treated with latanoprost/beta-blocker  and  27.4% (26/95)  of patients treated  with 
vehicle/beta-blocker. Overall incidences of treatment-related AEs were statistically significantly lower 
in  patients  treated  with  latanoprost/beta-blocker  than  in  patients  treated  with  either  regimen  of 
bimatoprost/beta-blocker  (p<0.001)  and  were  statistically  significantly  lower  in  patients  treated  with 
vehicle/beta-blocker  than  in  patients  treated  with  either  regimen  of  bimatoprost/beta-blocker 
(p<0.001).   Overall incidences  of treatment-related  AEs  were  also statistically significantly lower  in 
patients 
treated  with  bimatoprost 
bid/beta-blocker (p<0.0019). 
treated  with  bimatoprost qd/beta-blocker 
in  patients 
than 
In 
using 
patients 
compared 
(p=0.001). 
bimatoprost 
bid/beta-blocker 
In  patients  using  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  compared  to  latanoprost/beta-blocker,  there  was  a 
statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival  hyperaemia  (p=0.004)  and  growth  of 
eyelashes 
to 
latanoprost/beta-blocker,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival 
hyperaemia  and growth  of eyelashes  (both p<0.001),  eye pruritus  (p=0.004),  blepharal  pigmentation 
(p=0.011)  and  eye  pain  (p=0.004).  In  patients  using  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker  compared  to 
bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival 
hyperaemia (p<0.001), growth of eyelashes (p=0.015), eye pruritus (p=0.002), blepharal pigmentation 
(p=0.042)  and  eye  pain  (p=0.011).  In  patients  using  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  compared  to 
vehicle/beta-blocker,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of  conjunctival 
hyperaemia  and  growth  of  eyelashes  (both  p<0.001).  In  patients  using  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker 
compared  to  vehicle/beta-blocker,  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of 
conjunctival  hyperaemia  and  growth  of  eyelashes  (both  p<0.001),  eye  pruritus  (p=0.006),  blepharal 
pigmentation (p=0.008) and eye pain (p=0.023). The majority of treatment-related AEs were mild to 
moderate in severity. The only non-ocular treatment-related AE occurring at an incidence of ≥1% in 
either  bimatoprost/beta-blocker  group  was  headache.    Incidences  and  types  of  non-ocular  treatment-
related AEs were similar among the 2 pooled bimatoprost/ beta-blocker groups, the latanoprost group 
and the vehicle group. There were no statistically significant among-group differences for non-ocular 
treatment-related AEs. 
In adjunctive study 192024-501, treatment-related iritis was reported for 1 patient in the bimatoprost 
qd/beta-blocker group and 2 patients in the bimatoprost bid/beta-blocker group.  In study 192024-502 
there were no reports of treatment-related iritis or uveitis.  No cases of cystoid macular oedema were 
reported  in  either  of  the  2  adjunctive  studies.  Only  1  patient  discontinued  due  to  treatment-related 
iritis/uveitis. 
Discontinuations Due to Adverse Events in Phase 3 Adjunctive Studies 
Overall  4.1%  (10/246)  of  patients  receiving  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker,  9.1%  (22/243)  of  patients 
receiving  bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker,  1.4%  (2/138)  of  patients  receiving  latanoprost/beta-blocker, 
and  1.1%  (1/95)  of  patients  receiving  vehicle/beta-blocker  discontinued  the  study  due  to  AEs 
(p=0.001).  Significantly  larger  percentages  of  patients  discontinued  due  to  AEs  in  the  bimatoprost 
bid/beta-blocker  group  than  in  either  the  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  group  (p=0.026),  the 
latanoprost/beta-blocker group (p=0.003)  or the  vehicle/beta-blocker  group  (p=0.009). There was  no 
statistically  significant  difference  between  the  percentage  of  patients  discontinuing  the  study  in  the 
bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  group  and  the  percentages  of  patients  discontinuing  in  either  the 
30/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
latanoprost/beta-blocker  group  or  the  vehicle/beta-blocker  group.  The  most  common  AE  leading  to 
discontinuation  was  conjunctival  hyperaemia.  There  were  no  discontinuations  due  to  conjunctival 
hyperaemia in either the latanoprost/beta-blocker or vehicle/beta-blocker groups.  
Serious Adverse Events in Phase 3 Adjunctive Studies 
Serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  were  reported  for  2.4%  (6/246)  of  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost 
qd/beta-blocker, 1.6% (4/243)  of patients treated with bimatoprost  bid/beta-blocker, 0.7% (1/138) of 
patients  treated  with  latanoprost/beta-blocker  and  1.1%  (1/95)  of  patients  treated  with  vehicle/ 
beta-blocker  (p=0.718  for  among-group  comparison).  Only  1  of  the  SAEs  was  considered  to  be 
possibly related to the study medication. There were no deaths during study 501 or the first 3 months 
of study 502. 
Laboratory findings 
Methods  of  evaluation  of  ophthalmological  safety  parameters:  Visual  acuity  (measured  with  a 
standard  Early  Treatment  Diabetic  retinopathy  Study  (ETDRS)  chart,  and  recorded  in  Snellen 
equivalent units and translated into lines), and slit lamp biomicroscopy was performed prestudy and at 
each  follow-up  visit  included  evaluations  of  lid  (erythema/hyperaemia.  oedema  and  other  findings 
incl.  lashes),  conjunctiva  (bulbar  and  palpebral  for  erythema/hyperaemia  and  oedema),  cornea 
(oedema,  staining/erosion,  endothelial  pigment  and  endothelial  dystrophy),  anterior  chamber  (cells, 
flare, anterior and posterior synecchiae), lens (cataract), iris pathology, vitreous pathology each graded 
as none=0, trace=0.5, mild =1, moderate=2 or severe=3. Ophthalmoscopy (prestudy and at month 6 or 
3,  according  to  the  duration  of  the  study),  with  fundus  pathology  (same  grading  scale)  and  cup/disc 
ratio on the Allergan Armaly chart on a scale from 0-0.9 with the 6 or 3 months value compared to 
baseline,  and  visual  field  examination.  Visual  field  was  evaluated  using  a  Humphrey  24-2  full 
threshold  automated  perimetry  test.  At  selected  centres  laser  flaremeter  and  endothel  cell  density 
investigations  were  in  addition  performed.  Iris  colour,  corneal  pachymetry,  heart  rate  and  blood 
pressure also were evaluated. 
Visual acuity 
The  majority,  namely  87-95%,  did  not  show  any  change  in  visual  acuity  during  the  6  months 
monotherapy  and  3  months  adjunctive  studies.  For  the  rest,  there  was  no  statistical  significant 
differences 
lines  or  more 
(p=0.801/0.887/0.100/0.126 for each of the trials).  
frequency  of  patients  who  had  a  decrease  of  2 
the 
in 
Ophthalmoscopy and slit lamp biomicroscopy 
Monotherapy studies: An increase in conjunctival or erythema hyperaemia from baseline was noted in 
approximately 38% in the bimatoprost qd group, 47% in the bid group, and approximately 7% in the 
timolol group (p<0.001). Also an increase in the lid erythema (~ 6% in the qd group and ~ 8% in the 
bid group) was statistically more frequent in the bimatoprost groups than in the timolol group (0-1%). 
Increases  of  at  least  grade  1  in  the  severity  of  anterior  chamber  cells  or  flare  resulted  in  the 
discontinuation because of iritis in 3 cases, and because of uveitis in 2 cases, all after approximately 
2 weeks  of  treatment  with  bimatoprost  qd  or  bid  Further  3  patients  in  the  bimatoprost  groups  had 
either mild flare, or 1-5 or 6-25 cells in the anterior chamber at isolated visits, and a single patient in 
the timolol group had 1-5 cells and trace flare at one visit.   
Growth of eyelashes was reported statistically significantly more frequent in the bimatoprost qd and 
bid,  groups  than  in  the  timolol  treated  group,  namely  in  approximately  22%,  32%,  and  5%, 
respectively. 
Adjunctive beta-blocker studies: Increase in conjunctival hyperaemia was distributed with 15%, 27%, 
and 11% in bimatoprost qd, bid, and latanoprost treated patients, respectively (p<0.001), however, the 
difference  between  bimatoprost  qd  and  latanoprost  was  not  statistically  significant.  Also  for  the 
growth of eyelashes a statistically significant difference was observed: 19%, 25%, and 9% in the three 
groups, respectively. Trace levels of anterior chamber cells and/or flare were reported in 7 patients, of 
which 3 were noteworthy as the findings were persistent, and in one case the patient was withdrawn 
because of uveitis; these 3 cases occurred in the bimatoprost groups. 
31/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Laser  flaremeter  analysis  was  performed  at  selected  centres  in  a  subset  of  123  and  187  patients  in 
study 192024-008 and –009, respectively. No statistical significant differences across the 3 treatment 
groups were observed. 
Endothelial cell count was carried out at selected centres in 126 and 215 patients in study –008 and 
-009, respectively. No statistically significant differences across the treatment groups were reported.  
Cup/disc ratio 
In  the  monotherapy  studies  the  majority  (79%  and  72%  in  study  008  and  009,  respectively)  had  no 
change  from  baseline  to  the  end  of  the  6  months  period.  No  specific  pattern  between  the  treatment 
groups in the smaller part of patients who exhibited a worsening during the study period was obvious. 
In the adjunctive studies, around 90% had no change from baseline. In study 501, a numeric difference 
in the number of patients with a worsening was found in the bimatoprost groups, where 2/146, resp. 
2/138 (1.4%) of the qd, respectively, bid group  versus 0 patients  in the latanoprost group. A similar 
frequency in the bimatoprost groups versus 1% in the vehicle group was reported from study 502. 
Visual field  
No statistically significant differences in the changes in visual field were disclosed in the monotherapy 
or adjunctive studies. The vast majority, around 95% in the monotherapy studies and around 92% in 
the  adjunctive  studies,  showed  less  than  5  dB  change  from  baseline,  and  no  statistical  significant 
differences across the treatment groups in this respect were identified. 
Other: 
Iris colour: Increased iris pigmentation was reported in 1% of the bimatoprost treated patients in the 
6 months  monotherapy  studies,  and  in  the  3  months  beta-blocker  adjunctive  studies  in  2-3%  in  the 
bimatoprost treated groups, with no cases in the latanoprost and vehicle treated patients. No specific 
iris colour group was dominating with this adverse event. 
Both  in  the  monotherapy  and  the  adjunctive  studies  the  changes  in  heart  rate  and  blood  pressure  in 
patients treated with bimatoprost were generally small and were not considered clinically relevant.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Near 7% of patients discontinued the phase 3 studies due to any AE with once daily administration. In 
every  comparison  (both  as  monotherapy  and  as  adjunctive  therapy)  the  finally  proposed  dosage 
regimen of 0.03% once a day (qd) proved better tolerated than the alternative dosage (0.03% twice a 
day –bid-). This supports the proposed dosage, initially selected on the basis of the higher effect of the 
bid  regimen.  A  number  of  adverse  events  not  previously  seen  in  the  earlier  phase  studies  became 
apparent during the phase III studies, including growth of eyelashes, blepharal pigmentation and iridial 
pigmentation.  
Bimatoprost seems to be worse tolerated than timolol and perhaps also than latanoprost. The overall 
incidence of treatment-related AEs was statistically significantly lower in patients treated with timolol 
than  in  patients  treated  with  either  regimen  of  bimatoprost  in  monotherapy  studies.  Similarly, 
incidences  of  treatment-related  AEs  were  statistically  significantly  lower  in  patients  treated  with 
latanoprost/beta-blocker than  in  patients treated  with either regimen  of bimatoprost/beta-blocker  and 
were  statistically  significantly  lower  in  patients  treated  with  vehicle/beta-blocker  than  in  patients 
treated with either regimen of bimatoprost/beta-blocker.  
Non-ocular, treatment related adverse events occurring at an incidence of ≥1% in the bimatoprost qd 
group included headache, asthenia and liver function tests abnormalities.  
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular,  bimatoprost 
treatment-related  AEs  were  conjunctival 
hyperaemia,  eyelash  growth  and  ocular  pruritus.  Conjunctival  hyperaemia  was  responsible  for  3.4% 
and 1.2% of discontinuations in the monotherapy and adjunctive studies respectively. This is a similar 
pattern  to  that  of  the  only  PGF2α  analogue  antiglaucoma  agent  currently  on  the  market  (latanoprost) 
but the frequency with bimatoprost appears higher. The other active comparator included in the phase 
3 trials, timolol induced, as expected, considerably less treatment-related AEs.  
When the less frequent (less than 1%) reactions are considered, the trend seems to be the same (higher 
frequency  with  bimatoprost  than  with  timolol  and  perhaps  also  than  with  latanoprost)  although  the 
32/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
small  numbers  make  the  analysis  less  conclusive  (e.g.  iritis  and  uveitis  were  seen  with  bimatoprost 
monotherapy but not with timolol). In the monotherapy studies intraocular inflammation was reported 
as treatment-related iritis for 0.4% (2/474) of patients treated with bimatoprost qd and 1.0% (5/483) of 
patients treated with bimatoprost bid, and as treatment-related uveitis for 0.2% (1/474) of patients with 
bimatoprost qd and 0.2% (1/483) of patients with bimatoprost bid. In the adjunctive studies there were 
3  occurrences  of  iritis/uveitis  in  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost-bid/beta-blocker  (1.2%)  and  1 
occurrence  in  patients  treated  with  bimatoprost  qd/beta-blocker  (0.4%).  There  were  no  such 
occurrences  in  patients  treated  with  latanoprost/beta-blocker  or  vehicle/beta-blocker.  This  suggests 
that few patients prone to develop iritis/uveitis might have been included in the trial (published data 
with latanoprost report an anterior uveitis incidence of 6.4%) and that the obtained iritis/uveitis figures 
might  have  been  higher  in  other  populations.  There  were  no  reports  of  cystoid  macular  oedema 
associated with qd or bid dosing in either the monotherapy or adjunctive phase 3 clinical trials. 
No specific interaction studies have been submitted even if during the phase 3 monotherapy studies, 
over 87% of patients were receiving concomitant medications during the initial 6 months of treatment 
and in the adjunctive studies, study medication was administered adjunctively with a beta-blocker for 
3 months. There were no AEs reported suggestive of a drug-drug interaction between bimatoprost and 
any systemic medication.  
In elderly patients, the safety profile of bimatoprost was similar and with few notable differences  in 
types  and  incidences  of  AEs.  There  was  no  apparent  different  safety  profile  when  the  data  were 
analysed by sex, race or iris colour. 
Clinical safety first line therapy 
Study 192024-014 (24 months): 
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  was  similar  among  the  three  treatment  groups  being  687  days  for 
bimatoprost qd, 664 days for bimatoprost bid and 702 days for timolol. 
One or more treatment related adverse events were reported for 42.5%, 45.0%, and 21.0% of patients 
in  the  bimatoprost  qd,  bid,  and  timolol  groups,  respectively  (p<0.001).    A  statistically  significant 
higher  frequency of  conjunctival  hyperaemia, growth of  eye lashes and superficial  punctate keratitis 
(in  the  bid  group  only)  was  reported  for  the  bimatoprost  groups  than  for  the  timolol  group.  The 
majority of adverse events were mild. 
Adverse events led to discontinuation in 16 of 379 patients prior to month 24, with the distribution of 
5/167 (3.0%) in the bimatoprost qd treatment group, 7/131 (5.3%) in the bimatoprost bid group, and 
4/81 (4.9%) in the timolol group. Apart from 2 patients with allergic conjunctivitis, one patient with 
conjunctival  hyperaemia,  one  with  choroidal  folds  OD,  all  in  the  bid  group,  and  one  patient  with 
dyspnoea in the timolol group, these adverse events were not regarded as treatment related. 
Serious adverse events in this study were recorded for 15/167 (9.0%) of patients in the bimatoprost qd 
group,  for  14/131  (10.7%)  in  the  bimatoprost  bid  group,  and  for  9/81  (11.1%)  in  the  timolol  group. 
These differences were not statistically significant (p=0.836), and none were regarded as related to the 
study medication. 
One  or  more  adverse  events  were  reported  for  128/167  (76.6  %)  of  the  bimatoprost  qd  group,  for 
104/131 (79.4 %)  of the  bimatoprost  bid  group, and  for  55/81  (67.9  %) of the timolol  group. These 
figures do no differ statistically (p=0.160). 
The treatment-related adverse events reported, are shown in the table below. 
Number (%) of Patients with Treatment related, reported by ≥ 3.0% in Either Bimatoprost Treatment 
Group 
33/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
BODY SYSTEM 
Preferred Term 
Bimatoprost QD  
(N = 167) 
Bimatoprost BID  
(N = 131) 
Timolol 
(N = 81) 
Among-group 
P-valuea 
SPECIAL SENSES (OCULAR) 
22 (13.2%) 
21 (16.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
< 0.001 
11 (6.6%) 
8 (6.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0.037 
conjunctival 
hyperaemia 
growth of 
eyelashes 
eye pruritus 
superficial 
punctate keratitis 
Among-group p-value based on Fisher’s exact test. 
1 (0.6%) 
6 (4.6%) 
a 
5 (3.0%) 
1 (0.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0.193 
0.029 
A visual acuity deterioration of 2 or more lines from Day 0 baseline was reported for 18.0%, 17.6%, 
and 11.1% in the bimatoprost qd, bid and the timolol group, respectively. However, for the majority of 
patients,  namely  81.3%,  no  change  in  VA  was  reported.  Major  differences  among  the  three  groups 
were not found for the evaluation of ophthalmoscopy, cup/disc ratio and visual fields. 
The  biomicroscopy  examination  revealed  at  least  a  1-grade  increase  of  severity  from  baseline  for 
conjunctival hyperaemia in 43.1%, 49.6%, and 8.6% of patients in the bimatoprost qd, bid and timolol 
groups, respectively. This was a statistically greater percentage of patients in the bimatoprost groups 
compared with timolol.  Eyelash growth; lid blepharitis, and lid erythema were also more frequently 
reported in the bimatoprost groups. 
One  case  of  cystoid  macular  oedema,  not  considered  treatment  related,  was  reported  in  the 
bimatoprost  qd  group and 2 treatment-related severe cases,  namely  vitreous  haemorrhage  and visual 
disturbance, were noted in the bimatoprost qd group. 
No cases of intraocular inflammation or increased iris pigment were reported. 
Changes in laboratory parameters were unremarkable. 
Study 192024-014 (36 months): 
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  was  similar  for  the  three  groups  and  ranged  between  744  and 
1168 days, with 1086 days, 1072 days and 1078 days for the bimatoprost qd, bid, and timolol groups, 
respectively. For 82.5% of the study population the treatment duration was 36 months. 
One or more treatment related adverse events were reported in 28.9%, 34.0% and 25.6% of patients in 
the bimatoprost qd, bid/qd and timolol groups, respectively (p=0.674). Statistically significantly more 
patients  had  conjunctival  hyperaemia  in  the  bimatoprost  qd  and  bid/qd  groups  than  in  the  timolol 
group. The majority of treatment related adverse events were rated as mild. 
Three patients in the bimatoprost qd group and none in the two other groups were withdrawn because 
of adverse events. These adverse events were not regarded as treatment related. 
The  frequency  of  adverse  events  was  73/90  (81.1%),  42/50  (84  %)  and  32/43  (74.4  %)  in  the  three 
groups, bimatoprost bid/qd, and timolol treatment groups, respectively (p=0.512). 
The most commonly reported adverse event was again conjunctival hyperaemia, reported in 13.3% in 
the bimatoprost qd, 18% in the bimatoprost bid/qd, and 0% in the timolol group (p≤0.009). 
Treatment related adverse events, are shown in the table below. 
Number (%) of Patients with Treatment related Adverse Events, Reported by ≥ 3.0% in Any Treatment 
Group 
34/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
BODY SYSTEM 
Preferred Term 
Bimatoprost QD 
(N = 90) 
Bimatoprost 
BID/QD  
(N = 50) 
Timolol 
(N = 43) 
Among-group 
P-valuea 
SPECIAL SENSES (OCULAR) 
conjunctival 
hyperaemia 
foreign body 
sensation 
superficial punctate 
keratitis 
growth of eyelashes 
visual disturbance 
eye dryness 
eye pruritus 
cataract (nos) 
11 (12.2%) 
7 (14.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
 0.018 
3 (3.3%) 
1 (2.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0.810 
2 (2.2%) 
3 (6.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0.239 
2 (2.2%) 
1 (1.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (4.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (6.0%) 
2 (4.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (4.7%) 
1 (2.3%) 
1 (2.3%) 
2 (4.7%) 
0.568 
0.210 
0.040 
0.129 
0.054 
a 
Among-group p-value based on Fisher’s exact test. 
Serious adverse events were reported for 8/90 (9%), 5/50 (10%) and 6/43 (14%) in the bimatoprost qd, 
bimatoprost  bid/qd  and  timolol  group,  respectively.  The  investigators  did  not  judge  any  of  these 
adverse events to be treatment related.  
A visual acuity deterioration of 2 or more lines from Day 0 baseline was reported for 21.1%, 26.5%, 
and  18.6%  in  the  bimatoprost  qd,  bid/qd  and  the  timolol  group,  respectively.  However,  for  the 
majority of patients no change in VA was reported. The cup/disc ratio was unchanged for the majority 
of patients, but for 8/89 (9%) in the qd group a worsening was noted; this is opposed to 2% and 0% in 
the  bid/qd  and  timolol  group,  respectively.  However,  this  worsening  was  not  reflected  in  a 
deterioration of the visual field in these 8 patients. No statistical significant differences in change in 
mean deviation for visual field was observed (p=0.186). 
On  biomicroscopy,  an  increase  of  at  least  one  grade  in  severity  from  baseline  was  reported  for 
conjunctival  hyperaemia  in  50.0%,  46.0%  and  9.3%  of  patients  in  the  bimatoprost  qd,  bimatoprost 
bid/qd and timolol groups, respectively (p<0.001). For the majority of patients it was graded as trace 
to  moderate  and  the  mean  score  was  between  trace  and  mild  for  both  bimatoprost  groups  at  each 
follow-up visit. 
Laboratory measurements were unremarkable. 
No  cases  of  intraocular  inflammation  or  increase  in  iris  pigmentation  were  recorded  up  to  the 
36 months time point. 
In  the  12-24  months  study  the  rate  of  completion  of  study  period  was  78%,  67%,  and  81%  in  the 
bimatoprost  qd,  bimatoprost  bid  and  timolol  groups,  respectively.  In  the  24-36  months  study  the 
corresponding figures were 92%, 84% (bimatoprost bid/qd), and 86%, respectively. Thus a decrease in 
tolerability towards bimatoprost is not indicated. 
Study 192024-019: 
Treatment-related  adverse  events  were  reported  in  83/133  (62.4%)  and  45/136  (33.1%)  in  the  two 
groups (p<0.001), respectively. Conjunctival hyperaemia, growth of eyelashes and eye pruritus were 
all  statistically  significantly  higher  with  bimatoprost  than  with  latanoprost.    A  total  of  11  patients 
discontinued  because  of  adverse  events:  6/133  (4.5%)  in  the  bimatoprost  and  5/136  (3.7%)  in  the 
latanoprost group. This difference was not statistically significant (p=0.768). The leading cause in the 
bimatoprost group was conjunctival hyperaemia with 3/133 patients (2.3%).   
35/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events were reported for 3.0% and 5.9%, in the bimatoprost and latanoprost groups, 
respectively (p=0.377). None were judged to be treatment related. 
The visual acuity remained unchanged during the study for the majority of the patients in both groups, 
i.e. for 93.1% and 91.9%, in the bimatoprost and latanoprost groups, respectively. A statistically, but 
presumably not clinical relevant difference in favour of latanoprost (0.2 versus 0.4 in line number) was 
noted  for  the  VA  mean  change.  The  cup/disc  ratio  was  unchanged  for  approximately  98%  of  the 
patients in both groups. 
Parameters  related  to  progression  of  glaucoma,  i.e.  cup/disc  ratio,  visual  field  and  ophthalmoscopy, 
were  unremarkable  for  both  groups  in  this  study.  This  is  consistent  with  the  usually  rather  slow 
progression of these signs. 
Slit  lamp  biomicroscopy  revealed  a  significant  higher  frequency  of  findings  reported  for  the 
bimatoprost than for the latanoprost group: 48.9% versus 22.1% (p<0.001). This was dominated by the 
difference in the incidence of increase from baseline in severity of conjunctival erythema/hyperaemia: 
39.1% versus 14.7% (p<0.001). However, the mean grades of hyperaemia were low for both groups 
being  0.55  and  0.28  (on  the  0-3  scale)  in  the  bimatoprost  and  latanoprost  groups,  respectively 
(p<0.001) at month 1. 
One  case  of  iritis  was  reported  in  the  latanoprost  group,  no  cases  of  ocular  inflammation  were 
recorded in the bimatoprost group. Cases of cystoid macular oedema were not reported in either group. 
Because  of  technical  issues  38%  of  the  photographs  taken  to  evaluate  changes  in  iris  pigmentation 
were unevaluable, and the analysis was therefore not done.  One case of increase in iris pigmentation 
was noted clinically in the bimatoprost group at 6 months, and none in the latanoprost group. 
The CPMP requested the MAH to provide in tabulated form the adverse events related to the exposure 
occurred  during  the  bimatoprost/latanoprost  comparison  study,  as  well  as  the  rates  and  reasons  for 
discontinuation in both the latanoprost and bimatoprost group.  
The  MAH  provided  a  review  of  the  most  prevalent  adverse  events  with  particular  attention  to  the 
mean time to onset, discontinuations rates and reasons for discontinuation.  The CPMP concluded that 
the rate of discontinuation was low and no particular pattern of reasons for withdrawal is evident in 
any of the groups.  The incidence of conjunctival hyperaemia is, in keeping with previous information, 
higher with bimatoprost than with latanoprost. 
Studies contributing supportive data, 192024-013 and 192024–015: 
In study 192024-013 more patients in the Cosopt than in the bimatoprost group, namely 49.4% versus 
44.4%  (p=0.507)  reported  treatment-related  adverse  events.  Hyperaemia  was  recorded  in  34.4% 
patients in the bimatoprost group as opposed to 17.2% of the patients in the Cosopt group (p=0.009). 
Three  patients  in  each  group  discontinued  because  of  ocular  adverse  events.  Three  serious  adverse 
events, which were considered not treatment related, were reported in the bimatoprost group. 
In study 192024-015 no statistically significant differences in the overall incidence of reported adverse 
event  were  noted  for  the  two  treatment  periods.  Treatment  related  adverse  events  were  recorded  for 
20.5%  and  21.6%  of  the  bimatoprost  and  timolol+latanoprost  period,  respectively.  There  were  no 
reports of intraocular inflammation, iris pigmentation or cystoid macular oedema. 
Safety in special populations 
Since  bimatoprost  has  been  in  the  marketplace,  occasional  questions  have  arisen  from  prescribers 
relating  to  the  labelled  undesirable  effect  of  elevated  liver  function  tests.  Focusing  on  the  pertinent 
liver function tests, the original review of the overall clinical trial 12-month data showed that the vast 
majority of patients had baseline values between the lower limit of normal and twice the upper limit of 
normal. These values remained relatively unchanged in all treatment groups in this time-period. Where 
there appeared to be clinically relevant worsening, it was possible to document a medical history or a 
concomitant medication, which could at least possibly explain the abnormality. However, to address 
the question further, a full review of patients with hepatic dysfunction was performed.  
36/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Patients  with  hepatic  dysfunction  were  studied.  They  included  those  with  a  history  of  mild  liver 
disease  at  time  of  start  of  the  Phase  III  development  programme  and/or  those  patients  with  one  or 
more abnormal liver function tests at baseline (defined as 1.5 times the upper limit of normal range for 
relevant  parameters).  All  patients  who  were  randomised  to  study  medication  were  followed.  In 
addition, those who then participated in the extension study, both Months 24 and 36, was described. A 
total of 41 patients enrolled with a pre-existing history of liver function disease and/or abnormal liver 
function  tests  at  baseline.  Of  these,  18  received  bimatoprost  QD,  12  received  bimatoprost  BID  and 
11 patients  were  randomised  to  the  timolol  arm.  Of  these  8,  2  and  2 patients,  respectively,  enrolled 
into the Month 24 extension. Over the course of the two years none of the 41 patients discontinued the 
study due to changes in liver function. 
In  addition,  although  it  is  understood  that  ophthalmologists  will  not  be  routinely  assessing  liver 
function,  there  have  been  no  spontaneous  reports  of  elevated  liver  function  from  the  post-marketing 
area. 
In  summary,  although  the  numbers  are  relatively  small,  it  can  be  concluded  that  patients  with  prior 
hepatic  dysfunction  are  not  at  increased  risk  of  worsening  of  established  disease.  However  in  their 
Request for Supplementary Information the CPMP requested submission of hepatic safety tabular data 
describing the incidence of changes from baseline and the magnitude of such changes in all patients, 
not only from those with baseline hepatic impairment.  
The MAH in its responses reviewed all normal to high shifts in the patients’ liver function parameters, 
ALT, AST and bilirubin. Occurrences of repeated high values were also analysed. The vast majority 
represented  shifts  to  up  to  1.5  times  the  upper  limit  of  value,  with  a  few  cases  of  values  above 
2.5 times  the  upper  limit  of  normal  value.  These  cases  were  evenly  distributed  across  the  three 
treatment groups, bimatoprost qd, bid, and timolol groups. 
Isolated  cases  have  been  reported  in  all  treatment  groups.  The  frequency  is  similar  in  the  two 
bimatoprost  dosing  regimen  groups,  which  is  reassuring.  Moreover,  a  worsening  in  the  hepatic 
function parameters during the 3-year study period was not noted. 
Post-marketing surveillance 
The first Lumigan Periodic Safety Update Report covering the period from European launch in March 
2002  till  September  2002  was  reviewed  by  the  CPMP  and  overall  it  was  concluded  that  the  safety 
profile did not raise any signals of concern and recommended that the SPC should remain unchanged.   
A  further  review  of  the  post  marketing  experience  from  September  2002  until  February  15,  2003 
reports was performed specifically for this submission. Only two unexpected serious events have been 
received.  These  were  of  a  seizure  with  no  other  reports  of  seizure  received  in  that  time-period.  The 
second  case  was  of  a  tear  in  the  posterior  capsule  with  associated  ocular  pain,  blurred  vision  and 
nausea.  In  both  cases  the  relationship  to  bimatoprost  was  unknown.  Review  of  the  suspected 
treatment-related non-serious adverse events reveals no obvious pattern. 
Specific adverse events (iris pigmentation, eyelash growth, conjunctival hyperaemia and cystoid 
macula oedema) 
The  adverse  events  of  particular  interest  namely  iritis,  uveitis,  cystoid  macular  oedema  and  iridial 
pigmentation were not reported in the time period from month 12 to month 36 in study 192024-014. 
Just under 100 patients have been followed for a full 3 years.  
There were only 2.2% new cases of eyelash growth reported in the time period between month 24 and 
month  36  and  6.6%  in  the  preceding  12  months.  Since  the  study  instructions  demanded  that  new 
adverse  events  or  a  worsening  of  severity  of  established  adverse  events  be  reported,  it  appears  that 
eyelash growth is an early reaction to treatment that does not worsen over time.   
There  were  approximately  13%  new  cases  of  conjunctival  hyperaemia  reported  in  each  of  the 
12-month  time  periods  studied  in  192024-014.  As  observed  previously,  the  reports  in  the  long-term 
studies  were  also  primarily  mild  in  severity.  Conjunctival  hyperaemia  was  not  responsible  for  any 
discontinuation of bimatoprost QD therapy at either the 2-year or 3-year timepoints. 
37/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Comparison of the safety profile of bimatoprost to latanoprost (studies 192024-010 and -019) shows a 
lower  incidence  of  conjunctival  hyperaemia  favouring  latanoprost.  However,  the  impact  on  patients 
appears minimal since the mean satisfaction score reported by patients receiving bimatoprost was not 
statistically significantly different from that in patients receiving latanoprost.   
Furthermore, a review of the incidence of conjunctival hyperaemia over the 6-month period based on 
slit lamp findings showed that, although the incidence of positive (mild, moderate or severe) findings 
is  higher  for  bimatoprost  than  for  latanoprost  on  starting  therapy,  this  incidence  falls  by  month  6 
whilst  the  incidence  for  latanoprost  remains  essentially  unchanged  over  the  6-month  study  period. 
This is reflected also on reviewing the mean hyperaemia severity grade scores where a decrease from 
0.55 at month 1 to 0.42 at month 6 is seen for bimatoprost whilst the equivalent score for latanoprost is 
steady  in  the  region  of  0.3  throughout  the  time-period.  It  must  be  remembered  that  a  score  of  0.5 
denotes a ‘trace’ observation. The severity of the conjunctival hyperaemia associated with bimatoprost 
therefore  diminishes  over  time.  It  is  not  of  an  inflammatory  nature  with  no  clinically  significant 
changes in laser flare meter readings seen throughout the 12-month dosing period during which such 
readings were taken. In addition pre-clinical data suggest that the hyperaemia is primarily a result of 
vasodilatation. 
Of  particular  importance  is  the  incidence  of  iridial  pigmentation  associated  with  bimatoprost.  The 
incidence was 1.5% at the 12-month stage. There have been no further new cases reported in either of 
the two subsequent 12-month follow-up periods. Therefore the incidence remains at 1.5% at 3 years. 
One case was seen in the 6 months comparison with latanoprost. 
Although the frequency of increased iris pigmentation is less than other prostaglandin analogues the 
long-term  consequences  of  this  are  not  known.  The  MAH  was  therefore  asked  by  the  CPMP  to 
indicate  their  plans  for  long  term  follow-up  of  patients  who  have  iris  pigmentation  and  also  for 
monitoring for the occurrence of trabecular meshwork pigmentation in long-term treated patients. 
The  MAH responded that  with the purpose  of long-term follow-up  of  patients  who  have changes  in 
iris  pigmentation  and  to  monitor  the  occurrence  of  trabecular  meshwork  pigmentation  in  long  term 
treated patients the following had been planned: 
- 
In Study 192024-014 a gonioscopy will be performed at Month 48 in the further study extension 
to Month 48 and compared with that already performed at Month 36. 
-  A study comparing the amount of pigmentation in the trabecular meshwork obtained in specimen 
collected during trabeculectomy surgery will be conducted. 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  amount  of  data  to  be  obtained  of  the  long-term  consequences  of  the 
increased iris pigmentation by the planned investigation appears scarce and asked the MAH to provide 
proposal for a commitment to further study the safety of Lumigan in the first line treatment of raised 
intraocular pressure.  
The  MAH  outlined  the  programme  intended  to  further  study  iris  pigment  changes,  as  well  as  the 
general safety of bimatoprost in the first line indication. It included: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Performance  of  a  prospective,  observational  study  to  collect  safety  and  efficacy  data  from 
patients treated for open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension with bimatoprost, latanoprost or 
travoprost. A follow-up of up to 3 years is planned.  
To provide the report from the ongoing masked evaluation to acquire efficacy and safety data 
from a total of 4 years bimatoprost exposure (study 192024-014) 
To  provide  the  report  of  the  5-year  safety  data  from  Study  MM-HTL-001,  which  enrolled 
patients who completed study 192024-014 into a 1-year open-label study 
To perform study 192024-029. In this study samples will be obtained of trabecular meshwork at 
time  of  trabeculectomy  for  histological  assessment.  This  will  be  a  masked  evaluation  of 
inflammation, 
pigmentation  and  will 
degeneration etc. as already described 
include  assessment  of  histological  evidence  of 
The MAH committed to the above programme and this was considered acceptable by the CPMP. 
38/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The  company  has  developed  a  product  of  satisfactory  quality  in  relation  to  the  clinical  use,  i.e.  a 
buffered, sterile, isotonic solution that is preserved against microbial contamination during storage and 
use.  The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  and  provides  a  satisfactory  assurance  that  the 
product  will  be  sterile  when  opened  for  the  first  time.  Methods  used  for  batch  control  and  stability 
studies have been validated and should ensure a product of reproducible quality. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  carried  out  to  assess  the  IOP  decreasing  effect  of  bimatoprost. 
Bimatoprost  increases  uveoscleral  outflow  in  monkeys  and  not  in  dogs  but  its  exact  mechanism  of 
action is not known. The applicant has conducted a receptor panel screen with bimatoprost. The results 
show  that  bimatoprost  has  no  interaction  with  cannabinoid  receptors  (CB1,  CB2),  and  over  100 
receptor  targets,  ion  channels,  and  transporters.  The  prostamide  receptor  has  not  been  structurally 
identified.  Bimatoprost  does  not  interact  with  known  prostaglandin  receptors,  including  the  FP 
receptor, which is thought to be involved in the decrease of IOP caused by PGF2α analogues such as 
latanoprost.  
Results  from  a  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies  did  not  show  any 
pharmacological effects that were not expected for this type of substance. 
Based on the preclinical reproduction toxicity results, it is recommended that Lumigan should not be 
used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Efficacy 
Six phase III studies were initially submitted (4 in the original dossier and 2 in the response to List of 
questions).  The  trials  were  conducted  in  patients  with  open  angle  glaucoma,  ocular  hypertension, 
pseudoexfoliative glaucoma or pigmentary glaucoma or closed-angle glaucoma with patent iridotomy. 
Data  for  a  period  of  a  maximum  of  12  months  (monotherapy)  had  been  presented.  In  summary, 
bimatoprost  0.03%  in  monotherapy  was  superior  to  timolol.  As  part  of  the  response  to  LoQ  the 
company  submitted  further  6  and  9  months  data  on  monotherapy  and  adjunctive  therapy  (extension 
study  502)  respectively.  This  study  showed  a  consistent  IOP-decreasing  effect  of  bimatoprost  qd 
adjunctively  to  a  topical  beta-blocker  for  up  to  12  months.  Statistically  significant  changes  from  3-
months  values  in  the  IOP  were  also  seen  in  those  patients  who  started  with  vehicle/beta-blocker 
switched to bimatoprost/beta-blocker regimen. 
Overall,  bimatoprost  0.03%  qd  is  effective  in  lowering  IOP  in  patients  with  chronic  open  angle 
glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In the initial application, efficacy was confirmed for up to twelve 
months in both monotherapy and adjunctive therapy.  
For  the  subsequent  application  for  first  line  therapy  the  MAH  submitted  two  main  clinical  studies: 
bimatoprost monotherapy versus timolol and bimatoprost monotherapy versus latanoprost. In addition, 
two  further  studies  provided  supportive  data:  bimatoprost  monotherapy  versus  a  fixed  combination 
and  bimatoprost  versus  adjunctive  therapy.  A  review  of  all  available  published  literature  was  also 
submitted. The submission included evidence for a consistent IOP decreasing efficacy over 36 months 
of bimatoprost applied once daily. It was demonstrated in comparison with the well-established first 
line therapy timolol, where a clinically and statistically superior effect was seen. Moreover, a superior 
effect compared to the established first line prostaglandin agonist latanoprost was shown in a 6 months 
comparison. In light of the increasing awareness of the significance of achieving low IOP values in the 
treatment of open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension these results are important. 
Safety 
The initial clinical development programme for bimatoprost 0.03%  ophthalmic solution consisted of 
13 phase I to III studies which provided a safety database of 2326 patients with glaucoma or exposed 
to a variety of concentrations and dosing regimen of bimatoprost. Of these 1708 ocular hypertension 
39/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
or  normal  subjects,  including  1708 patients  or  normal  subjects  who  were  patients,  1219  received  a 
concentration/regimen of bimatoprost alone and 489 bimatoprost in combination with a topical beta-
blocker. The remaining 618 patients or normal subjects received active control or vehicle. 
As  part  of  the  response  to  LOQ  the  company  submitted  12  month  safety  data  from  the  two 
monotherapy  studies  (008  and  009),  9/12  month  safety  data  from  the  adjunctive  therapy  extension 
study 502 as well as 3 months safety data from two phase IIIb studies not previously reported. 
Overall,  the  safety  profile  would  seem  acceptable.  However,  in  view  of  the  adverse  events  pattern 
being inferior to that of relevant standard approved treatment options (timolol), only the second line 
therapeutic indication was initially considered appropriate. Apart from certain adverse events that are 
not  considered  of  major  clinical  importance,  the  safety  profile  of  Lumigan  is  comparable  to  that  of 
other approved second-line treatment options. 
For the  subsequent application for first  line therapy data were  provided for  up to  36  months  of  use. 
The  safety  profile  seems  reassuring  regarding  the  characteristic  risk  factors  (iris  pigmentation, 
intraocular inflammation and cystoid macular oedema). Overall, the safety data provided confirm the 
established safety profile of Lumigan. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall,  bimatoprost  0.03%  qd  is  effective  in  lowering  IOP  in  patients  with  chronic  open  angle 
glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension.  Consistent  efficacy  has  been  confirmed  for  up  to  36  months  as 
monotherapy and 12 months for adjunctive therapy.   
Overall, the safety profile would seem acceptable. The incidence of conjunctival hyperaemia, growth 
of  eyelashes,  and  eye  pruritus  was  statistically  significantly  higher  with  bimatoprost  than  with 
latanoprost,  however,  the  discontinuation  rates  due  to  adverse  events  were  low  and  without 
statistically significant difference. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Lumigan  in  the  treatment  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in  chronic 
glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension  (as  monotherapy  or  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  beta-blockers)  was 
favourable. 
40/40 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
