EMA/685702/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005522 
Lumykras (sotorasib) 
An overview of Lumykras and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lumykras and what is it used for? 
Lumykras is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with  non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) when the 
cancer is advanced, and its cells have a particular genetic change. The change is in the gene KRAS and 
is known as ‘KRAS G12C’. Lumykras is given when the disease has progressed after receiving systemic 
treatment (treatment  affecting the  whole body). 
Lumykras contains the active substance sotorasib. 
How is Lumykras used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with  a prescription, and treatment with  Lumykras should be started 
by a doctor who is experienced in using cancer medicines.  
The patient’s cancer should be tested before starting treatment  to confirm it  has the  genetic change 
affecting KRAS (KRAS G12C). 
Lumykras is available as tablets  and is taken by mouth. The recommended dose is 960 mg once per 
day. Treatment is continued until  the disease gets worse or side effects become too severe. 
If certain side effects develop, the  doctor may decide to reduce the  dose to 480  mg once per day and 
then, if needed, to 240 mg once per day. Treatment should be stopped if side effects are too great at 
the lowest dose (240 mg). 
For more information about using Lumykras, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
How does Lumykras work? 
Genetic changes to the KRAS gene can produce an altered protein that  causes the uncontrolled growth 
of cancer cells. The active substance in Lumykras, sotorasib, attaches to this  altered protein inside 
cancer cells. This blocks the protein from acting, interrupting  the chemical messages the cancer cells 
need for growing and spreading, and it  also encourages processes that cause the cancer cells to die.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Lumykras have been shown in studies? 
In one main study involving 124 patients,  Lumykras was effective in treating adults with  NSCLC with 
the KRAS G12C genetic change whose disease had progressed after previously being treated with  other 
cancer medicines. Lumykras was not  compared with any other treatment or placebo (a dummy 
treatment). 
Response to treatment (shrinkage in the size of the cancer) was assessed using body scans. Around 
37% (46  out of 124) of the patients  showed partial or complete cancer shrinkage after treatment with 
Lumykras. On average, responses lasted for just over 11 months. 
What are the risks associated with Lumykras? 
The most common side effects with  Lumykras (which  may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and tiredness. The most common severe side effects with Lumykras 
(which may affect up to  1 in 100 people) are increased levels of certain liver enzymes (a sign of 
possible liver problems) and liver injury. For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Lumykras, 
see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lumykras authorised in the EU? 
There are currently few treatment options for patients with  advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C 
mutations  for whom the cancer has progressed after systemic treatment with  cancer medicines, and 
current treatments have limited effectiveness. Although the  main study  did not compare Lumykras 
with  another cancer treatment, it showed that  the medicine was effective at treating  the cancer 
including in  patients whose cancer had progressed after several different treatments. In general, 
Lumykras’ side effects were considered manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency, therefore, decided that  Lumykras’ benefits are greater than  its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Lumykras has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that  becomes available and this  overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Lumykras? 
Since Lumykras has been given conditional authorisation,  the company that  markets Lumykras will 
provide further information from an ongoing study. The study will compare the efficacy and safety of 
Lumykras in treating previously treated NSCLC with  KRAS G12C mutation with  those of another cancer 
medicine, docetaxel.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lumykras? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Lumykras have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lumykras are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Lumykras are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Lumykras (sotorasib)  
EMA/685702/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Lumykras 
Lumykras received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the  EU on 06 January 2022 
Further information on Lumykras can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lumykras.  
This overview was last updated in  01-2021. 
Lumykras (sotorasib)  
EMA/685702/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
