EMA/318043/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005680 
Lunsumio (mosunetuzumab) 
An overview of Lunsumio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lunsumio and what is it used for? 
Lunsumio is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with follicular lymphoma that does not respond to 
(refractory) or has come back (relapsed) after at least two previous treatments. 
Follicular lymphoma is rare, and Lunsumio was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 16 November 2021. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/EU3212517. 
Lunsumio contains the active substance mosunetuzumab. 
How is Lunsumio used? 
Lunsumio can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given under the supervision of a doctor 
who is qualified in the use of cancer medicines, in a location with appropriate medical support to 
manage severe side effects such as cytokine release syndrome (see risks section below). 
Lunsumio is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. Infusions with Lunsumio should be given once a 
week in the first cycle, then once every three weeks for subsequent cycles (each cycle takes three 
weeks), for a total of 8 treatment cycles. However, depending on side effects and how the disease 
responds to treatment, up to 17 cycles may be given. For the first cycle, infusions should last four 
hours, but subsequent infusions may be given more quickly if treatment is tolerated well. The doctor 
may interrupt or stop treatment if the patient develops certain serious side effects. 
For more information about using Lunsumio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lunsumio work? 
Follicular lymphoma is a cancer that affects a type of white blood cell called B lymphocyte. The active 
substance in Lunsumio, mosunetuzumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been 
designed to attach to CD20, a protein found on B lymphocytes, including the cancer cells, and to CD3, 
a protein on T cells (a different type of white blood cell). T cells are a part of the body’s defences and 
help protect the body from infection. They can also destroy cancer cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
By binding to the CD20 and CD3 proteins, the medicine acts like a bridge to bring together the cancer 
cells and T cells. This encourages the T cells to destroy the cancer cells and helps control the disease. 
What benefits of Lunsumio have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Lunsumio were evaluated in a study in adults with relapsed or refractory follicular 
lymphoma who had received at least two previous therapies. In this study, Lunsumio was not 
compared with other medicines. In response to treatment, the cancer shrank or disappeared in 80% 
(72 out of 90) of patients, while 60% (54 out of 90) of patients achieved a complete response (no sign 
of cancer). On average, responses lasted for at least 12 months in 62% of patients. 
What are the risks associated with Lunsumio? 
The most common side effects with Lunsumio (which may affect more than 2 in 10 people) are 
cytokine release syndrome (a potentially life-threatening condition causing fever, vomiting, shortness 
of breath, headache and low blood-pressure), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white 
blood cell), fever, low levels of phosphate in the blood and headache. The most common serious side 
effects included cytokine release syndrome, fever and pneumonia (infection of the lungs). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Lunsumio, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lunsumio authorised in the EU? 
Patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma have limited treatment options. Treatment 
with Lunsumio resulted in a complete response in a high proportion of these patients, and side effects 
were considered generally manageable and acceptable. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Lunsumio’s benefits are greater than its risks and that it can be authorised for use in the 
EU. 
Lunsumio has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available. This medicine overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Lunsumio? 
Since Lunsumio has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Lunsumio will 
provide results from an ongoing study comparing Lunsumio with rituximab, both given with 
lenalidomide, in patients with follicular lymphoma who had at least one previous treatment for their 
disease. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lunsumio? 
The company that markets Lunsumio must provide patient cards with information about key signs and 
symptoms of cytokine release syndrome, and when and where to seek help if such signs occur. This 
card will also inform healthcare professionals that the patient is receiving Lunsumio. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lunsumio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lunsumio are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Lunsumio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Lunsumio (mosunetuzumab)  
EMA/318043/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Lunsumio 
Lunsumio received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 3 June 2022. 
Further information on Lunsumio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Lunsumio 
This overview was last updated in 06-2022. 
Lunsumio (mosunetuzumab)  
EMA/318043/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
