ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lupkynis 7.9 mg soft capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each soft capsule contains 7.9 mg of voclosporin. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each soft capsule contains 21.6 mg ethanol and 28.7 mg sorbitol. 
Lupkynis may contain trace amounts of soya lecithin, see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Soft capsule (capsule) 
Pink/orange oval soft capsules measuring approximately 13 mm × 6 mm. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lupkynis is indicated in combination with mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of adult patients 
with active class III, IV or V (including mixed class III/V and IV/V) lupus nephritis (LN). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Lupkynis treatment should be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of lupus nephritis. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 23.7 mg (three 7.9 mg soft capsules), twice daily. 
It is recommended that Lupkynis is administered consistently as close to a 12-hour schedule as 
possible and with a minimum of 8 hours between each dose. If a dose is missed, it should be taken as 
soon as possible within 4 hours after missing the dose; beyond the 4-hour time frame, the next regular 
dose should be taken at the usual scheduled time. The next dose should not be doubled. 
Lupkynis should be used in combination with mycophenolate mofetil. 
Physicians should evaluate the efficacy of treatment at a time point of at least 24 weeks and make an 
appropriate risk-benefit analysis for continuation of therapy. 
Dose adjustment based on eGFR 
It is recommended to establish a baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) before starting 
treatment with voclosporin, and assess every two weeks for the first month, and every four weeks 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thereafter. 
Dose adjustments are required for those individuals whose eGFR is confirmed to be reduced (i.e., two 
consecutive assessments within 48 hours) and below 60 mL/min/1.73 m2. If eGFR remains ≥ 60 
mL/min/1.73 m2 no dose modification is required (see table 1). 
Table 1: Recommended dose adjustments based on eGFR 
Confirmed eGFR 
decrease from baseline1 
≥ 30 % reduction 
> 20 % and < 30 % 
reduction 
≤ 20 % reduction 
Recommendation 
Stop administration of voclosporin. Restart treatment upon eGFR 
recovery at 7.9 mg (1 capsule) twice daily and increase as tolerated 
based on renal function. 
Reduce dose of voclosporin by 7.9 mg (1 capsule) twice daily. 
Retest within two weeks; if eGFR decrease has not recovered, reduce 
dose by further 7.9 mg (one capsule) twice daily.  
Maintain current dose and monitor. 
1 
If eGFR remains ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 no action is required 
It is recommended that patients requiring a reduction in dose are reassessed for eGFR recovery within 
two weeks. For patients that had a decrease in dose due to eGFR reduction, increasing the dose by 7.9 
mg twice a day for each eGFR measurement that is ≥ 80 % of baseline should be considered; the 
starting dose should not be exceeded. 
Co-administration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
When co-administering Lupkynis with moderate cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A4 inhibitors (e.g., 
verapamil, fluconazole, diltiazem), daily dose must be reduced to 15.8 mg in the morning and 7.9 mg 
in the evening (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B, respectively), the 
recommended starting dose is 15.8 mg twice daily. The effect of voclosporin in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) has not been assessed and voclosporin is not recommended 
in this patient population (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Careful monitoring of renal function is recommended (see table 1 and section 4.4). Limited data are 
available on the use of Lupkynis in patients with baseline eGFR 30 to < 45 mL/min/1.73 m2. It is 
recommended to use Lupkynis in these patients, only if the benefit outweighs the risk, and at a starting 
dose of 23.7 mg twice daily. 
Lupkynis has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) 
and is not recommended in these patients unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If used, the 
recommended starting dose is 15.8 mg twice daily (see section 5.2). 
Elderly 
Data are limited in LN patients > 65 years, and there are no data in patients aged > 75 years. Lupkynis 
is not recommended in patients > 75 years of age (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Lupkynis in children and adolescents aged 5 to 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available.  
There is no relevant use of Lupkynis in children below the age of 5 years in lupus nephritis. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The soft capsules must be swallowed whole and can be taken with or without food. 
It is recommended not to take Lupkynis with grapefruit or grapefruit juice (see section 4.5). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Co-administration of voclosporin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
clarithromycin) (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Lymphomas and other malignancies 
Immunosuppressants increase the risk of developing lymphomas and other malignancies, particularly 
of the skin. It is recommended that patients are advised to avoid or limit unprotected exposure to 
sunlight and UV light. 
Serious infections 
Immunosuppressants, including voclosporin, may increase the risk of developing bacterial, viral, 
fungal, and protozoal infections, including opportunistic infections which may be serious or fatal (see 
section 4.8). Patients must be monitored closely for infections during treatment with voclosporin. If an 
infection occurs, the benefit of continuing voclosporin should be assessed in consideration of the risk 
of continued administration. 
Renal toxicity 
As with other calcineurin-inhibitors, adverse reactions of acute worsening of renal function or eGFR 
decreases have been seen in patients treated with voclosporin. In the first four weeks of treatment with 
voclosporin, haemodynamic reductions in eGFR have been observed (see section 4.8). This can be 
managed by dose adjustments. Regular monitoring of eGFR levels is recommended (see section 4.2). 
Pure red cell aplasia 
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) have been reported in patients treated with a different 
calcineurin inhibitor. All of these patients had risk factors for PRCA, such as a parvovirus B19 
infection, a primary disease or concomitant treatments associated with PRCA. The mechanism of 
PRCA due to calcineurin inhibitors has not been clarified. If PRCA is diagnosed, discontinuation of 
Lupkynis should be considered. 
Hyperkalaemia 
Hyperkalaemia, which may be serious and require treatment, has been reported with calcineurin 
inhibitors, including voclosporin (see section 4.8). Concomitant use of medicinal products associated 
with hyperkalaemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)) may increase the risk of hyperkalaemia. It is 
recommended that patients are monitored for serum potassium levels periodically during treatment. 
Hypertension 
Voclosporin can cause or worsen systemic hypertension (see section 4.8). Blood pressure should be 
monitored every two weeks for the first month after initiating voclosporin, and as clinically indicated 
thereafter. In the event of clinically concerning elevated blood pressure, the recommendations in table 
2 should be followed. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Recommendations for management of hypertension 
Blood pressure 
Recommendation 
Systolic pressure > 130 and ≤ 165 mmHg 
and 
Diastolic pressure > 80 and ≤ 105 mmHg 
Blood pressure > 165/105 mmHg, with 
symptoms of hypertension 
Antihypertensive therapy may be 
initiated/adjusted 
Stop administration of voclosporin and 
initiate/adjust antihypertensive therapy 
QT prolongation 
The use of voclosporin in combination with other medicinal products that are known to prolong QTc 
may result in clinically significant QT prolongation. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of 
the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of medicinal 
products that prolong the QTc interval, including bradycardia; hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia; 
concomitant use of other medicinal products that prolong the QTc interval; and the presence of 
congenital prolongation of the QT interval. 
Neurotoxicity 
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapies, including voclosporin, are at increased risk of 
neurotoxicity (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for new-onset or worsening of 
neurological symptoms including seizures, tremors, or signs and symptoms suggestive of posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) and reduction or discontinuation of voclosporin should 
be considered if these occur. 
Hepatic impairment 
Voclosporin has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) 
and, therefore, it is not recommended for use in this patient population. 
Vaccination 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination, and vaccination during treatment with 
voclosporin may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided. 
Concomitant use with other medicinal products 
Co-administration of voclosporin with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
The safety and efficacy of voclosporin have not been established in combination with 
cyclophosphamide. 
Excipients 
Ethanol 
This medicinal product contains 21.6 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each soft capsule. Therefore, a dose of 
23.7 mg of Lupkynis contains 64.8 mg ethanol. The amount in each 23.7 mg dose of this medicinal 
product is equivalent to less than 2 mL beer or 1 mL wine. The small amount of alcohol in this 
medicinal product will not have any noticeable effects. 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 28.7 mg of sorbitol in each soft capsule. The additive effect of 
concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and dietary intake of sorbitol (or 
fructose) should be taken into account. The content of sorbitol in medicinal products for oral use may 
affect the bioavailability of other medicinal products for oral use administered concomitantly. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soya lecithin (potential residue from manufacturing process) 
This medicinal product may contain trace amounts of soya lecithin. Patients who have experienced 
anaphylactic reactions to soya or peanut, must not use this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Voclosporin is metabolised by CYP3A4 and is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and organic-
anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1 and OATP1B3. 
Potential for other medicinal products to affect voclosporin exposure 
Voclosporin is metabolised by CYP3A4. Concomitant use of medicinal products or herbal remedies 
known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of voclosporin and thereby increase or 
decrease voclosporin blood levels. 
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Voclosporin exposure was 18.6-fold higher in the presence of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor 
ketoconazole compared to voclosporin administered alone. Co-administration of voclosporin with 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin) is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Voclosporin exposure was 2.71-fold higher in the presence of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor 
verapamil compared to voclosporin administration alone. Reduce the dose to 15.8 mg in the morning 
and 7.9 mg in the evening when voclosporin is co-administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
(e.g., verapamil, fluconazole, erythromycin, diltiazem, grapefruit and grapefruit juice, see section 4.2). 
Mild CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase voclosporin exposure, but no in vivo study has been performed. 
No dose adjustment is required when voclosporin is co-administered with mild CYP3A4 inhibitors but 
additional monitoring of eGFR is recommended when initiating treatment with a mild CYP3A4 
inhibitor. 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Voclosporin exposure was 87 % lower and maximum concentration (Cmax) was 68 % lower in the 
presence of the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin (600 mg once daily for 10 consecutive days) 
compared to voclosporin administration alone. Co-administration of multiple doses of moderate 
CYP3A4 inducers are also expected to result in clinically relevant decreases of voclosporin exposure. 
Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampicin, St John’s 
Wort, efavirenz) are not recommended to be dosed concomitantly with voclosporin (see section 4.4). 
Mild inducers of CYP3A4 may also result in decreased exposure and possibly a decreased effect, but 
the clinical relevance is unknown. 
Potential for voclosporin to affect exposure to other medicinal products 
P-gp substrates 
Voclosporin is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Concomitant administration of voclosporin with 
multiple doses of digoxin increased digoxin Cmax and area under the curve (AUC) by 1.51-fold and 
1.25-fold, respectively. Caution must be exercised in case of co-administration of voclosporin with 
sensitive P-gp substrates, especially those with narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran 
etexilate, fexofenadine) where patients should be appropriately monitored as outlined in respective 
product labelling. 
OATP1B1/OATP1B3 substrates 
Voclosporin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. In one clinical study the 
concomitant administration of a single 40 mg dose of simvastatin with 23.7 mg BID voclosporin 
increased Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite simvastatin acid (a sensitive OATP1B1/OATP1B3 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substrate) by 3.1-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively. In the same study, exposure of the parent drug 
simvastatin (which is also a BCRP substrate) was unaffected in terms of AUC while its Cmax increased 
by 1.6-fold, which could potentially be attributed to an interaction between intestinal BCRP and 
voclosporin. Patients should be monitored for adverse events such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis 
when OATP1B1/OATP1B3 substrates (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin) are 
used concomitantly with voclosporin. 
BCRP substrates 
Voclosporin inhibits breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro. A clinically relevant inhibition 
of intestinal BCRP cannot be excluded and voclosporin may increase the concentration of these 
substrates in vivo. Monitor use of BCRP substrates where small concentration changes may lead to 
serious toxicity (e.g., rosuvastatin) when used concomitantly with voclosporin. 
MMF 
Co-administration of voclosporin with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) had no clinically significant 
impact on mycophenolic acid (MPA) blood concentrations. 
CYP3A4 substrates 
Multiple administrations of voclosporin orally (0.4 mg/kg twice daily) had no clinically relevant effect 
on the pharmacokinetics of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) from the use of 
voclosporin in pregnant women. Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Lupkynis is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether voclosporin/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available 
pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of voclosporin/metabolites in 
milk (for details see section 5.3). A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
Lupkynis therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effect of voclosporin on human fertility. In animal studies, voclosporin-
related changes in the male reproductive tract were observed (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lupkynis has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions with use of voclosporin are decreased eGFR (26.2 %) 
and hypertension (19.1 %). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently reported serious adverse reactions with use of voclosporin were infections (10.1 
%), acute kidney injury (3 %) and hypertension (1.9 %). 
In the first 4 weeks of treatment with voclosporin, haemodynamic reductions in eGFR are commonly 
experienced, which subsequently stabilise, even if treatment is continued (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions that occurred in patients with LN receiving the recommended dose of voclosporin 
with a median treatment duration of 1 year in two placebo-controlled clinical studies are summarised 
in table 3. 
All adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very 
rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 3: Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Very common 
Common 
Infections and infestations 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection1 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Anaemia 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hypertension2 
Cough 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain3 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Influenza 
Herpes zoster 
Gastroenteritis 
Urinary tract infection 
Hyperkalaemia 
Decreased appetite 
Seizure 
Tremor 
Nausea 
Gingival hyperplasia4 
Dyspepsia  
Alopecia 
Hypertrichosis5 
Acute kidney disease6 
Acute kidney injury6 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Glomerular filtration rate 
decreased6,7 
Includes the following Preferred Terms (PTs): viral upper respiratory tract infection and upper respiratory 
tract infection bacterial 
Includes the following PTs: blood pressure increased, blood pressure diastolic increased, diastolic 
hypertension 
Includes the following PTs: abdominal pain upper, abdominal discomfort 
Includes the following PTs: gingivitis, gingival bleeding, gingival hypertrophy, gingival swelling 
Includes the following PTs: hypertrichosis, hirsutism 
Includes the PT renal impairment 
Includes the PT blood creatinine increased 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infections 
The overall incidence of infections was 62.2 % in the voclosporin group and 54.9 % in the placebo 
group. Infections occurring in at least 5 % of patients receiving voclosporin and at least 1 % more 
frequently than patients receiving placebo were urinary tract infection, viral upper respiratory tract 
infection, herpes zoster and gastroenteritis. Serious infections occurred in 10.1 % of voclosporin and 
10.2 % of placebo patients; the most common were pneumonia (voclosporin 4.1 %, placebo 3.8 %), 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gastroenteritis (voclosporin 1.5 %, placebo 0.4 %) and urinary tract infection (voclosporin 1.1 %, 
placebo 0.4 %). Serious opportunistic infections occurred in 1.1 % of voclosporin patients and 0.8 % 
of placebo patients. Fatal infections occurred in 0.7 % of patients receiving voclosporin and in 0.8 % 
of patients receiving placebo (see section 4.4). 
Renal toxicity 
Adverse reactions suggestive of renal toxicity which occurred at a frequency of ≥ 1 % higher in 
voclosporin compared to placebo were decreased eGFR (26.2 % vs. 9.4 %), renal impairment (5.6 % 
vs. 2.6 %), acute kidney injury (3.4 % vs. 0.8 %), and hyperkalaemia (1.9 % vs. 0.8 %). Serious 
adverse reactions were reported in 5.2 % of voclosporin patients and 3.4 % of placebo patients. 
The most common adverse reactions leading to dose modification (reduction in dose or temporary 
discontinuation) were decreased eGFR (voclosporin 23.6 %, placebo 6.8 %), renal impairment 
(voclosporin 3.0 %, placebo 0.8 %) and acute kidney injury (voclosporin 0.7 %, placebo 0). The most 
common adverse reactions leading to permanent medicinal product discontinuation were eGFR 
decreases (voclosporin 3.7 %, placebo 1.9 %) and renal impairment (voclosporin 1.9 %, placebo 1.5 
%). Following a decrease in eGFR, the median time to recovery was 49 days for patients on 
voclosporin with an eGFR decrease ≥ 20 %. Similarly for patients with an eGFR decrease of ≥ 30 %, 
the median time to recovery was 102 days on voclosporin. 
Hypertension 
Hypertension was reported in 19.1 % of voclosporin patients and 8.6 % of placebo patients. The 
incidence of hypertension was highest in the first 4 weeks of treatment with voclosporin and declined 
thereafter. Hypertension was severe in 1.1 % of voclosporin patients and 0.8 % of placebo patients. 
Serious hypertension occurred in 1.9 % of voclosporin patients and 0.4 % of placebo patients. 
Long term exposure (up to 36 months) 
The pattern of adverse reactions with continued treatment (from 12 to 36 months) was consistent with 
that seen in the first year of treatment; however, the incidences of the vast majority of events were 
lower in subsequent years. The overall incidence of infections was 49.1 % in the voclosporin group 
and 43.0% in the placebo group. Infections occurring in at least 5 % of patients receiving voclosporin 
and at least 1 % more frequently than patients receiving placebo were urinary tract infection, upper 
respiratory tract infection, viral upper respiratory tract infection and gastroenteritis. Serious infections 
occurred in 6.9 % of voclosporin and 8.0 % of placebo patients; the most common were corona virus 
infection (voclosporin 1.7 %, placebo 5.0 %) and pneumonia viral (voclosporin 1.7 %, placebo 0 %). 
Adverse reactions suggestive of renal toxicity which occurred at a higher frequency in voclosporin 
compared to placebo were decreased eGFR (10.3 % vs. 5.0 %) and renal impairment (3.4 % vs. 2.0 
%). Hypertension was reported in 8.6 % of voclosporin patients and 7.0 % of placebo patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Cases of accidental overdose have been reported with voclosporin; symptoms included tremor and 
tachycardia. In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, co-administration of ketoconazole and 
voclosporin resulted in an 18.6-fold increase in voclosporin exposure and increases in serum 
creatinine, decreases in serum magnesium and increases in blood pressure were observed. Symptoms 
of overdose with other calcineurin inhibitors (but not observed with voclosporin) include headache, 
nausea and vomiting, infections, urticaria, lethargy, changes in electrolyte levels and increases in 
blood urea nitrogen, and alanine aminotransferase. 
No specific antidote to voclosporin therapy is available. If overdose occurs, general supportive 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measures and symptomatic treatment should be conducted, including temporarily stopping treatment 
with voclosporin and assessing blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, eGFR and alanine 
aminotransferase levels. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, calcineurin inhibitors, ATC code: L04AD03 
Mechanism of action 
Voclosporin is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant that inhibits calcineurin in a dose-dependent 
manner up to a maximum dose of 1.0 mg/kg. Activation of lymphocytes involves an increase in 
intracellular calcium concentrations. Calcineurin is a calcium/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase 
whose activity is required for the induction of T-cell lymphokine production and proliferation. The 
immunosuppressant activity results in inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation, T-cell cytokine 
production, and expression of T-cell activation surface antigens. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
In a randomised, placebo- and active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg), single dose study with 
parallel study design, dose-dependent QT prolonging effect was detected with voclosporin in the dose 
range of 0.5 mg/kg to 4.5 mg/kg (up to 9-fold coverage of the therapeutic exposure). Dose-dependent 
QT prolongation effect was observed with a time to maximum QTc increase occurring at 4 hours to 6 
hours post-dose across different dose levels. The maximum mean placebo-adjusted changes of QTcF 
from baseline after voclosporin 0.5 mg/kg, 1.5 mg/kg, 3.0 mg/kg, and 4.5 mg/kg dose were 6.4 msec, 
17.5 msec, 25.7 msec, and 34.6 msec, respectively. 
In a separate, randomised, placebo-controlled, crossover study in 31 healthy subjects, an absence of 
large mean increases (i.e., > 20 msec) was observed following 7 days of treatment with voclosporin at 
0.3 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg twice daily (approximately 6-fold coverage of the therapeutic 
exposure). The mechanism for the QT prolonging effect as observed in the single-dose and multiple-
dose studies is unknown. 
Based on data in LN patients receiving voclosporin 23.7 mg or 39.5 mg twice daily, a regression 
analysis of placebo corrected QTcF change from baseline showed a minimal negative slope 
(−0.065344 msec/ng/mL), not statistically different from a slope of 0 (p = 0.1042). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The safety and efficacy of voclosporin were investigated in two placebo-controlled clinical trials 
(AURORA 1 and AURA-LV) in patients with LN of Class III or IV (alone or in combination with 
Class V) or pure Class V. All patients received background therapy of MMF (2 g/day) and 
corticosteroids (up to a total of 1 g of intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone over days 1 and 2 followed 
by a starting dose of oral corticosteroids of 25 mg/day (or 20 mg/day if body weight was < 45 kg), 
tapered down to 2.5 mg/day by week 16. 
Patients that completed the AURORA 1 study could continue in a 2-year continuation study 
(AURORA 2). 
Phase 3 AURORA 1 
The AURORA 1 study was a phase 3, prospective, randomised, double-blind, study comparing 23.7 
mg (corresponding to a 0.37 mg/kg dose) twice daily of voclosporin (n = 179) vs. placebo (n = 178) 
over a 52-week treatment period. The demographic characteristics of patients in the study were well 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
balanced across the two treatment arms. The mean age was 33 years (range 18 years to 72 years) and 
the majority of patients were female (87.7 %), of which 81.8 % were of childbearing potential. 
Most patients were White (36.1 %) or Asian (30.5 %), and approximately one third of the study 
population was Hispanic or Latino. The mean weight was 66.5 kg (range 36 kg to 142 kg). The 
median time since systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) diagnosis was 5.0 years and the median time 
since LN diagnosis was 2.0 years. 
Before entering the AURORA 1 study, most patients (98 %) had received treatment for LN in the past, 
with approximately 55 % of patients taking MMF at screening. The proportion of LN treatment naïve 
patients was very low (2 %).  
More patients in the voclosporin arm than the placebo arm achieved the primary endpoint of renal 
response (table 4).  
Table 4: AURORA 1 – Summary of key efficacy endpoints 
Renal response at week 52 
Renal response at week 24  
Partial renal response* at week 24  
Partial renal response* at week 52 
Voclosporin 
(n = 179) 
n (%) 
73 
(40.8) 
58 
(32.4) 
126 
(70.4) 
125 
(69.8) 
Placebo 
(n = 178) 
n (%) 
40 
(22.5) 
35 
(19.7) 
89 
(50.0) 
92 
(51.7) 
Odds ratio 
vs. placebo 
(95 % CI) 
2.65 
(1.64, 4.27) 
2.23 
(1.34, 3.72) 
2.43 
(1.56, 3.79) 
2.26 
(1.45, 3.51) 
p-value 
< 0.001 
= 0.002 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
* Partial renal response defined as a 50 % reduction in UPCR. 
Notes: CI = Confidence interval; UPCR = Urine protein to creatinine ratio 
The overall proportion of patients that achieved each of the components assessed for the primary 
endpoint at 52 weeks in the voclosporin vs placebo arm were:  
urine protein to creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≤ 0.5 mg/mg: 
- 
-  with normal, stable renal function (defined as eGFR ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 
or no confirmed decrease from baseline in eGFR of > 20 %): 
in the presence of sustained, low-dose steroids (not more than 10 mg for ≥ 
3 consecutive days or for ≥ 7 days in total during weeks 44 to 52): 
and received no rescue medication for LN: 
- 
- 
45.3 % vs 23.0 % 
82.1 % vs. 75.8 % 
87.2 % vs. 85.4 % 
91.1 % vs. 86.5 % 
More patients in the voclosporin arm than the placebo arm achieved UPCR ≤ 0.5 mg/mg (64.8 % vs. 
43.8 %) and the time to UPCR ≤ 0.5 mg/mg was significantly shorter for voclosporin treatment 
(median time: 169 days vs. 372 days for placebo treatment; hazard ratio (HR) 2.02; 95 % CI: 1.51, 
2.70; p < 0.001). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curve of time (days) to UPCR ≤ 0.5 mg/mg 
The time taken to reach a 50 % reduction in UPCR was significantly shorter for the voclosporin arm 
than the placebo arm (HR 2.05; 95 % CI: 1.62, 2.60; p < 0.001). Median time to 50 % reduction in 
UPCR was 29 days for voclosporin vs. 63 days for placebo (figure 2). 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curve of time (days) to 50 % reduction in UPCR from baseline 
Over 80 % of patients in the AURORA 1 study achieved a reduction in dose of oral corticosteroid to ≤ 
2.5 mg/day at week 24 and this dose was maintained by over 75 % of patients at week 52. 
Phase 3 AURORA 2 
The AURORA 2 study was a continuation study to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of 
voclosporin in patients that completed treatment in the AURORA 1 study. Patients stayed on the same 
treatment and dose of voclosporin (n = 116) or placebo (n = 100) as at the end of AURORA 1 and 
continued treatment for up to a further 2 years. Over 85 % of patients completed the study 
(voclosporin: 87.1 %, placebo 85.0 %); 79.3 % of voclosporin patients and 73 % of placebo patients 
were still on study treatment at the end of study. 
The proportion of patients in renal response at month 36 was 33 % (59/179) in the voclosporin group 
and 22 % (39/178) in the placebo group (ITT, AURORA 1) and 51 % (59/116) in the voclosporin 
group and 39 % (39/100) in the placebo group (ITT, AURORA 2). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Lupkynis in one or more subsets of the paediatric population, in LN (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following oral administration (voclosporin 23.7 mg twice daily) the median time to reach maximum 
whole blood concentrations (Cmax) is 1.5 hours (range: 0.75 hour to 2 hours). With a twice daily dosing 
regimen, voclosporin steady state is achieved after 6 days and voclosporin accumulates approximately 
2-fold relative to a single dose. At steady state, the whole blood mean Cmax and pre-dose trough values 
for voclosporin were 120 ng/mL (32 % CV) and 15.0 ng/mL (49 % CV), respectively. In vitro data 
investigating if voclosporin is a substrate of the efflux transporters P-gp or BCRP are inconclusive, but 
clinically relevant effects of P-gp/BCRP inhibitors are not expected. 
Co-administration of voclosporin with food decreased both the rate and extent of absorption. Cmax and 
AUC of voclosporin were reduced by 53 % and 25 % when given with high-fat food and by 29 % and 
15 % when given with low-fat food. These changes were not considered to be clinically relevant. 
Therefore, voclosporin can be taken with or without food. 
Distribution 
Voclosporin is 97 % bound to plasma proteins. Voclosporin partitions extensively into red blood cells 
and distribution between whole blood and plasma is concentration- and temperature-dependent. A 
population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients resulted in an apparent volume of distribution (Vss/F) 
of 2,154 L. 
Biotransformation 
Voclosporin is extensively metabolised, predominantly by CYP3A4 to form oxidative metabolites. 
Voclosporin is the major circulating component following a single dose of [14C]-voclosporin. One 
major metabolite was observed in human whole blood and represented 16.7 % of total exposure. The 
major metabolite is not expected to contribute to the pharmacological activity of voclosporin since it 
was reported as about 8-fold less potent in a lymphocyte proliferation assay and has lower exposure 
than voclosporin. 
Elimination 
The mean apparent clearance at steady state (CLss/F) after voclosporin 23.7 mg twice daily is 63.6 L/h 
(37.5 % CV). The mean terminal half-life (t½) at steady state is approximately 30 hours (range: 24.9 
hours to 36.5 hours). 
Following single oral administration of 70 mg [14C]-voclosporin, 94.8 % of the radioactivity was 
recovered by 168 hours post dose: 92.7 % was recovered in faeces (including 5 % as unchanged 
voclosporin), and 2.1 % was recovered in urine (including 0.25 % as unchanged voclosporin). 
Linearity/non-linearity 
In healthy volunteers, a non-linearity between dose and exposure was observed at the lower end of the 
dose range studied (0.25 mg/kg to 1.5 mg/kg twice daily), which had a relatively minor effect on the 
pharmacokinetics. The dose-proportionality factor was always less than 1.5. This non-linearity has not 
been detected over the dose range studied in LN patients. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Renal impairment 
In clinical studies, kidney function was monitored by eGFR and doses were adjusted based on a pre-
defined dose adjustment protocol. Enrolled LN patients had a baseline eGFR > 45 mL/min/1.73 m2. 
Dosing adjustments have to follow the recommendations outlined in table 1. 
A dedicated renal impairment study revealed that after single and multiple doses of voclosporin, Cmax 
and AUC were similar in volunteers with mild (creatinine clearance (CLCr) 60 mL/min to 89 mL/min 
as estimated by Cockcroft Gault) and moderate (CLCr 30 mL/min to 59 mL/min) renal impairment 
compared to volunteers with normal renal function (CLCr ≥ 90 mL/min). After a single dose of 
voclosporin in volunteers with severe renal impairment (CLCr < 30 mL/min), Cmax and AUC increased 
1.5-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively. The effect of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) with or without 
haemodialysis on the pharmacokinetics of voclosporin is unknown (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
A dedicated hepatic impairment study compared systemic exposure of voclosporin in patients with 
mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A and B, respectively) vs. healthy controls with 
normal hepatic function. In patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, voclosporin Cmax and 
AUC0-48 increased by 1.5-fold and approximately 2-fold, respectively (see section 4.2). Voclosporin 
has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) and its use in these 
patients is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
Age, sex, race and body weight 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis assessing the effects of age, sex, race and body weight did not 
suggest any clinically significant impact of these covariates on voclosporin exposures. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Adverse reactions not observed in clinical studies, but seen in animals at exposure levels similar to 
clinical exposure levels and with possible relevance to clinical use were as follows: 
Repeated-dose animal studies have shown neuro-histological findings of gliosis and perivascular 
infiltrates in the brain and spinal cord in rats, but not in dogs or monkeys. These findings were not 
observed at doses approximately 0.3-times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 23.7 
mg voclosporin twice a day on medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis.   
In a 39-week oral toxicology study with cynomolgus monkeys, malignant lymphomas occurred at a 
dose of 150 mg/kg/day (approximately 4-times and 7-times above the MRHD based on medicinal 
product exposure (AUC), for male and female animals, respectively). At this dose, monkeys 
experienced high levels of immunosuppression as indicated by maximum calcineurin inhibition levels 
(Emax) of greater than 80 %. The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for this finding was 75 
mg/kg/day (approximately 4-times the MRHD, on medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis, for male 
and female animals). 
No mutagenic or genotoxic effects of voclosporin were observed in conventional genotoxicity studies. 
In a 2-year mouse carcinogenicity study with oral voclosporin, an increased incidence of malignant 
lymphoma was observed at the highest dose tested (30 mg/kg/day; approximately 7.5-times the 
MRHD on a medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis). This result is considered secondary to 
voclosporin-related immune suppression. The NOAEL was 10 mg/kg/day (approximately 1-times the 
MRHD on medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis). 
In a rat fertility study with a 50:50 mixture of voclosporin and its cis-isomer, decreases in male 
reproductive organ weights, including the cauda epididymis, epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate, 
and testes were noted at a dose of 25 mg/kg/day. The NOAEL for these findings was 10 mg/kg/day 
(approximately 5-times the MRHD on medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis). Mating and fertility 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
parameters, sperm motility, count and density, number of estrous stages per 14 days, and caesarean 
sectioning parameters were not affected. Decreases in prostate and testes weights were also observed 
in the 13-week and 26-week repeat-dose toxicity studies with oral 50:50 mixture of voclosporin and its 
cis-isomer at doses of 25 mg/kg/day and 10 mg/kg/day, or 18-times and 7-times the MRHD, on 
medicinal product exposure (AUC) basis. The NOAEL for these effects in the 26-week repeat-dose 
study was 2.5 mg/kg/day (approximately 1-times the MRHD on medicinal product exposure (AUC) 
basis). 
Embryo-foetal development studies were conducted with the 50:50 mixture of voclosporin and its cis-
isomer in both rats and rabbits and with voclosporin in rabbits. Embryo-foetal toxicity was only 
observed at doses that were associated with maternal toxicity (at doses approximately 15-times and 1-
times the MRHD, based upon medicinal product exposure (AUC), for rats and rabbits, respectively). 
The maternal effects included changes in body weight and/or swollen mammary glands while the 
foetal effects consisted of a slight reduction in body weight and related skeletal developmental 
variations. No malformative effects were noted in the studies. The NOAELs were 10 mg/kg/day in rats 
and 1 mg/kg/day in rabbits (approximately 7-times and 0.01-times the MRHD, based on medicinal 
product exposure (AUC), for rats and rabbits, respectively). 
In a pre- and post-natal developmental study in rats, maternal toxicity at a dose of 25 mg/kg/day 50:50 
mixture of voclosporin and its cis-isomer (approximately 17 times the MRHD on medicinal product 
exposure (AUC) basis) delayed parturition (dystocia) that resulted in reductions in the mean number of 
total pups delivered and surviving pups per litter. This dose was associated with maternal toxicity 
based on decreased body weight gain. No adverse effects on dams or their pups were observed at 
doses approximately 3-times the MRHD and lower (based on medicinal product exposure (AUC) with 
a maternal oral NOAEL dose of 10 mg/kg/day). There were no effects on behavioural and physical 
development, or the reproductive performance of male or female pups. The no effect dose for delivery 
and pup survival was 10 mg/kg/day. 
Medicinal product-derived radioactivity was rapidly distributed to milk following the oral 
administration of [14C]-voclosporin to lactating rats. When a medicinal product is present in animal 
milk, it is likely that it will also be present in human milk. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Ethanol 
Vitamin E (E307) polyethylene glycol succinate (tocofersolan) 
Polysorbate 40 
Medium-chain triglycerides 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Sorbitol 
Glycerin 
Purified water 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide, red (E172) 
Iron oxide, yellow (E172) 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Processing aids 
Soya lecithin 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original blister in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Soft capsules are available in cold-formed aluminium blisters, laminated backing and lidding materials 
that are thermo-sealed together. Each blister contains 18 soft capsules. One carton contains 180 or 576 
soft capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1678/001 (180 soft capsules) 
EU/1/22/1678/002 (576 soft capsules) 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 15 September 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block-7, City North Business Campus, Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60, 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lupkynis 7.9 mg soft capsules 
voclosporin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each soft capsule contains 7.9 mg of voclosporin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains alcohol (ethanol), sorbitol and may contain trace amounts of soya lecithin. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Soft capsule 
180 soft capsules 
576 soft capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Swallow soft capsules whole. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original blister in order to protect from moisture. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1678/001 (180 soft capsules) 
EU/1/22/1678/002 (576 soft capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
lupkynis 7.9 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lupkynis 7.9 mg capsule 
voclosporin 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lupkynis 7.9 mg soft capsules 
voclosporin 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Lupkynis is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Lupkynis 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Lupkynis 
Possible side effects 
How to store Lupkynis 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lupkynis is and what it is used for 
Lupkynis contains the active substance voclosporin. It is used for the treatment of adults from 18 years 
of age with lupus nephritis (inflammation of the kidney caused by lupus). 
The active ingredient in Lupkynis is one of a group of medicines known as calcineurin inhibitors that 
can be used to control your body’s immune response (immunosuppressants). In lupus, the immune 
system (the body’s natural defences) mistakenly attacks parts of your own body, including the kidneys 
(lupus nephritis). By reducing the response of the immune system, the medicine reduces inflammation 
of your kidneys and lessens symptoms such as swelling of the legs, ankles or feet, high blood pressure, 
tiredness, as well as improving your kidney function. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Lupkynis 
Do not take Lupkynis 
- 
- 
If you are allergic to voclosporin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you are taking other medicines such as ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s 
syndrome when the body produces an excess of cortisol), itraconazole or clarithromycin (used 
to treat certain fungal and bacterial infections). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Lupkynis if any of the following applies to you: 
- 
if your kidney disease gets worse, your dose of this medicine may need to be changed. Your 
doctor will regularly check how well your kidneys are working. 
if you have risk factors for pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) – a rare disorder in which the bone 
marrow does not make enough red blood cells. Such risk factors are a former infection with 
parvovirus B19 or other treatments in the past that may cause PRCA. 
- 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you suffer from or develop high blood pressure. Your doctor will check your blood pressure 
every two weeks for the first month and then regularly. He/she may give you a medicine to 
lower your blood pressure or tell you to stop taking this medicine. 
This medicine can increase the risk of conditions of the nervous system, such as headache, 
shaking, changes in vision, seizures, confusion or weakness in one or more limbs. If you 
experience any of these new symptoms or worsening of existing symptoms, your doctor may 
consider stopping or lowering the dose of this medicine (see section 4). 
if you are planning to have a vaccination or have had a vaccination within the last 30 days. This 
medicine may affect the response to vaccination, and vaccination during treatment with this 
medicine may be less effective. 
if you have previously experienced sudden life-threatening allergic reactions (anaphylactic 
reactions) to soya or peanut, do not take this medicine. 
This medicine can increase the potassium levels in your blood, which may be serious and require 
treatment. Your doctor will check your potassium levels periodically during treatment. 
This medicine has not been studied in patients with severe liver problems and is therefore not 
recommended in these patients. 
This medicine may influence the electrical activity of your heart (QT prolongation). This can result in 
serious heart rhythm disorder. Early symptoms are dizziness and fainting.  
Sunlight and UV light 
This medicine can increase the risk of developing certain types of cancer, particularly of the skin. You 
should avoid or limit your exposure to sunlight and UV light by wearing appropriate protective 
clothing and frequently applying sunscreen with a high protection factor. 
Infections 
This medicine can increase your risk of developing infections, some of which may be serious or even 
fatal. Contact your doctor if you have any signs of infection, such as fever, chills or sore throat. Your 
doctor will decide whether you need to stop taking this medicine (see section 4). 
Children and adolescents 
Do not take this medicine if you are under the age of 18 years because it has not been studied in this 
age group. 
Elderly 
This medicine is not recommended if you are over the age of 75 years because it has not been studied 
in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lupkynis 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken or are planning to take any 
other medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
Medicines used to treat fungal infection such as itraconazole and fluconazole. 
Medicines used to treat Cushing’s syndrome (when the body produces an excess of cortisol), 
such as ketoconazole tablets. 
Medicines used to treat high blood pressure or heart problems such as digoxin, diltiazem and 
verapamil. 
Medicines to prevent the formation of blood clots such as dabigatran etexilate. 
Medicines used to treat epilepsy such as carbamazepine and phenobarbital. 
Herbal preparations containing St. John’s Wort, used to treat mild depression. 
Medicines for the relief of symptoms associated with seasonal allergic rhinitis such as 
fexofenadine. 
Antibiotic medicines used to treat bacterial infections such as rifampicin, clarithromycin and 
erythromycin. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
Medicines that lower cholesterol such as simvastatin, atorvastatin, rosuvastatin and pravastatin. 
Medicines used to treat HIV infections, such as the antiretroviral efavirenz. 
Lupkynis with food and drink 
This medicine can be taken with or without food. Avoid eating grapefruit and drinking grapefruit juice 
during treatment with this medicine, since these can affect how the medicine works. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
This medicine is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not 
using contraception. 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. It is not known if the medicine can pass into breast milk and 
affect your baby. Your doctor will discuss with you whether to stop treatment with this medicine while 
you are breast-feeding, or to stop breast-feeding. 
There are no data on the effect of this medicine on human fertility. 
Driving and using machines 
Lupkynis is not expected to have any effect on your ability to drive and use machines. 
Lupkynis contains alcohol 
This medicine contains 21.6 mg of alcohol (ethanol) in each capsule. Therefore, a dose of 3 capsules 
of Lupkynis contains 64.8 mg ethanol, which is equivalent to less than 2 mL beer or 1 mL wine. This 
small amount of alcohol in this medicine will not have any noticeable effects. 
Lupkynis contains sorbitol 
This medicine contains 28.7 mg of sorbitol in each capsule. 
Lupkynis may contain soya lecithin  
This medicine may contain trace amounts of soya lecithin. If you experience anaphylactic reactions to 
soya or peanut, you must not use this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Lupkynis 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose of Lupkynis is three capsules twice daily, taken by mouth. 
The capsules must be swallowed whole and can be taken with or without food. 
Take the daily doses at around the same time each day, at least 8 hours apart and ideally as close to 12 
hours apart as possible (for example, at 8:00 am in the morning and 8:00 pm in the evening). 
This medicine should be used in combination with another immunosuppressant medicine, 
mycophenolate mofetil. 
If you take more Lupkynis than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many capsules, contact your doctor or nearest hospital emergency 
department immediately. Symptoms of overdose may include a fast heartbeat and tremors 
(uncontrolled shaking or trembling in one or more parts of the body). 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Lupkynis 
If a dose is missed, take it as soon as possible and within 4 hours of missing the dose. If more than 4 
hours have passed since the time you normally take the medicine, just skip that dose and take the next 
regular dose at the usual time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Lupkynis 
Do not stop your treatment unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. The 
following side effects may happen with this medicine: 
Serious side effects 
If any of these occur, seek immediate medical advice as your doctor may advise you to stop taking this 
medicine or reduce the dose. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Symptoms of infection (such as fever, body aches, feeling tired, coughing or sneezing, nausea, 
vomiting or diarrhoea) 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Newly developing symptoms of nerve or brain problems, such as seizures 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
Upper chest infection 
Reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
(anaemia) 
Headache 
Increased blood pressure 
Cough 
Diarrhoea 
Pain in the abdomen (belly) 
Changes in your kidney function which could reduce the amount of urine you produce and may 
cause new or worsening swelling in your legs or feet 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Infections, that can either be bacterial such as urinary tract infections or viral such as shingles 
Inflammation of the stomach and intestines 
Flu 
Increased levels of potassium seen in blood test 
Decreased appetite 
Tremors 
Feeling sick 
Abnormal swelling, bleeding and/or inflammation of the gums 
Indigestion 
Hair loss 
Excessive and/or abnormal hair growth on any part of the body 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lupkynis 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original blister in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lupkynis contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is voclosporin. Each soft capsule of Lupkynis contains 7.9 mg of 
voclosporin. 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule content: ethanol, vitamin E (E307) polyethylene glycol succinate (tocofersolan), 
polysorbate 40 and medium-chain triglycerides 
Capsule shell: gelatin, sorbitol, glycerin, purified water, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide red 
(E172), iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Processing aid: soya lecithin 
What Lupkynis looks like and contents of the pack 
Lupkynis 7.9 mg pink/orange, soft capsules measuring approximately 13 mm × 6 mm packed in 
blisters. Each blister contains 18 soft capsules. One carton contains 180 or 576 soft capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block-7, City North Business Campus, Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60, 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tél/Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Lietuva 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
България 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Teл: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tél/Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Česká republika 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Magyarország 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Deutschland 
Otsuka Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 69 1700 860 
Malta 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Nederland 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Eesti 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Norge 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Ελλάδα 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Thλ: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Österreich 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
España 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical S.A 
Tel: +34 (0) 93 208 1020 
Polska 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
France 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0) 1 47 08 00 00 
Portugal 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Hrvatska 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
România 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Ireland 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Slovenija 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Ísland 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Sími: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Italia 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 (0) 2 0063 2710 
Slovenská republika 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Suomi/Finland 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Puh/Tel: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Κύπρος 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Thλ: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Sverige 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tel: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Latvija 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
