Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Lusutrombopag 
Shionogi (lusutrombopag) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lusutrombopag Shionogi. The RMP 
details important risks of Lusutrombopag Shionogi, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about Lusutrombopag Shionogi's risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
Lusutrombopag Shionogi's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Lusutrombopag Shionogi 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Lusutrombopag Shionogi should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi’s RMP. 
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Platelets are needed to help you stop bleeding. Lusutrombopag Shionogi is authorised to treat 
thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) in patients with chronic liver disease before undergoing
invasive procedures (surgery) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains lusutrombopag as the
active substance and it is given by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of Lusutrombopag Shionogi’s benefits can be found in 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lusutrombopag-shionogi
II.  Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Lusutrombopag Shionogi, together with measures to minimise such risks and
the proposed studies for learning more about Lusutrombopag Shionogi's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and
regularly analysed, including PSUR so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Lusutrombopag Shionogi is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Lusutrombopag Shionogi are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Lusutrombopag Shionogi. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications  
Important Potential Risks 
None 
Missing Information 
Use in Pregnant or lactating women;  
Use in patients with Child-Pugh class C liver disease 
Use in patients with a history of splenectomy 
Use in patients concomitantly receiving interferon 
preparations 
Repeated use for invasive procedures 
Safety in patients requiring highly invasive procedures 
Off label use in long term treatment 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Thrombotic/Thromboembolic Complications 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to 
the Medicine 
Eltrombopag publically available data including the 
ELEVATE study (Afdhal et al, 2012). 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
The risk for thrombosis/thromboembolism may 
increase in the following patient groups: 
• 
Patients with current thrombosis or 
thromboembolism 
• 
• 
• 
Patients with a history of thrombosis and 
thromboembolism 
Patients  already in a prothrombotic state 
Patients with absence of hepatopetal blood 
flow in the main trunk of the portal vein. 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 and 4.8 
PL Section 2 and 4 
Missing Information: Use in Pregnant or lactating  Women 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Missing Information: Use in Patients with Child-Pugh Class C Liver Disease 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 
PL Section 2 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi Child Pugh Class C PASS 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview 
 
 
 
 
of the post-authorisation development plan. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients with History of Splenectomy 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
PL Section 2 
Missing Information: Use in Patients concomitantly receiving interferon 
preparations 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4  
PL Section 2 
Missing Information: Repeated Use for invasive procedures 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 5.1 
Missing Information: Safety in patients requiring Highly invasive procedures 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4  
Missing Information: Off label use in long-term treatment 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
PL Section 2 
II.C 
Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
Not Applicable 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi Child-Pugh Class C PASS  
Purpose of the study: 
Limited numbers of patients with Child-Pugh class C liver disease were studied during the 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi clinical trials. As these patients have complex coagulation profiles, the 
safety of Lusutrombopag Shionogi in such patients will be assessed in this study. 
The key study questions are 
1.  The extent to which platelets are raised in patients with Child Pugh Class C liver disease 
following the use of Lusutrombopag Shionogi or platelets  
2.  Whether the use of Lusutrombopag Shionogi or platelets in these patients is associated with 
elevations in liver enzymes 
3.  The temporal course of such elevations if they occur. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
