ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lutathera 370 MBq/mL solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One mL of solution contains 370 MBq of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide at the date and time of 
calibration. 
The total amount of radioactivity per single-dose vial is 7 400 MBq at the date and time of infusion. 
Given the fixed volumetric activity of 370 MBq/mL at the date and time of calibration, the volume of 
the solution in the vial ranges between 20.5 and 25.0 mL in order to provide the required amount of 
radioactivity at the date and time of infusion. 
Physical characteristics 
Lutetium-177 has a half-life of 6.647 days. Lutetium-177 decays by β- emission to stable hafnium-177 
with the most abundant β- (79.3%) having a maximum energy of 0.498 MeV. The average beta energy 
is approximately 0.13 MeV. Low gamma energy is also emitted, for instance at 113 keV (6.2%) and 
208 keV (11%). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of solution contains up to 0.14 mmol (3.2 mg) of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for infusion. 
Clear, colourless to slightly yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Lutathera is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, progressive, well-differentiated 
(G1 and G2), somatostatin receptor-positive gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours 
(GEP-NETs) in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Important safety instructions 
Lutathera should be administered only by persons authorised to handle radiopharmaceuticals in 
designated clinical settings (see section 6.6) and after evaluation of the patient by a qualified 
physician. 
Patient identification 
Before starting treatment with Lutathera, somatostatin receptor imaging (scintigraphy or positron 
emission tomography [PET]) must confirm the overexpression of these receptors in the tumour tissue 
with the tumour uptake at least as high as normal liver uptake. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Adults 
The recommended treatment regimen of Lutathera in adults consists of 4 infusions of 7 400 MBq 
each. The recommended interval between each administration is 8 weeks (±1 week). 
Information on dose modifications to manage severe or intolerable adverse drug reactions is given in 
the respective section below. 
Amino acid solution 
For renal protection purposes, an amino acid solution containing L-lysine and L-arginine must be 
administered intravenously over 4 hours (see composition in Tables 1 and 2). The infusion of the 
amino acid solution should start 30 minutes prior to start of Lutathera infusion. Infusion of the amino 
acid solution and Lutathera through a separate venous access in each of the patient’s arms is the 
preferred method. However, if two intravenous lines are not possible due to poor venous access or 
institutional/clinical preference, the amino acid solution and Lutathera may be infused through the 
same line via a three-way valve, taking into consideration flow rate and maintenance of venous access. 
The dose of the amino acid solution should not be decreased even if a reduced dose of Lutathera is 
administered. 
An amino acid solution containing just L-lysine and L-arginine in the amounts specified in Table 1 is 
considered the medicinal product of choice, due to the lower total volume to be infused and lower 
osmolality. 
The amino acid solution can be prepared as a compounded product, in compliance with the hospital’s 
good preparation practices for sterile medicinal products and according to the composition specified in 
Table 1. 
Table 1 
Composition of the compounded amino acid solution 
Compound 
L-lysine HCl 
L-arginine HCl 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, or 
water for injections 
*equivalent to 20.0 g L-lysine 
**equivalent to 20.7 g L-arginine 
Amount 
25 g* 
25 g** 
1 L 
Alternatively, commercially available amino acid solutions can be used if compliant with the 
specification described in Table 2. 
Table 2 
Specification of commercially available amino acid solutions 
Characteristic 
Specification 
L-lysine HCl 
L-arginine HCl 
Volume 
Osmolality 
*equivalent to 14.4-20 g L-lysine 
**equivalent to 14.9-20.7 g L-arginine 
Between 18 and 25 g* 
Between 18 and 25 g** 
1 to 2 L 
<1 200 mOsmol/kg 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment monitoring 
Before each administration and during the treatment with Lutathera, laboratory tests are required to 
assess the patient’s condition and adapt the therapeutic protocol as necessary (dose, infusion interval, 
number of infusions) (see Table 3). 
The minimum laboratory tests needed before each infusion are: 
• 
• 
• 
Haematology (haemoglobin [Hb], white blood cell count with differential counts, platelet count) 
Kidney function (serum creatinine and creatinine clearance by Cockcroft-Gault formula) 
Liver function (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], serum 
albumin, international normalised ratio (INR) and bilirubin) 
These laboratory tests should be performed at least once in the 2 to 4 weeks prior to administration, 
and shortly before administration. It is also recommended to perform these tests every 4 weeks for at 
least 3 months after the last infusion of Lutathera and every 6 months thereafter, in order to be able to 
detect possible delayed adverse reactions (see section 4.8). Dosing may need to be modified based on 
the test results (see Table 3). 
Dose modification 
Management of severe or intolerable adverse drug reactions may require temporary dose interruption 
(extension of the dosing interval from 8 weeks up to 16 weeks), dose reduction, or permanent 
discontinuation of treatment with Lutathera (see Table 3 and Figure 1). 
Table 3 
Recommended dose modifications of Lutathera for adverse drug reactions 
Adverse drug 
reaction 
Severity of adverse drug 
reaction 
Dose modification 
First occurrence of: 
Grade 2 (platelets <75-50 x 
109/L) 
Thrombocytopenia 
Grade 3 (platelets <50-25 x 
109/L) 
Grade 4 (platelets <25 x 109/L) 
Recurrent Grade 2, 3 or 4 
First occurrence of anaemia: 
Grade 3 (Hb <8.0 g/dL); 
transfusion indicated 
Grade 4 (life-threatening 
consequences) 
First occurrence of neutropenia: 
Grade 3 (absolute neutrophil 
count [ANC] <1.0-0.5 x 109/L) 
Grade 4 (ANC <0.5 x 109/L) 
Anaemia and 
neutropenia 
Withhold dose until complete or partial 
resolution (Grade 0 to 1). 
Resume Lutathera at 3 700 MBq (100 mCi) in 
patients with complete or partial resolution. If 
reduced dose does not result in Grade 2, 3 or 
4 thrombocytopenia, administer Lutathera at 
7 400 MBq (200 mCi) as next dose. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera for 
Grade 2 or higher thrombocytopenia requiring 
a dosing interval beyond 16 weeks. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera. 
Withhold dose until complete or partial 
resolution (Grade 0, 1, or 2). 
Resume Lutathera at 3 700 MBq (100 mCi) in 
patients with complete or partial resolution. If 
reduced dose does not result in Grade 3 or 4 
anaemia or neutropenia, administer Lutathera 
at 7 400 MBq (200 mCi) as next dose. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera for 
Grade 3 or higher anaemia or neutropenia 
requiring a dosing interval beyond 16 weeks. 
Recurrent Grade 3 or 4 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First occurrence of: 
•  Creatinine clearance less than 
40 mL/min; calculated using 
Cockcroft-Gault formula with 
actual body weight, or 
Renal toxicity 
•  40% increase from baseline 
serum creatinine, or 
•  40% decrease from baseline 
creatinine clearance; calculated 
using Cockcroft-Gault formula 
with actual body weight. 
Recurrent renal toxicity 
First occurrence of: 
•  Bilirubinaemia greater than 
3 times the upper limit of normal 
(Grade 3 or 4), or 
•  Albuminaemia less than 
30 g/L with INR >1.5 
Recurrent hepatotoxicity 
Hepatotoxicity 
Any other CTCAE* 
Grade 3 or Grade 4 
adverse drug reaction1 
First occurrence of Grade 3 or 4 
Recurrent Grade 3 or 4 
Withhold dose until resolution or return to 
baseline. 
Resume Lutathera at 3 700 MBq (100 mCi) in 
patients with resolution or return to baseline. 
If reduced dose does not result in renal 
toxicity, administer Lutathera at 7 400 MBq 
(200 mCi) as next dose. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera for renal 
toxicity requiring a dosing interval beyond 
16 weeks. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera. 
Withhold dose until resolution or return to 
baseline. 
Resume Lutathera at 3 700 MBq (100 mCi) in 
patients with resolution or return to baseline. 
If reduced Lutathera dose does not result in 
hepatotoxicity, administer Lutathera at 
7 400 MBq (200 mCi) as next dose. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera for 
hepatotoxicity requiring a dosing interval 
beyond 16 weeks. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera. 
Withhold dose until complete or partial 
resolution (Grade 0 to 2). 
Resume Lutathera at 3 700 MBq (100 mCi) in 
patients with complete or partial resolution. If 
reduced dose does not result in Grade 3 or 4 
toxicity, administer Lutathera at 7 400 MBq 
(200 mCi) as next dose. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera for 
Grade 3 or higher adverse drug reaction 
requiring a dosing interval beyond 16 weeks. 
Permanently discontinue Lutathera. 
1No dose modification required for haematological toxicities Grade 3 or Grade 4 solely due to 
lymphopenia. 
* CTCAE: Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, National Cancer Institute 
Figure 1  Overview of instructions for dose modifications 
DMT: Dose-modifying toxicity 
Other reasons to consider temporary dose interruption of Lutathera include occurrence of an 
intercurrent disease (e.g. urinary tract infection) which the physician considers could increase the risks 
associated with Lutathera administration and which should be resolved or stabilised for treatment to 
resume, or major surgery, in the event of which treatment should be withheld for 12 weeks after the 
date of surgery. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in patients aged 65 years or above as clinical experience has not 
identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. However, since increased 
risk of presenting with haematotoxicity has been described in elderly patients (≥70 years old), close 
follow-up allowing for prompt dose adaptation (DMT) in this population is advisable. 
Renal impairment 
Careful consideration of the activity to be administered to patients with renal impairment is required 
since an increased radiation exposure is possible in these patients. The pharmacokinetic profile and 
safety of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide in patients with baseline severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance <30 mL/min by Cockcroft-Gault formula) or end-stage renal disease have not been studied. 
Treatment with Lutathera in patients with kidney failure with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). Treatment with Lutathera in patients with baseline creatinine 
clearance <40 mL/min (using Cockcroft-Gault formula) is not recommended. No dose adjustment is 
recommended for renally impaired patients with baseline creatinine clearance ≥40 mL/min. However, 
as this medicinal product is known to be substantially excreted by the kidneys, renal function should 
be more frequently monitored during treatment as these patients may be at greater risk of toxicity. 
For additional details about the treatment of patients with renal toxicity, see Table 3 in section 4.2 and 
section 4.4. 
Hepatic impairment 
Careful consideration of the activity to be administered to patients with hepatic impairment is required 
since an increased radiation exposure is possible in these patients. The pharmacokinetic profile and 
safety of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide in patients with baseline severe hepatic impairment (total 
bilirubin >3 times upper limit of normal, regardless of AST level) have not been studied. Patients with 
baseline hepatic impairment with either total bilirubin >3 times the upper limit of normal or 
albuminaemia <30 g/L and INR >1.5 should only be treated with Lutathera after careful benefit-risk 
assessment. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with baseline mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
For additional details about the treatment of patients with hepatotoxicity, see Table 3 in section 4.2 
and section 4.4. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Lutathera in the paediatric population in the indication of treatment of 
GEP-NETs (excluding neuroblastoma, neuroganglioblastoma and phaeochromocytoma). 
Method of administration 
Lutathera is for intravenous use. It is a ready-to-use radiopharmaceutical medicinal product for single 
use only. 
Administration instructions 
The gravity method, the peristaltic pump method or the syringe pump method may be used for 
administration of the recommended dose. Treating healthcare professionals may use other methods 
deemed appropriate and safe, particularly when dose reduction is required. 
When using the gravity method or the peristaltic pump method, Lutathera should be infused directly 
from its original container. The peristaltic pump method or the syringe pump method should be used 
when administering a reduced dose of Lutathera following dose modification for an adverse reaction 
(see Table 3 in section 4.2). Using the gravity method to administer a reduced dose of Lutathera may 
result in the delivery of the incorrect volume of Lutathera if the dose is not adjusted prior to 
administration. Radiation safety precautions must be considered regardless of the administration 
method used (see section 6.6). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarises the whole administration procedure for Lutathera: 
Table 4 
Procedure for administration of antiemetic, amino acid solution and Lutathera 
Administered agents 
Antiemetic 
Start time 
(min) 
Infusion rate 
(mL/h) 
At least 
30 minutes prior 
to amino acid 
solution 
As per prescribing 
information 
Duration 
As per 
prescribing 
information 
Amino acid solution, either 
extemporaneously compounded 
(1 L) or commercial (1 to 2 L) 
Lutathera with sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for 
injection 
0 
30 
250–500 depending on 
volume 
4 hours 
Up to 400 
30 ± 10 minutes 
For instructions on the method of preparation and intravenous methods of administration, see 
section 12. 
For recommendations in case of extravasation, see section 4.4. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Established or suspected pregnancy or when pregnancy has not been excluded (see section 4.6). 
Kidney failure with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Individual benefit-risk justification 
For each patient, the radiation exposure must be justifiable by the likely benefit. The activity 
administered should in every case be as low as reasonably achievable to obtain the required 
therapeutic effect. 
Given the mechanism of action and the tolerance profile of Lutathera, it is not recommended to start 
treatment with Lutathera in patients with somatostatin receptor-negative or mixed visceral lesions 
according to somatostatin receptor imaging. 
Myelosuppression 
Because of the potential for undesirable haematological effects, blood counts must be monitored at 
baseline and prior to each dose of Lutathera during treatment and until resolution of any eventual 
toxicity (see section 4.2). Patients with impaired bone marrow function and patients who have 
received prior chemotherapy or external beam radiotherapy (involving more than 25% of the bone 
marrow) may be at higher risk of haematological toxicity during Lutathera treatment. Treatment of 
patients with severely impaired haematological function at baseline and during treatment (e.g. Hb 
<4.9 mmol/L or 8 g/dL, platelets <75 x 109/L, or leukocytes <2 x 109/L) is not recommended unless 
solely due to lymphopenia. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute leukaemia 
Late-onset myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute leukaemia (AL) have been observed after 
treatment with Lutathera (see section 4.8), occurring approximately 29 months (9–45) for MDS and 
55 months (32-125) for AL after the first Lutathera infusion. The aetiology of these therapy-related 
secondary myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) is unclear. Factors such as age >70 years, impaired renal 
function, baseline cytopenias, prior number of therapies, prior exposure to chemotherapeutic agents 
(specifically alkylating agents), and prior radiotherapy are suggested as potential risks and/or 
predictive factors for MDS/AL. 
Renal toxicity 
Because lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide is almost exclusively eliminated through the renal system, it is 
mandatory to concomitantly administer an amino acid solution containing the amino acids L-lysine 
and L-arginine. The amino acid solution will help to decrease reabsorption of lutetium (177Lu) 
oxodotreotide through the proximal tubules, resulting in a significant reduction in the kidney absorbed 
dose (see section 4.2). When the recommended concomitant amino acid solution infusion is delivered 
over a 4-hour time span, a mean reduction in kidney radiation exposure of about 47% has been 
reported. 
Patients should be encouraged to remain hydrated and to urinate frequently before, on the day of and 
the day after administration of Lutathera (e.g. 1 glass of water every hour). 
Renal function as determined by serum creatinine and calculated creatinine clearance using 
Cockcroft-Gault formula must be assessed at baseline, during and for at least the first year after 
treatment (see section 4.2). 
Patients with renal impairment at baseline or with renal or urinary tract abnormalities, may be at 
increased risk of toxicity due to increased radiation exposure (see section 4.2). 
For patients with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min, an increased risk for transient hyperkalaemia due 
to the amino acid solution should also be taken into consideration (see Warning and precaution 
regarding the co-administered renal protective amino acid solution). 
Hepatotoxicity 
Since many patients referred for Lutathera therapy have hepatic metastasis, it may be common to 
observe patients with altered baseline liver function. Patients with hepatic metastasis or pre-existing 
advanced hepatic impairment may be at increased risk of hepatotoxicity due to radiation exposure. 
Therefore, it is recommended to monitor ALT, AST, bilirubin, serum albumin and INR during 
treatment (see section 4.2). 
Hypersensitivity 
Cases of hypersensitivity reactions (including isolated angioedema events) have been reported in the 
post-marketing setting in patients treated with Lutathera (see section 4.8). In the event of serious 
hypersensitivity reactions, the ongoing Lutathera infusion should be discontinued immediately. 
Appropriate medicinal products and equipment to manage such reactions should be available for 
immediate use. 
Nausea and vomiting 
To prevent treatment-related nausea and vomiting, an intravenous bolus of an antiemetic medicinal 
product should be injected at least 30 minutes prior to the start of amino acid solution infusion to reach 
the full antiemetic efficacy (see section 4.2). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant use of somatostatin analogues 
Somatostatin and its analogues competitively bind to somatostatin receptors and may interfere with the 
efficacy of Lutathera (see section 4.5). 
Neuroendocrine hormonal crises 
Crises due to excessive release of hormones or bioactive substances may occur following treatment 
with Lutathera, therefore observation of patients by overnight hospitalisation should be considered in 
some cases (e.g. patients with poor pharmacological control of symptoms). In case of hormonal crises, 
recommended treatments are: intravenous high-dose somatostatin analogues, intravenous fluids, 
corticosteroids, and correction of electrolyte disturbances in patients with diarrhoea and/or vomiting. 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Tumour lysis syndrome has been reported following therapy with medicinal products containing 
lutetium-177. Patients with a history of renal insufficiency and high tumour burden may be at greater 
risk and should be treated with increased caution. Renal function and electrolyte balance should be 
assessed at baseline and during treatment. 
Radioprotection rules 
Patients under treatment with Lutathera should be kept away from others during administration and 
until the radiation emission limits stipulated by the applicable laws are reached, usually within the 
4-5 hours following medicinal product administration. The healthcare professional should determine 
when the patient can leave the controlled area of the hospital, i.e. when the radiation exposure to third 
parties does not exceed regulatory thresholds. 
Patients should be encouraged to remain hydrated and to urinate frequently before, on the day of and 
the day after administration of Lutathera (e.g. 1 glass of water every hour) to facilitate elimination. 
They should also be encouraged to defecate every day and to use a laxative if needed. Urine and faeces 
should be disposed of according to the national regulations. 
Provided the patient’s skin is not contaminated, such as from the leakage of the infusion system or 
because of urinary incontinence, radioactivity contamination is not expected on the skin and in the 
vomited mass. However, it is recommended that when conducting standard care or examinations with 
medical devices or other instruments which come into contact with the skin (e.g. electrocardiogram 
[ECG]), basic protection measures should be observed such as wearing gloves, installing the 
material/electrode before the start of radiopharmaceutical infusion, changing the material/electrode 
after measurement, and eventually monitoring the radioactivity of equipment after use. 
Before being discharged, the patient should be instructed in the necessary radioprotection rules for 
interacting with other members of the same household and the general public, and the general 
precautions the patient must follow during daily activities after treatment (as given in the next 
paragraph and the package leaflet) to minimise radiation exposure to others. 
After each administration, the following general recommendations can be considered along with 
national, local and institutional procedures and regulations: 
• 
• 
Close contact (less than 1 metre) with other people should be limited for 7 days. 
For children and/or pregnant women, close contact (less than 1 metre) should be limited to less 
than 15 minutes per day for 7 days. 
Patients should sleep in a separate bedroom from other people for 7 days. 
Patients should sleep in a separate bedroom from children and/or pregnant women for 15 days. 
• 
• 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommended measures in case of extravasation 
Disposable waterproof gloves should be worn. The infusion of the medicinal product must be 
immediately ceased and the administration device (catheter, etc.) removed. The nuclear medicine 
physician and the radiopharmacist should be informed. 
All the administration device materials should be kept in order to measure the residual radioactivity 
and the activity actually administered and the absorbed dose should be determined. The extravasation 
area should be delimited with an indelible pen and a picture should be taken if possible. It is also 
recommended to record the time of extravasation and the estimated volume extravasated. 
To continue Lutathera infusion, it is mandatory to use a new catheter, possibly placing it in a 
contralateral venous access. 
No additional medicinal product can be administered to the same side where the extravasation 
occurred. 
In order to accelerate medicinal product dispersion and to prevent its stagnation in tissue, it is 
recommended to increase blood flow by elevating the affected arm. Depending on the case, aspiration 
of extravasation fluid, flush injection of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, or 
application of warm compresses or a heating pad to the infusion site to accelerate vasodilation should 
be considered. 
Symptoms, especially inflammation and/or pain, should be treated. Depending on the situation, the 
nuclear medicine physician should inform the patient about the risks linked to extravasation injury and 
give advice about potential treatment and necessary follow-up requirements. The extravasation area 
must be monitored until the patient is discharged from the hospital. Depending on its severity, this 
event should be declared as an adverse reaction. 
Patients with urinary incontinence 
During the first 2 days following administration of this medicinal product, special precautions should 
be taken with patients with urinary incontinence to avoid spread of radioactive contamination. This 
includes the handling of any materials possibly contaminated with urine. 
Patients with brain metastases 
There are no efficacy data in patients with known brain metastases, therefore individual benefit-risk 
must be assessed in these patients. 
Secondary malignant neoplasms 
Exposure to ionising radiation is linked with cancer induction and a potential for development of 
hereditary defects. The radiation dose resulting from therapeutic exposure may result in higher 
incidence of cancer and mutations. In all cases it is necessary to ensure that the risks of the radiation 
exposure are less than from the disease itself. 
Other patients with risk factors 
Patients presenting with any of the conditions below are more prone to develop adverse reactions. 
Therefore, it is recommended to monitor such patients more frequently during the treatment. Please 
see Table 3 in case of dose modifying toxicity. 
• 
• 
Bone metastasis; 
Previous oncological radiometabolic therapies with 131I compounds or any other therapy using 
unshielded radioactive sources; 
History of other malignant tumours unless the patient is considered to have been in remission 
for at least 5 years. 
• 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contraception in males and females 
Female patients of reproductive potential should be advised to use effective contraception during 
treatment and for 7 months after the last dose of Lutathera (see section 4.6). 
Male patients with female partners of reproductive potential should be advised to use effective 
contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose of Lutathera (see section 4.6). 
Specific warnings and precautions regarding the co-administered renal protective amino acid solution 
Hyperkalaemia 
A transient increase in serum potassium levels may occur in patients receiving arginine and lysine, 
usually returning to normal levels within 24 hours from the start of the amino acid solution infusion. 
Patients with reduced creatinine clearance may be at increased risk for transient hyperkalaemia (see 
“Renal toxicity” in section 4.4). 
Serum potassium levels must be tested before each administration of amino acid solution. In case of 
hyperkalaemia, the patient’s history of hyperkalaemia and concomitant medicinal product should be 
checked. Hyperkalaemia must be corrected accordingly before starting the infusion. 
In case of pre-existing clinically significant hyperkalaemia, a second monitoring prior to amino acid 
solution infusion must confirm that hyperkalaemia has been successfully corrected. The patient should 
be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hyperkalaemia, e.g. dyspnoea, weakness, numbness, 
chest pain and cardiac manifestations (conduction abnormalities and cardiac arrhythmias). An 
electrocardiogram (ECG) should be performed prior to discharging the patient. 
Vital signs should be monitored during the infusion regardless of baseline serum potassium levels. 
Patients should be encouraged to remain hydrated and to urinate frequently before, on the day of and 
the day after administration (e.g. 1 glass of water every hour) to facilitate elimination of excess serum 
potassium. 
In case hyperkalaemia symptoms develop during amino acid solution infusion, appropriate corrective 
measures must be taken. In case of severe symptomatic hyperkalaemia, discontinuation of amino acid 
solution infusion should be considered, taking into consideration the benefit-risk of renal protection 
versus acute hyperkalaemia. 
Heart failure 
Due to potential for clinical complications related to volume overload, care should be taken with use 
of arginine and lysine in patients with severe heart failure defined as class III or class IV in the NYHA 
(New York Heart Association) classification. Patients with severe heart failure defined as class III or 
class IV in the NYHA classification should only be treated after careful benefit-risk assessment, taking 
into consideration the volume and osmolality of the amino acid solution. 
Metabolic acidosis 
Metabolic acidosis has been observed with complex amino acid solutions administered as part of total 
parenteral nutrition (TPN) protocols. Shifts in acid-base balance alter the balance of 
extracellular-intracellular potassium and the development of acidosis may be associated with rapid 
increases in plasma potassium. 
Specific warnings 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains up to 3.5 mmol (81.1 mg) sodium per vial, equivalent to 4% of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
Precautions with respect to environmental hazard see section 6.6. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Somatostatin analogues 
Somatostatin and its analogues competitively bind to somatostatin receptors and may interfere with the 
efficacy of Lutathera. Therefore, administration of long-acting somatostatin analogues should be 
avoided within 30 days prior to the administration of this medicinal product. If necessary, patients may 
be treated with short-acting somatostatin analogues up to 24 hours preceding Lutathera administration. 
Glucocorticoids 
There is some evidence that glucocorticoids can induce down-regulation of subtype 2 somatostatin 
receptors (SSTR2). Therefore, as a matter of caution, repeated administration of high doses of 
glucocorticoids should be avoided during Lutathera treatment. Patients with a history of chronic use of 
glucocorticoids should be carefully evaluated for sufficient somatostatin receptor expression. It is not 
known whether the intermittent use of glucocorticoids for the prevention of nausea and vomiting 
during Lutathera administration could induce SSTR2 down-regulation. As a matter of caution, 
glucocorticoids should also be avoided as preventive antiemetic treatment. In the event that the 
treatment administered for the prevention of nausea and vomiting before the amino acid solution 
infusion proves insufficient, a single glucocorticoid dose can be used, provided it is not given before 
initiating or within one hour after the end of Lutathera infusion. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
When an administration of radiopharmaceuticals to a woman of childbearing potential is intended, it is 
important to determine whether or not she is pregnant. Any woman who has missed a period should be 
assumed to be pregnant until proven otherwise. If in any doubt about her potential pregnancy (if the 
woman has missed a period, if the period is very irregular, etc.), alternative techniques not using 
ionising radiation (if there are any) should be offered to the patient. Before the use of Lutathera, 
pregnancy should be excluded using an adequate/validated test. 
Contraception in males and females 
Lutathera can cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. 
Female patients of reproductive potential should be advised to use effective contraception during 
treatment and for 7 months after the last dose of Lutathera. 
Male patients with female partners of reproductive potential should be advised to use effective 
contraception during treatment and for 4 months after the last dose of Lutathera. 
Pregnancy 
No studies on animal reproductive function have been conducted with lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide. 
Radionuclide procedures carried out on pregnant women also involve a radiation dose to the foetus. 
The use of Lutathera is contraindicated during established or suspected pregnancy or when pregnancy 
has not been excluded due to the risk associated with the ionising radiation (see section 4.3). Pregnant 
women should be advised of the risk to a foetus. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide is excreted in breast milk. A risk to the 
breast-fed child associated with ionising radiation cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be 
avoided during treatment with this medicinal product. If treatment with Lutathera during 
breast-feeding is necessary, the child must be weaned. 
Fertility 
No animal studies have been performed to determine the effects of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide on 
male and female fertility. Ionising radiations of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide may potentially have 
temporary toxic effects on female and male gonads. Genetic consultation is recommended if the 
patient wishes to have children after treatment. Cryopreservation of sperm or eggs can be discussed as 
an option for patients before treatment. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lutathera has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Nevertheless, the 
general condition of the patient and the possible adverse reactions to treatment must be taken into 
account before driving or using machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The overall safety profile of Lutathera is based on pooled data from patients from clinical studies 
(NETTER-1 phase III and Erasmus phase I/II Dutch patients) and from compassionate use 
programmes. 
The most common adverse reactions in patients receiving Lutathera treatment were nausea and 
vomiting, which occurred at the beginning of the infusion in 58.9% and 45.5% of patients, 
respectively. The causality of nausea/vomiting is confounded by the emetic effect of the concomitant 
amino acid solution administered for renal protection. 
Due to the bone marrow toxicity of Lutathera, the most expected adverse reactions were related to 
haematological toxicity: thrombocytopenia (25%), lymphopenia (22.3%), anaemia (13.4%), 
pancytopenia (10.2%). 
Other very common adverse reactions reported include fatigue (27.7%) and decreased appetite 
(13.4%). 
At the time of the NETTER-1 final analysis, after a median follow-up duration of 76 months in each 
study arm, the safety profile remained consistent with that previously reported. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions are listed in Table 5 according to frequency and MedDRA System Organ Class 
(SOC). The frequencies are categorised as follows: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), 
uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000), very rare (<1/10 000) and not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Frequency of adverse reactions reported from clinical studies and post-marketing 
surveillance 
MedDRA System 
Organ Class (SOC) 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders  
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Conjunctivitis 
Respiratory tract infection 
Cystitis 
Pneumonia 
Herpes zoster 
Ophthalmic herpes zoster 
Influenza 
Staphylococcal infections 
Streptococcal bacteraemia 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
Acute leukaemia 
Chronic myelomonocytic 
leukaemia 
Refractory cytopenia with 
unilineage dysplasia 
Nephrogenic anaemia 
Bone marrow failure 
Thrombocytopenic purpura 
Hypersensitivity 
Angioedema 
Refractory cytopenia with 
multilineage dysplasia 
(myelodysplastic 
syndrome) 
Leukopenia5 
Neutropenia6 
Thrombocytopenia2 
Lymphopenia3 
Anaemia4 
Pancytopenia 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Decreased appetite 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Hyperglycaemia 
Dehydration 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Secondary hypothyroidism  Hypothyroidism 
Diabetes mellitus 
Carcinoid crisis 
Hyperparathyroidism 
Hypoglycaemia 
Hypernatraemia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Hypercalcaemia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Metabolic acidosis 
Anxiety 
Hallucination 
Disorientation 
Formication 
Hepatic encephalopathy 
Paraesthesia 
Parosmia 
Somnolence 
Spinal cord compression 
Eye disorders 
Vertigo 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Headache10 
Lethargy 
Syncope 
Sleep disorders 
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged 
Hypertension7 
Flushing 
Hot flush 
Hypotension 
Dyspnoea 
Atrial fibrillation 
Palpitations 
Myocardial infarction 
Angina pectoris 
Cardiogenic shock 
Vasodilatation 
Peripheral coldness 
Pallor 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Phlebitis 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Pleural effusion 
Sputum increased 
Choking sensation 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dry mouth 
Flatulence 
Ascites 
Gastrointestinal pain 
Stomatitis 
Haematochezia 
Abdominal discomfort 
Intestinal obstruction 
Colitis 
Pancreatitis acute 
Rectal haemorrhage 
Melaena 
Abdominal pain lower 
Haematemesis 
Haemorrhagic ascites 
Ileus 
Pancreatic enzymes 
decreased 
Hepatocellular injury 
Cholestasis 
Hepatic congestion 
Hepatic failure 
Rash 
Dry skin 
Swelling face 
Hyperhidrosis 
Pruritus generalised 
Leukocyturia 
Urinary incontinence 
Glomerular filtration rate 
decreased 
Renal disorder 
Acute pre-renal failure 
Renal impairment 
Injection site mass 
Chest discomfort 
Chest pain 
Pyrexia 
Malaise 
Pain 
Death 
Feeling abnormal 
Blood potassium decreased 
Blood urea increased 
Glycosylated haemoglobin 
increased 
Haematocrit decreased 
Protein urine 
Weight decreased 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase 
increased 
Blood catecholamines 
C-reactive protein increased 
Clavicle fracture 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal distension  
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain upper 
Dyspepsia 
Gastritis 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Hyperbilirubinaemia9 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Fatigue1 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Alopecia 
Musculoskeletal pain8 
Muscle spasms 
Acute kidney injury 
Haematuria 
Renal failure 
Proteinuria 
Injection site reaction11 
Oedema peripheral 
Administration site pain 
Chills 
Influenza-like illness 
Blood creatinine increased 
GGT* increased 
ALT** increased 
AST*** increased 
Blood ALP**** increased 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surgical and medical 
procedures 
Transfusion 
Social circumstances 
Abdominal cavity drainage 
Dialysis 
Gastrointestinal tube 
insertion 
Stent placement 
Abscess drainage 
Bone marrow harvest 
Polypectomy 
Physical disability 
1 Includes asthenia and fatigue 
2 Includes thrombocytopenia and platelet count decreased 
3 Includes lymphopenia and lymphocyte count decreased 
4 Includes anaemia and haemoglobin decreased 
5 Includes leukopenia and white blood cell count decreased 
6 Includes neutropenia and neutrophil count decreased 
7 Includes hypertension and hypertensive crisis 
8 Includes arthralgia, pain in extremity, back pain, bone pain, flank pain, musculoskeletal chest pain and neck 
pain 
9 Includes blood bilirubin increased and hyperbilirubinaemia 
10 Includes headache and migraine 
11 Includes injection site reaction, injection site hypersensibility, injection site induration, injection site swelling 
*Gamma-glutamyltransferase 
**Alanine aminotransferase 
***Aspartate aminotransferase 
****Alkaline phosphatase 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Myelosuppression 
Mostly mild/moderate bone marrow toxicity (myelo-/haematotoxicity) manifested with 
reversible/transient reductions in blood counts affecting all lineages (cytopenias in all combinations, 
i.e. pancytopenia, bicytopenias, isolated monocytopenias – anaemia, neutropenia, lymphocytopenia 
and thrombocytopenia). In spite of an observed significant selective B-cell depletion, no increase in 
the rate of infectious complications occurs after peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT). Cases 
of irreversible haematological pathologies, i.e. premalignant and malignant blood neoplasms (i.e. 
myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia, respectively) have been reported following 
Lutathera treatment. 
In NETTER-1, platelet nadir occurred at a median of 5.1 months following the first dose. Of the 
59 patients who developed thrombocytopenia, 68% had platelet recovery to baseline or normal levels. 
The median time to platelet recovery was 2 months. Fifteen of the nineteen patients in whom platelet 
recovery was not documented had post-nadir platelet counts. 
Renal toxicity 
Lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide is excreted by the kidney. 
The long-term trend of progressive glomerular filtration function deterioration demonstrated in the 
clinical studies confirms that Lutathera-related nephropathy is a chronic kidney disease that develops 
progressively over months or years after exposure. An individual benefit-risk assessment is 
recommended prior to treatment with Lutathera in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
For additional details see section 4.2 (Table 3 and “Renal impairment” subsection) and section 4.4. 
The use of Lutathera is contraindicated in patients with kidney failure with creatinine clearance 
<30 mL/min (see section 4.3). 
Neuroendocrine hormonal crises 
Hormonal crises related to release of bioactive substances (probably due to lysis of the neuroendocrine 
tumour cells) have rarely been observed and resolved after appropriate medical treatment (see 
section 4.4). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose is unlikely with Lutathera as this medicinal product is supplied as a single-dose and 
ready-to-use product containing a predefined amount of radioactivity and it is administered by persons 
authorised to handle radiopharmaceuticals after evaluation of the patient by a qualified physician. In 
the event of overdose, an increase in the frequency of the adverse reactions related to radiotoxicity is 
expected. 
In the event of administration of a radiation overdose with Lutathera, the absorbed dose to the patient 
should be reduced where possible by increasing the elimination of the radionuclide from the body by 
frequent micturition or by forced diuresis and frequent bladder voiding during the first 48 hours after 
infusion. It might be helpful to estimate the effective dose that was applied. 
The following laboratory tests should be carried out every week, for the next 10 weeks: 
• 
Haematological monitoring: white blood cell count with differential counts, platelets and 
haemoglobin 
Blood chemistry monitoring: serum creatinine and glycaemia. 
• 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals, Other therapeutic 
radiopharmaceuticals, ATC code: V10XX04 
Mechanism of action 
Lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide has a high affinity for subtype 2 somatostatin receptors (SSTR2). It 
binds to malignant cells which overexpress SSTR2. 
Lutetium-177 is a β- emitting radionuclide with a maximum penetration range in tissue of 2.2 mm 
(mean penetration range of 0.67 mm), causing death of the targeted tumour cells with a limited effect 
on neighbouring normal cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
At the concentration used (about 10 μg/mL in total, for both free and radiolabelled forms), the peptide 
oxodotreotide does not exert any clinically relevant pharmacodynamic effect. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
NETTER-1 
The NETTER-1 phase III study was a multicentre, stratified, open-label, randomised, 
comparator-controlled, parallel-group study comparing treatment with Lutathera (4 doses of 
7 400 MBq, one dose every 8 weeks [±1 week]) co-administered with an amino acid solution and best 
supportive care (octreotide long-acting release [LAR] 30 mg after each Lutathera dose and every 
4 weeks after completion of Lutathera treatment for symptom control, replaced by short-acting 
octreotide in the 4-week interval before Lutathera administration) to high-dose octreotide LAR (60 mg 
every 4 weeks) in patients with inoperable, progressive, somatostatin receptor-positive, midgut 
carcinoid tumours. The primary endpoint for the study was progression-free survival (PFS) evaluated 
by response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST v1.1), based on blinded independent review 
committee assessment. Secondary efficacy endpoints included objective response rate (ORR), overall 
survival (OS), time to tumour progression (TTP), safety and tolerability of the medicinal product, and 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL). 
At the time of the primary analysis, 229 patients were randomised to receive either Lutathera (n=116) 
or high-dose octreotide LAR (n=113). Demographic and baseline disease characteristics were well 
balanced between the treatment arms with a median age of 64 years and 82.1% Caucasian in the 
general population. 
At the time of the primary PFS analysis (cut–off date 24 July 2015), the number of centrally confirmed 
disease progressions or deaths was 21 events in the Lutathera arm and 70 events in the high-dose 
octreotide LAR arm (Table 6). PFS differed significantly (p<0.0001) between the treatment arms. The 
median PFS for the Lutathera arm was not reached at the cut-off date, whereas the median PFS for the 
high-dose octreotide LAR arm was 8.5 months. The hazard ratio (HR) for the Lutathera arm compared 
to the high-dose octreotide LAR arm was 0.18 (95% CI: 0.11; 0.29), indicating 82% reduction in the 
risk of disease progression or death in favour of the Lutathera arm. 
Table 6 
PFS observed in the NETTER-1 phase III study in patients with progressive midgut 
carcinoid tumours – cut–off date 24 July 2015 (full analysis set [FAS], N=229) 
N 
Patients with events 
Censored patients 
Median in months (95% CI) 
p-value of Log-rank test 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Treatment 
Lutathera and octreotide 
LAR 
116 
21 
95 
Not reached 
High-dose octreotide LAR 
113 
70 
43 
8.5 (5.8; 9.1) 
<0.0001 
0.177 (0.108; 0.289) 
N: number of patients, CI: confidence interval. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PFS Kaplan-Meier graph for the full analysis set (FAS) at the cut–off date 24 July 2015 is 
depicted in Figure 2. 
Figure 2 
PFS Kaplan-Meier curves for patients with progressive midgut carcinoid tumours - 
cut–off date 24 July 2015 (NETTER-1 phase III study; FAS, N=229) 
At the cut-off date for post-hoc statistical analysis (cut-off date 30 June 2016) including two additional 
randomised patients (N=231), the number of centrally confirmed disease progressions or deaths was 
30 events in the Lutathera arm and 78 events in the high-dose octreotide LAR arm (Table 7). PFS 
differed significantly (p<0.0001) between the treatment arms. The median PFS for the Lutathera arm 
was 28.4 months whereas the median PFS for the high-dose octreotide LAR arm was 8.5 months. The 
hazard ratio for the Lutathera arm compared to the high-dose octreotide LAR arm was 0.21 (95% CI: 
0.14; 0.33), indicating 79% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death in favour of the 
Lutathera arm. 
Table 7 
PFS observed in the NETTER-1 phase III study in patients with progressive midgut 
carcinoid tumours - cut-off date 30 June 2016 (FAS, N=231) 
N 
Patients with events 
Censored patients 
Median in months (95% CI) 
p-value of Log-rank test 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
Treatment 
Lutathera and octreotide 
LAR 
117 
30 
87 
28.4 (28.4; NE) 
High-dose octreotide LAR 
114 
78 
36 
8.5 (5.8; 11.0) 
<0.0001 
0.214 (0.139; 0.330) 
N: number of patients, CI: confidence interval. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PFS Kaplan-Meier graph for the FAS at the cut-off date 30 June 2016 is depicted in Figure 3. 
Figure 3 
PFS Kaplan-Meier curves for patients with progressive midgut carcinoid tumours - 
cut-off date 30 June 2016 (NETTER-1 phase III study; FAS, N=231) 
At the time of the interim OS analysis (cut-off date 24 July 2015), there were 17 deaths in the 
Lutathera arm and 31 deaths in the high-dose octreotide LAR arm, yielding a HR of 0.459 (99.9915% 
CI: 0.140; 1.506) in favour of the Lutathera arm. The median OS was not reached in the Lutathera arm 
at the cut-off date, while it was 27.4 months in the high-dose octreotide LAR arm. The interim OS 
results did not reach statistical significance. An update conducted about one year later (cut-off date 30 
June 2016) including two additional randomised patients (N=231) showed a similar trend, with 
28 deaths in the Lutathera arm and 43 deaths in the high-dose octreotide LAR arm, yielding a HR of 
0.536 in favour of the Lutathera arm. The median OS was still not reached in the Lutathera arm at the 
cut-off date, while it was 27.4 months in the high-dose octreotide LAR arm. 
At the time of the final OS analysis, which occurred 5 years after the last patient was randomised 
(N=231, cut-off date 18 January 2021), the median follow-up duration was 76 months in each study 
arm. There were 73 deaths in the Lutathera arm (62.4%) and 69 deaths in the high-dose octreotide 
LAR arm (60.5%), yielding a HR of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.60; 1.17; unstratified Log-rank test p=0.3039, 
two-sided) in favour of the Lutathera arm. The median OS was prolonged by a clinically relevant 
extent of 11.7 months in patients randomised to the Lutathera arm compared to patients randomised to 
high-dose octreotide LAR, with a median OS of 48.0 months (95% CI: 37.4; 55.2) and 36.3 months 
(95% CI: 25.9; 51.7), respectively. The final OS results did not reach statistical significance. In the 
high-dose octreotide LAR arm, 22.8% of patients received subsequent radioligand therapy (including 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide) within 24 months of randomisation, and 36% of patients received 
subsequent radioligand therapy by the final OS cut-off date, which along with other factors may have 
influenced the OS in this subset of patients. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The OS Kaplan-Meier graph for the FAS at the cut-off date 18 January 2021 is depicted in Figure 4. 
Figure 4  OS Kaplan-Meier curves for patients with progressive midgut carcinoid tumours - 
cut-off date 18 January 2021 (NETTER-1 phase III study; FAS, N=231) 
)
%
(
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
p
e
e
r
f
-
t
n
e
v
E
+○ Censoring times 
++(a) Lutathera and octreotide LAR 
○○(b) High-dose octreotide LAR 
Number of subjects at risk 
Time from randomisation (months) 
(a) 
(b) 
In presence of non-proportional hazards, an additional sensitivity analysis (Restricted mean survival 
time) was performed at the time of the final OS analysis to further estimate the treatment effect 
(Table 8). At 60 months after randomisation, the average OS benefit was 5.1 months (95% CI: -0.5; 
10.7) longer in the Lutathera arm compared to the high-dose octreotide LAR arm. 
Table 8 
OS by restricted mean survival time (RMST) observed in the NETTER-1 phase III 
study in patients with progressive midgut carcinoid tumours (FAS, N=231) 
24 months  Deaths, n (%) 
RMST (95% CI) 
Difference (95% CI) 
Lutathera and 
octreotide LAR N=117 
26 (22.2) 
21.2 (20.2; 22.3) 
High-dose octreotide 
LAR N=114 
39 (34.2) 
19.3 (18.0; 20.7) 
1.9 (0.1; 3.6) 
36 months  Deaths, n (%) 
RMST (95% CI) 
Difference (95% CI) 
41 (35.0) 
29.7 (27.7; 31.6) 
51 (44.7) 
26.0 (23.7; 28.3) 
3.7 (0.7; 6.7) 
48 months  Deaths, n (%) 
RMST (95% CI) 
Difference (95% CI) 
53 (45.3) 
36.2 (33.4; 39.0) 
58 (50.9) 
31.5 (28.3; 34.8) 
4.6 (0.3; 8.9) 
60 months  Deaths, n (%) 
RMST (95% CI) 
Difference (95% CI) 
65 (55.6) 
41.2 (37.6; 44.9) 
63 (55.3) 
36.1 (31.9; 40.4) 
5.1 (-0.5; 10.7) 
Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) was assessed using the European Organisation for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) (generic instrument) and 
its neuroendocrine tumour module (EORTC QLQ-GI.NET-21). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results indicate an improvement in the overall global health-related quality of life up to week 84, 
for patients in the Lutathera treatment arm as compared to patients in the high-dose octreotide LAR 
arm. 
ERASMUS 
The Erasmus phase I/II study was a monocentric single-arm open-label study to evaluate the efficacy 
of Lutathera (4 doses of 7 400 MBq each, one dose every 8 weeks) co-administered with amino acid 
solution in patients with somatostatin receptor-positive tumours. The median age of patients enrolled 
in the study was 59 years. Most patients were Dutch (811) with the remaining (403) residents of 
various European and non-European countries. The main analysis included 811 Dutch patients with 
different somatostatin receptor-positive neuroendocrine tumour types (NETs). The ORR (including 
complete response [CR] and partial response [PR] according to RECIST criteria) and duration of 
response (DoR) for the FAS Dutch population with gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) and bronchial NETs 
(360 patients) as well as per tumour type are presented in Table 9. 
Table 9 
Best response, ORR and DoR observed in the Erasmus phase I/II study in Dutch 
patients with GEP and bronchial NETs – (FAS, N=360) 
N 
CR 
PR 
SD 
ORR 
DoR (months) 
n  % 
n  % 
95%CI  Median 
n  %  N  % 
Tumour 
type 
All NETs*  360  11  3%  151  42%  183  51%  162  45%  40%  50% 
Bronchial 
37%  16%  62% 
Pancreatic 
61%  52%  69% 
Foregut** 
58%  28%  85% 
Midgut 
33%  27%  41% 
Hindgut 
46%  19%  75% 
17.8 
30.0 
21.8 
38.0 
17.7 
29.9 
CR = Complete response; PR = Partial response; SD = Stable disease; ORR = Objective response rate (CR+PR); DoR = Duration of response 
* Includes foregut, midgut and hindgut; **Foregut NETs other than bronchial and pancreatic 
19  0  0% 
7 
133  7  5%  74 
6 
12  1  8% 
183  3  2%  58 
6 
13  0  0% 
37%  11  58% 
56%  47  35% 
50%  4  33% 
32%  115  63% 
46%  6  46% 
16.3 
23.9 
16.3 
22.3 
15.3 
17.8 
12.2 
1.7 
12.1 
0.0 
10.5 
6.2 
7 
81 
7 
61 
6 
95%CI 
The overall median PFS and OS for the FAS Dutch population with GEP and bronchial NETs as well 
as per tumour type are presented in Table 10. 
Table 10  PFS and OS observed in the Erasmus phase I/II study in Dutch patients with GEP 
and bronchial NETs – (FAS, N=360) 
All NETs* 
Bronchial 
Pancreatic 
Foregut** 
Midgut 
Hindgut 
360 
19 
133 
12 
183 
13 
PFS 
Time (months) 
95%CI 
Median 
28.5 
18.4 
30.3 
43.9 
28.5 
29.4 
24.8 
10.4 
24.3 
10.9 
23.9 
18.9 
31.4 
25.5 
36.3 
ND 
33.3 
35.0 
Median 
61.2 
50.6 
66.4 
NR 
54.9 
NR 
OS 
Time (months) 
95%CI 
54.8 
31.3 
57.2 
21.3 
47.5 
ND 
67.4 
85.4 
80.9 
ND 
63.2 
ND 
PFS = Progression free survival; OS = Overall survival; ND = Not detected, NR = Not reached 
* Includes foregut, midgut and hindgut; **Foregut NETs other than bronchial and pancreatic 
In the Erasmus phase I/II study 188 patients (52%) received and 172 (48%) did not receive 
concomitant octreotide LAR during Lutathera treatment. No statistically significant difference in PFS 
was observed between the subgroup of patients who did not receive octreotide LAR (25.4 months 
[95% CI 22.8; 30.6]) and the subgroup of patients who did receive concomitant treatment with 
octreotide LAR (30.9 months [95% CI 25.6; 34.8]) (p= 0.747). 
22 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Lutathera in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of GEP-NETs (excluding 
neuroblastoma, neuroganglioblastoma and phaeochromocytoma) (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
This medicinal product is administered intravenously and is immediately and completely bioavailable. 
Distribution 
An analysis performed with human plasma to determine the extent of plasma protein binding of 
non-radioactive compound (lutetium (175Lu) oxodotreotide) showed that about 50% of the compound 
is bound to plasmatic proteins. 
Transchelation of lutetium-177 from lutetium (175Lu) oxodotreotide into serum proteins has not been 
observed. 
Organ uptake 
Within 4 hours after administration, the distribution pattern of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide shows a 
rapid uptake in kidneys, tumour lesions, liver, and spleen, and in some patients, in the pituitary gland 
and in the thyroid. The co-administration of amino acid solution decreases the kidney uptake, 
enhancing the elimination of radioactivity (see section 4.4). Biodistribution studies show that lutetium 
(177Lu) oxodotreotide is rapidly cleared from the blood. 
Biotransformation 
There is evidence, from the analysis of urine samples of 20 patients included in the NETTER-1 
phase III dosimetry, pharmacokinetic and ECG sub-study, that lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide is poorly 
metabolised and is excreted mainly as intact compound via the renal route. 
The high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses performed on urine samples collected 
up to 48 hours post infusion showed unchanged lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide close to 100% in most 
of the analysed samples (with lowest value being greater than 92%), indicating that the compound is 
eliminated in urine mainly as intact compound. 
This evidence confirms what was previously observed in the Erasmus phase I/II study, in which HPLC 
analysis of a urine specimen collected 1 hour post administration of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide 
from one patient receiving 1.85 MBq of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide indicated that the main portion 
(91%) was excreted unchanged. 
These findings are supported by in vitro metabolism data in human hepatocytes, in which no metabolic 
degradation of lutetium (175Lu) oxodotreotide was observed. 
Elimination 
Based on the data collected during the Erasmus phase I/II and NETTER-1 phase III studies, lutetium 
(177Lu) oxodotreotide is primarily eliminated by renal excretion: about 60% of the medicinal product is 
eliminated in the urine within 24 hours, and about 65% within 48 hours following the administration. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
The pharmacokinetic profile in elderly patients (≥75 years) has not been established. No data are 
available. 
In vitro evaluation of interaction potential 
Metabolic and transporter based interaction 
The absence of inhibition or significant induction of the human CYP450 enzymes, and the absence of 
specific interaction with P-glycoprotein (efflux transporter) or OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, 
OATP1B1, OATP1B3 and BCRP transporters in pre-clinical studies, suggest that Lutathera has a low 
probability of causing significant metabolism- or transporter-mediated interactions. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Toxicological studies in rats demonstrated that a single intravenous injection of up to 4 550 MBq/kg 
was well tolerated and no deaths were observed. When testing the cold compound (non-radioactive 
lutetium (175Lu) oxodotreotide) as a single intravenous injection in rats and dogs at doses up to 
20 000 µg/kg (rats) and 3 200 µg/kg (dogs), the cold compound (non-radioactive lutetium (175Lu) 
oxodotreotide) was well tolerated in both species and no deaths were observed. Toxicity with 
4 repeated administrations, once every 2 weeks, of 1 250 µg/kg of the cold compound in rats and 
80 µg/kg in dogs was not observed. This medicinal product is not intended for regular or continuous 
administration. 
Mutagenicity studies and long-term carcinogenicity studies have not been carried out. 
Non-clinical data on the cold compound (non-radioactive lutetium (175Lu) oxodotreotide) reveal no 
special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose 
toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate  
Gentisic acid 
Ascorbic acid 
Pentetic acid 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 12. 
6.3  Shelf life 
72 hours from the date and time of calibration. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25°C. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package to protect from ionising radiation (lead shielding). 
Storage of radiopharmaceuticals should be in accordance with national regulations on radioactive 
materials. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear, colourless Type I glass vial, closed with a bromobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium seal. 
Each vial contains a volume that ranges from 20.5 to 25.0 mL of solution, corresponding to an activity 
of 7 400 MBq at date and time of infusion. 
The vial is enclosed within a lead container for protective shielding. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
For single use only. 
General warning 
Radiopharmaceuticals should be received, used and administered only by authorised persons in 
designated clinical settings. Their receipt, storage, use, transfer and disposal are subject to the 
regulations and/or appropriate licences of the competent official organisation. 
Radiopharmaceuticals should be prepared in a manner which satisfies both radiation safety and 
pharmaceutical quality requirements. Appropriate aseptic precautions should be taken. 
For instructions on preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see section 12. 
If at any time in the preparation of this medicinal product the integrity of the lead container or the vial 
is compromised it should not be used. 
Administration procedures should be carried out in a way to minimise risk of contamination of the 
medicinal product and irradiation of the operators. Adequate shielding is mandatory. 
It is necessary to wear waterproof gloves and follow suitable aseptic techniques when handling the 
medicinal product. 
The administration of radiopharmaceuticals creates risks for other persons from external radiation or 
contamination from spill of urine, vomiting, etc. Radiation protection precautions in accordance with 
national regulations must therefore be taken. 
This preparation is likely to result in a relatively high radiation dose to most patients. The 
administration of 7 400 MBq may result in significant environmental hazard. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This may be of concern to others living in the same household as individuals undergoing treatment or 
to the general public depending on the level of activity administered, hence radioprotection rules 
should be followed (see section 4.4). Suitable precautions in accordance with national regulations 
should be taken concerning the activity eliminated by the patients in order to avoid any 
contaminations. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Advanced Accelerator Applications 
8-10 Rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 
92500 Rueil-Malmaison 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1226/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 September 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 08 July 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
11.  DOSIMETRY 
The following conclusions on treatment with Lutathera were determined from radiation dosimetry 
evaluations performed in clinical studies: 
• 
The critical organ is the bone marrow. However, with the recommended Lutathera cumulative 
dose of 29 600 MBq (4 administrations of 7 400 MBq), no correlation between haematological 
toxicity and the total radioactivity administered or bone marrow absorbed dose has been 
observed either in the Erasmus phase I/II or in the NETTER-1 phase III study. 
The kidney is not a critical organ if a co-infusion of an appropriate amino acid solution is 
performed (see section 4.2). 
• 
Overall, the results of the dosimetric analysis performed in the NETTER-1 phase III dosimetry 
sub-study and in the Erasmus phase I/II study are in agreement and indicate that the Lutathera dose 
regimen (4 administrations of 7 400 MBq) is safe. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11  Absorbed dose estimates for lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide from NETTER-1 
phase III study (Olinda output) 
Organ 
Adrenals 
Brain 
Breasts 
Gallbladder wall 
Lower large intestine wall 
Small intestine 
Stomach wall 
Upper large intestine wall 
Heart wall 
Kidneys 
Liver* 
Lungs 
Muscle 
Ovaries*** 
Pancreas 
Red marrow 
Osteogenic cells 
Skin 
Spleen 
Testes** 
Thymus 
Thyroid 
Urinary bladder wall 
Uterus*** 
Total body 
Organ absorbed dose per unit activity 
(mGy/MBq) 
(n = 20) 
Mean  
0.037 
0.027 
0.027 
0.042 
0.029 
0.031 
0.032 
0.032 
0.032 
0.654 
0.299 
0.031 
0.029 
0.031 
0.038 
0.035 
0.151 
0.027 
0.846 
0.026 
0.028 
0.027 
0.437 
0.032 
0.052 
SD 
0.016 
0.016 
0.015 
0.019 
0.016 
0.015 
0.015 
0.015 
0.015 
0.295 
0.226 
0.015 
0.015 
0.013 
0.016 
0.029 
0.268 
0.015 
0.804 
0.018 
0.015 
0.016 
0.176 
0.013 
0.027 
*n=18 (two patients excluded because the liver absorbed dose was biased by the uptake of the liver 
metastases) 
**n=11 (male patients only) 
***n=9 (female patients only) 
Radiation dose to specific organs, which may not be the target organ of therapy, can be influenced 
significantly by pathophysiological changes induced by the disease process. This should be taken into 
consideration when using the following information. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS 
Preparation instructions 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Use aseptic technique and radiation shielding when administering the Lutathera solution. Use 
tongs when handling the vial to minimise radiation exposure. 
Visually inspect the product under a shielded screen for particulate matter and discoloration 
prior to administration. Discard the vial if particulates and/or discoloration are present. 
Inspect the package for damage and use a calibrated radioactivity measurement system to 
determine if any radioactive contamination is present. Do not use the product if the integrity of 
the vial or the lead container is compromised. 
Do not inject the Lutathera solution directly into any other intravenous solution. 
Confirm the amount of radioactivity of Lutathera delivered to the patient with a calibrated 
radioactivity measurement system prior to and after each Lutathera administration to confirm 
that the actual amount of radioactivity administered is equal to the planned amount. 
Do not administer Lutathera as an intravenous bolus. 
Soon after the start of the infusion, monitor the radioactivity emission from the patient using a 
calibrated radioactivity measurement system to ensure the dose is delivered. During the 
infusion, the radioactivity emission from the patient should steadily increase, while that from 
the Lutathera vial should decrease. 
Careful monitoring of the patient’s vital signs during the infusion is recommended. 
Intravenous methods of administration 
Instructions for the gravity method (using a clamp or an infusion pump) 
1. 
Insert a 2.5 cm, 20 gauge needle (short needle) into the Lutathera vial and connect via a catheter 
to 500 mL 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution (used to transport the Lutathera solution during 
the infusion). Ensure that the short needle does not touch the Lutathera solution in the vial and 
do not connect this short needle directly to the patient. Do not allow the sodium chloride 
solution to flow into the Lutathera vial prior to the initiation of the Lutathera infusion and do not 
inject the Lutathera solution directly into the sodium chloride solution. 
Insert a second needle that is 9 cm, 18 gauge (long needle) into the Lutathera vial, ensuring that 
this long needle touches and is secured to the bottom of the Lutathera vial during the entire 
infusion. Connect the long needle to the patient by an intravenous catheter that is pre-filled with 
0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution and that is used for the Lutathera infusion into the patient. 
Use a clamp or an infusion pump to regulate the flow of the sodium chloride solution via the 
short needle into the Lutathera vial. The sodium chloride solution entering the vial through the 
short needle will carry the Lutathera solution from the vial to the patient via the intravenous 
catheter connected to the long needle over a total duration of 30±10 minutes, at an infusion rate 
of up to 400 mL/h. The infusion should start at a lower rate of <100 mL/h for the first 5 to 
10 minutes and should then be increased depending on the patient’s venous status. Constant 
intra-vial pressure should be maintained during the entire infusion. 
During the infusion, ensure that the level of solution in the Lutathera vial remains constant by 
repeated direct visual control when transparent shielded container is used, or using a pair of 
tongs to handle the vial when the lead shipping container is used. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5.  Monitor the flow of Lutathera from the vial to the patient during the entire infusion. 
6. 
Disconnect the vial from the long needle line and clamp the sodium chloride solution line once 
the level of radioactivity is stable for at least five minutes. 
Follow the infusion with an intravenous flush of 25 mL of 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution 
through the intravenous catheter to the patient. 
7. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for the peristaltic pump method 
1. 
Insert a filtered 2.5 cm, 20 gauge needle (short venting needle) into the Lutathera vial. Ensure 
that the short needle does not touch the Lutathera solution in the vial and do not connect the 
short needle directly to the patient or to the peristaltic pump. 
Insert a second needle that is 9 cm, 18 gauge (long needle) into the Lutathera vial, ensuring that 
the long needle touches and is secured to the bottom of the Lutathera vial during the entire 
infusion. Connect the long needle and a 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution to a 3-way 
stopcock valve via appropriate tubing. 
Connect the output of the 3-way stopcock valve to tubing installed on the input side of the 
peristaltic pump following the pump manufacturer’s instructions. 
Prime the line by opening the 3-way stopcock valve and pumping the Lutathera solution 
through the tubing until it reaches the exit of the valve. 
Prime the intravenous catheter which will be connected to the patient by opening the 3-way 
stopcock valve to the 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution and pumping the 0.9% sterile 
sodium chloride solution until it exits the end of the catheter tubing. 
Connect the primed intravenous catheter to the patient and set the 3-way stopcock valve such 
that the Lutathera solution is in line with the peristaltic pump. 
Infuse an appropriate volume of Lutathera solution over a 30±10-minute period to deliver the 
desired radioactivity. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8.  When the desired Lutathera radioactivity has been delivered, stop the peristaltic pump, and then 
change the position of the 3-way stopcock valve so that the peristaltic pump is in line with the 
0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution. Restart the peristaltic pump and infuse an intravenous 
flush of 25 mL of 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution through the intravenous catheter to the 
patient. 
Instructions for the syringe pump method 
1.  Withdraw an appropriate volume of Lutathera solution to deliver the desired radioactivity by 
using a disposable syringe fitted with a syringe shield and a disposable sterile needle that is 
9 cm, 18 gauge (long needle). To aid the withdrawal of the solution, it is possible to use a 
filtered 2.5 cm, 20 gauge needle (short venting needle) to reduce the resistance from the 
pressurised vial. Ensure that the short needle does not touch the Lutathera solution in the vial. 
Fit the syringe into the shielded pump and include a 3-way stopcock valve between the syringe 
and an intravenous catheter that is pre-filled with 0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution and that 
is used for Lutathera administration to the patient. 
Infuse an appropriate volume of Lutathera solution over a 30±10-minute period to deliver the 
desired radioactivity. 
2. 
3. 
4.  When the desired Lutathera radioactivity has been delivered, stop the syringe pump and then 
change the position of the 3-way stopcock valve so as to flush the syringe with 25 mL of 0.9% 
sterile sodium chloride solution. Restart the syringe pump. 
After the flush of the syringe has been completed, perform an intravenous flush with 25 mL of 
0.9% sterile sodium chloride solution through the intravenous catheter to the patient. 
5. 
29 
 
 
Figure 5  Overview of methods of administration 
GRAVITY  METHOD 
NaCl 0.9% 
500mL 
CLAMP OR 
INFUSION 
PUMP 
LUTATHERA® vial must 
be 
LUTATHERA® vial with needle 
tip  touching  the  bottom 
SHORT  NEEDLE 
LONG  NEEDLE 
LUTATHERA®  VIAL 
NaCl 0.9% 
500mL 
VENT NEEDLE 
LONG  NEEDLE 
                                 3  WAY  STOPCOCK VALVE 
Long needle inserted 
in LUTATHERA® vial 
with needle tip 
touching the bottom 
PERISTALTIC 
PUMP 
LUTATHERA®  VIAL 
NaCI 0.9% 
FLUSH 
3 WAY 
STOPCOCK 
VALVE 
30 
SYRINGE  PUMP 
AMINO ACID 
SOLUTION 
CLAMP OR 
INFUSION 
PUMP 
AMINO ACID 
SOLUTION 
CLAMP OR 
INFUSION 
PUMP 
AMINO ACID 
SOLUTION 
CLAMP OR 
INFUSION 
PUMP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
31 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Ibérica, S.L.U. 
Polígono Industrial la Cuesta – Sector 3 
Parcelas 1 y 2 La Almunia de Doña Godina 
50100 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Advanced Accelerator Applications (Italy) S.r.l 
Via Ribes 5 
10010 
Colleretto Giacosa (TO) 
Italy 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Lutathera in each Member State the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed at increasing patients’ awareness on the risk of radiotoxicity by 
occupational exposure and inadvertent exposure to peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, and at 
providing information concerning the necessary precautions to take to limit unnecessary exposure to 
themselves and the people around them. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Lutathera is marketed, all patients/carers who 
are expected to be administered Lutathera have access to/are provided with a patient educational 
material containing: 
• 
• 
The package leaflet 
Patient guide 
The patient guide shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
Brief introduction to the treatment and the administration procedure 
Information on the precautions the patient should take before, during and after the 
administration procedure, at the hospital and at home, to limit unnecessary exposure to 
radiations of themselves and their entourage. 
Information that PPRT can cause serious side effects during or after treatment and that any side 
effect should be reported to the physician. 
• 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
LEAD SHIELDING CONTAINER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lutathera 370 MBq/mL solution for infusion 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One mL contains 370 MBq of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide at calibration time. 
Volumetric activity at calibration time: 370 MBq/mL - {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid, sodium acetate, gentisic acid, ascorbic acid, pentetic acid, sodium chloride, sodium 
hydroxide, water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for infusion 
Vial no.: {X} 
Volume: {Y} mL 
Activity at infusion time: {Z} MBq - {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Single-dose vial. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package to protect from ionising radiation (lead shielding). 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Advanced Accelerator Applications 
8-10 Rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 
92500 Rueil-Malmaison 
France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1226/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
39 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Lutathera 370 MBq/mL solution for infusion 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide 
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single-dose vial. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Vial no.: {X} 
Volume: {Y} mL 
Volumetric activity at calibration time: 370 MBq/mL - {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
Activity at infusion time: {Z} MBq - {DD/MM/YYYY hh:mm UTC} 
6. 
OTHER 
Manufacturer 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Ibérica, S.L.U. 
Polígono Industrial la Cuesta – Sector 3 
Parcelas 1 y 2 La Almunia de Doña Godina 
50100 Zaragoza 
Spain 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advanced Accelerator Applications (Italy) S.r.l 
Via Ribes 5 
10010 
Colleretto Giacosa (TO) 
Italy 
41 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lutathera 370 MBq/mL solution for infusion 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or other healthcare professional who will 
supervise the procedure. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Lutathera is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before Lutathera is used 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Lutathera is used 
Possible side effects 
How Lutathera is stored 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lutathera is and what it is used for 
What Lutathera is 
Lutathera contains lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide. This medicine is a radiopharmaceutical product for 
therapy only. 
What Lutathera is used for 
Lutathera is used for the treatment of adults with certain tumours (gastroenteropancreatic 
neuroendocrine tumours), which cannot be completely removed from your body by surgery, have 
spread in your body (metastatic) and do not respond any more to your current treatment. 
How Lutathera works 
The tumour needs to have somatostatin receptors on the surface of its cells in order for the medicine to 
be effective. Lutathera binds with these receptors and emits radioactivity directly into the tumour cells, 
causing their death. 
The use of Lutathera involves exposure to amounts of radioactivity. Your doctor and the nuclear 
medicine doctor have considered that the clinical benefit that you will obtain from the procedure with 
the radiopharmaceutical outweighs the risk due to radiation. 
2.  What you need to know before Lutathera is used 
Lutathera must not be used 
- 
if you are allergic to lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or if it has not been confirmed that you are not 
pregnant. 
if your kidneys are seriously impaired. 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before you are given Lutathera as it may cause: 
- 
secondary blood cancer (myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukaemia), which can occur in 
rare cases several years after completion of Lutathera treatment. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of these apply to you before or during treatment with Lutathera, tell your doctor or other 
healthcare professional: 
- 
if you have or have had weakness, tiredness, shortness of breath, poor concentration, infections, 
fever, bleeding or bruising more easily than normal or difficulty to stop bleeding (signs and 
symptoms of myelosuppression). 
if you have had any other type of cancer in the last 5 years, bone metastasis, or previous 
anti-cancer treatment (chemotherapy) or radiation therapy. 
if you have or have had swollen feet and ankles, too much urine or not enough urine, itching or 
trouble catching your breath (signs and symptoms of chronic kidney disease). 
if you have or have had itchy yellow skin, yellowing of the whites of your eyes, nausea or 
vomiting, tiredness, loss of appetite, pain in the upper right side of your stomach area 
(abdomen), dark or brown urine, or bleeding or bruising more easily than normal (signs and 
symptoms of liver disease). 
if you have breathlessness, weakness, numbness, chest pain, palpitations or abnormal heart 
rhythm (signs and symptoms of high potassium levels in blood, also known as hyperkalaemia). 
if you have breathlessness, difficulty breathing when lying down or swelling of the feet or legs 
(signs and symptoms of heart failure). 
if your kidney or urinary tract is not correctly developed. 
if you are suffering from urinary incontinence. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor or other healthcare professional right away if you experience any of the following 
after the start of Lutathera treatment: 
- 
- 
facial/throat swelling and/or difficulty breathing (signs and symptoms of angioedema). 
flushing, diarrhoea, difficulty breathing with wheezing or coughing, dizziness, light-headedness 
(signs and symptoms of neuroendocrine hormone crisis), which may appear within the first 
24 hours after Lutathera administration. 
if you feel tired, loss of appetite, feel changes in your heartbeat, have trouble thinking clearly 
(signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis). 
if you have muscle cramping, muscle weakness, confusion or shortness of breath (signs and 
symptoms of tumour lysis syndrome). Treatment with Lutathera (lutetium (177Lu) 
oxodotreotide) may cause tumour lysis syndrome, due to the rapid breakdown of tumour cells. 
This may result in abnormal blood test results, irregular heartbeat, kidney failure or seizures 
within a week of treatment. Your doctor will order blood tests to monitor you for this syndrome. 
- 
- 
Unless your doctor has considered that the clinical benefit of the treatment outweighs the possible 
risks, you will not be given this medicine: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have ever received external radiation therapy on more than 25% of your bone marrow. 
if your heart is seriously impaired. 
if you have seriously affected blood cell counts. 
if your liver is seriously impaired. 
if it appears that your tumour does not have sufficient somatostatin receptors. 
Before administration of Lutathera you should 
- 
drink plenty of water in order to urinate as often as possible during the first hours after the 
infusion. 
Children and adolescents 
The safety and efficacy of this medicine have not been established in children and adolescents under 
18 years of age. Talk to your doctor or nuclear medicine doctor if you are under 18 years old. 
Other medicines and Lutathera 
Tell your doctor or nuclear medicine doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines including medicines obtained without a prescription, since they may interfere with 
your treatment. This includes in particular somatostatin analogues or glucocorticoids (also called 
corticosteroids). If you are taking somatostatin analogues you might be asked to stop and/or adapt your 
treatment for a short period of time. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure whether your medicine is one of the medicines 
mentioned above. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or nuclear medicine doctor for advice before you are given this medicine. 
Lutathera is contraindicated in pregnant women as ionising radiation is dangerous for the unborn baby. 
Breast-feeding must be stopped during treatment with this medicine. If treatment with Lutathera 
during breast-feeding is necessary, the child must be weaned. 
You must inform your doctor and/or the nuclear medicine doctor before the administration of 
Lutathera if there is a possibility you might be pregnant or if you have missed your period or if you are 
breast-feeding. 
When in doubt, it is important to consult your nuclear medicine doctor or other healthcare professional 
who will supervise the procedure. 
Female patients should use effective birth control during Lutathera treatment and for 7 months after 
completing the treatment. 
Male patients should use effective birth control during treatment and for 4 months after completing the 
treatment. 
If you are a woman who could become pregnant, your doctor or other healthcare professional will 
check if you are pregnant and perform a pregnancy test, if necessary, before starting treatment with 
Lutathera. 
If you become pregnant or think you are pregnant after starting treatment with Lutathera, tell your 
doctor and/or nuclear medicine doctor right away. 
The radiation coming from the medicine may potentially decrease your fertility. A consultation with a 
genetic counsellor is recommended if you wish to have children after treatment. Preservation of sperm 
or eggs may be offered to you before the treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
It is considered unlikely that Lutathera will affect your ability to drive or to use machines. However, 
your general condition and the possible adverse reactions to treatment must be taken into account 
before driving or using machines. 
Lutathera contains sodium 
This medicine contains up to 81.1 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. 
This is equivalent to 4% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How Lutathera is used 
There are strict laws on the use, handling and disposal of radiopharmaceutical products. Lutathera will 
only be used in special controlled areas. This medicine will only be handled and given to you by 
people who are trained and qualified to use it safely. These persons will take special care for the safe 
use of this medicine and will keep you informed of their actions. 
How much Lutathera is given 
The recommended dose is 7 400 MBq (megabecquerel, the unit used to express radioactivity), which 
is given as a single infusion once approximately every 8 weeks for a total of 4 times. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration of Lutathera and conduct of the procedure 
Lutathera is administered directly into a vein. 
Due to the radiation emitted by this medicine, during the administration procedure, you should be 
isolated from other patients who are not receiving the same treatment. The doctor or other healthcare 
professional will inform you when you can leave the controlled area of the hospital. 
In addition to Lutathera, you will be given an infusion with amino acids in order to protect your 
kidneys. This might cause nausea and vomiting and you will therefore also receive an injection with 
an antiemetic before the start of the treatment that will help to reduce these symptoms. 
Duration of the administration procedure 
Your nuclear medicine doctor or other healthcare professional will inform you about the usual 
duration of the procedure. 
The infusion of Lutathera takes 30 ±10 minutes, but the complete administration procedure will take 
approximately 5 hours. Your doctor will regularly monitor your condition during the administration. 
Treatment monitoring 
Treatment with Lutathera can have an impact on blood cells, liver and kidneys (see section 4). Your 
doctor will therefore ask you to have regular blood tests in order to check whether it is appropriate for 
you to receive this treatment and during treatment to detect any side effects as early as possible. If 
necessary, the electrical activity of your heart will also be checked before you are discharged from the 
hospital (with a test called an electrocardiogram or ECG). Based on the results, your doctor may 
decide to delay, modify or stop your treatment with this medicine if necessary. 
After administration of Lutathera 
You will be asked to drink enough water (e.g. 1 glass of water every hour) to enable you to urinate as 
often as possible on the day of infusion and the day after, and to try to defecate every day, in order to 
eliminate the medicine from your body. 
Because this medicine is radioactive, you will have to follow the instructions described below to 
minimise radiation exposure to others unless otherwise instructed by your doctor. 
Based on current knowledge and experience in this field and on the properties of the medicine, it is 
estimated that the health risks to the people who live with you and the general public are low. 
Contact with other members of your household 
You should limit close contact (less than 1 metre) with people who live with you for 7 days after you 
receive Lutathera. You should sleep in a separate bedroom from other people for 7 days after you 
receive Lutathera. 
Contact with children and/or pregnant women 
After you receive Lutathera, it is strongly recommended that you limit close contact (less than 
1 metre) with children and/or pregnant women to less than 15 minutes per day for 7 days. You should 
sleep in a separate bedroom from children and/or pregnant women for 15 days after you receive 
Lutathera. 
Use of toilets 
It is strongly recommended to empty your bowels every day and use a laxative if necessary. 
Furthermore, drink frequently and try to urinate as often as possible on the day you receive treatment 
and on the day after. Follow the advice of your doctor or other healthcare professional on how much 
fluid to drink. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take special precautions to avoid contamination during the 7 days after treatment (these apply to all 
patients, regardless of gender): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
You must always sit when using the toilet. 
It is essential that you use toilet paper every time you use the toilet. 
Always wash your hands well after using the toilet. 
Flush all wipes and/or toilet paper down the toilet immediately after use. 
Flush any tissues or any other items that contain bodily waste, such as blood, urine and faeces 
down the toilet. Items that cannot be flushed down the toilet, such as sanitary pads and 
bandages, must be placed in separate plastic waste disposal plastic bags (according to “Waste 
disposal recommendations” below). 
Showering and laundry 
Take special precautions during the 7 days after treatment: 
- 
- 
Take a shower every day, 
Wash your underwear, pyjamas, sheets and any clothes that contain sweat, blood or urine 
separately from the laundry of other members of your household, using a standard washing 
cycle. You do not need to use bleach and do not need extra rinses. 
People with reduced mobility 
People who are confined to bed or have reduced mobility will preferably receive assistance from a 
care provider. It is recommended that when providing assistance in the bathroom, the care provider 
wears disposable gloves for the 7 days after administration. Any special medical equipment that could 
be contaminated by your bodily fluids (e.g. catheters, colostomy bags, bedpans, water nozzles) must 
be emptied immediately into the toilet and then cleaned. Carers who clean up vomit, blood, urine or 
faeces should wear plastic gloves, which should be disposed of in a separate plastic waste disposal bag 
(see “Waste disposal recommendations” below). 
Waste disposal recommendations 
All items to be thrown away should be discarded in a separate plastic waste disposal bag to be used 
only for this purpose. Keep the plastic waste disposal bags separate from other household waste and 
away from children and animals. 
A member of the hospital staff will tell you how and when to get rid of these waste disposal bags. You 
might be asked to bring the waste disposal bags back to your treatment facility, or, after 70 days, the 
waste disposal bags may be disposed of in the same way as other household waste. 
Hospitalisation and emergency care 
If for any reason you require emergency medical assistance or are unexpectedly admitted to the 
hospital during the 3 months after your treatment, you should inform the healthcare professionals 
about the nature, date and dose of your radioactive treatment. To facilitate this, carry your discharge 
letter with you at all times. 
Travel 
Keep your discharge letter with you whenever you are travelling for at least 3 months after treatment. 
Other precautions 
The doctor or other healthcare professional will inform you if you need to take any other special 
precautions after receiving this medicine. Contact your doctor or nuclear medicine doctor if you have 
any questions. 
If you have been given more Lutathera than you should 
An overdose is unlikely because you will only receive a single dose of Lutathera precisely controlled 
by the nuclear medicine doctor or other healthcare professional supervising the procedure. However, 
in the event of an overdose, you will receive the appropriate treatment. 
Should you have any further questions on the use of Lutathera, please ask the nuclear medicine doctor 
or other healthcare professional who supervises the procedure. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Lutathera side effects are mainly linked to radioactivity. 
The most common side effect seen in patients being treated with Lutathera is the impact on the bone 
marrow. This can lead to a decrease in the different types of blood cells, most importantly red blood 
cells (responsible for transporting oxygen from the lungs to the different organs), platelets (special 
cells which help the blood to clot), and other blood cells such as white blood cells (help to fight 
infection). This happens in many patients and is frequently temporary. However, in rare cases the 
decrease in blood cells may be long-standing and/or permanent. 
As a consequence, a decrease in the various blood cell types may put you at risk for bleeding, 
tiredness, shortness of breath, and infection. If this does occur to you, your doctor may decide to delay, 
modify or stop the treatment administration. 
Some side effects could be serious 
If you experience any serious side effects, tell your doctor right away. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
Bleeding or bruising more easily than normal or difficulty to stop bleeding (possible signs of 
low level of blood platelets) (thrombocytopenia) 
Infections with signs such as fever, sore throat or mouth ulcers (possible signs of low level of 
white blood cells) (lymphopenia) 
Tiredness, weakness, pale skin or shortness of breath (possible signs of low level of red blood 
cells) (anaemia) 
Tiredness, weakness, pale skin, shortness of breath, bleeding or bruising more easily than 
normal or difficulty to stop bleeding and infections with signs such as fever, chills, sore throat 
or mouth ulcers (possible signs of low level of blood cells) (pancytopenia) 
Common: may affect up to 1 in every 10 people 
• 
Bone marrow cancer resulting in poorly formed blood cells or ones that do not work properly, 
with signs and symptoms of anaemia, lymphopenia, neutropenia and/or thrombocytopenia 
(myelodysplastic syndrome) 
Infections with signs such as fever, sore throat or mouth ulcers(possible signs of low level of 
white blood cells) (leukopenia and neutropenia) 
•  Weight gain, tiredness, hair loss, muscle weakness, feeling cold (possible signs of underactive 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
thyroid gland) (secondary hypothyroidism) 
Thirst, low urine output, weight loss, dry flushed skin, irritability (possible signs of dehydration) 
Transient, self-limited loss of consciousness followed by spontaneous recovery (syncope) 
Irregular heartbeat (change in the electrical activity of the heart) (electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged) 
Dizziness, light-headedness (possible signs of low blood pressure) (hypotension) 
Passing urine less often than usual or passing much smaller amounts of urine than usual 
(possible signs of kidney problems) (renal failure and acute kidney injury) 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in every 100 people 
• 
Sore throat, runny nose, difficult or painful breathing and fever (possible signs of a respiratory 
tract infection) 
Cough, difficult or painful breathing, wheezing, pain in chest when breathing, fever (possible 
symptoms of lower respiratory tract infection) (pneumonia) 
Rash of small fluid-filled blisters, appearing on reddened skin, signs of viral infection that can 
be potentially severe (herpes zoster) 
Viral infection of the eyes (ophthalmic herpes zoster) 
Staphylococcal infections 
Presence of bacteria in the blood (streptococcal bacteraemia) 
Persistent tiredness, frequent or severe infections, easy bleeding, weight loss (possible 
symptoms of bone marrow cancer) (acute myeloid leukaemia, acute leukaemia and chronic 
myelomonocytic leukaemia) 
Bone marrow cancer resulting in poorly formed blood cells or ones that do not work properly, 
with signs and symptoms of anaemia (refractory cytopenia with unilineage dysplasia) 
Anaemia caused by kidney problems (nephrogenic anaemia) 
Bone pain or fractures, tiredness, increased infections, changes in urination frequency, 
confusion, thirst, nausea or vomiting, weight loss (possible symptoms of bone marrow failure) 
Bleeding and/or bruising underneath the skin (possible signs of low level of blood platelets) 
(thrombocytopenic purpura) 
Rash, itching, hives, breathlessness or difficult breathing, wheezing or coughing, 
light-headedness, dizziness, changes in levels of consciousness, hypotension, with or without 
mild generalised itching, skin reddening, facial/throat swelling, blue discoloration of the lips, 
tongue or skin (signs of severe allergic reaction) (hypersensitivity) 
Excessive thirst, high urine output, increased appetite with weight loss, tiredness (signs of high 
level of sugar in blood) (diabetes mellitus) 
Facial flushing, redness, and a sudden rush of warmth in the face that is sometimes confused 
with the hot flashes of menopause, diarrhoea, a fast heartbeat, wheezing, a sudden drop in blood 
pressure (possible signs of carcinoid crisis) 
Nausea, sweating, weakness, dizziness, trembling, headache (sign of low level of sugar in the 
blood) (hypoglycaemia) 
Rapid and shallow breathing, confusion, tiredness, headache, sleepiness, lack of appetite, 
jaundice, increased heart rate, possible signs of metabolic acidosis that occurs when the body 
produces excessive quantities of acid or when the kidneys are not removing enough acid from 
the body (metabolic acidosis) 
Seeing, feeling or hearing things that are not there (hallucination) 
Altered level of consciousness as a result of liver failure (possible signs of hepatic 
encephalopathy) 
Pressure on the spinal cord nerves which can be caused by a tumour or other lesion (spinal cord 
compression) 
Irregular heartbeat (atrial fibrillation) 
Sudden and crushing chest pain, tiredness, irregular heartbeat (possible symptoms of heart 
attack) (myocardial infarction) 
Crushing chest pain (possible symptoms of problem in the heart) (angina pectoris) 
Collapse caused by a heart problem, during which you may become breathless, pale, experience 
cold sweat and dry mouth (cardiogenic shock) 
Dizziness, fainting on standing up, fall in blood pressure upon standing (orthostatic 
hypotension) 
Swelling and reddening of a vein (sign of phlebitis) 
Chest pain, cough, hiccups, rapid breathing (signs of fluid collection between the layers of 
tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity) (pleural effusion) 
Swelling of the abdomen due to accumulation of fluid (ascites) 
Constipation, swollen abdomen, abdominal pain (intestinal obstruction) 
Diarrhoea, abdominal pain, fever (possible signs of inflammation of the colon) (colitis) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
49 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Vomiting, belching, abdominal pain upper and lower, with or without nausea and vomiting 
(possible signs of inflammation of the pancreas) (acute pancreatitis) 
Blood vomiting (haematemesis) 
Acute pain and swelling of the abdomen due to accumulation of fluid (haemorrhagic ascites) 
Abdominal pain, general feeling of being unwell (ileus) 
Decreased blood levels of pancreatic enzymes (pancreatic enzymes decreased) 
Yellow skin and eyes, nausea, loss of appetite, dark urine (signs of liver problems) 
(hepatocellular injury) 
Yellow eyes or skin (signs of liver problems) (cholestasis) 
Liver congestion (hepatic congestion) 
Liver failure (hepatic failure) 
Acute pre-renal failure 
Death 
Clavicle fracture 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from available data 
• 
Facial/throat swelling and/or difficulty breathing (signs and symptoms of angioedema) 
Other possible side effects 
Other side effects include the following listed below. If these side effects become severe, tell your 
doctor or other healthcare professional. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Loss of appetite 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Tiredness (fatigue) 
Common: may affect up to 1 in every 10 people 
• 
Excessive thirst, high urine output, increase appetite with weight loss (signs of high level of 
sugar in the blood) (hyperglycaemia) 
Sleep disturbance 
Dizziness 
Disturbed sense of taste (dysgeusia) 
Headache 
Feeling of having little energy, tiredness (lethargy) 
Headache, dizziness (sign of high blood pressure) (hypertension) 
Flushing and hot flushes 
Short of breath, laboured breathing (dyspnoea) 
Swelling, feeling of fullness in the abdomen 
Diarrhoea 
Stomach pain 
Constipation 
Upper stomach pain 
Indigestion, pain or an uncomfortable feeling in the upper middle part of your stomach 
(dyspepsia) 
Stomach pain, nausea (gastritis) 
Yellow skin and eyes, possible symptoms of high amounts of bile pigment (bilirubin) in the 
blood 
Hair loss (alopecia) 
Pain in muscles, bones or joints 
Muscle spasm 
Blood in urine 
Abnormal results of urine test (presence of serum proteins) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
50 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Skin reaction such as redness or swelling and pain at the site of injection 
Swollen hands, ankles or feet (oedema peripheral) 
Pain in the site of injection 
Chills 
Tiredness, chills, sore throat, joint or muscles aching (influenza-like illness) 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in every 100 people 
• 
Discharge from the eye with itching, redness and swelling (signs of conjunctivitis) 
• 
Painful and frequent urination (possible symptoms of bladder inflammation) (cystitis) 
• 
Flu symptoms such as tiredness, chills, sore throat, joint or muscles aching (influenza) 
•  Weight gain, tiredness, hair loss, muscle weakness, feeling cold (signs of underactive thyroid 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
gland) (hypothyroidism) 
Bone and joint pain, excessive urination, abdominal pain, weakness, tiredness (signs of 
overactive parathyroid gland) (hyperparathyroidism) 
Nausea, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, clouding of urine, tiredness and/or joint 
discomfort associated with abnormal laboratory values - high potassium, uric acid, and 
phosphorous levels and low calcium levels in the blood (signs of dying tumour cells) (tumour 
lysis syndrome) 
Excessive emotional distress, troubled (anxiety) 
Disorientation 
A sensation like insects crawling over the skin (formication) 
Sensation of pins and needles (pricking, burning, tingling or numbing sensation) (paraesthesia) 
A distorted sense of smell (parosmia) 
Drowsiness (somnolence) 
Eye problems 
Dizziness, with spinning sensation (vertigo) 
Rapid or irregular heartbeat (palpitations) 
Redness and/or facial flushing due to widening of blood vessels (vasodilation) 
Coldness of hands and feet 
Pale skin (pallor) 
Sore throat (oropharyngeal pain) 
Increased sputum 
Choking sensation 
Dry mouth 
Flatulence 
Gastrointestinal pain 
Mouth sores with gum inflammation (stomatitis) 
Bright red blood in the faeces (haematochezia) 
Belly discomfort (abdominal discomfort) 
Bleeding from the anus (rectal haemorrhage) 
Black faeces (melaena) 
Lower abdominal pain 
Rash 
Dry skin 
Swelling face 
Excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis) 
Generalised itching (pruritus generalised) 
Abnormal results of urine test (presence of leukocytes) 
Involuntary leakage of urine (urinary incontinence) 
Test result that indicates kidney problems (glomerular filtration rate decreased) 
Kidney problem 
Renal impairment 
Abnormal hardening, swelling or lump in the skin at the site of the injection (injection site 
mass) 
51 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tiredness, chest discomfort, pain, palpitations (possible signs of heart problems) (chest 
discomfort) 
Chest pain 
Fever (pyrexia) 
Generally feeling unwell (malaise) 
Pain 
Feeling abnormal 
Loss of weight 
Physical disability 
During Lutathera treatment, you may also have side effects of abnormal blood test results, 
which can give your doctor information on the functioning of some parts of your body 
Common: may affect up to 1 in every 10 people 
• 
High level of the following enzymes: 
o 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, blood 
alkaline phosphatase 
• 
• 
High level of blood creatinine 
Low levels of magnesium and sodium in the blood 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in every 100 people 
• 
High level of the following enzymes: 
o 
Creatine phosphokinase in the blood that may indicate muscle damage, such as of the 
heart 
Lactate dehydrogenase in the blood that gives information about the health of certain 
organs 
o 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Low levels of potassium, phosphate, calcium and albumin in the blood 
High levels of sodium, calcium, urea, glycosylated haemoglobin, catecholamines and c-reactive 
protein in the blood 
Low level of red blood cells (haematocrit decreased) 
Presence of protein in urine 
During Lutathera treatment, you may also have surgical/medical procedures 
Common 
• 
Blood transfusion 
Uncommon 
• 
To drain fluid from the peritoneal cavity, the space between the abdominal wall and organs 
(abdominal cavity drainage) 
To filter your blood to rid your body of harmful wastes, extra salt, and water (dialysis) 
To place a stent 
To drain abscess 
For gastrointestinal tube insertion 
To harvest (collect) stem cells from your bone marrow (bone marrow harvest) 
To remove polyps from the inside of the colon, also called the large intestine (polypectomy) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nuclear medicine doctor. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How Lutathera is stored 
You will not have to store this medicine. This medicine is stored under the responsibility of the 
specialist in appropriate premises. Storage of radiopharmaceuticals will be in accordance with national 
regulations on radioactive materials. 
The following information is intended for the specialist only: 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Lutathera must not be used after the expiry date and time which are stated on the label after 
EXP. 
Store below 25 ºC. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package to protect from ionising radiation (lead shielding). 
• 
• 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lutathera contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide. One mL of solution for infusion contains 
370 MBq lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide at the date and time of calibration. 
The other ingredients are: acetic acid, sodium acetate, gentisic acid, ascorbic acid, pentetic acid, 
sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide, water for injections (see section 2 “Lutathera contains 
sodium”). 
What Lutathera looks like and contents of the pack 
Lutathera is a clear, colourless to slightly yellow solution for infusion, supplied in a clear, colourless 
type I glass vial, closed with a bromobutyl rubber stopper and sealed with an aluminium seal. 
Each vial contains a volume that ranges from 20.5 to 25.0 mL of solution corresponding to an activity 
of 7 400 MBq at the date and time of infusion. 
The vial is enclosed within a lead container for protective shielding. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Advanced Accelerator Applications 
8-10 Rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 
92500 Rueil-Malmaison 
France 
Manufacturer 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Ibérica, S.L.U. 
Polígono Industrial la Cuesta – Sector 3 
Parcelas 1 y 2 La Almunia de Doña Godina 
50100 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Advanced Accelerator Applications (Italy) S.r.l 
Via Ribes 5 
10010 
Colleretto Giacosa (TO) 
Italy 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
M.G.P. spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420 602 303 094 
Danmark 
SAM Nordic 
Sverige 
Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
Deutschland 
Novartis Radiopharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 2730 
Eesti 
SAM Nordic 
Rootsi 
Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΟΚΟΣΜΟΣ ΑΕΒΕ 
Τηλ: +30 22920 63900 
Lietuva 
SAM Nordic 
Švedija 
Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
SAM Nordic 
Sverige 
Tlf: +46 8 720 58 22 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
España 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Ibérica, 
S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 97 6600 126 
Polska 
Advanced Accelerator Applications Polska Sp. z 
o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 275 56 47 
France 
Advanced Accelerator Applications 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 63 00 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
SAM Nordic 
Svíþjóð 
Sími: +46 8 720 58 22 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Advanced Accelerator Applications 
Francija 
Tel: +33 1 55 47 63 00 
Slovenská republika 
MGP, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421 254 654 841 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Advanced Accelerator Applications (Italy) S.r.l 
Tel: +39 0125 561211 
Κύπρος 
ΒΙΟΚΟΣΜΟΣ ΑΕΒΕ 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 22920 63900 
Latvija 
SAM Nordic 
Zviedrija 
Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Suomi/Finland 
SAM Nordic 
Ruotsi/Sverige 
Puh/Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
Sverige 
SAM Nordic 
Tel: +46 8 720 58 22 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
The complete SmPC of Lutathera is provided as a separate document in the product package, with the 
objective to provide healthcare professionals with other additional scientific and practical information 
about the administration and use of this radiopharmaceutical. 
Please refer to the SmPC. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
