EMA/524726/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004123 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lutathera 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Lutathera. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Lutathera. 
For practical information about using Lutathera, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Lutathera and what is it used for? 
Lutathera is a cancer medicine for treating tumours in the gut known as gastroenteropancreatic 
neuroendocrine tumours (GEP-NETs). It is a radiopharmaceutical (a medicine that emits a small 
amount of radioactivity). 
Lutathera is used is to treat GEP-NETs that cannot be removed by surgery, have spread to other parts 
of the body or are not responding to treatment. 
The medicine is only for GEP-NETs that have receptors called somatostatin receptors on their cell 
surfaces. 
Because the number of patients with GEP-NETs is low, they are considered ‘rare’, and Lutathera was 
designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 31 January 2008. 
Lutathera contains the active substance lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide. 
How is Lutathera used? 
Because Lutathera emits some radioactivity, it is only used in special controlled areas and must be 
handled and given to patients by qualified personnel. The patient cannot leave the controlled areas 
until told to do so by the doctor. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Before starting treatment, the doctor will have checked that the patient’s tumours have somatostatin 
receptors on their cell surfaces. Lutathera is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. The usual treatment 
involves 4 infusions 8 weeks apart, but the gap between infusions can be increased to up to 16 weeks 
if the patient gets severe side effects. The patient should also be given an infusion of an amino acid 
solution which helps protect their kidneys. 
For further information, including information on the precise method for giving the infusions, see the 
package leaflet. 
How does Lutathera work? 
The active substance in Lutathera, lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide, works by attaching to somatostatin 
receptors, which are found in high numbers in some GEP-NETs. The radioactivity it emits then kills the 
tumour cells it is attached to but has little effect on neighbouring cells.  
What benefits of Lutathera have been shown in studies? 
Lutathera can help slow down the worsening of GEP-NETs. In a main study of 229 patients with 
GEP-NETs that contained somatostatin receptors, patients given Lutathera lived for an average of 28 
months without their disease getting worse. This compares with around 9 months for patients treated 
with octreotide, a medicine already approved for treating the condition. 
What are the risks associated with Lutathera? 
The most common side effects seen with Lutathera treatment are nausea and vomiting, which occurred 
at the start of the infusions in around half of patients and may be related to the amino acid infusion. 
Other common side effects affecting more than 1 in 10 patients are thrombocytopenia (low platelet 
counts), lymphopenia (low levels of lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell), anaemia (low red cell 
counts), pancytopenia (low levels of all types of blood cells), tiredness and reduced appetite. For the 
full list of all side effects reported with Lutathera, see the package leaflet. 
Lutathera must not be given to women who are pregnant or in whom pregnancy has not been 
excluded. It must also not be given to patients with severely reduced kidney function. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lutathera approved? 
Only a minority of patients with GEP-NETs can be cured with surgery and at the time of diagnosis the 
tumours would have spread in most patients. Lutathera can help slow the worsening of the condition 
and its side effects are considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency considered that the benefits seen with Lutathera outweigh its risks 
and recommended it be approved in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lutathera? 
The company that markets Lutathera will put in place an educational programme for patients to ensure 
they understand the risk of radioactivity and precautions they should take to limit exposure to 
themselves and people around them. 
Lutathera  
EMA/524726/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lutathera have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Lutathera 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Lutathera on 26 September 2017. 
The full EPAR for Lutathera can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Lutathera, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Lutathera can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Lutathera  
EMA/524726/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
