EMA/188933/2011 
EMEA/H/C/000292 
EPAR summary for the public 
Luveris 
lutropin alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Luveris. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Luveris. 
What is Luveris? 
Luveris is a medicine that contains the active substance lutropin alfa. It is available as a powder and 
solvent that are made up into a solution for injection, and as a solution for injection in a pre-filled pen. 
What is Luveris used for? 
Luveris is a fertility treatment. It is used with follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) to stimulate the 
development of eggs in the ovaries of adult women who have severe deficiency (very low levels) of 
luteinising hormone (LH) and FSH. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Luveris used? 
Treatment with Luveris should be carried out by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of 
fertility problems. 
Luveris is given once a day together with FSH. The patient’s response to treatment is monitored to 
check how the egg development in the ovary is progressing. Doses of FSH are adjusted according to 
the response, and treatment may continue for up to five weeks. Luveris is given by injection under the 
skin. The patient may carry out the injection herself if she is well-motivated, has been adequately 
trained and has access to expert advice. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the powder and solvent are used, they should be mixed together just before use. The resulting 
solution can be mixed with FSH in the same syringe.  
How does Luveris work? 
The active substance in Luveris, lutropin alfa, is a copy of the natural hormone LH. In the body, LH 
causes the release of eggs (ovulation) during the menstrual cycle. FSH, which is used together with 
Luveris, also stimulates ovulation. 
Lutropin alfa is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by a cell 
that has received a gene (DNA), which makes it able to produce human LH. 
How has Luveris been studied? 
Luveris, given together with FSH, has been studied in one main study involving 38 women with severe 
LH and FSH deficiency. Because the number of patients with this condition is low, Luveris was not 
compared with any other medicines. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of women 
who produced functional follicles (eggs in the ovaries that are ready for release). 
What benefit has Luveris shown during the studies? 
In the main study, 67% of the women who received the approved dose of Luveris (75 International 
Units) together with FSH produced functional follicles (6 out of 9). Higher doses were no more effective 
than this dose. 
What is the risk associated with Luveris? 
The most common side effects with Luveris (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are reactions at 
the injection site (pain, redness, bruising or swelling), headache,, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, 
diarrhoea, abdominal pain and discomfort, pelvic (lower abdominal) pain, mild to moderate ovarian 
hyperstimulation syndrome, ovarian cyst (development of a fluid-filled cavity in the ovary) and breast 
pain. Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome occurs when the ovaries over respond to treatment, 
especially when medicines to trigger ovulation have been used, and can cause nausea, weight gain and 
diarrhoea. For the full list of all side effects reported with Luveris, see the package leaflet. 
Luveris should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to LH, FSH or any of the 
other ingredients. It must not be used in women who have tumours of the pituitary gland, 
hypothalamus (a region of the brain), breast, womb or ovary. It must also not be used when there is 
enlargement of the ovaries or cysts that are not related to polycystic ovarian disease and are of 
unknown origin, or unexplained bleeding from the vagina. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why has Luveris been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Luveris’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Luveris 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Luveris to Merck Serono Europe Limited on 29 November 2000. The marketing authorisation is valid for 
an unlimited period. 
Luveris  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Luveris can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Luveris, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2011. 
Luveris  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
