The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products 
London, 27 July 2000 
CPMP/1390/00 
CPMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
LUVERIS 
International Non-proprietary Name: lutropin alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/292/00/00 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.eudra.org     http://www.eudra.org/ emea.html 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRODUCT INFORMATION 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Luveris 75 IU 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Ares-Serono (Europe) Ltd. 
24, Gilbert Street 
London W1Y 1RJ 
United Kingdom 
Active substance: 
recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH) 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
lutropin alfa 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Gonadotrophins 
G03G 
Therapeutic indication: 
Luveris  in  association  with  a  follicle  stimulating 
hormone  (FSH)  preparation  is  recommended  for  the 
stimulation of follicular development in women with 
severe  LH  and  FSH  deficiency.    In  clinical  trials 
these patients were defined by an endogenous serum 
LH level <1.2 IU/L. 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
Strength: 
75 IU 
Route of administration: 
Subcutaneous use 
Packaging: 
Package sizes: 
Powder:     vials 
Solvent:     vials or ampoules 
1 vial of powder + 1 ampoule or vial of solvent 
3 vials of powder + 3 ampoules or vials of solvent 
10 vials of powder + 10 ampoules or vials of solvent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
I. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................... 4 
1. 
2. 
Submission of the dossier ............................................................................................... 4 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ................................................................ 4 
II. 
GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION ............................. 5 
1. 
2. 
Manufacturing Authorisation Holder.............................................................................. 5 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use ....................................................... 5 
III. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ....................................................................................................... 6 
1. 
2. 
3. 
5. 
Introduction .................................................................................................................... 6 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................................. 7 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects ..................................................................... 11 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment .......................................................... 19 
N.B.  The  abstract  and  the  SPC,  package  leaflet  and  labelling  texts  relating  to  the  CPMP 
opinion are available in all official languages of the European Union.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
Submission of the dossier 
The  company  Ares-Serono  (Europe)  Ltd.  submitted  on  01  June  1999  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) for Luveris 
75 IU, in accordance with the centralised procedure falling within the scope of Part A of the Annex to 
Council Regulation No (EEC) 2309/93 of 22 July 1993, as amended. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
2. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The procedure started on 25 June 1999 
The Rapporteur's first assessment report was circulated to all CPMP Members on 13 September 
1999. The Co-Rapporteur's first assessment report was circulated to all CPMP Members on 6 
September 1999. 
The  Rapporteur's  and  Co-Rapporteur’s  draft  list  of  question  was  circulated  to  all  CPMP 
Members on 13 October 1999. 
During  the  meeting  on  19-21  October  1999  the  CPMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  list  of 
questions  to  be  sent  to  the  company.  The  final  consolidated  list  of  questions  was  sent  to  the 
company on 21 October 1999. 
The company submitted the responses to the consolidated list of questions on 3 April 2000 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur circulated the response assessment report on the company’s 
responses to the list of questions to all CPMP Members on 18 May 2000. 
During the June 2000 plenary meeting the CPMP agreed on the list of outstanding issues to be 
sent to the company. 
The company submitted the responses regarding the outstanding issues on 28 June 2000. 
During the meeting on 25-27 July 2000 the CPMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Luveris 75 IU on 27 July 2000. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.  GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
1.  Manufacturing Authorisation Holder  
Manufacturer of the active substance 
Laboratoires Serono S.A. 
1170 Aubonne 
Switzerland 
Manufacturing Authorisation issued on 1 January 1999 by the Département de la Santé et de l’action 
sociale (Department of Interior and of Public Health), Canton de Vaud, Switzerland. 
Manufacturers of the finished product 
Luveris 75 IU (powder) 
Laboratoires Serono S.A. 
1170 Aubonne 
Switzerland 
Manufacturing  Authorisation  issued  on  1  January  1999  by  the  Département  de  la  Santé  et  de 
l’action sociale (Department of Interior and of Public Health), Canton de Vaud, Switzerland.  
Solvent (ampoules) 
Pharma Hameln GmbH 
31789 Hameln 
Germany 
Manufacturing  Authorisation  issued  on  26  March  1996  by  the  Bezirksregierung  Hannover 
(District Government of Hannover), Hannover, Germany. 
Solvent (vials) 
Gensia Sicor Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
Irvine CA 92618-1902 
U.S.A. 
Manufacturing Authorisation issued on 25 March 1998 by the Department of Health Services, 
Food and Drug Branch, State of California, USA 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Industria Farmaceutica Serono S.p.A. 
70123 Bari 
Italy 
Manufacturing Authorisation issued on 7 October 1999 by the Ministero della Sanità (Italian Ministry 
of Health), Rome, Italy. 
2. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Lutropin alfa, the active ingredient in Luveris, is a recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH) 
produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology  using  genetically  engineered  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary 
(CHO) cells. Luteinising hormone (LH) is a heterodimeric glycoprotein that is secreted by the anterior 
pituitary gland and, in conjunction with other reproductive hormones, is important in the regulation of 
follicular development and ovulation in women.  
Luveris in association with a follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) preparation is recommended for the 
stimulation of follicular development in women with severe LH and FSH deficiency as defined by an 
endogenous  serum  LH  level  <  1.2  IU/l,  i.e.  to  induce  ovulation  in  anovulatory  women  with 
hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  (HH)  (WHO  Group  I  anovulation).  In  LH  and  FSH  deficient 
women,  the  objective  of  Luveris  therapy  in  association  with  follitropin  alfa  is  to  develop  a  single 
mature  Graafian  follicle  from  which  the  oocyte  will  be  liberated  after  the  administration  of  human 
Chorionic Gonadotrophin (hCG). 
Current treatment of severe HH consists of urine derived human menopausal gonadotrophins (h-MG) 
since the patients need both FSH and LH. Follicular development can be achieved with FSH alone, but 
inadequate  follicular  oestradiol  production  may  lead  to  impaired  endometrial  growth  and  failure  to 
form  a  functional  corpus  luteum  when  exposed  to  hCG.  The  production  of  these  gonadotrophins 
extracted  from  urine  involves  the  collection  and  processing  of  large  amounts  of  urine  from  post-
menopausal  women.  Another  approved  treatment  consists  of  gonadotrophin  releasing  hormone 
(GnRH)  that  stimulates  endogenous  FSH  and  LH  secretion  when  administered  every  60  to  120 
minutes  over  a  week  via  a  portable  pump.  However,  such  treatment  requires  a  normal  pituitary 
function. 
Luveris  is  intended  for  daily  subcutaneous  administration  simultaneously  with  follitropin  alfa. 
Treatment should be tailored to the individual patient’s response as assessed by measuring (i) follicle 
size  by  ultrasound  and  (ii)  oestrogen  response.  A  recommended  regimen  commences  at  75  IU  of 
lutropin alfa (ie. one vial of Luveris) daily associated with 75-150 IU FSH.  
If an FSH dose increase is deemed appropriate, dose adaptation should preferably be performed at 7-
14-day interval and preferably by 37.5-75 IU increments. The treatment may be extended for up to 5 
weeks.  
When  an  optimal  response  is  obtained,  a  single  injection  of  5,000  IU  to  10,000  IU  hCG  should  be 
administered  24-48  hours  after  the  last  Luveris  and  FSH  injections.  The  patient  is  recommended  to 
have coitus on the day of, and on the day following, hCG administration. Alternatively, intrauterine 
insemination  (IUI)  may  be  performed.  Luteal  phase  support  may  be  considered  since  lack  of 
substances  with  luteotropic  activity  (LH/hCG)  after  ovulation  may  lead  to  premature  failure  of  the 
corpus luteum.  
If an excessive response is obtained, treatment should be stopped and hCG withheld. Treatment should 
recommence in the next cycle at a dose of FSH lower than that of the previous cycle. 
List of abbreviations 
AEs 
AUC 
B.P. 
CHO 
ELISA  
EPDB   
FBS 
FSH 
GMP 
GnRH   
HCG 
HH 
h-MG   
: adverse events 
: area under the curve 
: British Pharmacopoeia 
: chinese hamster ovary 
: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
: extended population doubling banks 
: foetal bovine serum 
: follicle stimulating hormone 
: Good Manufacturing Practice 
: gonadotrophin releasing hormone 
: chorionic gonadotrophin 
: hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism 
: human menopausal gonadotrophins 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IM 
IUI 
IV 
LH 
MCB 
OHSS   
p-hLH   
r-hFSH  
r-hLH   
RP-HPLC 
SC 
SDS-PAGE 
SE-HPLC 
TSH 
u-hLH   
USP 
WCB 
: intravenous, muscular 
: intrauterine insemination 
: intravenous 
: luteinising hormone 
: master cell bank 
: ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 
: pituitary human LH 
: recombininant human FSH 
: recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH) 
: reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography  
: subcutaneous 
: sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis 
: side exclusion high performance liquid chromatography 
: thyroid stimulating hormone 
: urinary human LH 
: United States Pharmacopoeia 
: working cell banks 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Luveris is a sterile and freeze-dried powder for solution for subcutaneous injection presented in glass 
vials with rubber stoppers. Luveris is available in one dosage strength: 75 IU per vial of lutropin alfa 
(equivalent to 3.4 micrograms). The powder is to be reconstituted with the accompanying solvent (1.0 
ml  water  for  injections)  presented  either  in  ampoule  or  in  vial.  The  finished  product  contains  the 
following  excipients:  sucrose,  disodium  phosphate  dihydrate,  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate 
monohydrate, polysorbate 20, sodium hydroxide and phosphoric acid, concentrated.  
Except  for  the  active  substance,  all  the  other  components  used  in  the  composition  of  the  medicinal 
product  as  well  as  the  solvent  comply  with  specific  European  Pharmacopoeia  (Ph.Eur.)  or  United 
States Pharmacopoeia (USP) monographs. Moreover, these excipients are known to be widely used in 
the pharmaceutical industry.  
Active substance 
The active substance is a recombinant human luteinising hormone (r-hLH, lutropin alfa). Lutropin alfa 
has been extensively characterised using traditional physico-chemical, biological and immunological 
techniques (e.g. terminal amino acid sequencing, peptide mapping, electrophoresis, chromatographic 
analysis,  bioassay,  etc.)  as  well  as  state-of-the-art  analytical  procedures  (e.g.  mass  spectrometry). 
Lutropin  alfa  is  a  heterodimeric  glycoprotein,  composed  of  two  non-covalently  linked  and  non-
identical  subunits,  designated  as  α  and  β). The  α-hLH  subunit,  common  to  all  the  gonadotrophin 
hormones (e.g. FSH), is 92 amino acid residues in length including two sites of N-linked glycosylation 
on Asn52 and Asn78. The β-hLH subunit, which is hormone specific, is 121 amino acid residues in 
length including one site of N-linked glycosylation on Asn30. The α-hLH and β-hLH subunits present 
five and six intrachain disulfide bridges, respectively. The molecular weights of the α-hLH and β-hLH 
subunits were determined by mass spectrometry as approximately 14kDa and 15kDa, respectively.  
Since it is a glycoprotein, lutropin alfa is a mixture of isoforms and the microheterogeneity was well 
documented.  The  primary  structure,  for  both  the  α−  and  β−subunits,  has  been  demonstrated  to 
correspond  to  that  of  the  native  peptides.  Lutropin  alfa  presents  N-  and  C-terminal  heterogeneity. 
Based  on  the  data  provided  by  the  company,  it  could  be  concluded  that  this  N-  and  C-terminal 
heterogeneity has no impact on the biological activity of the active substance.  
As  for  other  glycosylated  proteins,  the  structure  of  the  carbohydrate  chains  attached  to  the  peptide 
backbone is of major importance for the biological activity. Particular attention has thus been paid to 
the  post-translational  modifications  detected  in  r-hLH.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  N-
glycosylation sites,  expected  on each  subunit are  indeed  present.  In  addition,  glycan structures  have 
been  studied  using  mass  spectrometry  and  glycan  mapping.    Although  the  complexity  of  the  mass 
spectra  demonstrated  the  high  heterogeneity  of  the  active  substance  due  to  the  presence  of  these 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oligosaccharide  chains,  the  batch-to-batch  consistency  in  terms  of  glycoform  pattern  of  r-hLH  is 
satisfactorily documented. 
Overall the characterisation of the molecule has been well conducted and allows to conclude that r-
hLH  is  structurally  comparable  to  urinary-  and  pituitary-derived  hormone,  although  not  strictly 
identical, due to slight differences in post-translational modifications. 
Developement genetics and cell bank system 
The production process of lutropin alfa uses a transformed Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) host strain, 
which  has  been  comprehensively  described  in  the  application.  This  strain  was  prepared  by  co-
transfection into the genome of the parent CHO cell line of the two genes of interest coding for the α-
hLH  and  β-hLH  subunits.  After  transfection  and  selection,  one  subclone  was  chosen  for  further 
process  development  and was  used  to  establish  the  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB). The  methods  used  to 
establish the MCB have been well described and involved standard techniques widely used in DNA 
recombinant technology.  
The  preparation  as  well  as  maintenance  (location  and  storage  conditions)  of  the  Master  Cell  Bank 
(MCB) and Working Cell Banks (WCB) are described in detail in the documentation. Approximately 
the same protocol was applied for both the MCB and the WCB expansion process. Characterisation 
studies  (phenotypic  as  well  as  genotypic  testing)  of  the  various  cell  banks  were  carried  out  using 
classical tests. All vials tested from each cell bank were found to be free of microbial contamination 
(bacteria/fungi  and  mycoplasma).  In  addition,  viral  safety  has  been  well  documented  and  is  not  a 
matter of concern. Genetic stability has been demonstrated and the expression construct has also been 
validated at a generation number well beyond the intended production limit. 
Fermentation and purification 
The fermentation process, from the cell culture inoculum expansion to the final cell harvest, has been 
adequately described in the application. The equipment and dedicated facilities as well as cleaning in 
place  and  sterilisation  procedures  are  satisfactorily  documented.  The  composition  of  the  various 
culture  media  (including  the  origin  of  the  various  components)  as  well  as  the  way  to  prepare  the 
culture  media  used  in  the  fermentation  process  have  been  thoroughly  documented.  The  various 
relevant  parameters  recorded  during  each  phase  of  the  bioreactor  cell  culture  process  (temperature, 
pH, dissolved oxygen, overpressure, etc.) have been documented in detail. In-process controls assure 
appropriate cell growth and the absence of microbial contamination.  
The  downstream  purification  process  leading  to  the  r-hLH  bulk  has  been  described  in  detail.  Each 
harvest is clarified, concentrated,  dialysed  by  ultrafiltration, sterile filtered  and stored  before further 
processing.  The  purification  proceeds  with  subsequent  chromatographic  steps  followed  by 
ultrafiltration for the removal of viruses, concentration by ultrafiltration and final 0.22 µm filtration. A 
production batch of purified r-hLH bulk solution is defined as the material that has been processed as a 
single  entity  through  the  purification  process.  The  various  raw  materials  (including  resins  and  filter 
membranes)  as  well  as  the  composition  of  the  various  reagents,  solutions  and  buffers  used  in  the 
purification process for regeneration and sanitisation of purification columns and filters are listed in 
the documentation. The various in-process monitoring and control parameters are presented in detail 
for each purification step.  
The  production  process  of  the  active  substance,  which  complies  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practice 
(GMP)  requirements,  has  been  adequately  validated.  These  studies  are  documented  in  detail  in  the 
dossier. The various critical steps of the production process, from the cell culture to purification of r-
hLH have been identified.  
Based  on  the  results  obtained  regarding  the  upstream  (cell  culture)  as  well  as  the  downstream 
(purification)  processes,  the  capacity,  robustness  and  consistency  of  the  production  process  are 
satisfactory and lead to an active substance bulk with a reproducible good quality.  
Impurities 
As  regards  removal  of  impurities  during  the  purification  process,  detailed  investigations  have  been 
performed.  In  general,  satisfactory  in-process  control  results  were  reported.  Cell  culture  derived 
proteins  are  controlled  in  the  bulk  by  using  a  validated  ELISA.  In  addition,  the  absence  of 
contaminating  proteins  is  tested  using  an  electrophoretic  purity  test.  Potential  microbiological  and 
viral  contamination  is  considered  adequately  controlled.  Oxidised  forms  of  the  active  substance  are 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
controlled by chromatography. Aggregates and dissociated subunits of lutropin alfa are controlled by 
appropriate methods.  
Routine tests and specifications of active substance 
A total of five batches of r-hLH active substance, representative of the intended full-scale   production 
process, are provided in the documentation along with information on batch size, date of production, 
and use. The five batches are derived from three cell culture runs. 
The  current  analytical  methods  and  specifications  for  the  release  of  the  active  substance  ensure 
consistent  quality  of  the  recombinant  human  luteinising  hormone  with  respect  to  identity,  purity, 
potency,  and  safety.  The  tests  selected  to  be  performed  on  a  routine  basis  are  satisfactory;  their 
proposed  limits  are  also  considered  as  acceptable.  However,  considering  the  batch  analysis  results 
provided on five r-hLH active substance batches, the company committed to monitor future batches of 
active ingredient and to tighten some of the specifications if appropriate.  
The  various  methods  used  for  quality  control  of  lutropin  alfa  have  been  described,  justified,  and 
validated for  their  analytical  performances,  and  particularly  in  terms of accuracy,  precision,  limit  of 
quantification,  limit  of  detection,  specificity,  linearity/range  and  robustness.  The  proposed  routine 
quality control test methods and specifications were selected in order to assess, on a routine basis, the 
identified key features (biological activity, isoforms, glycosylation, aggregates, etc.) of the molecule.  
The  in  vivo  biological  activity  was  determined  using  an  appropriate  bioassay.  Data  on  in  vivo 
biological  activities  along  with  corresponding  specific  biological  activities,  provided  for  different 
batches,  show  a  good  consistency.  In  addition, 
immunological  characterisation,  based  on 
immunospecific  activity  determination,  further  demonstrate  inter-batch  consistency.  At  the  time  of 
submission,  no  International  Reference  Standard  had  been  established  for  r-hLH.  After  extensive 
characterisation  studies,  one  specific  batch  has  been  selected  as  in-house  reference  standard.  This 
approach  is  acceptable  as  an  interim  solution  until  an  international  r-hLH  reference  standard  is 
established as part of a post-approval commitment.  
Based on the physico-chemical and biological characterisation data provided, it can be concluded that 
sensitive and quantitative tests have been developed and validated for identity, purity, and potency of 
the active substance.  
Stability of active substance 
The  stability  of  the  r-hLH  active  substance  has  been  studied  on  four  batches  originating  from  the 
production  site  (Laboratoires  Serono  S.A.,  Aubonne,  Switzerland)  and  seven  smaller  scale  batches 
originating  from  the  development  site.  The  various  batches  have  been  stored  at  the  recommended 
storage  temperature.  Stability  testing  is  planned  to  continue  until  36  months.  In  light  of  the  good 
stability  profile  it  was  considered  acceptable  to  use  a  30-month  storage  period  at  the  recommended 
storage temperature for the active substance. The company committed to provide additional stability 
data at month 30 as soon as available.  
Other ingredients 
All  but  one  excipient  used  to  formulate  the  medicinal  product  are  described  in  a  European 
Pharmacopoeia  monograph  and  are  quality  controlled  accordingly.  The  exception  is  the  sodium 
dihydrogen  phosphate  monohydrate  which  meets  the  USP  requirements.  This  was  considered 
acceptable since only the dihydrate form is described in the European Pharmacopoeia. 
Packaging material 
Immediate packaging materials of the powder for injection (i.e. 3ml nominal capacity colourless Type 
I glass vial and grey W1816 bromobutyl lyophilisation stoppers) are described in the documentation. 
The solvent for reconstitution (sterile water for injections) is contained either in a 2ml, one point cut 
ampoule made of colourless ammonium sulphate-treated glass (Type I) conforming to Ph.Eur. ii) or in 
a 2ml vial of colourless glass (Type I) conforming to Ph.Eur. and closed using a teflon-coated rubber 
stopper. 
Studies  to  evaluate  the  compatibility  between  the  reconstituted  lutropin  alfa  solution  and  the 
container/closure  system  were  performed.  These  studies  showed  that  r-hLH  is  prone  to  adsorb  to 
surfaces and that adsorption is varying from batch to batch. For the production of Luveris, an overage 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is used to compensate for loss and to ensure that sufficient active substance is delivered to the patient. 
However, given that the submitted data did not allow to evaluate properly the size and variability of 
these  adsorption  phenomena  and  to  evaluate  the  impact  on  the  dose  delivered  to  the  patient,  the 
company  committed  to  further  investigate  adsorption  losses  as  part  of  their  post-authorisation 
commitments.  Considering  the  possible  concomitant  administration  of  r-hFSH  in  clinical  practice, 
adsorption phenomenon was also studied using a mixture of r-hLH and r-hFSH. 
Product development and finished product 
Various  formulations  have  been  tested  to  select  the  appropriate  buffering,  bulking,  stabilising,  anti-
aggregation  agents,  and  their  corresponding  concentrations.  The  choice  of  the  various  excipients  as 
well  as  the  dosage  strength  have  been  well  justified  for  the  powder.  The  composition  and  the 
pharmaceutical presentation are very classical for a recombinant protein intended to be administered 
by  subcutaneous  injection.  Process  development  studies  were  conducted  on  some  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process to evaluate the impact of these steps on the integrity of the active substance. 
Optimal process parameter ranges were established. 
Method of preparation 
Luveris is manufactured as vials of powder for injection. The manufacturing process, which complies 
with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described in sufficiently detail. It takes place in a 
dedicated facility at Laboratoires Serono S.A., Aubonne, Switzerland. Briefly the calculated amount of 
active substance in solution is mixed with the excipient solution to obtain the formulated bulk solution 
which is subsequently sterile filtered and filled in vials under aseptic conditions before freeze-drying, 
stoppering  and  capping.  The  manufacturing  process has  been  adequately  validated  and  is monitored 
using satisfactory in-process controls. 
The manufacturing process of the water for injections, provided in vials or ampoules, is classical and 
has  been  described  in  detail.  The manufacturing  process,  which  complies  with GMP,  takes  place  in 
dedicated facilities at Pharma Hameln, Germany (for the ampoules) and Gensia Sicor Pharmaceuticals 
Inc, USA (for the vials). 
For  the  validation  of  the  manufacturing  process,  results  on  three  batches  of  the  finished  product 
manufactured at the intended commercial scale have been provided. The data showed that the finished 
product consistently met the proposed specifications and demonstrated that the manufacturing process 
is consistently reproducible. 
Specifications of the finished product 
The  proposed  tests  and limits allow  to  check each batch  of  the  finished  product for  identity,  purity, 
safety,  and  potency.  All  test  methods  intended  to  be  used  for  routine  testing,  except  those  from  the 
European  Pharmacopoeia, have  been  validated for accuracy  and  reliability.  In  general, the proposed 
specifications  are  acceptable,  and  the  limits  are  reasonable  and  based  on  the  experience  already 
gained. 
Stability of the finished product 
Stability  of  the  finished  product  has  been  studied  for  three  batches  manufactured  at  the  intended 
industrial  commercial  scale.  The  stability  protocol  was  designed  to  provide  information  on  the 
stability of the finished product at the recommended storage temperature (i.e. +25°C) as well as under 
accelerated conditions. Based on these studies the shelf life of Luveris is 12 months at ≤25°C. After 
reconstitution, the product should be used as soon as practical.  
Viral safety 
No  adventitious  viruses  or  retroviruses  were  detected  in  all  the  tests  performed  and  therefore,  the 
tested  cell  lines  (MCB  or  WCB  or  EPDB-1)  exhibit  a  satisfactory  level  of  viral  safety.  It  can  be 
concluded  that  cell  banks  were  validated  in  accordance  with  the  CPMP/ICH  note  for  guidance  on 
quality of biotechnological products and can be used as safely as possible as cell substrate for r-hLH 
production. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  lutropin  alfa  requires  cell  culture  media  containing  Foetal  Bovine 
Serum (FBS), which is of bovine origin. FBS was derived from animals sourced in USA or Canada, 
which are BSE-free countries, and has been prepared in accordance with the “Note for Guidance on 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products” 
(CPMP/BWP/1230/98). Besides FBS, the manufacturing process of lutropin alfa involves the use of 
two  other  reagents  of  biological  origin.  Both  are  of  porcine  origin  and  their  manufacturing  process 
ensures that no viruses are introduced into the manufacturing process by these reagents. 
Overall,  the  viral  safety  of  lutropin  alfa  is  assured  by,  i)  the  satisfactory  viral  testing  of  cell  banks, 
biological  reagents,  and  unprocessed  bulk,  ii)  the  robustness  of  the  production  process  and  iii)  the 
satisfactory cumulative reduction factors achieved by the purification process. Despite the absence of 
a  specific  viral  inactivation  step,  it  can  be  stated  that  the  production  process  is  effective  to  clear 
potential viruses that could be present in the un-purified product.  
Discussion on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  the  requirements  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Production  and  Quality  Control  of  Medicinal 
Products  Derived  by  Recombinant  DNA  Technology  as  well  as  other  relevant  guidelines.  The 
information provided in the application demonstrated consistent production of lutropin alfa achieving 
a well-defined quality for the active substance and the finished product as well as for the solvent for 
reconstitution.  The  fermentation  and  purification  processes  of  the  active  substance  are  adequately 
controlled. Lutropin alfa has been well characterised using state-of the-art methods with regard to its 
physicochemical characteristics. As a glycoprotein, the active substance is a mixture of isoforms and 
the microheterogeneity has been well documented. The manufacturing process of the finished product, 
which complies with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), has been described in sufficient detail and 
product  specifications  are  adequate.  In  general,  methods  to  control  the  quality  of  the  product  are 
adequate. Moreover,  this  is  a  product  of  biological  origin  for  which all  the  virological  aspects  have 
been satisfactorily addressed. Stability data support a shelf-life of 12 months for the finished product.  
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Luveris is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  Viral 
safety  and  batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be  performed 
according to the agreed specifications  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro, standard competition binding analysis indicated that r-hLH and pituitary human LH bind with 
similar affinity to the specific LH/hCG receptor.  
Bioactivity  tests  measuring  seminal  vesicle  weight  gain  in  immature  male  rats  (Van  Hell  Bioassay) 
demonstrated that r-hLH was able to stimulate the steroidal secretion of cells bearing LH receptor. 
In vivo, the general pharmacodynamics of Luveris were studied in mice, rats and guinea-pigs. Studies 
were  designed  to  identify  the  effects  of  200,  2000  and  20000  IU/kg  r-hLH  doses.  These  studies 
evaluated  lutropin  alfa’s  effect  on  general  behaviour  and  activity,  on  the  central  and  autonomic 
nervous system, on the gastrointestinal system and on renal function. The effects of lutropin alfa on 
uterine motility were also determined in female rats. These studies revealed no adverse effects up to a 
dose of 20000 IU/kg. 
In  vivo,  the  activity  of  r-hLH  on  follicular  development  was  tested  in  adult  female  monkeys  pre-
treated with a GnRH antagonist prior to stimulation with r-hFSH alone, or with r-hFSH associated to 
r-hLH in a 1:1 ratio. No significant effect of r-hLH on follicular growth was observed but the regimen 
with r-FSH and r-hLH resulted in increased oestradiol concentrations compared to the regimen with 
FSH alone.  
The effects of r-hLH on oocyte maturation, luteinisation and progesterone production was tested in the 
same  non-human  primate  model  and  was  compared  to  pituitary  human  LH  (p-hLH)  and  to  human 
chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) respectively. Results reflected the anticipated effects on oocyte meiosis, 
ovarian luteinisation and progesterone production and were as follows:  
1)  serum progesterone was slightly higher after hCG than p-hLH or r-hLH;  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2)  circulating LH activity was raised for 36 to 48 hours after r-hLH and p-hLH but for more than 48 
hours after hCG;  
3)  effects of a single administration of r-hLH on oocyte maturation and follicular luteinization were 
less  significant  than  with  two  doses  which  were  more  comparable  to  those  of  p-hLH  but  less 
intense than with hCG;  
4)  regarding in vitro progesterone production of the granulosa cells, r-hLH was identical to pituitary 
human LH. hCG had a more powerful effect on progesterone production due probably to its longer 
half life. 
General  pharmacodynamic  tests  did  not  show  any  evidence  that  r-hLH  has  pharmacological  actions 
that may affect its safety on therapeutic use. Drug interactions studies and enzyme induction/inhibition 
studies  were  not  provided.  This  was  considered  acceptable  given  the  likelihood  that  r-hLH  behaves 
like hLH.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  studies  were  performed  in  rats 
after either intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous (SC) administration of a single dose of radiolabelled 125I-
lutropin  alfa.  Following  IV  administration  in  rats,  the  terminal  half-life  was  3  hours.  After  SC 
administration, the absolute bioavailability was 61% and the terminal half-life was 7 hours. There was 
no difference between pregnant and non-pregnant animals although Cmax (maximum concentration in 
plasma)  tended to  be higher  in pregnant  animals.  Radioactivity  was almost  completely recovered  in 
the excreta within one week, mostly in the urine (about 90% after SC injection), the rest in the faeces 
(less than 10 % after SC injection). Biliary excretion was very low. Results were similar after SC and 
IV injection. In lactating rats, radioactivity in milk was greater than or equal to that in plasma. Apart 
from  the  strong  uptake  of  the  radioactivity  from  the  thyroid,  some  uptake  has  been  observed  in 
kidneys, stomach and in the target organs such as ovaries. There was only a low transfer to foetuses 
and  to  the  placenta.  The  metabolic  pathway  of  r-hLH  was  not  clearly  investigated.  As  the 
pharmacokinetic profile of r-hLH was similar to that of p-hLH and urinary h-LH (u-hLH), it can be 
assumed that they follow the same metabolic pathway. 
Single dose studies 
Pharmacokinetics of r-hLH after administration of a single dose was also investigated in the monkey 
and was compared to that of pituitary LH and urinary LH. The serum concentrations of r-hLH were 
determined using an immuno-assay (MAIAclone). Linearity was demonstrated between doses ranging 
from  63  to  400  IU/kg  but  not  for  doses  between  10  to  63  IU/l  (this  may  be  due  to  the  limited 
sensitivity of the method used for determining serum levels of LH). 
Because of the occurrence of antibodies in three animals, results from an intramuscular/subcutaneous 
cross-over study have to be considered with caution. Half-lives after intravenous, intramuscular (IM) 
and subcutaneous administration were similar. The bioavailability was slightly higher for the IM route 
than for the SC route (0.6 versus 0.5). The half-life of r-hLH was comparable to that of pituitary and 
urinary hLH.  
Repeated dose studies 
Pharmacokinetic studies after administration of repeated doses were performed both in the rat and in 
the  monkey.  In the  rat,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile following  SC  administration  was  assessed  using 
radioactivity and immunoassay measurements of LH. The most valid information was provided by the 
immunoassay  data.  AUC  and  elimination  half-life  were  similar  to  those  obtained  after  single  dose 
administration  showing  that  no  accumulation  occurred  after  repeated  doses.  In  the  monkey, 
pharmacokinetic parameters were determined and compared following IV, IM and SC administrations. 
The  elimination  half-life  was  higher  after  SC  injection  and  similar  for  IV  and  IM  administration. 
Overall, pharmacokinetic assessment during repeated dose studies was hampered by the development 
of antibodies. 
Conclusion 
In  summary,  pharmacokinetic  and  metabolism  studies  have  been  performed  taking  the  human 
protein  nature  of  r-hLH  into  account  implying  antibody  formation  in  animals  after  multiple 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doses.  In  monkeys, absorption from the  SC injection was rapid and consistently amounted to 
about 50% after single and repeated daily injections. The elimination half-life was 11-14 hours. 
Accumulation  is  minimal.  The  clearance  was  around  0.03  l·h-1·kg-1  and  the  volume  of 
distribution at steady-state was around 0.1-0.3 l/kg.  Repeated administration of r-hLH to rats and 
monkeys  caused  well  known  pharmacological  and  morphological  effects  which  were  more 
exaggerated in the rat which differs greatly from humans with respect to the oestrous cycle and 
hormonal  metabolism.  Throughout  the  repeated  dose  investigations,  predictable  effects  on 
mammary glands, adrenals and thymus were observed. 
Toxicology 
All  the  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  compliance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practice.  r-hLH  was 
administered  intravenously  and  subcutaneously  as  the  product  is  intended  for  subcutaneous 
administration. A dose range up to a high multiple of the anticipated human dose range was used to 
assess  the  acute  toxicity  of  r-hLH  in  male  and  female  rats  and  monkeys.  The  clinical  intended 
therapeutic  schedule  is  a  single  daily  injection  for  up  to  5  weeks  followed  by  further  cycles  of 
treatment  in  case  of  failure  of  the  first  cycle.  Short-term  (two  and  four  weeks)  and  long-term  (3 
month)  repeated  dose  studies  were performed.  Three doses  or more,  ranging from  10  times  to  4000 
times  the  therapeutic  dose  of  1.25  IU/kg/day  were  tested.  A  specific  immunoassay  was  used  to 
measure the circulating levels of LH. 
Single dose toxicity 
Much higher doses of r-hLH than the anticipated clinical dose did not cause systemic toxicity in rats 
and  monkeys  when  given  as  a  single  IV  or  SC  injection.  It  is  important  to  note  that  although  SC 
injection is the intended clinical route, IV administration, which allowed complete bioavailability, did 
not result in toxicity. In addition, local tolerance was good. Observed changes in the rat testes were 
expected based on the pharmacological actions of LH.  
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated  IV  and  SC  administration  of  r-hLH  for  up  to  four  weeks  appeared  to  be  well  tolerated  in 
both male and female rats and monkeys at dose levels up to 5000 IU/kg dose. Increasing the duration 
of repeated SC administration in female animals of both species with dose of up to 1000 IU/kg was 
also well tolerated. Most of the pharmacological and morphological modifications (e.g. increase in the 
size and weight of seminal vesicles, atrophy of the thymus, and in rats only, increase in the size and 
weight of prostate, vacuolation of the adrenal cortex, increase in pituitary weight) observed could be 
explained by the pharmacological action of r-hLH. Given that the rat differs greatly from humans with 
respect to the oestrous cycle and hormonal metabolism, is it known that the observed effects are more 
exaggerated in rats than in humans. 
Repeated administration of high doses of LH to rats disrupts the cyclic control mechanisms resulting 
in morphological changes of the reproductive system including the development of follicle cysts, an 
increase  in  the  size  and  number  of  corpora  lutea,  uterine  mucosa  hyperplasia,  mucification  of  the 
vaginal mucosa and mammary gland hyperplasia. It should be noted that the repeated administration 
of lutropin alfa resulted in antibody formation in all species studied. The presence of antibodies was 
more  apparent for  the  SC route than  for the  IV  route.  Considering the  presence  of  antibodies in  the 
monkey  and  the  weak  hormonal  response  observed  in  the  studies,  results  must  be  interpreted  with 
caution.  In  particular no specific information  regarding  the  neutralising  potential  of  these  antibodies 
was provided. Therefore, the chronic toxicity may have been underestimated. 
Reproduction studies 
Adequate reproduction toxicity was investigated in rats and rabbits. No materno-toxicity was observed 
at the high doses. In the rat, a lower fertility index, an increase in pre- and post-implantation losses, 
reduced foetal  weight,  and  fewer live  born  pups  were  noted.  The  surviving  F1 (i.e.  first  generation) 
pups had reduced body, testes and ovaries weight. The dose of 5 IU/kg/day can be considered as safe. 
r-hLH can be considered as not teratogenic in the rat and in the rabbit. Therefore, lutropin alfa is not 
expected to teratogenic in humans. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
r-hLH did not appear to be genotoxic. In vitro studies in two bacterial species, which detect different 
types  of  point  mutations,  as  well  as  in  mammalian  cells  demonstrated  that  at  concentrations  up  to 
15,710 IU/ml  or  per  plate,  r-hLH  did  not  cause  point  mutations.  A  further  in  vitro  experiment  in 
human lymphocytes showed that r-hLH did not induce chromosome aberrations or polyploid cells. In 
vivo  studies  in  the  mouse  showed  that  at  dose  levels  up  to  200,000  IU/kg,  r-hLH  does  not  cause 
chromosomal fragmentation. Since the highest concentrations or doses of r-hLH used in these studies 
greatly exceeds the intended human dose by over thousands fold, these studies demonstrate that r-hLH 
is not a potential mutagen. 
Carcinogenic potential 
Carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  performed  with  r-hLH  as  negative  results  were  obtained  in 
extensive mutagenicity studies. As r-hLH is claimed to be identical to native human LH and intended 
for short term therapeutic administration in human, the absence of carcinogenicity studies is justified. 
In  addition,  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Conditions  Which  Require  Carcinogenicity 
(CPMP/140/95)  states  that  carcinogenicity  studies  are  not  generally  required  for  certain  types  of 
products including proteins produced by recombinant DNA technology. 
Local tolerance 
r-hLH  was  well  tolerated  at  the  injection  site  after  single  administration  by  IM  route.  Although  the 
local  tolerance  should  have  been  evaluated  after  a  SC  injection  since  lutropin  alfa  is  intended  for 
subcutaneous use, studies where the product had been administered subcutaneously did not question 
the good tolerance of the product. 
Immunogenic potential 
The  immunogenic  potential  was  tested  in  Guinea  pigs  and  showed  a  moderate  sensitisation  after 
intradermal  injection.  The  anaphylactic  response  was  also  tested  in  Guinea  pigs.  Some  high  dose 
animals  died  with  acute  systemic  anaphylaxis  after  IV  injection.  However,  this  test  is  generally 
positive  for  products  consisting  of  recombinant  human  proteins  and  is  not  predictive  for  the 
occurrence of such reactions in humans. In rats and mice, passive cutaneous anaphylaxis revealed a 
limited  ability  to  induce  allergic  reactions.  The  passive  hemagglutination  test  has  showed  a  weaker 
antigenicity in mice than in guinea-pig. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Since native hLH enters the environment daily via excretion by healthy women, and since r-hLH is 
intended for the treatment of a relatively small number of women with FSH and LH-deficiency, the 
introduction of a small amount of r-hLH into the environment does not pose an environmental risk. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
lutropin  alfa  to  induce  ovulation.  Results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  particular 
concerns for the safe use of lutropin alfa. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Lutropin  alfa  is  a  recombinant  human  luteinising  hormone,  a  glycoprotein  composed  of  non-
covalently bound α- and β-subunits. Luteinising hormone binds on the ovarian theca (and granulosa) 
cells and testicular Leydig cells, to a receptor shared with human chorionic gonadotrophin hormone 
(hCG).  This  LH/CG  transmembrane  receptor  is  a  member  of  the  super-family  of  G  protein-coupled 
receptors. In the ovaries, during the follicular phase, LH stimulates theca cells to secrete androgens, 
which  will  be  used  as  the  substrate  by  granulosa  cell  aromatase  enzyme  to  produce  oestradiol, 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
supporting  FSH-induced  follicular  development.  At  mid-cycle,  high  levels  of  LH  trigger  corpus 
luteum formation and ovulation. After ovulation, LH stimulates progesterone production in the corpus 
luteum by increasing the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone.  
In  the  stimulation  of  follicular  development  in  anovulatory  women  deficient  in  LH  and  FSH,  the 
primary effect resulting from administration of lutropin alfa is an increase in oestradiol secretion by 
the follicles, the growth of which is stimulated by FSH. 
Overview of Pharmacological Studies 
Study  
Type of Study 
Product(s) tested 
Doses & Route of administration 
GF 6135 
Open label, non-
randomised, dose-
escalating, 
comparative study 
Luveris 
(reference product: 
Pergonal (hMG)) 
Luveris: 75, 300, 10 000 an 40 000 IU 
IV  
Pergonal: 300 IU IV 
(Single dose once per week 
Up to 10 weeks) 
GF 6136 
Open, random-order, 
cross-over study 
Luveris 
GF 6137 
Open, random-order, 
cross-over study 
Luveris in association 
with Gonal-F 150 IU 
(follitropin alfa) 
10 000 IU 
IV, IM, SC route 
(Single dose 
Up to 8 weeks) 
 150 IU 
SC route 
(Single and repeated doses 
Up to 9 weeks) 
Total 
number 
of 
subjects 
12 
12 
12 
Pharmacodynamics 
A quantitative evaluation of pharmacodynamic effects of lutropin alfa in humans was not specifically 
performed. Some data were obtained from study GF 6137 after 7 days of combined r-hLH and r-hFSH 
treatment (150 IU of each hormone daily). The effects on oestradiol, progesterone, and inhibin levels 
and follicular development were investigated. The expected effects of FSH were not affected by co-
administration  of  LH.  Treatment  with  a  GnRH  analogue  was  used  to  achieve  suppression  of 
endogenous  LH,  which  was  necessary  to  assess  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  lutropin  alfa  in 
women.  However,  a  complete  suppression  was  difficult  to  achieve  and  residual  LH  remained  at 
detectable levels. The limited pharmacodynamic data are acceptable since: 
-  
modifications  between  the  naturally  occurring  human  pituitary  LH  and  lutropin  alfa  are 
relatively minor, 
the pre-clinical assessment of lutropin alfa has confirmed the receptor binding affinity and the 
intrinsic bioactivity of r-hLH, 
patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (HH) who were included in the clinical study 
can be considered as the best human model to assess the activity of the LH preparation (Luveris 
is intended for treatment of this restricted patients population only). 
- 
- 
Luveris was well tolerated in all Phase I studies: no serious adverse events or significant changes in 
vital signs or in laboratory tests results were noted in any subject throughout these studies. Non serious 
events were time-dependent hot flushes attributable to the low oestradiol serum levels induced by the 
GnRH-agonist treatment. These were all of mild to moderate severity. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  were  not  evaluated  in  women  with  hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  but  three 
studies have been conducted in healthy women (18-35 years) in whom endogenous LH secretion had 
been down-regulated by administering a GnRH analogue. These studies examined pharmacokinetics 
and  safety  of  r-hLH.  r-hLH  and  endogenous  LH  concentrations  in  serum  and  urine  were  measured 
using  an  immunoradiometric  assay  specific  with  respect  to  the  other  glycoprotein  hormones  (cross-
reactivity with human FSH, TSH, and GH was less than 0.25%; cross-reactivity with hCG was about 
3%).  The  pharmacokinetics  were  confirmed  using  a  less precise (and  possibly  less specific) in  vitro 
bioassay measuring the production of progesterone by a cell line responsive to LH stimulation (MA-
10 Leydig tumor cells). 
The  lack  of  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  the  relevant  target  population  (i.e.  women  with 
hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism) was a particular concern since a dose-linear relationship was not 
demonstrated with doses below 300 IU in healthy gonadotrophin-suppressed women probably because 
of  residual  endogenous  LH-secretion.  With  the  currently  available  procedures  for  analysing  serum 
concentrations of LH (and r-hLH), injection of the lowest doses that will elicit a physiological “LH” 
effect (about 75 IU) will result in serum concentrations of LH very close to the detection limit of the 
assay.  Therefore,  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  precise  pharmacokinetic  information  in  the  physiological 
dose-range.  Taking  into  account  the  sensitivity  of  the  available  immunoassay  the  lack  of 
pharmacokinetic  studies 
in  women  with  hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  was  considered 
acceptable. 
IV administration 
Following intravenous administration of Luveris, lutropin alfa was rapidly distributed with an initial 
half-life of approximately one hour and eliminated from the body with a terminal half-life of about 10 
hours.  The  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  was  around  8  liters.  Lutropin  alfa  showed  linear 
pharmacokinetics overdoses ranging from 300 to 40 000 IU. Total clearance is around 2 l/h, and less 
than 5% of the dose was excreted in the urine. The mean residence time was approximately 5 hours. 
The analysis for a dose of 75 IU was difficult and probably unreliable due to presence of endogenous 
LH  because  the  down-regulation  did  not  completely  inhibit  LH  secretion  from  the  pituitary.  The 
absence  of  information  in  this  dose  range  (<  300  IU)  cannot  substantiate  the  intended  therapeutic 
regimen  and  the  dose  adjustment  recommendations.  In  spite  of  a  statistical  difference  between  the 
values obtained for the Area Under the Curve (AUC), the serum pharmacokinetic profile of r-hLH was 
comparable to that of urinary hLH (u-hLH) except that the renal clearance of u-hLH was greater than 
that of r-hLH. 
IM and SC administration 
Following IM and SC administration, the pharmacokinetic profile was determined only after a single 
dose. Immunoassay data did not show any statistical difference in the pharmacokinetic profile for the 
IM  and  SC  routes  of  administration.  Considering  the  longer  terminal  half-life  after  IM  and  SC 
administration (about 18 hours), elimination of r-hLH by the extra-vascular route is rate-limited by the 
absorption at the site of injection. The absolute bioavailability of r-hLH after IM or SC administration 
was approximately 55%. 
Interaction studies 
As  r-hLH  is  intended  to  be  co-administered  with  FSH,  interaction  of  Luveris  with  an  r-hFSH 
preparation  was  investigated.  There  was  no  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  follitropin  alfa  when 
administered  simultaneously.  The  bioavailability  of  r-hLH  (150  IU)  remained  unchanged  when  co-
administered  with  r-hFSH  (150  IU).  After  multiple  dosing  there  was  a  slight  accumulation  of  LH 
(about  1.5-fold)  whereas  FSH  accumulated  by about threefold.  However,  because  of  the  incomplete 
suppression of endogenous LH, these results may not be reliable. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
Tabular overview of Clinical studies 
Study 
Study Design 
GF 6253 
Open, randomised, 
dose-finding, 
pivotal,  
multicenter 
Product(s) 
tested 
Luveris 
GF 6905 
Open, randomised, 
dose-finding, 
multicenter 
Luveris 
Dosage 
Duration of treatment  Total 
Number of 
subjects 
N=38 
1) for up to 21 
days/cycle 
2) for up to 3 cycles 
1) for up to 21 
days/cycle 
2) for up to 3 cycles 
N=40 
0, 25, 75, or 225 
IU/day SC daily in 
association with 
follitropin alfa 
(Gonal-F 150 IU) 
0, 25, 75 or 225 
IU/day SC daily in 
association with 
follitropin alfa 
(Gonal-F 150 IU) 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Two open randomised dose-finding studies were conducted, one in Europe (GF 6253) and one in the 
USA (GF 6905). These trials did not include an active comparator (hMG or pulsative GnRH) because 
of the very small target population. The design of the two studies was similar as regards dosing and 
efficacy  endpoints.  However,  the  criteria  for  HH  were  stricter  and  more  relevant  in  the  European 
study, which only included women with a baseline serum LH below 1.2 IU/l. The US study accepted a 
level <10.8 IU/l, although it is acknowledged that women with less severe LH-deficiency respond to 
FSH  treatment  alone.  The  primary  endpoints  were  objective,  i.e.  measurement  of  follicle  size  by 
ultrasound  examination  and  measurement  of  oestradiol  and  progesterone  concentrations  in  plasma. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  development  of  a  “functional”  follicle.  Three  criteria  had  to  be 
fulfilled:  
1.  at  least  one  follicle  with  a  mean  diameter  ≥17 mm.  2.  preovulatory  E2  serum  level  above  400 
pmol/l.  3.  mid-luteal  phase  P4  level  above  or  equal  to  25 nmol/l.  Against  this  background  the  non-
blinded design seems acceptable. Secondary efficacy endpoints included oestradiol level per follicle at 
mid-cycle,  number  of  follicles  at  mid-cycle,  endometrial  thickness  at  mid-cycle  and  pregnancy  (for 
those wishing to conceive). 
The European study was considered to be the pivotal study. This study included 38 patients, of which 
34  could  be  evaluated  and  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis.  The  US  study  included  43  patients  of 
which 40 could be evaluated. 
The patients were randomised into four groups receiving either 0, 25, 75 or 225 IU of r-hLH together 
with  a  fixed  dose  of  150  IU  of  r-hFSH  daily.  The  specific  dose  of  LH  was  given  in  the  first  cycle 
called A. This cycle was used for the efficacy analysis. Some patients were treated in additional cycles 
called B and C. In these cycles the dose of LH was increased if there was no response to the LH dose 
given in the prior treatment cycle and decreased if there had been a response in the prior cycle.  
The table below summarises the results of the dose finding studies. The number of patients fulfilling 
the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  based  on  all  three  criteria  and  including  patients  who  did  not  receive 
hCG due to excessive follicular development (risk of OHSS, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome) as a 
treatment success are given. For study GF 6905, which used less stringent criteria for HH, the results 
of the subgroup with pre-treatment LH below 1.2 IU/l are presented separately. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of clinical trials expressed as the percentage of patients fulfilling  
the primary efficacy endpoint 
Study 
GF6253 
European pivotal 
n=34 
Patients 
r-hLH Treatment: 
225 IU/day 
75 IU/day 
25 IU/day 
0 IU/day 
P value* 
* Cochran-Armitage Trend test 
8/10 (80%) 
6/9 (67%) 
1/7 (14%) 
0/8 (0 %) 
0.0001 
GF6905 
US 
n=40 
6/9 (67%) 
8/11 (73%) 
9/9 (100%) 
7/11 (64%) 
0.774 
GF6905 
LH <1.2 IU/l Subset 
n=15 
3/4 (75%) 
2/3 (67%) 
5/5 (100%) 
0/3 (0%) 
0.039 
Based on these results a starting dose of 75 IU/day of r-hLH has been recommended. The company 
had  originally  claimed  that  in  some  patients  optimal  follicular  development  may  require  up  to  10 
micrograms (225 IU/day) lutropin alfa. However, from the clinical trials, there was no evidence that 
225  IU/day  is  more  effective.  An  increase  of  dose  in  case  of  treatment  failure  did  not  appear  to 
increase the success rate. As a result, 75 IU/day lutropin alfa is the only recommended dose. 
Results  obtained  for  the  control  group (patients  treated  with 0  IU/day lutropin  alfa)  revealed  that in 
patients fulfilling very strict criteria of HH, it is necessary to administer r-hLH together with r-hFSH  
in  order 
in 
to  obtain  follicle  maturation.  Efficacy  of  LH  substitution  by 
hypogonadotrophic patients with baseline LH levels higher than 1.2 IU/l has not been shown. 
When  women  with  HH  undergo  treatment  with  LH  and  FSH  it  is  generally  with  the  purpose  of 
becoming  pregnant.  However,  it  is  accepted  that  the  combined  surrogate  endpoint  is  relevant  and 
adequate proof of efficacy in women with HH. However, the clinical pregnancy rate obtained with r-
hLH  at  75  IU  daily  dose,  can  be  considered  similar  to  those  published  in  the  literature  in  this 
indication either with hMG or with a pulsatile GnRH administration. 
lutropin  alfa 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
All  patients  (n=78)  were  included  in  the  safety  analysis,  reporting  the  incidence  and  severity  of 
adverse  events  (AEs)  including  local  tolerance  at  the  injection  site,  and  representing  a  total  of  83 
cycles. In addition, occurrence of potential antibodies to both r-hLH and r-hFSH was assessed. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Among  the  133  adverse  events  that  occurred  in  42  patients,  the  most  commonly  reported  adverse 
events  were  pelvic  or  abdominal  pain,  headache,  breast  pain,  nausea,  ovarian  cysts,  and 
dysmenorrhoea.  Somnolence  has  also  been  reported.  Such  symptoms  and  signs  are  commonly 
reported  in  women  who  receive  gonadotrophins  to  stimulate  ovulation.  In  study  GF6253,  three 
patients  had  abdominal  symptoms  suggestive  of  OHSS  (ovarian  hyperstimulation  syndrome). 
However, the company has confirmed that there were no cases of actual OHSS in this clinical trial. In 
both  protocols  hCG  administration  was  withhold  when  assessment  of  estrogen  levels  and  a 
multifollicular response indicated a significant risk of OHSS. This occurred in 5 out of 38 patients in 
study GF 6253 and in 5 out of 40 patients in study GF 6905. 
Local  tolerance  was  acceptable  based  on  985  injections.  Moderate  reaction  at  the  injection  site  was 
recorded in 0.9% of injections. Severe swelling and bruising were reported in one patient in the 75 IU 
r-hLH group in study GF 6905. 
The  possible  immunogenicity  of  the  recombinant  gonadotrophins  was  investigated  by  detection  of 
antibodies in samples collected before, during and after treatment. In GF 6253 study: negative results 
for antibodies directed against LH and FSH were obtained for all 34 patients treated with one cycle as 
well  as  for  9  patients  who  have  started  a  second  cycle  of  treatment  and  for  5  patients  who  have 
received a third cycle. In study GF6905, 37 out of 40 serum samples were negative for antibodies to 
both FSH and LH. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Standard  serum  biochemistry  tests  during  and  after  therapy  did  not  show  any  clinically  significant 
changes from baseline. 
Safety in born children 
Data  on  children  born  as  a  result  of  the  treatment  given  in  protocols  GF  6253  (study  period  1993-
1995) and GF 6905 (study period 1994-1997) have not been presented but the company confirmed that 
adverse events in these children had not been reported. The company committed to follow and report 
on the development of the children born following stimulation with Luveris. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
Dose regimen 
The company had originally claimed that in some patients, optimal follicular development may require 
up to 225 IU/day lutropin alfa. However, this claim was not supported by clinical data and 75 IU/day 
lutropin alfa is the only recommended dose. Efficacy of Luveris was assessed in combination with 
a  fixed  dose  of  150  IU  of  a  FSH  preparation.  Depending  on  the  response  the  FSH  dose  may  need 
adaptation.  The  dose  of  FSH  may  be  increased  by  preferably  37.5-75  IU  at  7-14-day  interval  and 
treatment may be extended for up to 5 weeks. 
Clinical efficacy 
Hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism  is  a  very  rare  condition,  which  explains  the  limited  number  of 
patients  included  in  the  clinical  trials  and  the  lack  of  comparative  clinical  trials.  The  lack  of  active 
comparator-controlled  studies  has  been  considered  as  acceptable  as  such  studies  would  require  an 
unrealistically high number of patients, based on the incidence estimated for this pathology. Moreover, 
it would involve a comparison of the effect(s) of the FSH components of r-hFSH and hMG in addition 
to an evaluation of the effect(s) of r-hLH. Even though a head to head comparison of r-hFSH/r-hLH 
versus  hMG  would  be optimal,  it  is considered  virtually impossible  to  conduct. Based  on incidence 
estimates it is expected that about 1000 patients per year in the EU would need treatment for this type 
of female infertility.  
The most important issue was the question of target population for treatment with r-hLH . The clinical 
data  provided  did  not  support  the  originally  claimed  indication  for  Luveris  in  the  treatment  of  all 
patients with LH and FSH deficiency. Therefore, the use of Luveris is restricted to patients with severe 
LH and FSH deficiency, i.e. with baseline serum LH level below 1.2 IU/l. However, when assessing 
the  endogenous  serum  level  of  LH,  inter-laboratory  variation  in  LH  measurements  should  be  taken 
into account. 
Conclusion on safety 
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  r-hLH  is  very  safe.  The  adverse  events  reported  revealed  no 
unexpected  or  serious  adverse  events  attributable  to  r-hLH.  The  period  of  r-hLH  treatment  in  the 
clinical trials reflects the period of treatment for the proposed indication. The number of patients who 
have received r-hLH is relatively small, and thus the safety database is not as large as is often the case 
for new medicinal products. However, on the basis of knowledge accumulated for urine derived LH 
and since the structure of r-hLH is very similar to the LH produced naturally in humans, lutropin alfa 
is not likely to cause unexpected adverse events. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Luveris is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  Viral 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety and batch to batch consistency has been documented and the relevant tests will be performed 
according to the agreed specifications (specifications are attached). 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of 
lutropin  alfa  to  induce  ovulation.  Results  from  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  particular 
concerns for the safe use of lutropin alfa. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  results  from  clinical  studies  support  the  use  of  lutropin  alfa  in  association  with  a  follicle 
stimulating hormone (FSH) preparation to stimulate follicular development in women with severe LH 
and  FSH  deficiency  as  defined  by  an  endogenous  LH  level  <  1.2  IU/l,  i.e.  to  induce  ovulation  in 
anovulatory women with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  lutropin  alfa  is  safe.  The  adverse  events  reported  revealed  no 
unexpected or serious adverse events attributable to lutropin alfa. The period of lutropin alfa treatment 
in the clinical trials reflects the period of treatment for the proposed indication. The number of patients 
who have received lutropin alfa is relatively small, and thus the safety database is not as large as is 
often the case for new medicinal products. However, on the basis of knowledge accumulated for urine 
derived  LH  and  since  the  structure  of  lutropin  alfa  is  very  similar  to  the  LH  produced  naturally  in 
humans, lutropin alfa is not likely to cause unexpected adverse events.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit 
Clinical  studies  have  demonstrated  the  efficacy  of  lutropin  alfa  in  association  with  a  follicle 
stimulating  hormone  (FSH)  preparation in stimulating  follicular  development in  women  with  severe 
LH and FSH deficiency (women with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism). Current treatment of severe 
HH consists of urine derived human menopausal gonadotrophins (h-MG) since the patients need both 
FSH  and  LH.  Follicular  development  can  be  achieved  with  FSH  alone,  but  inadequate  follicular 
oestradiol production may lead to impaired endometrial growth and failure to form a functional corpus 
luteum  when  exposed  to  hCG.  Current  preparations  of  hMG  contain  FSH  and  LH  in  combination. 
With  Luveris,  luteinising  hormone  becomes  available  separately  from  FSH  which  allows  to 
individualise dosing of the two gonadotrophins. 
Another approved treatment for severe HH consists of gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) that 
stimulates endogenous FSH and LH secretion when administered every 60 to 120 minutes over a week 
via  a  portable  pump.  However,  such  treatment  requires  a  normal  pituitary  function.  Lutropin  alfa 
together with FSH can be used in women with a deficient pituitary function. 
Risk 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of Luveris is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Viral safety has been documented.  
The  safety  data  demonstrates  that  lutropin  alfa  is  safe.  The  adverse  events  reported  revealed  no 
unexpected or serious adverse events attributable to lutropin alfa. Although the safety database is at 
current  not  large,  on  the  basis  of  knowledge  accumulated  for  urine  derived  LH,  lutropin  alfa  is  not 
likely to cause unexpected adverse events.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Luveris was favourable when lutropin alfa is used in association with a 
follicle  stimulating  hormone  (FSH)  preparation  to  stimulate  follicular  development  in  women  with 
severe LH and FSH deficiency as defined by an endogenous LH level < 1.2 IU/l. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  recommends  the  granting  of  a  marketing 
authorisation for  Luveris, subject  to  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological,  as  well  as  clinical 
follow-up measures undertaken by the company. 
The approved Summary of Product Characteristics, Patient Leaflet and Labelling are annexed to the 
CPMP Opinion. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
