23 February 2023 
EMA/152946/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): voretigene neparvovec 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010742/202207 
Period covered by the PSUR: 24 July 2021 to 23 July 2022 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for voretigene neparvovec, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
To reflect the new development of cases with chorioretinal atrophy reporting visual impairment, the MAH 
proposed to amend the SmPC, section 4.8, to inform that isolated cases reporting visual impairment due 
to chorioretinal atrophy have been observed. Additionally, from the PRAC’s point of view the amendment 
should also include the information that chorioretinal atrophy was reported also outside of the bleb area. 
In view of available data on chorioretinal atrophy from the literature and spontaneous reports, including 
in some cases a temporal relationship, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between voretigene 
neparvovec and chorioretinal atrophy is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the 
product information of products containing voretigene neparvovec should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for voretigene neparvovec the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing voretigene neparvovec is unchanged subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/152946/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
