EMA/823783/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004451 
Luxturna (voretigene neparvovec) 
An overview of Luxturna and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Luxturna and what is it used for? 
Luxturna is a medicine that is used to treat adults and children with loss of vision due to inherited 
retinal dystrophy, a rare genetic disorder of the retina (the light sensitive membrane at the back of the 
eye).  
Luxturna can only be used while patients still have enough functioning cells left in the retina and when 
the disease is caused by mutations (changes) in the gene RPE65. RPE65 is responsible for the 
production of an enzyme called all-trans retinyl isomerase, which is necessary for the normal 
functioning of retinal cells.  
Luxturna contains the active substance voretigene neparvovec and is a type of advanced therapy 
medicine called a ‘gene therapy product’. This is a type of medicine that works by delivering genes into 
the body. 
Inherited retinal dystrophy is rare, and Luxturna was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine 
used in rare diseases) for two forms of the disease on various dates (retinitis pigmentosa: 28 July 
2015; Leber's congenital amaurosis: 2 April 2012). Further information on the orphan designations can 
be found on the European Medicines Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-
designations. 
How is Luxturna used? 
Luxturna can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be given by a surgeon 
experienced in performing eye surgery. 
Luxturna is given as a single injection into the back of each eye, under the retina. The second eye 
should be treated at least 6 days after the first. Patients should start receiving immunosuppressant 
medicines (medicines that reduce the activity of the immune system, the body’s natural defences) 3 
days before Luxturna is injected into the first eye, to lower the risk of the medicine being rejected by 
the body, and this treatment should continue for 14 days after injection. 
For more information about using Luxturna, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Luxturna work? 
Luxturna consists of a virus that contains normal copies of the RPE65 gene. When Luxturna is injected 
into the eye the virus carries the RPE65 gene into the retinal cells and enables them to produce the 
missing enzyme. This helps the cells in the retina to function better, slowing down the progression of 
the disease. 
The type of virus used in this medicine (adeno-associated virus) does not cause disease in humans. 
What benefits of Luxturna have been shown in studies? 
Luxturna was investigated in one main study involving 31 patients with inherited retinal dystrophy due 
to RPE65 mutations. The main measure of effectiveness was how well patients performed in a mobility 
test, where they were required to navigate a route with turns and obstacles under various light 
settings. Patients were considered to have passed the test if they completed the route within 3 minutes 
and bumped into no more than 3 obstacles. 
After one year of treatment, patients treated with Luxturna improved their scores by 1.8 points, while 
patients who were not given Luxturna improved their scores by 0.2 points, meaning that patients 
treated with Luxturna were able to move better along the route. Additionally, 13 of the 21 patients 
(62%) treated with Luxturna passed the mobility test at the lowest light level of 1 lux (similar to 
conditions of a poorly lit pavement at night), while none of the patients not given the medicine were 
able to do so. The improvement in patients’ vision was maintained for at least three years. 
What are the risks associated with Luxturna? 
The most common side effects with Luxturna (which may affect more than 1 in 20 people) are 
conjunctival hyperaemia (increased blood supply to the eye, leading to redness of the eye), cataract 
(clouding of the lens of the eye) and increased pressure inside the eye. For the full list of side effects of 
Luxturna, see the package leaflet. 
Luxturna must not be used in patients with eye infection or inflammation. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Luxturna authorised in the EU? 
Luxturna has been shown to improve patients’ vision and ability to move around obstacles, particularly 
in dim light, and is expected to improve their quality of life. This was considered an important clinical 
benefit, taking into account the lack of authorised treatments for this progressive, degenerative 
condition. The safety of Luxturna was considered acceptable and side effects manageable. Therefore, 
the European Medicines Agency decided that Luxturna’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Luxturna? 
The company that markets Luxturna will set up an educational programme and prepare educational 
material aimed at doctors and pharmacists expected to use and handle Luxturna, in order to ensure 
the correct use of the medicine and minimise the risks associated with the medicine and its 
administration. Luxturna will only be available from centres where the educational programme is in 
place. An information package for patients and their carers will also be provided.  
Luxturna (voretigene neparvovec)  
EMA/823783/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
In addition, the company will have to follow-up all patients who received Luxturna in the main studies 
for 15 years, in order to characterise the long-term effectiveness and safety of the medicine, and 
establish a registry to collect long-term safety data in patients treated with Luxturna.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Luxturna have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Luxturna are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Luxturna are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Luxturna 
Luxturna received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 November 2018.  
Further information on Luxturna can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/luxturna.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Luxturna (voretigene neparvovec)  
EMA/823783/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
