EMA/245189/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005382 
Lydisilka (drospirenone / estetrol) 
An overview of Lydisilka and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lydisilka and what is it used for? 
Lydisilka is a combined hormonal contraceptive. It contains the active substances 
drospirenone and estetrol monohydrate.  
How is Lydisilka used? 
Lydisilka can only be obtained with a prescription. It comes in blisters containing 28 
tablets (24 ‘active’ tablets and 4 ‘inactive’ tablets that do not contain the active 
substances).  
Tablets are taken by mouth in sequence, starting on the first day of the menstrual 
cycle with the active tablets, followed by the 4 inactive tablets. Each subsequent 
pack is started the day after finishing the previous pack, for as long as 
contraception is required. For more information about using Lydisilka, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor, pharmacist or prescriber. 
How does Lydisilka work? 
Lydisilka is a combined contraceptive pill that contains two active substances, 
drospirenone (a progestogen) and estetrol (an oestrogen). Estetrol is a synthetic 
version of an oestrogen that is naturally present during pregnancy, and 
drospirenone is a hormone with similar effects to the progesterone produced during 
the menstrual cycle. Both these substances change the body’s hormonal balance to 
prevent ovulation. 
What benefits of Lydisilka have been shown in studies? 
Lydisilka was found to be effective at preventing unwanted pregnancies in 2 main 
studies involving a total of around 3,400 women. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The main measure of effectiveness was the number of unwanted pregnancies in 100 
women-years (corresponding to 100 women taking contraception for one year). This 
measure is known as the Pearl Index, and a lower Pearl Index represents a lower 
chance of getting pregnant. 
In a first study conducted in 1,553 women between the ages of 18 and 50, the Pearl 
Index was 0.44 in the group aged 18 to 35 and 0.38 in the whole group. This was 
considered a sufficiently low value for an oral contraceptive.  
In a second study, conducted in 1,864 women aged 16 to 50 years old, where more 
pregnancies were reported, the Pearl Index was 2.42 in women aged 16 to 35 and 
2.30 in the group aged 16 to 50.  
What are the risks associated with Lydisilka? 
The most common side effects with Lydisilka (which may affect up to 1 in 10 
people) are irregular bleeding between periods (metrorrhagia), headache, acne, 
vaginal bleeding and painful periods (dysmenorrhoea). For the full list of side effects 
of Lydisilka, see the package leaflet. 
Lydisilka should not be used by women with a history of blood clots in the veins or 
arteries, or by women with risk factors for blood clots. It should also not be used by 
women who have experienced severe liver and kidney problems, liver tumours, 
hormone-dependent cancers, or abnormal bleeding from the genital area of 
unknown cause. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lydisilka authorised in the EU? 
Overall, Lydisilka was considered effective at preventing unwanted pregnancies. In 
terms of safety, the side effects of Lydisilka are similar to those of other combined 
hormonal contraceptives and are in line with what would be expected with an 
oestrogen and a progestogen pill. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided 
that Lydisilka’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lydisilka? 
The company that markets Lydisilka will provide a checklist for healthcare 
professionals and an information card for women to help manage the risk of 
thromboembolic events.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and 
patients for the safe and effective use of Lydisilka have also been included in the 
summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lydisilka are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Lydisilka are carefully evaluated and any necessary action 
taken to protect patients. 
Lydisilka (drospirenone / estetrol)  
EMA/245189/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Lydisilka 
Further information on Lydisilka can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lydisilka.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2021. 
Lydisilka (drospirenone / estetrol)  
EMA/245189/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
