ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lydisilka 3 mg/14.2 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each pink active tablet contains 3 mg drospirenone and estetrol monohydrate equivalent to 14.2 mg 
estetrol. 
Each white placebo tablet does not contain active substances. 
Excipient with known effect  
Each pink active tablet contains 40 mg lactose monohydrate.  
Each white placebo tablet contains 68 mg lactose monohydrate.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
The active film-coated tablet is pink, 6 mm diameter, round, biconvex with a drop-shaped logo 
embossed on one side. 
The placebo film-coated tablet is white to off-white, 6 mm diameter, round, biconvex with a 
drop-shaped logo embossed on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Oral contraception. 
The decision to prescribe Lydisilka should take into consideration the individual woman’s current risk 
factors, particularly those for venous thromboembolism (VTE), and how the risk of VTE with 
Lydisilka compares with other combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs) (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology and method of administration 
How to take Lydisilka 
Oral use. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One tablet is to be taken daily for 28 consecutive days. The tablets must be taken every day at about 
the same time, if necessary, with a little liquid, in the order shown on the blister pack. Each pack starts 
with 24 pink active tablets, followed by 4 white placebo tablets. Each subsequent pack is started the 
day after the last tablet of the previous pack. 
Stickers marked with the 7 days of the week are provided, and the relevant weekday sticker should be 
stuck on the tablet blister as an indicator of when the first tablet has been taken.  
Withdrawal bleeding usually starts on day 2-3 after starting the white placebo tablets and may not 
have finished before the next pack is started. See ‘Cycle control’ in section 4.4. 
How to start Lydisilka 
No preceding hormonal contraceptive use (in the past month) 
• 
Tablet-taking has to start on day 1 of the woman’s menstrual cycle, i.e., the first day of her menstrual 
bleeding, and when doing so, no additional contraceptive measures are  necessary.  
If the first tablet is taken on days 2 to 5 of the woman’s menstruation, this medicinal product will not 
be effective until after the first 7 consecutive days of  pink active tablet-taking. A reliable barrier 
method of contraception such as a condom must therefore be used additionally during these first 
7 days. The possibility of pregnancy should be considered before starting Lydisilka. 
• 
Changing from a CHC (combined oral contraceptive (COC), vaginal ring or transdermal 
patch)  
The woman should start with Lydisilka preferably on the day after the last active tablet  (the last tablet 
containing the active substances) of her previous COC, but at the latest on the day following the usual 
tablet-free or placebo tablet interval of her previous COC.  
In case a vaginal ring or transdermal patch has been used the woman should start using Lydisilka 
preferably on the day of removal, but at the latest when the next application would have been due. 
• 
Changing from a progestogen-only-method (progestogen-only pill, injection, implant) or from a 
progestogen-releasing intrauterine system (IUS) 
The woman may switch any day from the progestogen-only pill (from an implant or the IUS on the 
day of its removal, from an injectable when the next injection would be due) but should in all of these 
cases be advised to additionally use a barrier method for the first 7 consecutive days of tablet-taking. 
Following first-trimester abortion  
• 
The woman may start immediately. When doing so, she needs not take additional contraceptive 
measures.  
Following delivery or second-trimester abortion  
• 
Women should be advised to start between day 21 and 28 after delivery or second-trimester abortion. 
When starting later, the woman should be advised to additionally use a barrier method for the first 
7 days. However, if intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded before the actual 
start of CHC use or the woman has to wait for her first menstrual period.  
For breast-feeding women see section 4.6. 
Management of missed tablets 
White placebo tablets from the last row of the blister can be disregarded. However, they should be 
discarded to avoid unintentionally prolonging the placebo tablet phase.  
The following advice only refers to missed pink active tablets: 
If the user is less than 24 hours late in taking any pink active tablet, contraceptive protection is not 
reduced. The woman should take the tablet as soon as possible and should take further tablets at the 
usual time. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If she is more than 24 hours late in taking any pink active tablet, contraceptive protection may be 
reduced. The management of missed tablets can be guided by the following two basic rules: 
1. 
2. 
The recommended hormone-free tablet interval is 4 days, tablet-taking must never be 
discontinued for longer than 4 days. 
Seven days of uninterrupted pink active tablet-taking are required to attain adequate suppression 
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-axis. 
Accordingly, the following advice can be given in daily practice: 
Day 1-7 
The user should take the last missed tablet as soon as possible, even if this means taking two tablets at 
the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time. In addition, a barrier method such 
as a condom should be used until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted pink active tablet-taking. 
If intercourse took place in the preceding 7 days, the possibility of a pregnancy should be considered. 
The more tablets are missed and the closer they are to the placebo tablet phase, the higher the risk of a 
pregnancy. 
Day 8-17 
The user should take the last missed tablet as soon as possible, even if this means taking two tablets at 
the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time. Provided that the woman has taken 
her tablets correctly in the 7 days preceding the first missed tablet, there is no need to use extra 
contraceptive precautions. However, if she has missed more than 1 tablet, the woman should be 
advised to use extra precautions until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted pink active tablet-
taking. 
Day 18-24 
The risk of reduced reliability is imminent because of the forthcoming placebo tablet phase. However, 
by adjusting the tablet-intake schedule, reduced contraceptive protection can still be prevented. By 
adhering to either of the following two options, there is therefore no need to use extra contraceptive 
precautions, provided that in the 7 days preceding the first missed tablet the woman has taken all 
tablets correctly. If this is not the case, she should follow the first of these two options and use extra 
precautions until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted pink active tablet-taking as well. 
1. 
2. 
The user should take the last missed tablet as soon as possible, even if this means taking two 
tablets at the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time until the pink active 
tablets are used up. The 4 white placebo tablets from the last row must be discarded. The next 
blister pack must be started right away. The user is unlikely to have a withdrawal bleed until the 
end of the pink active tablets section of the second pack, but she may experience spotting or 
breakthrough bleeding on pink active tablet-taking days. 
The woman may also be advised to discontinue pink active tablet-taking from the current blister 
pack. She should then take white placebo tablets from the last row for up to 4 days, including 
the days she missed tablets, and subsequently continue with the next blister pack.  
If the woman missed tablets and subsequently has no withdrawal bleeding in the placebo tablet phase, 
the possibility of a pregnancy should be considered. 
Advice in case of gastro-intestinal disturbances 
In case of severe gastro-intestinal disturbances (e.g., vomiting or diarrhoea), absorption may not be 
complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting occurs within 3-4 hours 
after pink active tablet-taking, a new (replacement) tablet should be taken as soon as possible. The 
new pink active tablet should be taken within 24 hours of the usual time of tablet-taking if possible. If 
more than 24 hours elapse, the advice concerning missed tablets, as given in section 4.2 “Management 
of missed tablets”, is applicable. If the woman does not want to change her normal tablet-taking 
schedule, she has to take the extra pink active tablet(s) from another blister pack. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to postpone a withdrawal bleed 
To delay a period the woman should continue with another blister pack of Lydisilka without taking the 
white placebo tablets from her current pack. The extension can be carried on for as long as wished 
until the end of the pink active tablets in the second pack. During the extension the woman may 
experience breakthrough-bleeding or spotting. Regular intake of Lydisilka is then resumed after the 
placebo tablet phase. 
To shift her periods to another day of the week than the woman is used to with her current scheme, she 
can be advised to shorten her forthcoming placebo tablet phase by as many days as she likes. The 
shorter the interval, the higher the risk that she does not have a withdrawal bleed and will experience 
breakthrough-bleeding and spotting during the subsequent pack (just as when delaying a period). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Lydisilka is not indicated after menopause. 
Renal impairment 
Lydisilka has not been specifically studied in patients with renal impairment. Lydisilka is 
contraindicated in women with severe renal insufficiency (see section 4.3). 
Hepatic impairment 
No clinical studies have been performed with Lydisilka in patients with hepatic impairment. Lydisilka 
is contraindicated in women with severe hepatic disease as long as liver function values have not 
returned to normal (see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
Lydisilka is only indicated after menarche. The safety and efficacy of Lydisilka in adolescents aged 
under 16 years of age has not been established. No data are available. 
4.3  Contraindications 
As no epidemiological data are yet available for estetrol-containing CHCs, the contraindications for 
ethinylestradiol-containing CHCs are considered applicable to the use of Lydisilka. CHCs should not 
be used in the following conditions. Should any of the conditions appear for the first time during 
Lydisilka use, the medicinal product should be stopped immediately. 
- 
- 
Presence or risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
- 
- 
VTE - current VTE (on anticoagulants) or history of VTE (e.g., deep venous thrombosis 
[DVT] or pulmonary embolism [PE]). 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for venous thromboembolism, such as 
activated protein C (APC)-resistance (including factor V Leiden), antithrombin-III-
deficiency, protein C deficiency, protein S deficiency. 
-  Major surgery with prolonged immobilisation (see section 4.4). 
- 
A high risk of venous thromboembolism due to the presence of multiple risk factors (see 
section 4.4). 
Presence or risk of arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
- 
ATE - current ATE, history of ATE (e.g., myocardial infarction [MI]) or prodromal 
condition (e.g., angina pectoris). 
Cerebrovascular disease – current stroke, history of stroke or prodromal condition (e.g., 
transient ischaemic attack [TIA]). 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for arterial thromboembolism, such as 
hyperhomocysteinaemia and antiphospholipid-antibodies (anticardiolipin-antibodies, lupus 
anticoagulant). 
History of migraine with focal neurological symptoms. 
- 
- 
- 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
A high risk of arterial thromboembolism due to multiple risk factors (see section 4.4) or to 
the presence of one serious risk factor such as: 
- 
- 
- 
diabetes mellitus with vascular symptoms; 
severe hypertension; 
severe dyslipoproteinaemia. 
Presence or history of severe hepatic disease as long as liver function values have not returned to 
normal. 
Severe renal insufficiency or acute renal failure. 
Presence or history of liver tumours (benign or malignant). 
Known or suspected sex steroid-influenced malignancies (e.g., of the genital organs or the 
breasts). 
Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding. 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Warnings 
If any of the conditions or risk factors mentioned below is present, the suitability of Lydisilka should 
be discussed with the woman before she decides to start using Lydisilka. 
In the event of aggravation, or first appearance of any of these conditions or risk factors, the woman 
should be advised to contact her doctor to determine whether the use of Lydisilka should be 
discontinued. All data presented below are based upon epidemiological data obtained with CHCs 
containing ethinylestradiol. Lydisilka contains estetrol. As no epidemiological data are yet available 
with estetrol containing-CHCs, the warnings are considered applicable to the use of Lydisilka.  
In case of suspected or confirmed VTE or ATE, CHC use must be discontinued. In case anticoagulant 
therapy is started, adequate alternative non-hormonal contraception should be initiated because of the 
teratogenicity of anticoagulant therapy (coumarins). 
Circulatory disorders 
Risk of VTE 
The use of any CHC increases the risk of VTE compared with no use. Products that contain low dose 
ethinylestradiol (<50 µg ethinylestradiol) combined with levonorgestrel, norgestimate or 
norethisterone are associated with the lowest risk of VTE. It is not yet known how the risk with 
Lydisilka compares with these lower risk products. The decision to use any product other than 
one known to have the lowest VTE risk should be taken only after a discussion with the woman 
to ensure she understands the risk of VTE with CHCs, how her current risk factors influence 
this risk, and that her VTE risk is highest in the first ever year of use.  
There is also some evidence that the risk is increased when a CHC is re-started after a break in use 
of 4 weeks or more.  
In women who do not use a CHC and are not pregnant about 2 out of 10,000 will develop a VTE over 
the period of one year. However, in any individual woman the risk may be far higher, depending on her 
underlying risk factors (see below). 
Epidemiological studies in women who use low dose (<50 µg ethinylestradiol) combined hormonal 
contraceptives have found that out of 10,000 women between about 6 and 12 will develop a VTE in one 
year. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is estimated1 that out of 10,000 women who use a CHC containing ethinylestradiol and drospirenone, 
between 9 and 12 women will develop a VTE in one year; this compares with about 62 in 10,000 women 
who use a levonorgestrel-containing CHC. 
It is not yet known how the risk of VTE with CHC containing estetrol and drospirenone compares 
with the risk with low dose levonorgestrel-containing CHCs.  
The number of VTEs per year with low-dose CHCs is fewer than the number expected in women during 
pregnancy or in the postpartum period. 
VTE may be fatal in 1-2% of cases. 
Extremely rarely, thrombosis has been reported to occur in CHC users in other blood vessels, e.g., 
hepatic, mesenteric, renal or retinal veins and arteries. 
Risk factors for VTE 
The risk for venous thromboembolic complications in CHC users may increase substantially in a 
woman with additional risk factors, particularly if there are multiple risk factors (see table 1). 
Lydisilka is contraindicated if a woman has multiple risk factors that put her at high risk of venous 
thrombosis (see section 4.3). If a woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase 
in risk is greater than the sum of the individual factors – in this case her total risk of VTE should be 
considered. If the balance of benefits and risks is considered to be negative a CHC should not be 
prescribed (see section 4.3). 
Table 1: Risk factors for VTE 
Risk factor 
Obesity (body mass index [BMI] over 
30 kg/m²). 
Prolonged immobilisation, major surgery, any 
surgery to the legs or pelvis, neurosurgery, or 
major trauma. 
Comment 
Risk increases substantially as BMI rises. 
Particularly important to consider if other risk 
factors also present. 
In these situations, it is advisable to discontinue 
use of the pill (in the case of elective surgery at 
least four weeks in advance) and not resume 
until two weeks after complete remobilisation. 
Another method of contraception should be 
used to avoid unintentional pregnancy. 
Antithrombotic treatment should be considered 
if Lydisilka has not been discontinued in 
advance. 
Note: temporary immobilisation including air 
travel >4 hours can also be a risk factor for 
VTE, particularly in women with other risk 
factors. 
Positive family history (VTE ever in a sibling 
or parent especially at a relatively early age, 
e.g., before 50 years). 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the 
woman should be referred to a specialist for 
advice before deciding about any CHC use. 
1These incidences were estimated from the totality of the epidemiological study data, using relative risks for the different 
products compared with levonorgestrel-containing CHCs.   
2 Mid-point of range of 5-7 per 10,000 WY, based on a relative risk for CHCs containing levonorgestrel versus non-use of 
approximately 2.3 to 3.6 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medical conditions associated with VTE.  Cancer, systemic lupus erythematosus, 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease or 
ulcerative colitis) and sickle cell disease. 
Increasing age. 
Particularly above 35 years. 
There is no consensus about the possible role of varicose veins and superficial thrombophlebitis in the 
onset or progression of venous thrombosis. 
The increased risk of thromboembolism in pregnancy, and particularly the 6-week period of the 
puerperium, must be considered (for information on pregnancy and lactation see section 4.6). 
Symptoms of VTE (DVT and PE) 
In the event of symptoms, women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of DVT can include: 
- 
- 
- 
unilateral swelling of the leg and/or foot or along a vein in the leg; 
pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only when standing or walking; 
increased warmth in the affected leg; red or discoloured skin on the leg. 
Symptoms of PE can include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sudden onset of unexplained shortness of breath or rapid breathing; 
sudden coughing which may be associated with haemoptysis; 
sharp chest pain; 
severe light headedness or dizziness; 
rapid or irregular heartbeat. 
Some of these symptoms (e.g., ‘shortness of breath’, ‘coughing’) are non-specific and might be 
misinterpreted as more common or less severe events (e.g., respiratory tract infections). 
Other signs of vascular occlusion can include: sudden pain, swelling and slight blue discoloration of 
an extremity. 
If the occlusion occurs in the eye symptoms can range from painless blurring of vision which can 
progress to loss of vision. Sometimes loss of vision can occur almost immediately. 
Risk of ATE 
Epidemiological studies have associated the use of CHCs with an increased risk for arterial 
thromboembolism (myocardial infarction [MI]) or for cerebrovascular accident (e.g., TIA, stroke). 
Arterial thromboembolic events may be fatal. 
Risk factors for ATE 
The risk of arterial thromboembolic complications or of a cerebrovascular accident in CHC users 
increases in women with risk factors (see table 2). Lydisilka is contraindicated if a woman has one 
serious or multiple risk factors for ATE that puts her at high risk of arterial thrombosis (see 
section 4.3). If a woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase in risk is greater 
than the sum of the individual factors – in this case her total risk should be considered. If the balance 
of benefits and risks is considered to be negative a CHC should not be prescribed (see section 4.3). 
Table 2: Risk factors for ATE 
Risk factor 
Increasing age. 
Smoking. 
Comment 
Particularly above 35 years. 
Women should be advised not to smoke if they 
wish to use a CHC. Women over 35 years who 
continue to smoke should be strongly advised to 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypertension. 
Obesity (BMI over 30 kg/m2). 
Risk increases substantially as BMI increases. 
use a different method of contraception. 
Positive family history (arterial 
thromboembolism ever in a sibling or parent 
especially at relatively early age, e.g., below 
50 years). 
Migraine. 
Other medical conditions associated with 
adverse vascular events. 
Particularly important in women with additional 
risk factors. 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the 
woman should be referred to a specialist for 
advice before deciding about any CHC use. 
An increase in frequency or severity of 
migraine during CHC use (which may be 
prodromal of a cerebrovascular event) may be a 
reason for immediate discontinuation. 
Diabetes mellitus, hyperhomocysteinaemia, 
valvular heart disease and atrial fibrillation, 
dyslipoproteinaemia and systemic lupus 
erythematosus. 
Symptoms of ATE 
In the event of symptoms women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of a cerebrovascular accident can include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg, especially on one side of the body; 
sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known cause; 
loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure. 
Temporary symptoms suggest the event is a transient ischaemic attack (TIA). 
Symptoms of myocardial infarction (MI) can include: 
- 
pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness, sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm, or 
below the breastbone; 
discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm, stomach; 
feeling of being full, having indigestion or choking; 
sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
rapid or irregular heartbeats. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tumours 
An increased risk of cervical cancer in long-term users of CHCs containing ethinylestradiol (>5 years) 
has been reported in some epidemiological studies, but there continues to be controversy about the 
extent to which this finding is attributable to the confounding effects of sexual behaviour and other 
factors such as human papilloma virus (HPV).  
With the use of the higher-dosed CHCs (50 µg ethinylestradiol) the risk of endometrial and ovarian 
cancer is reduced. Whether this also applies to estetrol-containing CHCs remains to be confirmed. 
A meta-analysis from 54 epidemiological studies reported that there is a slightly increased relative risk 
(RR=1.24) of having breast cancer diagnosed in women who are currently using CHCs containing 
ethinylestradiol. The excess risk gradually disappears during the course of the 10 years after cessation 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of CHC use. Because breast cancer is rare in women under 40 years of age, the excess number of 
breast cancer diagnoses in current and recent CHC users is small in relation to the overall risk of breast 
cancer. The breast cancers diagnosed in ever-users tend to be less advanced clinically than the cancers 
diagnosed in never-users. The observed pattern of increased risk may be due to an earlier diagnosis of 
breast cancer in CHC users, the biological effects of CHCs or a combination of both. 
In rare cases, benign liver tumours, and even more rarely, malignant liver tumours have been reported in 
users of CHCs containing ethinylestradiol. In isolated cases, these tumours have led to life-threatening 
intra-abdominal haemorrhages. Therefore, a hepatic tumour should be considered in the differential 
diagnosis when severe upper abdominal pain, liver enlargement or signs of intra-abdominal haemorrhage 
occur in women taking CHCs. 
Hepatitis C 
During clinical studies with patients treated for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection with medicinal 
products containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir with or without ribavirin, ALT 
elevations higher than 5 times the upper limit of normal occurred significantly more frequently in 
women using ethinylestradiol-containing medicinal products such as CHCs. Additionally, also in 
patients treated with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, ALT elevations 
were observed in women using ethinylestradiol-containing medications such as CHCs. Women using 
medicinal products containing oestrogens other than ethinylestradiol had a rate of ALT elevation similar 
to those not receiving any oestrogens; however, due to the limited number of women taking these other 
oestrogens, caution is warranted for co-administration with the combination therapeutic regimen 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir with or without ribavirin and also the regimen 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir. See also section 4.5.  
Other conditions 
The progestogen component in Lydisilka, drospirenone, is an aldosterone antagonist with potassium 
sparing properties. In most cases, no increase of potassium levels would be expected. In a clinical study 
with drospirenone, however, in some patients with mild or moderate renal impairment and concomitant 
use of potassium-sparing medicinal products, serum potassium levels increased slightly, but not 
significantly, during intake of 3 mg drospirenone for 14 days. Therefore, it is recommended to check 
serum potassium during the first treatment cycle with Lydisilka in patients presenting with renal 
insufficiency and a pretreatment serum potassium in the upper reference range, and particularly during 
concomitant use of potassium sparing medicinal products. See also section 4.5. 
Women with hypertriglyceridaemia, or a family history thereof, may be at an increased risk of 
pancreatitis when using CHCs. 
Although small increases in blood pressure have been reported in many women taking CHCs, clinically 
relevant increases are rare. A relationship between CHC use and clinical hypertension has not been 
established. However, if a sustained clinically significant hypertension develops during the use of a 
CHC, then it is prudent for the physician to suspend the intake of the tablets and treat the hypertension. 
Where considered appropriate, CHC use may be resumed if normotensive values can be achieved with 
antihypertensive therapy. 
The following conditions have been reported to occur or deteriorate with both pregnancy and CHC use, 
but the evidence of an association with CHC use is inconclusive: jaundice and/or pruritus related to 
cholestasis; gallstone formation; porphyria; systemic lupus erythematosus; haemolytic uraemic 
syndrome; Sydenham’s chorea; herpes gestationis; otosclerosis-related hearing loss. 
Exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary and acquired angioedema. 
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use until 
markers of liver function return to normal. Recurrence of cholestatic jaundice which occurred first during 
pregnancy or previous use of sex steroids necessitates the discontinuation of CHCs. 
Although CHCs may have an effect on peripheral insulin resistance and glucose tolerance, there is no 
evidence for a need to alter the therapeutic regimen in diabetics using low-dose CHCs (containing 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<50 µg ethinylestradiol). However, diabetic women should be carefully observed, particularly in the 
early stage of CHC use. 
Worsening of endogenous depression, of epilepsy, of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis has been 
reported during CHC use.  
Depressed mood and depression are well-known undesirable effects of hormonal contraceptive use (see 
section 4.8). Depression can be serious and is a well-known risk factor for suicidal behaviour and 
suicide. Women should be advised to contact their physician in case of mood changes and depressive 
symptoms, including shortly after initiating the treatment. 
Chloasma may occasionally occur, especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum. Women 
with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation whilst taking 
CHCs. 
Medical examination/consultation 
Prior to the initiation or reinstitution of Lydisilka a complete medical history (including family 
history) should be taken and pregnancy must be ruled out. Blood pressure should be measured and a 
physical examination should be performed, guided by the contraindications (see section 4.3) and 
warnings (see section 4.4). It is important to draw a woman’s attention to the information on venous 
and arterial thrombosis, including the risk of Lydisilka compared with other CHCs, the symptoms of 
VTE and ATE, the known risk factors and what to do in the event of a suspected thrombosis. The 
woman should also be instructed to carefully read the user leaflet and to adhere to the advice given. 
The frequency and nature of examinations should be based on established practice guidelines and be 
adapted to the individual woman.  
Women should be advised that hormonal contraceptives do not protect against human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and/or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and 
other sexually transmitted diseases. 
Reduced efficacy 
The efficacy of CHCs may be reduced in the event of missed tablets (see section 4.2), gastro-intestinal 
disturbances during pink active tablet taking (see section 4.2) or concomitant medicinal products (see 
section 4.5). 
Cycle control 
With all CHCs, unscheduled bleeding (spotting or bleeding) may occur, especially during the first 
months of use. Therefore, the evaluation of any irregular bleeding is only meaningful after an 
adaptation interval of about three cycles. Unscheduled bleeding or spotting occurred in 14% to 20% of 
women using Lydisilka. Most of these episodes concerned spotting only.  
If bleeding irregularities persist or occur after previously regular cycles, then non-hormonal causes 
should be considered, and adequate diagnostic measures are indicated to exclude malignancy or 
pregnancy. These may include curettage. 
In a small percentage of women (6-8%), withdrawal bleeding may not occur during the placebo tablet 
phase. If absence of withdrawal bleeding occurs and Lydisilka has been taken according to the 
instructions as described in section 4.2, pregnancy is unlikely. However, pregnancy must be ruled out 
before Lydisilka use is continued, if Lydisilka has not been taken as directed, or if two consecutive 
withdrawal bleeds do not occur. 
Laboratory tests 
The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, including 
biochemical parameters of liver, thyroid, adrenal and renal function, plasma levels of (carrier) 
proteins, e.g., corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) and lipid/lipoprotein fractions, parameters of 
carbohydrate metabolism and parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Changes generally remain 
within the normal laboratory range. Drospirenone causes an increase in plasma renin activity and 
plasma aldosterone induced by its mild anti-mineralocorticoid activity. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Note: The prescribing information of concomitant medicinal products should be consulted to identify 
potential interactions. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Effects of other medicinal products on Lydisilka 
Interactions can occur with medicinal products that induce microsomal enzymes, resulting in increased 
clearance of sex hormones, which may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. 
Management 
- 
Enzyme induction can already be observed after a few days of treatment. Maximum enzyme induction 
is generally observed within a few weeks. After the cessation of medicinal product therapy, enzyme 
induction may be sustained for about 4 weeks. 
Short-term treatment 
- 
Women on treatment with enzyme-inducing medicinal products should temporarily use a barrier 
method or another method of contraception in addition to the CHC. The barrier method must be used 
during the whole time of the concomitant medicinal product therapy and for 28 days after its 
discontinuation. If the medicinal product therapy runs beyond the end of the pink active tablets in the 
CHC pack, the white placebo tablets must be discarded and the next CHC pack should be started right 
away. 
Long-term treatment 
- 
In women on long-term treatment with hepatic enzyme-inducing active substances, another reliable, 
non-hormonal, method of contraception is recommended. 
The following interactions have been reported in the literature.  
Medicinal products increasing the clearance of CHCs (enzyme-induction), e.g.: 
barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenytoin, primidone, rifampicin and HIV medicinal products 
(e.g. ritonavir, nevirapine and efavirenz) and possibly also felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, 
topiramate and products containing the herbal St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum).  
Medicinal products with variable effects on the clearance of CHCs: 
When co-administered with CHCs, many combinations of HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including combinations with HCV inhibitors can increase or decrease 
plasma concentrations of oestrogens and progestogens. The effect of these changes may be clinically 
relevant in some cases. 
Therefore, the prescribing information of concomitant HIV/HCV medicinal products should be 
consulted to identify potential interactions and any related recommendations. In case of any doubt, an 
additional barrier method of contraception should be used by women on protease inhibitor or non-
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy. 
Medicinal products decreasing the clearance of CHCs (enzyme inhibitors): 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical relevance of potential interactions with enzyme inhibitors remains unknown. Concomitant 
administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase plasma concentrations of oestrogens or 
progestogens or both. 
Potential interactions with drospirenone 
- 
In a multiple dose study with a drospirenone (3 mg/day) / ethinylestradiol (0.02 mg/day) combination, 
co-administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole for 10 days increased the area under 
the curve during a 24-hour period (AUC(0-24 h)) of drospirenone (and ethinylestradiol) 2.7-fold (and 
1.4-fold, respectively). 
Potential interactions with estetrol 
- 
Estetrol is predominantly glucuronised by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B7 enzyme (see 
section 5.2 ‘Pharmacokinetic properties’). No clinically relevant interaction was observed with estetrol 
and the strong UGT inhibitor valproic acid. 
Effects of Lydisilka on other medicinal products 
Oral contraceptives may affect the metabolism of certain other active substances. Accordingly, plasma 
and tissue concentrations may either increase (e.g., ciclosporin) or decrease (e.g., lamotrigine). 
Based on in vitro inhibition studies and in vivo interaction studies in female volunteers using 
omeprazole, simvastatin and midazolam as marker substrate, an interaction of drospirenone at doses of 
3 mg with the metabolism of other active substances is unlikely. 
Based on in vitro inhibition studies, an interaction of estetrol contained in Lydisilka with the 
metabolism of other active substances is unlikely.  
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Concomitant use with the HCV medicinal products containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and 
dasabuvir, with or without ribavirin, may increase the risk of ALT elevations in women using 
ethinylestradiol containing medicinal products such as CHCs (see section 4.4). Women using 
medicinal products containing oestrogens other than ethinylestradiol, had a rate of ALT elevation 
similar to those not receiving any oestrogens; however, due to the limited number of women taking 
these other oestrogens, caution is warranted for co-administration with the combination therapeutic 
regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir with or without ribavirin and also the regimen 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir (see section 4.4). 
In patients without renal impairment, the concomitant use of drospirenone and angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ACE)-inhibitors or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) did not show a 
significant effect on serum potassium. Nevertheless, concomitant use of Lydisilka with aldosterone 
antagonists or potassium-sparing diuretics has not been studied. In this case, serum potassium should 
be tested during the first treatment cycle. See also section 4.4. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Lydisilka is not indicated during pregnancy. 
If pregnancy occurs while taking Lydisilka, further intake must be stopped. 
There are limited amount of data from the use of Lydisilka in pregnant women.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Based on animal experience, 
harmful effects due to hormonal action of the active substances cannot be excluded. 
The increased risk of VTE during the postpartum period should be considered when re-starting 
Lydisilka (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
Small amounts of the contraceptive steroids and/or their metabolites may be excreted with the breast 
milk and might affect the child. 
Breast-feeding may be influenced by CHCs as they may reduce the quantity and change the 
composition of breast milk. Therefore, the use of CHCs should not be recommended until the 
breast-feeding mother has completely weaned her child and an alternative method of contraception 
should be proposed to women wishing to breastfeed.  
Fertility 
Lydisilka is indicated for oral contraception. For information on return to fertility, see section 5.1. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lydisilka has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions with Lydisilka are metrorrhagia (4.3%), headache 
(3.2%), acne (3.2%), vaginal haemorrhage (2.7%) and dysmenorrhoea (2.4%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions that have been identified are listed below (see table 3). 
Adverse reactions are listed according to the MedDRA system organ class and ranked under frequency 
groupings using the following convention: common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100) and rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000). 
Table 3: List of adverse reactions 
System organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Common 
Neoplasms 
benign, malignant 
and unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps) 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Fungal infection 
Vaginal infection 
Urinary tract infection 
Mastitis 
Fibroadenoma of breast 
Appetite disorder 
Hypersensitivity 
Hyperkalaemia 
Fluid retention 
Psychiatric 
Mood disorders and 
Depression(2) 
Nervousness 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
System organ 
class 
disorders 
disturbances(1) 
Libido disorder 
Anxiety disorder(3) 
Insomnia 
Emotional disorder(4) 
Stress 
Migraine 
Dizziness 
Paraesthesia 
Somnolence 
Hot flush 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Abdominal pain 
Nausea 
Abdominal distension 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Acne 
Alopecia 
Hyperhidrosis(5) 
Skin disorders(6) 
Back pain 
Amnesia 
Visual impairment 
Vision blurred 
Dry eye 
Vertigo 
Hypertension 
Venous thrombosis 
Thrombophlebitis 
Hypotension 
Varicose vein 
Gastroesophageal reflux 
disease 
Colitis 
Gastrointestinal motility 
disorder 
Constipation 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Dry mouth 
Lip swelling 
Dermatitis(7) 
Pigmentation disorder(8) 
Hirsutism 
Seborrhoea 
Pruritus 
Swelling of face 
Urticaria 
Skin discolouration 
Muscle spasms 
Limb discomfort 
Joint swelling 
Pain in extremity 
Bladder spasm 
Urine odour abnormal 
Ectopic pregnancy 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Pregnancy, 
puerperium and 
perinatal 
conditions 
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders 
Breast pain 
Metrorrhagia 
Vaginal haemorrhage 
Dysmenorrhoea 
Menorrhagia 
Abnormal withdrawal 
bleeding(9) 
Breast swelling 
Vulvovaginal disorder(10) 
Vaginal discharge 
Ovarian cyst 
Lactation disorders 
Endometrial disorder 
Dysfunctional uterine 
bleeding 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ 
class 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
General disorders 
and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations  Weight fluctuation 
Premenstrual syndrome 
Breast mass(11) 
Uterine spasm 
Uterine haemorrhage 
Menometrorrhagia 
Dyspareunia 
Fatigue 
Oedema 
Chest pain 
Feeling abnormal 
Hepatic enzyme increased 
Lipids abnormal 
Pelvic pain 
Nipple disorder 
Breast discolouration 
Coital bleeding 
Malaise(12) 
Pain 
Hyperthermia 
Blood pressure increased 
Renal function test abnormal 
Blood potassium increased 
Blood glucose increased 
Haemoglobin decreased 
Serum ferritin decreased 
Blood in urine 
(1) including affect lability, anger, euphoric mood, irritability, altered mood and mood swings 
(2) including depressed mood, depressive symptom, tearfulness and depression 
(3) including agitation, anxiety, generalised anxiety disorder and panic attack 
(4 )including emotional disorder, emotional distress and crying 
(5) including night sweats, hyperhidrosis and cold sweat 
(6) including dry skin, rash and skin swelling 
(7) including dermatitis and eczema 
(8) including chloasma and skin hyperpigmentation 
(9) including abnormal withdrawal bleeding, amenorrhoea, menstrual disorder, irregular menstruation, 
oligomenorrhoea and polymenorrhoe 
(10)  including  vaginal  odour,  vulvovaginal  discomfort,  vulvovaginal  dryness,  vulvovaginal  pain, 
vulvovaginal pruritus and vulvovaginal burning sensation 
(11) including breast mass and fibrocystic breast disease 
(12) including malaise and decreased performance status  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
An increased risk of arterial and venous thrombotic and thromboembolic events, including myocardial 
infarction, stroke, transient ischemic attacks, venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism has been 
observed in women using CHCs, which is discussed in more detail in section 4.4. 
The following serious adverse events have been reported in women using CHCs, which are discussed 
in section 4.4 Special warning and precautions for use: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Venous thromboembolic disorders; 
Arterial thromboembolic disorders; 
Hypertension; 
Liver tumours; 
Occurrence or deterioration of conditions for which association with CHC use is not conclusive: 
Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, epilepsy, uterine myoma, porphyria, systemic lupus 
erythematosus, herpes gestationis, Sydenham's chorea, haemolytic uremic syndrome, cholestatic 
jaundice; 
Chloasma; 
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of CHC use 
until markers of liver function return to normal. 
Exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary and acquired 
angioedema. 
- 
- 
- 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The frequency of diagnosis of breast cancer is very slightly increased among CHC users. As breast 
cancer is rare in women under 40 years of age the excess number is small in relation to the overall risk 
of breast cancer. Causation with CHC use is unknown. For further information, see sections 4.3 and 
4.4. 
Interactions 
Breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure may result from interactions of other medicinal 
products (enzyme inducers) with oral contraceptives (see section 4.5). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There has not yet been any experience of overdose with Lydisilka. On the basis of general experience 
with combined oral contraceptives, symptoms that may possibly occur in case of taking an overdose of 
pink active tablets are nausea, vomiting and withdrawal bleeding. Withdrawal bleeding may even 
occur in girls before their menarche, if they accidentally take the medicinal product. There are no 
antidotes and further treatment should be symptomatic. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Sex hormones and modulators of the genital system, progestogens and 
oestrogens, fixed combinations, ATC code: G03AA18    
Mechanism of action 
Lydisilka contains the oestrogen estetrol and the progestogen drospirenone. Estetrol is an oestrogen 
that is only produced during pregnancy by the human foetal liver. 
Estetrol demonstrates anti-gonadotropic activity characterised by a dose-dependent decrease in both 
serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels. 
The progestogen drospirenone possesses progestagenic, antigonadotropic, antiandrogenic and mild 
antimineralocorticoid properties and has no oestrogenic, glucocorticoid or antiglucocorticoid activity. 
These properties are pharmacologically similar to the natural hormone progesterone. 
The contraceptive effect of Lydisilka is based on the interaction of various factors, the most important 
of which is inhibition of ovulation. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
Two clinical studies were performed worldwide, one pivotal study in the EU/Russia and a supportive 
study in the US in women between 16 and 50 years of age for 13 cycles/1 year. 
The following Pearl Indices in women 18-35 years of age were found in the pivotal EU/Russia study 
based on a total of 14,759 cycles in which cycles with back-up contraception and cycles with no 
sexual activity have been excluded: 
Method failure: 0.26 (upper limit 95% confidence interval 0.77); 
Method and user failure: 0.44 (upper limit 95% confidence interval 1.03). 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study in the US found higher Pearl Indices than noted in the EU/Russia study. It is known that 
Pearl Indices of studies performed in the US are higher than noted in EU studies, but the cause of this 
discrepancy is unknown. 
In a randomised open-label study, 97% of women in the Lydisilka group demonstrated a return to 
ovulation by the end of the post-treatment cycle. 
Endometrial histology was investigated in a subgroup of women (n=108) in one clinical study after up 
to 13 cycles of treatment. There were no abnormal results. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Lydisilka in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in oral contraception (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Estetrol 
Absorption 
Estetrol is rapidly absorbed after ingestion. After intake of Lydisilka, average peak plasma 
concentrations of 17.9 ng/mL are reached 0.5-2 hours after single ingestion. 
The overall exposure to estetrol is similar irrespective of food intake. The Cmax of estetrol is reduced 
with approximately 50% after food intake.  
Distribution 
Estetrol does not bind to SHBG. Estetrol displayed moderate binding to human plasma proteins 
(45.5% to 50.4%) and human serum albumin (58.6%), and low binding to human alpha-glycoprotein 
(11.2%). Estetrol is equally distributed between red blood cells and plasma. 
In vitro studies indicated that estetrol is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP transporters. Co-administration 
of drugs that affect the activity of P-gp and BCRP is however unlikely to result in a clinically relevant 
drug interaction with estetrol. 
Biotransformation 
After oral administration, estetrol undergoes extensive phase 2 metabolism to form glucuronide and 
sulphate conjugates. The two main metabolites estetrol-3-glucuronide and estetrol-16-glucuronide 
have negligible oestrogenic activity. UGT2B7 is the dominant UGT isoform involved in the 
biotransformation of estetrol into a direct glucuronide. Estetrol undergoes sulfation, mainly by specific 
oestrogen sulfotransferase (SULT1E1). 
Elimination 
The terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) of estetrol was observed to be around 24 hours under steady 
state conditions. 
Following administration of a single oral solution of 15 mg [14C]-estetrol, approximately 69% of the 
total recovered radioactivity was detected in urine and 21.9% in faeces. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
When Lydisilka is administered from 1 to 5 times the dose, estetrol plasma levels do not show any 
relevant deviation from dose-proportionality, after single administration as well as in steady-state 
conditions. 
Steady-state conditions 
Steady-state is achieved after 5 days. Cmax of estetrol is about 17.9 ng/mL and is reached 0.5-2 hours 
after dosing. Average serum concentrations are 2.46 ng/mL. The accumulation is very limited with 
daily area under the curve (AUC) at steady-state 60% larger than after a single dose. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drospirenone 
Absorption 
Drospirenone is rapidly and almost completely absorbed. After intake of Lydisilka, Cmax of about 
48.7 ng/mL is reached at about 1-3 h after multiple ingestion. Bioavailability is between 76 and 85%. 
The overall exposure to drospirenone is similar regardless of food intake around tablet intake of 
Lydisilka. 
Distribution 
Drospirenone is bound to serum albumin and does not bind to SHBG or CBG. Only 3-5% of the total 
serum concentrations of the active substance are present as free steroid. The mean apparent volume of 
distribution of drospirenone is 3.7 ± 1.2 L/kg.  
Biotransformation 
Drospirenone is extensively metabolised after oral administration. The major metabolites in plasma 
are the acid form of drospirenone, generated by opening of the lactone ring, and the 
4,5-dihydro-drospirenone-3-sulfate, formed by reduction and subsequent sulfation. Drospirenone is 
also subject to oxidative metabolism catalyzed by CYP3A4. 
Elimination 
After oral administration of Lydisilka, serum drospirenone levels decrease with a terminal elimination 
half-life observed around 34 hours. The metabolic clearance rate of drospirenone in serum is 
1.5 ± 0.2 mL/min/kg. Drospirenone is excreted only in trace amounts in unchanged form. The 
metabolites of drospirenone are excreted with the faeces and urine at an excretion ratio of about 1.2 to 
1.4. The t1/2 of metabolite excretion with the urine and faeces is about 40 h. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Drospirenone plasma levels do not show any relevant deviation from dose-proportionality over the 
3-15 mg dose range, after single administration as well as in steady-state conditions. 
Steady-state conditions 
Steady-state is achieved after 10 days. Cmax of drospirenone of about 48.7 ng/mL is reached after about 
1-3 hours after dosing. The mean concentration during steady state over a 24-hour dosing period is 
approximately 22 ng/mL. The accumulation is very limited with daily AUC at steady-state 80% larger 
than after a single dose.  
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No studies were performed to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the pharmacokinetics of estetrol. 
In a study performed with drospirenone 3 mg alone administered orally for 14 days, steady-state serum 
drospirenone levels in women with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
(CLcr)=50-80 mL/min) were comparable to those of women with normal renal function. The serum 
drospirenone levels were on average 37% higher in women with moderate renal impairment 
(CLcr=30-50 mL/min) compared with those in women with normal renal function. 
Hepatic impairment 
No studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of 
estetrol. In a single dose study, oral clearance of drospirenone (CL/F) was decreased approximately 
50% in volunteers with moderate hepatic impairment as compared to those with normal liver function. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of estetrol and drospirenone in postmenarcheal female adolescents (below 
16 years of age) after intake of Lydisilka have not been investigated.  
Other special populations 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ethnic groups 
No clinically relevant differences in the pharmacokinetics of estetrol or drospirenone between 
Japanese and Caucasian women have been observed after single dose administration of Lydisilka. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeated dose toxicity studies with estetrol, drospirenone or the combination have indicated expected 
estrogenic and gestagen effects. 
At exposures exceeding those in users of Lydisilka (~27-fold multiple for estetrol and ~3.5-fold 
multiple for drospirenone), ventricular histological changes, without clinical effects, were observed in 
monkeys after repeated administration of the combination.  
Reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits performed with estetrol have shown embryotoxic and 
fetotoxic effects in animals at clinically relevant exposures; the effects possibly dependent on 
uterotonic effects in late gestation.  
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with the combination. Estetrol and 
drospirenone are not considered to be genotoxic. However, it is known that due to their hormonal 
action, sex steroids can promote the growth of certain hormone-dependent tissues and tumours. 
Environmental risk assessment  studies with drospirenone have shown that drospirenone may pose a 
risk to the aquatic environment (see section 6.6). Environmental risk assessment studies with estetrol 
including the Japanese medaka fish extended one generation reproduction test indicated that the 
predicted environmental exposure to estetrol will not affect the aquatic ecosystem. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Pink active film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Sodium starch glycolate 
Maize starch 
Povidone K30 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Tablet coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463) 
Talc (E553b) 
Cottonseed oil, hydrogenated 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
White placebo film-coated tablets 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Maize starch 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Tablet coating 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463) 
Talc (E553b) 
Cottonseed oil, hydrogenated 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Transparent  PVC/aluminium  blister  containing  28 film-coated  tablets  (24 pink  active  tablets  and 
4 white placebo tablets) in a carton with an etui storage bag and 1, 3, 6 or 13 self-adhesive weekday 
sticker(s). 
Pack sizes: 28 (1 × 28), 84 (3 × 28), 168 (6 × 28) and 364 (13 × 28) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Drospirenone containing medicinal products may pose a risk to the environment (see section  5.3).  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Estetra SRL 
Rue Saint Georges 5-7 
4000 Liège 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1548/001 
EU/1/21/1548/002 
EU/1/21/1548/003 
EU/1/21/1548/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19.05.2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
22 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Haupt Pharma Münster GmbH 
Schleebrüggenkamp 15 
48159 Münster 
Germany 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this medicinal product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of Lydisilka in each Member State, the MAH will agree about the content and 
format of the educational material, including communication media, distribution modalities and any 
other aspects of the programme with the National Competent Authority.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The educational materials are aimed at providing guidance on how to manage risk of thromboembolic 
events. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Lydisilka is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense or use the product have 
access to: 
• 
• 
Prescriber’s checklist; 
Information card for women. 
The prescriber’s checklist should aim at initiating a discussion between the prescriber and woman to 
assess their suitability to receive Lydisilka, particularly with respect to the presence of any 
contraindications or risk factors for thromboembolic events.  
The prescriber’s checklist should contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
points to cover in the consultation (risk of thromboembolism with the CHC, effect of 
intrinsic risk factors, to be alert for signs and symptoms of a thrombosis); 
checklist of contraindications; 
checklist for risk factors; 
reminder to inform women of situations when the risk of thromboembolism is increased 
and to advise women to tell healthcare professionals that they are taking a CHC. 
The Information card for women is provided as part of the product packaging, the text of which is 
included in Annex III. The Information card for women aims to provide women with information on 
the risk of thromboembolism associated with combined oral contraceptive pills, the known risk factors, 
as well as signs and symptoms of venous and arterial thromboembolism and to emphasize the 
significance of the early detection of any thromboembolic event.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lydisilka 3 mg/14.2 mg film-coated tablets 
drospirenone/estetrol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each  pink  active  tablet  contains  3 mg  drospirenone  and  estetrol  monohydrate  equivalent  to  14.2 mg 
estetrol. 
Each white placebo (inactive) tablet does not contain active substances. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose monohydrate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
28 (1 x 28) film-coated tablets 
84 (3 x 28) film-coated tablets 
168 (6 x 28) film-coated tablets 
364 (13 x 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Estetra SRL 
Rue Saint Georges 5-7 
4000 Liège 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1548/001 
EU/1/21/1548/002 
EU/1/21/1548/003 
EU/1/21/1548/004 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lydisilka 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lydisilka 3 mg/14.2 mg tablets 
drospirenone/estetrol 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Estetra SRL 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Start 
1 → 2 → 3 → 4 → 5 → … → 28 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON STICKER 
STICKER 
Choose the day sticker that starts with the first day of your pill intake and place it in the frame on the 
” symbol. 
front of the blister card on the “
Each day will line up with the rows of pills. 
If you miss a pill, refer to your package leaflet. 
MO 
TU  WE 
TH 
WE 
FR 
TH 
SA 
FR 
SU 
SA 
MO 
SU 
TU   WE  
TH 
FR 
SA 
SU 
MO 
TU  WE 
TH  
FR 
SA 
SU 
MO 
TU  WE 
TH 
FR  
SA 
SU 
MO 
TU  WE 
TH 
FR 
SU  
SA  
MO 
SU 
MO 
TU 
TU  WE 
TH 
FR 
SA 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INFORMATION CARD FOR WOMEN 
INFORMATION CARD FOR WOMEN 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT LYDISILKA AND RISK OF BLOOD CLOTS 
All combined contraceptives like Lydisilka increase the risk of having a blood clot. The overall risk of a 
blood clot due to Lydisilka is small but clots can be serious and may in very rare cases even be fatal.  
It is very important that you recognise when you might be at greater risk of a blood clot, what signs and 
symptoms you need to look out for and what action you need to take. 
In which situations is the risk of a blood clot highest? 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
in the first year of using Lydisilka (including if you are re-starting use after a break of 4 weeks or 
more)  
if you are very overweight 
if you are older than 35 years 
if you have a family member who has had a blood clot at a relatively young age (eg below 50) 
if you have given birth in the previous few weeks   
If you smoke and are over 35 years old you are strongly advised to stop smoking or use a non-hormonal 
method of contraception. 
Seek medical attention immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms: 
•  Severe pain or swelling in either of your legs that may be accompanied by tenderness, warmth or 
changes in the skin colour such as turning pale, red or blue. You may be experiencing a deep vein 
thrombosis. 
•  Sudden unexplained breathlessness or rapid breathing; severe pain in the chest which may increase 
with deep breathing; sudden cough without an obvious cause (which may bring up blood). You 
may be experiencing a serious complication of deep vein thrombosis called a pulmonary 
embolism. This occurs if the blood clot travels from the leg to the lung. 
•  Chest pain, often acute, but sometimes just discomfort, pressure, heaviness, upper body discomfort 
radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm together with a feeling of fullness associated with 
indigestion or choking, sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness.  You may be experiencing a heart 
attack. 
•  Face, arm or leg weakness or numbness, especially on one side of the body; trouble speaking or 
understanding; sudden confusion; sudden loss of vision or blurred vision; severe 
headache/migraine that is worse than normal.  You may be experiencing a stroke. 
Watch out for symptoms of a blood clot, especially if you have: 
• 
• 
• 
just had an operation 
been off your feet for a long time (eg. because of an injury or illness, or if your leg is in a cast)  
a long journey (more than about 4 hours) 
Remember to tell your doctor, nurse or surgeon that you are taking Lydisilka if you: 
• 
• 
are due to or have had surgery 
are in any situation when a healthcare professional asks you if you are taking any medications 
For further information please read the accompanying Patient Information Leaflet or go to [NCA web 
address]. 
If you suspect you have an undesirable effect associated with the use of your CHC, you can report it to a 
Healthcare professional or according to your national reporting requirements. 
32 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Lydisilka 3 mg/14.2 mg film-coated tablets 
drospirenone/estetrol 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Important things to know about combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs): 
• 
• 
They are one of the most reliable reversible methods of contraception if used correctly. 
They slightly increase the risk of having a blood clot in the veins and arteries, especially in the 
first year or when restarting a combined hormonal contraceptive following a break of 4 or more 
weeks. 
Please be alert and see your doctor if you think you may have symptoms of a blood clot (see 
section 2 ‘Blood clots’). 
• 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Lydisilka is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Lydisilka 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Lydisilka 
Possible side effects 
How to store Lydisilka 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Lydisilka is and what it is used for 
Lydisilka is a contraceptive pill that is used to prevent pregnancy. 
- 
The 24 pink film-coated tablets are active tablets that contain a small amount of two different 
female hormones, namely estetrol and drospirenone. 
The 4 white film-coated tablets are inactive tablets that do not contain hormones and are called 
placebo tablets. 
Contraceptive pills that contain two different hormones, like Lydisilka, are called ‘combination’ 
or ‘combined’ pills. They work together to prevent ovulation (release of an egg from the ovary) 
and to reduce the chance of any released egg being fertilised and making you pregnant. 
- 
- 
2.  What you need to know before you take Lydisilka 
General notes 
Before your start taking Lydisilka, you should read the information on blood clots in section 2. It is 
particularly important to read the symptoms of a blood clot – see section 2 ‘Blood clots’.  
Before you can begin taking Lydisilka, your doctor will ask you some questions about your personal 
health history and that of your close relatives. The doctor will also measure your blood pressure and, 
depending upon your personal situation, may also carry out some other tests. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this leaflet, several situations are described where you should stop taking the pill, or where the 
reliability of the pill may be decreased. In such situations, you should not have sexual intercourse or 
you should take extra non-hormonal contraceptive precautions, e.g., use a condom or another barrier 
method. Do not use rhythm or temperature methods. These methods can be unreliable because the pill 
alters the usual changes in temperature and cervical mucus that occur during the menstrual cycle. 
Lydisilka, like other hormonal contraceptives, does not prevent against human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, AIDS) or any 
other sexually transmitted disease. 
Do not take Lydisilka 
You should not take Lydisilka if you have any of the conditions listed below. If you do have any of the 
conditions listed below, you must tell your doctor. Your doctor will discuss with you what other form 
of birth control would be more appropriate. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have (or have ever had) a blood clot in a blood vessel of your legs (deep vein thrombosis, 
DVT), your lungs (pulmonary embolus, PE) or other organs; 
if you know you have a disorder affecting your blood clotting – for instance, protein C 
deficiency, protein S deficiency, antithrombin-III deficiency, factor V Leiden or 
antiphospholipid antibodies; 
if you need an operation or if you are off your feet for a long time (see section ‘Blood clots’); 
if you have ever had a heart attack or a stroke; 
if you have (or have ever had) angina pectoris (a condition that causes severe chest pain and 
may be a first sign of a heart attack) or transient ischaemic attack (TIA – temporary stroke 
symptoms); 
if you have any of the following diseases that may increase your risk of a clot in the arteries: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have (or have ever had) a type of migraine called ‘migraine with aura’; 
if you have (or have ever had) a tumour in the liver (benign or malignant); 
if you have (or have ever had) a liver disease and your liver function is still not normal; 
if your kidneys are not working well (renal failure); 
if you have (or have ever had) or if you are suspected of having breast cancer or cancer of the 
genital organs; 
if you have any unexplained bleeding from the vagina; 
if you are allergic to estetrol or drospirenone, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6).  
severe diabetes with blood vessel damage; 
very high blood pressure; 
a very high level of  fat in the blood (cholesterol or triglycerides); 
a condition known as hyperhomocysteinaemia; 
If any of these conditions appear for the first time while using Lydisilka, stop taking it immediately 
and tell your doctor. In the meantime, use a non-hormonal contraceptive. See also ‘General notes’ in 
section 2 above. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Lydisilka. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When should you contact your doctor? 
Seek urgent medical attention 
• 
if you notice possible signs of a blood clot that may mean you are suffering from a blood clot in 
the leg (i.e. deep vein thrombosis), a blood clot in the lung (i.e. pulmonary embolism), a heart 
attack or a stroke (see ‘Blood clots’ section below). 
For a description of the symptoms of these serious side effects please go to ‘How to recognise a blood 
clot’. 
Tell your doctor if any of the following conditions apply to you 
If the condition develops, or gets worse while you are taking Lydisilka, you should also tell your 
doctor: 
- 
- 
if a close relative has or has ever had breast cancer; 
if you have hereditary or acquired angioedema. Medicines containing oestrogens may induce or 
worsen symptoms of angioedema. See your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms of 
angioedema such as swollen face, tongue and/or throat and/or difficulty swallowing or hives, 
together with difficulty breathing; 
if you have a liver disease or the gallbladder disease; 
if you have diabetes; 
if you have depression; 
if you have epilepsy (see section 2 ‘Other medicines and Lydisilka’); 
if you have Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis (chronic inflammatory bowel disease); 
if you have systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE – a disease affecting your natural defence 
system); 
if you have haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS – a disorder of blood clotting causing failure of 
the kidneys); 
if you have sickle cell anaemia (an inherited disease of the red blood cells); 
if you have elevated levels of fat in the blood (hypertriglyceridaemia) or a positive family 
history for this condition. Hypertriglyceridaemia has been associated with an increased risk of 
developing pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas); 
if you need an operation, or you are off your feet for a long time (see section 2 ‘Blood clots’); 
if you have just given birth you are at an increased risk of blood clots. You should ask your 
doctor how soon after delivery you can start taking Lydisilka; 
if you have an inflammation in the veins under the skin (superficial thrombophlebitis); 
if you have varicose veins; 
if you have or have ever had chloasma (a discolouration of the skin especially of the face or 
neck known as ‘pregnancy patches’). In this case, avoid direct exposure to sunlight or 
ultraviolet light. 
if you have a disease that first appeared during pregnancy or earlier use of sex hormones (for 
example, hearing loss, a blood disease called porphyria, skin rash with blisters during pregnancy 
[gestational herpes], a nerve disease causing sudden movements of the body [Sydenham’s 
chorea]). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
BLOOD CLOTS 
Using a combined hormonal contraceptive such as Lydisilka increases your risk of developing a blood 
clot compared with not using one. In rare cases, a blood clot can block blood vessels and cause serious 
problems. 
Blood clots can develop 
- 
- 
in veins (referred to as a ‘venous thrombosis’, ‘venous thromboembolism’ or VTE) 
in the arteries (referred to as an ‘arterial thrombosis’, ‘arterial thromboembolism’ or ATE). 
Recovery from blood clots is not always complete. Rarely, there may be serious lasting effects or, very 
rarely, they may be fatal. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important to remember that the overall risk of a harmful blood clot due to Lydisilka is 
small. 
HOW TO RECOGNISE A BLOOD CLOT 
Seek urgent medical attention if you notice any of the following signs or symptoms. 
What are you possibly 
suffering from? 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Are you experiencing any of these signs? 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
swelling of one leg or along a vein in the leg or foot especially 
when accompanied by: 
-  pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only when 
standing or walking 
increased warmth in the affected leg 
- 
-  change in colour of the skin on the leg e.g. turing pale, red or 
blue 
sudden unexplained breathlessness or rapid breathing; 
sudden cough without an obvious cause, which may bring up 
blood; 
sharp chest pain which may increase with deep breathing; 
severe light headedness or dizziness; 
rapid or irregular heartbeat; 
severe pain in your stomach; 
If you are unsure, talk to a doctor as some of these symptoms such as 
coughing or being short of breath may be mistaken for a milder 
condition such as a respiratory tract infection (e.g. a ‘common cold’). 
Symptoms most commonly occur in one eye: 
- 
immediate loss of vision or 
painless blurring of vision which can progress to loss of vision; 
Retinal vein thrombosis 
(blood clot in the eye) 
-  chest pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness; 
- 
sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm or below the 
breastbone; 
fullness, indigestion or choking feeling; 
- 
-  upper body discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm and 
Heart attack 
stomach; 
sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
- 
-  extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
- 
rapid or irregular heartbeats. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
sudden weakness or numbness of the face, arm or leg, especially 
on one side of the body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or 
coordination; 
sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known cause; 
loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure; 
Stroke 
Sometimes the symptoms of stroke can be brief with an almost 
immediate and full recovery, but you should still seek urgent medical 
attention as you may be at risk of another stroke. 
- 
swelling and slight blue discolouration of an extremity; 
Blood clots blocking other 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
severe pain in your stomach (acute abdomen). 
blood vessels 
BLOOD CLOTS IN A VEIN 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in a vein? 
- 
The use of combined hormonal contraceptives has been connected with an increase in the risk of 
blood clots in the vein (venous thrombosis). However, these side effects are rare. Most 
frequently, they occur in the first year of use of a combined hormonal contraceptive. 
If a blood clot forms in a vein in the leg or foot it can cause a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
If a blood clot travels from the leg and lodges in the lung it can cause a pulmonary embolism. 
Very rarely a clot may form in a vein in another organ such as the eye (retinal vein thrombosis). 
- 
- 
- 
When is the risk of developing a blood clot in a vein highest? 
The risk of developing a blood clot in a vein is highest during the first year of taking combined 
hormonal contraceptive for the first time. The risk may also be higher if you restart taking a combined 
hormonal contraceptive (the same medicine or a different medicine) after a break of 4 weeks or more. 
After the first year, the risk gets smaller but is always slightly higher than if you were not using a 
combined hormonal contraceptive. 
When you stop Lydisilka your risk of a blood clot returns to normal within a few weeks. 
What is the risk of developing a blood clot? 
The risk depends on your natural risk of VTE and the type of combined hormonal contraceptive you 
are taking. 
The overall risk of a blood clot in the leg or lung (DVT or PE) with Lydisilka is small. 
- 
Out of 10,000 women who are not using any combined hormonal contraceptive and are not 
pregnant, about 2 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
Out of 10,000 women who are using a combined hormonal contraceptive that contains low-dose 
ethinylestradiol (<50 microgram ethinylestradiol) combined with levonorgestrel, norethisterone, 
or norgestimate about 5-7 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
It is not yet known how the risk of a blood clot with Lydisilka compares to the risk with a 
combined hormonal contraceptive that contains levonorgestrel. 
The risk of having a blood clot will vary according to your personal medical history (see 
‘Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot’ below). 
- 
- 
- 
Women who are not using a combined hormonal pill/patch/ring 
and are not pregnant 
Women using a combined hormonal contraceptive pill 
containing low-dose ethinylestradiol(<50 microgram 
ethinylestradiol) combined with levonorgestrel, norethisterone 
or norgestimate 
Risk of developing a blood 
clot in a year 
About 2 out of 10,000 women 
About 5-7 out of 10,000 
women 
Women using Lydisilka 
Not yet known  
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in a  vein 
The risk of a blood clot with Lydisilka is small but some conditions will increase the risk. Your risk is 
higher:  
- 
- 
if you are very overweight (body mass index or BMI over 30 kg/m2); 
if one of your immediate family has had a blood clot in the leg, lung or other organ at a young 
age (e.g. below the age of about 50 years). In this case you could have a hereditary blood 
clotting disorder; 
if you need to have an operation, or if you are off your feet for a long time because of an injury 
or illness, or you have your leg in a cast. The use of Lydisilka may need to be stopped several 
- 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weeks before surgery or while you are less mobile. If you need to stop Lydisilka ask your doctor 
when you can start using it again. 
as you get older (particularly above about 35 years); 
if you gave birth less than a few weeks ago. 
- 
- 
The risk of developing a blood clot increases the more conditions you have. 
Air travel (> 4 hours) may temporarily increase your risk of a blood clot, particularly if you have some 
of the other factors listed. 
It is important to tell your doctor if any of these conditions apply to you, even if you are unsure. Your 
doctor may decide that Lydisilka needs to be stopped. 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using Lydisilka, for example a close family 
member experiences a thrombosis for no known reason; or you gain a lot of weight, tell your doctor. 
BLOOD CLOTS IN AN ARTERY 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in an artery? 
Like a blood clot in a vein, a clot in an artery can cause serious problems. For example, it can cause a 
heart attack or a stroke. 
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in an artery 
It is important to note that the risk of a heart attack or stroke from using Lydisilka is very small but 
can increase: 
- 
- 
with increasing age (beyond about 35 years); 
if you smoke. When using a combined hormonal contraceptive like Lydisilka, you are advised 
to stop smoking. If you are unable to stop smoking and are older than 35 years your doctor may 
advise you to use a different type of contraceptive; 
if you are overweight; 
if you have high blood pressure; 
if a member of your immeddiate family has had a heart attack or stroke at a young age (less than 
about 50 years). In this case you could also have a higher risk of having a heart attack or stroke; 
if you, or someone in your immediate family, have a high level of fat in the blood (cholesterol 
or triglycerides); 
if you get migraines, especially migraines with aura; 
if you have a problem with your heart (valve disorder, disturbance of the rhythm called atrial 
fibrillation); 
if you have diabetes. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have more than one of these conditions or if any of them are particularly severe the risk of 
developing a blood clot may be increased even more. 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using Lydisilka, for example you start smoking, a 
close family member experiences a thrombosis for no known reason; or you gain a lot of weight, tell 
your doctor. 
Cancer 
Breast cancer has been observed slightly more often in women using combination pills, but it is not 
known whether this is caused by the treatment. For example, it may be that tumours are detected more 
in women on combination pills because they are examined by their doctor more often. After stopping 
the combination pill, the increased risk gradually reduces. It is important to check your breasts 
regularly and you should contact your doctor if you feel any lump. You should also tell your doctor if 
a close relative has, or ever had breast cancer (see section 2 ‘Warnings and precautions’). 
In rare cases, benign (noncancerous) liver tumours, and in even fewer cases malignant (cancerous) 
liver tumours have been reported in pill users. Contact your doctor if you have unusual severe 
abdominal pain. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cervical cancer is caused by an infection with the human papilloma virus (HPV). It has been reported 
to occur more often in women using the pill for more than 5 years. It is unknown if this finding is due 
to the use of homonal contraceptives or to other factors, such as difference in sexual behaviour. 
Psychiatric disorders 
Some women using hormonal contraceptives including Lydisilka have reported depression or 
depressed mood. Depression can be serious and may sometimes lead to suicidal thoughts. If you 
experience mood changes and depressive symptoms contact your doctor for further medical advice as 
soon as possible. 
Bleeding between periods 
Your period will normally start while you are taking the white placebo tablets in the Lydisilka pack. 
During the first few month that you are taking Lydisilka, you may have unexpected bleeding (bleeding 
outside the placebo days). Mostly this bleeding is mild and usually not requiring any sanitary 
protection. If this bleeding occurs for more than a few months, or if it begins after some months, your 
doctor must find out what is wrong.  
What you must do if no bleeding occurs during the placebo days 
If you have taken all the pink active tablets correctly, have not had vomiting or severe diarrhoea and 
you have not taken any other medicines, it is highly unlikely that you are pregnant. Keep taking 
Lydisilka as usual. 
If you have not taken all the tablets correctly, or if  the expected bleeding does not happen twice in 
succession, you may be pregnant. Contact your doctor immediately. Only start the next strip if you are 
sure that you are not pregnant. See also in section 3 ‘If you vomit or have severe diarrhoea’ or in 
section 2 ‘Other medicines and Lydisilka’. 
Children and adolescents 
Lydisilka is only indicated after menarche (the first menstrual period). No data on efficacy and safety 
are available in adolescents below 16 years. 
Other medicines and Lydisilka 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Also tell any other doctor or dentist who prescribes another medicine (or the pharmacist) 
that you take Lydisilka. They can tell you if you need to take additional contraceptive precautions (for 
example using condoms) and if so, for how long, or, whether the use of another medicine you need 
must be changed. 
Some medicines can have an influence on the blood levels of Lydisilka and can make it less effective 
in preventing pregnancy, or can cause unexpected bleeding. These include medicines used for the 
treatment of: 
- 
epilepsy (e.g. barbiturate, carbamazepine, phenytoin, primidone, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, 
topiramate); 
tuberculosis (e.g. rifampicin); 
HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections (e.g. so-called protease inhibitors and 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors such as, ritonavir, nevirapine, efavirenz); 
fungal infections (e.g. griseofulvin); 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs (e.g. bosentan). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The herbal product St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may also stop Lydisilka from working 
properly. If you want to use herbal products containing St. John’s wort while you are already using 
Lydisilka you should consult your doctor first. 
If you are taking these medicines or herbal products that might make Lydisilka less effective, a barrier 
contraceptive method should also be used. The barrier method must be used during the whole time of 
the  concomitant  medicine  therapy  and  for  28 days  after  its  discontinuation  If  the  concomitant  
medicine therapy runs beyond the end of the pink active tablets in the current pack, the white placebo 
tablets must be discarded and the next pack of Lydisilka should be started right away. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If  long-term  treatment  with  the  above  mentioned  medicines  is  necessary,  you  should  use  non-
hormonal contraceptive methods. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
Lydisilka may influence the effect of other medicines, e.g.: 
- 
ciclosporin (medicine used for the treatment of suppression of tissue rejection following 
transplant surgery); 
lamotrigine (medicine used for the treatment of epilepsy). 
- 
The HCV combination therapeutic regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir and dasabuvir with or 
without ribavirin as well as regimen glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir 
may cause increases in liver function blood test results (increase in ALT liver enzyme) in women 
using CHCs containing ethinylestradiol. Lydisilka contains estetrol instead of ethinylestradiol. It is not 
known whether an increase in ALT liver enzyme can occur when using Lydisilka with these HCV 
combination therapeutic regimens. Your doctor will advise you. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Laboratory tests 
If you are having any blood or urinary test, tell your doctor that you are using Lydisilka as it may 
affect the results of some tests. 
Lydisilka with food and drink 
Lydisilka may be taken with or without food, if necessary with a small amount of water. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Lydisilka must not be taken by women who are pregnant, or think they may be pregnant.  
If you become pregnant while taking Lydisilka you should stop taking Lydisilka immediately and 
contact your doctor.  
If you want to become pregnant, you can stop taking Lydisilka at any time (see section 3 ‘If you stop 
taking Lydisilka’). 
Lydisilka is not recommended during breast-feeding. If you wish to take the pill while breast-feeding, 
you should contact your doctor. 
Driving and using machines 
Lydisilka has no or negligible effect on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Lydisilka contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
The pink active tablet contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
3. 
How to take Lydisilka 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
When and how to take the tablets 
The Lydisilka blister contains 28 film-coated tablets: 24 pink active tablets with the active substances 
(number 1-24) and 4 white placebo tablets without active substances (number 25-28). 
Each time you start a new blister of Lydisilka, take the number 1 pink active tablet (see ‘Start’). 
Choose from the 7 weekday stickers, the one that begins with your starting day. For example, if you 
start on a Wednesday, use the day label sticker that starts with ‘Wed’. Place it in the frame on the front 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the blister card on the “ ” symbol. Each day will line up with a row of pills. This allows you to 
check whether you took your daily tablet. 
Take one tablet each day at about the same time, with some water if necessary. 
Follow the direction of the arrows on the blister, so take the pink active tablets first and then the white 
placebo tablets. 
Your period will start during the 4 days that you take the white placebo tablets (so-called withdrawal 
bleeding). Usually it will start 2 to 4 days after the last pink active tablet intake and may not have 
finished before the next blister is started. 
Start taking your next blister immediately after the last white placebo tablet, even if your period has 
not finished. This means that you will always start a new blister on the same day of the week, and also 
that you have your period on roughly the same days each month. 
Some users may not have their period every month during the intake of the white placebo tablets. If 
you have taken Lydisilka every day according to these instructions, it is unlikely that you are pregnant. 
Starting your first pack of Lydisilka 
If you have not used a contraceptive with hormones in the previous month  
Begin with Lydisilka on the first day of the cycle (that is the first day of your period). If you start 
Lydisilka on the first day of your menstruation you are immediately protected against pregnancy.  
You may also begin on day 2-5 of the cycle, but then you must use extra protective measures (for 
example, a condom) for the first 7 days of tablet-taking.  
Changing from a combined hormonal contraceptive, or combined contraceptive vaginal ring or patch 
You can start Lydisilka preferably on the day after the last active tablet (the last tablet containing the 
active substances) of your previous pill, but at the latest on the day after the tablet-free days of your 
previous pill finish (or after the last inactive tablet of your previous pill). When changing from a 
combined contraceptive vaginal ring or patch, follow the advice of your doctor. 
Changing from a progestogen-only-method (progestogen-only pill, injection, implant or a 
progestogen-releasing Intra-Uterine Device [IUD]) 
You may switch any day from the progestogen-only pill (from an implant or an IUD on the day of its 
removal, from an injectable when the next injection would be due) but in all of these cases you must 
use extra protective measures (for example, a condom) for the first 7 consecutive days of tablet-taking. 
After a miscarriage or an artificial abortion  
Follow the advice of your doctor. 
After having a baby 
You can start Lydisilka between 21 and 28 days after having a baby. If you start later than day 28, you 
must use a barrier method (for example, a condom) during the first 7 days of Lydisilka use. If, after 
having a baby, you have had sex before starting Lydisilka, you must first be sure that you are not 
pregnant or you must wait until your next period.  
If you are breast-feeding and want to start Lydisilka (again) after having a baby 
Read the section on “Breast-feeding”. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist what to do if you are not sure when to start. 
If you take more Lydisilka than you should 
There are no reports of serious harmful results of taking too many Lydisilka tablets. 
If you take several tablets at once, then you may feel sick or vomit or bleed from the vagina. Even 
girls who have not yet started to menstruate but have accidentally taken this medicine may experience 
such bleeding. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have taken too many Lydisilka tablets, or you discover that a child has taken some, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice.  
If you forget to take Lydisilka 
The last 4 white tablets of the strip are the placebo tablets. If you forget one of these tablets, this has 
no effect on the reliability of Lydisilka. Throw away the forgotten white placebo tablet. 
If you miss a pink, active tablet (tablets 1-24 of your blister-strip), you must do the following: 
• 
if you are less than 24 hours late taking a pink active tablet, the protection against pregnancy is 
not reduced. Take the tablet as soon as possible and then take the following tablets again at the 
usual time. 
• 
if you are more than 24 hours late taking a pink active tablet, the protection against pregnancy 
may be reduced. The greater the number of tablets that you have forgotten, the greater is the risk 
of becoming pregnant.  
The risk of incomplete protection against pregnancy is greatest if you forget a pink active tablet at the 
beginning or at the end of the strip. Therefore, you should keep to the following rules (see also the 
diagram): 
More than one tablet forgotten in this strip:  
Contact your doctor. 
One pink active tablet forgotten between days 1-7  
Take the forgotten tablet as soon as possible, even if that means that you have to take two tablets at the 
same time. Continue taking the tablets at the usual time and use extra precautions, for example, a 
condom, for the next 7 days while taking the tablets correctly. If you have had sex in the week before 
forgetting the tablet you must realize that there is a risk of a pregnancy. In that case, contact your 
doctor. 
One pink active  tablet forgotten between  days 8-17  
Take the forgotten tablet as soon as possible, even if that means that you have to take two tablets at the 
same time. Continue taking the tablets at the usual time. The protection against pregnancy is not 
reduced, and you do not need to take extra precautions. 
One pink active tablet forgotten between days 18-24  
You can choose between two possibilities: 
1. 
Take the forgotten tablet as soon as possible, even if that means that you have to take two 
tablets at the same time. Continue taking the tablets at the usual time. Instead of taking the white 
placebo tablets on this strip, throw them away, and start the next strip (the starting day will be 
different). 
Most likely, you will have a period at the end of the second strip - while taking the white 
placebo tablets - but you may have light or menstruation-like bleeding during the second strip. 
2. 
You can also stop the pink active tablets and go directly to the 4 white placebo tablets Before 
taking the white placebo tablets, record the day on which you forgot your tablet. The placebo 
period should not exceed 4 days.).). If you want to start a new strip on the day you always start, 
take the white placebo tablets for less than 4 days. 
If you follow one of these two recommendations, you will remain protected against pregnancy. 
If you have forgotten any of the tablets in a strip, and you do not have a bleeding during the placebo 
days, this may mean that you are pregnant. You must contact your doctor before you start the next 
strip. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule if you are more than 24 hours late taking pink active tablets 
More  than  1 pink active 
tablet forgotten in 1 strip 
• Ask your doctor for advice 
YES 
Day 1-7 
• Had sex in the previous week before forgetting? 
NO 
• Take the forgotten tablet 
• Use additional barrier methods (condom) for the 
following 7 days 
• Finish the strip 
Only  1  pink  active 
tablet  forgotten  (taken 
more  than  24  hours 
late) 
Day 8-17 
• Take the forgotten tablet  
• Finish the strip 
• Take the forgotten tablet and 
• Finish taking the pink active tablets  
• Throw away the 4 white placebo tablets  
• Start the next strip 
Day 18-24 
OR 
• Stop the pink active tablets immediately 
• Go directly to the 4 white placebo tablets  
• Then start the next strip  
More than one tablet forgotten in this strip 
Follow the advice of your doctor. 
If you vomit or have severe diarrhoea 
If you vomit within 3-4 hours of taking a pink active tablet or you have severe diarrhoea, there is a risk 
that the active substances in the pill will not be fully taken up by your body. The situation is almost the 
same as forgetting a tablet. After vomiting or diarrhoea, you must take another pink active tablet from 
a reserve strip as soon as possible. If possible take it within 24 hours of when you normally take your 
pill. If this is not possible or 24 hours have passed, you should follow the advice given under ‘If you 
forget to take Lydisilka’.  
Delaying your period: what you need to know 
Even if it is not recommended, you can delay your period by not taking the white placebo tablets from 
the 4th row and going straight to a new strip of Lydisilka and finishing it. You may experience light or 
menstruation-like bleeding while using this second strip. Finish this second strip by taking the 4 white 
placebo tablets. Then start your next strip. You might ask your doctor for advice before deciding to 
delay your menstrual period. 
If you want to change the starting day of your period 
If you take the tablets according to the instructions, then your period will begin during the placebo 
days. If you have to change this day, reduce the number of placebo days – when you take the white 
placebo tablets – but never increase them (4 is the maximum). For example, if you start taking the 
white placebo tablets on Friday, and you want to change this to a Tuesday (3 days earlier) you must 
start a new blister 3 days earlier than usual. You may not have any bleeding during the shortened 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period of white placebo tablet intake. While using the next blister you may have some spotting (drops 
or flecks of blood) or breakthrough bleeding on pink active tablet -taking days. 
If you are not sure what to do, speak with your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you stop taking Lydisilka 
You can stop taking Lydisilka at any time. If you do not want to become pregnant, first ask your doctor 
about other methods of birth control. 
If you stop taking Lydisilka because you want to get pregnant,  it is best to wait until you have had a 
natural period before trying to become pregnant. This will help you to calculate the expected delivery 
date more easily. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. If you get 
any side effect, particularly if severe and persistent, or have any change to your health that you think 
may be due to Lydisilka, please talk to your doctor. 
An increased risk of blood clots in your veins (VTE) or blood clots in your arteries (ATE) is present 
for all women taking combined hormonal contraceptives. For more detailed information on the 
different risks from taking combined hormonal contraceptives please see section 2 ‘What you need to 
know before you take Lydisilka’. 
The followig side effects have been linked with the use of Lydisilka: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
mood disorder and disturbance, libido disorder;  
headache; 
abdominal pain, nausea; 
acne; 
breast pain, painful periods, vaginal bleeding (during or outside periods, heavy irregular 
bleeding); 
weight fluctuation.  
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
fungal infection, vaginal infection, urinary tract infection; 
changes in appetite (appetite disorder);  
depression, emotional disorder, anxiety disorder, stress, problems sleeping; 
migraine, dizziness, ‘pins and needles’, drowsiness; 
hot flush; 
abdominal (belly) swelling, vomiting, diarrhoea; 
hair loss, excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis), dry skin, rash, skin swelling;   
back pain; 
swollen breasts, lumps in the breast, abnormal genital bleeding, pain with intercourse, 
fibrocystic breast disease (presence of one or more cysts in a breast), heavy periods, no periods, 
menstrual disorders, premenstrual syndrome, contractions of the uterus, uterine or vaginal 
bleeding including spotting, vaginal discharge, vulvovaginal disorder (dryness, pain, odour, 
discomfort); 
fatigue, swelling of parts of your body e.g. ankles (oedema), chest pain, feeling abnormal; 
blood tests showing increased liver enzymes, changes in certain blood fats (lipids).  
- 
- 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
- 
- 
breast inflammation;  
benign breast mass;  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
hypersensitivity (allergy); 
fluid retention, increased potassium levels in the blood; 
nervousness;  
forgetfulness;  
dry eye, visual blurring, visual impairment; 
giddiness; 
high or low blood pressure, inflammation of a vein with the formation of a blood clot 
(thrombophlebitis), varicose vein; 
constipation, dry mouth, indigestion, lip swelling, flatulence, bowel inflammation, gastric reflux, 
abnormal bowel contractions; 
allergic skin reactions, golden brown pigment patches (chloasma) and other pigmentation 
disorders, male pattern hair growth, excessive hair growth, skin conditions such as dermatitis 
and itchy dermatitis, dandruff and oily skin (seborrhoea) and other skin disorders; 
muscle and joint cramps, pain and discomfort; 
urinary tract pain, abnormal urine smell; 
pregnancy that occurs outside the womb (ectopic pregnancy); 
ovarian cyst, increased spontaneous milk flow, pelvic pain, breast discolouration, bleeding 
during intercourse, endometrial disorders, nipple disorders, abnormal uterine bleeding;   
malaise and feeling generally unwell, increase in body temperature, pain;  
incease in blood pressure, changes in  blood tests (abnormal kidney function test, increased 
blood potassium, increased blood glucose, decreased haemoglobin, decresed iron stores in 
blood, blood in urine); 
harmful blood clots in a vein for example: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
in a leg or foot (i.e. DVT) 
in a lung (i.e. PE) 
heart attack 
stroke 
mini-stroke or temporary stroke-like symptoms, known as a transient ischaemic attack 
(TIA) 
blood clots in the liver, stomach/intestine, kidneys or eye 
- 
The chance of having a blood clot may be higher if you have any other condition that increase 
this risk (see section 2 for more information on the conditions that increase the risk for blood 
clots and the symptoms of a blood clot). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lydisilka 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lydisilka contains  
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substances are drospirenone and estetrol. 
Each pink active tablet contains 3 mg drospirenone and estetrol monohydrate equivalent to 14.2 mg 
estetrol . 
Each white placebo tablet does not contain active substances. 
The other excipients are: 
Pink active film-coated tablets: 
Tablet core: 
Lactose monohydrate (see section 2 ‘Lydisilka contains lactose and sodium’), sodium starch glycolate 
(see section 2 ‘Lydisilka contains lactose and sodium ’), maize starch, povidone K30, magnesium 
stearate (E470b). 
Tablet coating: 
Hypromellose (E464), hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), talc (E553b), cottonseed oil, hydrogenated, 
titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide red (E172). 
White placebo film-coated tablets: 
Tablet core: 
Lactose monohydrate (see section 2 ‘Lydisilka contains lactose and sodium’), maize starch, 
magnesium stearate (E470b). 
Tablet coating: 
Hypromellose (E464), hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), talc (E553b), cottonseed oil hydrogenated, 
titanium dioxide (E171). 
What Lydisilka looks like and contents of the pack 
The active film-coated tablets are pink, 6 mm diameter, round, biconvex with a drop-shaped logo 
embossed on one side. 
The placebo film-coated tablets are white to off-white, 6 mm diameter, round, biconvex with a drop-
shaped logo embossed on one side. 
Lydisilka is presented in blisters of 28 film-coated tablets (24 pink active tablets and 4 white placebo 
tablets) packed in a carton. In addition to the blister(s), the Lydisilka box contains an etui-storage bag 
and 1, 3, 6, or 13 self-adhesive sticker(s) marked with days of the weeks. The numbers of self-
adhesive stickers depend on the number of blisters.  
Pack sizes: 28 (1 × 28), 84 (3 × 28), 168 (6 × 28) and 364 (13 × 28) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Estetra SRL 
Rue Saint Georges 5-7 
4000 Liège 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Haupt Pharma Münster GmbH 
Schleebrüggenkamp 15 
48159 Münster 
Germany 
Gedeon Richter Plc. 
Gyömrői út 19-21 
1103 Budapest 
Hungary 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Ceres Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)9 296 47 70 
info@ceres-pharma.com 
България 
Estetra SRL 
Teл.: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Česká republika 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Danmark 
Estetra SRL 
Tlf: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Deutschland 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Eesti 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Ελλάδα 
Estetra SRL 
Τηλ: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
España 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
France 
Estetra SRL 
Tél: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Hrvatska 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Ireland 
Estetra SRL 
Lietuva 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Ceres Pharma 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)9 296 47 70 
info@ceres-pharma.com 
Magyarország 
Estetra SRL 
Tel.: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Malta 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Nederland 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Norge 
Estetra SRL 
Tlf: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Österreich 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Polska 
Estetra SRL 
Tel.: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Portugal 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
România 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Slovenija 
Estetra SRL 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Ísland 
Estetra SRL 
Sími: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Italia 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Κύπρος 
Estetra SRL 
Τηλ: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Latvija 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Slovenská republika 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Estetra SRL 
Puh/Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
Sverige 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Estetra SRL 
Tel: +32 (0)4 349 28 22 
infomed@mithra.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
