EMA/342744/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005476
Lyfnua (gefapixant)
An overview of Lyfnua and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Lyfnua and what is it used for?
Lyfnua is a medicine used to treat adults with chronic (long-term) cough which is unexplained or for 
which other treatments have not worked. 
The medicine contains the active substance gefapixant.
How is Lyfnua used?
Lyfnua is available as tablets to be taken by mouth twice a day; it can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
For more information about using Lyfnua, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist.
How does Lyfnua work?
In response to inflammation or airway irritation, cells within the lining of the airways produce high 
levels of a substance called ATP. ATP attaches to specific receptors (targets) on nerve cells in the 
airways, which stimulates the nerves and triggers the urge to cough. The active substance in Lyfnua, 
gefapixant, blocks these receptors and keeps the nerves from triggering the cough reflex.
What benefits of Lyfnua have been shown in studies?
The benefits of Lyfnua were investigated in two main studies involving 1,360 adults with chronic 
cough, who were given Lyfnua or placebo (a dummy treatment). Lyfnua was shown to be more 
effective than placebo at lowering the average number of times patients coughed per hour, measured 
over a 24-hour period. In the first study, after 12 weeks of treatment, the average number of coughs 
per hour in patients given Lyfnua went from 18.2 to 7.1 (a reduction of 61%) compared with a 
decrease from 22.8 to 10.3 (a reduction of 55%) in patients given placebo. In the second study, after 
24 weeks of treatment, the average number of coughs per hour went from 18.6 to 6.8 (a reduction of 
63%) in patients given Lyfnua compared with a decrease from 19.5 to 8.3 (a reduction of 57%) in 
patients given placebo.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
What are the risks associated with Lyfnua?
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Lyfnua, see the package leaflet.
The most common side effects with Lyfnua (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include taste 
disorders: dysgeusia (changes in the sense of taste), ageusia (loss of sense of taste) and hypogeusia 
(reduced sense of taste).
Why is Lyfnua authorised in the EU?
Lyfnua showed a modest effect in terms of reducing the number of daily coughs in patients with 
chronic cough. Side effects with Lyfnua are considered manageable; the most common side effects 
concerned taste disorders and these generally resolved once patients stopped treatment. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Lyfnua’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lyfnua?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lyfnua have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lyfnua are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Lyfnua are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.
Other information about Lyfnua
Lyfnua received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023.
Further information on Lyfnua can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Lyfnua. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2023.
Lyfnua (gefapixant) 
EMA/342744/2023
Page 2/2
