Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary of risk management plan for Lymphoseek (technetium Tc 99m 
tilmanocept) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Lymphoseek. The RMP details important risks 
of  Lymphoseek,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Lymphoseek's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Lymphoseek's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Lymphoseek should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Lymphoseek should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Lymphoseek's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Lymphoseek  is  authorised  for  imaging  and  intraoperative  detection  of  sentinel  lymph  nodes  draining  a 
primary tumour in adult patients with breast cancer, melanoma, or localised squamous cell carcinoma of the 
oral  cavity.  External  imaging  and  intraoperative  evaluation  may  be  performed  using  a  gamma  detection 
device. It contains tilmanocept as the active substance and is a kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation. The 
vial  contains  a  sterile,  non-pyrogenic,  white  to  off-white  lyophilized  powder.  Each  vial  contains  50 
micrograms tilmanocept.  An additional overfill is included in each vial to ensure that 50 micrograms of 
tilmanocept can be delivered. 
Further information about the evaluation of Lymphoseek’s benefits can be found in Lymphoseek’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lymphoseek 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Lymphoseek, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Lymphoseek's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Lymphoseek is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Lymphoseek are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with  the  use  of  Lymphoseek.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
  Failure to detect the sentinel lymph node due to medication 
errors  
  Use in Patients receiving more than one dose 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk - Failure to detect the sentinel lymph node due to medication errors 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Lymphoseek Marketing Authorisation Application, Section 2.5, 
Clinical Overview. 
Lymphoseek  Marketing  Authorisation  Application, 
Summary of Efficacy Supplemental Tables 111 through 122 
Integrated 
A systematic review of the clinical development data from completed 
studies  was  performed  to  identify  significant  deviations  from 
protocol-required  specifications  for  technetium  99m  radiolabelling, 
injection volume and tilmanocept dose. The results indicated 75% of 
the  technetium  99m  radiolabelling  deviations  were  overlabelling, 
with a maximum injected activity of 370 MBq [10 mCi], or 5-times 
the maximum recommended activity for radiolabelling Lymphoseek. 
The remaining 25% representing underlabelling, as compared to the 
protocol  specifications. 
technetium  99m 
represents a tiny fraction of a patient’s exposure to ionising radiation 
from all sources, and is not considered to represent a significant safety 
concern.  Underlabelling is of more concern, as there is potential for 
  Overlabelling  with 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  identifying  metastatic  lymph  nodes  or  having  a  false  negative 
result due to reduced signal from the isotope. 
to  volumes 
Two investigators participating in study NEO3-05 intentionally over-
the  protocol 
diluted  Lymphoseek 
recommendations.  There were no safety issues identified with these 
incidences. 
identified  by 
Lymphoseek and the comparator vital blue dye was noted and led to 
the  conclusion  that  use  of  large  volumes  altered  the  in  vivo 
disposition of Lymphoseek. 
  Discordance  between 
in  excess  of 
the  nodes 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No other safety or efficacy issues were considered to be associated 
with any of the deviations described above. 
Lymphoseek  is  intended  for  use  by  appropriately  qualified  and 
experienced  personnel.    Detailed  instructions  are  provided  for  its 
preparation  and  use  in  the  SmPC.  Additionally,  use  of  lymphatic 
mapping agents is not a new practice and the overall methodology for 
Lymphoseek  is  similar  to  that  used  for  other  agents  already  in 
common use. It was anticipated that the highest risk of medication 
errors  would  be  during  the  launch  of  Lymphoseek  as  pharmacists 
prepared it for the first time and surgeons administered it for the first 
time, and when new staff are subsequently introduced into the teams 
experienced in its use. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The  SmPC  contains  wording  in  Sections  4.2,  4.4,  and  12  which 
provide clear and detailed instructions for the correct preparation and 
use of Lymphoseek. The PIL contains detailed information in Section 
3 which includes information on the administration of Lymphoseek 
and conduct of the procedure and duration of the procedure. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information - Use in Patients receiving more than one dose 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
The  SmPC  contains  wording  in  Section  4.2  which  describes  the 
processes for single dosing of each patient. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of  
Lymphoseek.  
There are no studies required for  Lymphoseek. 
 
 
 
 
 
