23 April 2019 
EMA/107399/2018 
Lynparza: warning that new tablets are used at different 
doses to the capsules 
Risk of medication error if form and dosages not clearly specified in 
prescriptions 
Healthcare professionals are being informed that the new tablet form of the cancer medicine Lynparza 
(olaparib) is used at different doses to the existing capsules. The new tablets are available in two 
strengths: 100 and 150 mg. 
The usual dose for the new tablets is 300 mg twice daily while usual dose for the capsules is 400 mg 
twice daily. The lower doses for patients experiencing side effects are also not the same for the two 
forms (see table below). In most cases, patients will take fewer tablets than capsules. 
Due to these differences, there is an increased risk the medicine will cause side effects or not work 
properly if patients incorrectly take one form in place of the other. 
Prescribers should specify the form and dose of Lynparza on each prescription, and pharmacists should 
take care to dispense the correct form.  
Healthcare professionals should also explain to patients switching from capsules to tablets (or vice-
versa) that the doses in milligrams are different and the number of tablets to take will be different 
from the number of capsules.  
Healthcare professionals in the EU will receive a letter with further information.  
How to prescribe Lynparza* 
Capsules (50 mg) 
Tablets (100 and 150 mg) 
Usual dose 
400  mg (8 capsules) twice daily 
300 mg (2 × 150 mg tablets) twice daily 
Initial dose 
200 mg (4 capsules) twice daily 
250  mg (1 × 150 mg + 1 × 100 mg tablets) twice daily 
reduction** 
Further dose 
100 mg (2 capsules)  twice daily 
200 mg (2 × 100 mg tablets) twice daily 
reduction 
* Capsules are taken without food; tablets can be taken with or without food. 
** Doses may be reduced for patients experiencing side effects (see Product Information for more details). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Information for patients 
• 
• 
Lynparza is now available in two different forms: tablets (100 and 150 mg) and capsules (50 mg). 
The doses are different for the tablets and capsules, and the number of tablets to take will be 
different from the number of capsules (see table above). Another difference is that the capsules 
must be taken without food while tablets can be taken with or without food. 
•  Always take your medicine as your doctor has told you to, paying attention to the dose, particularly 
if you have switched from one form to another. 
• 
If you have switched treatment, you should only take your new medicines. You should return any 
old medicines you have to a pharmacist. 
•  Contact your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions about your treatment. 
Further information for healthcare professionals 
•  Do not substitute tablets for capsules (or vice versa) on a milligram-to-milligram basis. This is 
because of differences in bioavailability between the two forms. 
•  Substituting one form for another on a milligram-to-milligram basis can result in overdosing 
(leading to side effects) or underdosing (leading to lack of effect). 
• 
If you switch a patient from one form to another, instruct them to only use the new medicines and 
to return any old medicines. 
•  Specify the form and dosage of Lynparza on each prescription. Pharmacists should take care to 
dispense the correct form. 
• 
• 
Instruct patients on the correct dose of their tablets or capsules. For any patients switching from 
capsules to tablets (or vice-versa), explain that the doses in milligrams are different and the 
number of tablets to take will be different to the number of capsules. 
The indications for Lynparza tablets and capsules are as follows: 
− 
Lynparza 100 mg and 150 mg tablets 
Monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed 
high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response 
(complete response or partial response) to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
− 
Lynparza 50 mg capsules 
Monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed 
BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, 
or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete response or partial response) to 
platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Lynparza: warning that new tablets are used at different doses to the capsules  
EMA/107399/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More about the medicine 
Lynparza is a cancer medicine used for epithelial cancer of the ovary, including cancers of the fallopian 
tubes (part of the female reproductive system that connect the ovaries to the uterus) and of the 
peritoneum (the membrane lining the abdomen). 
The active substance, olaparib, blocks the action of PARP, enzymes that help to repair damaged DNA in 
cells. While normal cells have alternative mechanisms for repairing DNA, these mechanisms do not 
work properly in cancer cells. The blocking of PARP therefore leads to death of the cancer cells. 
More information on Lynparza is available on the medicine’s dedicated webpage. 
Lynparza: warning that new tablets are used at different doses to the capsules  
EMA/107399/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
