ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg olaparib.
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg olaparib.
Excipient with known effect:
This medicinal product contains 0.24 mg sodium per 100 mg tablet and 0.35 mg sodium per 150 mg 
tablet.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
Yellow to dark yellow, oval, bi-convex tablet, debossed with ‘OP100’ on one side and plain on the 
other side.
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
Green to green/grey, oval, bi-convex tablet, debossed with ‘OP150’ on one side and plain on the other 
side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Ovarian cancer
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the:
 maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) BRCA1/2-
mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary 
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line 
platinum-based chemotherapy.
 maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) 
to platinum-based chemotherapy.
Lynparza in combination with bevacizumab is indicated for the:
 maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) high-grade 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete 
or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy in combination 
with bevacizumab and whose cancer is associated with homologous recombination deficiency 
2
(HRD) positive status defined by either a BRCA1/2 mutation and/or genomic instability (see 
section 5.1).
Breast cancer
Lynparza is indicated as:
 monotherapy or in combination with endocrine therapy for the adjuvant treatment of adult 
patients with germline BRCA1/2-mutations who have HER2-negative, high risk early breast 
cancer previously treated with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy (see sections 4.2 and 
5.1).
 monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline BRCA1/2-mutations, who have 
HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Patients should have previously 
been treated with an anthracycline and a taxane in the (neo)adjuvant or metastatic setting 
unless patients were not suitable for these treatments (see section 5.1). Patients with hormone 
receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should also have progressed on or after prior endocrine 
therapy, or be considered unsuitable for endocrine therapy.
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with germline 
BRCA1/2-mutations who have metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and have not progressed 
after a minimum of 16 weeks of platinum treatment within a first-line chemotherapy regimen.
Prostate cancer
Lynparza is indicated:


as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (mCRPC) and BRCA1/2-mutations (germline and/or somatic) who have progressed 
following prior therapy that included a new hormonal agent.
in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of adult 
patients with mCRPC in whom chemotherapy is not clinically indicated (see section 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with Lynparza should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products.
Patient selection
First-line maintenance treatment of BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer:
Before Lynparza treatment is initiated for first-line maintenance treatment of high-grade epithelial 
ovarian cancer (EOC), fallopian tube cancer (FTC) or primary peritoneal cancer (PPC), patients must 
have confirmation of deleterious or suspected deleterious germline and/or somatic mutations in the 
breast cancer susceptibility genes (BRCA) 1 or 2 using a validated test.
Maintenance treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer:
There is no requirement for BRCA1/2 testing prior to using Lynparza for the monotherapy 
maintenance treatment of relapsed EOC, FTC or PPC who are in a complete or partial response to 
platinum-based therapy.
First-line maintenance treatment of HRD positive advanced ovarian cancer in combination with 
bevacizumab:
Before Lynparza with bevacizumab treatment is initiated for the first-line maintenance treatment of 
EOC, FTC or PPC, patients must have confirmation of either deleterious or suspected deleterious 
BRCA1/2 mutation and/or genomic instability determined using a validated test (see section 5.1).
3
Adjuvant treatment of germline BRCA-mutated high risk early breast cancer
Before Lynparza treatment is initiated for adjuvant treatment of HER2 negative high risk early breast 
cancer, patients must have confirmation of deleterious or suspected deleterious gBRCA1/2 mutation 
using a validated test (see section 5.1).
Monotherapy treatment of gBRCA1/2-mutated HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer:
For germline breast cancer susceptibility genes (gBRCA1/2) mutated human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer, patients must have 
confirmation of a deleterious or suspected deleterious gBRCA1/2 mutation before Lynparza treatment 
is initiated. gBRCA1/2 mutation status should be determined by an experienced laboratory using a 
validated test method. Data demonstrating clinical validation of tumour BRCA1/2 tests in breast cancer 
are not currently available.
First-line maintenance treatment of gBRCA-mutated metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas:
For first-line maintenance treatment of germline BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
pancreas, patients must have confirmation of a deleterious or suspected deleterious gBRCA1/2 
mutation before Lynparza treatment is initiated. gBRCA1/2 mutation status should be determined by 
an experienced laboratory using a validated test method. Data demonstrating clinical validation of 
tumour BRCA1/2 tests in adenocarcinoma of the pancreas are not currently available.
Monotherapy treatment of BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer:
For BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), patients must have 
confirmation of a deleterious or suspected deleterious BRCA1/2 mutation (using either tumour or 
blood sample) before Lynparza treatment is initiated (see section 5.1). BRCA1/2 mutation status 
should be determined by an experienced laboratory using a validated test method.
Treatment of mCRPC in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone:
No genomic testing is required prior to using Lynparza in combination with abiraterone and 
prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of patients with mCRPC.
Genetic counselling for patients tested for mutations in BRCA1/2 genes should be performed 
according to local regulations.
Posology
Lynparza is available as 100 mg and 150 mg tablets.
The recommended dose of Lynparza in monotherapy or in combination with bevacizumab for ovarian 
cancer or in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for prostate cancer or 
endocrine therapy is 300 mg (two 150 mg tablets) taken twice daily, equivalent to a total daily dose of 
600 mg. The 100 mg tablet is available for dose reduction.
Lynparza monotherapy
Patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed (PSR) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or 
primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy
should start treatment with Lynparza no later than 8 weeks after completion of their final dose of the 
platinum-containing regimen. 
Lynparza in combination with bevacizumab
When Lynparza is used in combination with bevacizumab for the first-line maintenance treatment of 
high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer following completion of 
first-line platinum-based therapy with bevacizumab, the dose of bevacizumab is 15 mg/kg once every 
3 weeks. Please refer to the full product information for bevacizumab (see section 5.1).
4
Lynparza in combination with endocrine therapy
Please refer to the full product information of the endocrine therapy combination partner(s) (aromatase 
inhibitor/anti-oestrogen agent and/or LHRH) for the recommended posology.
Lynparza in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone
When Lynparza is used in combination with abiraterone for the treatment of patients with mCRPC, the 
dose of abiraterone is 1000 mg orally once daily (see section 5.1). Abiraterone should be given with 
prednisone or prednisolone 5 mg orally twice daily. Please refer to the full product information for 
abiraterone.
Duration of treatment
First-line maintenance treatment of BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer:
Patients can continue treatment until radiological disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or for up 
to 2 years if there is no radiological evidence of disease after 2 years of treatment. Patients with 
evidence of disease at 2 years, who in the opinion of the treating physician can derive further benefit 
from continuous treatment, can be treated beyond 2 years.
Maintenance treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer:
For patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary 
peritoneal cancer, it is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying 
disease or unacceptable toxicity.
First-line maintenance treatment of HRD positive advanced ovarian cancer in combination with 
bevacizumab:
Patients can continue treatment with Lynparza until radiological disease progression, unacceptable 
toxicity or for up to 2 years if there is no radiological evidence of disease after 2 years of treatment. 
Patients with evidence of disease at 2 years, who in the opinion of the treating physician can derive 
further benefit from continuous Lynparza treatment, can be treated beyond 2 years. Please refer to the 
product information for bevacizumab for the recommended overall duration of treatment of a 
maximum of 15 months including the periods in combination with chemotherapy and as maintenance 
(see section 5.1).
Adjuvant treatment of germline BRCA-mutated high risk early breast cancer
It is recommended that patients are treated for up to 1 year, or until disease recurrence, or unacceptable 
toxicity, whichever occurs first.
Monotherapy  treatment of gBRCA1/2-mutated HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer:
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or 
unacceptable toxicity. 
The efficacy and safety of maintenance retreatment with Lynparza following first or subsequent 
relapse in ovarian cancer patients has not been established. There are no efficacy or safety data on 
retreatment of breast cancer patients (see section 5.1).
First-line maintenance treatment of gBRCA-mutated metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas:
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or 
unacceptable toxicity. 
Monotherapy  treatment of BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer:
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or 
unacceptable toxicity. Medical castration with luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) 
analogue should be continued during treatment in patients not surgically castrated. 
5
Treatment of mCRPC in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone:
It is recommended that treatment be continued until progression of the underlying disease or 
unacceptable toxicity when Lynparza is used in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or 
prednisolone. Treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue should be 
continued during treatment in all patients, or patients should have had prior bilateral orchiectomy. 
Please refer to the product information for abiraterone.
There are no efficacy or safety data on retreatment with Lynparza in prostate cancer patients (see 
section 5.1).
Missing dose
If a patient misses a dose of Lynparza, they should take their next normal dose at its scheduled time.
Dose adjustments for adverse reactions
Treatment may be interrupted to manage adverse reactions such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, and 
anaemia and dose reduction can be considered (see section 4.8).
The recommended dose reduction is to 250 mg (one 150 mg tablet and one 100 mg tablet) twice daily 
(equivalent to a total daily dose of 500 mg).
If a further dose reduction is required, then reduction to 200 mg (two 100 mg tablets) twice daily 
(equivalent to a total daily dose of 400 mg) is recommended.
Dose adjustments for co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors
Concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended and alternative agents 
should be considered. If a strong CYP3A inhibitor must be co-administered, the recommended 
Lynparza dose reduction is to 100 mg (one 100 mg tablet) taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily 
dose of 200 mg). If a moderate CYP3A inhibitor must be co-administered, the recommended Lynparza 
dose reduction is to 150 mg (one 150 mg tablet) taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 
300 mg) (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Special populations
Elderly 
No adjustment in starting dose is required for elderly patients.
Renal impairment 
For patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 31 to 50 ml/min) the recommended 
dose of Lynparza is 200 mg (two 100 mg tablets) twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 
400 mg) (see section 5.2). 
Lynparza can be administered in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 51 to 
80 ml/min) with no dose adjustment.
Lynparza is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal 
disease (creatinine clearance ≤30 ml/min), as safety and pharmacokinetics have not been studied in 
these patients. Lynparza may only be used in patients with severe renal impairment if the benefit 
outweighs the potential risk, and the patient should be carefully monitored for renal function and 
adverse events. 
6
Hepatic impairment 
Lynparza can be administered to patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
classification A or B) with no dose adjustment (see section 5.2). Lynparza is not recommended for use 
in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification C), as safety and 
pharmacokinetics have not been studied in these patients. 
Non-Caucasian patients
There are limited clinical data available in non-Caucasian patients. However, no dose adjustment is 
required on the basis of ethnicity (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Lynparza in children and adolescents have not been established. 
No data are available.
Method of administration 
Lynparza is for oral use.
Lynparza tablets should be swallowed whole and not chewed, crushed, dissolved or divided. Lynparza 
tablets may be taken without regard to meals.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Breast-feeding during treatment and for 1 month after the last dose (see section 4.6).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Haematological toxicity 
Haematological toxicity has been reported in patients treated with Lynparza, including clinical 
diagnoses and/or laboratory findings of generally mild or moderate (CTCAE grade 1 or 2) anaemia, 
neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia. Patients should not start treatment with Lynparza 
until they have recovered from haematological toxicity caused by previous anticancer therapy 
(haemoglobin, platelet and neutrophil levels should be ≤CTCAE grade 1). Baseline testing, followed 
by monthly monitoring, of complete blood counts is recommended for the first 12 months of treatment 
and periodically after this time to monitor for clinically significant changes in any parameter during 
treatment (see section 4.8).
If a patient develops severe haematological toxicity or blood transfusion dependence, treatment with 
Lynparza should be interrupted and appropriate haematological testing should be initiated. If the blood 
parameters remain clinically abnormal after 4 weeks of Lynparza dose interruption, bone marrow 
analysis and/or blood cytogenetic analysis are recommended. 
Myelodysplastic syndrome/Acute myeloid leukaemia 
The overall incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukaemia (MDS/AML) in patients 
treated in clinical trials with Lynparza monotherapy, including long-term survival follow-up, was 
<1.5%, with higher incidence in patients with BRCAm platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer who 
had received at least two prior lines of platinum chemotherapy and were followed up for 5 years (see 
section 4.8). The majority of events had a fatal outcome. The duration of therapy with olaparib in 
patients who developed MDS/AML varied from <6 months to >4 years.
If MDS/AML is suspected, the patient should be referred to a haematologist for further investigations, 
including bone marrow analysis and blood sampling for cytogenetics. If, following investigation for 
7
prolonged haematological toxicity, MDS/AML is confirmed, Lynparza should be discontinued and the 
patient treated appropriately.
Venous Thromboembolic Events 
Venous thromboembolic events, predominantly events of pulmonary embolism, have occurred in 
patients treated with Lynparza and had no consistent clinical pattern. A higher incidence was observed 
in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, who also received androgen deprivation 
therapy, compared with other approved indications (see section 4.8). Monitor patients for clinical signs 
and symptoms of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and treat as medically appropriate.
Patients with a prior history of VTE may be more at risk of a further occurrence and should be 
monitored appropriately.
Pneumonitis 
Pneumonitis, including events with a fatal outcome, has been reported in <1.0% of patients treated 
with Lynparza in clinical studies. Reports of pneumonitis had no consistent clinical pattern and were 
confounded by a number of pre-disposing factors (cancer and/or metastases in lungs, underlying 
pulmonary disease, smoking history, and/or previous chemotherapy and radiotherapy). If patients 
present with new or worsening respiratory symptoms such as dyspnoea, cough and fever, or an 
abnormal chest radiologic finding is observed, Lynparza treatment should be interrupted and prompt 
investigation initiated. If pneumonitis is confirmed, Lynparza treatment should be discontinued and 
the patient treated appropriately.
Hepatotoxicity
Cases of hepatotoxicity have been reported in patients treated with olaparib (see section 4.8). If 
clinical symptoms or signs suggestive of hepatotoxicity develop, prompt clinical evaluation of the 
patient and measurement of liver function tests should be performed. In case of suspected drug-
induced liver injury (DILI), treatment should be interrupted. In case of severe DILI treatment 
discontinuation should be considered as clinically appropriate.
Embryofoetal toxicity
Based on its mechanism of action (PARP inhibition), Lynparza could cause foetal harm when 
administered to a pregnant woman. Nonclinical studies in rats have shown that olaparib causes adverse 
effects on embryofoetal survival and induces major foetal malformations at exposures below those 
expected at the recommended human dose of 300 mg twice daily.
Pregnancy/contraception
Lynparza should not be used during pregnancy. Women of childbearing potential must use two forms 
of reliable contraception before starting Lynparza treatment, during therapy and for 6 months after 
receiving the last dose of Lynparza. Two highly effective and complementary forms of contraception 
are recommended. Male patients and their female partners of childbearing potential should use reliable 
contraception during therapy and for 3 months after receiving the last dose of Lynparza (see 
section 4.6).
Interactions 
Lynparza co-administration with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). If a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor must be co-administered, the dose of Lynparza 
should be reduced (see sections 4.2 and 4.5).
Lynparza co-administration with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended. In the 
event that a patient already receiving Lynparza requires treatment with a strong or moderate CYP3A 
inducer, the prescriber should be aware that the efficacy of Lynparza may be substantially reduced 
(see section 4.5).
8
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg or 150 mg tablet, that is 
to say essentially “sodium-free”.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Pharmacodynamic interactions
Clinical studies of olaparib in combination with other anticancer medicinal products, including DNA 
damaging agents, indicate a potentiation and prolongation of myelosuppressive toxicity. The 
recommended Lynparza monotherapy dose is not suitable for combination with myelosuppressive 
anticancer medicinal products.
Combination of olaparib with vaccines or immunosuppressant agents has not been studied. Therefore, 
caution should be taken if these medicinal products are co-administered with Lynparza and patients 
should be closely monitored.
Pharmacokinetic interactions
Effect of other medicinal products on olaparib
CYP3A4/5 are the isozymes predominantly responsible for the metabolic clearance of olaparib.
A clinical study to evaluate the impact of itraconazole, a known CYP3A inhibitor, has shown that 
co-administration with olaparib increased mean olaparib Cmax by 42% (90% CI: 33-52%) and mean 
AUC by 170% (90% CI: 144-197%). Therefore, known strong (e.g. itraconazole, telithromycin, 
clarithromycin, protease inhibitors boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat, boceprevir, telaprevir) or 
moderate (e.g. erythromycin, diltiazem, fluconazole, verapamil) inhibitors of this isozyme are not 
recommended with Lynparza (see section 4.4). If strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors must be 
co-administered, the dose of Lynparza should be reduced. The recommended Lynparza dose reduction 
is to 100 mg taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 200 mg) with a strong CYP3A 
inhibitor or 150 mg taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 300 mg) with a moderate 
CYP3A inhibitor (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). It is also not recommended to consume grapefruit juice 
while on Lynparza therapy as it is a CYP3A inhibitor.
A clinical study to evaluate the impact of rifampicin, a known CYP3A inducer, has shown that 
co-administration with olaparib decreased olaparib mean Cmax by 71% (90% CI: 76-67%) and mean 
AUC by 87% (90% CI: 89-84%). Therefore, known strong inducers of this isozyme (e.g. phenytoin, 
rifampicin, rifapentine, carbamazepine, nevirapine, phenobarbital and St John’s Wort) are not 
recommended with Lynparza, as it is possible that the efficacy of Lynparza could be substantially 
reduced. The magnitude of the effect of moderate to strong inducers (e.g. efavirenz, rifabutin) on 
olaparib exposure is not established, therefore the co-administration of Lynparza with these medicinal 
products is also not recommended (see section 4.4).
Effect of olaparib on other medicinal products
Olaparib inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro and is predicted to be a mild CYP3A inhibitor in vivo. Therefore, 
caution should be exercised when sensitive CYP3A substrates or substrates with a narrow therapeutic 
margin (e.g. simvastatin, cisapride, cyclosporine, ergot alkaloids, fentanyl, pimozide, sirolimus, 
tacrolimus and quetiapine) are combined with olaparib. Appropriate clinical monitoring is 
recommended for patients receiving CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic margin 
concomitantly with olaparib.
Induction of CYP1A2, 2B6 and 3A4 has been shown in vitro with CYP2B6 being most likely to be 
induced to a clinically relevant extent. The potential for olaparib to induce CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and 
P-gp can also not be excluded. Therefore, olaparib upon co-administration may reduce the exposure to 
substrates of these metabolic enzymes and transport protein. The efficacy of some hormonal 
contraceptives may be reduced if co-administered with olaparib (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).
9
In vitro, olaparib inhibits the efflux transporter P-gp (IC50=76 µM), therefore it cannot be excluded 
that olaparib may cause clinically relevant drug interactions with substrates of P-gp (e.g. simvastatin, 
pravastatin, dabigatran, digoxin and colchicine). Appropriate clinical monitoring is recommended for 
patients receiving this type of medicinal product concomitantly.
In vitro, olaparib has been shown to be an inhibitor of BCRP, OATP1B1, OCT1, OCT2, OAT3, 
MATE1 and MATE2K. It cannot be excluded that olaparib may increase the exposure to substrates of 
BCRP (e.g. methotrexate, rosuvastatin), OATP1B1 (e.g. bosentan, glibenclamide, repaglinide, statins 
and valsartan), OCT1 (e.g. metformin), OCT2 (e.g. serum creatinine), OAT3 (e.g. furosemide and 
methotrexate), MATE1 (e.g. metformin) and MATE2K (e.g. metformin). In particular, caution should 
be exercised if olaparib is administered in combination with any statin. 
Combination with anastrozole, letrozole and tamoxifen
A clinical study has been performed to assess the combination of olaparib with anastrozole, letrozole 
or tamoxifen. No clinically relevant interactions were observed.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females
Women of childbearing potential should not become pregnant while on Lynparza and not be pregnant 
at the beginning of treatment. A pregnancy test should be performed on all women of childbearing 
potential prior to treatment and considered regularly throughout treatment. 
Women of childbearing potential must use two forms of reliable contraception before starting 
Lynparza therapy, during therapy and for 6 months after receiving the last dose of Lynparza, unless 
abstinence is the chosen method of contraception (see section 4.4). Two highly effective and 
complementary forms of contraception are recommended.
Since it cannot be excluded that olaparib may reduce exposure to substrates of CYP2C9 through 
enzyme induction, the efficacy of some hormonal contraceptives may be reduced if co-administered 
with olaparib. Therefore, an additional non-hormonal contraceptive method should be considered 
during treatment (see section 4.5). For women with hormone dependent cancer, two non-hormonal 
contraceptive methods should be considered.
Contraception in males 
It is not known whether olaparib or its metabolites are found in seminal fluid. Male patients must use a 
condom during therapy and for 3 months after receiving the last dose of Lynparza when having sexual 
intercourse with a pregnant woman or with a woman of childbearing potential. Female partners of 
male patients must also use highly effective contraception if they are of childbearing potential (see 
section 4.4). Male patients should not donate sperm during therapy and for 3 months after receiving 
the last dose of Lynparza. 
Pregnancy
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity including serious teratogenic effects and effects 
on embryofoetal survival in the rat at maternal systemic exposures lower than those in humans at 
therapeutic doses (see section 5.3). There are no data from the use of olaparib in pregnant women, 
however, based on the mode of action of olaparib, Lynparza should not be used during pregnancy and 
in women of childbearing potential not using reliable contraception during therapy and for 6 months
after receiving the last dose of Lynparza. (See previous paragraph: “Women of childbearing 
potential/contraception in females” for further information about birth control and pregnancy testing.)
10
Breast-feeding
There are no animal studies on the excretion of olaparib in breast milk. It is unknown whether olaparib
or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Lynparza is contraindicated during breast-feeding and 
for 1 month after receiving the last dose, given the pharmacologic property of the product (see 
section 4.3). 
Fertility
There are no clinical data on fertility. In animal studies, no effect on conception was observed but 
there are adverse effects on embryofoetal survival (see section 5.3). 
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Lynparza has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients who take Lynparza 
may experience fatigue, asthenia or dizziness. Patients who experience these symptoms should 
observe caution when driving or using machines. 
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Lynparza has been associated with adverse reactions generally of mild or moderate severity (CTCAE
grade 1 or 2) and generally not requiring treatment discontinuation. The most frequently observed 
adverse reactions across clinical trials in patients receiving Lynparza monotherapy (≥10%) were 
nausea, fatigue/asthenia, anaemia, vomiting, diarrhoea, decreased appetite, headache, neutropenia, 
dysgeusia, cough, leukopenia, dizziness, dyspnoea and dyspepsia.
The Grade ≥3 adverse reactions occurring in > 2% of patients were anaemia (14%), neutropenia (5%), 
fatigue/asthenia (4%), leukopenia (2%) and thrombocytopenia (2%).
Adverse reactions that most commonly led to dose interruptions and/ or reductions in monotherapy 
were anaemia (16%), nausea (7%), fatigue/asthenia (6%), neutropenia (6%) and vomiting (6%). 
Adverse reactions that most commonly led to permanent discontinuation were anaemia (1.7%), nausea 
(0.9%), fatigue/asthenia (0.8%), thrombocytopenia (0.7%), neutropenia (0.6%) and vomiting (0.5%).
When Lynparza is used in combination with bevacizumab for ovarian cancer or in combination with 
abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for prostate cancer, the safety profile is generally 
consistent with that of the individual therapies.
Adverse events led to dose interruption and/ or reduction of olaparib in 57% of patients when used in 
combination with bevacizumab and led to permanent discontinuation of treatment with 
olaparib/bevacizumab and placebo/bevacizumab in 21% and 6% of patients, respectively. The adverse 
reactions that most commonly led to dose interruption and/or reduction were anaemia (21.7%), nausea 
(9.5%), fatigue/asthenia (5.4%), vomiting (3.7%), neutropenia (3.6%), thrombocytopenia (3.0%) and 
diarrhoea (2.6%). The adverse reactions that most commonly led to permanent discontinuation were 
anaemia (3.7%), nausea (3.6%) and fatigue/asthenia (1.5%).
Adverse events led to dose interruption and/or reduction of olaparib in 50.7% of patients when used in 
combination with abiraterone and led to permanent discontinuation of treatment with 
olaparib/abiraterone and placebo/abiraterone in 19.0% and 8.8% of patients, respectively. The adverse 
reactions that most commonly led to dose interruption and/or reduction were anaemia (17.1%), 
fatigue/asthenia (5.5%), nausea (4.1%), neutropenia (3.4%), vomiting (2.3%), diarrhoea (2.1%) and 
venous thrombotic events (2.1%). The adverse reactions that most commonly led to permanent 
discontinuation were anaemia (4.5%) and fatigue/asthenia (1.3%).
11
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The safety profile is based on pooled data from 4499 patients with solid tumours treated with 
Lynparza monotherapy in clinical trials at the recommended dose.
The following adverse reactions have been identified in clinical trials with patients receiving Lynparza
monotherapy where patient exposure is known. Adverse drug reactions are listed by MedDRA System 
Organ Class (SOC) and then by MedDRA preferred term in Table 1. Within each SOC, preferred 
terms are arranged by decreasing frequency and then by decreasing seriousness. Frequencies of 
occurrence of adverse reactions are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (1/100 to <1/10); 
uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known 
(cannot be estimated from available data).
Table 1 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disordersb
Immune system 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Frequency of All CTCAE grades
Frequency of CTCAE grade 3 
and above 
Uncommon
Myelodysplastic syndrome/ Acute myeloid 
leukaemiaa
Uncommon
Myelodysplastic syndrome/ 
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
Very common
Anaemiaa
Common
Neutropeniaa, 
Thrombocytopeniaa, 
Leukopeniaa, Lymphopeniaa
Rare
Hypersensitivitya
Very common
Anaemiaa, Neutropeniaa, Leukopeniaa
Common
Lymphopeniaa, Thrombocytopeniaa
Uncommon
Hypersensitivitya
Rare
Angioedema*
Common 
Transaminases increaseda
Not known 
Drug-induced liver injury*
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Very common 
Decreased appetite
Uncommon
Decreased appetite
Nervous system 
disorders
Very common
Dizziness, Headache, Dysgeusiaa
Uncommon
Dizziness, Headache
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Very common
Cougha, Dyspnoeaa
Common
Dyspnoeaa
Uncommon
Cougha
12
MedDRA 
System Organ 
Class
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
Investigationsb
Adverse reactions
Frequency of All CTCAE grades
Frequency of CTCAE grade 3 
and above 
Very common
Vomiting, Diarrhoea, Nausea, Dyspepsia
Common
Stomatitisa, Upper abdominal pain
Common
Rasha
Uncommon
Dermatitisa
Rare
Erythema nodosum
Common
Vomiting, Nausea
Uncommon
Stomatitisa, Diarrhoea
Rare
Dyspepsia, Upper abdominal 
pain
Uncommon
Rasha
Rare
Dermatitisa
Very common
Fatigue (including asthenia) 
Common
Fatigue (including asthenia)
Common
Blood creatinine increased
Uncommon 
Mean cell volume increased
Rare
Blood creatinine increased
Vascular 
disorders
Common
Venous thromboembolisma
Common
Venous thromboembolisma
a
MDS/AML includes preferred terms (PTs) of acute myeloid leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndrome and 
myeloid leukaemia.
Anaemia includes PTs of anaemia, anaemia macrocytic, erythropenia, haematocrit decreased, 
haemoglobin decreased, normocytic anaemia and red blood cell count decreased.
Neutropenia includes PTs of febrile neutropenia, neutropenia, neutropenic infection, neutropenic sepsis
and neutrophil count decreased.
Thrombocytopenia includes PTs of platelet count decreased and thrombocytopenia.
Leukopenia includes PTs of leukopenia and white blood cell count decreased.
Lymphopenia includes PTs of lymphocyte count decreased and lymphopenia.
Hypersensitivity includes PTs of drug hypersensitivity and hypersensitivity.
Transaminases increased includes PTs of alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase 
increased, hepatic enzyme increased, and hypertransaminasaemia
Dysgeusia includes PTs of dysgeusia and taste disorder.
Cough includes PTs of cough and productive cough.
Dyspnoea includes PTs of dyspnoea and dyspnoea exertional.
Stomatitis includes PTs of aphthous ulcer, mouth ulceration and stomatitis.
Rash includes PTs of erythema, exfoliative rash, rash, rash erythematous, rash macular, rash 
maculo-papular, rash papular and rash pruritic.
Dermatitis includes PTs of dermatitis and dermatitis allergic.
13
Venous thromboembolism includes PTs of embolism, pulmonary embolism, thrombosis, deep vein 
thrombosis, vena cava thrombosis and venous thrombosis.
Registered laboratory data are presented below under Haematological toxicity and Other laboratory 
findings.
As observed in the post-marketing setting.
b
*
Description of selected adverse reactions
Haematological toxicity
Anaemia and other haematological toxicities were generally low grade (CTCAE grade 1 or 2), 
however, there were reports of CTCAE grade 3 and higher events. Anaemia was the most common 
CTCAE grade ≥3 adverse reaction reported in clinical studies. Median time to first onset of anaemia 
was approximately 4 weeks (approximately 7 weeks for CTCAE grade ≥3 events). Anaemia was 
managed with dose interruptions and dose reductions (see section 4.2), and where appropriate with 
blood transfusions. In clinical studies with the tablet formulation, the incidence of anaemia adverse 
reactions was 35.2% (CTCAE grade ≥3 14.8%) and the incidences of dose interruptions, reductions 
and discontinuations for anaemia were 16.4%, 11.1% and 2.1%, respectively; 15.6% of patients 
treated with olaparib needed one or more blood transfusions. An exposure-response relationship 
between olaparib and decreases in haemoglobin has been demonstrated. In clinical studies with 
Lynparza the incidence of CTCAE grade ≥ 2 shifts (decreases) from baseline in haemoglobin was 
21%, absolute neutrophils 17%, platelets 5%, lymphocytes 26% and leucocytes 19% (all % 
approximate).
The incidence of elevations in mean corpuscular volume from low or normal at baseline to above the 
ULN was approximately 51%. Levels appeared to return to normal after treatment discontinuation and 
did not appear to have any clinical consequences.
Baseline testing, followed by monthly monitoring of complete blood counts is recommended for the 
first 12 months of treatment and periodically after this time to monitor for clinically significant 
changes in any parameter during treatment which may require dose interruption or reduction and/or 
further treatment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Myelodysplastic syndrome/Acute myeloid leukaemia
MDS/AML are serious adverse reactions that occurred uncommonly in monotherapy clinical studies at 
the therapeutic dose, across all indications (0.9%). The incidence was 0.5% including events reported 
during the long term safety follow up (rate calculated based on overall safety population of 18576
patients exposed to at least one dose of oral olaparib in clinical studies). All patients had potential 
contributing factors for the development of MDS/AML, having received previous chemotherapy with 
platinum agents. Many had also received other DNA damaging agents and radiotherapy. The majority 
of reports were in germline breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 or 2 (gBRCA1/2) mutation carriers. The 
incidence of MDS/AML cases was similar among gBRCA1m and gBRCA2m patients (1.6% and 1.2%, 
respectively). Some of the patients had a history of previous cancer or of bone marrow dysplasia.
In patients with BRCAm platinum-sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer who had received at least two 
prior lines of platinum chemotherapy and received study treatment until disease progression (SOLO2 
study, with olaparib treatment ≥2 years in 45% of patients), the incidence of MDS/AML was 8% in 
patients receiving olaparib and 4% in patients receiving placebo at a follow-up of 5 years. In the 
olaparib arm, 9 out of 16 MDS/AML cases occurred after discontinuation of olaparib during the 
survival follow-up. The incidence of MDS/AML was observed in the context of extended overall 
survival in the olaparib arm and late onset of MDS/AML. The risk of MDS/AML remains low in the 
first-line setting when olaparib maintenance treatment is given after one line of platinum 
chemotherapy for a duration of 2 years (1.5%) in SOLO1 study at 7 year follow up and 1.1% in 
PAOLA-1 study at 5 year follow up. For risk mitigation and management (see section 4.4).
14
Venous Thromboembolic Events
In men who received olaparib plus abiraterone as first line therapy for mCRPC (PROpel study), the 
incidence of venous thromboembolic events was 8% in the olaparib plus abiraterone arm, and 3.3% in 
the placebo plus abiraterone arm. The median time to onset in this study was 170 days (range: 12 to 
906 days). The majority of patients recovered from the event and were able to continue olaparib with 
standard medical treatment. 
Patients with significant cardiovascular disease were excluded. Please refer to the product information 
for abiraterone for cardiovascular exclusion criteria (section 4.4).
Other laboratory findings
In clinical studies with Lynparza the incidence of CTCAE grade ≥2 shifts (elevations) from baseline in 
blood creatinine was approximately 11%. Data from a double-blind placebo-controlled study showed 
median increase up to 23% from baseline remaining consistent over time and returning to baseline 
after treatment discontinuation, with no apparent clinical sequelae. 90% of patients had creatinine
values of CTCAE grade 0 at baseline and 10% were CTCAE grade 1 at baseline.
Gastrointestinal toxicities
Nausea was generally reported very early, with first onset within the first month of Lynparza treatment 
in the majority of patients. Vomiting was reported early, with first onset within the first two months of 
Lynparza treatment in the majority of patients. Both nausea and vomiting were reported to be 
intermittent for the majority of patients and can be managed by dose interruption, dose reduction 
and/or antiemetic therapy. Antiemetic prophylaxis is not required.
In first-line ovarian cancer maintenance treatment, patients experienced nausea events (77% on 
olaparib, 38% on placebo), vomiting (40% on olaparib, 15% on placebo), diarrhoea (34% on olaparib, 
25% on placebo) and dyspepsia (17% on olaparib, 12% on placebo). Nausea events led to 
discontinuation in 2.3% of olaparib-treated patients (CTCAE Grade 2) and 0.8% of placebo-treated 
patients (CTCAE Grade 1); 0.8% and 0.4% of olaparib-treated patients discontinued treatment due to 
low grade (CTCAE Grade 2) vomiting and dyspepsia, respectively. No olaparib or placebo-treated 
patients discontinued due to diarrhoea. No placebo-treated patients discontinued due to vomiting or 
dyspepsia. Nausea events led to dose interruption and dose reductions in 14% and 4%, respectively, of 
olaparib-treated patients. Vomiting events led to interruption in 10% of olaparib-treated patients; no 
olaparib-treated patients experienced a vomiting event leading to dose reduction. 
Paediatric population
No studies have been conducted in paediatric patients.
Other special populations
Limited safety data are available in non-Caucasian patients.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
There is limited experience of overdose with olaparib. No unexpected adverse reactions were reported 
in a small number of patients who took a daily dose of up to 900 mg of olaparib tablets over two days. 
Symptoms of overdose are not established and there is no specific treatment in the event of Lynparza
15
overdose. In the event of an overdose, physicians should follow general supportive measures and 
should treat the patient symptomatically.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XK01
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects
Olaparib is a potent inhibitor of human poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase enzymes (PARP-1, PARP-2, 
and PARP-3), and has been shown to inhibit the growth of selected tumour cell lines in vitro and 
tumour growth in vivo either as a standalone treatment or in combination with established 
chemotherapies or new hormonal agents (NHA). 
PARPs are required for the efficient repair of DNA single strand breaks and an important aspect of 
PARP-induced repair requires that after chromatin modification, PARP auto-modifies itself and 
dissociates from the DNA to facilitate access for base excision repair (BER) enzymes. When olaparib 
is bound to the active site of DNA-associated PARP it prevents the dissociation of PARP and traps it 
on the DNA, thus blocking repair. In replicating cells this also leads to the formation of DNA 
double-strand breaks (DSBs) when replication forks meet the PARP-DNA adducts. In normal cells, 
homologous recombination repair (HRR) pathway is effective at repairing these DNA DSBs. In cancer
cells lacking critical functional components for efficient HRR such as BRCA1 or 2, DNA DSBs 
cannot be repaired accurately or effectively, leading to substantial homologous recombination 
deficiency (HRD). Instead, alternative and error-prone pathways are activated, such as the classical 
non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway, leading to a high degree of genomic instability. After a 
number of rounds of replication, genomic instability can reach insupportable levels and result in 
cancer cell death, as cancer cells already have a high DNA damage load relative to normal cells. HRR 
pathway may be compromised by other mechanisms, although the causative aberrancy and penetrance 
are not fully elucidated. Absence of fully functional HRR pathway is one of the key determinants of 
platinum sensitivity in ovarian and possibly other cancers.
In BRCA1/2-deficient in vivo models, olaparib given after platinum treatment resulted in a delay in 
tumour progression and an increase in overall survival compared to platinum treatment alone that 
correlated with the period of olaparib maintenance treatment.
Combined anti-tumour effect with NHAs
Pre-clinical studies in prostate cancer models reported a combined anti-tumour effect when PARP 
inhibitors and next-generation hormonal agents are administered together. PARP is involved in 
positive co-regulation of androgen receptor (AR) signalling, which leads to enhanced AR target gene 
suppression when PARP/AR signalling is co-inhibited. Other pre-clinical studies reported that 
treatment with NHAs inhibit the transcription of some HRR genes, therefore, inducing HRR 
deficiency and increased sensitivity to PARP inhibitors via non-genetic mechanisms.
Detection of BRCA1/2 mutations
Genetic testing should be conducted by an experienced laboratory using a validated test. Local or 
central testing of blood and/or tumour samples for germline and/or somatic BRCA1/2 mutations have 
been used in different studies. DNA obtained from a tissue or blood sample has been tested in most of 
the studies, with testing of ctDNA being used for exploratory purposes. Depending on the test used 
and the international classification consensus, the BRCA1/2 mutations have been classified as 
deleterious/suspected deleterious or pathogenic/likely pathogenic. Homologous recombination 
deficiency (HRD) positive status can be defined by detection of a BRCA1/2 mutation classified as 
16
deleterious/suspected deleterious or pathogenic/likely pathogenic. Detection of these mutations could 
be combined with positive HRD score (below) to determine HRD positive status.
Detection of genomic instability
HR deficiency-associated genomic alterations that have been investigated in Paola-1 include genome-
wide loss of heterozygosity, telomeric allelic imbalance and large-scale transition, which are 
continuous measures with pre-defined criteria and score. Composite genomic instability score (GIS, 
also called HRD score) is determined when the combined measures and respective scores are used to 
assess the extent of specific genomic aberrations accumulated in tumour cells. Lower score defines 
lower likelihood of HR deficiency of tumour cells and higher score determines higher likelihood of 
HR deficiency of tumour cells at the time of the sample collection relative to exposure to DNA 
damaging agents. Validated cut-offs should be used to determine GIS positive status.  
HRD positive status can be defined by a composite GIS score for HR deficiency-associated genomic 
alterations tested by an experienced laboratory using a validated test.
Clinical efficacy and safety
First-line maintenance treatment of BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer
SOLO1 Study
The safety and efficacy of olaparib as maintenance therapy were studied in patients with newly 
diagnosed advanced (FIGO Stage III-IV) high-grade serous or endometrioid BRCA1/2 mutated 
(BRCA1/2m) ovarian cancer following completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy in a 
Phase III randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trial. In this study 391 patients 
were randomised 2:1 to receive either Lynparza (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] twice daily) or placebo.
Patients were stratified by response to first-line platinum chemotherapy; complete response (CR) or 
partial response (PR). Treatment was continued until radiological progression of the underlying 
disease, unacceptable toxicity or for up to 2 years. For patients who remained in complete clinical 
response (i.e. no radiological evidence of disease), the maximum duration of treatment was 2 years; 
however, patients who had evidence of disease that remained stable (i.e. no evidence of disease 
progression) could continue to receive Lynparza beyond 2 years.
Patients with germline or somatic BRCA1/2 mutations were identified prospectively either from 
germline testing in blood via a local test (n=208) or central test (n=181) or from testing a tumour 
sample using a local test (n=2). By central germline testing, deleterious or suspected deleterious 
mutations were identified in 95.3% (365/383) and 4.7% (18/383) of patients, respectively. Large 
rearrangements in the BRCA1/2 genes were detected in 5.5% (21/383) of the randomised patients. The 
gBRCAm status of patients enrolled via local testing was confirmed retrospectively by central testing. 
Retrospective testing of patients with available tumour samples was performed using central testing 
and generated successful results in 341 patients, of which 95% had an eligible mutation (known 
[n=47] or likely pathogenic [n=277]) and 2 gBRCAwt patients were confirmed to have sBRCAm only.
There were 389 patients who were germline BRCA1/2m and 2 who were somatic BRCA1/2m in 
SOLO1.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
placebo treatment arms. Median age was 53 years in both arms. Ovarian cancer was the primary 
tumour in 85% of the patients. The most common histological type was serous (96%), endometrioid 
histology was reported in 2% of the patients. Most patients were ECOG performance status 0 (78%), 
there are no data in patients with performance status 2 to 4. Sixty-three percent (63%) of the patients 
had upfront debulking surgery and of these the majority (75%) had no macroscopic residual disease. 
Interval debulking surgery was performed in 35% of the patients and of these 82% had no 
macroscopic residual disease reported. Seven patients, all stage IV, had no cytoreductive surgery. All 
patients had received first-line platinum-based therapy. There was no evidence of disease at study 
17
entry (CR), defined by the investigator as no radiological evidence of disease and cancer antigen 125 
(CA-125) within normal range, in 73% and 77% of patients in the olaparib and placebo arms, 
respectively. PR, defined as the presence of any measurable or non-measurable lesions at baseline or 
elevated CA-125, was reported in 27% and 23% of patients in the olaparib and placebo arms, 
respectively. Ninety three percent (93%) of patients were randomised within 8 weeks of their last dose 
of platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients who had been treated with bevacizumab were excluded 
from the study, therefore there are no safety and efficacy data on olaparib patients who had previously 
received bevacizumab. There are very limited data in patients with a somatic BRCA mutation.
The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS) defined as time from randomisation to 
progression determined by investigator assessment using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in 
Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, or death. Secondary efficacy endpoints included time from 
randomisation to second progression or death (PFS2), overall survival (OS), time from randomisation 
to discontinuation of treatment or death (TDT), time from randomisation to first subsequent anti-
cancer therapy or death (TFST) and health related quality of life (HRQoL). Patients had tumour 
assessments at baseline and every 12 weeks for 3 years, and then every 24 weeks relative to date of 
randomisation, until objective radiological disease progression.
The study demonstrated a clinically relevant and statistically significant improvement in investigator 
assessed PFS for olaparib compared to placebo. The investigator assessment of PFS was supported 
with a blinded independent central radiological (BICR) review of PFS. A descriptive analysis 
performed at seven years after the last patient was randomized demonstrated a clinically meaningful 
benefit in OS that numerically favoured the olaparib arm. Efficacy results are presented in Table 2 and 
Figures 1 and 2. 
Table 2 Efficacy results for newly diagnosed patients with BRCA1/2m advanced ovarian 
cancer in SOLO1
PFS (51% maturity)a
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Placeboc
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time (months)
HR (95% CI)b
P value (2-sided)
102:260 (39)
NR 
0.30 (0.23-0.41)
p<0.0001
PFS2 (31% maturity) 
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time (months)
HR (95% CI) c
P value (2-sided)
69:260 (27)
NR 
0.50 (0.35-0.72)
p=0.0002
OS (38% maturity)d
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time (months)
HR (95% CI)b
84:260 (32)
NR
0.55 (0.40-0.76)
TFST (60% maturity)
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time (months)
HR (95% CI) c
135:260 (52)
64.0
0.37 (0.28-0.48)
96:131 (73)
13.8
52:131 (40)
41.9
65:131 (50)
75.2
98:131 (75)
15.1
a
c
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the proportion of patients that were progression free at 24 and 36 months were 74% 
and 60% for olaparib versus 35% and 27% for placebo; the median follow-up time was 41 months for both the olaparib 
and placebo arms.bA value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards model 
including response to previous platinum chemotherapy (CR or PR) as a covariate.
Of the 97 patients on the placebo arm who received subsequent therapy, 58 (60%) received a PARP inhibitor. 
18
d
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the proportion of patients that were alive 84 months was 67% for olaparib versus 
47% for placebo.
Twice daily; NR Not reached; CI Confidence interval; PFS Progression-free survival; PFS2 Time to second 
bd
progression or death; OS Overall survival; TFST Time from randomisation to first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death.
Figure 1
SOLO1: Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS in newly diagnosed patients with BRCA1/2m
advanced ovarian cancer (51% maturity - investigator assessment)
19
Figure 2
SOLO1: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS in newly diagnosed patients with BRCA1/2m
advanced ovarian cancer (38% maturity)
Olaparib 300mg twice daily tablet
Placebo twice daily tablet
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300mg twice daily tablet
Placebo twice daily tablet
Consistent results were observed in the subgroups of patients by evidence of the disease at study entry. 
Patients with CR defined by the investigator had HR 0.34 (95% CI 0.24-0.47); median PFS not 
reached on olaparib vs 15.3 months on placebo. At 24 and 36 months, respectively, 68% and 45% 
patients remained in CR in the olaparib arm, and 34% and 22% of patients in the placebo arm. Patients 
with PR at study entry had PFS HR 0.31 (95% CI 0.18, 0.52; median PFS 30.9 months on olaparib vs 
8.4 months on placebo). Patients with PR at study entry either achieved CR (15% in olaparib arm and 
4% in the placebo arm at 24 months, remained in CR at 36 months) or had further PR/stable disease 
(43% in olaparib arm and 15% in the placebo arm at 24 months; 17% in olaparib arm and 15% in 
placebo arm at 36 months). The proportion of patients who progressed within 6 months of the last dose 
of platinum-based chemotherapy was 3.5% for olaparib and 8.4% for placebo.
Maintenance treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed (PSR) ovarian cancer
SOLO2 Study
The safety and efficacy of olaparib as maintenance therapy were studied in a Phase III randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with germline BRCA1/2-mutated PSR ovarian, 
fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. The study compared the efficacy of Lynparza maintenance 
treatment (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] twice daily) taken until progression with placebo treatment in 
295 patients with high-grade serous or endometrioid PSR ovarian cancer (2:1 randomisation: 196 
olaparib and 99 placebo) who were in response (CR or PR) following completion of 
platinum-containing chemotherapy. 
Patients who have received two or more platinum-containing regimens and whose disease had 
recurred >6 months after completion of penultimate platinum-based chemotherapy were enrolled. 
Patients could not have received prior olaparib or other PARP inhibitor treatment. Patients could have 
received prior bevacizumab, except in the regimen immediately prior to randomisation. 
All patients had evidence of gBRCA1/2m at baseline. Patients with BRCA1/2 mutations were identified 
either from germline testing in blood via a local test or by central testing at Myriad or from testing a 
20
 
 
 
 
tumour sample using a local test. Large rearrangements in the BRCA1/2 genes were detected in 4.7% 
(14/295) of the randomised patients.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
placebo arms. Median age was 56 years in both arms. Ovarian cancer was the primary tumour in 
>80% of the patients. The most common histological type was serous (>90%), endometrioid histology 
was reported in 6% of the patients. In the olaparib arm 55% of the patients had only 2 prior lines of 
treatment with 45% receiving 3 or more prior lines of treatment. In the placebo arm 61% of patients 
had received only 2 prior lines with 39% receiving 3 or more prior lines of treatment. Most patients 
were ECOG performance status 0 (81%), there are no data in patients with performance status 2 to 4. 
Platinum-free interval was >12 months in 60% and >6-12 months in 40% of the patients. Response to 
prior platinum chemotherapy was complete in 47% and partial in 53% of the patients. In the olaparib 
and placebo arms, 17% and 20% of patients had prior bevacizumab, respectively.
The primary endpoint was PFS determined by investigator assessment using RECIST 1.1. Secondary 
efficacy endpoints included PFS2; OS, TDT, TFST, TSST; and HRQoL.
The study met its primary objective demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in 
investigator assessed PFS for olaparib compared with placebo with a HR of 0.30 (95% CI 0.22-0.41; 
p<0.0001; median 19.1 months olaparib vs 5.5 months placebo). The investigator assessment of PFS 
was supported with a blinded independent central radiological review of PFS (HR 0.25; 95% CI 
0.18-0.35; p<0.0001; median 30.2 months for olaparib and 5.5 months placebo). At 2 years, 43% 
olaparib-treated patients remained progression free compared with only 15% placebo-treated patients.
A summary of the primary objective outcome for patients with gBRCA1/2m PSR ovarian cancer in 
SOLO2 is presented in Table 3 and Figure 3.
Table 3
Summary of primary objective outcome for patients with gBRCA1/2m PSR ovarian 
cancer in SOLO2
Olaparib 300 mg tablet bd 
Placebo
PFS (63% maturity)
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
HR (95% CI) a
P value (2-sided)
107:196 (55)
19.1 (16.3-25.7)
0.30 (0.22-0.41)
p<0.0001
80:99 (81)
5.5 (5.2-5.8)
a
bd
HR= Hazard Ratio. A value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazard model 
including response to previous platinum chemotherapy (CR or PR), and time to disease progression (>6-12 months 
and >12 months) in the penultimate platinum-based chemotherapy as covariates.
Twice daily; PFS progression-free survival; CI confidence interval 
21
Figure 3
SOLO2: Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS in patients with gBRCA1/2m PSR ovarian 
cancer (63% maturity - investigator assessment)
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
- - - - - - - - - Placebo bd --------------Olaparib 300 mg bd
Number of patients at risk:
196
99
182
70
156
37
134
22
118
18
104
17
89
14
82
12
32
7
29
6
3
0
2
0
0
0
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Placebo bd
bd Twice daily; PFS Progression free survival
At the final analysis of OS (61% maturity) the HR was 0.74 (95% CI 0.54-1.00; p=0.0537; median 
51.7 months for olaparib vs 38.8 months for placebo) which did not reach statistical significance. The 
secondary endpoints TFST and PFS2 demonstrated a persistent and statistically significant 
improvement for olaparib compared with placebo. Results for OS, TFST and PFS2 are presented in 
Table 4 and Figure 4.
22
 
 
 
 
Table 4
Summary of key secondary objective outcomes for patients with gBRCA1/2m PSR 
ovarian cancer in SOLO2
Olaparib 300 mg tablet bd 
Placebo
OS (61% maturity)
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
Median time (95% CI), months
HR (95% CI) a
P value (2-sided)
TFST (71% maturity)
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
HR (95% CI) a
P value* (2-sided)
PFS2 (40% maturity)
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
HR (95% CI) a
P value (2-sided)
116:196 (59)
65:99 (66)
51.7 (41.5, 59.1)
0.74 (0.54-1.00)
p=0.0537
139:196 (71)
27.4 (22.6-31.1)
0.37 (0.28-0.48)
p<0.0001
38.8 (31.4, 48.6)
86:99 (87)
7.2 (6.3-8.5)
70:196 (36)
49:99 (50) 
NR (24.1-NR)
0.50 (0.34-0.72) 
p=0.0002
18.4 (15.4-22.8)
*
a
bd
Not controlled for multiplicity.
HR= Hazard Ratio. A value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazard model 
including response to previous platinum chemotherapy (CR or PR), and time to disease progression (>6-12 months 
and >12 months) in the penultimate platinum-based chemotherapy as covariates.
Twice daily; NR not reached; CI confidence interval; PFS2 time from randomisation to second progression or death; 
TFST Time from randomisation to start of first subsequent therapy or death. 
23
Figure 4
SOLO2: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS in patients with gBRCA1/2m PSR ovarian 
cancer (61% maturity)
Olaparib 300mg twice daily tablet
Placebo twice daily tablet
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300mg twice daily tablet
Placebo twice daily tablet
Among the patients entering the trial with measurable disease (target lesions at baseline), an objective 
response rate of 41% was achieved in the Lynparza arm versus 17% on placebo. Of patients treated 
with Lynparza, who entered the study with evidence of disease (target or non-target lesions at 
baseline), 15.0% experienced complete response compared with 9.1% of patients on placebo.
At the time of the analysis of PFS the median duration of treatment was 19.4 months for olaparib and 
5.6 months for placebo. The majority of patients remained on the 300 mg bd starting dose of olaparib. 
The incidence of dose interruptions, reductions, discontinuations due to an adverse event was 45.1%,
25.1% and 10.8%, respectively. Dose interruptions occurred most frequently in the first 3 months and 
dose reductions in the first 3-6 months of treatment. The most frequent adverse reactions leading to 
dose interruption or dose reduction were anaemia, nausea and vomiting.
Patient-reported outcome (PRO) data indicate no difference for the olaparib-treated patients as 
compared to placebo as assessed by the change from baseline in the TOI of the FACT-O.
Study 19 (D0810C00019) 
The safety and efficacy of olaparib as a maintenance therapy in the treatment of PSR ovarian, 
including fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer patients, following treatment with two or more 
platinum-containing regimens, were studied in a large Phase II randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial (Study 19). The study compared the efficacy of Lynparza maintenance 
treatment taken until progression with placebo treatment in 265 (136 olaparib and 129 placebo) PSR 
high grade serous ovarian cancer patients who were in response (CR or PR) following completion of 
platinum-containing chemotherapy. The primary endpoint was PFS based on investigator assessment 
24
 
 
 
 
using RECIST 1.0. Secondary efficacy endpoints included OS, disease control rate (DCR) defined as 
confirmed CR/PR + SD (stable disease), HRQoL and disease related symptoms. Exploratory analyses 
of TFST and TSST were also performed.
Patients whose disease had recurred >6 months after completion of penultimate platinum-based 
chemotherapy were enrolled. Enrolment did not require evidence of BRCA1/2 mutation (BRCA
mutation status for some patients was determined retrospectively). Patients could not have received 
prior olaparib or other PARP inhibitor treatment. Patients could have received prior bevacizumab, 
except in the regimen immediately prior to randomisation. Retreatment with olaparib was not 
permitted following progression on olaparib.
Patients with BRCA1/2 mutations were identified either from germline testing in blood via a local test 
or by central testing at Myriad or from testing a tumour sample using a test performed by Foundation 
Medicine. Large rearrangements in the BRCA1/2 genes were detected in 7.4% (10/136) of the 
randomised patients.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
placebo arms. Median age was 59 years in both arms. Ovarian cancer was the primary tumour in 86% 
of the patients. In the olaparib arm 44% of the patients had only 2 prior lines of treatment with 56% 
receiving 3 or more prior lines of treatment. In the placebo arm 49% of patients had received only 2 
prior lines with 51% receiving 3 or more prior lines of treatment. Most patients were ECOG 
performance status 0 (77%), there are no data in patients with performance status 2 to 4. Platinum-free 
interval was > 12 months in 60% and 6-12 months in 40% of the patients. Response to prior platinum 
chemotherapy was complete in 45% and partial in 55% of the patients. In the olaparib and placebo 
arms, 6% and 5% of patients had prior bevacizumab, respectively.
The study met its primary objective demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in PFS for 
olaparib compared with placebo in the overall population with a HR of 0.35 (95% CI 0.25-0.49; 
p<0.00001; median 8.4 months olaparib vs 4.8 months placebo). At the final OS analysis (data cut off 
[DCO] 9 May 2016) at 79% maturity, the hazard ratio comparing olaparib with placebo was 0.73 
(95% CI 0.55-0.95; p=0.02138 [did not meet pre-specified significance level of <0.0095]; median 
29.8 months olaparib versus 27.8 months placebo). In the olaparib-treated group, 23.5% (n=32/136) of 
patients remained on treatment for ≥2 years as compared with 3.9% (n=5/128) of the patients on 
placebo. Although patient numbers were limited, 13.2% (n=18/136) of the patients in the
olaparib-treated group remained on treatment for ≥5 years as compared with 0.8% (n=1/128) in the 
placebo group.
Preplanned subgroup analysis identified patients with BRCA1/2-mutated ovarian cancer (n=136, 
51.3%; including 20 patients identified with a somatic tumour BRCA1/2 mutation) as the subgroup 
that derived the greatest clinical benefit from olaparib maintenance monotherapy. A benefit was also 
observed in patients with BRCA1/2 wild-type/variants of uncertain significance (BRCA1/2 wt/VUS), 
although of a lesser magnitude. There was no strategy for multiple testing in place for the sub-group 
analyses.
A summary of the primary objective outcome for patients with BRCA1/2-mutated and BRCA1/2
wt/VUS PSR ovarian cancer in Study 19 is presented in Table 5 and for all patients in Study 19 in 
Table 5 and Figure 5.
25
Table 5
Summary of primary objective outcome for all patients and patients with BRCA1/2-
mutated and BRCA1/2 wt/VUS PSR ovarian cancer in Study 19
All patientsa
BRCA1/2-mutated
BRCA1/2 wt/VUS
Olaparib
Placebo
Olaparib
Placebo
Olaparib
Placebo
PFS – DCO 30 June 2010
Number of 
events: Total 
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months) (95% 
CI)
60:136 (44)
94:129 (73)
26:74 (35)
46:62 (74)
32:57 (56)
44:61 (72)
8.4
(7.4-11.5)
4.8
(4.0-5.5)
11.2 
(8.3-NR)
4.3 
(3.0-5.4)
7.4
(5.5-10.3)
5.5
(3.7-5.6)
HR (95% CI) b
0.35 (0.25-0.49)
0.18 (0.10–0.31)
0.54 (0.34-0.85)
P value 
(2-sided) 
p<0.00001
p<0.00001
p=0.00745
a
b
All patients comprises of the following subgroups: BRCA1/2-mutated, BRCA1/2 wt/VUS and BRCA1/2 status 
unknown (11 patients with status unknown, not shown as a separate subgroup in table). 
HR= Hazard Ratio. A value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards 
model with factors for treatment, ethnic descent, platinum sensitivity and response to final platinum therapy.
PFS progression-free survival; DCO data cut off; CI confidence interval; NR not reached.
Figure 5
Study 19: Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS in the FAS (58% maturity - investigator 
assessment) DCO 30 June 2010
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
--------------Placebo - - - - - - - - - Olaparib
Number of patients at risk:
136
129
106
72
53
24
24
7
7
1
0
0
Olaparib
Placebo 
DCO Data cut-off; FAS Full analysis set; PFS progression-free survival
A summary of key secondary objective outcomes for patients with BRCA1/2-mutated and BRCA1/2
wt/VUS PSR ovarian cancer in Study 19 is presented in Table 6 and for all patients in Study 19 in 
Table 6 and Figure 6.
26
 
 
 
 
Table 6
Summary of key secondary objective outcomes for all patients and patients with 
BRCA1/2-mutated and BRCA1/2 wt/VUS PSR ovarian cancer in Study 19
BRCA1/2 wt/VUS
BRCA1/2-mutated
All patientsa
Olaparib
Placebo
Olaparib
Placebo
Olaparib
Placebo
OS - DCO 09 May 2016
Number of 
events: Total 
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months) 
(95% CI)
98:136 (72)
112:129 
(87)
49:74 (66) 
50:62 (81) c
45:57 (79)
57:61 (93)
29.8
(26.9-35.7)
27.8
(24.9-33.7)
34.9 
(29.2-54.6)
30.2 
(23.1-40.7)
24.5
(19.8-35.0)
26.6
(23.1-32.5)
HR (95% CI)b
0.73 (0.55–0.95)
0.62 (0.42–0.93)
0.84 (0.57-1.25)
P value*
(2-sided)
p=0.02138
p=0.02140
p=0.39749
TFST – DCO 09 May 2016
Number of 
events: Total 
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months) 
(95% CI)
106:136 
(78)
124:128 
(97)
55:74 (74)
59:62 (95)
47:57 (83)
60:61 (98)
13.3
(11.3-15.7)
6.7
(5.7-8.2)
15.6
(11.9-28.2)
6.2
(5.3-9.2)
12.9
(7.8-15.3)
6.9
(5.7-9.3)
HR (95% CI)b
0.39 (0.30–0.52)
0.33 (0.22-0.49)
0.45 (0.30-0.66)
P value*
(2-sided) 
p<0.00001
p<0.00001
p=0.00006
*            There was no strategy for multiple testing in place for the sub-group analyses or for the all patients TFST.
a
All patients comprises of the following subgroups: BRCA1/2-mutated, BRCA1/2 wt/VUS and BRCA1/2 status unknown 
(11 patients with status unknown, not shown as a separate subgroup in table). 
HR= Hazard Ratio. A value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards model 
with factors for treatment, ethnic descent, platinum sensitivity and response to final platinum therapy.
Approximately a quarter of placebo-treated patients in the BRCA-mutated subgroup (14/62; 22.6%) received a 
subsequent PARP inhibitor.
b
c
OS Overall survival; DCO data cut off; CI confidence interval; TFST time from randomisation to start of first subsequent 
therapy or death.
27
Figure 6
Study 19: Kaplan Meier plot of OS in the FAS (79% maturity) DCO 09 May 
2016
e
v
i
l
a
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
--------------Placebo - - - - - - - - - Olaparib
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib
Placebo
DCO Data cut off; FAS Full analysis set; OS Overall survival
At the time of the analysis of PFS the median duration of treatment was 8 months for olaparib and 4 
months for placebo. The majority of patients remained on the starting dose of olaparib. The incidence 
of dose interruptions, reductions and discontinuations due to an adverse event was 34.6%, 25.7% and 
5.9%, respectively. Dose interruptions and reductions occurred most frequently in the first 3 months of 
treatment. The most frequent adverse reactions leading to dose interruption or dose reduction were 
nausea, anaemia, vomiting, neutropenia and fatigue. The incidence of anaemia adverse reactions was 
22.8% (CTCAE grade ≥3 7.4%).
Patient-reported outcome (PRO) data indicate no difference for the olaparib-treated patients as 
compared to placebo as measured by improvement and worsening rates in the TOI and FACT-O total.
OPINION Study
OPINION, a Phase IIIb single arm, multicentre study, investigated olaparib as a maintenance 
treatment in patients with PSR ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer following 2 or 
more lines of platinum based chemotherapy and who did not have a known deleterious or suspected 
deleterious gBRCA mutation. Patients whose disease was in response (CR or PR) following 
completion of platinum-based chemotherapy were enrolled. A total of 279 patients were enrolled and 
received olaparib treatment in this study until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Based on 
central testing 90.7% were confirmed with a non gBRCAm status, in addition 9.7% were identified as 
sBRCAm.
The primary endpoint was investigator-assessed PFS according to modified RECIST v1.1. Secondary 
endpoints included OS.
Olaparib, when used as maintenance therapy, demonstrated clinical activity in patients with non-
28
       
 
 
 
gBRCAm PSR ovarian cancer. At the final overall survival analysis (DCO 17 September 2021), the 
OS data were 52.3% mature. 
A summary of the primary PFS and OS secondary objective outcome for patients with non-gBRCAm 
PSR ovarian cancer in OPINION is presented in Table 7.
Table 7 Summary of key objective outcome for non-gBRCAm patients with PSR ovarian cancer in 
OPINION
Olaparib tablets 300 mg bd
PFS (75% maturity) (DCO 2 October 2020)
Number of events: total number of patients (%)
Median PFS (95% CI), monthsa
OS (52.3% maturity) (DCO 17 September 2021)
Number of events: total number of patients (%)
Median OS (95% CI), monthsa
a Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique.
Confidence intervals for median PFS and OS were derived based on Brookmeyer Crowley method.
bd Twice daily; PFS Progression-free survival; OS Overall survival; DCO Data cut off; CI Confidence interval.
146: 279 (52.3)
32.7 (29.5, 35.3)
210: 279 (75.3)
9.2 (7.6, 10.9)
First-line maintenance treatment of HRD positive advanced ovarian cancer
PAOLA-1 Study
PAOLA-1 was a Phase III randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trial that 
compared the efficacy and safety of Lynparza (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] twice daily) in 
combination with bevacizumab (15 mg/kg of body weight given once every 3 weeks as an intravenous 
infusion) versus placebo plus bevacizumab for the maintenance treatment of advanced (FIGO Stage 
III-IV) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer following first-line 
platinum-based chemotherapy and bevacizumab. Treatment with bevacizumab was for a total of up to 
15 months/22 cycles, including the period given with chemotherapy and given as maintenance.
The study randomised 806 patients (2:1 randomisation: 537 olaparib/bevacizumab: 269 
placebo/bevacizumab) who had no evidence of disease (NED) due to complete surgical resection, or 
who were in complete response (CR), or partial response (PR) following completion of first-line 
platinum-containing chemotherapy and bevacizumab. Patients had completed a minimum of 4 and a 
maximum of 9 cycles, with the majority (63%) having received 6 cycles of first line platinum-taxane 
based chemotherapy, including a minimum of 2 cycles of bevacizumab in combination with the 3 last 
cycles of chemotherapy. The median number of bevacizumab cycles prior to randomisation was 5.
Patients were stratified by first-line treatment outcome (timing and outcome of cytoreductive surgery 
and response to platinum-based chemotherapy) and tBRCAm status, determined by prospective local 
testing. Patients continued bevacizumab in the maintenance setting and started treatment with 
Lynparza after a minimum of 3 weeks and up to a maximum of 9 weeks following completion of their 
last dose of chemotherapy. Treatment with Lynparza was continued until progression of the 
underlying disease, unacceptable toxicity or for up to 2 years. Patients who in the opinion of the 
treating physician could derive further benefit from continuous treatment could be treated beyond 2 
years.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were balanced between both arms in the ITT population and 
in the biomarker-defined sub-groups by tBRCAm (prospectively and retrospectively defined), GIS and 
HRD status (defined in this study by a combination of both biomarkers). The median age of patients 
was 61 years overall. Most patients in both arms were ECOG performance status 0 (70%). Ovarian 
cancer was the primary tumour in 86% of the patients. The most common histological type was serous 
29
(96%) and endometrioid histology was reported in 2% of the patients. Most patients were diagnosed in 
FIGO stage IIIC (63%). All patients had received first-line platinum-based therapy and bevacizumab. 
Patients were not restricted by the surgical outcome with 63% having complete cytoreduction at initial 
or interval debulking surgery and 37% having residual macroscopic disease. Thirty percent (30%) of 
patients in both arms were tBRCAm at screening. Demographic and baseline characteristics in the 
biomarker sub-groups were consistent with those in the ITT population. In the HRD-positive 
subgroup, 65% of patients had complete cytoreduction and 35% of patients had residual macroscopic 
disease. In the overall patient population enrolled, 30% of patients in both arms were tBRCAm 
(deleterious/pathogenic mutation) at screening by local testing and for 4% of patients the BRCAm 
status was unknown. Retrospective analysis of available clinical samples was conducted in 97% of 
patients to confirm tBRCAm status and investigate genomic instability score as described above. 
Among non-tBRCAm patients, 29% (19% of the overall population) had positive GIS pre-defined in 
this study as composite score ≥42. When tBRCAm status and positive GIS were combined, patients 
with HRD-positive, HRD-negative and HRD unknown status in their tumours represented 48%, 34% 
and 18% of the overall patient population.  
The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time from randomisation to 
progression determined by investigator assessment using modified Response Evaluation Criteria in 
Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, or death. Secondary efficacy endpoints included time from randomisation 
to second progression or death (PFS2), overall survival (OS), time from randomisation to first 
subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death (TFST) and health related quality of life (HRQoL). Patients 
had RECIST 1.1 tumour assessments at baseline and every 24 weeks (CT/MRI at 12 weeks if clinical 
or CA 125 progression) for up to 42 months or until objective radiological disease progression. 
The study met its primary endpoint in the ITT population demonstrating a statistically significant 
improvement in investigator assessed PFS for olaparib/bevacizumab compared to 
placebo/bevacizumab (HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.49-0.72, p<0.0001 with a median of 22.1 months for 
olaparib/bevacizumab vs 16.6 months for placebo/bevacizumab). This was consistent with a BICR 
analysis of PFS. However, patients defined as biomarker-positive (tBRCAm, GIS, HRD status positive 
defined as tBRCAm and/or GIS positive) derived most of the benefit. 
Final analysis of PFS2 (DCO 22 March 2020, 53% maturity) in the overall population was statistically 
significant (HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.64-0.95, p=0.0125 with a median of 36.5 months for olaparib/ 
bevacizumab vs 32.6 months for placebo/bevacizumab). 
At the final analysis of OS (DCO 22 March 2022) in the HRD status positive patients (tBRCAm and/or 
GIS), there was a numerical improvement in OS with olaparib/bevacizumab arm vs 
placebo/bevacizumab arm (see Table 8).
In the tBRCAm as randomised subgroup (241/806 patients) median PFS for the olaparib/bevacizumab 
arm was 37.2 months vs 22.0 months for the placebo/bevacizumab arm (HR=0.34, 95% CI 0.23, 0.51).
At the final overall survival analysis (DCO 22 March 2022), the tBRCAm as randomised subgroup 
demonstrates a numerical reduction in the risk of death for olaparib/bevacizumab compared to 
placebo/bevacizumab (HR 0.63; 95% CI 0.41, 0.97).
Efficacy results in other biomarkers subgroup analyses based on retrospectively analysed tumour 
samples are presented in Table 8. 
30
Table 8
Summary of key efficacy findings for patients with homologous recombination 
deficiency (HRD) positive status defined by either tBRCAm and/or GIS in 
advanced ovarian cancer patients in PAOLA-1
tBRCAm*, c
(n=235)
GIS positive (HRD 
positive excluding 
tBRCAm)*, d
(n=152)
HRD positive*
(n=387)
Olaparib/ 
bevacizumab
Placebo/ 
bevacizumab
Olaparib/ 
bevacizumab
Placebo/ 
bevacizumab
Olaparib/ 
bevacizumab
Placebo/ 
bevacizumab
PFS, investigator assessment (46% maturity) DCO 22 March 2019a
Number of 
events: Total
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months)
44:158 (28)
52:77 (68)
43:97 (44)
40:55 (73)
87:255 (34)
92:132 (70)
37.2
18.8
28.1
16.6
37.2
17.7
HR (95%) CIb
0.28 (0.19, 0.42)
0.43 (0.28, 0.66)
0.33 (0.25, 0.45)
PFS2, investigator assessment (40% maturity) DCO 22 March 2020
Number of 
events: Total 
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months)
44:158 (28)
37:77 (48)
41:97 (42)
33:55 (60)
85:255 (33)
70:132 (53)
NR
42.2
50.3
30.1
50.3
35.4
HR (95%) CIb
0.53 (0.34, 0.82)
0.60 (0.38, 0.96)
0.56 (0.41, 0.77)
Final OS (42% maturity) DCO 22 March 2022
Number of 
events: Total 
number of 
patients (%)
Median time 
(months)
49:158 
(31.0)
37:77 (48.1)
44:97
(45.4)
32:55 (58.2)
93:255
(36.5)
69:132 (52.3)
75.2
66.9
NR
52.0
75.2
57.3
HR (95%) CIb
0.57 (0.37, 0.88)
0.71 (0.45, 1.13)
0.62 (0.45, 0.85)
* Pre-planned subgroup
a Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the proportion of patients that were progression free at 12 and 24 months were 89% and 
66% for olaparib/bevacizumab versus 71% and 29% for placebo/bevacizumab.
31
b A value <1 favours olaparib. The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards model stratified by first line 
treatment outcome at screening and screening laboratory tBRCA status.
c tBRCAm status by Myriad
d HRD positive excluding tBRCAm was defined as Genomic instability score (GIS) by Myriad ≥42 (pre-specified cut-off)
CI Confidence interval; HR Hazard ratio; NR not reached
Figure 7
PAOLA-1: Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for patients with advanced ovarian cancer 
defined as HRD positive in PAOLA-1 (46% maturity - investigator assessment)
Olaparib + bevacizumab
Placebo + bevacizumab
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib + bevacizumab
Placebo + bevacizumab
32
 
 
 
 
Figure 8
PAOLA-1: Kaplan-Meier Plot, Final Overall Survival by HRD Status Positive 
(including tBRCAm) (DCO 22 March 2022)
e
e
r
f
t
n
e
v
e
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Olaparib + bevacizumab
Placebo + bevacizumab
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib + bevacizumab
Placebo + bevacizumab
Adjuvant treatment of germline BRCA-mutated high risk early breast cancer
OlympiA 
The safety and efficacy of olaparib as adjuvant treatment in patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutations 
and HER2-negative high risk early breast cancer who had completed definitive local treatment and 
neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy was studied in a Phase III randomised, double-blind, parallel 
group, placebo-controlled, multicentre study (OlympiA). Patients were required to have completed at 
least 6 cycles of neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy containing anthracyclines, taxanes or both. 
Prior platinum for previous cancer (e.g. ovarian) or as adjuvant or neoadjuvant treatment for breast 
cancer was allowed. High risk early breast cancer patients were defined as follows:
•
patients who received prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy: patients with either triple negative 
breast cancer (TNBC) or hormone receptor positive breast cancer must have had residual 
invasive cancer in the breast and/or the resected lymph nodes (non-pathologic complete 
response) at the time of surgery. Additionally, patients with hormone receptor positive breast 
cancer must have had a CPS&EG score of ≥3 based on pre-treatment clinical and 
post-treatment pathologic stage (CPS), estrogen receptor (ER) status and histologic grade as 
shown in Table 9.
Table 9
Early Breast Cancer Stage, Receptor Status and Grade Scoring Requirements 
for Study Enrolment*
                       Stage/feature
Clinical Stage 
(pre-treatment)
Pathologic Stage 
(post-treatment)
I/IIA
IIB/IIIA
IIIB/IIIC
0/I
IIA/IIB/IIIA/IIIB
IIIC
33
Points
0
1
2
0
1
2
 
 
 
 
                       Stage/feature
Receptor status
ER positive
ER negative
Nuclear grade 1-2
Nuclear grade 3
* Total score of ≥3 required for patients with hormone receptor positive breast cancer.
Nuclear grade
Points
0
1
0
1
•
patients who have received prior adjuvant chemotherapy: triple negative breast cancer 
(TNBC) patients must have had node positive disease or node negative disease with a ≥2 cm
primary tumour; HR positive, HER2-negative patients must have had ≥4 pathologically 
confirmed positive lymph nodes. 
Patients were randomised (1:1) to either olaparib 300 mg (2 x 150 mg tablets) twice daily (n=921) or 
placebo (n=915). Randomisation was stratified by hormone receptor status (HR positive/ HER2 
negative versus TNBC), by prior neoadjuvant versus adjuvant chemotherapy, and by prior platinum 
use for current breast cancer (yes versus no). Treatment was continued for up to 1 year, or until disease 
recurrence, or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with HR positive tumours also received endocrine 
therapy.
The primary endpoint was invasive disease free survival (IDFS), defined as the time from 
randomisation to date of first recurrence, where recurrence is defined as invasive loco-regional, distant 
recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, new cancer or death from any cause. Secondary 
objectives included OS, distant disease free survival (DDFS, defined as the time from randomisation 
until evidence of first distant recurrence of breast cancer), the incidence of new primary contralateral 
breast cancers (invasive and non-invasive), new primary ovarian cancer, new primary fallopian tube 
cancer and new primary peritoneal cancer, and patient reported outcomes (PRO) using the FACIT-
Fatigue and EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaires.
Central testing at Myriad or local gBRCA testing, if available, was used to establish study eligibility. 
Patients enrolled based on local gBRCA test results provided a sample for retrospective confirmatory 
testing. Out of 1836 patients enrolled into OlympiA, 1623 were confirmed as gBRCAm by central 
testing, either prospectively or retrospectively. 
Demographic and baseline characteristics were well balanced between the two treatment arms. The 
median age was 42 years. Sixty-seven percent (67%) of patients were White, 29% Asian and 2.6% 
Black. Two patients (0.2%) in the olaparib arm and four patients (0.4%) in the placebo arm were male. 
Sixty-one percent (61%) of patients were pre-menopausal. Eighty-nine percent (89%) of patients were 
ECOG performance status 0 and 11% ECOG PS 1. Eighty-two percent (82%) of patients had TNBC 
and 18% had HR positive disease. Fifty percent (50%) of patients had received prior neoadjuvant and 
50% received prior adjuvant chemotherapy. Ninety-four percent (94%) of patients received 
anthracycline and taxane. Twenty-six percent (26%) of patients overall had received prior platinum for 
breast cancer. In the olaparib and placebo arms, 87% and 92% of patients with HR positive disease 
were receiving concomitant endocrine therapy, respectively. Overall, 89.5% of patients with HR 
positive disease received an endocrine therapy, which included letrozole (23.7%), tamoxifen (40.9%), 
anastrozole (17.2%), or exemestane (14.8%).
The study met its primary endpoint demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in IDFS in 
the olaparib arm compared with the placebo arm. Two hundred and eighty-four (284) patients had 
IDFS events, this represented 12% of patients in the olaparib arm (distant 8%, local/regional 1.4%, 
contralateral invasive breast cancer 0.9%, non-breast second primary malignancies 1.2%, death 0.2%) 
and 20% of patients in the placebo arm (distant 13%, local/regional 2.7%, contralateral invasive breast 
cancer 1.3%, non-breast second primary malignancies 2.3%, death 0%). A statistically significant 
improvement in DDFS in the olaparib arm compared with the placebo arm was also observed. At the 
34
next planned OS analysis, a statistically significant improvement in OS was observed in the olaparib 
arm compared with the placebo arm. Efficacy results in the FAS are presented in Table 10 and 
Figures 9 and 10.
Table 10
Efficacy results for adjuvant treatment of patients with germline BRCA-mutated 
early breast cancer in OlympiA
Olaparib 300 mg bd
(N=921)
Placebo
(N=915)
IDFS (15% maturity) – DCO 27 March 2020
77 (74, 80)
178:915 (20)
106:921 (12)
0.58 (0.41, 0.82)
0.0000073
Number of events: Total number of patients (%) 
HR (99.5% CI)a
P value (2-sided)b
Percentage (95% CI) of patients invasive disease                               
86 (83, 88)
free at 3 yearsc
DDFS (13% maturity) – DCO 27 March 2020
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
HR (99.5% CI)a
P value (2-sided)b
Percentage (95% CI) of patients distant disease 
free at 3 yearsc
OS (10% maturity) – DCO 12 July 2021
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
HR (98.5% CI)a
P value (2-sided)b
Percentage (95% CI) of patients alive at 3 yearsc
Percentage (95% CI) of patients alive at 4 yearsc
a Based on the stratified Cox's proportional hazards model, <1 indicates a lower risk with olaparib compared with placebo 
0.68 (0.47, 0.97)
0.0091
0.57 (0.39, 0.83)
0.0000257
89 (87, 91)
86 (84, 89)
93 (91, 94)
90 (87, 92)
152:915 (17)
109:915 (12)
89:921 (10)
88 (85, 90)
80 (77, 83)
75:921 (8)
arm.
P-value from a stratified log-rank test. 
Percentages are calculated using KM estimates.
b
c
bd = twice daily; CI = confidence interval; DDFS = distant disease free survival; IDFS = invasive disease free survival; KM 
= Kaplan-Meier; OS = overall survival.
35
Figure 9
Kaplan-Meier plot of IDFS for adjuvant treatment of patients with germline 
BRCA-mutated high risk early breast cancer in OlympiA
e
e
r
f
e
s
a
e
s
i
d
e
v
i
s
a
v
n
i
d
n
a
e
v
i
l
a
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
Olaparib
Placebo
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Placebo
Months since randomisation 
Figure 10
Kaplan-Meier plot of OS for adjuvant treatment of patients with germline 
BRCA-mutated high risk early breast cancer in OlympiA
e
v
i
l
a
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
Olaparib
Placebo
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Placebo
Months since randomisation 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gBRCA1/2-mutated HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer
OlympiAD (Study D0819C00003) 
The safety and efficacy of olaparib in patients with gBRCA1/2-mutations who had HER2-negative 
metastatic breast cancer were studied in a Phase III randomised, open-label, controlled trial 
(OlympiAD). In this study 302 patients with a documented deleterious or suspected deleterious 
gBRCA mutation were randomised 2:1 to receive either Lynparza (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] twice 
daily) or physician’s choice of chemotherapy (capecitabine 42%, eribulin 35%, or vinorelbine 17%)
until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with BRCA1/2 mutations were identified from 
germline testing in blood via a local test or by central testing at Myriad. Patients were stratified based 
on: receipt of prior chemotherapy regimens for metastatic breast cancer (yes/no), hormone receptor
(HR) positive vs triple negative (TNBC), prior platinum treatment for breast cancer (yes/no). The 
primary endpoint was PFS assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR) using RECIST 1.1. 
Secondary endpoints included PFS2, OS, objective response rate (ORR) and HRQoL.
Patients must have received treatment with an anthracycline unless contraindicated and a taxane in 
either a (neo)adjuvant or metastatic setting. Patients with HR+ (ER and/or PgR positive) tumours must 
have received and progressed on at least one endocrine therapy (adjuvant or metastatic) or had disease 
that the treating physician believed to be inappropriate for endocrine therapy. Prior therapy with 
platinum was allowed in the metastatic setting provided there had been no evidence of disease 
progression during platinum treatment and in the (neo)adjuvant setting provided the last dose was 
received at least 12 months prior to randomisation. No previous treatment with a PARP inhibitor, 
including olaparib, was permitted.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
comparator arms (see Table 11).
Table 11 Patient demographic and baseline characteristics in OlympiAD
Olaparib 300 mg bd
n=205
Chemotherapy
n=97
Age - year (median)
44
Gender (%)
Female
Male
Race (%)
White
Asian
Other
ECOG performance status (%)
0
1
Overall disease classification
Metastatic
Locally advanced
200 (98)
5 (2)
134 (65)
66 (32)
5 (2)
148 (72)
57 (28)
205 (100)
0
New metastatic breast cancer (%)
26 (13)
Hormone receptor status (%)
HR+
103 (50)
37
45
95 (98)
2 (2)
63 (65)
28 (29)
6 (6)
62 (64)
35 (36)
97 (100)
0 
12 (12)
49 (51)
TNBC
gBRCA mutation type (%)
gBRCA1
gBRCA2
gBRCA1 and gBRCA2
≥2 Metastatic sites (%)
Location of the metastasis (%)
Bone only
Other
Measurable disease by BICR (%)
Progressive disease at time of 
randomization (%)
Tumour grade at diagnosis
Well differentiated (G1)
Moderately differentiated (G2)
Poorly differentiated (G3)
Undifferentiated (G4)
Unassessable (GX)
Missing 
102 (50)
117 (57)
84 (41)
4 (2)
159 (78)
16 (8)
189 (92)
167 (81)
159 (78)
5 (2)
52 (25)
108 (53)
4 (2)
27 (13)
9 (4)
Number of prior lines of chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer (%)
0
1
2
Previous platinum-based therapy 
(%)
in (neo)adjuvant setting only
metastatic setting only
68 (33)
80 (39)
57 (28)
55 (27)
12 (6)
40 (20)
in (neo)adjuvant and metastatic setting
3 (1)
Previous anthracycline treatment
in (neo) adjuvant setting
metastatic setting
Previous taxane treatment
in (neo)adjuvant setting
metastatic setting
Previous anthracycline and taxane 
treatment
169 (82)
41 (20)
146 (71)
107 (52)
204 (99.5)
48 (49)
51 (53)
46 (47)
0
72 (74)
6 (6)
91 (94)
66 (68)
73 (75)
2 (2)
23 (24)
55 (57)
0
15 (16)
2 (2)
31 (32)
42 (43)
24 (25)
21 (22)
6 (6)
14 (14)
1 (1)
76 (78)
16 (17)
66 (68)
41 (42)
96 (99)
As subsequent therapy, 0.5% and 8% of patients received a PARP inhibitor in the treatment and 
comparator arms, respectively; 29% and 42% of patients, respectively, received subsequent platinum 
therapy.
A statistically significant improvement in PFS, the primary efficacy outcome, was demonstrated for 
olaparib-treated patients compared with those in the comparator arm (see Table 12 and Figure 11). 
38
Table 12
Summary of key efficacy findings for patients with gBRCA1/2-mutated HER2-
negative metastatic breast cancer in OlympiAD
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Chemotherapy
PFS (77% maturity) – DCO 09 December 2016
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
163:205 (80)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
7.0 (5.7-8.3)
HR (95% CI)
P value (2-sided)a
0.58 (0.43-0.80)
p=0.0009
PFS2 (65% maturity) - DCO 25 September 2017b
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
130:205 (63)
71:97 (73)
4.2 (2.8-4.3)
65:97 (67)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
12.8 (10.9-14.3)
9.4 (7.4-10.3)
HR (95% CI)
P value (2-sided)a
0.55 (0.39-0.77)
p=0.0005
OS (64% maturity) – DCO 25 September 2017
Number of events: Total number of 
patients (%)
130:205 (63)
62:97 (64)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
19.3 (17.2-21.6)c
17.1 (13.9-21.9)
HR (95% CI)
P value (2-sided)a
0.90 (0.66-1.23)
p=0.5131
Confirmed ORR – DCO 09 December 2016
Number of objective responders: Total 
number of patients with measurable 
disease (%)
87: 167 (52)d
15:66 (23)
95% CI
44.2-59.9
13.3-35.7
DOR – DCO 09 December 2016
Median, months (95% CI)
6.9 (4.2, 10.2)
7.9 (4.5, 12.2)
a
b
c
d
bd
Based on stratified log-rank test.
Post-hoc analysis.
The median follow-up time in censored patients was 25.3 months for olaparib versus 26.3 months for comparator.
Confirmed responses (by BICR) were defined as a recorded response of either CR/PR, confirmed by repeat imaging not 
less than 4 weeks after the visit when the response was first observed. In the olaparib arm 8% with measurable disease 
had a complete response versus 1.5% of patients in the comparator arm; 74/167 (44%) of patients in the olaparib arm 
had a partial response versus 14/66 (21%) of patients in the chemotherapy arm. In the TNBC patient subgroup the 
confirmed ORR was 48% (41/86) in the olaparib arm and 12% (4/33) in the comparator arm. In the HR+ patient 
subgroup the confirmed ORR was 57% (46/81) in the olaparib arm and 33% (11/33) in the comparator arm.
Twice daily; CI Confidence interval; DOR Duration of response; DCO Data cut off; HR Hazard ratio; HR+ Hormone 
receptor positive, ORR Objective response rate; OS overall survival; PFS progression-free survival; PFS2 Time to 
second progression or death, TNBC triple negative breast cancer.
39
Figure 11
OlympiAD: Kaplan-Meier plot of BICR PFS in patients with gBRCA1/2-mutated
HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (77% maturity) DCO 09 December 2016
Chemotherapy (N = 97)
Olaparib 300 mg twice daily (N = 205)
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk
Olaparib 300 mg twice daily tablet
Chemotherapy
Consistent results were observed in all predefined patient subgroups (see Figure 12). Subgroup 
analysis indicated PFS benefit of olaparib versus comparator in TNBC (HR 0.43; 95% CI: 0.29-0.63, 
n=152) and HR+ (HR 0.82; 95% CI: 0.55-1.26, n=150) patient subgroups.
40
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12 PFS (BICR), Forest plot, by prespecified subgroup
In a post-hoc analysis of the subgroup of patients that had not progressed on chemotherapy other than 
platinum, the median PFS in the olaparib arm (n=22) was 8.3 months (95% CI 3.1-16.7) and 2.8 
months (95% CI 1.4-4.2) in the chemotherapy arm (n=16) with a HR of 0.54 (95% CI 0.24-1.23).
However, the number of patients is too limited to make meaningful conclusions on the efficacy in this 
subgroup. 
Seven male patients were randomised (5 olaparib and 2 comparator). At the time of the PFS analysis, 
1 patient had a confirmed partial response with a duration of response of 9.7 months in the olaparib 
arm. There were no confirmed responses in the comparator arm.
41
Figure 13
OlympiAD: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS in patients with gBRCA1/2-mutated HER2-
negative metastatic breast cancer (64% maturity) DCO 25 September 2017
OS analysis in patients with no prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer indicated benefit in 
these patients with a HR of 0.45 (95% CI 0.27-0.77), while for further lines of therapy HR exceeded 1.
Maintenance following first-line treatment of germline BRCA-mutated metastatic adenocarcinoma of 
the pancreas:
POLO Study
The safety and efficacy of olaparib as maintenance therapy were studied in a randomised (3:2), 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre trial in 154 patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutations 
who had metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Patients received either Lynparza 300 mg (2 x 
150 mg tablets) twice daily (n=92) or placebo (n=62) until radiological disease progression or 
unacceptable toxicity. Patients should have not progressed during first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy and should have received a minimum of 16 weeks of continuous platinum treatment,
which could be discontinued at any time thereafter for unacceptable toxicity while the remaining
agents continued according to the planned regimen or unacceptable toxicity for other component(s). 
Patients who could tolerate complete platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen until progression 
have not been considered for this study. The maintenance therapy was started 4 to 8 weeks after the 
last dose of first-line chemotherapy component(s) in the absence of progression and if all toxicities
from previous anti-cancer therapy had been resolved to CTCAE grade 1, except for alopecia, grade 3 
peripheral neuropathy and Hgb ≥9 g/dL.
Thirty-one percent (31%) of patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutations were identified from prior 
local testing results and 69% of patients by central testing. In the olaparib arm, 32% of patients carried 
a germline BRCA1 mutation, 64% a germline BRCA2 mutation and 1% carried both germline BRCA1
and germline BRCA2 mutations. In the placebo arm, 26% of patients carried a germline BRCA1
42
mutation, 73% a germline BRCA2 mutation and no patients carried both germline BRCA1 and 
germline BRCA2 mutations. The BRCAm status of all patients identified using prior local testing 
results was confirmed, where sent, by central testing. Ninety-eight percent (98%) of patients carried a 
deleterious mutation and 2% carried a suspected deleterious mutation. Large rearrangements in the 
BRCA1/2 genes were detected in 5.2 % (8/154) of the randomised patients.
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
placebo arms. Median age was 57 years in both arms; 30% of patients in the olaparib arm were ≥65 
years compared to 20% in the placebo arm. Fifty-eight per-cent (58%) of patients in the olaparib arm 
and 50% of patients in the placebo arm were male. In the olaparib arm 89% of patients were White 
and 11% were non-White; in the placebo arm 95% of patients were White and 5% were non-White. 
Most patients were ECOG performance status 0 (71% in the olaparib arm and 61% in the placebo 
arm). Overall, the sites of metastasis prior to chemotherapy were liver 72%, lung 10% and other sites 
50%. The median time from original diagnosis to randomisation across both arms was 6.9 months 
(range 3.6 to 38.4 months).
Overall, 75% of patients received FOLFIRINOX with a median of 9 cycles (range 4-61), 8% received 
FOLFOX or XELOX, 4% received GEMOX, and 3% received gemcitabine plus cisplatin; the 
remaining 10% of patients received other chemotherapy regimens. Duration of the first-line 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease was 4 to 6 months, >6 to <12 months and ≥12 months, 
respectively, in 77%, 19% and 4% of patients in the olaparib arm and in 80%, 17% and 3% in the 
placebo arm, with around 1 month from the last dose of the first-line chemotherapy component(s) to 
the start of study treatment in both arms. As best response on first-line chemotherapy, 7% of olaparib 
patients and 5% of placebo patients had a complete response, 44% of olaparib patients and 44% of 
placebo patients had a partial response and 49% of olaparib and 50% of placebo patients had stable 
disease. At randomisation, measurable disease was reported in 85% and 84% of patients in the 
olaparib or placebo arms, respectively. The median time from initiation of the first-line platinum-
based chemotherapy to randomisation was 5.7 months (range 3.4 to 33.4 months).
At the time of PFS analysis, 33% of patients in the olaparib arm and 13% on the placebo arm remained 
on study treatment. Forty-nine percent of patients (49%) in the olaparib arm and 74% in the placebo 
arm received subsequent therapy. Forty-two percent (42%) of patients in the olaparib arm and 55% in 
the placebo arm received platinum as subsequent therapy. One percent (1%) of patients in the olaparib 
arm and 15% in the placebo arm received PARP inhibitor as subsequent therapy. Of the 33 (36%) and 
28 (45%) of patients who received a first subsequent platinum-containing therapy, in the olaparib and 
placebo arms, stable disease was reported in 8 vs 6 patients, whereas 1 vs 2 patients had responses, 
respectively.
The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time from randomisation to 
progression determined by BICR using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1
modified to assess patients with no evidence of disease, or death. Secondary efficacy endpoints 
included overall survival (OS), time from randomisation to second progression or death (PFS2), time 
from randomisation to first subsequent anti-cancer therapy or death (TFST), objective response rate 
(ORR), duration of response (DoR), response rate, time to response and health related quality of life
(HRQoL). 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS for olaparib compared to 
placebo (Table 13). The BICR assessment of PFS was consistent with an investigator assessment.
At final analysis of OS, the percentage of patients that were alive and in follow-up was 28% in the 
olaparib arm and 18% in the placebo arm.
43
Table 13
Efficacy results for patients with gBRCAm metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
pancreas in POLO
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Placebo
PFS (68% maturity)a,b (BICR, DCO 15 January 2019)
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time, months (95% CI)
HR (95% CI)c,d
P value (2-sided)
OS (70% maturity)e (DCO 21 July 2020)
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median time (months) (95% CI)
HR (95% CI)d
P value (2-sided)
60:92 (65)
7.4 (4.14-11.01)
44:62 (71)
3.8 (3.52-4.86)
61:92 (66)
19.0 (15.28-26.32)
47:62 (76)
19.2 (14.32-26.12)
0.53 (0.35-0.82)
p=0.0038
0.83 (0.56-1.22)
p=0.3487
a
b
c
d
e
bd
Based on Kaplan–Meier estimates, the proportion of patients that were alive and progression-free at 12 and 24 months 
were 34% and 22% for olaparib vs 15% and 10% for placebo.
For PFS, the median follow-up time for censored patients was 9.1 months in the olaparib arm and 3.8 months in the 
placebo arm.
A value <1 favours olaparib. 
The analysis was performed using a log-rank test.
For OS, the median follow-up time for censored patients was 31.3 months in the olaparib arm and 23.9 months in the 
placebo arm.
Twice daily; CI Confidence interval; HR Hazard Ratio; OS Overall Survival; PFS Progression-free survival.
Figure 14
POLO: Kaplan-Meier plot of PFS for patients with gBRCAm metastatic 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (68% maturity – BICR, DCO 15 January 2019)
___   Olaparib 300 mg twice daily tablet
_ _ _ Placebo twice daily tablet
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg twice daily tablet
Placebo twice daily tablet
Time from randomisation (months)
44
 
 
 
Figure 15
POLO: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS for patients with gBRCAm metastatic 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (70% maturity, DCO 21 July 2020)
Olaparib 300 mg bid (N=92)
Placebo bid (N=62)
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk
Olaparib 300 mg bid
Placebo bid
BRCA1/2-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer:
PROfound Study
The safety and efficacy of olaparib were studied in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (mCRPC) in a Phase III randomised, open-label, multicentre trial that evaluated the efficacy of 
Lynparza versus a comparator arm of investigator’s choice of NHA ([new hormonal agent] 
enzalutamide or abiraterone acetate). 
Patients needed to have progressed on prior NHA for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer 
and/or CRPC. For inclusion in Cohort A, patients needed to have deleterious or suspected deleterious 
mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. Patients with ATM mutations were also randomised in 
Cohort A, but positive benefit-risk could not be demonstrated in this subpopulation of patients. 
Patients with mutations in other genes were randomised in Cohort B. 
In this study 387 patients were randomised 2:1 to receive either olaparib (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] 
twice daily) or comparator. In Cohort A there were 245 patients (162 olaparib and 83 comparator) and 
in Cohort B there were 142 patients (94 olaparib and 48 comparator). Patients were stratified by prior 
taxane use and evidence of measurable disease. Treatment was continued until disease progression. 
Patients randomised to comparator were given the option to switch to olaparib upon confirmed 
radiological BICR progression. Patients with BRCA1m, BRCA2m detected in their tumours were 
enrolled on the basis of prospective central testing, with the exception of 3 patients enrolled using a 
local test result. Of the 160 patients with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation in PROfound, 114 patients 
were retrospectively tested to determine if the identified BRCA1/2 mutation was germline or somatic 
in origin. Within these patients, 63 BRCA1/2 mutations were identified in the germline blood sample 
45
 
 
 
and hence were determined to be germline in origin. The remaining 51 patients did not have a tumour 
detected BRCA1/2 mutation identified in the germline blood sample and hence the BRCA1/2 mutations 
are determined to be somatic in origin. For the remaining 46 patients, somatic or germline origin is 
unknown.
Demographics and baseline characteristics were generally well balanced between the olaparib and 
comparator arms in patients with BRCA1/2 mutations. Median age was 68 years and 67 years in the 
olaparib and comparator arms, respectively. Prior therapy in the olaparib arm was 71% taxane, 41% 
enzalutamide, 37% abiraterone acetate and 20% both enzalutamide and abiraterone acetate. Prior 
therapy in the comparator arm was 60% taxane, 50% enzalutamide, 36% abiraterone acetate and 14% 
both enzalutamide and abiraterone acetate. Fifty-eight percent (58%) of patients in the olaparib arm 
and 55% in the comparator arm had measurable disease at study entry. The proportion of patients with 
bone, lymph node, respiratory and liver metastases was 89%, 62%, 23% and 12%, respectively in the 
olaparib arm and 86%, 71%, 16% and 17%, respectively in the comparator arm. Most patients in both 
treatment arms had an ECOG of 0 or 1 (93%). Baseline pain scores (BPI-SF worst pain) were 0-<2 
(52%), 2-3 (10%) or >3 (34%) in the olaparib arm and 0-<2 (45%), 2-3 (7%) or >3 (45%) in the 
comparator arm. Median baseline PSA was 57.48 µg/L in the olaparib arm and 103.95 µg/L in the 
comparator.
The primary endpoint of the study was radiological progression free survival (rPFS) in Cohort A 
determined by BICR using RECIST 1.1 (soft tissue) and Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG3) 
(bone). Key secondary endpoints included confirmed objective response rate (ORR) by BICR, rPFS 
by BICR, time to pain progression (TTPP) and overall survival (OS).
The study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in BICR assessed rPFS and final OS 
for olaparib vs comparator in Cohort A. 
Results for patients with BRCA1/2 mutations are presented in Table 14. There was a statistically 
significant improvement in BICR assessed rPFS for olaparib vs the investigators choice of NHA arm
in BRCA1/2m patients. The final analysis of OS showed a nominally statistically significant 
improvement in OS in BRCA1/2m patients randomised to Lynparza vs comparator.
Table 14
Summary of key efficacy findings in patients with BRCA1/2-mutated mCRPC in 
PROfound
rPFS by BICRa,b,c DCO 4 June 2019
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median rPFS (95% CI) [months]
HR (95% CI)c
Confirmed ORR by BICRa
Number of objective responders: Total number of 
patients with measurable disease at baseline (%)
Odds ratio (95% CI)
OSa DCO 20 March 2020 c
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
Median OS (95% CI) [months]
HR (95% CI)
a Not controlled for multiplicity
b rPFS 71% maturity
Olaparib 300 mg bd
(N=102)
Investigators choice of 
NHA
(N=58)
62:102 (61)c
9.8 (7.6, 11.3)
51:58 (88) c
3.0 (1.8, 3.6)
0.22 (0.15, 0.32)
25:57 (44)
0:33 (0)
NC (NC, NC)
53:102 (52)
20.1 (17.4, 26.8)
41:58 (71)
14.4 (10.7, 18.9)
0.63 (0.42, 0.95)
c The HR and CI were calculated using a Cox proportional hazards model that contains terms for treatment, factor and 
treatment by factor interaction.
46
bd Twice daily; BICR Blinded independent central review; CI Confidence interval; HR Hazard ratio; NC Not calculable; 
NHA New hormonal agent; ORR Objective response rate; OS Overall survival; rPFS Radiological progression-free survival
Figure 16
BRCA1/2m patients: Kaplan-Meier plot of rPFS (by BICR)
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Investigators choice of NHA
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
l
a
c
i
g
o
l
o
i
d
a
r
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Investigators choice of NHA
47
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17
BRCA1/2m patients: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Investigators choice of NHA
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd
Investigators choice of NHA
Treatment of patients in the first-line mCRPC setting
PROpel
The safety and efficacy of olaparib were studied in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (mCRPC) in a Phase III randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study that 
evaluated the efficacy of Lynparza (300 mg [2 x 150 mg tablets] twice daily) in combination with 
abiraterone (1000 mg [2 x 500 mg tablets] once daily) versus a comparator arm of placebo plus 
abiraterone. Patients in both arms also received either prednisone or prednisolone 5 mg twice daily. 
The study randomised 796 patients (1:1 randomisation; 399 olaparib/abiraterone:397 placebo/ 
abiraterone) who had evidence of histologically confirmed prostate adenocarcinoma and metastatic 
status defined as at least one documented metastatic lesion on either a bone or CT/MRI scan and who 
were treatment naïve with no prior chemotherapy or NHA in the mCRPC setting. Prior to the mCRPC 
stage, treatment with NHAs (except abiraterone) without PSA progression (clinical or radiological) 
during treatment was allowed, provided the treatment was stopped at least 12 months before 
randomisation. Treatment with first-generation antiandrogen agents (e.g., bicalutamide, nilutamide, 
flutamide) was also allowed, provided there was a washout period of 4 weeks. Docetaxel treatment 
was allowed during neoadjuvant/adjuvant treatment for localised prostate cancer and at metastatic 
hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) stage, as long as no signs of disease progression occurred 
during or immediately after such treatment. All patients received a GnRH analogue or had prior 
bilateral orchiectomy. Patients were stratified by metastases (bone only, visceral or other) and 
docetaxel treatment at mHSPC stage (yes or no). Treatment was continued until radiological 
progression of the underlying disease or unacceptable toxicity. 
48
 
 
 
Demographic and baseline characteristics were balanced between the two treatment arms. The median 
age of patients was 69 years overall, and the majority (71%) of patients were in the ≥65 years age 
group. One hundred and eighty-nine patients (24%) had prior docetaxel treatment at mHSPC stage. In 
total, 434 (55%) patients had bone metastases (metastases in the bone and no other distant site), 105 
(13%) patients had visceral metastases (distant soft tissue metastases in an organ e.g., liver, lung) and 
257 (32%) patients had other metastases (this could include, for example, patients with bone 
metastases and distant lymph nodes or patients with disease present only in distant lymph nodes). 
Most patients in both arms (70%) had an ECOG performance status of 0. There were 103 (25.8%) 
symptomatic patients in the olaparib group and 80 (20.2%) patients in the placebo group. Symptomatic 
patients were characterized by Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) item #3 score ≥ 4 and/or 
opiate use at baseline.
Patient enrolment was not based on biomarker status. HRR gene mutation status was assessed 
retrospectively by ctDNA and tumour tissue tests to assess the consistency of treatment effect from the 
FAS population. Of the patients tested, 198 and 118 were HRRm as determined by ctDNA and tumour 
tissue, respectively. The distribution of HRRm patients was well balanced between the two arms.
The primary endpoint was rPFS, defined as time from randomisation to radiological progression 
determined by investigator assessment based on RECIST 1.1 and PCWG-3 criteria (bone). The key 
secondary efficacy endpoint was overall survival (OS). Additional secondary endpoints included 
PFS2, TFST and HRQoL.
The study met its primary endpoint demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in the risk of 
radiological disease progression or death for olaparib/abiraterone compared to placebo/abiraterone as 
assessed by the investigator, with HR 0.66; 95% CI 0.54, 0.81; p<0.0001; median rPFS 24.8 months in 
the olaparib/abiraterone arm vs 16.6 months in the placebo/abiraterone arm. The investigator 
assessment of rPFS was supported with a blinded independent central radiological (BICR) review. The 
sensitivity analysis of rPFS by BICR was consistent with the investigator-based analysis with HR 
0.61; 95% CI 0.49, 0.74; p<0.0001; median rPFS 27.6 months in the olaparib/abiraterone arm vs 16.4 
months in the placebo/abiraterone arm, respectively. 
Subgroup results were consistent with the overall results for olaparib/abiraterone compared to 
placebo/abiraterone in all pre-defined sub-groups, including patients with or without prior taxane at 
mHSPC stage, patients with different metastatic disease at baseline (bone only vs visceral vs other)
and patients with or without HRRm (Figure 20).
Efficacy results are presented in Table 15, Table 16, Figure 18 and Figure 19.
Table 15
Summary of key efficacy findings for treatment of patients with mCRPC in 
PROpel
Olaparib/abiraterone
N = 399
Placebo/abiraterone
N = 397
rPFS (by investigator assessment) (50% maturity) (DCO 30 July 2021)
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
168:399 (42.1)
226:397 (56.9)
Median time (95% CI) (months)
24.8 (20.5, 27.6)
16.6 (13.9, 19.2)
HR (95% CI)a
p-valueb
0.66 (0.54, 0.81)
<0.0001
Final OS (48% maturity) (DCO 12 October 2022)
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
176:399 (44.1)
205:397 (51.6)
Median time (95% CI) (months)
42.1 (38.4, NC)
34.7 (31.0, 39.3)
49
HR (95% CI)a
p-valueb
Olaparib/abiraterone
N = 399
Placebo/abiraterone
N = 397
0.81 (0.67, 1.00)
p=0.0544
% Alive at 36 months (95% CI) c
56.9 (51.7, 61.7)
49.5 (44.3, 54.5)
a The HR and CI were calculated using a Cox proportional hazards model adjusted for the variables selected in the primary 
pooling strategy: metastases, docetaxel treatment at mHSPC stage. The Efron approach was used for handling ties. A HR <1 
favours olaparib 300 mg bd + abiraterone 1000 mg qd.
b The 2-sided p-value was calculated using the log-rank test stratified by the same variables selected in the primary pooling 
strategy. 
c Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique.
Table 16
rPFS subgroup analyses by investigator assessment in PROpel (DCO 30 July 2021)
Olaparib/abiraterone
Placebo/abiraterone
Radiological Progression-Free Survival (rPFS) by investigator assessment
Aggregate HRRm Subgroup Analyses a
HRRm
N=111
N=115
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
43:111 (38.7)
73:115 (63.5)
Median (months)
Hazard ratio (95% CI) b
Non-HRRm
NC
N=279
0.50 (0.34, 0.73)
13.86
N=273
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
119:279 (42.7)
149:273 (54.6)
Median (months)
Hazard ratio (95% CI) b
Aggregate BRCAm Subgroup Analyses a
24.11
18.96
0.76 (0.60, 0.97)
BRCAm
N=47
N=38
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
14:47 (29.8)
28:38 (73.7)
Median (months)
Hazard ratio (95% CI) b
Non-BRCAm
NC
N=343
0.23 (0.12, 0.43)
8.38
N=350
Number of events: Total number of patients (%)
148:343 (43.1)
194:350 (55.4)
Median (months)
Hazard ratio (95% CI) b
24.11
18.96
0.76 (0.61, 0.94)
a Aggregate subgroups were derived from ctDNA and tissue-based groupings.
b The analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards model including terms for treatment group, the subgroup 
factor, and a treatment by subgroup interaction. Confidence interval calculated using the profile likelihood method. An HR 
< 1 favors olaparib 300 mg bd.
50
Figure 18
PROpel: Kaplan-Meier plot of rPFS (investigator assessed) (50% maturity) 
DCO 30 July 2021 
Olaparib 300 mg bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd (N=399)
Placebo bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd (N=397)
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
P
c
i
h
p
a
r
g
o
i
d
a
R
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd 
Placebo bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd
Time from randomisation (Months)
Figure 19
PROpel: Kaplan-Meier plot of OS (48% maturity) DCO 12 October 2022 
Olaparib 300 mg bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd (N=399)
Placebo bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd (N=397)
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Time from randomisation (Months)
Number of patients at risk:
Olaparib 300 mg bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd 
Placebo bd + Abiraterone 1000 mg qd
51
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20
PROpel: Forest plot of subgroup analysis of rPFS (investigator assessed) (50% 
maturity) DCO 30 July 2021
Hazard Ratio for
Progression or Death
(95% CI)
Abiraterone 
+ Olaparib
Abiraterone 
+ Placebo
Number of events / Number of patients 
All patients
Age at random assignment: <65yr
Age at random assignment: ≥65yr
ECOG performance status at baseline = 0*
ECOG performance status at baseline = 1*
Metastasis: Bone only
Metastasis: Visceral
Metastasis: Other
Docetaxel treatment at mHSPC stage
No docetaxel treatment at mHSPC 
stage
Baseline PSA: Below median
baseline PSA*
Baseline PSA: Above or equal to median 
baseline PSA*
HRRm status (aggregate): HRRm
HRRm status (aggregate): non-HRRm
Asia region
Europe region
North and South America region
White race
Black/African American race
Asian race
Other race
0.1
NC
1
10
Abiraterone + Olaparib Better
Abiraterone + Placebo Better
Abiraterone + Olaparib Better
Abiraterone + Placebo Better
Each subgroup analysis was performed using a Cox proportional hazards model that contained a term for treatment, factor, 
and treatment by factor interaction. A hazard ratio < 1 implies a lower risk of progression on olaparib. The size of a circle is 
proportional to the number of events. All subgroups in this figure are based upon data from the eCRF.
*Excludes patients with no baseline assessment. CI: confidence interval, ECOG: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group;
HRRm: homologous recombination repair gene mutation; mHSPC: metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer; NC:
noncalculable; PSA: prostate-specific antigen.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Lynparza in all subsets of the paediatric population, in ovarian carcinoma (excluding 
rhabdomyosarcoma and germ cell tumours) (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics of olaparib at the 300 mg tablet dose are characterised by an apparent plasma 
clearance of ~7 L/h, an apparent volume of distribution of ~158 L and a terminal half-life of 15 hours. 
52
On multiple dosing, an AUC accumulation ratio of 1.8 was observed and PK appeared to be 
time-dependent to a small extent.
Absorption
Following oral administration of olaparib via the tablet formulation (2 x 150 mg), absorption is rapid 
with median peak plasma concentrations typically achieved 1.5 hours after dosing.
Co-administration with food slowed the rate (tmax delayed by 2.5 hours and Cmax reduced by 
approximately 21%) but did not significantly affect the extent of absorption of olaparib (AUC 
increased 8%). Consequently, Lynparza may be taken without regard to food (see section 4.2).
Distribution
The in vitro plasma protein binding is approximately 82% at 10 µg/mL which is approximately Cmax.
In vitro, human plasma protein binding of olaparib was dose-dependent; the fraction bound was 
approximately 91% at 1 µg/mL, reducing to 82% at 10 µg/mL and to 70% at 40 µg/mL. In solutions of 
purified proteins, the olaparib fraction bound to albumin was approximately 56%, which was 
independent of olaparib concentrations. Using the same assay, the fraction bound to alpha-1 acid 
glycoprotein was 29% at 10 µg/mL with a trend of decreased binding at higher concentrations.
Biotransformation
In vitro, CYP3A4/5 were shown to be the enzymes primarily responsible for the metabolism of 
olaparib (see section 4.5).
Following oral dosing of 14C-olaparib to female patients, unchanged olaparib accounted for the 
majority of the circulating radioactivity in plasma (70%) and was the major component found in both 
urine and faeces (15% and 6% of the dose, respectively). The metabolism of olaparib is extensive. The 
majority of the metabolism was attributable to oxidation reactions with a number of the components 
produced undergoing subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation. Up to 20, 37 and 20 metabolites 
were detected in plasma, urine and faeces, respectively, the majority of them representing <1% of the 
dosed material. A ring-opened piperazin-3-ol moiety, and two mono-oxygenated metabolites (each 
~10%) were the major circulating components, with one of the mono-oxygenated metabolites also 
being the major metabolite in the excreta (6% and 5% of the urinary and faecal radioactivity,
respectively). 
In vitro, olaparib produced little/no inhibition of UGT1A4, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, or CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 
2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 or 2E1 and is not expected to be a clinically significant time dependent 
inhibitor of any of these CYP enzymes. Olaparib inhibited UGT1A1 in vitro, however, PBPK 
simulations suggest this is not of clinical importance. In vitro, olaparib is a substrate of the efflux 
transporter P-gp, however, this is unlikely to be of clinical significance (see section 4.5).
In vitro, data also show that olaparib is not a substrate for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, BCRP or 
MRP2 and is not an inhibitor of OATP1B3, OAT1 or MRP2.
Elimination
Following a single dose of 14C-olaparib, ~86% of the dosed radioactivity was recovered within a 7-day 
collection period, ~44% via the urine and ~42% via the faeces. Majority of the material was excreted 
as metabolites. 
Special populations
In population based PK analyses, patient age, gender, bodyweight, tumour location or race (including 
White and Japanese patients) were not significant covariates.
53
Renal impairment
In patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 51 to 80 ml/min), AUC increased by 24% 
and Cmax by 15% compared with patients with normal renal function. No Lynparza dose adjustment is 
required for patients with mild renal impairment.
In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 31 to 50 ml/min), AUC increased by 
44% and Cmax by 26% compared with patients with normal renal function. Lynparza dose adjustment 
is recommended for patients with moderate renal impairment (see section 4.2).
There are no data in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (creatinine 
clearance <30 ml/min).
Hepatic impairment
In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification A), AUC increased by 15% and 
Cmax by 13% and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification B), AUC 
increased by 8% and Cmax decreased by 13% compared with patients with normal hepatic function. No 
Lynparza dose adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see 
section 4.2). There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification 
C).
Paediatric population
No studies have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of olaparib in paediatric patients.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity
In repeat-dose toxicity studies of up to 6 months duration in rats and dogs, daily oral doses of olaparib 
were well-tolerated. The major primary target organ for toxicity in both species was the bone marrow, 
with associated changes in peripheral haematology parameters. These changes were reversible within
4 weeks of cessation of dosing. In rats, minimal degenerative effects on gastrointestinal tract were also 
noted. These findings occurred at exposures below those seen clinically. Studies using human bone 
marrow cells also showed that direct exposure to olaparib can result in toxicity to bone marrow cells in 
ex vivo assays.
Genotoxicity
Olaparib showed no mutagenic potential, but was clastogenic in mammalian cells in vitro. When 
dosed orally to rats, olaparib induced micronuclei in bone marrow. This clastogenicity is consistent 
with the known pharmacology of olaparib and indicates potential for genotoxicity in man.
Carcinogenicity
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with olaparib.
Reproductive toxicology
In a female fertility study where rats were dosed until implantation, although extended oestrus was 
observed in some animals, mating performance and pregnancy rate was not affected. However, there 
was a slight reduction in embryofoetal survival.
In rat embryofoetal development studies, and at dose levels that did not induce significant maternal 
toxicity, olaparib caused reduced embryofoetal survival, reduced foetal weight and foetal 
developmental abnormalities, including major eye malformations (e.g. anophthalmia, 
microphthalmia), vertebral/rib malformation and visceral and skeletal abnormalities. 
54
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Copovidone
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Mannitol
Sodium stearyl fumarate
Tablet coating
Hypromellose
Macrogol 400
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Iron oxide yellow (E172)
Iron oxide black (E172) (150 mg tablets only)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable. 
6.3
Shelf life
4 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Alu/Alu non-perforated blister containing 8 film-coated tablets.
Pack sizes:
56 film-coated tablets (7 blisters).
Multipack containing 112 (2 packs of 56) film-coated tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
55
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/14/959/002 56 film-coated tablets (100 mg)
EU/1/14/959/003 112 film-coated tablets (2 packs of 56) (100 mg)
EU/1/14/959/004 56 film-coated tablets (150 mg)
EU/1/14/959/005 112 film-coated tablets (2 packs of 56) (150 mg)
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 16 December 2014
Date of latest renewal: 1 October 2019
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
56
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
C. OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
D. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
57
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57  Södertälje
Sweden
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Silk Road Business Park
Macclesfield
Cheshire
SK10 2NA
United Kingdom
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C. OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
 Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
58
 Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures:
Description
PAES: In order to further confirm the efficacy of olaparib as maintenance treatment 
after the first-line platinum-containing chemotherapy in patients with BRCA mutated 
high grade serous ovarian cancer, the MAH should submit the updated PFS2, updated 
OS and final OS results of the study D0818C00001 (SOLO1), a phase III randomised 
double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre study.
Due date
The clinical study report should be submitted by:
December 2029
59
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
60
A. LABELLING
61
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
62
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/959/002 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Lynparza 100 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
63
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
64
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/959/004 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Lynparza 150 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
65
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON MULTIPACK -including the blue box
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
Multipack: 112 (2 packs of 56) film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
66
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/14/959/003 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
lynparza 100 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN
NN
67
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON MULTIPACK -including the blue box
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
Multipack: 112 (2 packs of 56) film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
68
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/14/959/005 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
lynparza 150 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN 
69
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
INNER CARTON – with no blue box
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
Component of a multipack, not to be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
70
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/14/959/003 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
lynparza 100 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
71
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
INNER CARTON – with no blue box
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of olaparib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
Component of a multipack, not to be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
6.
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
72
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/14/959/005 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
lynparza 150 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
73
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 100 mg tablets
olaparib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca 
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
74
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Lynparza 150 mg tablets
olaparib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca 
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
75
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
76
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablets
Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablets
olaparib
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.



Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet
1. What Lynparza is and what it is used for 
2. What you need to know before you take Lynparza
3. How to take Lynparza
4.
5. How to store Lynparza
6. Contents of the pack and other information
Possible side effects 
1. What Lynparza is and what it is used for 
What Lynparza is and how it works
Lynparza contains the active substance olaparib. Olaparib is a type of cancer medicine called a PARP 
inhibitor (poly [adenosine diphosphate-ribose] polymerase inhibitor).
PARP inhibitors can destroy cancer cells that are not good at repairing DNA damage. These specific 
cancer cells can be identified by:


response to platinum chemotherapy, or
looking for faulty DNA repair genes, such as BRCA (BReast CAncer) genes.
When Lynparza is used in combination with abiraterone (an androgen receptor signalling inhibitor), 
the combination may help enhance anti-cancer effect in prostate cancer cells with or without faulty 
DNA repair genes (e.g., BRCA genes).
What Lynparza is used for
Lynparza is used for the treatment of


a type of ovarian cancer (BRCA-mutated) that has responded to the first treatment with 
standard platinum-based chemotherapy.  
o A test is used to find out whether you have BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer.
ovarian cancer that has come back (recurred). It can be used after the cancer has responded 
to previous treatment with standard platinum-based chemotherapy. 
77





a type of ovarian cancer (HRD positive as defined by a BRCA mutation or genomic 
instability) that has responded to the first treatment with standard platinum-based 
chemotherapy and bevacizumab. Lynparza is used together with bevacizumab.
 a type of breast cancer (BRCA-mutated, HER2-negative) when the cancer has not spread 
to other parts of the body and treatment is going to be given after surgery (treatment 
after surgery is called adjuvant therapy). You should have received chemotherapy 
medicines before or after surgery.  If your cancer is hormone-receptor positive your 
doctor may also prescribe hormonal treatment. 
o A test is used to find out whether you have BRCA-mutated breast cancer.
a type of breast cancer (BRCA-mutated, HER2-negative) which has spread beyond the 
original tumour. You should have received chemotherapy medicines either before or after your 
cancer has spread.  
o A test is used to find out whether you have BRCA-mutated breast cancer.
a type of pancreatic cancer (BRCA-mutated) that has responded to the first treatment with 
standard platinum-based chemotherapy.  
o A test is used to find out whether you have BRCA-mutated pancreatic cancer.
a type of prostate cancer (BRCA-mutated) which has spread beyond the original tumour 
and no longer responds to medical or surgical treatment to lower testosterone. You should 
have received certain hormonal treatments, such as enzalutamide or abiraterone acetate.  
o A test is used to find out whether you have BRCA-mutated prostate cancer.
a type of prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) beyond 
the original tumour and no longer responds to a medical or surgical treatment that lowers 
testosterone. Lynparza is used in combination with another anti-cancer medicine called 
abiraterone, together with the steroid medicine, prednisone or prednisolone.
When Lynparza is given in combination with other anti-cancer medicines it is important that you also 
read the package leaflets of these other medicines. If you have any questions about these medicines, 
ask your doctor.
2. What you need to know before you take Lynparza
Do not take Lynparza


if you are allergic to olaparib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6)
if you are breast-feeding (see section 2 below for more information).
Do not take Lynparza if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse before taking Lynparza.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before or during treatment with Lynparza

if you have low blood cell counts on testing. These may be low counts for red or white blood 
cells, or low platelet counts. See section 4 for more information about these side effects, 
including the signs and symptoms you need to look out for (for example, fever or infection, 
bruising or bleeding). Rarely, these may be a sign of more serious problems with the bone 
marrow such as ‘myelodysplastic syndrome’ (MDS) or ‘acute myeloid leukaemia’ (AML).
78



if you experience any new or worsening symptoms of shortness of breath, coughing or 
wheezing. A small number of patients treated with Lynparza reported inflammation of the lungs 
(pneumonitis). Pneumonitis is a serious condition that can often require hospital treatment.
if you experience any new or worsening symptoms of pain or swelling in an extremity, shortness 
of breath, chest pain, breathing that is more rapid than normal or heart beats faster than normal. 
A small number of patients treated with Lynparza were reported to develop a blood clot in a 
deep vein, usually in the leg (venous thrombosis), or a clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism).
if you notice yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, abnormally dark urine (brown
coloured), pain on the right side of your stomach area (abdomen), tiredness, feeling less hungry
than usual or unexplained nausea and vomiting contact your doctor immediately as this may
indicate problems with your liver.
If you think any of these may apply to you, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before or during 
treatment with Lynparza.
Tests and checks
Your doctor will check your blood before and during treatment with Lynparza. 
You will have a blood test
before treatment

every month for the first year of treatment

at regular intervals decided by your doctor after the first year of treatment. 

If your blood count falls to a low level, you may need to have a blood transfusion (where you are 
given new blood or blood-based products from a donor).
Other medicines and Lynparza
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal medicines. This is 
because Lynparza can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some other medicines can 
affect the way Lynparza works.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking or are planning to take any of the following 
medicines 


any other anticancer medicines
a vaccine or a medicine that suppresses the immune system, as you may need to be closely 
monitored
itraconazole, fluconazole - used for fungal infections
telithromycin, clarithromycin, erythromycin - used for bacterial infections
protease inhibitors boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat, boceprevir, telaprevir, nevirapine, 
efavirenz - used for viral infections, including HIV
rifampicin, rifapentine, rifabutin - used for bacterial infections, including tuberculosis (TB)
phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital - used as a sedative or to treat fits (seizures) and 
epilepsy
herbal remedies containing St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) - used mainly for 
depression
digoxin, diltiazem, furosemide, verapamil, valsartan - used to treat heart conditions or high 
blood pressure
bosentan - used to treat pulmonary artery hypertension
statins, for example simvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin - used to lower blood cholesterol 
levels
dabigatran – used to thin the blood










79








glibenclamide, metformin, repaglinide - used to treat diabetes
ergot alkaloids - used to treat migraines and headaches
fentanyl - used to treat cancer pain 
pimozide, quetiapine - used to treat mental health problems
cisapride - used to treat stomach problems
colchicine – used to treat gout
cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus - used to suppress the immune system
methotrexate - used to treat cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking any of the above or any other medicines. The 
medicines listed here may not be the only ones that could affect Lynparza.
Lynparza with drink
Do not drink grapefruit juice while you are being treated with Lynparza. It can affect the way the 
medicine works. 





Contraception, pregnancy and breast-feeding
Female patients

You should not take Lynparza if you are pregnant or might become pregnant. This is because it 
may harm an unborn baby.
You should not become pregnant while taking this medicine. If you are having sex, you should 
use two effective methods of contraception while taking this medicine and for 6 months after 
taking the last dose of Lynparza. It is not known whether Lynparza may affect the effectiveness 
of some hormonal contraceptives. Please tell your doctor if you are taking a hormonal 
contraceptive, as your doctor may recommend the addition of a non-hormonal contraceptive 
method.
You should have a pregnancy test before starting Lynparza, at regular times during treatment 
and 6 months after taking the last dose of Lynparza. If you become pregnant during this time, 
you must talk to your doctor straight away. 
It is not known whether Lynparza passes into breast milk. Do not breast-feed if you are taking 
Lynparza and for 1 month after taking the last dose of Lynparza. If you are planning to 
breast-feed, tell your doctor.
Male patients

You must use a condom when having sex with a female partner, even if she is pregnant, while 
taking Lynparza and for 3 months after taking the last dose. It is not known whether Lynparza 
passes into semen.
Your female partner must also use a suitable method of contraception. 
You must not donate sperm while taking Lynparza and for 3 months after taking the last dose.
Driving and using machines
Lynparza may influence your ability to drive and use machines. If you feel dizzy, weak or tired while 
taking Lynparza, do not drive or use tools or machines.
Information on other ingredients in this medicine
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg or 150 mg tablet, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”.
3.
How to take Lynparza
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure.
How to take
80






Swallow Lynparza tablets whole, with or without food.
Take Lynparza once in the morning and once in the evening.
Do not chew, crush, dissolve or divide the tablets as this may affect how quickly the medicine 
gets into your body.
How much to take

Your doctor will tell you how many tablets of Lynparza to take. It is important that you take the 
total recommended dose each day. Keep doing so for as long as your doctor, pharmacist or 
nurse tells you to.
The usual recommended dose is 300 mg (2 x 150 mg tablets) twice a day - a total of 4 tablets 
each day.
Your doctor may prescribe a different dose if

you have problems with your kidneys. You will be asked to take 200 mg (2 x 100 mg tablets) 
twice a day – a total of 4 tablets each day.
you are taking certain medicines that may affect Lynparza (see section 2).
you have certain side effects while you are taking Lynparza (see section 4). Your doctor may 
lower your dose or stop treatment, either for a short time or permanently.
If you take more Lynparza than you should
If you take more Lynparza than your normal dose, contact your doctor or the nearest hospital straight 
away.
If you forget to take Lynparza
If you forget to take Lynparza, take your next normal dose at its scheduled time. Do not take a double 
dose (two doses at the same time) to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)

feeling short of breath, feeling very tired, pale skin or fast heart beat – these may be symptoms 
of a decrease in the number of red blood cells (anaemia).
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)

allergic reactions (e.g. hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, dizziness which are signs and 
symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions).
itchy rash or swollen, reddened skin (dermatitis).
serious problems with bone marrow (myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukaemia). 
See section 2.


Other side effects include
81
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)











feeling sick (nausea)
being sick (vomiting)
feeling tired or weak (fatigue)
indigestion or heartburn (dyspepsia)
loss of appetite
headache
changes in taste of foods (dysgeusia)
feeling dizzy
cough
shortness of breath (dyspnoea)
diarrhoea - if it gets severe, tell your doctor straight away.
Very common side effects that may show up in blood tests

low white blood cell count (leukopenia or neutropenia) which may decrease your ability to fight 
infection and may be associated with fever.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)




rash 
sore mouth (stomatitis)
pain in the stomach area under the ribs (upper abdominal pain).
blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg (venous thrombosis) that may cause symptoms such 
as pain or swelling of the legs, or a clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism) that may cause 
symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, breathing that is more rapid than normal or 
heart beats faster than normal.
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests

low white blood cell count (lymphopenia) which may decrease your ability to fight infection 
and may be associated with fever
decrease in the number of platelets in blood (thrombocytopenia) - you may notice the following 
symptoms
o bruising or bleeding for longer than usual if you hurt yourself
increase in blood creatinine - this test is used to check how your kidneys are working.
abnormal liver function tests.



Uncommon side effects that may show up in blood tests

increase in the size of red blood cells (not associated with any symptoms).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
facial swelling (angioedema).

painful inflammation of the fatty tissue under the skin (erythema nodosum). 

Not known (cannot be estimated from available data)

signs of liver problems, such as yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes (jaundice), 
nausea or vomiting, pain on the right side of your stomach area (abdomen), dark urine (brown 
coloured), feeling less hungry than usual, tiredness.
Your doctor will test your blood every month for the first year of treatment and at regular intervals 
after that. Your doctor will tell you if there are any changes in your blood test that might need 
treatment.
If you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, please contact your doctor straight away.
Reporting of side effects
82
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Lynparza
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the blister after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Lynparza contains
The active substance is olaparib.


Each Lynparza 100 mg film-coated tablet contains 100 mg olaparib.
Each Lynparza 150 mg film-coated tablet contains 150 mg olaparib. 
The other ingredients (excipients) are
 Tablet core: copovidone, silica colloidal anhydrous, mannitol, sodium stearyl fumarate.
 Tablet coating: hypromellose, macrogol 400, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide yellow (E172), 
iron oxide black (E172) (150 mg tablets only).
See section 2 “Information on other ingredients in this medicine”.
What Lynparza looks like and contents of the pack
Lynparza 100 mg tablets are yellow to dark yellow, oval, bi-convex, film-coated tablets, marked with 
“OP100” on one side and plain on the other. 
Lynparza 150 mg tablets are green to green/grey, oval, bi-convex, film-coated tablets, marked with 
“OP150” on one side and plain on the other. 
Lynparza is supplied in packs containing 56 film-coated tablets (7 blisters of 8 tablets each), or 
multipacks containing 112 (2 packs of 56) film-coated tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
83
Manufacturer
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Silk Road Business Park
Macclesfield, Cheshire, SK10 2NA
United Kingdom
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 24455000
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca 
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
84
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777 
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
85
