23 July 2020  
EMA/381415/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): olaparib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010322/201912 
Period covered by the PSUR: 16/12/2018 To: 15/12/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for olaparib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Regarding the safety issue “erythema nodosum”, 13 cases were supportive of a correlation with 
olaparib, among which one case was strongly supportive with two episodes of erythema nodosum and 
positive rechallenge. A literature review reported three cases of erythema nodosum with causal 
association. Based on the review of the data, a causal relationship between olaparib and the occurrence 
of erythema nodosum is at least a reasonable possibility, therefore “Erythema nodosum” should be 
included as a new adverse drug reaction (ADR) in section 4.8 of the SmPC. The frequency was 
determined as “rare” based on clinical trials. 
Regarding the signal of “angioedema”, there were overall 21 distinct cases supportive of a causal 
association between olaparib and angioedema. Twelve cases out of 21 (57%) were considered serious. A 
positive dechallenge was reported in more than 70% of the cases (15/21). A positive rechallenge was 
observed in 6 cases. Considering clinical features (swelling accompanied by urticaria and itching), short 
time to onset (TTO) and positive outcome following treatment with antihistamines and/or 
coritcosteroids, the cases observed were suggestive of a histamine-mediated reaction and consistent 
with angioedema as a manifestation of Type I hypersensitivity reaction. Based on the review of the 
cases reported, there is sufficient evidence to support a causal relationship for olaparib and the 
occurrence of “angioedema”. Therefore, this event should be added to the list of ADRs in section 4.8 of 
the SmPC with the frequency “uncommon”. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for olaparib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing olaparib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/381415/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
