EMA/889990/2022  
EMEA/H/C/003726 
Lynparza (olaparib) 
An overview of Lynparza and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lynparza and what is it used for? 
Lynparza is a cancer medicine used for: 
• 
continuing treatment after initial treatment of high-grade (fast-growing) cancers of the ovaries, 
fallopian tubes (which connect the ovaries to the womb), and the peritoneum (membrane lining the 
abdomen) in: 
−  women whose cancer has come back (relapsed) after previous treatment and in whom 
platinum-based chemotherapy has shrunk or cleared the cancer; 
−  women newly diagnosed with advanced cancer with mutations (changes) in one or both genes 
known as BRCA1 and BRCA2 who have been treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and in 
whom this treatment has shrunk or cleared the cancer; 
−  women with advanced cancer that is HRD-positive (homologous recombination deficiency; 
where one of the mechanisms to repair damaged DNA does not work, which can be due to a 
defect in certain genes such as BRCA1 and BRCA2) and in whom platinum-based 
chemotherapy and bevacizumab has shrunk or cleared the cancer; 
• 
treatment of HER2-negative breast cancer (when the cancer cells do not have high levels of a 
protein called HER2) in patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations when the cancer: 
−  has not spread to other parts of the body following chemotherapy given before or after surgery 
(early breast cancer), but there is a high risk of the cancer coming back;  
−  has spread beyond the original site after treatment with certain breast cancer medicines that 
have stopped working or were not suitable; 
continuing treatment of pancreatic cancer in patients with mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes 
that is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body) and has not worsened after at least 4 
months of platinum-based chemotherapy; 
treatment of metastatic prostate cancer in: 
• 
• 
−  men with mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes in whom medical or surgical treatment to lower 
testosterone levels (castration) did not work and whose cancer has worsened after treatment 
with other prostate cancer medicines, including a new hormonal agent; 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
−  men in whom medical or surgical treatment to lower testosterone levels (castration) did not 
work and in whom chemotherapy is not an option. 
Lynparza contains the active substance olaparib. It is either used alone or in combination with other 
cancer medicines like bevacizumab in ovarian cancer, hormone therapy in breast cancer and 
abiraterone together with prednisone or prednisolone in prostate cancer. 
How is Lynparza used? 
Lynparza can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines.  
Lynparza is available as tablets which the patient takes twice a day. 
The dose of Lynparza depends on what disease it is being used for. Treatment is continued for as long 
as the patient benefits from it and does not have unmanageable side effects. In advanced ovarian 
cancer, the doctor may stop treatment after 2 years if X-rays show no signs of the cancer. In early 
breast cancer, patients should be treated for up to 1 year. Treatment may be interrupted or stopped or 
the dose reduced if certain side effects develop. 
For more information about using Lynparza, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lynparza work? 
The active substance in Lynparza, olaparib, blocks the action of an enzyme called human poly ADP 
ribose polymerase (PARP), which helps to repair damaged DNA in normal and cancer cells during cell 
division. Cancer cells with mutations such as the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations rely more heavily on 
PARP to repair their DNA and continue dividing. Therefore, when PARP is blocked, the damaged DNA in 
cancer cells cannot be repaired and, as a result, the cancer cells die. 
What benefits of Lynparza have been shown in studies? 
Ovarian cancer 
Studies show that Lynparza given on its own increases the time women with cancer of the ovary, 
fallopian tube or peritoneum live without their disease getting worse after treatment with platinum-
based chemotherapy has shrunk or cleared the cancer: 
•  A study involving 295 patients with relapsed cancer found that those receiving Lynparza lived on 
average for 19.1 months without their disease getting worse compared with 5.5 months for 
patients receiving placebo (a dummy treatment). 
• 
• 
In another study involving 265 patients with relapsed cancer, those who took Lynparza lived on 
average for 8.4 months without their disease getting worse compared with 4.8 months for patients 
on placebo. 
In a third study involving 391 patients with advanced cancer who had BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations, 
the disease did not get worse in around 74% of patients who took Lynparza for 2 years compared 
with 35% of patients on placebo. 
When given with bevacizumab, Lynparza increases the time patients with HRD-positive cancer live 
without their disease getting worse after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy and 
bevacizumab has shrunk or cleared the cancer. In a main study of 806 patients with advanced high-
Lynparza (olaparib)  
EMA/889990/2022  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
grade ovarian, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer, patients whose cancer was HRD-positive and who 
took Lynparza for 22 months lived on average 37.2 months without their disease getting worse 
compared with 17.7 months for those receiving placebo. 
Breast cancer 
Lynparza was effective in a study involving 302 patients with HER2-negative breast cancer with BRCA1 
or BRCA2 mutations whose cancer had spread. Patients treated with Lynparza lived on average 7.0 
months without their disease getting worse compared with 4.2 months for patients treated with the 
doctor’s choice of another cancer medicine. 
Another study involved 1,836 patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations and HER2-negative breast 
cancer which had not spread to other parts of the body after chemotherapy treatment given before or 
after surgery. The study showed that Lynparza was effective at preventing the disease from coming 
back when given alone or together with hormone therapy. Lynparza was given to 921 patients, a 
placebo was given to 916 patients, and all patients were allowed to have hormone therapy. After 3 
years, the disease had worsened or spread in 12% of patients treated with Lynparza compared with 
20% of patients taking placebo. 
Pancreatic cancer 
In a study of 154 patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations who had metastatic pancreatic cancer that 
had not worsened during at least 4 months of treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy, Lynparza 
increased the time patients lived without their disease getting worse: those receiving Lynparza lived on 
average 7.4 months without their disease getting worse compared with 3.8 months for patients 
receiving placebo.  
Prostate cancer 
In a study of 387 men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer whose cancer had worsened 
during treatment with another cancer medicine, Lynparza on its own was effective in patients with 
BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations (160 patients overall): patients with these mutations and treated with 
Lynparza lived on average 9.8 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 3.0 months 
in those treated with the doctor's choice of another cancer medicine.   
In a study of 796 men with metastatic and castration-resistant prostate cancer, Lynparza in 
combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone (hormone therapy) increased the time 
patients lived without their disease getting worse: those receiving Lynparza and hormone therapy lived 
on average 24.8 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 16.6 months in those 
treated with placebo (a dummy treatment) and hormone therapy. 
What are the risks associated with Lynparza? 
The most common side effects with Lynparza (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), tiredness, anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), vomiting, diarrhoea, decreased 
appetite, headache, neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that fights 
infection), dysgeusia (taste disturbances), cough, leucopenia (low levels of white blood cells), 
dizziness, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing) and dyspepsia (heartburn).  
The most common severe side effects (which may affect more than 2 in 100 people) are anaemia, 
neutropenia, tiredness, leucopenia and thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets). 
Lynparza (olaparib)  
EMA/889990/2022  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Women must not breastfeed during treatment with Lynparza and for a month after stopping treatment. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Lynparza, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Lynparza authorised in the EU? 
Generally, the outcome is poor for patients with ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer and for 
patients with HER2-negative breast cancer, pancreatic cancer with BRCA mutations or castration-
resistant prostate cancer with or without BRCA mutations whose cancer has spread. Lynparza can 
increase the time these patients live without their disease getting worse. In ovarian, fallopian tube or 
peritoneal cancer, Lynparza can also delay the need for the next cycle of platinum chemotherapy.  
The side effects with Lynparza are mostly mild or moderate and are generally manageable. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Lynparza’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lynparza? 
The company that markets Lynparza will carry out studies to further confirm the benefit, including 
long-term benefit, of the medicine in patients with ovarian cancer and prostate cancer. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lynparza have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lynparza are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Lynparza are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Lynparza 
Lynparza received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 December 2014. 
Further information on Lynparza can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lynparza.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2022.  
Lynparza (olaparib)  
EMA/889990/2022  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
