16 March 2018 
EMA/214775/2018 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance 
Lynparza (olaparib) 
Treatment of ovarian cancer  
EU/3/07/501 (EMA/OD/063/07) 
Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage .......................... 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Olaparib 
Olaparib 
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
Capsule, hard 
Oral use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
L01X 
Sponsor’s details: 
AstraZeneca AB 
SE-151 85 Södertälje 
Sweden 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
AstraZeneca AB  
10 October 2007 
06 December 2007 
EU/3/07/501 
Post-designation procedural history 
COMP opinion on review of designation at 
13 November 2014 
initial MA authorisation 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Alexandre Moreau, Bart Van der Schueren 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
AstraZeneca AB  
6 April 2017 
18 May 2017 
EMEA/H/C/003726/X/0016/G 
Olaparib  
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the 
maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer 
who are in response (complete or partial) to platinum-
based chemotherapy. 
Further information on Lynparza can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports 
CHMP opinion date 
22 February 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
F Naumann-Winter - B Bloechl-Daum –K. Kopečková 
Sponsor’s reports submission date 
23 October 2017 – 20 November 2017 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
5-7 December 2017  
questions 
Oral explanation 
13 March 2018  
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
Following communication of the outcome of the discussion, the sponsor formally requested the 
withdrawal of the orphan designation on 15 March 2018, prior to final opinion. 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion at the designation stage 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2007 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 2.9 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is life threatening due to poor long term survival; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that olaparib may be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The orphan condition affects predominantly older postmenopausal women. About 90% of primary 
malignant ovarian tumours are epithelial and WHO classification of ovarian tumours recognizes the 
following histotypes: serous, mucinous, endometrioid, clear cell, Brenner (transitional cell), mixed 
epithelial, undifferentiated, and unclassified. In the last few years a dualistic model for the 
pathogenesis of this disease has emerged which divides epithelial tumours into type 1 and type 2 
ovarian carcinomas.  
Type 1 cancers tend to be low-grade and indolent tumours and include low-grade serous, 
endometrioid, mucinous, clear-cell and malignant Brenner tumours; they are relatively genetically 
stable and are characterised by mutations of KRAS, BRAF, ERBB2, PTEN, PIK3CA and ARID1A.  
Type 2 tumours are high-grade, aggressive tumours comprising high-grade serous, high-grade 
endometrioid, malignant mixed mesodermal tumours and undifferentiated tumours, frequently 
associated with TP53 mutations, and BRCA1/2 mutation due to a combination of germline and somatic 
mutations.  
It is important to note that the majority of high-grade serous ovarian and peritoneal tumours originate 
in the fimbria of the fallopian tube (Lederman et al 2013, Newly diagnosed and relapsed epithelial 
ovarian carcinoma: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up, Annals of 
Oncology 24 (S6): vi24–vi32, 2013)”. For the COMP the inclusion of fallopian and primary peritoneal 
cancer is included in the “ovarian cancer” orphan indication, on the basis of common tissue origin, 
molecular pathology, clinical characteristics and natural history leading to the same staging and 
treatment. This inclusion should be reflected in the prevalence calculations as well. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
The already approved indication is: 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-
sensitive relapsed BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high grade serous epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete response or partial 
response) to platinum-based chemotherapy 
is the extension pertains to the following  therapeutic indication: 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-
sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in 
response (complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy.This falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan indication “treatment of ovarian cancer. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor discusses 5 year survival data from the US SEER database, plotted against the stage of 
the disease. The majority of patients diagnosed with locally advanced or metastatic disease die from 
their disease, with 5-year survival rates of 29% for advanced stages.  
It can be acknowledged that the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to pain, weight 
loss, ascites and vaginal bleeding, and life-threatening with approximately half of the patients 
surviving less than five years. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
As an overall comment, the inclusion of fallopian and primary peritoneal cases is not explicit in the 
sponsor’s calculations. 
The applicant reports both 5 year partial prevalence (proposed 2.05 per 10,000) as well as estimates 
of complete prevalence of ovarian cancer (proposed 4.35 per 10,000) for 2017 in Europe. This report 
will only focus on the full point prevalence as the relevant index. This is because late recurrences 
(much more than 5 years) are indeed possible, and such cases are documented and described in 
literature (e.g. Izycka et al, Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2015;36(3):351-3). Cancer research UK also cites 
that approximately 35% of patients survive ten years or more (2010-2011 data).  
The proposed 4.35 complete prevalence was estimated by the formula P=I x D [COMP/436/01]. 
Incidence was derived from Globocan 2012. For 2017 estimates, median survival of 5 years served as 
a surrogate for the disease duration. This estimate for duration was proposed by the applicant on the 
basis of a median survival, sourced from Cancer research UK cumulative survival data.  The applicant 
therefore believes that the statutory threshold of 5/10,000 in the EU is respected. 
There are however several reasons to consider otherwise: 
•  Regarding the duration of the condition, the survival data that the applicant uses are 2010-2011 
data (from the Cancer research UK 2014 source). As such, any recent changes in survival, because 
of diagnostic earlier detection and/or treatment advancements, are not taken into consideration.  
•  Regarding the definition of the condition itelf, it is unclear if the applicant includes primary 
pertineal and fallopian in its considerations. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
• 
The applicant acknowledges that in the RARECARE report  (Rarecare 2017) a combined complete 
prevalence for subsets of epithelial rare tumours of ovary and fallopian tube (which includes 
adenocarcinoma with variants of ovary, mucinous adenocarcinoma of ovary, clear cell 
adenocarcinoma of ovary, adenocarcinoma with variants of fallopian tube) challenges the statutory 
threshold and cites a figure of 5.32 per 10,000. The Rarecare website accessed on Nov 29, yields a 
5.9 per 10,000 including ovarian and fallopian cancer. The sponsor notes that the source data used 
by RARECARE does not come from all EU countries. In addition, that not all countries use national 
regisitries, and instead have estimated incidence and prevalence on regional databases that do not 
include all patients in a given country. These reasons may be further elaborated in a list of issues. 
• 
There is substantial uncertainty regarding the epidemiology of the condition in the literature (J Natl 
Cancer Inst. 2017 Oct 1;109(10) which argues that “with most studies capturing exposure 
information from 10 or more years ago, evaluation of how changing patterns of exposures, such as 
new oral contraceptive formulations and increased intrauterine device use, might influence ovarian 
cancer risk and survival is difficult”. The use of updated data is relevant in that regard. A newer 
epidemiological report that was published from Rarecare in November 2017 could also have been 
commented on. (Rare ovarian tumours: Epidemiology, treatment challenges in and outside a 
network setting,Ray-Coquard et al, EJSO November 2017). 
The sponsor was invited to elaborate on a) the inclusion of fallopian and primary peritoneal b) the 
reliance of the 2017 estimate on older data and justify the exclusion of Rarecare considerations. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Several medicinal products are authorised in the EU for the treatment of ovarian cancer such as 
bevacizumab, carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, docetaxel, doxorubicin, epirubicin, 5FU, 
irinotecan, mephalan, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, paclitaxel, treosulphan, pazopanib, trabectedin, 
olaparib, niraparib.  
The last addition of niraparib refers to the following indication: Zejula is indicated as monotherapy for 
the maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum sensitive relapsed high grade serous 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or 
partial) to platinum based chemotherapy. Therefore a very similar indication to the one proposed for 
Lynparza. 
European Guidelines have been published by ESMO (Newly diagnosed and relapsed epithelial ovarian 
carcinoma: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up Lederman et al 
2013, Annals of Oncology 24 (S6): vi24–vi32, 2013). 
As per these guidelines, the role of surgery is important for both early and advanced disease. In early 
stage primary treatment the role of surgery is also important for staging, while for advanced disease 
complete cytoreduction of all macroscopic visible disease, after a maximal surgical effort, has been 
shown to be associated with a significantly increased survival. However, the value of surgical 
cytoreduction in relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer remains controversial and is not regarded as 
standard of care. Adjuvant carboplatin single-agent chemotherapy is considered for patients with 
intermediate and high-risk stage I disease. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
Chemotherapy is recommended for all patients with FIGO stage II–IV disease post-surgery. Standard 
chemotherapy consists of a combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin every 3 weeks. With regards to 
treatment of recurrent disease, patients experiencing a durable response to platinum induction have a 
high probability to respond again to platinum compounds, but salvage chemotherapy in platinum 
refractory patients’ results in low response rates. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor provides a discussion versus niraparib, which has a similar indication in maintenance of 
platinum sensitive relapsed (PSR) patients. No other product has a label as monotherapy maintenance 
treatment in that population, and as such a discussion versus niraparib would be most relevant. An 
indirect comparison of the results from study 19 and SOLO2 versus the pivotal study for niraparib 
(NOVA) is performed by the sponsor and the data are juxtaposed and critically discussed. 
The argument of SB is double: a claim for improved efficacy and a claim of improved safety. 
On the first point, the sponsor argues that the magnitude of benefit observed with olaparib in PSR 
ovarian cancer patients was similar to or better than that demonstrated with either bevacizumab or 
niraparib (olaparib HR 0.35 vs HR 0.48 for bevacizumab vs HR 0.42 for niraparib [FDA pooled 
analysis]). It is also stressed that the final OS data from Study 19 with >6 year follow up and at 79% 
maturity demonstrated a notable numerical benefit for patients treated with olaparib, which while not 
statistically significant (due to multiple testing of OS and testing within a subgroup of the full analysis 
set) was numerically superior in magnitude to OS data from approved agents (which also had less 
mature OS data and/or were also not statistically significant).  
Table 1.  PFS and OS data of the two pivotal studies (adopted from the sponsor’s application) 
Those arguments of the sponsor have however to be considered with caution. Indeed, the PFS 
comparison versus niraparib, shows similar and comparable outcomes regarding HR, notwithstanding 
that the comparability of the two studies has not been commented upon. The existence of long term 
data for Study19 versus the non-existence of mature OS data for NOVA does not produce any relevant 
arguments either, but rather confirms that comparison and hence justification of significant benefit is 
not possible. The HR of death are similar for the two studies.   
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
A second significant benefit argument is put forward on the basis of improved safety versus niraparib.It 
was argued that Study 19 and SOLO2 were broadly similar in terms of design and patient population, 
both to each other, and to that of the overall safety analysis population included in the NOVA study 
conducted with niraparib. Data from these two olaparib studies have been pooled and an indirect 
comparison of olaparib and niraparib was performed.  
Olaparib was favoured for haematological toxicity (anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and 
leukopenia), rash, dyspnea, nasopharyngitis, stomatitis, constipation, dry mouth, AST and ALT 
elevation, myalgia, anxiety, insomnia, palpitations and hypertension. Many of these are toxicities that 
require management with intervention or dose modifications. Niraparib was favoured for dysgeusia, 
fatigue/asthenia and diarrhoea.  
An additional comparison was conducted for key toxicities at grade ≥3 using active and placebo data 
from the olaparib pooled studies and NOVA. Figure 1 shows a forest plot comparing the treatment 
difference between the pooled olaparib data and the corresponding pooled placebo data, and the 
niraparib and placebo data in the NOVA study. Points further to the left indicate a more favourable 
comparison for the drug compared to the placebo group in the study.  
Figure 1.  Forest plots for key adverse events (grade ≥3) in pooled olaparib data vs. placebo as 
compared with NOVA vs placebo (from the sponsor’s application) 
In this comparison, the haematological toxicities in particular show an improved profile for olaparib vs. 
placebo, compared to niraparib vs. placebo. The discontinuation rates would be more relevant to 
document the extent of any differences in safety profiles. 
The sponsor was requested to elaborate on the extent of the differences in the context of comparability 
of the two study populations.  
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Prevalence 
The sponsor invited to elaborate on a) the inclusion of fallopian and primary peritoneal cancer b) the 
choice of the epidemiological index and the duration of the condition and c) the available RARECARE 
data. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is arguing a significant benefit on the basis of both improved efficacy and safety. 
The sponsor is invited to further elaborate on both of those points by discussing the comparability of 
the pivotal studies that are juxtaposed, and comment on the extent of any differences in that context.  
A comparative discussion versus all authorised products for the condition as applied for is expected. 
Withdrawal Assessment Report – Orphan Maintenance  
EMA/214775/2018 
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
