SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Lyrica. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
Introduction 
The  active  substance  of  Lyrica  is  pregabalin.  The  original  claimed  indication  was  the  treatment  of 
neuropathic pain in adults and as adjunctive therapy for patients 12 years of age and older with partial 
seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation.  The  dose  range  is  150  to  600  mg  per  day. 
Pregabalin  is  an  analogue  of  the  mammalian  neurotransmitter  gamma-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA). 
Although  its  precise  mechanism  of  action  is  still  unclear,  pregabalin  decreases  central  neuronal 
excitability  by  binding  to  an  auxiliary  subunit  (α2-δ  protein)  of  a  voltage-gated  calcium  channel  on 
neurons  in  the  central  nervous  system.    Pregabalin  reduces  the  release  of  several  neurotransmitters, 
including glutamate, noradrenaline, and substance P. This application concerns a complete application 
concerning a new active substance according to article 8.3 (i) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Neuropathic pain 
Neuropathic  pain  is  defined  as  “Pain  initiated  or  caused  by  a  primary  lesion  or  dysfunction  in  the 
nervous system”. Neuropathic pains are divided into peripheral neuropathic pain due to lesion of the 
peripheral  nervous  system  and  central  pain  following  lesions  of  the  central  nervous  system. 
Neuropathic  pain  commonly  is  described  as  hot  burning,  throbbing,  shooting,  lancinating,  stabbing, 
sharp,  cramping,  gnawing,  aching,  heavy,  tender,  splitting,  tiring,  exhausting,  sickening,  fearful, 
punishing,  cruel,  icy  cold,  tingling,  pins  and  needles,  intense  and  itch  like.  Medical  descriptors  are 
allodynia (pain due to a stimulus which does not normally provoke pain), hyperalgesia (an increased 
response to a stimulus which is normally painful), hyperaesthesia (increased sensitivity to stimulation, 
excluding the special senses), dysaesthesia (an unpleasant abnormal sensation, whether spontaneous or 
evoked),  hyperpathia  (a  painful  syndrome  characterised  by  an  abnormally  painful  reaction  to  a 
stimulus, especially a repetitive stimulus, as well as an increased threshold) and neuralgia (pain in the 
distribution  of  a  nerve  or  nerves  not  necessarily  of  paroxysmal  quality).  Neuropathic  pain  may  be 
associated  with  mood  changes,  sleep  disturbance,  fatigue  and  may  have  an  impact  on  physical  and 
social functioning. The prevalence of neuropathic pain is estimated to be about 1%. 
The  relationship  between  aetiology,  pathophysiology and symptoms in  neuropathic  pain is complex. 
After  a  nerve  injury,  stimulus  independent  pain  may  be  evoked  by  an  accumulation  of  sodium 
channels  in  the  injured  neurons,  the  expression  of  α-adrenoreceptors  on  injured  axons,  sprouting  of 
sympathic  axons  into  the  dorsal  root  ganglion  and  disinhibition  of  dorsal  horn  neurons.  This 
disinhibition  is  thought  to  be  due  to  a  reduction  in  GABA,  down  regulation  of  GABA  and  Opioid 
receptors  at  dorsal  horn  neurons  and  loss  of  inhibition  by  interneurons  of  the  dorsal  horn.  Stimulus 
dependent pain is thought to be due to sensitisation of dorsal horn neurons mediated by glutamate and 
stimulation  of  NMDA  receptor.  These  mechanisms  offer  a  framework  for  pharmacotherapy  of 
neuropathic pain. 
Well-known neuropathic pain syndromes are diabetic neuropathy and post-herpetic neuralgia. 
Diabetic neuropathy causing pain is present in 10% of the cases at the time of diagnosis of diabetes 
and  is  more  than  50%  after  25  years  of  the  diabetic  disease.  Painful  diabetic  neuropathy  is  mostly 
associated  with  chronic  distal  diabetic  sensory-motor  polyneuropathy.  Persistent  burning  pains 
affecting the feet, ankles and lower leg is the most common symptom. The pain may cause disturbance 
of  sleep  and  psychological  distress.  Painful  neuropathy  in  diabetics  however,  is  not  limited  to 
polyneuropathy.  Proximal  mononeuropathies,  truncal  neuropathy  and  cranial  mononeuropathies  also 
often occur.  
Postherpetic  neuralgia  may  be  considered  a  complication  of  herpes  zoster.  If  pain  persists  for  more 
than a few months, it is unlikely to resolve spontaneously. It is estimated that about 9-14% of patients 
with herpes zoster develops postherpetic neuralgia. The incidence increases rapidly with high age. 
Other neuropathic syndromes are trigeminal neuralgia, pain following amputation, and central pain. A 
variety of pain conditions may have a neuropathic component, e.g. cancer neuropathic pain. 
1/42 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neuropathic pain has been shown to be therapy resistant. Usually a list of possible effective agents is 
tried until an agent and dose is found that provides satisfactory control of the pain for that individual 
patient.  However,  the  treatment  effect  of  conventional  agents  is  disappointing  and  if  an  effect  is 
observed  it  is  usually  transient.    A  number  of  agents  have  been  used  in  neuropathic  pain  including 
NSAID’s,  opioids,  antidepressants,  anticonvulsants,  excitatory  amino  acid  antagonists,  GABA-ergic 
agonists,  Substance  P  antagonists  etc.  Low  doses  of  carbamazepine  and  amitriptyline  have  been 
recommended for neuropathic pain in general. However, there is no acknowledged standard treatment 
for the neuropathic pain in the EU. In several European countries carbamazepine and amitriptyline are 
used  off-label  for  this  indication.  In  some  Member  states  gabapentin  has  been  approved  for  the 
treatment of neuropathic pain.  
Epilepsy 
Epilepsy  is  a  common  neurological  disorder,  with  a  worldwide  estimated  prevalence  of  50  million. 
Epilepsy  may  be  defined  as  a  continuing  tendency  to  experience  epileptic  seizures.  For 
epidemiological purposes, the definition is that of more than one non-febrile seizure of any type. The 
two peaks in incidence are in early childhood and in the elderly (> 65 years). Although patients with 
epilepsy  may  recover  spontaneously  over  time,  about  20-30%  of  all  patients  will  have  life-long 
epilepsy. 
The  classification  of  epileptic  seizures  according  to  the  International  Classification  of  Epileptic 
Seizures  (ILAE)  depends  upon  clinical  symptoms  and  signs  during  the  seizure,  and  the  age  of  the 
patient at onset. Both aetiology (idiopathic, symptomatic and cryptogenic) and localization (partial vs 
generalised) are considered crucial prerequisites for an adequate approach of epileptic disorders. The 
debate on these topics is still ongoing. In the case of partial seizures, there is always a focus, and this 
type of epilepsy is limited to one part of one hemisphere. Partial seizures can be further sub-divided 
into  simple  partial  (without  impairment  of  consciousness),  complex  partial  (with  impairment  of 
consciousness  with  or  following  a  simple  partial  onset)  and  secondarily  generalised  (i.e.  partial 
seizures, either simple or complex, which evolve to generalised tonic-clonic seizures). Simple partial 
seizures, depending on the anatomical site of origin of the seizure discharge, may be motor, sensory, 
aphasic, cognitive, affective, dysmnesic, illusional, olfactory or psychic. Primary generalized seizures 
do not have a focus and are classified as absence, tonic, atonic, myoclonic and tonic-clonic seizures. 
The complex partial and tonic-clonic types account for the majority (60%) of seizure types.  
The  burden  of  epilepsy  is  high  to  the  patients  themselves,  their  families  and  society.  Patients  with 
epilepsy  have  a  mortality  risk  approximately  two  to  three  times  that  of  the  general  population,  with 
Sudden  Unexplained  Death  in  Epilepsy  (SUDEP)  a  well-recognised  complication  of  the  condition 
itself. Many patients have additional behavioural, neurological and/or intellectual disturbances. 
The  pathophysiology  of  most  forms  of  epilepsy  remains  poorly  understood,  but  it  is  known  that 
epileptic  seizures  arise  from  an  excessively  synchronous  and  sustained  discharge  of  a  group  of 
neurones.  The  feature  common  to  all  epileptic  syndromes  is  a  persistent  increase  in  neuronal 
excitability.  Established  antiepileptic  drugs  decrease  neuronal  membrane  excitability  by  interacting 
with  ion  channels  (e.g.  sodium,  potassium  or  calcium  channels)  or  neurotransmitter  receptor 
complexes  (mostly  promotion  of  inhibitory  GABA-ergic  neurotransmission,  or  interference  with  the 
glutamate system). 
The treatment of an individual patient with partial seizures relies on diagnosing the seizure type and 
epilepsy syndrome, and is focussed on the reduction of seizure frequency, with seizure freedom as the 
ultimate  goal.  Usually,  treatment  consists  of  daily  anticonvulsant  medication.  Antiepileptic  drugs 
share their activity at the central nervous system, and therefore have similar side effects, i.e. sedation, 
somnolence, lethargy and ataxia. Product specific side effects and individual differences in tolerability 
require a treatment regime that is adjusted to the individual patient. In approximately 70% of patients, 
monotherapy will satisfy, whereas in another 10% of patients treatment with more than one compound 
is necessary. Still, up to 30% of patients remain refractory to conventional treatment. For this reason, 
over  the  past  decade,  several  new  antiepileptic  drugs  were  developed  and  marketed  (a/o.  felbamate, 
gabapentin, lamotrigine, topiramate, levetiracetam), in order to optimise the therapeutic spectrum and 
risk/benefit profile. 
2/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Lyrica is presented as hard capsules containing 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200 or 300 mg of pregabalin as 
active substance. The different strengths can be distinguished by the imprinting, colour and size of the 
capsules. 
The other ingredients include lactose monohydrate, maize starch, talc, hard gelatin capsule shell and 
imprinting ink. 
Lyrica  is  supplied  in  PVC/Aluminium  blister  (14,  21,  56  and  84  pack  size)  and  PVC/Aluminium 
perforated unit dose blister (100x1 pack size).  
Drug Substance  
Pregabalin is the S enantiomer of 3-(aminoethyl)-5-methylhexanoic acid, an analogue of the gamma-
aminobutyric acid (GABA) mammalian neurotransmitter. 
It is a white to off-white, highly crystalline, non-hygroscopic and water soluble (freely soluble below 
pH  3.7)  powder.  It  contains  one  chiral  centre,  but  is  synthesised  as  the  single  enantiomer  S.  The 
absolute configuration has been confirmed by X-ray crystallographic analysis. Pregabalin exists as a 
single anhydrous and not solvated crystal form. Polymorph screening performed during development 
did not indicate any possible solid-state form transition events.  
Manufacture 
• 
Pregabalin  is  prepared  at  three  different  sites  through  a  two-step  chemical  synthesis.  The  first  step 
consists of the synthesis of pregabalin racemate from commercially available starting materials. The 
undesired R enantiomer is subsequently removed by a classical resolution method. Pregabalin crude is 
terminally purified by recrystallisation from isopropyl alcohol and water to give pregabalin.  
Some  identified  non-clinical  and  clinical  batches  have  been  produced  by  a  different  synthetic  route, 
but with essentially the same specification (no major differences in impurity profile). 
Satisfactory specifications and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials, key 
intermediate (pregabalin racemate), reagents and solvents. 
Specification 
• 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  test  for  appearance,  identity  (IR  and  chiral  HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC),  impurities,  water  content  (PhEur),  heavy  metals  (PhEur),  residue  on  ignition  (PhEur), 
residual solvents, bulk density and particle size. 
The formation of the desired enantiomer of pregabalin is ensured through the route of synthesis and 
confirmed by a chiral identity test. In addition, the R enantiomer is controlled as part of the specified 
impurities.  
Particle size is part of the specification, but is not expected to be a critical parameter with regards to 
the bioavailability of the capsules, taking into account the water solubility of pregabalin. This has been 
confirmed by the broad range particle size distribution of drug substance lots used in clinical studies 
(see pharmaceutical development). 
Specification  limits  have  been  adequately  justified  by  analytical,  stability  and  toxicity  data.  The 
analytical methods used in routine controls have been suitably described and validated. 
Batch analysis data provided for 95 lots prepared using the commercial (n=91) and the development 
synthesis routes have shown no major differences, especially in term of impurity profiles. These data 
confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
Stability 
• 
Stability  data  have  been  provided  for  3  batches  synthesized  by  the  commercial  process.  3-year  data 
under long term conditions (25°C/60% RH – intended packaging) and 6-month data under accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75% RH– intended packaging) have been provided. A photostability study has been 
performed and indicates that the drug substance is not light sensitive. No racemisation of pregabalin 
was shown during stress stability studies. 
3/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
A  3-year  retest  period  is  supported  by  the  presented  data  when  the  substance  is  stored  in  sealed 
doubled low density polyethylene bags placed in drums with secure fitting lids.  
Drug Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
• 
Pregabalin being a highly soluble and highly permeable compound, the oral dosage form developed is 
of standard formulation. The excipients selected are of PhEur quality, commonly used for this type of 
dosage form and were selected based on compatibility studies with the drug substance.  
Particle size distribution of the drug substance has been shown not to adversely impact drug product 
manufacture and performance (see drug substance).  
Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  satisfactory  certificates  of  suitability  have  been  provided  for  the  gelatine 
capsule shells. The lactose derived from milk of bovine origin has been considered in compliance with 
the current TSE requirements. 
The  PVC/aluminium  blister  selected  meet  the  PhEur  requirements  for  packaging  material  and  is  in 
compliance with European regulation on plastic  materials and  articles intended to come into contact 
with foodstuffs. 
With  the  exception  of  an  aqueous  oral  solution  used  in  low-dose  phase  1  study,  powder-filled  hard 
gelatine capsules of similar qualitative composition, ranging in dose from 5 to 300 mg, and prepared 
from  powder  blend  formulation  series  A  (25%  pregabalin  w/w),  B  (44.44%  pregabalin  w/w)  or  C 
(75% pregabalin w/w) have been used throughout clinical development.  
Representative  formulations  from  each  series  have  shown  to  have  similar  dissolution  profiles  as 
defined  by  the  Note  for  guidance  on  the  investigation  of  bioavailability  and  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8. Based on this result and taking into account the 
characteristics  of  the  drug  substance  and  of  the  drug  product,  it  is  acceptable  not  to  perform  a 
bioequivalence study between clinical and commercial formulations. 
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
The  method  of  manufacture  involves  the  following  operations:  delumping  of  pregabalin  and  of  the 
excipients,  blending  and  encapsulation.  In  order  to  accommodate  the  range  of  dosage  strengths,  2 
powder blends formulation are used for commercial manufacturing. Formulation series A containing 
25% w/w pregabalin is used to produce 25 and 50  mg capsules  and formulation series C containing 
75% w/w pregabalin is used to produce the other strengths.  
Satisfactory  validation  data  have  been  provided  for  1  of  each  full-scale  powder  blend  and  the 
corresponding  capsules.  No  change  of  formulation  or  process  has  been  necessary  during  scale-up, 
confirming the robustness of the formulation and of the process. 
Product Specification 
• 
The  product  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identity 
(HPLC,  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurity  content  (HPLC),  dissolution,  uniformity  of  mass  (PhEur), 
identification of colourants (non routine test) and microorganism count (PhEur non routine test).  
Batch analysis data have been provided for 45 batches from both formulation series. All data comply 
with the specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
Stability of the Product 
• 
Stability data under long-term conditions (25°C/60% RH – intended packaging) are available for 24 
months  and  36  months  for  respectively  9  lots  and  1  lot  packed  in  clear  PVC  blister.  6  months 
accelerated  stability  data  (40°C/75%  RH–  intended  packaging)  are  available  for  22  batches.  A 
photostability study showed that the drug product is non-light sensitive.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate  taken  into  account  the  properties  and  stability  of  the  water-soluble  drug  substance.  The 
excipients  are  commonly  used  in  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well 
documented.  The  manufacturing  processes  were  developed  and  optimized  to  obtain  reproducible 
4/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
finished product batches. Stability tests under ICH conditions indicate that the products are stable for 
the proposed shelf life. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Lyrica contains pregabalin as drug substance. Pregabalin is a new active substance known chemically 
as  (S)-3-(aminomethyl)-5-methylhexanoic  acid  and  is  structurally  related  to  the  naturally  occurring 
amino  acids  L-leucine  and  γ-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA).  Pregabalin  has  been  developed  for  the 
treatment of neuropathic pain and as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures. 
The maximal recommended dose in humans is 600 mg/day, with an associated mean AUC (0-24) of 
around 123 µg⋅hr/mL. 
Pregabalin was assessed in nonclinical models of analgesia in rats and monkeys, and seizure models in 
mice and rats. The (R)-enantiomer of pregabalin and positive control agents were included in many of 
these  studies.  Pharmacokinetics  were  studied  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  monkey.  A  standard 
nonclinical safety evaluation program was conducted to support oral therapy with pregabalin. 
Pregabalin is structurally and pharmacologically related to gabapentin, an anti-epileptic drug approved 
in most European countries, registered for the adjunctive treatment of refractory partial epilepsy with 
or without secondary generalised seizures. In addition gabapentin has been approved in some Member 
states for the treatment of neuropathic pain. 
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
• 
Pregabalin  is  an  analogue  of  the  mammalian  neurotransmitter  gamma-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA). 
However,  pregabalin  does  not  mediate  its  effects  specifically  though  an  effect  upon  GABA-ergic 
transmission. 
Pregabalin displaces [3H]gabapentin and both in vitro and in vivo  studies with animal models further 
indicate  that  binding  of  pregabalin  to  the  alpha2-delta  auxiliary  subunit  protein  of  voltage-gated 
calcium  channels  affinity  with  high  affinity  (IC50  =  37  nM)  is  required  for  its  pharmacology.  The 
(R)-enantiomer  of  pregabalin  was  10-fold  less  potent  than  pregabalin  (S—enantiomer)  in  binding  at 
these  sites,  consistent  with  the  general  lack  of  effect  in  efficacy  models.  As  determined  by  either 
radioligand  binding  or  functional  assays,  pregabalin  is  inactive  against  41  common  neurotransmitter 
receptors  and  ion  channels.  Pregabalin  partially  reduces  neurotransmitter  release  in  several  in  vitro 
systems at concentrations near 10 µM (1.6 ng/mL). Inhibition is most pronounced with prior activation 
of  neuronal  tissues  (from  prior  peripheral  inflammation  in  vivo,  in  vitro  application  of  sensory 
neuropeptides  or  cellular  second  messengers,  or  by depolarization  lasting  for  120  seconds  or  more). 
In vitro,  pregabalin  reduces  the  release  of  glutamate,  norepinephrine,  Substance P,  and  calcitonin 
gene-related  peptide  from  certain  brain  tissues  and  also  reduces  calcium  influx  in  synaptosomes. 
These  findings  indicate  that  pregabalin  inhibits  calcium  channel  function  in  a  subtle  manner. 
Pregabalin  also  is  a  substrate  for  the  System  L  amino  acid  transporter  of  cell  membranes  that 
contribute to the permeation of pregabalin across membrane barriers. Pregabalin does not change the 
concentration of GABA in rat brain and does not alter binding or responses at GABA-A or GABA-B 
inhibitor  of 
receptors  and 
GABA-transaminase. 
is  not  a  substrate  or  blocker  of  GABA 
transport,  nor  an 
Pregabalin reduces both sensory and motor spinal reflexes induced by toe pinch in rats, and this effect 
was  pronounced only in rats  that  were previously inflamed  by injection of  an  immune antigen  or  in 
rats with neuropathic pain from chronic constriction injury to the sciatic nerve. Pregabalin treatment 
reduces  pain-related  behavior in  neuropathic  animal  models of  diabetes,  peripheral  nerve damage  or 
chemotherapeutic  insult  and  in  a  model  of  musculoskeletal-associated  pain.  Pregabalin  given 
intrathecally  prevents  pain-related  behaviors  and  reduces  pain-related  behavior  caused  by  spinally 
administered agents, suggesting that it acts directly on tissues of the spinal cord or brain. 
Pregabalin is also active in animal models of seizures, including maximal electroshock tonic extensor 
seizures  in  mice  or  rats,  threshold  clonic  seizures  from  pentylenetetrazol,  behavioural  and 
in 
electrographic  seizures 
tonic  and  clonic  seizures 
in  hippocampal  kindled 
rats,  and 
5/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
DBA/2 audiogenic mice.  Pregabalin does not reduce the incidence of spontaneous absence seizures in 
Genetic Absence Epilepsy in Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS). 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
• 
Pregabalin  was  also  investigated  in  animal  models  predictive  of  anxiolytic-like  activity  and 
inflammatory pain.  
Safety pharmacology 
• 
Potential CNS effects of pregabalin were evaluated in 10 studies. The predominant findings in these 
studies were reduced spontaneous locomotor activity and/or ataxia in rats given oral doses ≥25 mg/kg 
and in mice given IV or IP doses ≥300 mg/kg or oral doses of 1000 mg/kg. In the Sidman Avoidance 
test  in  squirrel  monkeys,  pregabalin  dose-dependently  reduced  activity  and  motor  coordination  at 
30 and 100 mg/kg. Pregabalin induced dose-related increases in non-rapid eye movement sleep (non-
REM sleep) at ≥3 mg/kg and decreased REM sleep at ≥30 mg/kg without affecting latency to onset of 
non-REM  sleep  or  overall  sleep  cycle  length.  The  effects  of  pregabalin  resemble  effects  of  sleep 
deprivation  on  subsequent  sleep,  suggesting  pregabalin  induces  a  physiological-like  sleep  without 
significantly affecting total sleep duration. 
No significant effects on cardiovascular parameters were observed in rats given escalating oral doses 
from 10 to 300 mg/kg, in rats given single IV doses of 15 and 150 mg/kg, in dogs given a single oral 
dose of 50 mg/kg, or in monkeys given single IV doses of 10 or 40 mg/kg. Although ECG was only 
evaluated visually for rate and rhythm abnormalities in safety pharmacology studies, a comprehensive 
evaluation, including measurement of QT interval, was conducted in monkeys given pregabalin for up 
to  69  weeks.  Daily  oral  administration  of  pregabalin  for  65  to  69  weeks  at  doses  up  to  500  mg/kg 
produced  no  cardiac  changes  attributable  to  drug  treatment.  No  statistically  significant  differences 
occurred between treated and control groups in echocardiographic parameters except for increases in 
aortic diameter in males at 100, 250 and 500 mg/kg at Week 13 (29%, 19%, and 14%, respectively) 
and increased left ventricular internal dimension (systole) in males at 500 mg/kg at Week 39 (52%). 
The latter was only seen in males at an 8-fold therapeutic exposure. 
No  significant  effects  on  renal  function  were  observed  in  rats  given  single  IV  doses  of  15 and 
150 mg/kg. 
Pulmonary function in anesthetized dogs given a cumulative IV dose of pregabalin of 200 mg/kg was 
unaffected. 
Pregabalin given orally decreased gastric emptying and intestinal transit of a liquid meal in rats given 
100 or 300 mg/kg (4- to 8-times mean human exposure at the maximum recommended dose) but not at 
30  mg/kg  (equivalent  to  mean  human  exposure),  by  a  non-opiate  mechanism.  Nevertheless, 
obstipation  events  were  reviewed  in  clinical  trials  and  no  specific  safety  concerns  were  identified, 
although a slightly higher incidence in pregabalin-treated subjects vs placebo was observed. 
Pregabalin  was  inactive  at  binding  sites  associated  with  drugs  of  abuse.  Pregabalin  did  not  cause 
conditioned place preference in rats, suggesting that pregabalin does not share morphine's rewarding 
properties.  Pregabalin  did  not  produce  opiate-like  or  benzodiazepine-like  discriminative  stimulus 
effects and did not maintain I.V. self-administration responses in rhesus monkeys. Pregabalin induced 
only  modest  and  mostly  statistically  insignificant  withdrawal  signs  in  rats  upon  discontinuation  of 
treatment. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
• 
Non-clinical pharmacodynamic drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted. 
Summary of salient findings 
• 
In vitro studies show that pregabalin interacts with an auxiliary subunit (α2-δ protein) of voltage-gated 
calcium  channels  in  the  central  nervous  system.  Binding  to  this  subunit  is  probably  required  for  its 
analgesic  and  anticonvulsant  activity.  Pregabalin  does  not  interact  with  either  GABAA  or  GABAB 
receptors;  it  is  not  converted  metabolically  into  GABA  or  a  GABA  agonist;  it  is  not  an  inhibitor  of 
GABA  uptake  or  degradation.  Although  its  precise  mechanism  of  action  is  still  unclear,  pregabalin 
decreases central neuronal excitability by binding to an auxiliary subunit (α2-δ protein) of a voltage-
gated calcium channel on neurons in the central nervous system. In addition, pregabalin reduces the 
release  of  several  neurotransmitters,  including  glutamate,  noradrenaline,  and  substance  P.  The 
significance of these effects for the clinical pharmacology of pregabalin is not known. 
6/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Pregabalin  induces  modest  ataxia  and  reduced  spontaneous  locomotor  activity  in  rats  given  ≥  25 
mg/kg  P.O.,  but  has  no effect  on  cardiovascular parameters. A detailed evaluation of cardiovascular 
safety was performed in a repeated dose toxicity study in monkeys. The analgesic and anticonvulsant 
actions  of  pregabalin  occur  at  doses  that  lack  obvious  behavioral  side  effects.  Pregabalin  has  a  low 
potential for drug abuse or physical dependence. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  elimination  of  pregabalin  were  investigated  in  the 
species  used  in  pharmacology  and/or  toxicology  studies  (mouse,  rat,  and  monkey),  using  similar  or 
identical  formulations.  The  metabolism  was  also  studied  in  dogs.  Dose  proportionality  and 
accumulation  were  assessed  using  multiple-dose  pregabalin  toxicokinetic  data  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit, 
and monkey. 
Plasma pregabalin concentrations in mouse, rat, rabbit and monkey were determined using  validated 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assays. The limit of quantification was 0.1 ug/ml in 
all species. Pregabalin concentrations were quantified in dog plasma using a similar HPLC assay. 
No  in  vitro  or  in  vivo  racemization  of  pregabalin  (S-enantioner)  to  PD  144550  (R-enantiomer)  was 
observed. 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
• 
Pregabalin  is  well  absorbed  following  oral  administration.  Absolute  bioavailability  of  pregabalin  is 
high  (>80%)  in  mice  and  rats  at  a  50-mg/kg  dose  and  in  monkeys  at  a  10-mg/kg  dose.  In  general, 
pregabalin  exposure  is  dose-proportional  up  to  2500 mg/kg  in  mice  and  rats  (except  for  gravid  and 
lactating rats), and up to 50 mg/kg in monkeys. 
Distribution 
• 
[14C]Pregabalin is widely distributed in most tissues and crosses the blood-brain barrier in mouse, rat, 
and monkey after oral administration. Radioequivalents concentrate in the pancreas of mice and rats, 
but not in primates. Distribution in pancreas may be related to affinity to branched-chain amino acid 
aminotransferase  (BCAT),  an  enzyme  found  in  high  concentrations  in  rodent  pancreas.  Pregabalin 
does  not  bind  to  mouse,  rat,  monkey,  or  human  plasma  proteins.  [14C]Pregabalin  red  blood  cell 
(RBC)/plasma partition coefficients range from 0.69 to 0.80 for all species tested. 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
• 
Pregabalin  undergoes  minimal  metabolism  in  mouse,  rat,  and  monkey  with  unchanged  parent 
representing the majority (≥90%) of drug-derived material in urine. A minor metabolite representing 
2% to 3% of the urinary radioactivity in mouse and rat is identified as the N-methyl metabolite (PD 
0155083).  In  monkey,  only  1 minor  (<1%)  unidentified  component  is  detected  in  the  urine.  In  dog, 
approximately 45% of the pregabalin dose is excreted in urine as N-methyl metabolite (PD 0155083). 
No  significant  inhibition  of  major  cytochrome  CYP450 isoforms  is  observed  up  to  a  pregabalin 
concentration  of  1 mM.  The  potential  for  metabolism  related  drug-drug  interaction  is  low  at 
therapeutic concentrations of pregabalin. 
Excretion 
• 
Urine is the principal route of 14C excretion following [14C]pregabalin administration. In mouse, rat, 
and dog, ≥80% of the [14C] pregabalin oral dose is present in the 0- to 24-hour urine sample, while 
71%  to  75%  is  excreted  by  monkey  during  the  same  interval.  Higher  than  90%  of  the  dose  was 
recovered in 0-96 hour urine in rat and monkey. 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters (in different species) 
• 
Pregabalin  is  well  absorbed  after  oral  administration  (exposure  is  dose-proportional  at  doses  up  to 
2500 mg/kg in rats and up to 50 mg/kg in monkeys), widely distributed in most tissues (and readily 
crosses the blood-brain barrier in mice, rats, and monkeys), does not bind plasma proteins (in mouse, 
rat, monkey and human), undergoes minimal metabolism in mouse, rat, and monkey with unchanged 
parent  representing  ≥90%  of  drug-derived  material  in  urine.  In  contrast  to  other  animal  species  and 
humans,  approximately  45%  of  the  pregabalin  dose  is  excreted  in  urine  as  N-methyl  metabolite  in 
dogs. These data also confirm selection of the rat and  monkey as appropriate species for toxicology 
studies. No significant inhibition of major cytochrome CYP450 isoforms was observed at pregabalin 
concentrations up to 1 mM. 
7/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
• 
The acute oral and IV toxicity of pregabalin was assessed in adult mice and rats. The four single dose 
toxicity studies are summarised in the table below. 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/group 
Mouse 
3-5/sex/gp 
Rat 
3-5/sex/gp 
Mouse 
3-5/sex/gp 
Rat 
3-5/sex/gp 
Dose/Route (mg/kg)  Observed max non-
Major findings 
Oral: 0, 5000 
Oral: 0, 5000 
IV: 0, 300 
IV: 0, 300 
lethal dose 
5000 
5000 
300 
300 
Mild hypo-activity in males 
Mild hypo-activity, diarrhoea, 
urine staining 
None 
Hypo-activity, ataxia, urine 
staining 
No mortality was observed after single oral administration of 5000 mg/kg and single IV administration 
of 300 mg/kg to mice and rats. Observed effects were hypo-activity in mice and rats and diarrhoea, 
ataxia, and urine staining in rats. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
• 
Repeated-dose oral and IV toxicity was evaluated in rats and monkeys. Twelve oral GLP repeat dose 
toxicity studies were conducted in rats (14 days, two assays of 1 month, 3 months and 6 month/1 year) 
and cynomolgus monkeys (escalating dose study, 14 days, two assays of 1 month, 4-day toxicokinetic 
study, 3 months, 65-69 weeks). Pivotal studies are summarised in the table below. 
Pivotal repeated dose toxicity studies. 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
(mg/kg) 
Duration 
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
Major findings 
Rat 
250-01730 
Rat 
18-21/sex/gp 
Oral (diet): 
0, 50, 100, 
250 
4 weeks 
NOEL 
M: 50 
F: 100 
250-01722 
Rat 
18-21/sex/gp 
Oral (diet): 
0, 500, 
1250, 2500, 
5000 
4 weeks 
< 500 
745-02570 
Rat 
10-22/sex/gp 
Oral (diet): 
0, 50, 250, 
500, 1250 
13 weeks  NOEL: 50 
≥100: M: weight pancreas and prostate ↓ 
250: tail dermatopathy, platelets ↓ 
≥500: Ataxia, hypo-activity and 
hyperreactivity in wk 1, platelets ↓, tail 
dermatopathy, urine staining. M: body wt 
gain ↓, RBC + Hb + Ht ↑, urinary bladder 
dilatation, hypospermia epididymides 
≥1250: cyt p450 ↑. F: body wt gain ↓ 
≥2500: F: RBC ↑, pancreas wt ↓ 
5000: bone marrow megakaryocytes ↓, 
pancreas atrophy + single cell necrosis, 
histopathologic changes in urinary system 
resulting in death. M: pancreas wt ↓, 
prostate atrophy + wt ↓ 
≥250: RBC ↑, platelets ↓. M: Ht ↑, body 
wt gain ↓, pancreas decreased acinar cell 
granules. F: bone marrow hypocellularity, 
MCH ↓ 
≥500: food cons. ↓. M: bone marrow 
hypocellularity, MCH ↓ 
1250: tail dermatopathy, urinary bladder 
oedema + hemorrhage + hyperplasia, 
thymus hemorrhage + mild lymphoid 
depletion. M: testis degeneration 
spermatogenic epithelium. F: hypo-
activity, urine staining, body wt gain ↓, 
pyelonephritis 
8/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
(mg/kg) 
Duration 
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
Major findings 
Rat 
745-02683 
Rat 
25/sex/gp 
Oral (diet): 
0, 50, 250, 
500 
26-52 
weeks 
M: 
NOAEL: 50 
F: < 50 
Monkey 
745-02329 
Monkey 
4/sex/gp 
745-02559 
Monkey 
3-4/sex/gp 
745-02646 
Monkey 
3/sex/gp 
Oral 
(gavage): 0, 
25, 50, 100, 
500, 500 
BID 
Oral 
(gavage): 0, 
10, 25, 100, 
500 
Oral 
(gavage): 0, 
10, 25, 100, 
250/500 
4 weeks 
NOEL: 25 
13 weeks  NOEL:> 10 
65-69 
weeks 
< 10 
≥50: M: RBC ↑, MCV ↓, platelets ↓. F: 
pyelonephritis 
≥250: tail dermatopathy, bone marrow 
hypocellularity and salivary gland 
secretion ↓. M: food cons. ↓, platelet 
volume ↓, macrophages in lungs. F: urine 
staining, RBC ↑, MCV ↓, platelets ↓ 
500: macrophages in lungs, M: urinary 
bladder hemorrhage + oedema: body wt 
gain ↓, F: food cons. ↓. 
≥50: heart weight ↑, mild focal 
myocardialde generation/fibrosis ≥100: 
nasal cavity inflammation ≥500: 
diarrhoea, ataxia, tail dermatopathy, 
tail/extremities inflammation 
500 BID: reproductive organ weight ↓ 
(reversible), minimal to mild necrosis and 
lymphocytolysis in lymphoid organs, 
kidney dilatation 
≥25: M: tail dermatopathy 
≥100: F: tail dermatopathy 
500: soft faeces, diarrhea. 
M: RBC + Hb + Ht ↓ 
≥10: M: thymus lymphoid involution 
≥25: prostate lymphocytic infiltrate, F: 
tail dermatopathy 
≥100: slight erythrocyte autoagglutination 
250/500: diarrhoea. F: lymphocytic 
infiltrate ventricle. M: tail dermatopathy,  
Both  in  rats  and  in  monkeys,  mortality  occurred  at  exposures  7-9  times  the  maximal  daily  human 
exposure;  in  rats,  mortality  occurred  sporadically  at  this  exposure  multiple,  associated  with 
pyelonephritis and/or cystitis.  
In  rats,  generally,  body  weight  gain  and  food  consumption  were  decreased.  However,  in  the  rat 
carcinogenicity  study  body  weight  and  food  consumption  increased  in  the  low  dose  group.  In 
monkeys, decreased food consumption was only observed in one study. 
CNS  effects  such  as  ataxia  and  hypoactivity,  but  also  hyperactivity  were  observed  in  rats  and 
monkeys.  
In  some  intravenous  studies  in  monkeys,  tremors  and  convulsions  were  seen  as  well.  In  rats,  urine 
staining was observed frequently. 
In  both  rats  and  monkeys,  dermatopathy  and  vasculopathy  were  observed,  primarily  on  the  tail,  but 
also on the extremities, and, in IV studies in monkeys, also on mucous membranes. In IV studies in 
monkeys, the lesions  were  more widespread.  The primary  alteration involved  damage  to  endothelial 
cells  of  superficial  blood  vessels  (vasculopathy)  in  skin  and  mucous  membrane.  Temperature 
measurements of the tail of monkeys did not indicate changes in blood perfusion. A local lymphe node 
assay in rats gave no indication for allergic dermatitis. 
Effects  on  haematology  were  not  consistent.  In  rats,  increases  were  observed  in  red  blood  cells, 
haemoglobin and hematocrit, whereas in monkeys these parameters were decreased. In rats, platelets 
were decreased and there was a decrease in bone marrow megakaryocytes and total nucleated cells. In 
monkeys,  platelets  were  decreased  in  one  study,  but  otherwise  there  were  no  relevant  effects  on 
platelets. Haematological changes in mice are described below when carcinogenicity is discussed. 
Effects  on  the  urogenital  tissues  were  observed,  consisting  of  dilatation  of  urinary  bladder  (in  one 
study  accompanied  by  oedema,  haemorrhage  and  hyperplasia)  and  renal  pelvis  in  rats  and  kidney 
9/42          
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
dilatation in monkeys. Pyelonephritis was observed occasionally in rats and occurred dose-related in 
males  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study at  all  doses.  In  the  same  study,  distension  of  the  uterine  horn 
was  observed  in  the  high  dose  females.  In  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies,  there  were  effects  on  male 
reproductive  organs:  hypospermia,  interstitial  fibrosis  in  epididymides,  prostatic  atrophy  and 
degeneration of spermatogenic epithelium in the testes of rats and, in one study only, hypospermia in 
monkeys.  On  retrospective  examination,  no  significant  effects  were  observed  on  spermatogenesis  in 
the testes of rats. In the rat carcinogenicity study, epididymal and testicular weight decreased 18% at 
the  high  dose  and  the  incidence  of  small  testes  increased  at  all  doses  and  correlated  with  tubular 
atrophy  observed  histopathologically  and  there  was  a  dose-related  increase  in  the  incidence  of 
aspermia  in  the  epididymides.  The  increased  incidence  of  bilateral  tubular  atrophy  was  not  dose-
related.  The  incidence  of  small  seminal  vesicles  was  increased  at  the  high  dose,  but  there  were  no 
histopathologic changes. Lesions in the male reproductive tract generally were observed in debilitated 
animals or were consistent with spontaneous or age-related changes commonly found in rats.  
Some  signs  of  immunotoxicity  were  observed,  generally  only  at  very  high  exposures,  consisting  in 
haemorrhage  and  mild  lymphoid  depletion  in  the  thymus  of  rats  and  thymus  involution,  minimal  to 
mild lymphoid necrosis and lymphocytolysis in spleen, thymus, lymph nodes and tonsils in monkeys. 
There  were  some  effects  on  the  eyes  of  rats.  Corneal  degeneration  and  mineralization  attributed  to 
anaesthesia and chromodacryorrhea were observed in IV studies and a dose-related increase in retinal 
atrophy, which was more pronounced in females, in the carcinogenicity study was seen.  
In a few treated monkeys from the 4-week pivotal study, some cardiac effects were observed. In these 
monkeys, increased relative heart weights and minimal to mild focal myocardial necrosis or fibrosis of 
the left ventricular wall and/or interventricular septum as well as atrium fibrosis were observed at 3-4 
times  human  exposure.  These  histopathological  studies  were  not  confirmed  in  a  13-week  follow-up 
study.  Extensive  monitoring,  including  ECG,  blood  pressure  and  echocardiography  did  not  reveal 
abnormalities, except for increases in aortic diameter in males at ≥100 mg/kg. Aortas were considered 
normal  upon  gross  and  microscopic  examination,  and  consequently  the  increased  diameter  was  not 
considered significant. From the available data, the daily oral administration of pregabalin for 65 to 69 
weeks  at  doses  up  to  500  mg/kg,  and  exposures  up  to  approximately  8  times  human  exposure, 
produced no cardiac changes attributable to drug treatment. 
In the 52-week rat study, 4 rats died of malignant tumours (mesenchymal tumours, mesothelioma, and 
hemangiosarcoma) in week 32 (2 animals), and weeks 48 and 52 (each 1 animal). 
In one rat study, atrophy and single cell necrosis was observed in the pancreas, but only at very high 
exposures. 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo 
• 
Pregabalin was not genotoxic based on results of a battery of in vitro and in vivo tests: 
- 
- 
in  vitro:  AMES  test  performed  in  the  presence  and  absence  of  various  metabolic  activation 
systems  and  point  mutation  and  structural  chromosome  aberration  assays  in  Chinese  hamster 
ovary cells.  
in vivo: micronucleus test in mouse and rat bone marrow, and, unscheduled DNA synthesis test 
in rat and mouse hepatocytes. 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
• 
Two-year carcinogenicity studies were performed in mice and rats, at the following doses.  
Dose/Route 
0, 200, 1000 and 5000 mg/kg 
Oral/diet 
0, 200, 1000 and 5000 mg/kg 
Oral/diet 
Male: 0, 50, 150 and 450 mg/kg; 
Female: 0, 100, 300 and 900 mg/kg 
Male: 0, 50, 150 and 450 mg/kg; 
Female: 0, 100, 300 and 900 mg/kg 
Species/number of animals 
B6C3F1 mice/ 65 animals/sex/group 
CD-1 mice/ 65 animals/sex/group 
Wistar rats/ 65 animals/sex/group 
Wistar rats/ 65 animals/sex/group 
10/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Pregabalin  induced  an  increase  in  hemangiosarcoma  in  male  and  female  B6C3F1  mice  at  1000 and 
5000 mg/kg, i.e. at exposures ≥5 times the mean human exposure at the maximum recommended dose. 
The  NOAEL  was  seen  at  exposures  equivalent  to  the  mean  human  exposure.  In  CD-1  mice,  an 
increased  incidence  of  hemangiosarcoma  was  observed  at  an  exposure  28  times  the  mean  human 
exposure at the maximum recommended dose. The NOAEL in this study was seen at exposures up to 
5 times mean human exposure. Pregabalin was not carcinogenic in rats at up to 14 and 24 times the 
mean human exposure at the maximum recommended dose in males and females, respectively.  
See “Discussion on the non-clinical aspects”. 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
• 
Studies  to  assess  effects  of  pregabalin  on  fertility  and  general  reproduction  and  prenatal-postnatal 
development were conducted in rats, and embryo-foetal development studies were conducted in mice, 
rats, and rabbits. Additional in vitro and in vivo studies assessed male reproductive toxicity, a series of 
studies examined skull development in rats, and a study evaluated the period of drug exposure during 
prenatal-postnatal development that affected foetal and prenatal survival. 
In the fertility studies effects were observed in treated male rats. At high doses (several tenfold human 
exposure),  epididymides  were  affected,  as  well  as  the  sperm  cells:  sperm  count,  motility  and  the 
number  of  sperm  cells  with  normal  morphology  were  dose-relatedly  decreased.  At  about  77  times 
human  exposure,  the  males  were  infertile.  This  appeared  to  be  a  reversible  effect:  after  6  weeks  of 
recovery,  all  fertility  parameters  returned  to  vehicle  control  values.  The  NOAEL  is  250  mg/kg  (10 
times  human  exposure).  Pregabalin  did  not  produce  detrimental  effects  on  reproductive  function  of 
healthy male subjects given 600 mg/day for 3 months, based on semen analysis and other secondary 
parameters,  when  compared  to  placebo  (see  clinical  section).  Although  some  effects  in  testis  and 
epididymides  seen  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  suggest  long-term  exposure  may  exacerbate 
spontaneous degenerative processes in male reproductive organs in the rat, the negative findings in the 
clinical study and the high doses used in the fertility studies in rats and the reversibility of the effects 
seen at high doses suggest that the findings seen at those high doses in the rat fertility studies and the 
findings in the rat carcinogenicity study are of little or no clinical relevance. The applicant stated that 
female fertility was not affected, however, various parameters pointed to a reduced fertility index and 
prolonged  oestrous  cycles  in  females  at  doses  resulting  in  an  exposure  54-77  times  the  human 
exposure. 
No  maternal  toxicity  was  observed  in  mice  given  pregabalin  up  to  2500 mg/kg  during  the  period  of 
organogenesis.  At  doses  ≥ 1250  mg/kg (14-31  times human  exposure),  ossification was reduced  but 
not in a dose-related manner. Studies in female rats dosed with pregabalin up to 2500 mg/kg showed 
maternal toxicity at all doses, and fetal body weight was decreased at 2500 mg/kg. At high doses (≥ 
1250  mg/kg;  54-77  times  human  exposure),  advanced  ossification  was  observed,  resulting  in  e.g. 
earlier  closure  of  the  suture  between  the  jugal  bone  to  maxilla,  and  of  the  suture  between  the  nasal 
bones.  At  the  same  high  doses,  also  reduced  ossification  was  observed  in  rats.  In  rabbits,  maternal 
toxicity  was  seen  at  all  doses,  and  abortion,  decreased  foetal  and  placental  weights,  and  decreased 
ossification  indicative  of  developmental  toxicity  were  observed  at  1250 mg/kg  (39  times  human 
exposure).  Overall,  developmental  toxicity  was  not  observed  at  clinically  relevant  doses.  Variable 
ossification  is  observed  in  the  animals  at  high  doses.  Due  to  the  high  exposure  multiple  the  deviant 
skull bone ossification is considered not clinically relevant.  
In  a  pre/postnatal  study  in  rats,  pregabalin  induced  maternal  toxicity  at  ≥50 mg/kg  (twice  human 
exposure)  and  offspring  developmental  toxicity  at  ≥100 mg/kg  (5  times  human  exposure).  Fetal  and 
neonatal survival were decreased at ≥250 mg/kg (11 times human exposure), with total litter death at 
2500 mg/kg  (exposure  multiple  is  >70).  In  a  subsequent  time-course  study,  it  was  shown  that  drug-
related  prenatal  mortality  resulted  primarily  from  exposure  during  late  gestation  (gestation  day  17 
through parturition). 
Therefore,  pregabalin  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  benefit  to  the  mother  clearly 
outweighs  the  potential  risk  to  the  foetus.  Effective  contraception  must  be  used  in  women  of  child 
bearing potential. 
Local tolerance 
• 
In rabbits there was no significant irritation after intravenous administration of pregabalin in the ear 
for 5 days, although at the site of injection, the incidence of haemorrhage and oedema seem to have 
11/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
been  slightly  increased  in  treated  animals.  Mild  irritation  occurred  on  rat  ear  skin  in  a  local  lymph 
node assay. There was no evidence of contact sensitization in guinea pigs when the racemic mixture of 
pregabalin was tested. 
Other toxicity studies 
• 
In  view  of  a  possible  paediatric  indication,  the  applicant  studied  juvenile  toxicity  in  single  and 
repeated  dose  studies,  reproductive  toxicity  and  neurotoxicity  in  juvenile  rats  which  were  7  days  at 
study  initiation.  Toxicity  as  observed  in  the  juvenile  rats  does  not  differ  qualitatively  from  that 
observed in adult rats. However, relative to adult rats juvenile rats are similarly sensitive with respect 
to CNS effects and decreased  body weight gain and more sensitive with respect to female and  male 
reproductive effects. In addition, neurobehavioural/cognitive effects were observed in juvenile rats 1-2 
weeks after the exposure period.  
Most  effects  were  observed  at  clinically  relevant  exposures  (CNS,  body  weight  gain)  or  above  the 
mean therapeutic exposure at the maximum recommended dose (female reproductive effects).  
Alterations in acoustic startle response and impaired performance in learning and memory tests were 
not  pharmacological  but  signs  of  developmental  toxicity,  since  they  were  observed  in  the  drug  free 
period after exposure. The fact that no behavioural/cognitive effects were observed in adult humans is 
not  sufficiently  reassuring,  since  these  effects  may  be  related  to  the  developing  state  of  the  brain. 
Therefore  the  reversibility  of  these  effects  should  be  further  addressed  in  non-clinical  study.  See 
discussion on non-clinical aspects. 
It  has  been  demonstrated  sufficiently  that  no  increased  risk  is  to  be  expected  from  the  impurities 
PD 0144550 and PD 0147804 at the maximum expected daily human dosage. 
Summary of salient findings 
• 
In  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys  CNS  effects  were  observed,  including 
hypoactivity, hyperactivity and ataxia. In rats an increased incidence of retinal atrophy was observed 
after long-term exposure.  
Pregabalin was not teratogenic in mice, rats or rabbits. Foetal toxicity in rats and rabbits occurred only 
at  exposures  sufficiently  above  human  exposure.  In  prenatal/postnatal  toxicity  studies,  pregabalin 
induced  offspring  developmental  toxicity  in  rats  at  exposures  >2  times  the  maximum  recommended 
human exposure. 
Pregabalin is not genotoxic based on results of a battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
In  mice,  no  increased  incidence  of  tumours  was  found  at  exposures  similar  to  the  mean  human 
exposure,  but  an  increased  incidence  of  haemangiosarcoma  was  observed  at  higher  exposures.  See 
discussion below. 
In  juvenile  rats,  at  therapeutic  exposures,  there  was  evidence  of  CNS  clinical  signs  of  hyperactivity 
and  bruxism  and  decreased  body  weight  gain.  Oestrous  cycle  effects  in  female  rats  occurred  at  ≥5 
times human  exposure. Neurobehavioural effects were also observed in juvenile rats. See discussion 
below. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In vitro studies show that pregabalin interacts with an auxiliary subunit (α2-δ protein) of voltage-gated 
calcium  channels  in  the  central  nervous  system.  Although  its  precise  mechanism  of  action  is  still 
unclear,  pregabalin  decreases  central  neuronal  excitability  by  binding  to  an  auxiliary  subunit  (α2-δ 
protein)  of  a  voltage-gated  calcium  channel  on  neurons  in  the  central  nervous  system.  In  addition, 
pregabalin  reduces  the  release  of  several  neurotransmitters,  including  glutamate,  noradrenaline,  and 
substance  P.  The  significance  of  these  effects  for  the  clinical  pharmacology  of  pregabalin  is  not 
known.  Pregabalin  is  well  absorbed,  widely  distributed,  undergoes  minimal  metabolism  with 
unchanged parent representing ≥90% of drug-derived material in urine (except in dog). No significant 
inhibition of major cytochrome CYP450 isoforms was observed. 
Pregabalin was shown to induce haemangiosarcoma in mice. An association between platelet and bone 
marrow  changes  and  increased  hemangiosarcoma  incidence  was  observed  at  carcinogenic  doses  of 
pregabalin.  Such  changes  were  not  seen  in  rats.  Given  the  role  of  bone  marrow  and  platelets  in 
endothelial homeostasis and the endothelial origin of haemangiosarcoma, the Applicant considered the 
exposure  of  endothelial  cells  to  elevated  levels  of  growth  factors  resulting  from  increased 
12/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
megakaryopoiesis  and  increased  activation  of  platelets  as  the  most  plausible  mode  of  action  of 
pregabalin-induced  stimulation  of  endothelial  cell  proliferation  in  mice,  a  species  predisposed  to 
developing hemangiosarcoma. The relationship between increases in platelet activation, bone marrow 
and splenic megakaryopoiesis, circulating and tissue levels of endothelial growth factors (PDGF and 
VEGF, respectively), endothelial cell proliferation, and incidence of haemangiosarcoma was shown in 
investigational studies in mice at carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic doses of pregabalin. The temporal 
relationship between these changes and increased endothelial cell proliferation and haemangiosarcoma 
formation is consistent with a causal association. The lack of similar changes in platelet activation and 
related  endothelial  proliferation  in  rats  and  monkeys  demonstrates  that  the  same  mechanism  is  not 
active  in  these  species.  Subsequent  studies  in  mice  showed  that  pregabalin-induced  respiratory 
depression resulted in increased plasma bicarbonate, pCO2, and blood pH (overcompensated relative 
metabolic  alkalosis).  Increased  pH  was  shown  to  increase  ADP-dependent  platelet  activation  and 
aggregation in vitro. Although similar changes in respiration, bicarbonate, and pCO2 were seen in rats, 
there  were  no  changes  in  pH  as  a  result  of  appropriate  compensation  and  therefore,  no  subsequent 
alterations in platelet function. Thus, the Applicant concludes that the alterations in platelet function in 
mice result from  disturbances in acid-base balance due to  pregabalin-induced  changes in respiratory 
function and overcompensation to these changes resulting in chronic relative metabolic alkalosis. 
Thus  far  there  are  no  clear  indications  that  increased  platelet  activation  and  the  related  sequelae 
leading to haemangiosarcoma formation occur when pregabalin is administered to humans. However, 
additional  long  term  human  data  may  be  needed  to  understand  if  increased  platelet  activation  by 
pregabalin  is  mild  in  humans  and  without  relevance.  Therefore  it  was  agreed  that  the  applicant  will 
provide additional long-term clinical data concerning assessment of platelet morphology, a surrogate 
marker of platelet activation, in humans receiving pregabalin. 
In view  of the pre-clinical toxicological finding of myocardial lesions in monkeys (at exposures  3-4 
times  the  therapeutic  exposure),  its  relevance  to  humans  was  initially  questioned.  Clinically,  no 
cardiac concerns were raised with pregabalin in terms of arrhythmias that might possibly be related to 
the pre-clinical finding. In addition, a subsequent 13-week chronic study with pregabalin in monkeys, 
with an elaborate follow-up of animals with regular ECG and echocardiography, did not show drug-
induced  arrhythmia’s  or  changes  in  blood  pressure.  No  echocardiographic  differences  were  found 
between pregabalin- and placebo-treated animals, except for an increased aortic diameter in males at 
>100 mg/kg pregabalin. Aortas were considered normal upon gross and microscopic examination, and 
consequently the increased diameter was not considered of significance. This was not associated with 
other concurrent echocardiographic, or blood pressure effects. As a consequence, follow-up of patients 
with echocardiography does not appear meaningful. 
There  were  some  effects  on  the  eyes  of  rats.  An  increased  incidence  of  retinal  atrophy  commonly 
observed in aged albino rats was seen after long term exposure to pregabalin at exposures 5 times the 
mean human exposure at the maximum recommended clinical dose. (See clinical part). 
Compared to adult rats, juvenile rats are similarly sensitive, notably with respect to CNS effects and 
decreased  body  weight  gain.  Female  and  male  reproductive  effects  occurred  at  ≥5  times  human 
exposure.  In  addition,  neurobehavioural/cognitive  effects  were  observed  in  juvenile  rats  1-2  weeks 
after the exposure period at exposures ≥5 times human exposure. The reversibility of these effects has 
not  been  studied.  In  view  of  further  pediatric  development,  it  may  therefore  be  questioned  whether 
monitoring in pediatric studies is sufficient. Upon CPMP’s request, the applicant agreed to conduct an 
additional  study  in  juvenile  rats  to  assess  reversibility  of  alterations  in  acoustic  startle  response  and 
impaired performance in learning and memory as a post-approval commitment. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The active substance of Lyrica is pregabalin, an analogue of the mammalian neurotransmitter gamma-
aminobutyric  acid  (GABA).  Lyrica  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in 
adults  and  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  adults  with  partial  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation. The dose range is 150 to 600 mg per day. 
The  clinical  programme  included  21  pharmacokinetic  studies,  3  pharmacodynamic  interactions 
studies. The clinical programme to support the claimed indications are described below. Other studies 
13/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
have  been  performed  to  investigate  the  effect  of  pregabalin  in  psychiatric  diseases  and  in  additional  
pain models. 
In  February  2001,  a  partial  clinical  hold  of  pregabalin  was  imposed  by  the  FDA  for  safety  reasons; 
increased incidence of haemangiosarcoma formation was reported in mice. Therefore several studies 
were terminated prematurely, or were amended with respect to the inclusion of patients. 
Neuropathic pain: 
Twelve randomised placebo controlled studies in neuropathy were submitted: 
- 
Six studies evaluated the efficacy in diabetic neuropathy (DPN-014, DPN-029, DPN-040, DPN-
131, DPN-149 and DPN-173), 
Five studies (PHN-030, PHN-045, PHN-127, PHN-132 and -196) were performed in 
postherpetic neuropathy, 
One study in both diabetic and post herpetic neuropathy (Study 155). 
- 
- 
Studies  DPN-173  and  PHN-132  were  terminated  prematurely  due  to  the  report  of  increased 
haemangiosarcoma formation in mice; almost none of the patients completed the study. 
There were several extension studies (open label, long term studies) which enrolled patients from the 
DPN  studies,  PHN  studies  or  studies  investigating  the  efficacy  of  pregabalin  in  other  (non-
neuropathic) chronic pain states. 
Epilepsy: 
For  efficacy  in  patients  with  refractory  partial  seizures  3  controlled  (009,  011,  034),  and  4 
uncontrolled (008, 010, 012, 035) studies were submitted. Additionally, a proof of concept study (007) 
was performed and a controlled titration study (145) was terminated prematurely due to the report of 
increased hemangiosarcoma formation in mice. These two studies were not considered pivotal, but to 
provide additional information.  
It is stated in the Applicant’s clinical overview that the trials were conducted in accordance with "good 
clinical practice" (GCP). 
Pharmacokinetics 
To support the application of Lyrica, the following pharmacokinetic studies were submitted: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3 single dose studies (1008-001, - 002, -005), 
2 multiple dose studies (1008-002, -023), 
2 studies in patients with an impaired renal function (studies 1008-049, -121), 
7 interaction studies (1008-018/126, -019, -020, -075, -140, -077, -144), 
3 pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic interaction studies (1008-076, -078, -079), 
2 bioequivalence/bioavailability studies (1008-003, -128), 
2 single dose studies conducted in Japan (studies 1008-1J, -2J) 
In all studies, healthy volunteers were included, except for study 1008-018/126, -019, -020, and –140, 
which included epileptic patients.   
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  pregabalin 
is  straightforward  and  uncomplicated.  The  absolute 
bioavailability is estimated to be more than 90%. Pregabalin AUC and Cmax values increased linearly 
with dose after single dose administration over the dose range of 1 – 300 mg and after multiple dose 
administration  over  the  dose  range  of  25  –  300  mg  q8h  and  at  300  mg  q12h.  Peak  plasma 
concentrations were reached 0.5 – 1.5 h after administration. Steady state was achieved within 2 days, 
and  no  unexpected  accumulation  occurred.  In  line  with  the  linear  pharmacokinetics,  the  total  daily 
exposure  is  similar  whether  the  total  daily  dose  was  divided  q12h  or  q8h,  with  almost  comparable 
Cmax values, but with around 20% lower trough levels for the q12h treatment.  
Bioequivalence 
• 
The  capsule  formulations  used  in  the  clinical  trial  program  are  comparable:  identical  excipients  are 
used,  although  not  in  the  same  quantity.  In  addition,  the  to  be  marketed  capsule  formulations  are 
similar to the formulations used in the clinical trial program. No bioequivalence studies are submitted 
to compare the different formulations used. Instead a biowaiver was requested, taking into account the 
criteria  mentioned  in  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  investigation  of  Bioavailability  and 
14/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Bioequivalence. Pregabalin can be considered highly soluble and rapidly dissolving at the pH 1.2, 4.5 
and 6.8, and is highly permeable. The excipients used were lactose monohydrate, corn starch and talc 
and are well known, and considered not critical with regard to dissolution, solubility and absorption. 
In  addition,  pregabalin  is  rapidly  absorbed,  the  pharmacokinetics  are  linear  over  the  intended  dose 
range after single dose as well as after multiple dose, and pregabalin is not hepatically metabolised and 
renally excreted almost completely as intact drug. Taking into account these data, pregabalin can be 
considered to fulfil the criteria for applying a biowaiver as mentioned in the guidance, and the waiver 
from performing in vivo bioavailability-/bioequivalence studies on pregabalin has been granted. 
Distribution 
• 
In vitro protein binding studies using human plasma indicate that pregabalin does not bind to plasma 
protein at clinically relevant plasma concentrations of 0.1 – 20 µg/ml. The volume of distribution was 
estimated to be about 0.56 l/kg (about 42 l), similar to that of total body water. 
• 
In  vitro  studies  using  human  liver  cytosolic  and  microsomal  preparations  indicate  that  pregabalin  is 
not (or negligibly) metabolised. In vivo, renal clearance covered 88% of the total clearance, which was 
indicated  by  the  excretion  of  more  than  90%  of  the  dose  as  intact  pregabalin  in  the  urine.  The 
elimination half-life of about 6.3 h was independent of dose and not affected by repeat administration. 
The total body clearance is about 80 ml/min. 
Metabolism and excretion 
Special populations 
• 
Pharmacokinetics  in  patients  on  concurrent  anti-epileptic  therapy  were  comparable  with  the 
pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. 
As  can  be  expected  from  a  product  that  is  completely  intact  excreted  in  urine,  an  impaired  renal 
function results in a lower elimination of pregabalin from the body resulting in an increased exposure. 
Therefore  a  dose  reduction  is  proposed,  based  upon  the  relationship  between  the  patients  creatinine 
clearance and pregabalin plasma clearance. During haemodialysis, pregabalin is adequately eliminated 
from  the  body.  To  compensate  for  this  loss  of  drug,  an  additional  dose  should  be  given  after 
haemodialysis. 
With  regard  to  male  and  female  patients,  the  elderly  and  patients  with  an  impaired  liver  function 
(which  have  not  been  specifically  studied)  the  pharmacokinetics  have  not  been  seen  to  be,  nor  are 
expected to be, clinically significantly altered in these patient groups. 
Interaction studies 
• 
The in vitro and in vivo metabolism studies indicate that pregabalin is not a substrate for cytochrome 
P450  isozymes,  does  not  inhibit  cytochrome  P450  isozymes  and  does  not  bind  to  plasma  proteins. 
Pregabalin pharmacokinetics were not clinically significantly affected by concomitant treatment with 
sodium  valproate,  carbamazepine,  lamotrigine,  ethinyl  estradiol/  norethindrone,  gabapentin,  ethanol, 
phenytoin, lorazepam and oxycodone. In addition, pregabalin did not clinically significantly affect the 
pharmacokinetics of these drugs. 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  indicated  that  the  3  commonly  used  drug  classes,  oral 
the  7  most  commonly  used  anti-epileptic  drugs, 
antidiabetics,  diuretics  and 
carbamazepine,  lamotrignine,  phenobarbital,  phenytoin,  tiagabine,  topiramate  and  valproate,  had  no 
clinically significant effect on pregabalin clearance. 
insulin,  and 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
• 
Although  its  precise  mechanism  of  action  is  still  unclear,  pregabalin  decreases  central  neuronal 
excitability  by  binding  to  an  auxiliary  subunit  (α2-δ  protein)  of  a  voltage-gated  calcium  channel  on 
neurons  in  the  central  nervous  system.  In  addition,  pregabalin  reduces  the  release  of  several 
neurotransmitters,  including  glutamate,  noradrenaline,  and  substance  P.  The  significance  of  these 
effects for the clinical pharmacology of pregabalin is not known. 
There is no specific human pharmacodynamic model for studying anti-epileptic products. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
• 
Three studies were submitted, in which the pharmacodynamic interaction of pregabalin was studied in 
healthy  volunteers  in  relation  to  other  drugs  that  interfere  with  the  central  nervous  system,  i.e. 
15/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
lorazepam  (076),  oxycodone  (078),  and  ethanol  (079).  Their  effect  was  studied  at  the  level  of  the 
respiratory system  and CNS function.  No  overall  mean  data were presented in the  dossier, therefore 
the results are of descriptive nature only. In none of the studies an effect was observed with respect to 
respiratory suppression, nor was there any correlation between plasma levels of the tested drugs and 
their effects on cognition. 
Lorazepam  and  pregabalin  produced  consistent  impairments  in  cognitive  performance  (mainly 
reaction time and alertness). Their combination potentiated these effects.  
The  opiate  oxycodone  administered  by  itself  resulted  in  few  decrements  of  task  performance. 
Pregabalin  alone  impaired  cognitive  function  (mainly  reaction  time).  When  administered  in 
combination,  the  detrimental  effects  on  cognition  and  motor  performance  appeared  additive  rather 
than synergistic. 
Cognitive function (mainly reaction time) was affected by ethanol alone, but not by pregabalin alone. 
The combination, however, showed a potentiation of pregabalin on the alcohol related impairment of 
cognitive and gross motor function.  
From these limited number of  pharmacodynamic studies no conclusion  can be drawn with regard to 
the impact of pregabalin on cognition. 
Clinical efficacy  
Dose response study(ies) 
• 
The  selection  of  doses  (150-600  mg/day  of  pregabalin)  for  the  different  studies  was  based  on 
pharmacokinetic, safety and tolerability data for pregabalin in healthy volunteers (001, 002, 003, and 
023),  while  taking  into  consideration  the  relative  potencies  of  pregabalin  and  gabapentin  in  animal 
seizure  models  and  the  dose/plasma  concentrations  achieved  in  humans.  Hence,  no  formal  Phase  2 
dose finding studies in patients were conducted. 
• 
Main studies  
Peripheral Neuropathy 
Twelve  randomised  placebo  controlled  studies  in  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  were  submitted.  Six 
studies  concerned  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathy,  five  postherpetic  neuralgia  and  one  both  diabetic 
peripheral  neuropathy  and  postherpetic  neuralgia.  Studies  DPN-173  and  PHN-132  were  terminated 
prematurely. 
The table below presents main features of the pivotal studies in neuropathy. 
DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY  
DPN-014 
USA  
1998-1999 
DPN-029 
USA  
1998-1999 
Design  
RD Db Plac PA  
Db: 2 + 4 weeksa 
Baseline: 1 week 
RD Db Plac PA  
Db: 1 + 4  weeksa 
Baseline: 1 week 
DPN-040 
EU/S-Africa 
/Australia  
1999-2000 
DPN-131  
USA  
1999-2000 
RD Db Plac Amit. 
PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 2 + 6  weeksa 
RD Db Plac. PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 0 + 8 weeks  
Study arms  
[TID] 
Placebo 
Pregabalin  150 mg   
Pregabalin  600 mg 
[TID] 
Placebo 
Pregabalin    75 mg   
Pregabalin  150 mg 
Pregabalin  600 mg 
[TID] 
Placebo  
Pregabalin  600 mg   
Amitriptyline 75 mg       
[TID] 
Placebo  
Pregabalin  300 mg   
Assessment  
Primary:     Endpoint mean painscore 
Secondary: SF-MPQ , Sleepscore, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, POMS  
Primary:      Endpoint mean painscore 
Secondary: SF-MPQ , Sleepscore, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, POMS 
Primary:     Endpoint mean painscore 
Secondary: SF-MPQ , Sleepscore, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, HADS   
Primary:     Endpoint mean painscore 
Secondary SF-MPQ , Sleepscore, CGIC, PGIC, 
SF-36 QoL , POMS 
16/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIABETIC PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY  
DPN-149     
EU S-Africa 
Australia 
2000-2002 
DPN-173   
USA 
2000-2001 
Design  
RD Db Plac. PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 1 + 11 weeksa  
RD Db Plac. PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 1 + 11 weeksa 
stopped prematurely 
POSTHERPETIC NEURALGIA  
Design  
Rd Db Plac PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 5 weeks  
PHN-030 
USA 
1998-1999 
PHN-045 
EU/AU  
1999-2000 
Rd Db Plac PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 1 +7 weeksa 
PHN-127 
USA/Can.  
1999-2000 
Rd Db Plac PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db 1+ 7 weeksa 
PHN-132 
USA  
2000-2001 
Rd Db Plac PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 1+11 weeksa  
stopped prematurely 
PHN-196 
EU/Australia  
2001-2002 
Rd Db Plac. PA  
Baseline: 1 week 
Db: 1 week titration 
and 12 weeks 
maintenance 
Study arms  
[BID] 
Placebo 
Pregabalin  150 mg 
Pregabalin  300 mg   
Pregabalin  300/600 mg 
[BID] 
Placebo 
Pregabalin  150 mg 
Pregabalin  300 mg   
Pregabalin  300/600 mg 
Study arms  
[TID] 
Placebo  
Pregabalin    75 mg  
Pregabalin  150 mg 
[TID] 
Placebo                      
Pregabalin   150 mg 
Pregabalin   300 mg 
[TID] 
Placebo                      
Pregabalin 300/600 mg 
[BID] 
Placebo                       
Pregabalin 150           
Pregabalin 300        
Pregabalin 300/600 mg 
[BID] 
Placebo  
Pregabalin  150 mg  
Pregabalin  300 mg  
Pregabalin  300/600mg 
Diabetic Neuropathy and Postherpetic Neuralgia 
Study 155 
EU  
2001-2002 
Rd Db Plac. PA  
Baseline:  1 week 
Db:    Titr. / Maint.  
- Flexible dose;  
1-3 / 9-11 weeks 
- Fixed dose:  1/11 w. 
- Placebo ; 0/12 w. 
[BID] 
Placebo  
Flexible dose arm  
150-600 mg/day  
Fixed dose arm                
600 mg/day   
Assessment  
Primary:     Endpoint mean painscore 
Secondary: SF-MPQ, Sleep score, CGIC,  
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, MOS ,EurQoL  
Primary:     Endpoint mean pain score 
Secondary: SF-MPQ, Sleep score, MOS, 
CGIC,  PGIC, SF-36 QoL, EurQoL 
Assessment  
Primary:     Endpoint mean painscore 
 Secondary: SF-MPQ, Sleep score, CGIC, 
                    PGIC, SF-36 QoL, POMS  
Primary:  Endpoint mean pain score  
Secondary:  SF-MPQ ,Sleep score, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, ZUNG 
Primary: Endpoint mean pain score  
Secondary: SF-MPQ, Sleep score, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, MOS , POMS 
Primary: Endpoint mean pain score  
Secondary: SF-MPQ, Sleep score, CGIC, 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL, MOS, EurQoL 
Primary:  Endpoint mean pain score  
Secondary: SF-MPQ , Sleep scores,  CGIC 
PGIC, SF-36 QoL MOS, EuroQoL 
Primary:  Endpoint mean pain score  
Secondary:  SF-MPQ ,  Sleep scores, MOS,  
PGIC, SF-36 QoL 
a Db: 2 + 4 weeks  indicates 2 week titration, 4 weeks fixed dose. 
Legend:  BID:  Twice  a  day,  CGIC:  Clinician’s  Global  Impression  of  Change,  Db:  Double-blind, 
DPN:  Diabetic  Peripheral  Neuropathy,  EurQoL:  European  Quality  of  life  Questionnaire,  HADS: 
Hospital  Anxiety  and  Depression  Scale,  MOS:  Medical  Outcome  Sleep  scale,  PA:  Parallel,  PHN: 
Post  Herpetic  Neuralgia,  Plac:  Placebo,  PGIC:  Patient’s  Global  Impression  of  Change,  POMS: 
Profile of  Mood States, Rd: Randomised, SF-MPQ: Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire, SF-36 
QoL: SF-36 Health Survey, TID: Three times daily. 
In all studies the primary aim was to evaluate the efficacy of pregabalin on the neuropathic pain versus 
placebo. The clinical studies in peripheral neuropathic pain were fairly similar. Each study consisted 
of two phases. Baseline was a one week phase during which patients were screened for eligibility to 
enter  the  double-blind  phase.  The  subsequent  double-blind  phase  encompassed  a  titration  period  of 
0 to  2 weeks  followed  by  a  fixed-dose  period  (4 to  12 weeks).  Outcome  scales  and  the  statistical 
analyses  of  these  studies  were  almost  identical.  The  main  differences  concerned  the  dosage  and 
duration  of  double-blind  period  (from  5-13  weeks).  In  study  DPN  040  an  amitriptyline  arm  was 
incorporated as a positive control. Study 155 includes both DPN and PHN and a flexible dose arm. 
17/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Participants  
The  diagnosis  of  polyneuropathy  was  based  on  the  neurological  history  and  examination.  The  main 
inclusion and exclusion criteria for the diabetic neuropathy were a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus with 
a painful distal, symmetrical, sensorimotor polyneuropathy for at least 1 year (with an upper limit of 5 
years in studies 14, 29 and 131) and HbA1C level ≤11%. Patients were required to have a score of > 40 
mm  on  the  VAS  (visual  analogue  pain  scale)  of  SF-MPQ  at  screening  and  randomisation;  and  an 
average daily pain score of >4 points over the baseline phase. Additional inclusion/exclusion criteria 
included the absence of other conditions that might explain the polyneuropathy; mononeuropathy; the 
absence  of  other  pain  syndromes  and  the  use  of  concurrent  medication  that  may  affect  the 
assessments. Antidiabetic medication should be stable and constant during the study. 
In the postherpetic neuralgia studies patients suffered from pain for more than 3 months, (more than 6 
months for PHN-040) after healing of the herpes zoster skin rash. The main inclusion and exclusion 
criteria  were,  a  score  of  >  40  mm  VAS  of  SF-MPQ  at  screening  and  randomisation  and  an  average 
daily pain score of ≥ 4 points over the baseline phase. 
Treatments 
In most studies pregabalin was titrated to the fixed doses over 1-2 weeks. The daily pregabalin dose 
ranged from 75 to 600 mg daily divided over three or two doses. In studies DPN-149, DPN-173, PHN-
127,  PHN-132  and  PHN-196  randomisation  was  stratified  according  creatinine  clearance  status. 
Patients  randomised  to  the  300/600  mg/day  arm  received  a  dose  of  300  mg/day  if  their  estimated 
creatinine  clearance  (CLcr)  was  30  to  60  mL/min,  or  a  dose  of  600  mg/day  if  their  CLcr  was  >60 
mL/min. The 300 mg dose in patients with a low creatinine clearance was considered equivalent to a 
dose  of  600  mg  in  patients  with  a  normal  renal  function.  Hence,  this  study  arm  referred  to  as  the 
300/600 mg arm. Originally, pregabalin was developed with a three times daily (TID) regimen, later a 
two  times  daily  (BID)  programme  was  considered  based  on  the  similarity  of  the  BID  and  TID 
pharmacokinetic profiles and to increase compliance. 
In study 155, there were  3 arms  besides the placebo  arm, there was a  flexible dose arm and a fixed 
dose arm. Patients in the flexible dose arm received escalating doses of pregabalin 150-300-450-600 
mg/day titrated at weekly dose intervals. Based upon patient’s response the dose was increased or kept 
stable. If intolerance occurred, a single dose reduction to the previous level was allowed. Patients in 
the fixed dose arm started with pregabalin 300 mg which was increased to 600 mg daily the second 
week. The daily doses were given in a BID regime. 
Antidepressants were allowed as a co-medication in pain studies if the medication was stable for 30 
days  prior  to  study  start..  Aspirin  was  allowed  for  prevention  of  myocardial  infarction  and/or  TIA 
(transient ischemic attack). In some studies lorazepam was allowed as a hypnotic. The agents should 
have  been  used  before  study  start  and  kept  stable  for  the  duration  of  the  study.  Paracetamol  was 
allowed in all studies up to 3-4 gram daily on an “as needed” basis. 
In the studies in diabetic neuropathy the anti-diabetic medication had to remain stable throughout the 
course of the studies. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  assessment  was  based  upon  an  11  point  Numerical  Rating  Pain  Scale  with  0  =  no 
pain and 10 = worst possible pain. The pain was assessed by the patient in their daily pain score diary. 
The  patients  scored  their  pain  during  the  last  24  hours  at  awakening.  The  primary  endpoint  in  all 
studies was the weekly mean pain score at endpoint (=endpoint mean score) defined as the mean pain 
score for the last 7 available pain diary entries while on study medication. Responder rates defined as 
a 50% reduction in pain score as compared to baseline were part of a secondary analysis. 
Numerous secondary efficacy measurement scales  were used. Almost all studies included the Short-
Form  McGill  Pain  Questionnaire  (SF-MPQ),  a  Sleep  interference  scale,  the  global  impression  of 
change by clinician (CGIC), the global impression of change by patient (PGIC), the SF-36 Quality of 
life  Questionnaire  and  a  mood  assessment  (profile  of  mood  states  [POMS],  Hospital  anxiety  and 
depression scale [HADS] or Zung).  
Statistical methods 
In all  studies, except  study  DPN-149,  the  primary  analysis  concerned the ITT  population  defined as 
subject randomised receiving at least one medication. In study DPN-149 the primary dataset was the 
modified ITT population defined as all randomised patients with at least one study medication and not 
18/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
withdrawn as a result of regulatory agency or ethic committee decisions (11 patients less than the ITT 
population).  For  non-completers  the  last  observation  was  carried  forward.  Primary  comparisons 
concerned  the  effect  of  each  pregabalin  group  versus  placebo.  The  endpoint  mean  pain  score  was 
analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) using the baseline mean score as the covariate, in 
order to adjust for differences in baseline pain score among the treatment groups. 
The  number  of  patients  per  treatment  group  was  determined  assuming  2-sided  testing  to  give  >90% 
power  to  detect  a  difference  in  endpoint  mean  pain  scores ≥1.3  between  at  least  1  pregabalin  group 
and  placebo.  The  difference  in  endpoint  mean  pain  score  of  1.3  was  based  on  published  studies  in 
DPN and PHN. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow and Baseline data 
Drop out rates across the treatment groups for all combined studies ranged from 9% to 23%. 
In the diabetic neuropathy studies 6.1%, 5.2%, 4.5%, 2.6% and 3% of the subjects withdrew due to 
lack of efficacy for placebo, pregabalin 75mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg respectively. Withdrawal 
rates due to adverse events were 3.7%, 2.6%, 3.9%, 9.7% and 10.9% respectively. 
In the postherpetic neuralgia studies (except study 196 which results were available later) 5.9%, 0.0%, 
0.0%, 0.9% and 0.0% of the subjects withdrew due to lack of efficacy for placebo, pregabalin 75mg, 
150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg respectively. Withdrawal rates due to adverse events were 7.1%, 2.4%, 
8.5, 21.7% and 28.8% respectively. 
The following table provide the numbers of patients randomised, numbers of completers and reasons 
for withdrawal (LOE= lack of efficacy, AE=adverse event), for each study. 
19/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Diabetic neuropathy 
DPN 014 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LO / AE/ other 
DPN 029 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
DPN 040 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
DPN 131 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
DPN 149 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
DPN 173 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
Postherpetic neuropathy 
PHN-030  
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
PHN-045  
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
PHN-127  
Placebo 
85 
72  (15%) 
1/4/8 
Placebo 
97 
89 (8.2%) 
2/3/3 
Placebo 
81 
62 (24%) 
9/4/6 
Placebo 
70 
62 (11%) 
3/2/3 
Placebo 
97 
79 (18%) 
11/3/3 
Placebo 
31 
  1 (97%) 
  1/1/27 
Placebo 
88 
79 (10%) 
2/6/1 
Placebo 
81 
61 (25%) 
7/8/5 
Placebo 
82 
70 (15%) 
0/10/2 
Pregabalin 600 
82 
72 (12.2%) 
1/7/2 
Pregabalin 300  Pregabalin 600 
82 
76  (6.2%) 
0/3/2 
Pregabalin 150 
79 
75  (5.1%) 
0/2/2 
Pregabalin 75 
77 
67 (13%) 
4/2/4 
Pregabalin 600  Amitriptyline 75   
88 
87 
64 (26%) 
62 (28%) 
7/11/6 
3/16/4 
Pregabalin 300 
76 
65 (15%) 
1/8/2 
Pregabalin 150  Pregabalin 300  Pregabalin300/600 
99 
82 (17%) 
8/5/4 
Pregabalin 150  Pregabalin 300  Pregabalin 300/600 
34 
  2 (94%) 
  1/2/29 
45 
  2 (96%) 
  2/2/37 
40 
  2 (95%) 
  1/9/27 
99 
79 (20%) 
5/11/4 
101 
78 (23%) 
3/13/7 
Pregabalin 150 
84 
76 (8%) 
0/5/2 
Pregabalin 75 
84 
79 (6%) 
0/2/3 
Pregabalin 150  Pregabalin 300 
81 
71 (12%) 
0/9/1 
76 
60 (21%) 
  1/12/3 
Pregabalin 
300/600 
89 
58 (35%) 
0/28/3 
84 
74 (12%) 
6/4/0 
Placebo 
53 
  0 (100%) 
4/3/45 
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
PHN-132  
nlrandomised 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ other 
PHN-196 
nlrandomised / nITT 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 N Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ / other 
Diabetic Neuropathy and Postherpetic Neuralgia 
Study – 155 
nlrandomised / nITT 
ncompleted (% Withdrawn) 
 n Wthdraw    LOE / AE/ / other 
Placebo 
65/64 
35  (46%%) 
19/5/6 
Placebo  
94/93 
59 (37%) 
22/5/7 
Pregabalin 150  Pregabalin 300  Pregabalin 300/600 
51 
  0 (100%) 
2/8/40 
51 
 0 (100%) 
0/12/39 
62 
2 (97%) 
0/6/54 
PGB150 
87/87 
61 (30%) 
16/7/3 
PGB300 
98/98 
62 (37%) 
13/15/8 
PGB300/600 
91/90 
60 (30%) 
6/19/5 
Flexible dose 
141/140 
92  (35%) 
12/24/13 
Fixed dose 
132/132 
82 (38%) 
11/33/6 
Treatment  groups  were  similar  with  respect  to  demographic  characteristics  including  age  and  sex. 
Within  the  diabetic  neuropathy  studies  the  treatment  groups  had  a  similar  duration  of  diabetes, 
haemoglobin  A1c  levels  and  baseline  pain  score.  Within  the  postherpetic  neuralgia  population,  the 
duration  of  the  disease  in  the  treatment  groups  were  comparable.  The  high  age  of  the  postherpetic 
neuralgia population is in accordance with what is expected.  
The age distribution, duration of diabetes, type of diabetes and duration of postherpetic neuralgia are 
presented in the following table for each study. 
20/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diabetic neuropathy 
DPN 014 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type I 
DM type II 
DPN 029 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type I 
DM type II 
DPN 040 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type I 
DM type II 
DPN 131 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type  I 
DM type  II 
DPN 149 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type  I 
DM type  II 
DPN 173 
Age (mean, sd) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
DM type  I 
DM type  II 
Postherpetic neuropathy 
PHN-030  
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of  PHN  (median, range) 
PHN-045  
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of  PHN  (median, range) 
PHN-127  
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of  PHN  (median, range) 
PHN-132  
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of  PHN  (median, range) 
Plac 
57.1 (10.3) 
9 (1-34) 
16.5% 
83.5% 
Plac 
57.8 (11.6) 
8 (0-52) 
14.4% 
85.6% 
Plac 
60.6 (11.5) 
11 (0-45) 
12.3% 
87.7% 
Plac 
60.3 (10.3) 
5.5 (0-44) 
10% 
90% 
Plac 
58.8 (11.8) 
11 (1-40) 
14% 
86% 
Plac 
62 (12.0) 
8.5 (1-34) 
10% 
90% 
Plac 
71.3  (9.3) 
20  (2-189) 
Plac 
73.2 (10.3) 
32 (0-267) 
Plac 
70.5 (11.3) 
18.5 (3-151) 
Plac 
71.5 (9.1) 
13 (3-104) 
PGB150 
56.3 (9.4) 
4 (0-40) 
8.9% 
91.1% 
PGB75 
61.3 (10.5) 
7 (1-34) 
7.8% 
92.2% 
PGB600 
62.0 (9.4) 
10.5 (1-36) 
12.8% 
87.2% 
PGB300 
59.2 (12.3) 
6 (1-62) 
15.8% 
84.2% 
PGB150 
58.5 (12.6) 
12 (0-42) 
14% 
86% 
PGB150 
62.8 (10.6) 
10 (1-40) 
18% 
82% 
PGB75 
72.9  (8.0) 
22 (2-159) 
PGB150 
71.3 10.1 
29 (5-243) 
PGB150 
71.5 (11.2) 
27 (3-204) 
PGB600 
57.8 (9.5) 
6.5 (1-43) 
2.4% 
97.6% 
PGB600 
62.0 (9.7) 
6.5 (0-32) 
7.3% 
92.7% 
PGB300 
59.0 (92) 
7 (0-48) 
6.2% 
93.8% 
Amitryp75 
57.8 (12.0) 
9 (0-34) 
17.2% 
82.8% 
PGB300 
57.6 (10.5) 
12.5 (1-34) 
16% 
84% 
PGB300 
58.6 (11.5) 
10 (1-49) 
18% 
82% 
PGB300/600 
59.5 (11.4) 
11 (1-38) 
14% 
86% 
PGB300/600 
64.0 (11.7) 
10 (1-44) 
5% 
95% 
PGB150 
70.4 (10.3) 
22-(2 –223) 
PGB300 
71.9 10.3 
30.5 (1-215) 
PGB300/600 
72.4 (10.5) 
21 (3-187) 
PGB300 
71.9 (13.6) 
22.5 (3-161) 
PGB300/600 
70.6 (11.8) 
18 (3-218) 
PHN -196  
Plac 
PGB150 
PGB300 
PGB300/600 
70.9 (10.4) 
31 (2-263) 
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of PHN (median, range)  
Diabetic Neuropathy and Postherpetic Neuralgia 
STUDY 1008-155  
Age (mean, sd) 
Months of PHN (median , range) 
Years of DM (median, range) 
PLACEBO 
61.7 (12.6) 
26.4  (3.6-106) 
11.5 (1.7-35.8) 
70.5 (9.3) 
22 (2-224) 
70.7 (11.9) 
29 (3-262) 
70.7 (10.6) 
22.5 (2-180) 
FLEXIBLE DOSE 
62.7 (10.6) 
13.8 (3.7-245) 
10.4 (0.2-37.7) 
Fixed dose 
61.8 (11.0) 
26.8 (3.2-126) 
11.4 (0.8-45.7) 
Outcomes and estimation 
The following table provide the results of the primary outcome: Endpoint mean pain scores - Analysis 
of covariance- ITT population. 
21/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/Treatment Group 
N  Mean 
Baselinea 
Least Squares 
Mean 
endpointb 
SE 
DPN Pain Model 
Study 014 [TID,  6 weeks]    
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 600 mg/day 
Study 029 [TID 5 weeks]  
Placebo 
PGB 75 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 600 mg/day 
Study 040 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 600 mg/day 
AMT 75 mg/day 
Study 131 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 300 mg/day 
Study 149 [BID 12 weeks]d   
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayc 
Study 173 [BID xx weeks]e 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayf 
82  6.9 
79  6.5 
82  6.7 
97  6.6 
77  6.7 
81  6.2 
81  6.2 
80  6.3 
86  6.9 
87  6.4 
69  6.1 
75  6.5 
93  6.4 
96  6.2 
96  6.4 
98  6.6 
29  6.3 
34  6.3 
43  6.8 
38  6.7 
PHN Pain Model 
Study 030 [TID 5 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 75 mg/day 
PGB 150 mg/day 
Study 045 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
Study 127 [TID 8 weeks ] 
Placebo 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayf 
Study 132 [BID xx weeks]e 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayf 
Study 196 [BID 13 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayf 
87  6.6 
83  6.7 
82  6.4 
81  6.6 
81  6.9 
76  7.0 
84  6.4 
88  6.3 
52  6.0 
51  6.9 
62  6.6 
50  6.6 
93  6.9 
87  6.4 
98  6.7 
88  6.7 
Mixed study 
Study 155 [BID 12 weeks] 
Placebo 
62  6.5 
PGB 150-600 /day flexible   139  6.8 
128  6.8 
PGB 600 mg/day fixed 
Study 155: PHN group  
Placebo 
16  6.55 
PGB 150-600 /day flexible   36  7.04 
  Treatment Comparisons 
  Difference  95% CI 
  (Pregabalin  Placebo) 
Adjusted 
p-valuec 
  -0.44 
  -1.26 
(-1.08, 0.20) 
(-1.89, -0.64) 
0.1763 
0.0002 
  -0.15 
  -1.26 
  -1.45 
(-0.76, 0.46) 
(-1.86, -0.65) 
(-2.06, -0.85) 
0.6267 
0.0001 
0.0001 
  -0.64 
  -0.93 
(-1.37, 0.08) 
(-1.65, -0.22) 
0.0822 
0.0110 
  -1.47 
(-2.19, -0.75) 
0.0001 
  -0.33 
  -0.18 
  -0.97 
  -0.55 
  -0.34 
  -1.24 
(-0.94, 0.28) 
(-0.79, 0.43) 
(-1.58, -0.36) 
0.5580 
0.5580 
0.0054 
(-1.54, 0.43) 
(-1.29, 0.61) 
(-2.21, -0.27) 
0.4795 
0.4795 
0.0375 
  -0.14 
  -0.07 
(-0.71, 0.43) 
(-0.64, 0.50) 
0.7999 
0.7999 
  -1.20 
  -1.57 
(-1.81, -0.58) 
(-2.20, -0.95) 
0.0002 
0.0002 
  -1.69 
(-2.33, -1.05) 
0.0001 
  -1.18 
  -1.33 
  -2.02 
  -0.88 
  -1.07 
  -1.79 
(-1.90, -0.46) 
(-2.01, -0.65) 
(-2.74, -1.31) 
0.0015 
0.0004 
0.0003 
(-1.53, -0.23) 
(-1.70, -0.45) 
(-2.43, -1.15) 
0.008 
0.002 
0.0003 
  -1.17 
  -1.38 
(-1.90, -0.45) 
(-2.11, -0.65) 
0.002 
< 0.001 
5.55 
5.11 
4.29 
5.06 
4.91 
3.80 
3.60 
4.60 
3.96 
3.67 
5.46 
3.99 
4.66 
4.33 
4.48 
3.69 
5.33 
4.77 
4.99 
4.09 
5.59 
5.46 
5.52 
6.33 
5.14 
4.76 
5.29 
3.60 
6.23 
5.05 
4.90 
4.26 
6.14 
5.26 
5.07 
4.35 
4.98 
3.81 
3.60 
0.23 
0.24 
0.23 
0.21 
0.24 
0.23 
0.23 
0.26 
0.26 
0.25 
0.28 
0.26 
0.26 
0.26 
0.26 
0.25 
0.39 
0.36 
0.34 
0.35 
0.21 
0.21 
0.22 
0.22 
0.22 
0.23 
0.24 
0.24 
0.26 
0.26 
0.24 
0.26 
0.23 
0.24 
0.23 
0.24 
0.32 
0.23 
0.24 
Endpoint score 
5.08 
3.88 
22/42         
Not formally analysed 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/Treatment Group 
PGB 600 mg/day fixed 
34  7.03 
N  Mean 
Baselinea 
Least Squares 
Mean 
endpointb 
3.64 
SE 
  Treatment Comparisons 
  Difference  95% CI 
Adjusted 
p-valuec 
Study 155: DPN group 
Placebo 
46  6.55 
PGB 150-600 /day flexible   103  6.67 
94  6.67 
PGB 600 mg/day fixed 
DPN=  diabetic  neuropathy,  PHN=  postherpetic  neuralgia,  SE = Standard  Error;  CI = Confidence  Interval; 
PGB = Pregabalin; AMT = Amitriptyline. 
Endpoint score 
4.86 
3.73 
3.55 
Not formally analysed 
a  The baseline score was the mean of last 7 available scores before taking study medication. 
b   The mean endpoint score was the mean of the last 7 available scores on study medication, or mean of available 
scores. 
c   The endpoint score were adjusted for treatment and centre (cluster) and baseline score.   
      The  p-value  is  adjusted  by  the  Hochberg  procedure  for  multiple  comparisons  between  treatment  arms  if 
d 
applicable.   
In  study  DPN149  the  data  set  analysed  concerned  the  modified  ITT  population  defined  as  all  randomised 
patients  with  an  at  least  one  study  medication  and  not  withdrawn  as  a  result  of  regulatory  or  ethic  committee 
decisions.  
e   xx  weeks  indicates  that  the  study  was  stopped  prematurely.  In  study  173  the  median  exposure  time  was  2-3 
weeks and  75% of the subjects received pregabalin for  less than 5 weeks., in study 132 the median exposure 
time was less than 3 weeks, 75% of the subjects received pregabalin for  less than 7 weeks.  
f  Patients randomised to the 300/600 mg/day pregabalin group received either 300 or 600 mg/day based on their 
CLcr.   
Pregabalin appears to be efficacious in reducing pain in a polyneuropathy pain model (DPN) as well 
as in mononeuropathy pain model (PHN). A statistically significant difference in mean endpoint score 
between pregabalin and placebo is observed for the 300 mg and 600 mg doses. The mean differences 
in pain score between placebo and pregabalin ranged from -0.18 to -1.57 for the 300  mg daily dose 
and -0.64 to -2.02 points for the 600 mg daily dose. Results are less consistent with pregabalin 150 mg 
daily and 75 mg daily is not effective. 
The  overall  picture  of  the  primary  efficacy  variable  is  confirmed  in  the  responder  analysis  (50% 
reduction in pain score as compared to baseline values), and the results are presented in the following 
table. 
23/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responders analysis  
Study/Treatment Group 
DPN Pain Model 
Study 014 [TID,  6 weeks]  
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 600 mg/day 
Study 029 [TID 5 weeks]  
Placebo 
PGB 75 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 600 mg/day 
Study 040 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 600 mg/day 
AMT 75 mg/day 
Study 131 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 300 mg/day 
Study 149 [BID 12 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/dayc 
Study 173 [BID xx weeks]d 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/day 
PHN Pain Model 
Study 030 [TID 5 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 75 mg/day 
PGB 150 mg/day 
Study 045 [TID 8 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
Study 127 [TID 8 weeks ] 
Placebo 
PGB 300/600 mg/day 
Study 132 [BID xx weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/day 
Study 196 [BID 13 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150 mg/day 
PGB 300 mg/day 
PGB 300/600 mg/day 
Mixed study 
Study 155 [BID 12 weeks] 
Placebo 
PGB 150-600 mg/day 
PGB 600 mg/day 
n 
Proportion  
respondersa 
82 
79 
82 
97 
77 
81 
81 
81 
86 
87 
69 
75 
93 
96 
96 
98 
29 
34 
43 
38 
87 
83 
82 
81 
81 
76 
84 
88 
52 
51 
62 
50 
93 
87 
98 
88 
62 
139
128
15% 
19% 
39% 
18% 
22% 
46% 
48% 
30% 
40% 
46% 
15% 
40% 
30% 
34% 
33% 
46% 
17% 
32% 
16% 
34% 
17% 
21% 
22% 
10% 
26% 
28% 
20% 
50% 
2% 
14% 
24% 
32% 
8% 
26% 
27% 
38% 
24% 
48% 
52% 
Treatment Comparisons 
95% CIb 
Difference 
Adjusted 
p-valuec 
(Pregabalin  Placebo) 
4.4% 
24% 
1.6% ; 7.3% 
11%, 37% 
0.42 
0.002 
   4.6% 
28% 
31% 
-7.0% ; 17% 
15% ; 41% 
17% ; 43% 
0.41 
0.001 
0.001 
9.9% 
16% 
-4.5%; 24% 
1.7%; 30% 
0.24 
0.03 
26% 
7.1%;39% 
0.001 
4.3% 
3.4% 
16% 
-9.6% ; 17% 
-10%  ; 16% 
2.0%   ; 29% 
15% 
-1.0% 
17% 
-6.7%; 35% 
-20% ;16% 
-4.7% ;36% 
0.74 
0.74 
0.04 
0.72 
0.78 
0.24 
4.7% 
     3.2% 
-7.3% ; 16% 
-8.6% ; 15% 
0.47 
0.47 
16% 
18% 
4.2% ; 28% 
5.6% ; 30% 
0.006 
0.006 
30% 
16% ; 42%  
< 0.001 
12% 
22% 
30% 
19% 
19% 
30% 
5.2% ; 24%   
10% ;  34% 
19% ;  44% 
0.046 
0.002 
0.002 
8.1% ; 29.7%   
8.4% ; 29.3% 
18.1% ;  41% 
0.001 
0.001 
0.001 
24% 
28.2% 
9.5% ;  36% 
13.4% ;  41% 
<0.001 
<0.001 
a Subjects with 50% reduction as compared to baseline. 
b CI95% by assessor. 
c p by company; CMH procedure adjusted for centre, p-value adjusted for multiple comparison between treatment arms if applicable. 
d xx weeks indicates that the study was stopped prematurely. In study 173 the median exposure time was 2-3 weeks and  75% of the subjects 
received pregabalin for  less than 5 weeks., in study 132 the median exposure time was less than 3 weeks, 75% of the subjects received 
pregabalin for  less than 7 weeks. 
Secondary efficacy variables 
Overall,  the  results  with  respect  to  the  secondary  efficacy  variables  (including  SF  McGill  Pain 
questionnaire  when  analysed,  sleep  interference,  global  impression  of  change)  were  consistent  with 
24/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that  of  the  primary  one,  nevertheless,  their  results  are  only  considered  of  exploratory  value.  For 
example, regarding the global impression of change, 12.5% to 39.2% of the patients rated much/very 
much  improved  in  the  placebo-arms,  from  21.3%  to  33.8%  in  the  PGB  75  mg  arm,  from  22.2%  to 
45.8%  in  the  PGN  150  mg  arm,  from  27.2%  to  55.7%  in  the  PGB  300  mg  arm  and  from  36.5%  to 
69.2% in the PGB 300/600 mg arms. 
Based upon the longitudinal analyses of the weakly mean pain scores the onset of treatment effect was 
observed by week 1. The magnitude of effect was maintained relative to placebo through to the end of 
studies. 
Results  with  respect  to  quality  of  life/mood  evaluations  showed  no  consistent  pattern  except  on  the 
bodily pain dimension, which is not unexpected. 
Ancillary analyses 
Impact of dizziness and somnolence 
- 
Dizziness  and  somnolence  may  have  an  impact  on  the  pain  perception.  Somnolence  is  an  adverse 
event of pregabalin with an high incidence rate ranging from 20%-30% in the neuropathy studies. In 
order  to  estimate  the  magnitude  of  this  effect  the  applicant  initially  performed,  for  some  studies, 
separate analysis of the primary endpoint for patients without dizziness and somnolence. As these data 
might suggest a reduction of the effect in the absence of somnolence was observed, further analyses 
were  requested  to  assess  the  impact  of  somnolence  as  well  as  to  assess  the  clinical  relevance  of  the 
overall effect. See “Discussion on clinical efficacy”. 
Impact of rescue medication on the results 
- 
It  was  questioned  whether  and  to  what  extent  the  use  of  concurrent  medication  could  influence  the 
results, taking into consideration the two types of co-medication allowed; i.e. chronic co-medication 
kept stable during the PHN studies and paracetamol allowed as needed during all studies. 
Considering  that  paracetamol  is  not  considered  sufficiently  effective  in  the  treatment  of  neuropathic 
pain  and  that  its  use  as  rescue  medication  was  limited  and  homogeneous  (from  1%  to  7%  in  the 
placebo arms and from 1% to 7.9% in the PGB arms), it is a priori not expected to have had an impact 
on the observed effect size. 
An analysis estimating the treatment effect after  adjustment for stable concurrent  medications in the 
PHN studies did not show any relevant difference. 
Supportive studies 
Patients  in  pivotal  neuropathic  pain  studies  had  the  option  to  continue  treatment  in  open  label 
extension  studies.  The  main  objective  of  these  studies  was  to  assess  the  safety  profile  of  long-term 
exposure  but  long-term  efficacy  was  also  examined.  Dose  adjustments  of  pregabalin  were  allowed 
within the range of 75 to 600 mg/day as well as alternative pain medications. Overall in the open-label 
extension studies, the most commonly selected pregabalin dose range was 300 to 449 mg/day. Due to 
their design and the number of drop-outs, these studies do not provide definitive evidence to establish 
the maintenance of the efficacy. 
An ad hoc analysis of the open-label VAS scores from 4 extension studies was conducted on a cohort 
of  patients  who  had  at  least  1  year  exposure  to  pregabalin  in  the  open-label  phase.  The  cohort 
comprised  217  patients;  69  in  the  placebo,  59  in  the  150  mg/day  pregabalin,  23  in  the  300  mg/day 
pregabalin and 66 in the 600 mg/day pregabalin-treatment group. The patient’s pain scores were stable 
over  time  but  such  retrospective  cohort  analysis  are  not  that  informative  as  patients  who  benefit 
continue in the study. 
Analysis performed across trials 
• 
A meta-analysis incorporating all 9 completed fixed-dose neuropathic pain trials (studies DPN-014, -
029,  -040,  -131,  -149  and  PHN-030,  -045,  -127  and  -196)  was  performed.  The  amitriptyline  arm 
(study  DPN-040)  and  the  non-effective  dose  arms  of  75  mg/day (studies  DPN-029,  PHN-030)  were 
excluded. For Studies -127, -149, and -196, patients with a CLcr>30 and ≤60 mL/min randomised to 
the  300/600  mg/day  group  received  300  mg/day  and  those  with  CLcr  >60  mL/min  received  600 
mg/day.  
The analysis was adjusted for age, neuropathic pain model (PHN or DPN), baseline pain, study, 
dosing regimen (BID or TID) and treatment group (dose). The treatment effect is larger in PHN 
25/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
compared to DPN. The difference, ranged between 0.28 and 0.47 depending on the dose group is 
considered substantial. Differences in effect size in BID and TID regimes is only substantial for the 
300 mg dose, and the clinical relevance of the difference is questionable. 
Epilepsy 
Three  multicenter,  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo  controlled  parallel  group  add-on  studies  (009, 
011,  and  034)  were  submitted  to  support  the  claim  of  adjunctive  treatment  in  partial  seizures 
with/without generalised seizures. Doses ranged from 50 to 600 mg daily given three (TID) or twice 
(BID)  daily. Study duration  was 11/12  weeks.  In two studies (009,  011) patients  were titrated  up  to 
their  fixed  dose,  in  one  study  (034),  no  titration  scheme  was  used.  Three  open  label,  uncontrolled, 
extension  studies  (010,  012,  035)  were  conducted.  The  main  features  of  the  pivotal  studies  are 
presented in the following table. 
Study 
009 
USA, Canada 
June 1998-September 1999 
011 
Europe, South Africa, 
Australia  
April 1998-November 1999 
034 
USA, Canada 
November 1998-September 
1999 
Design 
RD, DB, Plac, PA 
Baseline: 8 weeks 
Titration: 1 week 
DB: 11 weeks 
Withdrawal: 1 week 
Follow up: 4-6 weeks 
RD, DB, Plac, PA 
Baseline: 8 weeks 
Titration: 1 week 
DB: 11 weeks 
Withdrawal: 1 week 
Follow up: 4-6 weeks 
RD, DB, Plac, PA 
Baseline: 8 weeks 
Titration: - 
DB: 12 weeks 
Withdrawal: 6 days 
Follow up: 4-6 weeks 
Treatment arms 
PBO 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
Assessments 
Primary: RRatio 
Secondary: Responder rate, PCH, seizure 
free interval, RRatio per seizure type, 
seizure freedom 
PBO 
PGB 150 mg/day TID 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
Primary: RRatio 
Secondary: Responder rate, PCH, SGTC, 
seizure free interval, RRatio per seizure 
type, seizure freedom 
PBO 
PGB 50 mg/day BID 
PGB 150 mg/day BID 
PGB 300 mg/day BID 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
Primary: RRatio 
Secondary: Responder rate, PCH, seizure 
free interval, RRatio per seizure type, 
seizure freedom, QOLIE-31, Mastery 
Scale, Headache Pain Scale, Treatment 
Satisfaction and Compliance Scale, QOL 
Change Scale 
RD: randomized, DB: double blind, Plac: placebo, PA: parallel arms 
RRatio: Response ratio 
PCH: percent change from baseline 
QOLIE-31: Quality of life in epilepsy 
Study Participants 
Patients  with  medically  refractory  partial  seizures  (simple  partial,  complex  partial,  and  secondarily 
generalised), male and female, from the age of 12 (034) to 18 (009, 011) years on, and of any race, 
were  eligible  to  participate.  Patients  were  diagnosed  as  suffering  from  epilepsy  with  partial  seizures 
following  standard  procedures,  and  were  considered  refractory  to  treatment  if  they  had  received  at 
least  1-3  standard  anti-epileptic  drugs  (AED’s)  at  doses  within  an  acceptable  therapeutic  range, 
without sufficient effect. The following table summarises the inclusion and exclusion criteria. 
Inclusion criteria 
•  Diagnosis of epilepsy with partial seizures, as defined in the International League Against 
Epilepsy Classification of Seizures. Recent EEG (within preceding 2 years) must be consistent 
with the diagnosis of focal epilepsy 
•  Pre-screening Seizure Frequency of minimally 3 partial seizures during the month prior to 
screening 
•  Baseline Seizure Frequency of minimally 6 partial seizures during the baseline phase, with no 4 
week seizure-free period 
•  Currently receiving at least 1 and not more than 3 AED’s that are within a clinically acceptable 
therapeutic range 
•  History of being refractory to more than one marketed AED at maximum-tolerated dosages 
•  Aged (12*) 18 years or older, weighing (>40kg*) between 50 to 135 kg 
•  Males, and nonpregnant, nonlactating females who were premenarchal, postmenopausal, 
surgically sterilized, or using a reliable method of contraception (barrier or hormonal) and had a 
negative pregnancy test prior to study entry 
•  Normal ECG including a 2-minute rhythm strip, Funduscopy and visual acuity assessment at 
screening without abnormal findings, Chest X-ray at screening without abnormal findings 
•  CT scan/MRI within 2 years prior to screening without abnormal findings 
26/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Exclusion criteria 
•  Absence seizures 
•  Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome 
•  Progressive neurologic or systemic disorders 
•  Treatable causes of seizures 
•  WBC < 2500/mm3; neutrophil count <1500/mm3; platelet count <100x103/mm3 
•  History or clinical evidence of cardiovascular, haematologic, hepatic, or renal disease 
•  Status epilepticus within the previous year 
•  Significant psychiatric disorder or recurrent episodes of severe depression. Patients with mild, 
chronic depression without recent hospitalization who are being maintained on a stable dose of a 
single antidepressant were allowed to enter the study 
•  Administration of any investigational drug within 30 days prior to screening 
•  Administration of any concomitant medication that could alter the effectiveness of the patient’s 
medication response or seizure frequency 
•  Alcohol or drug abuse within the previous year 
•  Treatment with gabapentin, unless discontinued at least 1 week prior to entry into baseline 
•  Pregnancy or nursing 
* 
Protocol difference in study 034 
Treatments 
Apart from pregabalin and placebo (see table with main feature of the studies), patients remained on 
their  current  AED  therapy,  except  for  those  drugs  that  were  excluded  in  the  exclusion  criteria  or 
otherwise  (i.e.  vigabatrin,  gabapentin,  macrolide  antibiotics,  antihistamines,  phenothiazines  and 
antiarrhythmics).  The  concomitant  AED’s  were  to  be  kept  stable  during  the  trial,  but  could  be 
decreased in case of danger of toxicity. Patients who suffered from mild depression could stay on their 
antidepressive medication during the trial. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary outcome parameter was the Response Ratio (RRatio) after 11 (12) weeks of fixed dose 
treatment. The RRatio is calculated by dividing the difference between the 28-day seizure rate during 
treatment (T) and baseline (B) by the sum of baseline (B) and treatment (T) rate and multiplying it by 
100. A RRatio of –33 is equivalent to a 50% reduction in seizure rate. 
Several secondary endpoints were assessed, in particular: 
1.  
Responder Rate, i.e. the percent of patients who had at least a 50% reduction in 28-day seizure 
frequency compared to baseline seizure frequency. 
Percent change (PCH) of seizure frequency from baseline.  
Analysis per seizure type. 
Seizure-free analysis (number of seizure-free days) 
Health outcome assessment (study 034 only) 
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
The observed seizure rate during baseline and treatment was standardised for a 28-day period, based 
on the patient’s daily diary data using the following procedure: 
Number of partial seizures in period 
28-day rate = -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- x 28 
[number of days in period-number of missing diary days in period] 
Sample size 
The sample size estimate of each study was based on the RRatio and the Responder Rate of previous 
experiences  with  add-on  studies  of  gabapentin.  Assuming  a  RRatio  of  –15  for  pregabalin,  –3  for 
placebo,  and  a  10%  dropout  rate  at  week  12,  a  total  of  80  patients  per  treatment  group  were  to  be 
randomised  to  provide  >80%  power  (α=0.05,  2-sided)  for  the  ITT  population.  Similarly,  with  an 
assumed 30% Response Rate for pregabalin and 10% for placebo, 80 patients were to be randomised, 
expecting a 10% dropout rate. 
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy outcome parameter (RRatio) was analysed using analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
based on ranks with treatment and centre as main effects. For the multiple testing (two dose regimens 
27/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
against placebo and each other) that was performed, the Hochberg’s procedure was followed, ranking 
the p-values for multiple comparisons from highest to lowest values. 
The  secondary  outcome  parameter  (Responder  Rate)  was  summarised  by  treatment  group  and 
analysed using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel chi-square test, adjusting for centre.  
All other outcome parameters were presented as descriptives. 
Results 
Participant flow and baseline characteristics 
The  following  table  describes  dose  related  participant  flow  over  studies.  The  occurrence  of  adverse 
events was clearly dose related. 
Study 
Treatment 
Eligible/ 
Randomised 
(ITT) 
Withdrawal 
for adverse 
event 
N (%) 
Withdrawal 
for lack of 
efficacy 
N (%) 
Completed 
study 
N (%) 
378/313 (312) 
55 (17.6) 
8 (2.6) 
237 (75.7) 
009 
011 
034 
Placebo 
600 mg/day PGB/TID 
600 mg/day PGB/BID 
7 (7.1) 
21 (18.9) 
27 (26.0) 
5 (5.1) 
2 (1.8) 
1 (1.0) 
81 (82.7) 
85 (76.6) 
71 (68.3) 
344/288 (287) 
33 (11.5) 
6 (2.1) 
241 (83.7) 
Placebo 
150 mg/day PGB/TID 
600 mg/day PGB/TID 
6 (6.2) 
10 (10.1) 
17 (18.5) 
5 (5.2) 
0 (0) 
1 (1.1) 
84 (86.6) 
88 (88.9) 
69 (75) 
586/455 (453) 
46 (10.1) 
13 (2.9) 
378 (83.1) 
Placebo 
50 mg/day PGB/BID 
150 mg/day PGB/BID 
300 mg/day PGB/BID 
600 mg/day PGB/BID 
5 (5.0) 
6 (6.8) 
1 (1.1) 
13 (14.4) 
21 (23.6) 
5 (5.0) 
1 (1.1) 
1 (1.1) 
2 (2.2) 
4 (4.5) 
87 (87) 
78 (88.6) 
81 (92) 
71 (78.9) 
61 (68.5) 
The baseline characteristics of the study population show an equal distribution of males and females 
over the different studies, the majority being Caucasian, and representative of the Western population. 
Further main characteristics are similar as well and representative of the target adult population with 
partial epilepsy. However, only 17 elderly (>65 years) were included, and 10 adolescents between the 
age  of  12-16 years. The  median  baseline  28-day seizure frequency  was sufficiently high (range  9.3-
12.0) to be able to demonstrate a treatment effect. The majority of patients used 2 concurrent AED’s; 
the most frequently used drugs being carbamazepine and lamotrigine, or their combination. 
Outcomes and estimation 
It is recommended in the CPMP guideline to define the proportion (pre-defined) responders as primary 
measure, since it reflects both seizure reduction and its clinical significance. The response ratio is not 
considered the best outcome parameter, since the distribution of the RRatio is often found to be non-
normal which may biase the estimate and it is difficult to establish the clinical relevance of the effect 
based  on  this  parameter.  Efficacy  will  primarily  be  evaluated  on  the  basis  of  the  responder  data 
(responders being defined as those subjects with >50% reduction in seizures). 
Results  regarding  RRatio  and  Responder  analyses  are  provided  in  the  following  tables.  No  efficacy 
was demonstrated for the 50 mg/day PGB. Efficacy has been demonstrated in the dose range of 150-
600 mg/day of pregabalin for the primary outcome measure RRatio and is in general supported by the 
outcome  measures  Responder  Rate.  Overall,  approximately  35%  of  patients  can  be  regarded  as 
responders  to  the  600  mg/day  pregabalin,  taking  the  placebo  response  into  account.  This  number  is 
reduced to 25% for the 300 mg/day dose, and further reduced to <20% for the 150 mg/day dose. The 
clinical relevance for the latter dose may be considered questionable. Although the data may suggest 
that the TID dosing schedule is favourable this is unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
28/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of efficacy on the primary outcome measure (RRatio analyses) 
Study  Treatment arms 
N  RRatio 
009 
011 
034 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
PBO 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
PGB 150 mg/day TID 
PBO 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
PGB 300 mg/day BID 
PGB 150 mg/day BID 
PGB 50 mg/day BID 
PBO 
103 
111 
98 
92 
99 
96 
89 
90 
86 
88 
100 
-28.4 
-36.1 
0.6 
-31.4 
-11.5 
0.9 
-37.4 
-27.8 
-20.5 
-6.2 
-3.8 
Treatment differences 
95% CI 
Mean (SE) 
p-value 
-29.0 (5.0) 
-36.7 (5.0) 
[-38.9, -19.0]  P< 0.0001 
[-46.4, -27.0]  P< 0.0001 
-32.3 (4.2) 
-12.4 (4.1) 
[-40.6, -24.0]  P< 0.0001 
P= 0.0007 
[-20.5, -4.3] 
-33.5 (4.8) 
-24.0 (4.8) 
-16.6 (4.8) 
-2.3 (4.8) 
[-42.9, -24.1]  P< 0.0001 
[-33.3, -14.6]  P< 0.0001 
P< 0.0001 
[-26.1, -7.2] 
P= 0.4232 
[-11.7,7.1] 
PCH: Percent Change from Baseline; PGB: Pregabalin; PBO: Placebo; BID: Twice Daily; TID: Three times Daily 
Summary of efficacy on the secondary outcome measure (% responders analyses)  
Study  Treatment arms 
Responder 
Rate n/N (%) 
Treatment differences 
009 
011 
034 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
PBO 
PGB 600 mg/day TID 
PGB 150 mg/day TID 
PBO 
PGB 600 mg/day BID 
PGB 300 mg/day BID 
PGB 150 mg/day BID 
PGB 50 mg/day BID 
PBO 
44/103 (43) 
54/111 (49) 
9/98 (9) 
40/92 (44) 
14/99 (14) 
6/96 (6) 
45/89 (51) 
36/90 (40) 
27/86 (31) 
13/88 (15) 
14/100 (14) 
Percent (SE)  95% CI 
33.5 (5.7) 
39.5 (5.6) 
[22.4, 44.7] 
[28.5, 50.4] 
p-value 
P< 0.001 
P< 0.001 
37.2 (5.7) 
7.9 (4.3) 
[26.0, 48.5] 
[-0.5, 16.3] 
P< 0.001 
P= 0.087 
36.6 (6.3) 
26.0 (6.2) 
17.4 (6.1) 
0.8 (5.1) 
[24.1, 49.0] 
[13.8, 38.2] 
[5.5, 29.3] 
[-9.3, 10.8] 
p< 0.001 
p< 0.001 
p< 0.006 
p= 0.840 
Secondary outcome measures (PCH, seizure-free analysis, health outcome) 
Efficacy on the secondary outcome percent change from baseline (PCH) was consistent with RRatio 
and Responder Rate. The analysis of seizure freedom is rather limited, and would be more relevant if 
evaluated  after  a  longer  period  of  time  (1  year).  No  data  were  available  with  respect  to  the  health 
questionnaires assessed in study 034.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies were performed in children and adolescents, or in elderly. 
Supportive studies 
Six supportive studies (007,  008,  010,  012,  035,  and  145) have  been submitted,  three  of them (010, 
012, and 035) being the open label extension studies of the pivotal efficacy studies.  
The objectives of study 007 were to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pregabalin at 600 mg/day as 
compared with gabapentin at 300 mg/day in hospitalized patients with complex partial (CP) seizures, 
with  or  without  secondary  generalization,  who  had  their  concomitant  antiepileptic  drugs  (AEDs) 
discontinued as part of an inpatient hospitalization for clinical seizure monitoring. This trial explores 
the paradigm of pre-surgical patients which involves patient very difficult to treat. The gabapentin arm 
in this trial is a pseudo-placebo arm because 300 mg/d of gabapentin is a sub-therapeutic dose. This 
trial does not add relevant information on the potential efficacy of pregabalin. Patients from this study 
continued in open label treatment (008). 
29/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 145 is a double-blind controlled titration study that was prematurely ended due to the clinical 
hold imposed by the FDA. Only 3 patients enrolled in this study. 
The  open  label  extension  studies  of  the  pivotal  efficacy  studies  aimed  to  evaluate  long-term  safety, 
tolerance  and  efficacy  of  pregabalin  administered  as  adjunctive  therapy  at  dosages  from  75  to  600 
mg/day  on  a  twice  a  day  (BID)  or  3  times  a  day  (TID)  dosing  schedule  in  patients  with  refractory 
partial  seizures.  Subjects  were  the  ones  who  had  chosen  to  enter  open  label  treatment  after 
participating in the controlled studies. In addition, newly recruited patients were allowed to enter. For 
these  newly  recruited  patients,  the  inclusion  criteria  were  broadened  with  respect  to  the  minimum 
amount  of  seizures  required  in  the  preceding  8  weeks  (4,  instead  of  6).  No  primary  or  secondary 
outcome  parameters  were  pre-defined.  Outcomes  were  described  for  Responder  Rate,  PCH,  and 
seizure-freedom.  Assessments  were  taken  at  week  4,  8,  16,  24,  and  every  12  weeks  henceforth.  A 
responder  rate  of  37%  and  a  median  percent  reduction  from  baseline  of  38%  were  seen  for  the 
evaluable population during the initial 12-week period of open-label. For a cohort of patients followed 
for  2  years,  the  responder  rate  and  median  percent  change  at  subsequent  intervals  were  maintained 
over  time.  Nevertheless,  the  gradual  dropout  of  patients  over  time  because  of  lack  of  efficacy  or 
tolerance  to  the  study  drug  was  not  evaluated  against  the  background  of  the  positive  responder’s 
cohort  of  the  two  years  follow-up.  Moreover,  information  on  dosing  and  dose  adjustments  during 
long-term  treatment  was  lacking  and  is  essential  for  a  reliable  judgement.  Similarly,  limited 
information was given on the occurrence of withdrawal or rebound phenomena after withdrawal of the 
study drug both in the short- and long-term trials. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Peripheral Neuropathy 
To support the neuropathic pain claim, twelve randomised placebo controlled studies were submitted. 
Six  studies  concerned  the  diabetic  neuropathy  model  and  five  studies  the  postherpetic  neuralgia 
model. One study concerned both models. Doses ranged from 75 to 600 mg daily given twice or three 
times daily. Study duration ranged from 5 to 13 weeks. 
Pregabalin  appears  to  be  efficacious  in  reducing  pain  in  those  polyneuropathy  and  mononeuropathy 
pain  models.  A  statistically  significant  difference  in  mean  endpoint  score  between  pregabalin  and 
placebo was observed for the 300 mg and 600 mg doses, with mean differences in pain score ranged 
from  -0.18  to  -1.57  and  -0.64  to  -2.02  points  for  300  mg  and  600  mg  respectively.  Results  are  less 
consistent with pregabalin 150  mg daily and 75  mg daily is not effective. The overall picture of the 
primary efficacy variable was confirmed in responder analysis. 
Nevertheless, the following issues were discussed regarding clinical efficacy: 
- 
clinical  relevance  of  the  effect,  taking  into  account  the  neuropathic  pain  model,  the  dose  and 
regimen (BID and TID), the influence of somnolence; 
the posology to be recommended; 
the maintenance of the effect. 
- 
- 
In addressing the clinical relevance, no distinction was initially made between indication (DPN versus 
PHN), and dose regime used (BID or TID).  For an indication in peripheral neuropathic pain, efficacy 
should  be  demonstrated  in  two  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  models,  clinical  relevance  should  be 
established for each pain model separately. A meta-analysis indicated the treatment effect is larger in 
PHN  compared  to  DPN.  The  pain  scores  differ  between  the  BID  and  TID  regimes,  but  the  clinical 
relevance of this difference is questionable.  
Dizziness  and  somnolence  may  have  an  impact  on  the  pain  perception.  Somnolence  is  an  adverse 
event of pregabalin with an incidence rate ranging from 20%-30% in the neuropathy studies. In order 
to  estimate  the  magnitude  of  this  effect  the  applicant  initially  performed,  for  some  studies,  separate 
analysis of the primary endpoint for patients without dizziness and somnolence. As these data might 
suggest  a  reduction  of  the  effect  in  the  absence  of  somnolence,  further  analyses  were  requested  to 
assess the impact of somnolence as well as to assess the clinical relevance of the overall effect. The 
applicant evaluated the pain scores and treatment differences for patients with and without somnolence 
separately.  The difference in pain  score for  patients with/without somnolence  were  minimal but this 
was  not  the  case  for  the  responders  analysis.  The  analysis  originally  presented  was  not  split  by 
indication (while the age per indication differs considerably and patients of elder age might be more 
sensitive to somnolence) or dose regime, but was provided later. 
30/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  clinical  relevance  of  the  observed  effect  was  therefore  originally  not  considered  sufficiently 
addressed for PHN and DPN separately and therefore, separate analysis of responder rates taking into 
account the dose regime (TID versus BID) and the absence/presence of somnolence were requested. 
The applicant argued that the observed effect on neuropathic pain is clinically relevant by relating the 
observed  response  on  the  pain  scale  and  PGIC  (Patient’s  global  impression  of  change),  for  both 
diabetic  neuropathy  and  postherpetic  neuropathy.  The  proportion  of  patients  achieving  a  clinical 
relevant  response  (defined  as  very  much  or  much  improved  on  the  PGIC)  is  given  in  the  next  table 
based on 9 studies): 
PGIC category* 
DPN 
PHN 
Pregabalin 
n=828 
Placebo 
n=413 
Pregabalin 
n=657 
Placebo 
n=341 
6.3% 
15.1% 
47.8% 
Very much 
improved  
32.7% 
Much improved  
Minimally improved   25.9% 
19.4% 
No change 
4.5% 
Minimally worse  
2.2% 
Much worse 
0.2% 
Very much worse  
*Adapted from table 2 provided by the MAH, by assessor 
23.2% 
24.9% 
33.7% 
6.8% 
4.6% 
0.5% 
49.8% 
2.4% 
29.5% 
65.4% 
5.1% 
9.6% 
22.7% 
25.6% 
30.0% 
7.0% 
3.5% 
1.7% 
32.3% 
62.6% 
5.2% 
4.7% 
12.3% 
19.1% 
45.2% 
10.3% 
6.5% 
2.1% 
17.0% 
74.5% 
8.5% 
In  addition,  a  clinically  meaningful  effect  on  responder  rates  is  evident  in  patients  who  do  not 
experience somnolence as well in patients who report somnolence across the neuropathic pain studies, 
however,  point  estimate  of  responder  rates  are  lower  in  the  absence  of  somnolence.  This  effect  is 
consistent over the dose range.  In controlled clinical trials 35% of the pregabalin treated patients and 
18% of the patients on placebo had a 50% improvement in pain score.  For patients not experiencing 
somnolence such an improvement was observed in 33% of patients treated with pregabalin and 18% of 
patients  on  placebo.    For  patients  who  experienced  somnolence  the  responder  rates  were  48%  on 
pregabalin  and  16%  on  placebo.  In  conclusion,  the  observed  effect  on  the  pain  score  is  considered 
clinically  relevant  for  both  diabetic  neuropathy  as  well  as  post-herpetic  neuropathy  even  if  the 
observed effect is larger in presence of somnolence. 
62%
44%
51%
43%
33%
35%
27%
22% 22%
18%
Somnolence at any time
No-somnolence
58%
44%
43%
41%
29%
29%
23%
18%
15%
14%
s
r
e
d
n
o
p
s
e
R
75%
60%
45%
30%
15%
0%
Place bo 
P G B 75
P G B 1 50
P G B 30 0
P G B 3 600
Place b o 
P G B 7 5
P G B 1 50
P G B 30 0
P G B 36 00
DPN                                   PHN
Efficacy of 150mg/day in neuropathic pain was not consistent, nevertheless as it could be of benefit in 
some patients and represents a well-tolerated starting dose, it was accepted as starting dose. 
31/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparable  bioavailability  of  the  BID/TID  regime  has  been  shown;  the  treatment  regimens  were 
bioequivalent  with  respect  to  the  AUC  and  Cmax,  however,  Cmin  was  somewhat  lower  in  the  BID 
regime. In general, the overall safety profile is in favour of the BID regime but the efficacy profile is 
in favour of the TID regime. Nevertheless, the confidence interval for the difference between regimens  
was  [-0.2;  0.6],  based  on  a  meta-analysis  with  the  nine  completed  neuropathic  pain  studies,  and 
responder rates for BID and TID were similar across the dose range, as shown in the table below. The 
applicant  also  provided  data  showing  that  BID  and  TID  safety  profiles  do  not  differ  shortly  after 
initiation (one week) of treatment, even in elderly patients. Therefore, it was agreed that both BID and 
TID  regimens  would  be  acceptable  which  would  allow  the  physician  to  adapt  the  treatment  to  the 
individual patient’s need. 
Proportion of 50% Responders by Treatment Group (BID vs. TID) – Nine Completed Neuropathic Pain studies 
Treatment Group 
BID Dosing 
TID Dosing 
Placebo 
Pregabalin 150mg/day 
Pregabalin 300mg/day 
Pregabalin 600mg/day 
Nb Assessed  Nb of Responders (%)  Nb Assessed  Nb of Responders (%) 
580 
242  
262 
306 
103 (17.8%) 
 54 (22.3%) 
101 (38.5%) 
137 (44.8%) 
35 (18.8%) 
56 (30.6%) 
69 (29.6%) 
67 (45.6%) 
186 
183 
233 
147 
Initial  studies  were  considered  too  short  to  establish  maintenance  of  effect.  Studies  submitted  later 
(studies 196 and 155) were of at least 12 weeks duration which substantiated the maintenance of the 
effect. In Study 196 in patients with PHN, the observed effect size was of the same order of magnitude 
as  earlier  studies  and  the  effect  did  not  diminish  over  the  12  week  fixed  dose  phase.  Study  149  in 
diabetic patients was also of 12 weeks duration. The results of the new study 155 were less convincing 
due to a more complicated study design. Therefore the maintenance of effect over a time period of up 
to  12  weeks  is  considered  established.  Long-term  efficacy  (i.e.  >  12  weeks)  is  difficult  to  assess 
because only open label studies are available. In a cohort of 517 patients treated for at least 420 days, 
mean  pregabalin  dose  was  maintained  over  time  and  pooled  VAS  scores  were  stable.  Although  the 
value  of  the  cohort  study  is  limited  for  addressing  the  long  term  efficacy,  these  data  argue  for  the 
maintenance of an effect and do not suggest that tolerance could be a major issue.  
Epilepsy 
To  support  the  claim  of  adjunctive  treatment  in  partial  seizures  with/without  generalised  seizures, 
three randomised placebo controlled add-on studies were submitted. The dose ranged from 50 to 600 
mg daily in similar dosing schedules as for the neuropathic pain. Study duration was 11/12 weeks.  
Efficacy  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  dose  range  of  150-600  mg/day  in  a  dose  dependent  way; 
approximately  35% of responders  to the 600  mg/day pregabalin,  25% for  the  300  mg/day dose, and 
<20%  for  the  150  mg/day  dose,  after  adjusting  for  placebo.  Although  the  effect  of  the  150  mg/day 
dose was inconsistent , 150 mg/day is an acceptable starting dose. Additional outcome measures, such 
as percent change from baseline (PCH) and the number of patients experiencing a substantial amount 
of seizure-free days were supportive to some extent, but less favourable. 
Although efficacy in short-term trials has been demonstrated, long-term maintenance of efficacy is not 
established. Long-term efficacy data, based on the open-label studies, is of limited value because the 
population  studied  was  a  mixed  one  (responders,  (partial)  responders  and  patients  converting  from 
placebo to pregabalin). 33% of patients dropped out of the open-label extension studies due to lack of 
efficacy. Of the patients who discontinued due to lack of efficacy, 39% of them displayed an increase 
in seizure frequency compared to baseline. Whether or not tolerance to the study drug was developed, 
was  investigated  through  data  from  a  two  years  cohort.  In  this  cohort,  of  good  responders,  minimal 
dose adjustments were needed to maintain efficacy, which would support the fact that tolerance to the 
product is not a major concern.  
With respect to the TID and BID dosing, one head to head epilepsy study (009) was performed and 
showed  a  slightly  better  response  with  TID  as  compared  to  BID.  Nevertheless,  study  009  was  not 
prospectively  powered  to  detect  a  difference  between  the  BID  and  TID  regimens,  and  the  observed 
difference  in  responder  rate  (5.9%)  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.430).  The  Applicant  also 
performed a pooled analysis of the epilepsy studies showing that the 95% confidence interval on the 
treatment difference in responder rate between 600mg/day BID and TID was –9.8 to 9.9, and 5.3 to 
29.2 for 150mg/day (300 mg/day was only studied in BID regimen). Regarding the safety profile, TID 
dosing  seemed  more  favourable  in  the  epilepsy  population,  especially  with  regard  to  dizziness  and 
32/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
somnolence, but this was in contrast to what was found for the incidence of these adverse events in the 
overall safety profile of pregabalin and the safety profiles of BID and TID were similar in study 009. 
In addition, the applicant provided data showing that BID and TID safety profiles do not differ shortly 
after  initiation  (one  week)  of  treatment.  Therefore,  it  was  agreed  that  both  BID  and  TID  regimens 
would  be acceptable, which  would allow the physician  to adapt the treatment to individual  patient’s 
need. 
Clinical safety 
Safety  of  pregabalin  was  assessed  on  all  subjects  who  participated  in  any  study,  controlled  and 
uncontrolled,  with  pregabalin  until  the  time  of  cut-off  that  was  determined  for  the  integrated  safety 
database. This does not include data from studies 155 and 196 which were submitted later. 
•  Patient exposure 
An overview of the number of subjects receiving study medication and included the safety database is 
given in the following table. 
Clinical Pharmacology (Phase 1) Studies 
Placebo 
134 
Pregabalin 
440 
Comparator 
140 
Totala 
472 
Phase 2/3 Studies Not in Integrated Safety Database 
120 
14 
Acute Dental Pain 
Studies Conducted in Japan 
Clinical Phase 2/3 Integrated Safety 
Database 
Chronic Pain 
Neuropathic Pain 
Diabetic Neuropathy 
Postherpetic Neuralgia 
Other Nonneuropathic Pain 
Other Neuropathic Pain 
Epilepsy (Adjuvant Therapy in Partial 
Seizures) 
Psychiatry 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder 
Other Psychiatry 
2544 
1189 
764 
459 
305 
416 
9 
294 
1061 
656 
405 
267 
51 
8228 
3490 
2099 
1327 
772 
1364 
27 
1613 
3125 
1954 
1171 
114 
-- 
729 
94 
87 
87 
7 
51 
584 
412 
172 
501 
65 
9849 
3931 
2409 
1525 
884 
1484 
38 
1660 
4258 
2687 
1571 
a  Patients who received ≥1 treatment may be included in ≥1 column but are counted once in the “total” 
column. 
As of the day of database lock, 5232 patients were randomised to pregabalin in the controlled studies, 
59.2%  being  exposed  for  >  6  weeks,  and  15.2%  being  exposed  for  >  12  weeks.  In  the  combined 
controlled  and  uncontrolled  studies,  8228  patients  were  randomised  to  pregabalin,  55.8%  being 
exposed > 12 weeks, and 26.3% being expose for > 1 year. Forty seven patients (0.6%) reached the 
maximum  exposure  time,  i.e.  ≥3  years.  In  the  open  extension  studies  with  flexible  dosing  regimes, 
approximately one-third of the patients were exposed to a dose range of 300-450 mg/day pregabalin, 
comprising  the  average  recommended  dose.  Another  one-third  of  patients  were  exposed  to  the 
maximum  dose  of  600  mg/day  pregabalin.  Approximately  8%  of  patients  in  the  controlled  and 
uncontrolled studies were exposed to 600mg/day for ≥ 1 year. 
• 
Adverse events  
Overall 65% of placebo-treated patients and 79.6% of pregabalin treated patients experienced adverse 
events during the controlled trials. 
A summary of adverse events in >2% of all pregabalin-treated patients by decreasing frequency (all 
controlled studies, combined regimens) is provided in the table below. 
33/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Number of Patients (%)] 
Preferred Term 
400 PGB 
N = 360 
Placebo  
N = 2290 
199 (8.7) 
179 (7.8) 
307 (13.4) 
79 (3.4) 
179 (7.8) 
118 (5.2) 
48 (2.1) 
161 (7.0) 
31 (1.4) 
37 (1.6) 
19 (0.8) 
49 (2.1) 
24 (1.0) 
67 (2.9) 
17 (0.7) 
11 (0.5) 
89 (3.9) 
123 (5.4) 
52 (2.3) 
77 (3.4) 
24 (1.0) 
86 (3.8) 
12 (0.5) 
20 (0.9) 
30 (1.3) 
27 (1.2) 
11 (0.5) 
1488 (65.0) 
Dizziness  
Somnolence  
Headache  
Dry mouth  
Infection  
Asthenia  
Amblyopiab  
Nausea  
Peripheral oedema  
Thinking abnormal 
Weight gain  
Constipation  
Ataxia  
Accidental injury  
In coordination  
Euphoria  
Pain  
Diarrhoea  
Nervousness  
Flu syndrome  
Amnesia  
Insomnia  
Confusion  
Increased appetite  
Tremor  
Flatulence  
Diplopia  
Any AE 
*  Statistically significantly different from placebo based on odds ratio or Fisher’s Exact test (p<0.05) 
a 
b  Amblyopia was reported by the investigators mainly as blurred/blurry vision. 
300 PGB 
200 PGB 
N = 1100 
N = 207 
63* (30.4) 330* (30.0)  119* (33.1)
89* (24.7)
61* (29.5) 235* (21.4) 
70* (19.4)
45* (21.7)
42* (11.7)
33* (15.9)
44 (12.2)
30 (14.5)
34* (9.4) 
18* (8.7) 
21* (5.8) 
10* (4.8) 
38* (10.6)
19 (9.2) 
7 (1.9) 
4 (1.9) 
38* (10.6)
14* (6.8) 
19* (5.3) 
5 (2.4) 
27* (7.5) 
7 (3.4) 
9* (2.5) 
7* (3.4) 
8 (2.2) 
4 (1.9) 
27* (7.5) 
11* (5.3) 
22* (6.1) 
12* (5.8) 
9 (2.5) 
12 (5.8) 
18 (5.0) 
9 (4.3) 
20* (5.6) 
18* (8.7) 
16 (4.4) 
10 (4.8) 
9* (2.5) 
4 (1.9) 
22* (6.1) 
17* (8.2) 
9* (2.5) 
3 (1.4) 
10* (2.8) 
6* (2.9) 
7 (1.9) 
3 (1.4) 
6 (1.7) 
8* (3.9) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.5) 
282 (78.3)
171 (82.6)
150 PGB 
N = 1077 
163* (15.1) 
144* (13.4) 
117 (10.9) 
58* (5.4) 
86 (8.0) 
65 (6.0) 
47* (4.4) 
56 (5.2) 
41* (3.8) 
25 (2.3) 
38* (3.5) 
38* (3.5) 
20 (1.9) 
32 (3.0) 
10 (0.9) 
9 (0.8) 
47 (4.4) 
25 (2.3) 
22 (2.0) 
27 (2.5) 
16 (1.5) 
22 (2.0) 
17 (1.6) 
17 (1.6) 
13 (1.2) 
20 (1.9) 
17 (1.6) 
736 (68.3) 
94 (8.5) 
76* (6.9) 
83 (7.5) 
64 (5.8) 
64* (5.8) 
54 (4.9) 
91* (8.3) 
32* (2.9) 
52* (4.7) 
43* (3.9) 
33* (3.0) 
42 (3.8) 
29* (2.6) 
52* (4.7) 
40 (3.6) 
31 (2.8) 
21 (1.9) 
33 (3.0) 
25* (2.3) 
23 (2.1) 
27* (2.5) 
21 (1.9) 
17 (1.5) 
18 (1.6) 
23* (2.1) 
879 (79.9) 
All PGBa 
N = 5232 
450 PGB 
N = 501 
600 PGB 
N = 1738 
203* (40.5)  619* (35.6)  1520* (29.1) 
144* (28.7)  491* (28.3)  1183* (22.6) 
64 (12.8) 
611 (11.7) 
206 (11.9) 
70* (14.0)  188* (10.8)  477* (9.1) 
422 (8.1) 
104 (6.0) 
52 (10.4) 
384* (7.3) 
161* (9.3) 
31 (6.2) 
340* (6.5) 
156* (9.0) 
36* (7.2) 
330 (6.3) 
115 (6.6) 
44 (8.8) 
294* (5.6) 
122* (7.0) 
25* (5.0) 
292* (5.6) 
144* (8.3) 
35* (7.0) 
291* (5.6) 
142* (8.2) 
33* (6.6) 
243* (4.6) 
93* (5.4) 
30* (6.0) 
239* (4.6) 
141* (8.1) 
20* (4.0) 
221* (4.2) 
96* (5.5) 
19 (3.8) 
215* (4.1) 
93* (5.4) 
40* (8.0) 
203* (3.9) 
57* (3.3) 
49* (9.8) 
199 (3.8) 
67 (3.9) 
14 (2.8) 
177 (3.4) 
63 (3.6) 
21 (4.2) 
158 (3.0) 
54 (3.1) 
23* (4.6) 
153 (2.9) 
40 (2.3) 
23 (4.6) 
151* (2.9) 
78* (4.5) 
15* (3.0) 
149 (2.8) 
47 (2.7) 
17 (3.4) 
142* (2.7) 
64* (3.7) 
21* (4.2) 
127* (2.4) 
54* (3.1) 
18* (3.6) 
126* (2.4) 
77* (4.4) 
4 (0.8) 
122* (2.3) 
45* (2.6) 
19* (3.8) 
108* (2.1) 
56* (3.2) 
7 (1.4) 
442 (88.2)  1493 (85.9)  4163 (79.6) 
Includes other doses of pregabalin (e.g., 50 or 75 mg/day). Dose is total daily dose in mg/day given BID or TID. 
The  most  common  adverse  reactions  were  dizziness  (29.1%)  and  somnolence  (22.6%)  in  the 
pregabalin-treated  patients.  Other  adverse  events  that  were  more  frequently  reported  in  pregabalin-
treated patients than placebo-treated patients were dry mouth (9.1%), asthenia, amblyopia, peripheral 
oedema,  thinking  abnormal,  and  weight  gain.  The  incidences  of  dry  mouth,  asthenia,  amblyopia, 
peripheral oedema, and thinking abnormal were generally higher at doses greater than 150 mg/day but 
with no consistent pattern of dose response.  
Apart  from  dizziness  and  somnolence,  the  majority  of  the  other  adverse  reactions  are  also  CNS 
related,  and  appear  dose  related,  and  of  mild  to  moderate  severity.  The  overall  incidence  of  CNS 
adverse events was higher in the patients with epilepsy than in patients with neuropathic pain. In this 
regard,  the  use  of  concurrent  CNS  active  drugs  in  the  patients  with  epilepsy  should  be  noted.  The 
median time to onset of the CNS adverse events was short 1-2 days. Dizziness and somnolence did not 
resolve  by the last  day on study medication in 31% and  45% respectively, of  subjects, experiencing 
these adverse events.  
Accidental injury was mainly reported for the highest dose pregabalin. 
Amblyopia, mainly referred to as ‘blurred vision’, was the main visual disturbance found.  
Peripheral oedema (PE) was found mainly in the elderly from the neuropathic pain studies being seen 
in  approximately  11%  of  patients  after  1  –  3  months  of  treatment  and  persisted  in  54%  of  these 
specific patients. 
Weight gain was in general a dose-dependent finding across studies, which was first observed as an 
adverse event with a median time to onset of 2 weeks. Based on the incidences in both the controlled 
and uncontrolled studies, weight gain is persistent over time. 
See Discussion on clinical safety regarding somnolence/dizziness, peripheral oedema, weight gain and 
visual field abnormalities. 
34/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
A summary of BID and TID regimen adverse event profiles (all controlled studies including the later 
submitted  study  196  but  not  study  155  which  included  a  flexible  dose  arm)  is  provided  in  the  table 
below. The overall safety profile of BID and TID dosing is in favour of the BID, particularly for the 
most common adverse events dizziness and somnolence. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
An overview of the occurrence of serious adverse events in the different patient groups is presented in 
the table below.  
Overview of serious adverse events by indication 
Completed Controlled 
Placebo 
  All 
  Treatment Related 
All PGB 
  All 
  Treatment Related 
DPN 
N = 459 
11(2.4) 
3(0.7) 
N = 979 
38(3.9) 
3(0.3) 
[n (%) of Patients With Serious Adverse Events] 
GAD 
PHN 
Epilepsy 
NeP 
All Studiesa 
N = 305 
8(2.6) 
1(0.3) 
N = 577 
18(3.1) 
3(0.5) 
N = 764 
19(2.5) 
4(0.5) 
N = 1556 
56(3.6) 
6(0.4) 
N = 294 
13 (4.4) 
2 (0.7) 
N = 758 
29 (3.8) 
4 (0.5) 
N = 484 
6(1.2) 
2(0.4) 
N = 1149 
7(0.6) 
2(0.2) 
N = 2290 
47(2.1) 
8(0.3) 
N = 5232 
119(2.3) 
15(0.3) 
Combined DB/OL 
  All 
  Treatment Related 
N = Total number of patients in the patient population. 
a 
N = 1327 
203(15.3) 
14(1.1) 
N = 772 
116(15.0) 
16(2.1) 
N = 2099 
319(15.2) 
30(1.4) 
N = 1613 
185 (11.5) 
17 (1.1) 
N = 1954 
29(1.5) 
3(0.2) 
N = 8228 
619(7.5) 
58(0.7) 
Includes serious adverse events in nonneuropathic pain studies and other psychiatry studies. 
The overall incidence of serious adverse events in the controlled studies was 2.3% in the pregabalin 
treated  patients,  versus  2.1%  in  the  placebo  treated  patients.  The  most  common  treatment-related 
serious adverse events in the initial combined controlled and uncontrolled population were accidental 
injury (8 patients), visual field defect (6 patients), confusion (4 patients), ventricular extrasystoles (4 
patients), congestive heart failure (3 patients), ataxia (3 patients), dizziness (3 patients), amblyopia (2 
35/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
patients),  diplopia  (2  patients),  myopathy  (2  patients),  somnolence  (2  patients),  and  syncope 
(2 patients).  The  incidence  increased  when  combining  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  studies, 
indicating an increase of incidence over time.  
Death 
As of the data cut-off for the integrated clinical safety database, 49 patients in the Phase 2/3 clinical 
program had died. This total includes: 
- 
- 
- 
1 patient who received placebo in the Phase 2/3 controlled studies;  
6 patients who received at least one dose of pregabalin in the Phase 2/3 controlled studies; and 
42  patients  who  died  during  or  following  pregabalin  treatment  in  the  open-label  extension 
studies. 
The highest proportion of deaths was in the elderly PHN population (17 deaths, 2.2%; 34.8 deaths per 
1000 patient years) and the lowest was in the GAD population (1 death, 0.05%; 2.0 deaths per 1000 
patient years). The difference in death rates across indications may be explained at least in part by the 
relative ages and co-morbid conditions of the different populations. 
None  of  the  deaths  in  pregabalin-treated  patients  was  considered  related  to  treatment.  The  most 
frequent  causes  of  death  among  patients  treated  with  pregabalin  were  cardiovascular  events  and 
carcinomas. There were three sudden death, 2 in patients with diabetic neuropathy and 1 in a patient 
with epilepsy. 
Special safety issue 
Abuse  potential:  The  abuse  potential  of  pregabalin  was  studied  in  a  separate  study  (098)  versus 
diazepam  and  placebo.  Pregabalin  did  not  have  the  profile  of  a  prototypic  drug  of  abuse  when 
compared with diazepam. 
Withdrawal  and  rebound  phenomena:  No  proper  studies  were  performed  to  assess  withdrawal  and 
rebound phenomena in particular in patients with epilepsy. As a consequence, the summary of product 
characteristics  states  that  in  accordance  with  current  clinical  practice,  if  pregabalin  has  to  be 
discontinued either in neuropathic pain or epilepsy, it is recommended this should be done gradually 
over a minimum of 1 week. 
Ophthalmic  assessment:  Clinically,  visual  field  defects  during  treatment  with  pregabalin  have  been 
prospectively  investigated  by  closely  monitoring  patients  at  regular  intervals  during  the  short-  and 
long-term studies. At the time of the original submission, 6 cases (being unexplained) of visual field 
defects  were  found  with  pregabalin  and  clarifications  were  requested.  To  address  this  issue,  the 
applicant  provided  pharmacological  data  from  the  literature  to  demonstrate  that  pregabalin  and 
vigabatrin are different in their mechanism of action. In addition the safety database was extended and 
the applicant reviewed their current data extensively: ten cases (0.3%) were unexplained at that time. 
Data  were  collected  for  up  to  2.5  years  of  treatment  with  pregabalin.    Review  of  the  new  data 
supported  the  applicant’s  conclusion  from  the  first  submission  of  the  dossier  that  the  prevalence  of 
visual field defects is low, and appears to be related to underlying pathology of the patients rather than 
to treatment with pregabalin. However, the 10 unexpected cases still require caution. From vigabatrin 
it is known that visual field defects are cumulative upon exposure. See discussion on clinical safety. 
Cardiotoxicity:  ECG  assessments  were  made  in  all  studies  with  PGB  at  several  times  (3-4)  during 
treatment. In general no significant abnormalities were reported. No QTc prolongation was reported. 
A slight increase of premature ventricular contractions was found in the elderly patients with diabetes. 
Reproductive  function:  In  preclinical  investigations,  sperm  abnormalities  were  reported,  especially 
with  respect  to  morphology,  at  exposure  levels  10  times  those  used  in  humans.  One  clinical  study 
(072)  was  performed  to  assess  reproductive  function  in  healthy  male  subjects.  46  subjects  (16  on 
placebo and 32 on PGB 600 mg/day) were treated for 14 weeks (2 weeks titration included). Subjects 
were  between  the  age  of  18  and  55  years.  Reproductive  function  was  assessed  on  sperm  count, 
motility (reduction  of  more than  5-10%  of baseline), and  morphology. Five subjects (3  PGB/2PBO) 
were  reported  with  >  15%  reduction  from  baseline  in  motility.  It  was  concluded  that  short-term 
treatment  with  pregabalin  does  not  induce  major  reproductive  abnormalities.  No  long-term  studies 
have been performed, nor studies related to age.  
36/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Laboratory findings 
• 
Classical laboratory parameters were measured during controlled trials. Findings of potential clinical 
importance to be discussed were related to creatine kinase, white blood cells and platelet. In addition, 
glycaemia is discussed in relation to body weight gain. 
Creatine  Kinase:  Although  the  mean  change  from  baseline  in  creatine  kinase  among  pregabalin 
treated patients was significantly different from placebo for each treatment group, there was no dose 
response  relationship.  In  the  combined  controlled  and  uncontrolled  studies,  the  mean  increase  in 
creatine  kinase  (13.425 U/L)  was  similar  in  magnitude  to  that  observed  in  the  controlled  studies.  A 
potentially  clinically  important  increase  in  creatine  kinase  occurred  in  1.7%  of  patients.  Serious 
adverse events of creatine phosphokinase were reported in 3 pregabalin-treated patients with epilepsy. 
Myopathy/rhabdomyolysis was reported in 2 patients. Overall, pregabalin appears to elevate creatine 
kinase  levels  in  some  patients.  Review  of  individual  patient  cases  does  not  suggest  a  clinically 
important risk of renal dysfunction associated with the elevations in creatine kinase. 
White  blood  cell:  Differences  in  WBC  mean  change  from  baseline  was  statistically  significant  in 
pregabalin group than in placebo group (controlled studies) with a decrease of 0.22×103/µL versus a 
decrease  of  0.11×103/µL.  There  is  no  pattern  of  consistent  decrease  but  the  incidence  of  infection 
deemed  to  increase  with  the  time  of  exposure  to  pregabalin.  Hence,  it  was  questioned  whether  the 
immune  system  may  become  compromised  over  time.  Since  the  increase  of  infections  during  long-
term  pregabalin  exposure  is  difficult  to  judge  for  the  lack  of  a  placebo  arm,  the  incidence  of  new 
infections was calculated as of the time of open-label treatment. It appeared that the incidence of new 
infections  was not larger  during long-term treatment  than the incidence  during short-term treatment. 
Neither  elderly,  nor  diabetic  patients  were  more  at  risk.  Therefore,  the  decrease  in  WBC  does  not 
appear clinically significant. 
Platelets:  Short-term  pregabalin  treatment  decreases  platelet  numbers,  but  platelet  function  (as 
measured by platelet aggregation and Platelet Function Analyzer (PFA) closure time) remains intact. 
No bleeding abnormalities were associated with the platelet decrease. Long-term pregabalin treatment 
showed an initial decrease in platelet count over time until 12-15 months, whereas beyond that time, a 
gradual  increase  was  seen.  Hence,  long-term  pregabalin  exposure  leads  to  a  slight  elevation  in 
platelets. In the light of the pre-clinical finding of haemangiosarcoma in mice where platelet activation 
is  seen,  patients  with  increased  platelet  counts  were  reviewed  separately.  From  these  data  it  was 
concluded that no persistent platelet elevations were present. See discussion on clinical safety. 
Body weight and glycaemia in patients with DPN: Among patients who had baseline and termination 
weight measurements in the controlled studies, the mean change in weight was 1.6 kg for pregabalin-
treated patients and 0.3 kg for  placebo-treated patients. Therefore,  it was questioned whether  weight 
gain  during  treatment  with  pregabalin  would  compromise  the  diabetic  patient.  New  data  were 
provided with respect to weight gain and changes in HbA1C, changes in the use of diabetic medication 
over time, and the incidence of metabolic and/or cardiac events. Short-term treatment with pregabalin 
did not show any changes in HbA1C, changes in the use of diabetic medication different from placebo 
or  changes  in  the  incidence  rate  of  metabolic  or  cardiac  events.  Similarly,  long-term  pregabalin 
treatment was not associated with loss of glycaemic control in a two-year cohort of diabetic patients 
who  gained  weight.  However,  long-term  data  with  respect  to  the  possible  adjustment  to  diabetic 
medication  were  not  provided.  Although  the  incidence  of  metabolic  and/or  cardiac  events  in  the 
combined  controlled and uncontrolled studies was higher in  DPN patients  who gained  weight,  these 
patients  also  had  longer  mean  pregabalin  exposure  (approximately  500  days).  See  discussion  on 
clinical safety. 
Safety in special populations 
• 
The safety profile in elderly is not much different from the general profile of pregabalin, except for the 
occurrence  of  peripheral  oedema  (around  11%).  Peripheral  oedema  was,  irrespective  of  age,  not 
associated  with  hypertension.  In  the  elderly,  the  incidence  of  accidental  injury  was  associated  with 
dizziness. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
• 
The main reason for discontinuation of pregabalin was the occurrence of dizziness and/or somnolence 
especially in the higher dose range. 
37/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Discussion on clinical safety 
• 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  pregabalin  is  what  can  be  expected  from  the  mode  of  action  of  the 
compound.  Dizziness  and/or  somnolence  are  the  main  adverse  events  (about  30%  and  23% 
respectively).  These  events  did  not  resolve  by  the  end  of  double  blind  treatment  in  31%  and  45% 
respectively,  of  subjects,  experiencing  these  adverse  events..  Additionally,  the  following  adverse 
events were discussed: peripheral oedema, weight gain, decrease in platelets, visual field defects and, 
based on pre-clinical toxicological finding, haemangiosarcoma (in mice).  
Dizziness/somnolence 
The impact of dizziness and/or somnolence in elderly and in particular in regard of the high incidence 
of  accidental  injury  was  questioned.  After  review  of  the  data  both  during  short-  and  long-term 
treatment,  it  appeared  that  the  incidence  of  dizziness  is  not  increased  in  the  elderly.  However,  they 
appear more susceptible to the persistence of dizziness. They are also more at risk for the occurrence 
of accidental injury associated with dizziness. As a consequence, a warning has been recommended to 
state in the summary of product characteristics that pregabalin has been associated with dizziness and 
somnolence  which  could  increase  the  occurrence  of  accidental  injury  in  the  elderly  population.  The 
wording in the SPC being - Pregabalin treatment has been associated with dizziness and somnolence, 
which could  increase  the  occurrence  of accidental injury (fall) in the elderly population.   Therefore, 
patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are familiar with the potential effects of the 
medication. 
Peripheral oedema and weight gain 
Peripheral oedema and weight gain are notable findings. They are unexplained. Both raised concerns: 
peripheral oedema, which is predominantly found in the elderly for its possible relation with cardiac 
events, weight gain for patients with diabetes. 
After re-review of the data, both during short- and long-term treatment, peripheral oedema is regarded 
a  separate  finding  of  pregabalin,  and  not  primary  or  secondary  to  alterations  in  cardiovascular 
function.  No  consistent  temporal  relationship  of  hypertension  and  peripheral  oedema  was  observed 
and  a  clinically  meaningful  or  sustained  increases  in  measured  blood  pressure  in  patients  with 
peripheral oedema were not observed.  
Weight gain in the diabetic population was not different from the weight gain in the overall population 
treated with pregabalin. During short-term treatment, weight gain is not associated with an increase in 
HbA1C, which is the severity marker for diabetes. In a two-year cohort, long-term pregabalin treatment 
was  not  associated  with  loss  of  glycaemic  control  in  diabetic  patients  who  gained  weight. 
Nevertheless,  changes  in  anti-diabetic  medication  were  difficult  to  assess  in  this  cohort.  As  a 
consequence,  the  applicant’s  proposal  to  state  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics  that  some 
diabetic  patients  who  gain  weight  on  pregabalin  treatment  may  need  to  adjust  hypoglycaemic 
medications, has been accepted. 
Platelets and pre-clinical toxicology: haemangiosarcoma in mice 
During  long-term  exposure  to  pregabalin  (data  up  to  2-3  years),  a  change  in  platelet  numbers  is 
observed.  After  an  initial  decrease,  a  gradual  increase  in  platelet  counts  is  observed  beyond  the 
exposure time of one year. In view of the pre-clinical toxicological finding of haemangiosarcoma in 
mice, patients with increased platelet levels were reviewed separately. No persistency in the elevation 
of platelet count was reported. 
The  development  of  haemangiosarcoma  in  the  animal  studies  (mice)  is  thought  to  be  mediated  by 
platelet activation. The triggers behind the platelet activation have not been fully elucidated. It appears 
that the mechanism hypothesized is not present in the rat. The threshold of platelet activation leading 
to haemangiosarcoma transformation is a function of dose.  To address the issue of the human risk of 
tumour formation in relation to the pre-clinical findings of haemangiosarcoma, the applicant provided 
data on the threshold of platelet activation needed for tumour formation in mice and long-term human 
data of platelet morphology. Platelet activation in mice was seen at 5 times the human exposure after 1 
month  of  dosing:  with  no  consistent  effects  on  platelet  activation  were  observed  at  the  maximum 
human exposure. Having platelet data in man for up to 4 years of pregabalin exposure, the applicant 
concluded  that,  if  present,  any  abnormality  would  have  been  found  in  man.  The  data  are  however 
limited. Although the animal data do not raise such a concern as to preclude an approval and there is 
no evidence to suggest an associated risk to humans, it cannot be fully concluded that the mechanism 
of haemangiosarcoma formation does not pose any risk in man.  
38/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Long-term  exposure  data  in  man  are  limited  to  a small  number  of  subjects.  Therefore  it  was  agreed 
that  the  applicant  will  provide  additional  long-term  clinical  data  concerning  assessment  of  platelet 
morphology, a surrogate marker of platelet activation, in humans receiving pregabalin. 
Visual field abnormalities 
Visual field defect was a late finding during the use of vigabatrin and prompted the need for careful 
evaluations to screen possible effects on visual fields and visual acuity. In the clinical safety database 
(visual  field  testing  in  over  3500  patients  of  whom  nearly  700  patients  with  exposures  of  at  least  2 
years),  there  were  10  unexplained  cases  of  visual  field  defect  (0.3%).  The  exposure  time  varied 
between 42 and 939 days (median: 186 days) of treatment with pregabalin. In the majority of cases, a 
unilateral nasal visual field defect was observed. The MAH retested 4 out of the 10 unexplained cases; 
2 subjects had changes consistent with an artefact (false positive), one subject was normal and in the 
other case a pre-existing corneal defect explained the defect. The very low incidence of unexplained 
visual field defects, the lack of a specific pattern of defect, their variability after retesting and the size 
of the ‘visual fields database’ make it unlikely that pregabalin is a causal factor for visual field defects. 
As precautionary measure, visual system adverse events will be carefully assessed in periodic safety 
reports under a separate heading. 
the  Applicant’s  claim 
Safety in adolescents 
Neither efficacy nor safety was demonstrated in adolescents. The number of patients (n=10) was too 
small  and  consequently 
in  adolescents  has  been  withdrawn.  A 
neurotoxicological  study  in  juvenile  rats  (see  non-clinical  section)  stressed  the  need  for  special 
attention  to  the  effects  of  pregabalin  on  growth  and  (cognitive)  development  in  children  and 
adolescents.  Additional  non-clinical  studies  have  been  requested  to  investigate  reversibility  of 
reproductive  and  neurobehavioral/cognitive  effects.  Upon  request,  the  applicant  proposed  the 
following  paediatric  development  plan:  Pharmacokinetic  evaluation  in  lead-in  phases  to  the  efficacy 
and  safety  studies,  Efficacy  and  safety  studies  in  children  and  adolescents  (4-18  year-olds, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled add-on study of 12 week duration with a cognitive test 
battery as secondary endpoint), Efficacy and safety study in infants, toddlers and young children (>1 
month  to  <4  year-olds,  3-4  weeks  study  with  seizure  count  based  on  EEG  and/or  video-EEG 
monitoring)  and  Open-label  long-term  extension  of  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  Efficacy  and  safety 
studies  will  be  run  in  a  sequential  approach,  with  the  efficacy  and  safety  established  in  the  older 
paediatric age group prior to proceeding with the clinical study in the younger age group. Monitoring 
of  growth,  sexual  development,  cognitive  and  behavioural  assessments  were  planed  but  it  was 
questioned whether the number of patients and the duration of studies were sufficient. In conclusion, 
the proposed clinical development plan in children was acceptable. However, the study protocols and 
time frame in which these studies are implemented should be part of the post marketing commitment. 
The  applicant  agreed  to  undertake  a  long-term  observational  study  in  paediatric  patients  and 
committed to submit a protocol for such study to CPMP. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pregabalin  is  an  analogue  of  the  mammalian  neurotransmitter  gamma-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA). 
Although  its  precise  mechanism  of  action  is  still  unclear,  pregabalin,  decreases  central  neuronal 
excitability  by  binding  to  an  auxiliary  subunit  (α2-δ  protein)  of  a  voltage-gated  calcium  channel  on 
neurons in the central nervous system. 
39/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
In  conventional  safety  pharmacology  studies  in  animals,  pregabalin  was  well  tolerated  at  clinically 
relevant  doses.  In  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys  CNS  effects  were  observed, 
including  hypoactivity,  hyperactivity  and  ataxia.  Pregabalin  was  not  teratogenic  in  mice,  rats  or 
rabbits. Foetal toxicity in rats and rabbits occurred at exposures sufficiently above human exposure. In 
prenatal/postnatal  toxicity  studies,  pregabalin  induced  offspring  developmental  toxicity  in  rats  at 
exposures >2 times the maximum recommended human exposure. Therefore, pregabalin should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  benefit  to  the  mother  clearly  outweighs  the  potential  risk  to  the 
foetus. Pregabalin was not genotoxic based on results of a battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
Pregabalin  induces  haemangiosarcoma  in  mice.  This  apparently  has  an  epigenetic  origin.  The 
mechanism resulting in haemangiosarcoma formation has been investigated up to an acceptable extent. 
The  development  of  haemangiosarcoma  in  the  animal  studies  (mice)  is  thought  to  be  mediated  by 
platelet activation. The triggers behind the platelet activation have not been fully elucidated. It appears 
that the mechanism hypothesized is not present in the rat. The threshold of platelet activation leading 
to haemangiosarcoma transformation is a function of dose. These platelet changes were not present in 
rats  or  in  humans  based  on  short  term  and  limited  long  term  clinical  data.    There  is  no  evidence  to 
suggest an associated risk to humans.   
Long-term  exposure  data  in  man  are  limited  to  a small  number  of  subjects.  Therefore  it  was  agreed 
that the applicant would provide additional long-term clinical data concerning assessment of platelet 
morphology,  a  surrogate  marker  of  platelet  activation,  in  humans  receiving  pregabalin.  as  a  post-
approval commitment. 
Animal juvenile toxicity studies indicated an effect on CNS, growth and female reproductive function 
at clinically relevant exposures. Reversibility of effects has not been studied. Upon CPMP’s request in 
view of further paediatric development, the applicant agreed to conduct an additional study in juvenile 
rats  to  assess  reversibility  of  alterations  in  acoustic  startle  response  and  impaired  performance  in 
learning and memory as a post-approval commitment. 
Efficacy 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  pregabalin  are  uncomplicated.  Since  pregabalin  is  not  metabolised  and 
exclusively excreted in urine, patients with renal impairment require dose adjustments.   
To support the neuropathic pain claim, twelve randomised placebo controlled studies were submitted. 
Six studies investigating the diabetic neuropathy model and five studies investigated the postherpetic 
neuralgia  model.  One study investigated  both  models. Doses  ranged from  75 to  600  mg  daily given 
twice or three times daily. Study duration ranged from 5 to 13 weeks.  
To  support  the  claim  of  adjunctive  treatment  in  partial  seizures  with/without  generalised  seizures, 
three randomised placebo controlled add-on studies were submitted. The dose ranged from 50 to 600 
mg daily in similar dosing schedules as for the neuropathic pain. Study duration was 12 weeks. 
Efficacy  of  pregabalin  in  neuropathic  pain  has  been  demonstrated  in  two  models  of  peripheral 
neuropathic pain (diabetic polyneuropathy and postherpetic neuropathy), which supports an indication 
in  the  ‘treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain’.  Clinical  relevance  of  the  observed  effect  has  been 
substantiated  in  terms  of  responder  and  by  relating  the  change  in  pain  score  to  the  patient  global 
impression of change, in both pain models. Responder rates were higher in patients with somnolence 
as  compared  to  patients  without  somnolence..  However,  a  clinically  meaningful  effect  on  responder 
rates  is  evident  in  patients  who  do  not  experience  somnolence  as  well  in  patients  who  report 
somnolence across the neuropathic pain studies It was recommended to provide this information in the 
SPC in section 5.1. No definite conclusions on long-term efficacy in neuropathy can be drawn based 
upon  the  open  label  (extension)  studies.  However,  the  cohort  study  presented  supports    the 
maintenance of the effect and development of tolerance is less likely as the mean daily dose remained 
stable over time. Efficacy of TID seemed better than BID but the clinical relevance of this difference 
is questionable and the overall safety profile of pregabalin is in favour of the BID regimen. Therefore 
it  was  agreed  to  accept  both  BID  and  TID  to  give  the  physician  the  choice  of  the  best  regimen  for 
individual patients. 
Pregabalin is acceptable as  add-on treatment in epilepsy in  adults. The original claim in adolescents 
has  been  dropped.  Long-term  data  are  not  sufficient to establish  maintenance  of effect  but  this  does 
not  raise  a  concern  for  the  potential  risk  of  tolerance.  One  head  to  head  epilepsy  study  (-009)  was 
40/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
performed  and  showed  a  slightly  better  response  with  TID  as  compared  to  BID  dosing,  but  the 
observed difference in responder rate (5.9%) was not  considered clinically relevant. Therefore, as for 
neuropathic pain, it was agreed to accept both the BID and TID regimens to allow the physician the 
choice of the best regimen for individual patients. 
The applicant outlined a clinical developmental plan for the use of pregabalin in children/adolescents 
taking  into  account  the  observations  of  the  animal  juvenile  toxicity  studies.  Further  animal  studies 
have been requested before starting paediatric clinical development. The paediatric development was 
deemed  acceptable,  however,  timeframe  and  clinical  protocols  should  be  submitted  as  a  post 
marketing commitment. 
Safety 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  pregabalin  is  what  can  be  expected  from  the  mode  of  action  of  the 
compound. Dizziness and somnolence are the main adverse events (about 30% and 23% respectively). 
These  events  appear  persistent  in  31%  and  45%  respectively,  of  subjects,  experiencing  them. 
Additionally, peripheral oedema and weight gain are notable findings.  
Pregabalin  induces  hemangiosarcoma  in  mice.  This  apparently  has  an  epigenetic  mechanism.  The 
mechanism  resulting  in  the  hemangiosarcoma  formation  has  been  investigated  up  to  an  acceptable 
extent. The development of hemangiosarcoma in the animal studies (mice) is thought to be mediated 
by  platelet  activation.  The  trigger  behind  the  platelet  activation  have  not  been  fully  elucidated.  It 
appears  that  the  mechanism  hypothesized  is  not  present  in  rat.  The  threshold  of  platelet  activation 
leading  to  haemangiosarcoma  transformation  is  a  function  of  dose.  Even  if  the  risk  does  not  seem 
major, it cannot be fully concluded whether the mechanism of hemangiosarcoma formation does not 
pose  any  risk  in  man.  Long-term  exposure  data  in  man  are  limited  to  a  small  number  of  subjects. 
Whether platelet activation occurs in subjects with a long time use of pregabalin should be evaluated 
as part of a post marketing commitment. 
Long-term pregabalin treatment was not associated with loss of glycaemic control in diabetic patients 
gaining weight, although it cannot be excluded that a lack of glycaemic control has been compensated 
for  by  adaptations  to  the  anti-diabetic  medication  in  the  open  label  extension  studies.  The  SPC 
wording  proposed  by  the  applicant:  “In  accordance  with  current  clinical  practice,  some  diabetic 
patients  who  gain  weight  on  pregabalin  treatment  may  need  to  adjust  hypoglycaemic  medications.” 
resolves the issue. 
The potential of pregabalin for developing visual field defects has been sufficiently studied. The very 
low incidence of unexplained  visual field  defects,  the lack  of a  specific  pattern  of these  defects, the 
variability of these defects after retesting and the size of the ‘visual field database’ makes it unlikely 
that  pregabalin  is  a  causal  factor  for  developing  visual  field  defects.  In  addition,  the  applicant 
committed to assess all visual adverse events under a separate heading in periodic safety reports.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Pregabalin is an analogue of the mammalian neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the CPMP opinion there were some outstanding minor quality issues which had no impact on 
the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up 
measures within an agreed timeframe, and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
Efficacy and safety of pregabalin in peripheral neuropathic pain in adults has been demonstrated both 
in  diabetic  polyneuropathy  and  postherpetic  neuropathy.  Effects  in  patients  without  somnolence  are 
considered  clinically  meaningful  even  if  the  effect  appears  greater  in  patients  with  somnolence. 
Efficacy  and  safety  of  pregabalin  as  an  adjunct  to  other  anti-epileptic  agents  in  adults  with  partial 
epilepsy  has  been  demonstrated.  Long-term  data  on  efficacy  are  limited  but  this  does  not  raise  a 
concern for the potential risk of tolerance. Dizziness and somnolence are the main adverse events. The 
adverse  event  profile  for  BID  and  TID  regimens  shortly  after  initiation  of  treatment  did  not  differ 
between  the  dosing  schedules.  Both  schedules  are  equally  tolerated,  also  in  the  elderly.  Efficacy 
results  of  TID  seemed  better  than  BID  but  the  clinical  relevance  of  this  difference  is  questionable. 
41/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Therefore,  both  the  BID  and  TID  regimens  have  been  approved  which  will  allow  physicians  the 
choice of the best regimen for individual patients. 
Two-year carcinogenicity studies with pregabalin were conducted in rats and mice. No tumours were 
observed in rats at exposures up to 24 times the mean human exposure at the maximum recommended 
clinical  dose  of  600 mg/day.  In  mice,  no  increased  incidence  of  tumours  was  found  at  exposures 
similar to the mean human exposure, but an increased incidence of haemangiosarcoma was observed 
at  higher  exposures.  The  non-genotoxic  mechanism  of  pregabalin-induced  tumour  formation  is  not 
fully  characterised;  however,  pregabalin-induced  platelet  changes  associated  with  endothelial  cell 
proliferation and tumour formation in mice are not present in rats or in humans, based on the available 
data. Based on this mechanistic approach there is no evidence to suggest an associated risk to man . 
Long-term data in humans are limited and a risk management programme to follow a potential risk of 
tumour in man may not provide relevant information. Therefore it was agreed that the applicant will 
provide  additional  long-term  clinical  data  concerning  the  assessment  of  platelet  morphology,  a 
surrogate  marker  of  platelet  activation,  in  humans  receiving  pregabalin  as  a  post  approval 
commitment. 
Animal juvenile toxicity studies indicated an effect on CNS function (hyperactivity and bruxism) and 
growth  and  female  reproductive  function  at  clinically  relevant  exposures.  Reversibility  of  some  of 
these effects will have to be assessed prior to paediatric development. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Lyrica  in  the  treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in  adults  and  as 
adjunctive  therapy  in  adults  with  partial  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
42/42         
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
