London, 07 September 2006 
Product name: LYRICA 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000546/II/0007 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1. 
Introduction 
The  active  substance,  pregabalin,  is  an  analogue  of  the  mammalian  neurotransmitter  gamma-
aminobutyric acid (GABA). However, pregabalin does not mediate its effects specifically though an 
effect  upon  GABA-ergic  transmission.  It  is  claimed  that  the  mechanism  of  action  of  pregabalin  is 
binding to an auxiliary subunit (α2-δ protein) of voltage-gated calcium channels in the central nervous 
system, potently displacing [3H]-gabapentin. 
On  6  July  2004,  a  Commission  Decision  was  granted  for  Lyrica  (pregabalin)  for  the  treatment  of 
peripheral neuropathic pain and for partial seizures (as adjunctive therapy) in adults. The Marketing 
Authorisation Holder (MAH) (Pfizer Ltd.) submitted on 15 July 2005 an application for the following 
extension of indication: “treatment of Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults” that received a 
positive opinion on 26 January 2006. 
The  MAH  submitted  on  13  January  2006  an  application  for  Lyrica  to  add  the  indication  central 
neuropathic  pain  in  adults  (procedure  EMEA/H/C/H/C/546/II/07).  The  dose  recommended  ranges 
from 150 to 600 mg per day divided over two or three doses. This dose recommendation is the same as 
for peripheral neuropathic pain.  
Neuropathic  pain  is  defined  as  “Pain  initiated  or  caused  by  a  primary  lesion  or  dysfunction  in  the 
nervous system”. Neuropathic pains are divided into peripheral neuropathic pain due to lesion of the 
peripheral nervous system and central pain following lesions of the central nervous system.   
In  accordance  to  the  guideline  on  neuropathic  pain,  efficacy  in  central  neuropathic  pain  has  to  be 
shown separately from efficacy in peripheral neuropathic pain. For the claim “peripheral neuropathic 
pain”, the efficacy of the tested drug should be shown in more than one clinical situation of peripheral 
neuropathic  pain  (e.g.  post  herpetic  neuralgia,  painful  diabetic  neuropathy).  For  the  claim  central 
neuropathic  pain  efficacy  should  be  shown  in  a  central  pain  model.  The  model  however,  should  be 
justified.  If  for  both  peripheral  and  central  neuropathic  pain  efficacy  is  demonstrated,  the  indication 
“general neuropathic pain” may be given. 
Spinal cord injury may be considered a model for evaluating central neuropathic pain. However, the 
initial justification of this model by the MAH was poor and therefore subject to requests for additional 
information.  The  answers  of  the  MAH  were  satisfactory.  Hence  the  study,  as  performed,  evaluates 
central neuropathic pain. 
As part of this variation, the MAH has also submitted a new environmental risk assessment (ERA). 
2. 
Non clinical aspects 
The  relevant  pharmacological  and  toxicological  aspects  related  to  pregabalin  development  were 
addressed in previous assessments of the Lyrica file, indicated for epilepsy and peripheral neuropathic 
pain.  The  relevant  pharmacodynamic  aspects  specific  for  the  indication  requested  in  the  current 
variation is covered by the clinical information. No further non-clinical data is therefore required.  
2.1  Pharmacology 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted by the MAH; the non-clinical overview has not been 
updated.  
2/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  original  marketing  application,  the  following  results  were  reported  that  might  be  relevant  to 
central neuropathic pain:  
- 
- 
- 
Pregabalin  given  by  intraperitoneal  (i.p.)  or  intrathecal  injection  dose-dependently  decreased 
thermal  hyperalgesia  induced  by  intrathecal  injection  of  substance  P  and/or  N-methyl-D-
aspartate (NMDA). 
The ED50 values for i.p. and intrathecal administration of substance P were approximately 10 
mg/kg and 10 µg/rat, respectively.  
Pregabalin at 30 mg/kg i.p. also prevented hyperalgesia induced by NMDA.  
These results suggest pregabalin had a pharmacologic action relevant for analgesia directly on tissues 
of the spinal cord. 
In  view  of  existing  clinical  data  demonstrating  efficacy  for  central  neuropathic  pain,  the  lack  of 
additional non-clinical is acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.2  Environmental risk assessment 
The Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) provided does not suggest a risk to the environment posed 
by Lyrica. However, the base set requires an early life stage study in fish, which will be conducted as a 
follow-up  measure.  Once  these  data  are  available,  the  preliminary  PEC/PNEC  will  be  re-evaluated.  
Also,  as  a  second  follow-up  measure,  the  MAH  will  investigate  the  viability  of  developing  an 
analytical method with a lower LOQ, as appropriate. Pregabalin (CAS Number: 148553-50-8) has a 
molar  mass  of  159,  and  is  water  soluble  at  20°C  and  pH  7.4  at  32  mg/L.  The  octanol-water 
partitioncoefficient  logKow  is  -1.35  at  pH  7.4  and  pregabalin  is  hence  not  classified  as  persistent, 
bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT). The dissociation constants (pKa) are 4.2 for the carboxilyc acid, and 
10.6 for the amine moiety of the molecule. For analytiacl verification in water a method using LC-MS-
MS  is  available,  the  limit  of  quantification  is  54  µg/L.  The  partition  coefficient  between  water  and 
sludge is determined at 13.3 L/kg (1/n 0.78); the corresponding partition coefficient between water and 
organic  carbon  is  42  L/kg.  Pregabalin  is  not  readily  biodegradable  and  in  a  sludge  die-away  test 
primary  degradation  amounted  to  18%  in  21  days,  whereby  1.7%  mineralisation  occurred.  The 
standard acute NOEC, EC50 and LC50 for algae (P. subcapitata), daphnids (D. magna) and fish (O. 
mykiss) were all above water solubility (>32 mg/L). The acute EC50 of the N-acetylated pregabalin 
metabolite amounted to >600 mg/L. The 7-days NOEC for reproduction in daphnids (C. dubia) was 
below the lowest concentration tested, 0.46 mg/L. The early life stage test in fish was lacking and will 
be conducted as a follow-up measure. The EC50 in activated sludge is >0.1 mg/L; and the MIC in five 
microbial  species  of  algae,  bacteria  and  fungi  (A.  niger,  T.  viride,  Nostoc  spp.  B.  subtilis,  C. 
perfringens)is 1000 mg/L. 
3. - Clinical aspects 
The MAH provided a GCP statement in the original variation dossier. 
3.1 - Clinical pharmacology  
Not applicable.  
3.2 - Clinical efficacy  
- 
Main study(ies) 
One  pivotal  study  (Study 125)  was  submitted:  study  125  is  a  randomised  placebo  controlled  trial  in 
central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury. The trial lasted 12 weeks. 
3/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The design features of study 125 are summarised in the table below. 
Subjects  
Subjects with 
central 
neuropathic pain 
due to spinal cord 
injury  
Study  
Study 125 
Efficacy 
study  
2002-2004 
Australia  
Design /Procedure 
RD MC (8) DB PC 
PA  
Study arms  
Pregabalin (n= 70) 
Placebo     (n= 67) 
Baseline    1 week 
Titration    3 weeks 
Fixed dose 9 weeks  
TitrationA
Week 1  
150  mg/day 
Week 2  
300  mg/day 
Week 3  
600  mg/day  
Endpoints  
Primary:  
Endpoint mean pain 
score 
“Key” secondary: 
 - Pain sleep 
interference score 
- MOS sleep score 
- SF-MPQ VAS score  
- HADS anxiety score 
- PGIC score. 
Other secondary :   
- Weekly pain score 
- SF-MPQ -PPI  
Safety: AEs 
A Titration was up to response, intolerance or maximal dose allowed i.e. 300 mg BID. 
Legend: Db: Double–blind, HADS: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, MOS:Medical Outcome Sleep scale, 
MC:  Multi-centre,  PA:  parallel  group  design,  PC:  Placebo-controlled,  PGIC:  Patient’s  Global  Impression  of 
Change, SF-MPQ: Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire. 
included  suffered  from  central  neuropathic  pain  due 
The  patients 
(paraplegia/tetraplegia).  
Main  inclusion  criteria  were  the  presence  of  spinal  cord  injury  stabilized  for  at  least  6  months, 
presence  of  chronic  neuropathic  pain  (i.e.  the  pain  should  be  persistent  for  3  months  or  fluctuating 
with  remissions/relapses  for  at  least  6  months)  and  a  pain  score  >  40  mm  on  the  SF-MPQ–VAS  at 
baseline.  
to  spinal  cord 
injury 
Main exclusion criteria were patients with severe pain due to other causes that cannot be distinguished 
from central neuropathic pain and patients who likely will be in need for treatment during the study 
period with drugs not permitted by the study protocol.  
Concurrent  co-medication  needed  (e.g.  tricyclic  antidepressants,  benzodiapines)  had  to  be  kept 
constant during the study and should not be initiated during the study.  
- 
Methods 
The pain was assessed by means of an 11-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (= no pain) to 10 (= worst 
possible pain). The pain over the last 24 hours at awakening was daily scored by patient.  
The primary efficacy variable was the weekly mean pain score at endpoint defined as the mean of the 
last  seven  post-randomization  entries  of  the  daily  pain  diary  while  on  study  drug  including  the  day 
after the last day of dosing.  
Efficacy  analyses  was  based  upon  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  defined  as  all  randomized 
patients  who  took  at  least  one  dose  of  study  medication  and  had  at  least  one  post-randomization 
efficacy assessment on any efficacy scale.  
The analytical method was ANCOVA controlling for study centre and adjusting for weekly mean pain 
score at baseline.  
4/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Results 
The  main  results  are  presented  in  the  table  below.  Baseline  features  were  homogenously  distributed 
over the study arms except for the use of concurrent medication. However, concurrent medication was 
kept  constant  during  the  study  and  the  baseline  pain  score  between  the  study  arms  did  not  differ. 
Moreover, the effect size did not change when adjusted for the use of concurrent medication. 
Main  results study 125  
ncompleted  (% withdrawal) 
n Wthdraw    LOF / AE/ / other
Dose pathways  
150  mg/d 
150 -> 300 mg /d 
150 -> 300 -> 600 mg /d 
150 -> 300 -> 150 mg /d 
150 -> 300 -> 600 ->300 mg/d 
Placebo 
Pregabalin 
Treatment Comparisons 
Difference 
95% CI 
p-valuec
n ITT
67 
37 (45%) 
20 / 9 / 1 
69 
49 (30%) 
5 / 15 / 1 
  6.0% 
  6.0% 
85.1% 
  0.0% 
  3.0% 
  7.1% 
15.7% 
  4.3% 
55.7% 
17.1% 
Mean daily dose fixed period  
564 mg 
460  mg  
Concomitant medication 
Baclofen 
Benzodiazepines  
Tricyclic anti-depressants 
Analgetics & antipyretics 
Concurrent pain medication  
Among which:                                . 
     Paracetamol  
Paracetamol + codeine 
Morphine  
Amytriptyline 
Tramadol 
37.3% 
37.3% 
17.9% 
43.3% 
68.7% 
32.8% 
10.4% 
11.9% 
  6.0% 
10.4% 
54.3% 
40.0% 
34.3% 
34.3% 
75.7% 
30.0% 
   4.3% 
  8.6% 
17.0% 
10.0% 
PAIN SCORE  
Mean at baseline  
Mean at endpoint 
Change A
RESPONDERSB
Improvement ≥ 30% 
6.7 
6.2 
    -0.43 
6.5 
4.7 
      -1.97 
-1.53  
0.92 ; 2.15   
p< 0.001 
16.4% 
42.0% 
25.6% 
10.9% ;  40.3%  
p=0.001 
Improvement ≥ 50% 
    7.5% 
21.7% 
14.3% 
2.7% ; 25.9% 
p=0.019 
EFFECT OF SOMNOLENCE  
Patients without somnolence  
Patients with somnolence  
Mean pain score at endpoint  
Patients without somnolence  
Patients with somnolence  
30% Responders  
Patients without somnolence  
Patients with somnolence 
61 
 6 
6.1 
6.3 
40 
29 
5.0 
4.7 
1.04  No p values, reported as significant 
1.56  No p-values; reported not significant 
14.8% 
33.3% 
40.0% 
44.8% 
No p-values given; Reported as significant 
No p-values reported as not significant 
50% Responders  
Patients without somnolence  
Patients with somnolence at any  
8.2% 
0.0% 
20.0% 
24.1% 
No p-values, reported as not significant. 
5/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CGI-respondersB
Very much & Much improved  
EFFECT of CO-
MEDICATIONC
Endpoint adjusted for  
6.0% 
35% 
30.0% 
17.3% ; 42.7% 
p<0.001 
All pain medication  
TCAs 
Opiates  
Anti-epileptics agents  
6.1 
6.1 
6.2 
6.5 
4.6 
4.6 
4.8 
4.9 
1.54 
1.51 
1.45 
1.55 
0.93 ; 2.15 
0.88 ; 2.14 
0.82 ; 2.07 
0.93 ; 2.17 
p < 0.001 
p < 0.001 
p < 0.001 
p < 0.001 
ITT population, ANCOVA with study centre and  baseline pain score as covariates, SE = Standard Error; CI = Confidence Interval 
A Primary endpoint  
BDifference in responder rated and confidence interval 
CAncillary analysis .   
- 
The open label extension phase of study 125 (study 202): 
One  hundred  and  four  patients  from  the  controlled  study  (study  125)  entered  the  open-label  study 
(study  202).  As  study  202  is  still  on-going,  interim  safety  data  from  this  study  is  available  and 
provided in the variation application. 
3.3 - Clinical safety 
Safety  data  incorporated  the  data  of  study  125  and  the  open  label  extension  phase  of  study  125 
(labelled as study 202). The occurrence of the adverse events (AEs) is presented in table below.  
Study 202 & 125: overview of the AEs  
Study 125 
Study 202 
Pregabalin  Placebo 
Pregabalin 
Treatment 
Comparisons 
Median exposure days (range) 
Median dose mg/day (range) 
104 
- 
- 
67 
82   
(5-98) 
600  
(265; 600) 
70 
83  (2-103) 
582 
 (37.5 ; 600) 
104 
67 
70 
*  Rd  >  5% 
**  Rd> 
10% 
#  RR > 2 
##  RR > 
4 
nsafety  
nsafety  
Overall 
Any AEs  
Any related AEs 
Deaths  
Serious AEs  
Serious AEs –treatment related  
Severe AEs 
Discontinuation due to AEs 
Among which: 
Asthenia 
Oedema 
Peripheral Oedema 
Somnolence 
Hypervolemia 
Thrombocytopenia  
Euphoria  
Weight gain 
100%- 
- 
0.9% 
39.5% 
5.9% 
- 
14.4% 
1.9% 
1.0% 
1.0% 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.0% 
74.6% 
49.3% 
0.0% 
4.5% 
11.9% 
13.4% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
3.0% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
- 
** 
** 
* 
* 
95.7% 
82.9% 
0.0 
7.1% 
18.6% 
21.4% 
4.3% 
5.7% 
0.0% 
5.7% 
1.4% 
1.4% 
1.4% 
- 
Doses reduction/ Temporary Disc. 
10.4% 
30.0% 
6/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most common AEs > 5% 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Asthenia 
Dry mouth 
Constipation 
Oedema 
Amnesia 
Headache 
Peripheral  edema 
Amblyopia 
Infection 
Myasthenia 
Thinking abnormal 
Accidental injury 
Diarrhea 
Paresthesia 
Urinary incontinence 
Urinary tract infection 
Nausea 
Hypertonia 
Pain 
Insomnia 
Anxiety 
Skin Ulcer 
Abdominal pain 
Rash 
Chest pain 
CPK increased 
Neoplasm  
Pharyngitis 
** 
** 
* 
** 
* 
** 
* 
* 
* 
# 
# 
# 
## 
# 
# 
# 
# 
# 
# 
26.9% 
24.0% 
17.3% 
14.4% 
18.3% 
9.6% 
12.5% 
10.6% 
7.7% 
17.3% 
7.7% 
12.5% 
24.0% 
6.7% 
-- 
-- 
24.0% 
17.3% 
12.5% 
12.5% 
9.6% 
8.7% 
8.7% 
7.7% 
7.7% 
6.7% 
6.7% 
5.8% 
5.8% 
9.0% 
9.0% 
6.0% 
3.0% 
6.0% 
0.0% 
3.0% 
19.4% 
6.0% 
3.0% 
6.0% 
4.5% 
1.5% 
9.0% 
9.0% 
1.5% 
3.0% 
10.4% 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
41.4% 
24.3% 
15.7% 
15.7% 
12.9% 
12.9% 
10.0% 
10.0% 
10.0% 
8.6% 
8.6% 
8.6% 
8.6% 
5.7% 
5.7% 
5.7% 
5.7% 
5.7% 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Serious adverse events and deaths in studies 125 and 202 
In  study  125,  3  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  and  5  subjects  in  the  pregabalin  group  experienced  a 
serious  adverse  event.  In  the  pregabalin  arm  this  concerned  fecal  impaction,  hypervolemia-oedema-
thrombocytopenia,  urinary  tract  infection  and  a  withdrawal  syndrome.  The  hypervolemia-oedema-
thrombocytopenia  (probably  due  to  a  severe  infection)  and  the  withdrawal  syndrome  (increased 
spasticity spastic ataxia) were considered associated with medication. 
In  study  202  the  most  commonly  reported  serious  adverse  event  concerned  accidental  injury 
(9 patients).  In  3  subjects  the  fracture  was  in  association  with  a  fall.  Serious  adverse  events  were 
considered  treatment-related  in  6 patients  (5.8%);  and  included  constipation,  delirium,  hypertonia, 
manic depressive reaction, psychosis, stupor and urinary tract infection.   
One patient in study 202 died of oesophageal cancer that was considered unrelated to treatment.  
Laboratory findings 
No clinical relevant changes in clinically laboratory variables were observed.  
3.4 – Discussions 
The  efficacy  of  pregabalin  in  the  treatment  of  central  neuropathic  pain  has  studied  patients  with 
neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury (study 125).  
Spinal cord injury might be accepted as a pain model evaluating central neuropathic pain. The injury 
causes disinhibition of dorsal horn neurons, thus the pain is of central origin. In addition, although as 
part of a retrospective review of data collected at enrollment, in about 95% of the subjects in study 125 
the  pain  was  localised  at  at  least  one  dermatome  below  the  level  of  the  lesion.  Further  the  pain 
7/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics are congruent with what is expected for neuropathic pain.  Hence it may be concluded 
that spinal cord injury is acceptable as a model for central neuropathic pain.  
However, the CHMP is of the opinion that the justification of spinal cord injury as model for central 
neuropathic  pain  by  the  MAH  is  rather  poor  in  the  variation  submission.  In  the  dossier  submitted, 
patients  enrolled  must  have  met  IASP  (International  Association  for  the  Study  of  Pain)  criteria  for 
central  neuropathic  pain  and,  if  more  than  one  type  of  pain  was  present,  must  have  been  able  to 
differentiate  between  pain  types.  The  patients  were  instructed  to  rate  only  their  central  neuropathic 
pain on a daily basis using diaries.  Although central neurophatic pain is a key feature of spinal cord 
injury,  subjects  may  also  suffer  from  peripheral  neurophatic  pain  and/or  nociceptive  pain  due  to  for 
instance,  muscle  spasms.  As  the  pain  was  assessed  on  global  pain  scale  it  remains  to  be  settled  to 
which degree effect size observed can be attributed to an improvement in central neuropathic pain.  
The  design  and  performance  of  study  125  allow  a  valid  conclusion  with  respect  to  the  efficacy  in 
central neuropathic pain as the model is sufficiently justified.  It is noted here that subjects with severe 
pain  due  to  other  causes  that  cannot  be  distinguished  from  central  neuropathic  pain  were  excluded. 
The  criteria  for  this  distinction  however  were  not  entirely  clarified  to  the  CHMP  in  the  variation 
dossier. 
The observed effect size in terms of points improvement in pain score from baseline in the study 125 
is  in  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  observed  in  the  studies  in  peripheral  neuropathic  pain:  in  the 
peripheral neuropathy studies the difference between placebo and pregabalin 600 mg/daily was -1.47 
points. 
Responder  rates  (50%  responders)  were  smaller  in  the  study  125  compared  to  the  peripheral 
neuropathy studies, but the difference in responder  rates was the same: in the peripheral neuropathy 
studies the 50% responder rate was 35% for pregabalin and 18% for placebo. This was 22% and 8 % 
respectively in the study 125. Secondary analyses / results of secondary endpoints confirm the main 
effect. 
Although  the  use  of  concurrent  medication  is  unequally  distributed  over  the  study  arms,  this  is  not 
considered to have an impact on the evaluation of efficacy. Concurrent medication had to be stable at 
entry and was kept constant during the study, the difference in use of concurrent medication did not 
result in differences in baseline pain score.  However, the frequent and relative large imbalances in co-
medication  over  the  treatment  arms  warrant  a  concern  regarding  the  randomisation  process.  In 
addition, whether concurrent co-medication indeed remained stable should be verifiable.  
Qualitatively the safety profile of pregabalin in central neuropathic pain is similar to that observed in 
the peripheral neuropathic pain studies. However, quantitatively the incidence of adverse events and 
serious  adverse  events  is  higher  as  compared  to  the  studies  in  peripheral  neuropathy.  The  most 
commonly  reported  adverse  events  in  pregabalin-treated  patients  in  central  neuropathic  pain  were 
somnolence and dizziness that is consistent with the peripheral neuropathy studies. The incidence of 
somnolence  was  higher  in  central  neuropathic  pain  (40%)  compared  to  the  peripheral  neuropathy 
studies  (23%).  This  is  attributed  to  an  underlying  additive  effect  of  the  concomitant  agents  e.g. 
baclofen  and  benzodiazepines  was  given  concomitantly  in  50%  and  40%  of  the  patients  receiving 
pregabalin.  
As  in  spinal  cord  injury,  pregabalin  will  often  be  given  in  combination  with  anti-spastic  agents,  the 
benefit/risk profile of pregabalin in central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury is different from 
that of peripheral neuropathic pain. Given the reason stated above, this safety profile can be accepted.  
Based on the above discussions, the efficacy of pregabalin in a model for central neuropathic pain, i.e. 
spinal  cord  injury  was  demonstrated.  The  effect  size  was  in  the  same  order  of  magnitude  as  in 
peripheral  neuropathy.  The  clinical  relevance  of  the  observed  effect  is  reflected  in  the  difference  in 
50% responder rates and proportion of CGI –responders. In addition, the differential drop-out forms an 
argument  for  efficacy  as  well  as  a  manageable  safety  in  favour  of  the  product,  i.e.  if  an  effect  is 
observed, patients continue and if safety is an issue, patients will stop.  
8/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of note spinal cord injury is just a model for central neuropathic pain. In accordance to the guidance 
on  neuropathic  pain,  if  efficacy  is  proven  in  a  model  of  central  neuropathic  pain  this  may  be 
extrapolated to central neuropathic pain due to other causes. The difference in safety profile between 
peripheral and central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury (especially somnolence) is attributed 
by the CHMP to the interaction with the co-medication needed for the underlying condition rather than 
an intrinsic property of the product. Thus the benefit/risk can be expected to be different for central 
neuropathic pain due to other causes.  
Considering  all  this,  the  indication  central  neuropathic  pain  for  pregabalin  is  approvable.  There  are 
however  concerns  identified  for  this  indication  with  regard  to  the  clinical  efficacy,  and  a  warning 
concerning an overall increased risk of adverse events when used in subjects with spinal cord injury 
was considered to incorporate into the product information.  
In view of the above the CHMP adopted a RSI, for which the first question is mentioned below: 
Spinal cord injury as model for central neuropathic pain should be justified further.   
1 - The justification presented so far was insufficient. 
2 - In spinal cord injury, central and peripheral neuropathic pain often co-exist. It should be clear that 
the  observed  effect  of  pregabalin  on  the  global  pain  scale  is  mainly  due  to  an  effect  on  central 
neuropathic pain and not due to an effect on peripheral pain.  
3 - In spinal cord injury neuropathic pain and nociceptive pain often co-exist. It should be clear that 
the observed effect of pregabalin is mainly due to an effect on central neuropathic pain and not due to 
an effect on nociceptive pain.  
To  the  justification  of  the  spinal  cord  injury  as  model  for  central  neuropathic  pain,  the  MAH 
acknowledges and recognizes that the aetiologies and types of pain following spinal cord injury may 
be multiple. The study 125 utilised the clinical expertise of the investigators to enrolling patients with 
central neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury as required by the study protocol. Data on pain 
localization also strongly support that patients with central neuropathic pain were enrolled. The MAH 
concludes  that  the  data  from  the  study  125  clearly  support  a  statistically  significant  benefit  of 
pregabalin in the treatment of central neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury. 
It is agreed by the CHMP that below level pain in spinal cord injury is centrally mediated. In complete 
spinal  cord  injuries  pain  sensations  below  the  level  of  injury  cannot  be  mediated  by  the  sensory 
nerves.  The  peripheral  nociceptive  fibres  are  disconnected  from  dorsal  horn  neurons  and/or 
spinothalamic processes results in deafferentation below the level of the lesion.  
The MAH acknowledges, although implicitly, the coexistence of nociceptive, peripheral neuropathic 
and central neuropathic pain in spinal cord injury.  
Indeed  nociceptive  pain  can  not  be  felt  in  areas  where  the  normal  sensation  has  disappeared.  It  is 
agreed  that  an  effect  of  pregabalin  on  nociceptive  pain  above  lesion  level,  if  present,  is  unlikely  as 
pregabalin has not shown efficacy in nociceptive pain. Another argument put forward by the CHMP is 
that the effect size of pregabalin did not change when corrected for use of concurrent medication for 
nociceptive pain. Of note, although the arguments above are considered sufficient, they form indirect 
arguments.  If  study  125  had  included  an  additional NSAID  (Non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs) 
arm the distinction between an effect of nociceptive and neuropathic pain could have been addressed 
more directly.  
The  differentiation  between  an  effect  on  central  and  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  is  more  difficult  as 
pregabalin is supposed to have an effect on both.  
Patients  included  in  study  125  fulfilled  the  IASP  (International  Association  for  the  Study  of  Pain) 
criteria  of  central  pain  although  the  final  judgment  was  based  on  the  clinical  expertise  of  the 
investigator.  The  verification  of  the  diagnosis  showed  that  the  vast  majority  of  subjects  had  pain 
occurring  at  least  one  dermatomal  level  below  the  most  caudal  aspect  of  the  spinal  cord  injury. 
However,  the  latter  argument  is  not  that  strong  as  this  was  a  retrospective  verification  of  a  priori 
sampled clinical data.  
9/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  is  agreed  that  clinically  at-level  pain,  more  likely  representing  peripheral  neuropathic  pain,  can 
clearly  be  distinguished  from  the  regional  distribution  of  pain  required  by  the  IASP  definition  of  
central neuropathic pain.  
The CHMP considers the justification of the MAH acceptable: pain perception below the functional 
level of spinal cord injury cannot be mediated by the sensory nerves, thus must be of central origin.  
The  MAH  further  verified  that  the  presence  of  central  pain  by querying  the  investigators  to  refer  to 
source documentation collected at the  time of subject enrolment after the study was completed. The 
CHMP is of the opinion this is an unusual practice because the ascertainment of the clinical status is 
critical  at  enrolment,  not  after.    The  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  explain  this  procedure  and  the 
motives for this. 
The MAH agrees that ascertainment of the clinical status and all inclusion and exclusion criteria are 
critical at the time of patient enrolment and this was, in fact, the procedure followed within this study. 
Patients with central neuropathic pain were enrolled based on the clinical expertise of the investigators 
and  the  study  protocol  requirements.    Documentation  regarding  the  specifics  of  pain  localization  in 
relationship to the injury were recorded in source documents rather than in case report forms and were, 
therefore, not included in the study database.  The MAH agrees that this retrospective approach was 
not  ideal; however,  these  data  on  central  pain  localization  were  collected  from  source  documents  as 
additional  evidence  to  support  the  investigator  diagnosis.    These  data  were  provided  for  review 
purposes to supplement the other data provided. The MAH confirmed that no other data were collected 
in this retrospective fashion. 
As noted in the Common Technical Document (CTD), the response further demonstrated that the vast 
majority  of  subjects  did  report  pain  in  a  distribution  inferior  to  the  level  of  the  spinal  cord  injury 
indicating the presence of central neuropathic pain.   
Based on the MAH’s response the CHMP is of the opinion that the purpose of this exercise is still not 
clear. Apparently it was felt that a verification of diagnosis was needed which implies that there were 
uncertainties.  Though  the  MAH  collected  the  information  based  on  an  opinion  that  the  rapporteur 
required  additional  verification  of  the  lesion  level  relative  to  the  distribution  of  pain,  the  CHMP 
considers that the retrospective verification of the presence of central pain is of limited value as it can 
not  be  excluded  that  the  judgment  of  data  was  coloured  despite  the  fact  that  the  data  have  been 
sampled prospectively.  
Nevertheless these were the data provided by the MAH: pain localized to at least 1 dermatome below 
the  level  of  the  lesion  was  confirmed  in  the  majority  of  the  population,  and  imaging  evidence  of  a 
lesion corresponding to the location of pain was confirmed for 75.9% of the population. Data collected 
with respect to patients with lesions above L2 indicate that 97.7% had central pain. 
The CHMP considers that it would have been more convincing if not alone central pain was verified 
but  also  the  presence  of  at  level  pain  and  nociceptive  pain  i.e.  how  many  subjects  had  concomitant 
pain from other origin that could have polluted the pain assessments by patients. Preferably this could 
have  been  blinded  e.g.  the  so-called  source  documentation  could  have  been  stripped  from  all 
information referring, hinting at the treatment received.  
The CHMP considers that the issue is not fully resolved in view of the MAH’s response, and therefore 
requested the MAH to confirm that the pain targeted concerned dominantly central neuropathic pain 
and to clarify if the pain evaluated was only the central neuropathic pain or if the evaluation was made 
on global pain. 
The MAH highlighted in their response the two following key inclusion and exclusion criteria from 
the study: 
10/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
2. 
Subjects were required to meet IASP criteria for central NeP.  
Subjects with multiple types of pain, i.e., nociceptive and central neuropathic pains, could not 
be randomized into the study if they could not reliably differentiate between their various types 
of pain.  
Moreover, the MAH stated that during the conduct of the study, subjects were instructed, as described 
in the study report, to rate their central neuropathic pain upon awakening each day. 
Therefore, the MAH is confident that, based on the protocol inclusion/exclusion criteria, expertise and 
experience  of  the  clinician  investigators  involved  in  the  study,  and  screening  for  patients  able  to 
clearly  identify  and  rate  only  their  central  neuropathic  pain,  even  if  multiple  pain  types  existed,  the 
subjects  and  investigators  dominantly  rated  only  their  central  neuropathic  pain.  The  MAH  is  of  the 
opinion that confounding of pain reporting by the presence of nociceptive pain would be minimized. 
The  MAH  has  performed  several  sensitivity  analyses  including  the  exclusion  of  patients  who 
conservatively  may  have  had  a  pre-dominance  of  at-lesion-level  pain  and  of  patients  with  complete 
and incomplete neurological spinal cord injury lesions. The MAH provided results of these analyses. 
It is reinforced by the MAH that the subjects rated their central neuropathic pain upon awakening each 
day. 
In  view  of  the  MAH’s  analyses,  it  is  shown  that  the  first  sensitivity  analysis performed  revealed  no 
large differences in effect size between the overall population and the population excluding subjects 
that might, only in the worst case scenario, have dominantly peripheral neuropathic pain. In the second 
sensitivity analysis performed, no large difference in effect size was observed between subjects with 
complete  and  incomplete  spinal  cord  lesions.  The  second  sensitivity  analysis  forms  a  supportive 
argument for an effect on central neuropathic pain. However, the inclusion and exclusion criteria form 
a guarantee that most patients indeed suffered dominantly from central neuropathic pain. Whether the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria was strictly adhered to is a matter of confidence in the trial. There are 
no  arguments  that  this  is  not  the  case.  Therefore  the  CHMP  considers  the  MAH’s  response  as 
acceptable and the issue as solved. 
In view of the MAH’s response to the fisrt RSI the CHMP also requested the MAH to provide data 
that  can  verify  that  Pregabalin  apparently  has  no  effect  on  nociceptive  pain  (osteoarthritis  and 
chronic low back pain). 
The MAH responded that the reports of the osteoarthritis (study 1008-031) and chronic low back pain 
(study 1008-104) studies were provided: 
- 
- 
In the osteoarthritis study only at the high dose (600 mg/day) and at only one time point (week 
1) there was a significant difference in pain score between placebo and pregabalin. Ratings of 
sleep quality were significant different between the pregabalin 600 mg/day and placebo at each 
week except week 12 and also for pregabalin 300 mg/day group but only at week 1 through 5. 
In  the  chronic  low  back  pain  study,  weekly  mean  pain  scores  showed  little  treatment  effect. 
Only at week 1 was there any significant difference between either pregabalin group (300, 450, 
600 mg/day) and the placebo group. Sleep interference was numerical different from placebo in 
favour of pregabalin that reached statistical significance for at least one dose at weeks 1, 2, 5, 
and 6. 
The  MAH  stated  that  in  both  studies  adverse  event  profile  was  similar  to  that  observed  in  other 
pregabalin  clinical  trials  in  pain,  with  dizziness  and  somnolence  being  the  most  commonly  reported 
adverse events. 
No effect of pregabalin on nociceptive pain was observed in the osteoarthritis and chronic low back 
pain study.   
11/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The conclusion that secondary endpoints and adverse event profiles were consistent with the expected 
pharmacodynamic  effects  of  pregabalin  dosed  within  the  dose  range  recommended  for  peripheral 
neuropathic pain look acceptable to the CHMP.  
The CHMP considers, in view of the above MAH’s  response, that there is no argumentation that an 
effect on nociceptive pain confounded the effect observed on neuropathic pain in the study 125. The 
issue is considered as solved by the CHMP. 
In  view  of  the  MAH’s  response  to  the  first  RSI,  the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  re-evaluate  the 
observed  effect  size,  in  view  of  the  imbalance  effect  that  in  study  125  the  study  arms  were  not 
comparable at baseline with respect to the level of anxiety as measured by the HADS-A. 
To demonstrate any potential impact of the baseline HADS-A, on the pain response, an analysis of the 
pain response accounting for HADS-A was conducted by the MAH.  Baseline HADS-A was used to 
divide the study population into two subgroups of roughly equal sample sizes – Low (HADS-A < 8) 
and High (HADS-A ≥ 8). An interaction model was run to assess the effect of the different levels of 
baseline HADS-A on treatment differences for pain change at endpoint.  
In  both  groups  pregabalin  had  greater  reductions  in  pain  than  placebo.  The  magnitude  of  these 
differences is greater for the subjects with higher baseline HADS-A scores. However, the results are 
sensitive to both the small sample sizes and whether the cut-point value (HADS-A=8) is included in 
the  low  or  high  group.  For  example,  if  the  subgroups  are  defined  as  low  (HADS-A  ≤  8)  and  high 
(HADS-A > 8) – a simple shift in which subgroup gets the subjects with HADS-A scores of 8 –  then 
for both subgroups the differences between treatments have p-values < 0.02.  
The MAH stated in their response that it is notable that the imbalance baseline HADS-A scores was that 
the placebo patients had larger HADS-A scores than Pregabalin. Pregabalin had smaller pain response 
in patients with smaller HADS-A scores at baseline.  Therefore, the observed treatment differences is 
not inflated by this imbalance.   
The CHMP considers that the emphasis on p-values is inadequate as it is the impact on effect size that 
was subject of interest, although it point at sensitivity for the cut-off point.  
The higher response in the HADS-A  > 8 points probably is a chance finding given that the placebo 
response is reversed i.e. a large improvement for the low baseline HADS-A and lesser improvement in 
the higher HADS-A category.  
More important what is shown is the effect size, for two levels of anxiety at baseline. Difference in 
effect size over the two levels of anxiety at baseline appears dramatic although the effect size is not 
reversed.    Whether  higher  levels  of  anxiety  at  baseline  were  associated  with  higher  baseline  pain 
scores is not clear. The CHMP considers that the data provided make it impossible to address this.    
Expected  was  a  regression  analysis  with  change  in  pain  score  as  dependent  variable  and  treatment, 
baseline painscore, baseline HADS-A score as independent variables. This way the effect size adjusted 
for  baseline  HADS-A  score  and  baseline  pain  score  could  have  been  compared  to  the  unadjusted 
effectsize.    In  addition  the  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  interaction  terms  should  have  been 
evaluated.  
The  opinion  of  the  CHMP  is  that  the  impact  of  anxiety  on  effect  size  as  well  as  the  effect  of  the 
unequal  distribution  of  anxiety  level  over  the  treatment  arms  were  not  evaluated  adequately;  the 
CHMP  considers  this  issue  as  not  resolved  upon  the  MAH’s  response  to  the  first  RSI  and  therefore 
requested the following clarifications: 
The  impact  of  anxiety  on  effect  size  and  more  important,  the  impact  of  the  unequal  distribution  of 
anxiety level over the treatment arms on effect size, was not evaluated adequately. This should be done 
as, depending on the results, this may have labelling consequences. Expected is an regression analysis 
with in change pain score as dependent variable and treatment, baseline pain score, baseline HADS-A 
score as independent variables. In addition the interaction terms should have been evaluated. 
12/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  regression  analysis  with  change  in  pain  score  from  baseline  as  dependent  variable  and  treatment, 
centre, baseline pain, baseline HADSA as dependent variables was provided by the MAH.  Baseline 
pain and HADS-A were treated as continuous variables.  
The  interaction  of  treatment  with  HADS-A  and  baseline  pain  score  with  treatment  was  significant. 
Therefore pregabalin and placebo were compared at various levels for both baseline pain and HADS-
A.  
All  combinations  quantitatively  favoured  the  pregabalin  treatment  group  and  of  the  9  statistical 
comparisons  made  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  pregabalin  and  placebo. 
Therefore,  while  there  was  a  baseline  imbalance  in  HADS-A  scores  between  treatment  groups,  the 
MAH stated that pregabalin continued to demonstrate a statistically significant treatment effect over 
placebo  at  endpoint  even  when  making  comparison  at  various  levels  of  baseline  HADS-A  and  pain 
scores.  The  MAH  responded  that  these  analyses  demonstrate  that  the  slight  baseline  imbalances  did 
not bias the treatments comparisons. 
The CHMP considers that the interaction of HADS-A and baseline pain score with treatment has been 
evaluated  sufficiently.  Overall  there  is  no  impact  of  anxiety  levels  on  effect  size.  The  interaction 
indicates that effect size increases within HADS category and within each HADS category effect size 
increases within each pain score category (cf. graph below).  
Baseline pain score low category 
Baseline pain score median category 
Baseline pain score high category 
e
z
i
s
-
t
c
e
f
f
E
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
HADS -low category 
HADS -middle category 
HADS -high  category 
The CHMP is in agreement that the analyses demonstrate that the slight baseline imbalances in anxiety 
levels did not bias the treatment comparisons.  The issue is considered solved by the CHMP. 
In view of the MAH’s response to the first RSI, the CHMP requested the MAH to comment on the fact 
that the groups were not comparable at baseline regarding concomitant treatments (baclofen, tricyclic 
antidepressants,  natural  opium  alkaloids)  and  level  of  anxiety.  The  CHMP  considers  that  these 
imbalances question the appropriateness of the randomisation procedure performed.  
The  MAH  responded  that  a  standard  randomization  procedure  was  used  as  in  all  trials.  To  achieve 
balance  in  all  baseline  factors  the  randomization  needs  to  ensure  balance  across  several  hundred 
different  concomitant  medications,  medication  classes,  and  other  baseline  characteristics.  Hence 
chance imbalances will occur but the directions of the imbalances appear sufficiently random.  
13/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The question appropriately notes the imbalances seen  in the study for three types of medication that 
may be beneficial in patients with neuropathic pain.  However, these imbalances did not consistently 
favour  the  pregabalin  treatment  group  and,  in  fact,  a  greater  proportion  of  placebo-treated  patients 
were taking opioids as concomitant medications. 
Post hoc analyses of the subgroups taking any and those not taking any concomitant pain medications 
showed that the pregabalin-placebo differences on the primary endpoint (mean pain scores endpoint) 
were  both  highly  significant.    This  was  true  even  when  those  particular  groups  were  restricted  to 
opioids and non-opioid users and TCA and non-TCA users. 
With  respect  to  baseline  level  of  concomitant  medication  the  MAH  provided  their  response  in  the 
following table.  
Number of subjects  
nlrandomised
Mean baseline pain score (sd)
Concomitant medication 
Baclofen
Benzodiazepines 
Tricyclic anti-depressants
Among with Amytriptyline
Analgetics & antipyretics
Placebo 
Pregabalin 
67 
6.7 (1.4) 
37.3% 
37.3% 
17.9% 
  6.0% 
43.3% 
70 
6.5 (1.4) 
54.3% 
40.0% 
34.3% 
17.0% 
34.3% 
It  is  agreed  by  the  CHMP  that  the  imbalances  appeared  at  random.  Although  the  response  is  not 
supported by data for verification, the MAH confirmed earlier analyses of the impact of co-medication 
on  the  effect  size.  The  CHMP  is  in  agreement  with  the  MAH’s  response;  the  issue  is  considered  as 
solved.  
Finally in view of the MAH’s response to the first RSI, the CHMP requested the MAH to provide data 
regarding  the  stability  of  concomitant  treatment  during  the  study  together  with  data  regarding  the 
possible rescue treatments that may have been taken by patients and to evaluate the impact of these 
changes in concurrent co-medication during the study on the observed effect size. 
The MAH’s responded that the protocol mentions the following regarding concomitant medications: 
Any  medication  the  subject  takes  other  than  the  study  drugs  specified  in  the  protocol,  is  considered 
concomitant  medication.  All  concomitant  medications  must  be  recorded  in  the  subject’s  medical 
record  and  on  the  CRFs.    Concomitant  treatment  with  analgesics,  anti-inflammatories  and  anti-
depressants  is  allowed  with  the  following  restrictions:    Patients  taking  nonnarcotic  analgesics  (eg, 
acetaminophen  [Paracetamol]),  narcotic  analgesics  (eg,  opioids),  tricyclic  antidepressants  (eg, 
amitriptyline  [Elavil]),  serotonin-specific  reuptake 
inhibitors  (eg,  sertraline  [Zoloft]),  anti-
inflammatories (eg, acetylsalicyclic acid [Aspirin]), or NSAIDs, must be on a stable dose regimen (for 
antidepressants  and  narcotic  analgesics:  stable  dose  within  the  last  30  days  prior  to  visit  V1),  and 
therapy  may  not  be  initiated  during  the  study.  Transcutaneous  electrical  nerve  stimulation,  and 
concomitant treatment with AEDs (excluding gabapentin) is also allowed at stable levels/dosages. If 
patients  are  on  gabapentin,  gabapentin  must  be  withdrawn  at  least  7  days  prior  to  visit  V1. 
Furthermore,  benzodiazepines  or  skeletal  muscle  relaxants  are  allowed  PRN  to  relieve  spasticity 
(benzodiazepines must be taken at least 6 hours prior any clinic visit). 
Thus, rescue medications were neither specifically described in the protocol nor allowed.  
With  regard  to  the  concomitant  medication  use,  the  MAH  emphasizes  that  the  protocol  restricted  or 
prohibited use of medications and therapies expected to affect pain response. Medications which were 
allowed to be taken had to be maintained at a stable dose prior to and during the study phase.  With the 
following exceptions, subjects enrolled in the study appeared to comply with the requirements of the 
14/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protocol.  The protocol violations resulting from prohibited medications are summarised in the table 
below: 
Protocol Violation 
Subject Numbers 
Placebo 
Acetaminophen taken for 1 (or 2 days) 
Narcotic  analgesic  (not  specified)  for  approximately  1.5 
months 
Oxycodone for 2 days 
Gabapentin not stopped until Visit 1 
Pregabalin 
Amytriptiline up to Visit 2 
Gabapentin >10 days after Visit 1 
Dextropropoxyphene plus acetaminophen PRN 
Narcotic analgesics (not specified) 
Source: 1008-000-125 study report, page 51 
1010 (4018) 
5018 
6010 
5004 
4004 
5001 
1011 
5013 
Given  the  small  numbers  of  protocol  violators  (4  for  pregabalin  treated  patients  and  5  for  placebo 
treated patients) and small number of violations due to the use of PRN medication , the MAH does not 
consider that there is any influence on the size of the observed treatment effect. 
In view of the MAH’s response the CHMP concludes that apparently compliance to the protocol was 
high.  The  use  of  concomitant  treatments  was  stable.  Protocol  violations  with  respect  to  concurrent 
medication  and  use  of  rescue  medication  were  limited.  Hence  a  large  impact  on  the  effect  size  is 
considered unlikely. The CHMP is in agreement with the MAH’s response; the issue is considered as 
solved.  
3.5 - Pharmacovigilance  
Risk Management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated risk management plan, which was revised following comments from 
the CHMP. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Weight gain 
Peripheral oedema 
Dizziness, 
somnolence and the 
potential for 
accidental injury 
Ophthalmological 
safety 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Routine Pharmacovigilance with 
use of targeted questionnaire for 
follow up. 
Ophthalmological safety study 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Warning in section 4.4 regarding weight 
gain in diabetics and the need to adjust 
hypoglycaemic medications. 
Weight gain in section 4.8 
Mentioned in section 4.8 
Warning in section 4.4 regarding  
dizziness and somnolence and the risk of 
accidental injury. 
Warning in 4.7 on the ability to drive and 
use machines 
Mentioned in section 4.8 
Mentioned in section 4.8 
15/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal effects 
Routine Pharmacovigilance with 
use of data capture aid to collect 
additional information from 
spontaneous reports. 
Post authorisation safety study to 
investigate withdrawal symptoms 
Haemangiosarcoma  Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Warning in section 4.2 to withdraw 
treatment gradually. 
Warning in section 4.4 regarding possible 
symptoms following discontinuation of 
treatment. 
Warning in section 4.8 
Discussed in section 5.3 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
3.6 – Conclusion on the risk/ benefit assessment 
The current procedure concerns a type II variation to add the indication of central neuropathic pain in 
adults.  
Spinal  cord  injury  may  be  considered  a  model  for  evaluating  central  neuropathic  pain.  The 
justification of spinal cord injury as model for central neuropathic pain by the MAH is accepted by the 
CHMP.  Pain  perception  below  the  functional  level  of  spinal  cord  injury  cannot  be  mediated  by  the 
sensory nerves thus must be of central origin.  
The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criterias  in  the  study  125  were  sufficient  for  the  diagnosis  of  central 
neuropathic pain. The location of the pain differentiates between peripheral neuropathic pain (at lesion 
level),  central  neuropathic  pain  (below  lesion  level)  and  nociceptive  pain  (elsewhere).  Earlier  in  the 
procedure it was discussed that verification of this diagnosis is limited as it cannot be excluded that 
assessment of the unblinded although prospective sampled data, is coloured by hindsight. Moreover, 
although  the  existence  of  pain  below  lesion  level  was  verified,  the  (non)presence  of  concomitant  at 
level pain and above level nociceptive pain was not. It appears that the latter is not possible as these 
data were not explicitly monitored once the in-and exclusion criteria were confirmed. The MAH has 
pointed  out  however,  that  all  patients  were  required  to  have  central  pain  and  it  is  agreed  with  the 
MAH,  that  clinical  expertise  is  capable  of  distinguishing  central  neuropathic  pain  from  concomitant 
nociceptive  and  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in  spinal  cord  injury,  as  the  location  is  different. 
Additionally  even  in  case  a  patient  would  have  had  both  central  and  peripheral  neuropathic  pain,  it 
was explicitly required only to score central pain and patients not able to  make the distinction were 
excluded. The CHMP agrees that it is reasonable to assume that the effect seen is due to an effect on 
central neuropathic pain. 
Apart from these selection criteria, pregabalin apparently has no effect on nociceptive pain as assessed 
in  the  studies  in  osteoarthritis  and  chronic  low  back  pain.  This  forms  an  argument  for  an  exclusive 
effect  of  pregabalin  on  neuropathic  pain.  The  other  way  around  as  the  efficacy  of  the  concomitant 
medication for nociceptive pain is known to have a poor effect on neuropathic pain it is unlikely that 
the  use  of  concurrent  medication  explains  the  observed  effect  size  in  neuropathic  pain.  In  the  study 
125, concurrent medications for neuropathic pain were allowed if kept stable. However, differences in 
use  of  concurrent  medication  did  not  result  in  differences  in  neurophatic  pain  score  at  baseline. 
Moreover  effect  size  did  not  change  when  adjusted  for  the  use  of  concurrent  medication.  Further 
protocol violations with respect to concurrent  medication and use of rescue  medication were scarce. 
Hence pollution of the effect size due to protocol violations is considered unlikely. 
The unequal distribution of anxiety level at baseline over the treatment arms did not affect effect size. 
Moreover, effect size adjusted for baseline HADS-A score as well as baseline pain score did not differ 
substantially from the effect size not adjusted for baseline anxiety levels. Hence there are no labelling 
consequences.  
In  conclusion,  in  view  of  the  variation  submission  (EMEA/H/C/546/II/07)  along  with  the  additional 
data  provided  in  the  MAH’s  responses  to  the  two  RSI  requested  by  the  CHMP,  the  efficacy  of 
pregabalin  in  central  neuropathic  pain  is  considered  established  in  an  appropriate  model  for  central 
neuropathic pain i.e. spinal cord injury. Additionally the safety profile being qualitatively identical to 
16/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  one  already  approved  at  time  of  the  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  indication,  the  benefit/risk 
assessment  in  the  treatment  of  central  neuropathic  pain  indication  is  positive.  The  indication  is 
considered approvable by the CHMP. 
4. CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION  
Changes to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) 
- Section 2 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the excipient lactose should be listed as follows: 
Each hard capsule contains 25 mg of pregabalin. Lyrica capsules also contain lactose monohydrate.   
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
The  MAH  is  in  agreement  and  amended  the  wording  of  this  section  accordingly.  The  labelling  was 
amended accordingly. 
- Section 3 
The CHMP considers that the following amendment should be made (deletion crossed out): 
White hard capsule, marked “Pfizer” on the cap and “PGN 25” on the body with black ink.  
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
- Section 4.1 “Therapeutic indication” 
The MAH proposed the following text in the section 4.1 of the SPC: 
Lyrica is indicated for the treatment of peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults. 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the indication is acceptable. 
- Section 4.4  “Special warnings and precautions for use” 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the following paragraph should be added: 
….”In  the  treatment  of  central  neuropathic  pain  due  to  spinal  cord  injury  the  incidence  of  adverse 
events  in  general,  CNS  adverse  events  and  especially  somnolence  was  increased.    This  may  be 
attributed to an additive effect due to concomitant medication (e.g. anti-spastic agents) needed for this 
condition. This should be considered when prescribing pregabalin in this condition.” 
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
- Section 4.8 
The CHMP was of the opinion that the following paragraph should be added: 
…"In the treatment of central neurophatic pain due to spinal cord injury the incidence of adverse 
events in general, CNS adverse events and especially somnolence was increased (See 4.4). 
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
- Section 5.1 
The following text (addition underlined) was proposed by the MAH:  
Clinical experience 
Neuropathic pain  
17/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy  has  been  shown  in  studies  in  diabetic  neuropathy,  and  post  herpetic  neuralgia  and  spinal 
cord injury.  Efficacy has not been studied in other models of neuropathic pain. 
Pregabalin  has  been  studied  in  910  controlled  clinical  studies  of  up  to  13  weeks  with  twice  a  day 
dosing (BID) and up to 8 weeks with three times a day (TID) dosing.  Overall, the safety and efficacy 
profiles for BID and TID dosing regimens were similar. 
In  clinical  trials  up  to 1312 weeks  for  both peripheral  and  central  neuropathic  pain,  a  reduction  in 
pain was seen by week 1 and was maintained throughout the treatment period. 
In controlled clinical trials in peripheral neuropathic pain 35% of the pregabalin treated patients and 
18% of the patients on placebo had a 50% improvement in pain score.  For patients not experiencing 
somnolence, such an improvement was observed in 33% of patients treated with pregabalin and 18% 
of patients on placebo.  For patients who experienced somnolence the responder rates were 48% on 
pregabalin and 16% on placebo. 
In the controlled clinical trial in central neuropathic pain 22% of the pregabalin treated patients and 
7% of the patients on placebo had a 50% improvement in pain score.  
The CHMP is in agreement with the proposed wording. 
Changes to the Package Leaflet (PL) 
The  PL  was  amended  in  accordance  with  the  changes  made  in  the  SPC;  any  comments  mentioned 
above for the SPC applicable for the PL were taken into account and the PL was amended accordingly. 
The  CHMP  is  in  agreement  with  the  following  wording  in  the  sections  of  the  PL  mentioned  below 
(underlined additions and deletion highlighted): 
1.  WHAT LYRICA IS AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
The safety and effectiveness of pregabalin in patients below the age of 18 years with peripheral and 
central neuropathic pain, epilepsy and Generalised Anxiety Disorder has not been established. 
Peripheral  and  central  neuropathic  pain:  LYRICA  is  used  to  treat  long  lasting  pain  caused  by 
damage to the nerves.  A variety of diseases can cause peripheral neuropathic pain, such as diabetes 
or shingles.  Pain sensations may be described as hot, burning, throbbing, shooting, stabbing, sharp, 
cramping, aching, tingling, numbness, pins and needles.  Peripheral and central neuropathic pain may 
also be associated with mood changes, sleep disturbance, fatigue, and can have an impact on physical 
and social functioning and overall quality of life. 
2. BEFORE YOU TAKE LYRICA 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the PL should be adapted to the updated SPC.  
Take special care with LYRICA 
…Certain  side  effects  may  be  more  common,  such  as  sleepiness,  because  patients  with  spinal  cord 
injury may be taking other medications to treat, for example, pain or spasticity, that have similar side 
effects to Pregabalin and the severity of these effects may be increased when taken together. 
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
3. HOW TO TAKE LYRICA 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  route  of  administration  should  be  added,  using  the  Ph.  Eur. 
standard term: oral use. 
18/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
…..Your doctor will determine what dose is appropriate for you. 
LYRICA is for oral use only. 
Peripheral and central neuropathic pain, epilepsy or Generalised Anxiety Disorder:….. 
Also  the  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  following  wording  should  be  added  in  this  section  as 
follows: 
If you stop taking LYRICA 
….  After  stopping  long  and  short-term  pregabalin  treatment,  you  need  to  know  that  you  may 
experience certain side effects.  These include, trouble sleeping, headache, nausea, diarrhea, flu-like 
symptoms, nervousness, depression, pain, sweating, and dizziness.  It is not clear at this time whether 
these  symptoms  occur  more  commonly  or  severely  if  you  have  been  taking  pregabalin  for  a  longer 
period of time. 
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
4. POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS 
The PL was amended in accordance with the changes made in the section 4.8 of the SPC. 
…..Certain side effects may be more common, such  as sleepiness, because patients with spinal cord 
injury may be taking other medications to treat, for example, pain or spasticity, that have similar side 
effects to Pregabalin and the severity of these effects may be increased when taken together. 
5. HOW TO STORE LYRICA 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the order of the statements should be changed according to the QRD 
templates, as follows: 
Keep LYRICA out of the reach and sight of children.
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
6. FURTHER INFORMATION 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the other ingredients should be separated according to the different 
parts of the order of the statements, as follows: 
What Lyrica contains  
- 
- 
….The other ingredients are: lactose monohydrate, maize starch, talc, gelatine, titanium dioxide 
(E171),  sodium  laurilsulphate,  anhydrous  colloidal  silica,  black  ink,  (which  contains  shellac, 
black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol, potassium hydroxide) and water.  
The 75, 100, 200, 225 and 300 mg capsules also contain red iron oxide (E172).  
The CHMP is also of the opinion that the Ph. Eur. standard term should be stated separately, as 
follows: 
What LYRICA looks like and contents of the pack 
LYRICA 25 mg capsules are hard white hard gelatine capsules, with “Pfizer” marked on the cap and 
“PGN 25” on the body.  
The MAH is in agreement and amended the wording of this section accordingly. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to update the contact details of the local representatives in 
the Package Leaflet. 
19/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes to the Labelling 
The labelling was changed in line with the current version of the QRD template. The MAH proposed 
changes, which were acceptable to the CHMP.  
3. LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
This product contains lactose monohydrate 
"User Consultation" of the package leaflet (Art 59(3) and 61(1) of the amended Directive): 
The MAH has provided a justification for not performing a Readability test at the time of submission 
of the variation dossier. The CHMP considered that the justification, which relates to the previously 
proposed addition of Generalised Anxiety Disorder is not applicable. Therefore, the CHMP requested 
the MAH to submit an updated documentation. Upon CHMP’s request the MAH explained their opinion 
and stated that the changes due to the proposed addition of the central neuropathic pain indication are 
minor  and  do  not  significantly  change  the  readability  of  the  approved  documentation.  The  MAH 
therefore  proposed  that  the  readability  work  carried  out  to  date  is  adequate  to  cover  the  user 
consultation of the package leaflet. 
Upon additional justification from the  MAH the CHMP agrees  that the proposed addition of central 
neuropathic  pain  does  not  significantly  change  the  readability  of  the  approved  documentation. 
Therefore, the CHMP is of the opinion that additional testing is not required. The issue is considered 
solved by the CHMP. 
CONCLUSION 
On  27  July  2006  the  CHMP  considered  this  type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet based on the observations and appropriate conclusions. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measure as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments: 
Area1
Non-clinical 
Due date2/Fulfilled 
February 2007 
Description 
is 
insufficient  evidence 
to 
ERA:  There 
replace  the  base  set  requirement  of  the  ELS 
study  with  this  general  concept  based  on 
deductive  science,  parameterized  on  few 
empirical  data  on  less  relevant  chemicals, 
within  the  current  registration  framework. 
The data requirement, as part of the base set, 
is maintained. 
Non-clinical 
ERA:  In  view  of  the  preliminary  PNEC  of 
>4.6  µg/L,  the  LOQ  for  pregabalin  in  water 
of 54 µg/L is not low enough. An analytical 
method for water with a LOQ at the level of  
0.1 µg/L should be established. 
February 2007 
1. Quality, Non-clinical, clinical, pharmacovigilance 
2. Due date for the FUM or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be committed to. Please specify whether theses SOs or FUMs 
have been fulfilled. 
20/20 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
