Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for LysaKare (2.5% lysine arginine 
amino acid solution in sterile water) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for LysaKare. The RMP details important risks of 
LysaKare, and how more information will be obtained about LysaKare's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
LysaKare's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how LysaKare should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for LysaKare should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of LysaKare's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
LysaKare is indicated for use as a renal protective agent during Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy 
(PRRT)  with  Radiolabeled  Somatostatin  Analogs  (RSAs).  It  contains  2.5%  lysine  arginine  solution  in 
sterile water as the active substance and it is given by intravenous route 250 mL/h for a total of 4 hours. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  LysaKare’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  LysaKare’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/lysakare.   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of LysaKare, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, in the package leaflet and SmPC 
addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.   
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of LysaKare are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of LysaKare. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Hyperkalaemia 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk Hyperkalaemia 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
In  PRRT,  amino  acid  solutions  are  used  as  co  infusion  with  RSA. 
the medicine 
Majority of the publications described about the active substances, 
L-lysine  and  L-arginine  which  are  positively  charged  amino  acids 
that competitively inhibit the proximal tubular reabsorption of the 
radiopeptide  to  reduce  the  kidney  retention  of  the  radiolabelled 
compound, thus reducing the radiation exposure to the kidney. Few 
publications  report  hyperkalaemia  as  an  adverse  effect  of  co 
infused amino acids.  
A  frequently  cited  mechanism  for  these  findings  is  that  acidosis 
causes potassium to move from cells to extracellular fluid (plasma) 
in exchange for hydrogen ions.  
There are several potential mechanisms described in the literature 
for the increased serum potassium associated with infusions of any 
cationic  amino  acids.  These  include  the  direct  displacement  of 
intracellular potassium by the cationic amino acids, and a shift of 
intracellular potassium to the cell exterior secondary to increased 
production of ketonic bodies in an acidic environment (Barone et al 
2004) 
Hyperkalaemia  associated  with  lysine may  be  caused by  the 
ketogenic  characteristics  of  lysine  that  lowers  intracellular  pH 
causing an outwardly directed potassium flux (Lapa et al 2014b).   
Lastly, diarrhea  is  one  of  the  common  symptoms  in  small  bowel 
and  pancreatic  NETs  (Basuroy et  al  2018). Dehydration in  these 
patients due to diarrhea may  lead  to  hypotension  and  decreased 
tissue  perfusion  leading  to  metabolic  acidosis  with  subsequent 
elevation of potassium (Leslie et al 2018) 
However,  the  doses  of  the  amino  acids  vary  in  each  of  the 
publication. A common observation noted was that the higher the 
doses  of  Lysine  and  Arginine,  the  patients  are  more  prone  to 
experience Hyperkalaemia. The levels of hyperkalaemia observed 
in some patients were severe (as reported) and required correction 
and close monitoring.  In the proposed LysaKare formulation  with 
2.5% solution, the instances of increased serum potassium levels 
reported in the literature are transient and generally mild; serum 
 
 
 
potassium returns to normal levels in 24h and it is not associated 
with clinically relevant symptoms.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with existing hyperkalaemia 
Patients with reduced creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min: The use 
of arginine and lysine has not been specifically studied in patients 
with  renal  impairment.  Arginine  and  lysine  are  substantially 
excreted  and  re-absorbed  by  the  kidney,  and  its  efficacy  in  the 
reduction of renal radiation exposure is dependent on this. Due to 
potential for clinical complications related to volume overload, use 
of  LysaKare in  patients with  creatinine  clearance  <  30 mL/min is 
not recommended. 
Patients with cardiac insufficiency are known to have problems with 
fluid  overload  when  receiving  intravenous  fluids.  Thus,  large 
volume 
infusions  associated  with  parenteral  amino  acid 
formulations  are  not  recommended  in  patients  with  cardiac 
insufficiency for their approved indications.  
Patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  who  could  develop 
potential metabolic overload 
Elderly patients who are likely to have reduced renal function are 
at  risk,  care  should  be  taken  in  determining  eligibility  based  on 
creatinine clearance  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures beyond adverse reactions 
reporting and signal detection. 
Hyperkalaemia specific follow up questionnaire to allow a sound 
medical assessment of cases reporting Hyperkalaemia. 
Sections in SmPC: 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
A Category 3 post-authorization safety study to assess the effect 
of LysaKare administration on potassium blood levels concentration 
up to 24h compared to baseline 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important potential risk 
None 
Missing information 
None 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
