18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/34531/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Lysodren 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: mitotane 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000521/PSUV/0016 
Period covered by the PSUR:  29 April 2011-28 April 2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Lysodren, the scientific conclusions 
of PRAC are as follows:  
Four literature reports concerning CYP3A4 induction by mitotane treatment have been provided. This 
interaction is clinically relevant leading to: 1) drug-drug interaction between mitotane and other drugs 
also metabolized through CYP3A4, for instance, decreased sunitinib and midazolam exposure which 
can result in inadvertent therapeutic failure of the co-administered drugs; and 2) higher dose of 
glucocorticoid substitution therapy in mitotane-treated patients since the increase clearance rate of 
endogenous and exogenous glucocorticoids. The MAH should include this interaction in sections 4.4 
and 4.5 of the SmPC. The package leaflet should be updated accordingly. 
Isolated hepatic enzyme increase has been very commonly reported in mitotane- treated patients, 
especially isolated increase of Gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT). Liver damages (hepatocellular, 
cholestatic and mixed) and autoimmune hepatitis have been reported. Patients with adrenal cortical 
carcinoma may have hepatic metastasis and hepatic dysfunction resulting from this. They may receive 
concomitant therapy with ketoconazole, a hepatotoxic drug, for the treatment of hypercortisolism and 
this may result in an increase in liver enzymes levels or a pre-existing hepatotoxicity. The SmPC should 
be updated to include a warning to recommend monitoring of liver function test. The package leaflet 
should be updated accordingly. 
The MAH stated that a free service for testing plasma levels of mitotane in order to help prescribers to 
safely reach the therapeutic window (14-20 mg/L) is provided. Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC 
highlight the relevance of monitoring mitotane plasma levels to adjust the mitotane dose. However, 
the information on the free testing service is not included in the SmPC of mitotane. The MAH should 
include this relevant information in the SmPC. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Lysodren, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance mitotane is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Lysodren  
EMA/CHMP/34531/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
