EMA/423898/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000521 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lysodren 
mitotane 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Lysodren. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Lysodren. 
What is Lysodren? 
Lysodren is a medicine that contains the active substance mitotane. It is available as tablets (500 mg). 
What is Lysodren used for? 
Lysodren is used to treat the symptoms of advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma (cancer of the outer 
layer of the adrenal gland). It is used when the cancer is unresectable (cannot be removed by 
surgery), is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body), or has relapsed (returned after 
treatment). 
Because the number of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, 
and Lysodren was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 12 June 
2002. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Lysodren used? 
Treatment with Lysodren should be started and followed by a specialist who has suitable experience. 
The recommended starting dose in adults is 2 to 3 g per day, divided into two or three doses, taken 
with meals containing fatty food. A starting dose of 4 to 6 g per day can be used in patients who need 
urgent control of Cushing’s syndrome (a set of symptoms of adrenal gland cancer caused by high 
hormone levels). The dose is increased in a stepwise manner until it reaches an ‘optimal’ dose that 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
gives the best results without causing unacceptable side effects. The levels of the active substance in 
the blood should be monitored frequently, with the final target dose aiming to reach blood levels 
between 14 and 20 mg per litre. This is usually reached within three to five months. Levels above 
20 mg/l may cause severe side effects without increasing the medicine’s effectiveness. 
The dose may be reduced or treatment interrupted if the patient experiences side effects. Treatment 
should continue as long as there is a benefit. If there is no improvement in symptoms after three 
months of treatment at the optimal dose, treatment should be stopped. 
There is limited information on the use of Lysodren in children, but a daily starting dose of 1.5 to 3.5 g 
per square metre body surface area (calculated using the child’s height and weight) is recommended. 
Lysodren is not recommended for use in patients with severe liver or kidney problems, and it should be 
used with caution in those with mild or moderate liver or kidney problems. It should also be used with 
caution in elderly patients, with frequent monitoring of blood levels. 
Patients who take Lysodren should receive the ‘Lysodren patient card’ that they should carry with them 
in case of emergency, to inform healthcare professionals (such as doctors and nurses) that they are 
taking the medicine. 
How does Lysodren work? 
The cortex of the adrenal gland produces steroid hormones. When this area develops cancer, levels of 
these hormones can increase, causing the symptoms of the disease. The active substance in Lysodren, 
mitotane, is thought to work by preventing cells in the adrenal gland from working properly, by 
damaging their mitochondria (the energy-producing components), reducing the production of some 
steroid hormones. It may also alter the breakdown of these hormones. Together, these effects reduce 
the levels of the hormones in the body, improving the symptoms of the disease. 
How has Lysodren been studied? 
Since the active substance in Lysodren, mitotane, is a well-established medicine that has been used in 
the treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma in Europe since 1959, the company presented information 
from the published literature to support its application for Lysodren. 
It presented the results of 220 studies published since 1990 on the use of the medicine in 
unresectable, metastatic adrenal cortical carcinoma. The studies included over 500 adults and children, 
who were treated for various lengths of time with mitotane, either alone or in combination with other 
anticancer medicines. The main measures of effectiveness in the studies included survival time, the 
reduction in tumour size and the time spent free of the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefit has Lysodren shown during the studies? 
Overall, the studies suggested that Lysodren could provide a benefit in patients with advanced adrenal 
cortical carcinoma, by increasing survival times (by over five years in a few cases) and causing 
shrinkage or stabilisation of tumour size in 20 to 30% of patients. It also reduced the symptoms of the 
disease, particularly in patients whose cancer was producing high hormone levels. There was 
insufficient evidence to support its use as an add-on to other anticancer medicines. Limited information 
was available on the use of mitotane in children, but overall, the children remained disease free for an 
average of seven months when taking the medicine. 
Lysodren  
EMA/423898/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Lysodren? 
The most common side effects with Lysodren (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are increased blood 
levels of liver enzymes, cholesterol and triglycerides (a type of fat), leucopenia (low white blood cell 
counts), prolonged bleeding time, ataxia (difficulty co-ordinating movements), paraesthesia (abnormal 
sensations like pins and needles), vertigo (a spinning sensation), sleepiness, mucositis (inflammation 
of the mucous membranes, such as the lining of the mouth), vomiting, diarrhoea, nausea (feeling 
sick), epigastric discomfort (discomfort around the stomach), skin rash, myasthenia (muscle 
weakness), adrenal insufficiency (reduced adrenal gland activity), loss of appetite, asthenia 
(weakness), gynaecomastia (breast enlargement) and confusion. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Lysodren, see the package leaflet. 
Lysodren must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to mitotane or any of the other 
ingredients. It must not be used in patients who are breast-feeding or who are taking spironolactone (a 
diuretic). 
Why has Lysodren been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Lysodren’s benefits are greater than its risks for the treatment of advanced 
adrenal cortical carcinoma, but noted that the effect of Lysodren has not been established in adrenal 
cortical carcinoma that is not producing high levels of steroid hormones. The Committee recommended 
that Lysodren be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Lysodren 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Lysodren on 28 April 2004.  
The summary of opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Lysodren can be found on 
the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
The full EPAR for Lysodren can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Lysodren, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2013. 
Lysodren  
EMA/423898/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
