SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Lysodren. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Malignant neoplasms of the adrenal cortex are rare; they account for 0.05 to 0.2 per cent of all cancers, 
and show a bimodal age distribution, with the first peak occurring before the age of 5 years and the 
second in the fourth to fifth decade. There is a female predominance, accounting for 55 to 85 per cent 
of the cases, particularly among functional tumours. Men with adrenal cortical carcinoma tend to be 
older than women (Third national cancer survey, National Cancer Institute, 1975).  
Approximately  60  percent  of  patients  have  a  functional  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma,  defined  by  the 
existence  of  signs  of  excess  adrenal  hormone  production.  Among  functional  tumours,  Cushing’s 
syndrome  is  evidenced  in  half  of  the  patients  and  virilization  in  one  third  of  them,  whereas 
hyperaldosteronism, feminisation or the combination of Cushing’s syndrome and virilization account 
for  a  minority  of  patients.  Nearly  half  of  adult  carcinomas  are  non-functional,  and  these  patients 
present  clinically  with  abdominal  or  flank  pain  or  as  an  adrenal  mass  incidentally  discovered. 
Metastatic  disease  to  the  lungs,  liver,  or  bone  may  cause  symptoms  before  the  primary  diagnosis  is 
made.  
The staging criteria of adrenal cortical carcinoma allow identifying 4 stages (Grossman 2002, Flack et 
al. 1997, (Liou and Kay 2000), which actually correspond to 3 stages of the disease (Ng and Libertino 
2003):  local  disease  (stages  I  and  II),  regional  disease  (stage  III),  and  advanced  disease  (stage  IV). 
About 40% of patients have stage IV disease at diagnosis, and the incidences of stage I, II and III is 
20% each. 
Surgical resection is the only therapy that has consistently shown to prolong survival and be curative 
in  some  cases,  particularly  if  disease  is  detected  at  early  stages  and  local  or  distant  metastases  are 
absent  (<  50%  of  patients).  Radical  excision  with  en  bloc  resection  is  the  procedure  of  choice 
(ipsilateral  adrenalectomy  with/without  nephrectomy  and/or  splenectomy).  The  recurrence  rate  after 
complete resection is 35-85%, and no adjuvant treatment (radiotherapy, chemotherapy immunotherapy 
or hormonal treatment) has demonstrated to be beneficial.  
Resectable  recurrences  are  usually  operated  on,  and  a  number  of  patients  remain  disease-free 
thereafter. The role of surgery when the tumours cannot be completely excised is more controversial. 
A  drug  therapy  is  often  administered  to  patients  whose  tumour  is  unresectable  at  presentation  or  at 
relapse  and  radiotherapy  is  only  indicated  as  palliative  treatment  for  patients  with  bone  metastases. 
Mitotane  is  the  most  commonly  prescribed  medicinal  product.  Other  chemotherapeutic  agents 
frequently used are cisplatin, etoposide  or doxorubicin (the list is not  exhaustive). These are usually 
used  in  combination  regimens  (cisplatin-etoposide,  cisplatin-doxorubicin-5-FU,  ...)  and  are  able  to 
induce  short  lived  objective  responses  in  about  20-30%  of  patients.  Their  toxicity  is  however 
remarkable in this palliative setting and their impact in disease progression, survival or quality on life 
remain unproven.  
The prognosis of adrenal cortical carcinoma tumours is generally poor in adults and somehow better in 
children.  In  a  recent  review  of  seven  large  series,  the  mean  survival  was  18  months.  Most  series 
showed  no  statistically  significant  differences  based  on  patients’  age,  gender  or  tumour  functional 
status. However, stage was an important prognostic predictor. For stages I to IV tumours, approximate 
5-year survival was 30-45%, 12.5-57%, 5-18% and 0%, respectively. Surgical resection was the only 
therapy that significantly prolonged survival, particularly when disease was detected at stages I and II. 
Median  survival  in  patients  with  unresectable  tumours  was  3  to  9  months,  whereas  after  complete 
resection median survival was 13 to 28 months. 
1/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitotane  or  o,p’-DDD  (1-(o-chlorophenyl)-1-(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2-dichloroethane),  is  an  isomer  of 
DDD,  an  insecticide  analogue  of  DDT,  which  was  shown  to  produce  adrenal  atrophy  in  dogs.  By 
causing alterations in the mitochondrial function and blocking adrenal steroid 11-β-hydroxylation and 
altering the extra-adrenal metabolism of cortisol and androgens, mitotane acts as an adrenolytic agent. 
These observations led to the discovery of the potential value of mitotane in the treatment of adrenal 
cortical carcinoma.  
Surgery  seems  to  be  the  preferred  option  of  treatment  of  adrenal  carcinoma  (whenever  possible). 
Nevertheless, medical treatment may be necessary if case of failure of surgical intervention, when it is 
impossible or in case of relapse. In these circumstances, mitotane appears to be the most commonly 
used  treatment.  Nowadays,  there  is  no  authorised  drug  therapy  for  the  treatment  of  adrenocortical 
carcinoma. 
On 12 June 2002, mitotane was granted an orphan designation by the European Commission, based on 
the low prevalence of the disease (0.1 in 10,000 persons, corresponding to less than 4000 cases in the 
European Union), where the indication is pursued (adrenal carcinoma).  
Well-established medicinal use 
This  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  for  Lysodren  was  a  full  marketing  authorisation 
application.  All  non-clinical  and  clinical  documentation  presented  in  modules  4  and  5  for  this 
application,  consisted  of  publications.  The  Applicant  did  not  provide  data  from  own  tests.  The 
submission  of  bibliographical  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  is  justified  with  reference  to  Article 
10(1)(a)(ii) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended and to Part II.1 of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC, 
as  amended  by  Directive  2003/63/EC.  These  require  that  the  applicant  demonstrates  that  the 
constituent  of  the  medicinal  product  has  a  well-established  medicinal  use,  with  recognised  efficacy 
and an acceptable level of safety.  
The claim of ‘well-established medicinal use’ of mitotane has been based on the time over which the 
substance has been used, on quantitative aspects of the use of the substance, the degree of scientific 
interest  in  the  use  of  the  substance,  and  the  coherence  of  scientific  assessments.  The  applicant  has 
submitted  bibliographical  data  covering  all  aspects  of  the  safety  and  efficacy  assessment  and  which 
reflect information available at that time. At the time when the Marketing Authorisation Application 
for Lysodren was submitted no epidemiological study assessing the efficacy or safety profile of this 
product  had  been  published.  The  Applicant  addressed,  whenever  possible,  the  relevance  of  data 
submitted  concerning  products  or formulations  different from  the  product (Lysodren) intended  to  be 
authorised  in  the  Community.  The  Applicant  submitted  a  five  years  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report 
(for the third countries where the product is authorised covering the period from 8 July 1997 to 7 July 
2002). 
Overview of the development of mitotane  
Mitotane  was  shown  to  produce  adrenal  atrophy  in  dogs  in  1948.  Mitotane  has  been  used  an  an 
adrenolytic  agent  for  the  treatment  of  adrenocortical  carcinoma  since  1960  (Bergenstal,  Hertz  et  al. 
1960). Lysodren is currently approved in seven countries and marketed in six non-EU countries (these 
countries  are  Brazil,  Canada,  Hong  Kong,  Malaysia,  South  Korea  and  United  States  of  America). 
Mitotane is available in Australia and New Zealand to individual patients under a SAS (Special Access 
Scheme). 
Mitotane was granted by the European Commission on 12 June 2002 an orphan designation in the EU, 
based  on  the  low  prevalence  of  the  adrenal  carcinoma  (0.1  in  10,000  persons,  corresponding  to  less 
than 4000 cases in the European Union), where the indication is pursued.  
Time over which mitotane has been used in the Community 
The  extent  and  the  period  over  which  mitotane  was  used  in  the  Community  is  documented  by  the 
publication of clinical reports (on uncontrolled and open series of patients) treated with the product for 
an adrenocortical carcinoma (see table below). 
2/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country 
Belgium 
France 
France 
Bibliographical 
reference 
(Van  Geertruyden,  De 
Myttenaere et al. 1980) 
(Luton,  Cerdas  et  al. 
1990) 
Period  over  which  the 
product had been used 
One patient reported to be 
treated  at 
the  Hôpital 
Brugmann, Bruxelles  and 
Braine-
de 
Hôpital 
l’Alleud, Waterloo. 
The patients were referred 
to 
Endocrine 
Department of the Hôpital 
Cochin  between  1963  and 
1987. 
the 
(Bonacci,  Gigliotti  et  al. 
1998) 
Between  1993  and  1997, 
eighteen  patients  were 
included in tihis study.  
France 
(Teinturier,  Pauchard  et 
al. 1999) 
Between  1973  and  1993, 
paediatric  patients  were 
studied  at  Saint  Vincent 
de  Paul  Hospital  (Paris) 
and at the Institut Gustave 
Roussi (Villejuif) 
France 
France 
(Baudin,  Pellegriti  et  al. 
2001) 
Since  1995,  patients  with 
ACC who were referred to 
the 
Gustave-Roussy 
Institute  were  enrolled 
prospectively in the study. 
(Icard, Goudet et al. 2001) Between  1978  and  1997, 
patients  with 
adrenal 
cortical  carcinoma  were 
treated 
in  six  different 
centres  in  France  (Caen, 
Lille, Paris and Marseille). 
Study  conducted  by  the 
French  Association  of 
Endocrine 
Surgeons. 
Preliminary  results  of  this 
study  were  reported 
in 
1992 (Icard, Chapuis et al. 
1992). 
patients 
of 
Number 
included in the study. 
Exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
105 patients were studied 
(75 female and 30 male; 
mean age, 46 years) with 
adrenocortical carcinoma. 
Mitotane (Roussel-
UCLAF) was used. 
These eighteen patients 
received mitotane. 
Mitotane treatment was 
maintained during 
chemotherapy in 14 
patients, mitotane from 
Pharmacie Centrale de 
l’Assistance Publique-
Hôpitaux de Paris was 
used. Authors refer to the 
products used in a 
previous published study 
(Luton, Cerdas et al. 
1990). 
Twenty one patients 
received mitotane (7-12 
mg/m2/day), and an 
additional eighteen 
patients received the 
product after surgery (5-9 
mg/m2/day) exact trade 
name of the product 
containing mitotane not 
specified in the 
publication. 
Twenty-four patients with 
adrenal cortical carcinoma 
were studied, mitotane 
from Pharmacie Centrale 
de l’Assistance Publique-
Hôpitaux de Paris was 
used in this study. 
One hundred and thirty 
five of the patients were 
treated with mitotane, 
exact exact trade name of 
the containing mitotane 
not specified in the 
publication. 
3/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Greece 
(Ilias,  Alevizaki  et  al. 
2001) 
France 
Germany 
Italy 
Italy 
(Andres,  Vinzio  et  al. 
2001) 
Case  report  of  a  patient 
treated in Strasbourg. 
(Kornely and Schlaghecke 
1994) 
Case  report  of  a  female 
treated  in  the  1980’s  the 
Heine 
Heinrich 
Universität,  Düsseldorf 
Hospital.  
Two  patients  were  treated 
first  endocrine 
in 
the 
“Alexandra” 
section 
University 
Hospital, 
Athens. 
(Barzon, Fallo et al. 1997) These 
patients  were 
referred to the Division of 
of 
Endocrinology 
the 
University 
Padova 
of 
between 1978 and 1995. 
(Berruti,  Terzolo  et  al. 
1998) 
for 
The  study  began  in  1993 
in  a  single  institution  in 
Italy  and  from  July  1994 
onwards became an Italian 
multicentre  Phase  II  trial. 
The  study  was  conducted 
until  June  1997  by  the 
the 
Italian  Group 
Study of Adrenal Cancer. 
From 1994 to 1999 fifteen 
patients with adrenal 
cortical carcinoma were 
treated with mitotane in 
the Dipatimento di 
Medicina Interna, 
Università di Torino. 
From 1980 until 1998, 31 
patients with adrenal 
cortical carcinoma 
underwent adrenalectomy 
in the Endocrine Surgery 
Unit, Department of 
Surgical and 
Gastroenterological 
sciences, University of 
Padua, Padova. 
Precise period not 
specified in the article. 
Italy 
(Terzolo, Pia et al. 2000) 
Italy 
(Favia,  Lumachi  et  al. 
2001) 
The Netherlands 
(van 
Seters 
Moolenaar 1991) 
and 
Exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
Case report of a woman 
treated with mitotane, 
exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
Case report of two 
patients treated for more 
than ten years with 
mitotane, exact trade 
name of the product 
containing mitotane not 
specified in the 
publication. 
Forty-five patients with 
adrenocortical carcinoma 
(13 non-functioning and 
32 functioning 
carcinomas) were 
retrospectively studied. 
Lysodren (Bristol Myers 
Squibb) was used. 
Twenty-eight patients (18 
women and 10 men; 
median age, 47 years; 
range, 27-65 years) were 
enrolled in the study. 
Eight patients with 
adrenocortical cancer 
were included in the 
study, Lysodren (Bristol 
Myers Squibb) was used. 
These thirty one patients 
were subsequently treated 
with mitotane, exact trade 
name of the product 
containing mitotane not 
specified in the 
publication. 
Four patients treated in the 
Department of 
Endocrinology, University 
Hospital, Leiden were 
included in this study, 
exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
4/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Netherlands 
(Bollen and Lanser 1992)  Case report of a patient 
The Netherlands 
(Haak,  Hermans  et  al. 
1994) 
The Netherlands 
(Feller,  Hoekman  et  al. 
1997) 
treated in the Departement 
of Neurology, University 
Hospital, Leiden.  
Ninety-six patients with 
adrenal cortical carcinoma 
were evaluated and 
followed-up in the 
Department of 
Endocrinology of the 
University Hospital of 
Leiden from 1959 until 
1991. Fourty two patients 
described in a previous 
study are included in this 
publication  
Case report of a patient 
with adrenal cortical 
carcinoma treated in the 
Free University Hospital, 
Boelelaan. 
Sweden 
Sweden 
(Khan, Imam et al. 2000)  Over the past 20 years 
before the article was 
published (2000), the 
Departments of medicine, 
surgery and pathology of 
the University Hospital in 
Uppsala and the 
department of Surgery, 
Karolinska Hospital in 
Stockholm evaluated and 
treated 40 patients with 
adrenal cortical 
carcinoma. 
Eighteen consecutive 
patients were treated at 
our unit over a 22-year 
period (1975-1997) in the 
Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital in Göteborg. 
(Khorram-Manesh, 
Ahlman et al. 1998) 
United Kingdom 
(Hague, May et al. 1989)  Case reports of two 
United Kingdom 
(Maher,  Trainer  et  al. 
1992) 
patients treated in the 
Royal Hallamshire 
Hospital, Sheffield 
between 1974 and 1982.  
Series of patients treated 
with mitotane since 1982 
in the Hammersmith 
Hospital (MRC 
lipoprotein team) and St 
Bartholomew’s Hospital 
in London. 
One patient is reported to 
have been treated with 
mitotane (exact trade 
name of the product not 
specified). 
Ninety-six patient were 
treated with mitotane 
(Calbiochem and Bristol-
Myers). 
Exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
A phase II study was 
conducted in 40 patients 
with adrenal cortical 
carcinoma, Lysodren 
(Bristol Myers Squibb) 
was used. 
These 18 patients were 
treated with mitotane, 
exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
These two patients 
received mitotane, exact 
trade name of the product 
containing mitotane not 
specified in the 
publication. 
Two of these patients had 
adrenal cortical carcinoma 
and received mitotane. 
Exact trade name of the 
product containing 
mitotane not specified in 
the publication. 
The table above shows that the first documented use of mitotane in the Community is dating back from 
1959  in  the  Netherlands  (Haak,  Hermans  et  al.  1994).  Apart  from  some  isolated  cases  of  lasting 
responses, the efficacy of mitotane in bringing about objective tumor regression has been explored in 
large  retrospective  studies  conducted  for  some  of  them  in  EU  countries.  Since  the  beginning  of  the 
nineties,  the  studies  published  in  the  scientific  literature  included  large  series  of  patients  treated  by 
mitotane.  In  France,  Luton  et  al.  studied  the  benefit  of  mitotane  administration  in  105  patients  (75 
female  and  30  male;  mean  age,  46  years)  with  adrenocortical  carcinoma  who  were  referred  to  this 
5/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hospital  between  1963  and  1987  (Luton,  Cerdas  et  al.  1990).  In  Italy,  the  survival  rate  of  forty-five 
patients  treated  or  not  with  adjuvant  with  mitotane  was  studied  between  1978  and  1995.  In  the 
Netherlands,  the  use  is  documented  in  a  large  series  of  patients  for  a  period  of  time  exceeding  forty 
years (Haak, Hermans et al. 1994). Mitotane has been used in Sweden for more than 20 years (Khan, 
Imam et al. 2000) and in the United Kingdom for approximately 30 years. 
Most of these articles do not mention the exact trade name of the product used in the studies. However, 
Lysodren  is  explicitly  quoted  in  four  of  the  studies  (Haak,  Hermans  et  al.  1994;  Barzon,  Fallo  et  al. 
1997; Khan, Imam et al. 2000; Terzolo, Pia et al. 2000). None of these articles explain the method of 
access by which the product was made available to the patients. 
Bristol  Myers  Squibb  sent  a  letter  to  the  Applicant  indicating  that  no  change  has  been  made  to  the 
Lysodren formulation since July 1970.  
The Applicant has been able to get more information on the formulation used in the clinical trials after 
contacting the authors of the articles: 
- 
- 
All investigators from the USA have used Lysodren, which is the only commercially available 
formulation  in  this  country,  and  references  reviewed  in  the  present  review  encompass 
approximately 500 patients. 
In the EU, papers corresponding to the following references of the present application have used 
Lysodren with certainty (personal confirmation by the authors to the Applicant, or indication in 
the publication): 
o
o
o
o
o
o
Ilias et al. in Greece. 
Terzolo et al. and Beruti et al. in Italy;  
Barzon et al. in Italy 
Ahlman et al . in Sweden; 
Khan et al. in Sweden; 
Haak et al. in the Netherlands; 
Finally,  five  years  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  (PSUR)  submitted  to  the  third  countries  were 
Lysodren is authorised and covering the period from 8 July 1997 until 7 July 2002 was included in the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Application  for  Lysodren.  This  PSUR  contained  spontaneous  adverse  drug 
reaction  reports  observed  in  the  EU  confirming  that  mitotane  is  currently  used  in  the  EU  for  the 
treatment of adrenocortical carcinoma. 
In  conclusion,  the  Applicant  mentioned  that  the  product  was  currently  used  and  prescribed  in 
compassionate  use  programmes  in  several  EU  member  states.  The  Applicant  did  not  provide  other 
evidence  than  the  articles  published  in  the  scientific  literature  (i.e.  it  is  mentioned  in  the  articles 
published  in  France  that  mitotane  was  provided  by  the  Pharmacie  Centrale  des  Hôpitaux  de  Paris 
which belonged to the Assistance Publique not to a Pharmaceutical Company) and the Periodic Safety 
Update  Report  to  support  this  claim  but  these  elements  of  information  confirm  the  existence  of  a 
compassionate  use  in  the  EU.  Some  CPMP  members  confirmed  the  existence  of  compassionate  use 
programmes supervised by their National Competent Authority during the discussions at the CPMP. 
Quantitative aspects of the use of mitotane 
Adrenocortical  carcinoma  is  a  rare  tumor,  its  true  incidence  was  estimated  to  be  approximately 
between 0.5 and 2 cases per million per year according to the Third National Cancer Survey conducted 
in  1975  (National  Cancer  Institute  1975,  Finnish  Cancer  Registry  and  National  Board  of  Health  and 
Welfare, the Cancer Registry: cancer incidence in Sweden 1984 (the last two references are quoted in 
Barzon, Fallo et al. 1997). Therefore, assuming an annual incidence of a maximum of 2 cases/million 
persons per year, in the European Union (350 million inhabitants) an estimated 700 new patients per 
year may potentially benefit from a treatment with mitotane.  
Based on this incidence and taking into account all stages of the disease, considering that the 5 years 
and 10 years survival of the patients  are respectively 35 and  20% (Pommier and Brennan 1992), the 
6/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
calculated prevalence  of adrenal cortical carcinoma can be estimated to a maximum  of 0.1 cases per 
10,000  inhabitants.  Extrapolating  to  the  European  Union  population  (377  million  in  2001),  the 
estimated number of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma is approximately equal to 3,770 patients. 
The calculation of the estimate of the number of patients treated with mitotane in the EU was based on 
two  sources  of information: the  articles  published  in the scientific literature and the  worldwide sales 
figures. This estimate has to be put into perspective with the incidence and prevalence of the disease. 
None of these sources can provide an exact estimate of the number of patients who benefited from a 
treatment  with  mitotane.  The  number  of  patients  reported  in  the  articles  probably  suffers  from  an 
underestimation  of  the  real  number  of  patients  treated  with  the  product;  in  addition  these  worldwide 
sales  figure  only  concern  Lysodren  (and  no  other  mitotane  containing  medicinal  products).  The 
estimate based on the sales figures is made under some assumptions concerning the dose administered 
to the patients and the duration of treatment, both dose and duration and treatment are not known with 
certainty.  
The Applicant estimated that approximately 665 patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma were reported 
in the literature and  were treated with  mitotane since 1959 (i.e. more than 10 years) in the European 
Union.  The  five  years  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  covering  the  period  from  8 July 1997  until 
7 July 2002  contained  an  estimate  of  the  exposure  to  mitotane  in  the  EU  based  on  the  bulk  of 
worldwide sales. Assuming that all patients are adults with normal hepatic function receiving mitotane 
for inoperable adrenal cortical carcinoma, and that each patient received 10 grams daily for 365 days, 
the Applicant estimated that slightly more than 1,700 patients benefited from a treatment with mitotane 
a year in the United States of America and Canada (Lysodren is authorised in these two countries) over 
the period covered by the PSUR. From the previous five years Periodic Safety Update Report covering 
the period from 1992 until 1997, the Applicant estimated that 991 patients were treated with mitotane a 
year in the USA and in Canada. Using the same bulk worldwide sales and based on the estimates of the 
number  of  patients  treated  in  the  USA  and  in  Canada,  the  Applicant  estimated  that  more  than  2,500 
patients might have benefited from a one-year treatment by mitotane in the last 10 years in the EU. 
In  conclusion,  the  data  published  in  the  peer-reviewed  scientific  literature  demonstrates  that  an 
estimated  665  patients  with  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  were  treated  with  mitotane  since  1959  (i.e. 
more  than  ten  years)  in  the  European  Union.  The  sales  figures  included  in  the  PSUR  showed  that 
approximately 250 patients-year may benefit from a treatment with Lysodren in the community. The 
incidence and prevalence of the disease in the EU suggest that the estimated number of patients who 
may potentially benefit from a treatment with mitotane in the EU is approximately 700 new patients 
per year. 
Scientific interest 
A bibliographical research made in MEDLINE on the criteria “mitotane”, “o,p’-DDD” combined with 
“adrenocortical  carcinoma”  showed  that  529  and  549  articles  referencing  mitotane  or  o,p’  DDD  had 
been  listed  in  this  database.  The  combination  of  two  criteria  “mitotane”  or  “o,p’-DDD”  with 
“adrenocortical carcinoma” showed that 98 and 118 articles containing these key words were listed in 
the database. These articles illustrate that over the past forty years, several teams of worldwide medical 
researchers tried to define the place of mitotane (alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic 
agents) in the treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma, to assess its efficacy on the control of hormonal 
secretion and its possible effect on overall survival. Finally, during the past 10 years some teams tried 
to establish a possible pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relation for mitotane. The clinical relevance 
of the results of the data published in the literature and its implications on the use of mitotane in the 
treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma are further discussed in the clinical efficacy and safety parts of 
this report. 
Coherence of scientific assessments 
The  coherence  of  scientific  assessment  is  further  discussed  in  the  clinical  efficacy/clinical  safety 
sections  of  this  report.  As  stated  above,  the  exact  indication  of  mitotane  in  the  treatment  of  adrenal 
cortical  carcinoma  has  to  be  defined.  However,  since  its  first  use  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
7/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  in  1960  the  published  literature  consistently  insisted  on  the  potential 
therapeutic interest of this product in the treatment of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma in adults 
(see for example (Luton, Cerdas et al. 1990; Pommier and Brennan 1992; Haak, Hermans et al. 1994; 
Barzon, Fallo et al. 1997; Khorram-Manesh, Ahlman et al. 1998; Kasperlik-Zaluska 2000; Terzolo, Pia 
et  al.  2000;  Baudin,  Pellegriti  et  al.  2001;  Favia,  Lumachi  et  al.  2001),  or  in  children  (Teinturier, 
Pauchard et al. 1999; Ciftci, Senocak et al. 2001). 
Discussion on ‘well-established medicinal use’ 
The Applicant submitted an Application in which all the contents of the dossier relating to safety and 
efficacy  of  the  product  were  bibliographical.  In  addition,  the  Applicant  demonstrated  that  the  use  of 
mitotane  is  well  established  in  the  medical  practice  in  a  known  indication  (i.e.  adrenocortical 
carcinoma) with a strength and a pharmaceutical form in which mitotane has always been used, in view 
of the period of time over which it has been used and the information publicly available about its safety 
and efficacy (i.e. since 1960). 
The  applicant  has  submitted  the  relevant  literature  covering  all  aspects  of  the  safety  and  efficacy 
assessment, taking into account pre- and post-marketing studies and published scientific literature on 
the  experience  with  mitotane.  The  use  of  bibliographic  reference  to  the  experience  with  mitotane  to 
support  the  efficacy  and  safety  profile  has  been  justified  satisfactorily.  The  relevance  of  the  data 
submitted which concern a product different from Lysodren has been addressed satisfactorily.  
Systematic use of mitotane in the Community has been documented for more than ten years, starting 
in  1960.  Ever  since,  patients  with  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  were  treated  on  compassionate  use 
programmes  and  in  clinical  trials  trying  to  establish  the  clinical  benefit  that  may  be  obtained  with 
mitotane and the existence of a possible pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relation with this product.  
The  exact  indication  of  mitotane  in  the  treatment  of  this  disease  has  to  be  defined.  Although  the 
studies  published  with  mitotane  were  most  of  the  time  open,  non-randomised,  uncontrolled  studies 
including  at  best  a  limited  number  of  patients  (50-100),  the  articles  published  since  the  sixties,  and 
more recent  works  published  in the  nineties, established that  mitotane is clinically beneficial for the 
patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma.  
In conclusion, mitotane (the active substance contained in Lysodren) has a well established medicinal 
use, with recognised efficacy and an acceptable level of safety (see the scientific discussion included 
in  the  non-clinical  and  clinical  parts  of  this  report),  as  demonstrated  by  the  time  over  which  the 
substance  has  been  used,  quantitative  aspects  of  the  use  of  the  substance,  the  degree  of  scientific 
interest in the use of the substance, and the coherence of scientific assessments. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
This product is presented in the form of tablets containing 500mg of the active substance mitotane, in 
a  matrix  of  microcrystalline  cellulose  and  corn  starch,  with  polyethylene  glycol  3350  and  colloidal 
silicon dioxide as lubricant and glidant respectively. The tablets are packed in a primary container of 
HDPE with a metal closure. 
Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  mitotane  is  1-chloro-2-[2,2-dicloro-1-(4-chlorophenil)ethyl]benzene.  It  is  a 
white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder,  having  a  slight,  aromatic  odour.  It  is  practically  insoluble  in 
water, soluble in alcohol, ether, hexane and in fixed oils and fats.  These properties underline the effect 
of  the  particle  size  and  physical  form  on  the  dissolution  and  hence  the  bioavailability  of  the  active 
substance and therefore need to be tightly controlled to ensure the clinical safety and efficacy of the 
medicinal product. Mitotane is an‘established’ substance which is the subject of a  monograph in the 
USP, and full information has been provided in the form of an EDMF from the manufacturer. 
8/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
Synthesis  is  a  simple  process  starting  from  2-chlorobenzaldehyde,  chloroform  and  mono-
chlorobenzene.  The  manufacturing  process  is  carried  out  in  5  steps  (three  of  them  include  chemical 
reactions and the other two correspond to recrystallizations). 
The  chemical  structure  has  been  briefly  characterised  by  spectroscopic  means  especially  GC-MS, 
considered sufficient in this case, as it is monographed in the USP. 
Minimal  toxicology  data  permit  the  qualification  of  the  impurities  and  residual  solvents  specified  at 
the  limits  proposed.  However,  the  applicant  has  justified  the  impurity  levels  from  a  safety  point  of 
view and taking into account the therapeutic indication of the product and its use in Europe for more 
than 30 years, it may be considered in general that there are no additional safety concerns arising from 
impurities in the use of mitotane for the therapeutic indication proposed.  
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  relevant  tests  for  identity  (IR,  UV),  assay  (GC), dimeric 
related  substance  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  etc.  The  routine  tests  are  performed  in  accordance  with 
the  USP  monograph.  The  additional  in  house  analytical  methods  have  been  adequately  validated. 
However, the omission  of  relevant tests for relevant  physical properties  particularly particle  sizewas 
noted and recommended to be resolved after the opinion as a followup measure. 
Other ingredients 
All  materials  used  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  Eur.  Ph  requirements.  Magnesium 
stearate is of vegetable origin. 
The tablets are packaged in white high-density polyethylene (HPDE) bottle closed with a screw metal 
closure system.  
Stability 
Long term and accelerated stability studies have been carried out according to the CPMP/QWP/556/96 
Guideline.  Four  batches  have  been  studied.  Taking  into  account  the  results  submitted,  it  could  be 
concluded that no significant changes have occurred in the active substance content.  
However,  there  is  some  doubt  as  to  whether  the  analytical  methods  can  be  regarded  as  stability 
indicating.  The  proposed  re-test  period  of  3 years  is  not  acceptable  since  degradation  products  have 
not  been  controlled,  and  hence  the  active  substance  should  be  tested  immediately  before  use  in  the 
manufacturing of the finished product, until such time as a validated retest period can be agreed. 
Medicinal Product 
Product development and finished product 
Limited data have been provided for the development pharmaceutics. However this could be accepted 
based on the fact that the medicinal product is well known and has been marketed in the EU for many 
years. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  finished  product  is  a  conventional  process  consisting  of  the 
following steps: milling of the drug susbstance and blending it with microcrystalline cellulose. Milling 
and blending of the mixture with the remaining ingredients, slugging, screening, blending of the slugs 
and finally compressing. The process is monitored by appropriate in process controls. 
 The process validation of Lysodren tablets was performed on three production batches. The validation 
data  concern  critical  parameters  like  the  blending  time  and  the  tabletting  operation.  The  results 
obtained confirm the suitability of the process to produce a product of consistent quality that meets the 
pre-defined acceptance criteria.  
Product specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  the  description,  uniformity  of 
content  (UV),  identification  (IR),  disintergration,  loss  on  drying,  assay  (UV,  HPLC)  and  impurities 
(HPLC).    The  limits  for  each  specification  test  are  supported  by  data  derived  from  stability  studies.  
However, according to ICH guidelines since the active substance is practically insoluble in water the 
9/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
relationship  between  disintegration  and  dissolution  needs  to  be  further  investigated  to  guarantee  the 
release of the active substance. This issue will be addressed as a follow up commitment. 
Batch analysis data from six stability and one commercial scale batches of the finished product have 
been provided. All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification.  
Stability of the product 
Three batches of the finished product in the proposed for marketing packaging have been placed under 
stability studies in long term (25ºC, 60%RH) and accelerated conditions (40ºC, 75%RH) according to 
ICH  guidelines  for  up  to  two  years.  Results  from  supportive  stability  studies  on  three  batches 
packaged in glass bottles and stored in long term conditions have also been presented.  
The tests used to evaluate the product at the end of shelf life were the routine ones (except uniformity 
of  content  and  identification)  and  two  new  tests:  loss  on  drying  and  impurities  determination.  All 
methods employed were stability indicating. 
All  the  results  from  the  stability  and  supportive  batches  were  within  specifications.  Based  on  the 
results  of  the  above-mentioned  studies  it  has  been  concluded  that  the  proposed  shelf  life  for  the 
commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC is acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Despite  the  fact  that  this  is  an  established  substance  described  in  the  USP,  some  deficiencies  in  the 
quality dossier have been identified at the time of the CPMP opinion. The most important is perhaps 
the absence of physical characterisation and routine control of such a poorly soluble active substance. 
It may be unethical to perform bioavailability studies in humans with such a toxic substance in order 
to confirm in vitro – in vivo correlations. On the other hand, this makes it all the more necessary to 
fully  control  as  many  in  vitro  characteristics  as  possible,  especially  the  physical  ones,  by  means  of 
relevant and validated methods. 
A number of other minor quality issues were also not resolved at the time of the opinion. 
On  balance,  the  CPMP  has  reached  their  opinion  on  the  basis  of  an  ‘overall’  benefit/risk  balance, 
taking  into  account  the  clinical  usefulness  of  this  product  in  the  proposed  indication,  and  accepting 
that some  quality deficiencies have not been fully resolved at the time of the opinion. Consequently 
the  applicant  has  been  required  to  give  a  commitment  to  resolve  these  outstanding  quality  concerns 
within a defined timeframe, as post-opinion followup measures. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacologocial aspects 
Introduction 
the  active  substance  mitotane  or  o,p’-DDD 
(1-(o-chlorophenyl)-1-(p-
Lysodren  contains 
chlorophenyl)-2,2-dichloroethane).  Mitotane  is  an  isomer  of  an  insecticide,  DDT  or  1,1,1,-trichloro-
2,2-bis(4chorophenyl)ethane  (p,p’-DDD).  The  potential  of  mitotane  to  affect  the  adrenals  was  first 
noted  by  Nelson  and  Woodard  (1948);  these  authors,  working  with  technical  grade  DDD,  observed 
adrenocortical atrophy in dogs. Subsequent studies showed that the active component was o,p’-DDD, 
an impurity in technical grade product. 
Pharmacology 
Since  these  initial  observations,  several  publications  confirm  the  adrenalytic  activity  of  mitotane, 
particularly  in  dogs.  Histological  examination  showed  a  disruption  of  normal  cellular  structure  and 
arrangement  in  the  innermost  zones  of  the  adrenal  cortex  (zonas  fasciculata  and  reticularis).  The 
earliest observable ultrastructural change in the dog adrenal cortex was the swelling, dissolution and 
rupture of mitochondria in the zona fasciculata-reticularis area. These changes were correlated with a 
reduction  of  the  adrenal  output  of  17-hydroxy  steroid  and  an  inhibition  of  ACTH-induced  steroid 
production. 
10/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies  on  the  mechanism  underlying  this  action  on  the  adrenals  have  suggested  metabolism  within 
the adrenals to generate reactive intermediates, which are capable of covalent binding to mitochondrial 
macromolecules.  Thus,  in  vitro studies  with  bovine  adrenal cortex  homogenates, as well as those of 
dog,  rat  and  human,  identified  2,4-dichlorodiphenyl  acetic  acid  (o,p’-DDA)  as  a  metabolite  of 
mitotane. It was demonstrated that the mitochondrial fraction of dog adrenal cortex homogenates were 
responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  mitotane  and  generation  of  o,p’-DDA.  Moreover,  metabolism  of 
mitotane  in  adrenal  mitochondria  was  seen  to  correlate  with  the  generation  of  covalent  binding 
species.  By  correlating  the  generation  of  o,p’-DDA  and  covalent  binding  by  adrenal  homogenates 
across  different  species  with  the  recognized  sensitivity  of  these  species  to  the  adrenolytic  effect  of 
mitotane and comparing the generation of the corresponding DDA isomers from mitotane and its m,p’ 
and  p,p’  isomers,  data  emerged  consistent  with  and  acyl  chloride  being  the  reactive  intermediate, 
leading to both the DDA metabolite and binding to adrenal cortical bionucleophiles. 
In addition to these  effects within the  adrenal  gland,  mitotane  also induces enzymes involved  in the 
metabolism of drugs that could affect the levels of circulating steroids. Enhanced cortisol metabolism 
has also been reported in rats and guinea - pigs. 
Studies with well-characterised cell lines as regards genotype and biochemistry are limited. This lack 
of data can be justified taking into account the clinical experience. 
In  vivo  studies  to  assess  the  activity  of  mitotane  in  different  tumour  cell  lines  as  requested  in  the 
Guideline  CPMP/SWP/997/96  (Note  for  Guidance  on  the  pre-clinical  evaluation  of  anticancer 
medicinal  products)  have  not  been  conducted.  The  lack  of  such  data  can  be  justified  taking  into 
account the clinical experience gathered with this product over the past 30/40 years. 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Hart et al (1973) studied the effects in dogs of single intravenous doses of 60 mg/kg of mitotane (o,p’-
DDD)  and  its  m,p’-  and  p,p’-isomers  on  ACTH-induced  steroid  production  and  histology  of  the 
adrenal cortex. All 3 compounds eventually inhibited ACTH-induced steroid production but the order 
of  onset  of  inhibition  was  m,p’-DDD>mitotane>p,p’-DDD  with  inhibition  reaching  50%  of  control 
values at 27 minutes, 87 minutes and 4-18 hours, respectively. The order of onset of histological and 
ultrastructural changes within the adrenals was also in the same order. There was a marked temporal 
correlation between the percentage inhibition of ACTH-induced steroid production, the disruption of 
normal cellular structure and arrangement in the zonae fasciculata and reticularis, and the severity of 
the  DDD-induced  mitochondria  damage  in  the  cells  of  the  inner  two  zones  of  the  adrenal  cortex  by 
each of the 3 isomers of DDD. The ultrastructural damage to mitochondria was detected prior to the 
observation  of  histological  lesions.  Cai  et  al  (1995)  studied  the  same  three  isomers  in  bovine 
adrenocortical  homogenates  for  their  transformation  into  the  corresponding  bis-dichlorodiphenyl 
acetic acid (DDA) and the generation of covalent binding species. The order of both DDA formation 
and covalent binding was mitotane>m,p’-DDD>p,p’-DDD. Moreover, the effects of the three isomers 
on cell growth and cortisol production with the human adrenocortical carcinoma cell line, NCI H-295, 
followed  the  same  order  as  their  DDA  formation  and  tissue  binding.  In  addition  to  these  data 
correlating  effect  and  covalent  binding  across  isomers  of  mitotane,  as  mentioned  above,  Martz  and 
Straw (1980) correlated covalent binding in vitro with the recognized differences in susceptibility of 
different species to the adrenolytic effect of the drug. Thus, levels of metabolism and covalent binding 
of  14C-o,p’-DDD  measured  in  human  adrenal  mitochondria  were  intermediate  between  levels 
measured in dogs and rabbits and those measured in the least responsive species, i.e., rats and guinea 
pigs.  Rabbits  are  moderately  sensitive  to  the  adrenocorticolytic  effect  and  rats  are  essentially 
unresponsive. 
Taken together, these data are supportive of the formation of reactive metabolites within the adrenal 
cortex,  leading  to  covalent  binding,  suppression  of  adrenal  function  and  the  observed  histological 
changes. 
Studies  of  mitotane  metabolism  in  vivo,  as  discussed  further  below,  identified  2,4-dichlorodiphenyl 
acetic acid (o,p’-DDA) as a major metabolite of mitotane. This was also observed in in vitro studies 
with bovine adrenal cortex homogenates (Cai et al, 1995), as well as those of dog, rat and human (Cai 
11/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
et  al,  1995).  Working  with  perfused  dog  adrenals  in  vitro,  Sinsheimer  and  Freeman  (1987)  also 
identified  o,p’-DDA  as  a  metabolite.  Martz  and  Straw  (1977)  demonstrated  that  the  mitochondrial 
fraction  of  dog  adrenal  cortex  homogenates  were  responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  mitotane  and 
generation  of  o,p’-DDA,  whilst  the  microsomal  and  soluble  fractions  were  inactive.  Examining 
possible  routes  to  generate  o,p’-DDA  from  mitotane,  Cai  et  al  (1995)  proposed  that  there  is 
hydroxylation  of  the  methane  hydrogen  followed  by  spontaneous  dehydrohalogenation  leading  to  a 
reactive  acyl  chloride  which  subsequently  transforms  into  o,p’-DDA  in  the  presence  of  water.  The 
reactive  acyl  chloride  could  lead  to  both  DDA  metabolite  formation  and  binding  to  adrenal  cortical 
bionucleophiles. 
Touitou  et  al  (1978)  examined  human  adrenal  glands  in  vitro,  from  both  mitotane  treated  and 
untreated patients with Cushing’s syndrome (adrenal adenomas, hyperplasias or carcinoma) and from 
normal subjects who died following road accidents (control adrenals). As compared to adrenals from 
untreated  Cushing’s  patients,  those  from  mitotane  treated  patients  produced  markedly  reduced 
quantities  of  cortisol  and  cortisone  from  11-deoxycortisol  (1.1-3.4  and  0.5-0.9%  conversion  of 
precursor  to  cortisol  and  cortisone,  respectively,  as  compared  to  34-64  and  2.5-7.3%  in  untreated 
patients; conversion in control  adrenals were 11-12 and 1.5-2.2%). Synthesis of aldosterone and  18-
hydroxycorticosterone from corticosterone were also reduced in adrenals from treated patients. These 
data  are  consistent  with  inhibition  of  both  11β-hydroxylase  and  18-hydroxylase  activities  Hart  and 
Straw  (1971)  and  Hart  et  al  (1971)  also  showed  inhibition  of  11β-hydroxylase  activities,  but  also 
suggested an inhibitory effect on the transformation of cholesterol into pregnenolone. 
Overall, these data are consistent with formation of a reactive metabolite within the adrenal gland and 
covalent binding to macromolecules resulting in an inhibitory effect on steroid synthesis. Moreover, it 
is  clear  from  the  histological  evidence  that  this  metabolism  within  the  adrenal  gland  results  in  a 
targeted  adrenolytic  effect.  However,  in  addition  to  these  effects  within  the  adrenal,  mitotane  also 
induces drug metabolizing enzymes, which could affect the levels of circulating steroids. Kupfer et al 
(1964) treated guinea pigs with 300 mg/kg/day of mitotane intraperitoneally for 5 days followed by 50 
mg/kg/day for 7 days. An initial fall in urinary cortisol levels was seen without any concomitant effect 
on  cortisol  metabolites.  This  progressed  on  continued  treatment  to  a  sustained  decrease  in  cortisol 
levels with an increase in metabolite levels; in particular, there was an increase in 6β-hydroxy cortisol, 
an inactive metabolite of cortisol. A similar increase in urinary 6β-hydroxycortisol excretions has been 
reported in mitotane treated humans (Bledsoe et al cited by Kupfer & Peets, 1966). Enhanced cortisol 
metabolism  has  also  been  reported  in  the  rat  (Kupfer  &  Peets,  1966),  together  with  a  more  general 
liver enzyme induction as shown by effects on barbiturate metabolism (Kupfer & Peets, 1966; Straw 
et al, 1965). However, these effects in rat and guinea pig were seen in species, which are resistant to 
the  adrenolytic  effects  of  mitotane.  Similar  inducing  effects  have  been  reported  for  p,p’-DDD 
(Azarnaoff et al, 1966). 
Impact on the adrenals 
The  original  observations  of  Nelson  and  Woodard  (1948;  1949)  arose  from  a  study  in  eleven  dogs, 
which  received  doses  of  technical  grade  DDD  of  50  to  200  (usually  50  or  80)  mg/kg/day  orally  for 
periods of 1 to 38 months. Ten of the animals died or were sacrificed during this period; an unusually 
consistent  and  severe  atrophy  of  the  adrenal  cortex  was  observed  in  each  animal  at  post-mortem. 
Histological  examination  of  the  adrenals  showed  the  adrenal  cortical  parenchyma  to  be  one-third  to 
one-half  its  usual  thickness,  with  much  distortion  of  the  normal  architecture  and  alteration  of  the 
normal cellular appearances. The adrenal medulla appeared unaffected. These authors also commented 
(Nelson  &  Woodard,  1948)  that  rats  and  monkeys  given  DDD  did  not  show  the  same  changes,  nor 
were they seen in dogs administered the related insecticide DDT. 
Kaminsky et al (1962) administered 200 mg/kg/day of technical grade DDD to dogs and followed the 
effects  of  DDD  during  the  first  few  days  of  administration  by  a  combination  of  adrenal  biopsy  and 
examination of adrenals after sacrifice. The earliest ultraestructural change in the adrenal cortex was 
observed  in  the  mitochondria.  Thus,  twelve  hours  after  the  first  dose,  mitochondria  in  the  zona 
fasciculata  began  to  undergo  dissolution  and  by  twenty-four  hours  the  mitochondria  of  the  zona 
fasciculata  were  essentially  destroyed  with  only  remnants  of  mitochondrial  membranes  remaining. 
After 2 and 4 days treatment, findings were similar but more severe, and by 12 days the cells of the 
zona  fasciculata  were  shrunken,  with  abnormal  nuclei,  altered  cytoplasmic  lipid  droplets  and  sparse 
12/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intracellular  organelles.  At  this  time  the  zona  glomerulosa  was  also  abnormal  with  swollen 
mitochondria  and  abnormal  lipid  droplets,  but  this  area  was  less  severely  affected  than  the  zona 
fasciculata.  In  2  dogs  in  which  treatment  was  stopped  after  3  doses,  the  adrenals  appeared  almost 
normal 12 weeks later.  
The  above  findings  relate  to  studies  carried  out  with  technical  grade  DDD.  Nichols  and  Hennigar 
(1957) and Cueto and Brown (1958) worked with technical DDD and its fractions and identified o,p’-
DDD  (mitotane)  as  the  active  fraction,  whilst  purified  DDD,  the  p,p’-DDD  isomer,  was  inactive.  In 
the experiments of Cueto and Brown (1958), 4 mg/kg/day of mitotane induced changes in the adrenals 
of dogs and inhibited the 17-hydroxy corticosteroid response to administered ACTH.  
Vilar and Tullner (1959) administered 5 to 100 mg/kg/day of mitotane to dogs for periods  of 2 to 6 
days.  Whilst  the  5-mg/kg/day  doses  were  inactive,  the  higher  doses  produced  histological  changes 
within  the  zonas  fasciculata  and  reticularis,  and  did  not  affect  the  zona  glomerulosa;  these  changes 
correlated with a decreased distribution of 3β-hydroxy sterols (as detected by the digitonin reaction) in 
these  areas.  Furthermore,  the  adrenal  venous  output  of  17-hydroxy  steroids  was  reduced,  both  basal 
output  and  in  response  to  ACTH  injection.  ACTH  failed  to  alter  the  low  secretion  rate.  Even  in  the 
presence  of  minimal  histological  lesions,  the  output  of  17-hydroxy  steroids  was  reduced  to  levels 
previously observed in the same laboratory in the acutely hypophysectomized dog. Komissarenko et al 
(1968) confirmed these findings in a study involving 30 days administration of 50 or 100 mg/kg/day 
of  mitotane  to  dogs.  Administration  for  one  week  decreased  plasma  cortisol  to  unmeasurable  levels 
and  completely  suppressed  the  corticosteroid  response  and  eosinopenic  reaction  to  ACTH  injection. 
Post-mortem  examinations  confirmed  adrenal  atrophy,  with  the  zona  reticularis  being  less  affected 
than  other  areas  of  the  cortex.  Whilst  the  50  mg/kg/day  dose  was  satisfactorily  supported  by  the 
animals,  the  100  mg/kg/day  dose  caused  death  after  2-3  weeks  treatment  with  muscular  weakness, 
rejection of food, rapid emaciation, hypothermia, decrease of blood pressure and what are described as 
“other  symptoms  of  adrenocortical  insufficiency”.  Hart  et  al  (1973)  showed  inhibition  of  ACTH-
induced  steroid  output  and  ultrastructural  changes  in  the  adrenals  within  2  hours  of  intravenous 
injection of 60 mg/kg to dogs.  
These  studies,  therefore,  confirm  and  extend  the  original  observations  of  Nelson  and  Woodard  that 
DDD, through its active component mitotane, causes adrenal cortical atrophy in the dog. The studies 
focused  on  the  dog,  the  species  utilized  by  Nelson  and  Woodard,  but  these  authors  had  also 
commented on the lack of adrenolytic activity of DDD in the rat. No changes were seen in the adrenals 
of rats in the one month repeated dose toxicity study at dose levels of 0, 75, 150 and 300 mg/kg/day of 
mitotane, as discussed in Section IV.2, and Fregly et al (1968) reported no effect on adrenal weight in 
rats  after  6  weeks  dosing  with  68  or  182  mg/kg/day.  Although  Jensen  et  al  (1987)  reported 
mitochondrial destruction  in the adrenal zonas fasciculata and reticularis, with  no  effect on the zona 
glomerulosa after 14 days intraperitoneal administration of 300 mg/kg/day of mitotane to guinea pigs, 
these observations could not be confirmed by Schteingart et al (1993). 
As discussed below, several studies have addressed the possible mechanism of action of mitotane in 
producing these changes in adrenal function. Data indicate generation of reactive  metabolites within 
the adrenals resulting in covalent binding 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The Applicant did not submit any secondary pharmacodynamic studies. However, as described above 
mitotane appears to exert its therapeutic effect in adrenal carcinoma and Cushing’s syndrome through 
a dual action with an adrenolytic effect, which is restricted to susceptible species and the consequence 
of metabolism within the adrenals and generation of a reactive intermediate, and an induction of liver 
cortisol  metabolism  towards  inactive  metabolites,  an  effect  which  is  more  widely  observed  across 
species. Therefore, the pharmacodynamic properties of mitotane were considered to be known. 
Safety pharmacology 
The Applicant did not submit any safety pharmacology studies. Taking into account that mitotane has 
been  used  for  several  decades,  the  safety  profile  of  mitotane  can  be  considered  to  be  characterised 
through the therapeutic use. 
13/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The Applicant did not submit any pharmacodynamic drug interactions studies. The interaction profile 
of  mitotane  is  characterised  and  is  described  in  the  relevant  sections  of  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics for Lysodren. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Moy (1961) has described the pharmacokinetics of mitotane in a series of patients treated with various 
doses  of  drug  for  different  durations.  Overall,  he  estimated  that  approximately  35  to  40%  of  the 
product was absorbed after an oral administration. 
Limited  data  are  available  on  plasma  levels  of  mitotane  in  animals.  Watson  et  al  (1987)  studied 
absorption  of  mitotane  in  dogs  after  a  single  oral  dose  under  various  conditions  (see  Table  below). 
Mitotane was given by mouth at 50 mg/kg and plasma o,p’-DDD concentrations were determined by 
gas-liquid  chromatography.  A  single  dose  of  50  mg/kg  gave  low  plasma  levels  (AUC0-12h  of  2.39 
mg.h/l; Cmax of 0.4 mg/l) when administered as tablets to fasted dogs but levels were higher with pure 
drug dissolved in maize oil given by stomach tube. The levels were highest with ground tablets mixed 
in oil poured on dog food. When intact tablets were given in food, plasma levels were high (AUC0-12h 
of 48.78 mg.h/l; Cmax of 13.0 mg/l). Maximal plasma concentrations were reached 2.5 to 4 hours after 
dosing  and  the  apparent  elimination  half-life  was  approximately 2  hours.  There  were  no  differences 
between males and females with respect to AUC, Cmax or tmax. 
species 
Dog 
n 
6 
dose 
(mg/kg) 
50 
route 
Dosage method 
oral 
Tablets, fasting 
Pure drug in 
maize oil 
Ground tablets 
in oil with food 
Tablets in food 
Cmax 
(mg/l) 
0.4 (0.1) 
tmax 
(h) 
4.5 (0.3) 
AUC0-12 
(mg.h/l) 
2.39 (1.06) 
11.0 (0.6) 
2.8 (0.2) 
40.09 (3.15) 
15.4 (2.5) 
3.3 (0.6) 
63.90 (5.82) 
13.0 (1.5) 
3.7 (0.4) 
48.78 (2.79) 
Distribution 
Working with technical grade DDD, which is likely to behave similarly to o,p’-DDD itself, Finnegan 
et  al  (1949)  found  high  levels  in  adipose  tissue  of  both  rats  and  dogs.  Moy  (1961)  also  found  high 
levels of mitotane in adrenals in humans. The presence of mitotane was also observed in the adrenals, 
fat, liver and kidney following 25 days treatment of dogs with 80 mg/kg/day of mitotane; levels were 
the highest in fat tissues, followed by adrenals, then liver and kidney (Cueto and Brown (1958). It is 
interesting to note that o,p’-DDD was concentrated at a higher level in the tissues analysed than p,p’-
DDT, after administration of the same dose. Cueto and Brown states that the greater activity of o,p’ as 
compared to p,p’-DDD could be explained on the basis of the differences in distribution and storage of 
the isomers in tissues. 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
As  discussed  above,  several  studies  have  addressed  the  metabolism  of  mitotane  as  part  of 
investigations  aimed  at  determining  its  mechanism  of  action.  Thus,  2,4-dichlorodiphenyl  acetic  acid 
(o,p’-DDA)  has  been  identified  as  a  major  circulating  and/or  excreted  metabolite  in  several  species, 
including  rats,  rabbits  and  man  (Reif  &  Sinsheimer,  1975);  Sinsheimer  et  al,  1972;  Andersen  et  al, 
1999) and also, in studies with technical grade DDD, in mice (Gold and Brunk, 1982). o,p’-DDA was 
present  in  human  plasma  at  levels  3  to  10  times  those  of  mitotane  itself.  The  metabolite  o,p’-DDE 
(1,1-(o,p’-dichlorodiphenyl)-2,2  dichloroethene)  was  also  determined  in  human  plasma  by  High–
14/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance Liquid Chromatography (Andersen et al, 1999). No animal studies involving monitoring 
of plasma levels of o,p’-DDA and o,p’-DDE have been reported. 
In  addition,  hydroxylated  derivatives  of  o,p’-DDA  have  been  reported  in  urine  of  both  rats  (Reif  & 
Sinsheimer,  1975)  and  man  (Reif  et  al,  1974).  Several  other  minor  metabolites  and  conjugates  have 
also been reported. 
Several  reports  indicate  that  the  adrenolytic  effect  of  o,p’-DDD  may  be  due  to  metabolic  activation 
and subsequent covalent modification of macromolecules in the adrenal cortex. Cai et al (1995) have 
suggested that the reactive intermediate is an acyl chloride leading to both binding to macromolecules 
in  the  adrenal  cortex  and  the  generation  of  o,p’-DDA.  In  vitro  studies  have  correlated  the  species 
differences in ability to metabolise mitotane by adrenal preparations and generate reactive metabolites 
with the recognised in vivo differences in adrenolytic effects between these species. 
The factors that determine the tissue-selective bioactivation of o,p’-DDD in different species are little 
understood. 
Excretion 
Following the administration of a 100 mg oral dose of 14C-mitotane to rats, an average of 7.1% of the 
dose was excreted in urine and 87.8% in faeces within 8 days, with the majority appearing within the 
first  3  days  (Reif  &  Sinsheimer,  1975).  Autoradiographic  studies  in  mice  following  intravenous 
administration  of  14C-mitotane  showed  a  high  concentration  of  radioactivity  in  bile  and  intestinal 
contents, indicating significant biliary excretion (Lund et al, 1986). 
Pharmacokinetic drug interaction 
Enzyme induction 
As  already  noted,  mitotane  is  able  to  induce  the  metabolism  of  steroids,  particularly  enhancing  the 
transformation of cortisol to its inactive 6β-hydroxy metabolite (Kupfer et al, 1964; Kupfer & Peets, 
1966). This induction effect is, however,  more  general and  has also been reported with barbiturates. 
Thus, Straw et al (1965) reported that 3 days administration of 100 or 300 mg/kg/day of mitotane to 
rats reduced  pentobarbital sleeping time (86.9±9 minutes in controls as compared to 29±3 and 20±2 
minutes  after  100  and  300  mg/kg/day,  respectively);  corresponding  increases  in  liver  weight  and  in 
vitro  hepatic  metabolism  of  pentobarbital  were  noted.  Azarnoff  et  al  (1966)  showed  a  reduction  in 
hexobarbital  sleeping  time  after  3  days  administration  of  100  mg/kg/day  to  rats  (142±8  and  20±4 
minutes in control and treated animals, respectively); similar effects were reported for m,p’-DDD and 
p,p’-DDD, and for p,p’-DDA. Kupfer and Peets (1966) studied in vitro metabolism of hexobarbital in 
liver microsomes obtained from rats treated with 300 mg/kg/day of mitotane; metabolic activity was 
increased more in immature (about 60g body weight) than adult (about 200g body weight) animals. 
The effects of mitotane in repeated dose toxicity studies in rats are further discussed in this report but 
both studies performed suggested hepatic enzyme induction. Fregly et al (1968) administered 68 and 
182  mg/kg/day  in  the  food  for  6  weeks  and  observed  an  increase  in  thyroid  weight,  an  increase  in 
thyroidal uptake of administered 131I and an increase in excreted faecal radioactivity. The unpublished 
4  weeks  toxicity  study  in  rats  (0,  75,  150  and  300  mg/kg/day  by  gavage)  did  not  measure  thyroid 
weights;  livers  weights  were  not  increased  although  electron  microscopic  examination  did  show 
increased smooth endoplasmic reticulum at the 300 mg/kg/day dose level. 
Working with hepatocytes from Wistar-Furth rats, Ganem et al (1999) showed mitotane to share with 
phenobarbital the ability to increase the expression of the native CYP2B1/2B2 gene. 
Administration of mitotane to man can result in a reversible hypercholesterolaemia, mainly due to an 
increase  in  LDL-cholesterol  levels  (Maher  et  al,  1992).  Stacpoole  et  al  (1982)  showed  mitotane  to 
induce  3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme  A  reductase  activity  in  hepatic  microsomes  both  in 
15/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vitro and ex vivo after 4 days dosing with 50 or 200 mg/kg/day. The findings suggest that o,p’-DDD 
causes hypercholesterolaemia by increasing cholesterol synthesis. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Mitotane does not appear to have adrenal specific toxicity in rat and mouse. The analogues p,p’-DDD 
and p,p’-DDE were slightly toxic with oral LD50 values after oral dosing in mice of 1466-1507 and 
810-846 mg/kg, respectively (Tomatis et al, 1974). p,p’-DDT was moderately toxic with rat oral LD50 
of 116 mg/kg. 
Smith (Handbook of Pesticide Toxicology, Vol. 2, W. J. Hayes and E. R. Laws, Jr., Academic Press, 
New  York,  1991)  indicated  that  the  primary  acute  toxicity,  noted  in  animals  and  humans  following 
excessive exposures to chlorinated insecticides, is neurological hyperactivity. With DDT and related 
compounds the effects progress gradually from mild tremors to convulsions. 
Taking into account the clinical experience with mitotane and the fact that the dose dependent adverse 
reactions associated with mitotane administration are known the performance of single dose toxicity 
studies was not considered necessary. 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Two  published  studies  have  been  provided,  one  in  rats  with  6  weeks  administration  (Fregly  et  al, 
1968) and one in dogs with 4 weeks administration (Komissarenko et al, 1968). In addition, in order to 
provide data for the registration of mitotane in the USA, four-week studies were performed in the rat 
and dog; the reports on these studies are included in this application. 
Fregly et al (1968) studied the effect of isomers of DDD on thyroid and adrenal function in rats. They 
administered  68  or  182  mg/kg/day of  mitotane in  the  diet  (1  and  3  mg  per  kg  of food) to  rats for  6 
weeks. There were 8 male rats per dose level. Thyroid and adrenal glands were weighed at the end of 
treatment  and  whilst  adrenal  weights  were  unaffected  by  treatment,  thyroid  weights  were  increased 
(41  and  57%  increase  in  thyroid  to  body  weight  ratios  at  68  and  182  mg/kg/day,  respectively,  as 
compared  to  control  animals).  The  rate  of  oxygen  consumption  (measured  the  second  week  of 
treatment) and gain in body weight were unaffected by treatment. There was and increased intake into 
the thyroid of injected 131I, which was dose-related. The rate of loss of 131I from the thyroid gland was 
significantly faster  for  both  treated  groups  than  for controls,  in  a  dose-related  fashion.  These  results 
suggest  that  the  chronic  administration  of  o,p’-DDD  at  the  doses  used  resulted  in  a  compensated 
hypothyroidism in rats. There was no change in urinary 131I excretion although the faecal excretion of 
radioactivity was increased at the  high dose. The increase in thyroid  weight  may be associated  with 
increased  hepatic  metabolism  of  thyroxine,  but  specific  effects  on  the  thyroid  gland  have  not  been 
excluded. This publication also contains data on m,p’-DDD and p,p’-DDD administered to female rats 
for 24 weeks; increased thyroid weights were again observed. 
A  study  conducted  in  rats  was  not  carried  out  under  GLP,  groups  of  10  male  and  10  female  rats 
received 75, 150 or 300 mg/kg/day of o,p’-DDD by gavage for 4 weeks, with parallel control groups 
receiving vehicle. The drug o,p’-DDD was administered to the rats in corn oil. At the end of treatment 
6 rats  per group were killed  and the other 4 were kept  for a  4-week recovery period. The following 
parameters  were  measured:  alkaline  phosphatase,  serum  glutamic  oxalacetic  transaminase  (SGOT), 
creatinine,  glucose,  haematology  including  haematocrit,  haemoglobin,  differential,  bleeding  and 
clotting  time,  white  blood  cell  count.  There  was  no  effect  of  treatment  on  body  weight  or 
haematological  parameters.  Blood  biochemistry  showed  no  effect  on  SGOT,  but  there  was  an 
elevation of serum alkaline phosphatase in the three dose levels, which was dose-related and partially 
reversible  during  the  recovery  phase.  The  rats  receiving  a  dose  of  33  mg/kg/day  exhibited  a  63  % 
increase  in  the  serum  alkaline  phosphatase  activity  (week  4).  This  finding  is  generally  observed 
whenever chlorinated hycrocarbons are administered to animals. There were no changes in 17-keto or 
17-hydroxy corticosteroid excretion patterns. Organ weights, including adrenals, were unchanged by 
treatment. Thyroid weight was not assessed in this study. Macroscopic post-mortem examinations did 
not  show  drug-related  changes,  nor  did  histopathological  examinations  of  the  liver  or  adrenals. 
16/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electron  microscopic  examination  of  adrenals  and  livers  from  high  dose  animals  at  the  end  of 
treatment did not show any changes in the adrenals, but livers revealed consistently elevated quantities 
of  smooth  endoplasmic  reticulum  and  reduced  glycogen  content  as  compared  to  controls,  features 
consistent with induction of drug metabolising enzymes. 
reaction 
Komissarenko  et  al  (1968)  studied  the  effect  of  o,p’-DDD  on  the  function  and  morphology  of  the 
adrenal  cortex  as  well  as  on  hematomorphology  in  dogs.  They  administered  mitotane,  50  and  100 
mg/kg/day,  to  4  and  5  dogs  respectively,  for  30  days.  After  one  week,  plasma  cortisol  levels  were 
decreased  to  below the level  of detection  in both treated  groups  and the corticosteroid  response and 
eosinopenic 
to  ACTH  administration  were  absent.  Eosinophilia,  basophilia  and 
lymphocytosis  were  observed.  At  the  end  of  the  o,p’-DDD  treatment  was  observed  a  rise  of  the 
absolute  number  of  neutrophils.  The  authors  indicated  that  these  changes  in  blood  composition 
resemble those observed in adrenalectomized dogs, i.e. a sharp increase of eosinophils and a gradual 
rising  of  lymphocytes.  The  difference  found  was  the  significant  increase  of  the  absolute  number  of 
neutrophils  in  dogs  which  received  o,p’-DDD  for  30  days.  The  50  mg/kg/day  dose  level  was 
reasonably well tolerated for the full 30 days, but animals receiving 100 mg/kg/day died after two to 
three  weeks  treatment.  At  autopsy,  treated  animals  showed  no  pathological  changes  in  the  liver, 
kidney, brain or other organs, although mesenteric lymph nodes were somewhat enlarged. The adrenal 
cortex was atrophied, but the medulla was unaffected. The effect was greater at 100 mg/kg/day for 15 
days than at 50 mg/kg/day for 30 days. 
A study was conducted for the National Cancer Institute. The doses in the non-GLP 28-day dog study 
were 0, 10, 50 and 100 mg/kg/day, administered by capsule to groups of three male and three female 
animals  per  dose  level.  Two  animals  per  group  were  killed  after  28  days  and  the  remaining  animal 
kept  for  a  28-day  recovery  period.  Five  animals  receiving  100  mg/kg/day  died  during  the  dosing 
period (days 1, 14, 15, 16 and 17) and the dose level in the sixth was reduced to 75 mg/kg/day after 17 
days;  one  animal  receiving  50  mg/kg/day  died  on  day  23.  Animals  that  died  showed  a  decrease  in 
appetite  and  water  intake  in  the  days  prior  to  death.  There  was  no  marked  effect  on  body  weight, 
whether the animals survived or not. The following parameters were observed: alkaline phosphatase, 
serum  glutamic  oxalacetic  transaminase  (SGOT),  creatinine,  glucose,  haematology  including 
haematocrit,  haemoglobin,  differential,  bleeding  and  clotting  time,  white  blood  cell  count.  White 
blood  cell  numbers were  dose-relatedly and reversibly increased, being  most  pronounced in animals 
which  died;  there  were  no  other  changes  in  haematological  parameters.  Serum  glucose,  SGOT  and 
creatinine were unchanged by treatment, but serum alkaline phosphatase was dose-relatedly increased. 
Alkaline  phosphatase  activity  is  still  elevated  28  days  after  cessation  of  o,p’-DDD  administration. 
There was no marked effect on organ weights, although adrenal weights were slightly lower at the mid 
and  high  doses.  Histopathology  showed  several  changes  in  animals  that  died,  but  in  examining  all 
animals the major changes were seen in the adrenals, particularly at the high dose. In addition to the 
adrenal  changes,  the  dogs  on  high  dosage  had  involvement  of  the  liver,  with  atrophy  of  cells  and 
centro-lobular  and  midzonal  congestion.  The  changes  in  the  adrenals  were  confirmed  by  electron 
microscopy  with  adrenals  at  50  and  100  mg/kg/day  being  readily  distinguishable  from  controls 
because of the  massive accumulation  of electron  dense  material  in the region of the zona  reticularis 
and increased quantities of connective tissue and leukocytic infiltration. Cells of the zona fasciculata 
in dogs examined immediately after the final dose had mitochondria, which had a highly transparent 
matrix. The zona glomerulosa did not appear to be affected. 
Data  on  repeated-dose  toxicity  is  limited  to  studies  with  a  duration  of  4-6  weeks:  this  absence  of 
repeated-dose toxicity studies longer than 4-6 weeks duration can be considered to be acceptable in the 
light of the clinical experience involving longer term treatments. 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
One  report  in  the  literature  indicates  a  negative  effect  in  the  Ames  test  in  Salmonella  typhimurium 
strains TA100 and TA98, using rat liver or mouse lung and liver S9 fractions as metabolic activating 
systems (Lund et al, 1990). Thus, in a series of initial experiments, the mutagenic effect of o,p’-DDD 
was investigated in an Ames test, using rat S-9 to find suitable conditions for the further testing with 
mouse lung and liver homogenates. o,p’-DDD was shown to be non-mutagenic in TA98 and TA100, 
without metabolic activation in concentrations up to 25 µg/plate, and with a rat liver homogenate as 
17/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolizing system in concentrations up to 150 µg/plate. Above these concentrations, no Salmonella 
cells survived. In the presence of S-9, 25 and 3 µg/plate were the highest concentrations tested without 
any  signs  of  toxicity  towards  TA98  and  TA100,  respectively.  In  a  subsequent  Ames  test,  using  S-9 
from mouse lung and liver as activating system (0.375-1.5 mg protein/plate), the results were negative 
(Table 1). 
Table  1:  Incidence  of  revertants  using  mouse  liver  and  lung  S9  for  metabolic  activation 
(concentration-response to quantity of S9). 
Strain 
TA98 
TA100 
Concentration of 
mitotane 
(µg/plate) 
0 
25 
25 
25 
0 
3 
3 
3 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
S9 concentration 
(protein mg/plate) 
0.375 
0.375 
0.75 
1.5 
0.375 
0.375 
0.75 
1.5 
Revertants per 
plate with liver 
S9 
38 ± 6 
36 ± 7 
43 ± 7 
45 ± 8 
151 ± 11 
156 ± 18 
141 ± 17 
136 ± 9 
Revertants per 
plate with lung 
S9 
45 ± 7 
33 ± 5 
37 ± 10 
45 ± 8 
145 ± 10 
156 ± 17 
145 ± 25 
126 ± 11 
Taking  into  account  that  the  life  expectancy  in  the  indicated  population  is  short,  carcinogenicity 
studies are considered not required (see ICH S1A: Guideline on the need for Carcinogenicity studies 
of pharmaceuticals). 
Lund and co-authors (1990) detected the ability of o,p’-DDD to induce cell proliferation in the mouse 
lung. They studied the effects of o,p’-DDD on the DNA synthesis in the C57B1 mouse lung and liver. 
As  determined  by  3H-thymidine  incorporation  into  DNA,  a  selective  increase  in  the  lung  DNA 
synthesis (+59%) was observed 2 days after a single intraperitoneal injection of 100 mg/kg o,p’-DDD. 
Using  microautoradiography,  a  9  times  higher  rate  of  cell  proliferation  was  observed  in  the  lung  4 
days  after  an  intraperitoneal  injection  of  500  mg/kg  o,p’-DDD.  The  induced  cell  proliferation  may 
indicate a tumour-promotor activity of o,p’-DDD in the mouse lung. Moreover, a long-term study of 
the isomer p,p’-DDD  demonstrated  an  increased incidence  of  lung  and liver tumours in  mice, while 
p,p’-DDT and p,p’-DDE , a stable DDT metabolite, induced liver tumours (Innes et al., 1969; Tomatis 
et al., 1974).  
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Polychlorinated hydrocarbons compounds are known to have potential estrogenic activities. Mitotane 
has  been  reported  to  bind to the rat  uterine  estrogen receptor (Nelson cited  by Johnson et  al, 1992). 
Johnson  et  al  (1992)  studied  two  estrogenic  actions,  initiation  of  implantation  and  maintenance  of 
pregnancy, using the hypophysectomized, delayed-implanting rat model. The animals were exposed to 
several polychlorinated hydrocarbons. o,p’-DDD was nearly devoid of estrogenic activity for initiating 
implantation. Chen and co-authors (1997) determined whether the DDT isomers p,p’-DDT, o,p’-DDT, 
p,p’-DDD,  o,p’-DDD,  p,p’-DDE,  o,p’-DDE,  and  p,p’-DDA,  could  bind  to  and  transcriptionally 
activate the human estrogen receptor. The results from competitive binding assays showed that o,p’-
DDD,  o,p’-DDE,  and  p,p’-DDT,  as  well  as  the  established  estrogenic  o,p’-DDT,  were  able  to  bind 
specifically  to  the  hER  with  approximately  1000-fold  weaker  affinities  of  the  hER  than  that  of 
estradiol.  The  relative  affinities  of  o,p’-DDT,  o,p’-DDD,  o,p’-DDE,  and  p,p’-DDT  for  the  receptor 
were  similar.  In  contrast,  only  o,p’-DDT,  but  not  p,p’-DDT,  bound  to  the  rat  estrogen  receptor. 
Moreover,  two  yeast  expression-reporter  systems,  constructed  to  test  if  the  DDT  isomers  and 
metabolites could transcriptionally activate the human estrogen receptor (hER), demonstrated that an 
o,p’-DDT metabolite could transactivate the hER with a 140- to 300-fold weaker potency than that of 
estradiol.  The  DDT  isomers  and  metabolites  that  bound  the  hER  in  vitro,  including  o,p’-DDD, 
18/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
triggered  estrogen  receptor-mediated  transcription  of  the  lacZ  reporter  gene  in  the  yeast  systems. 
These compounds also stimulated two estrogenic endpoints in estrogen-responsive human mammary 
MCF-7  cells:  the  induction  of  the  progesterone  receptor  and  the  down-regulation  of  the  hER.  The 
studies  with  DDT  isomers  and  metabolites  conducted  in  rodent  models  may  not  represent  the  true 
potency of these compounds in humans. The difference in binding of DDT isomers and metabolites to 
the  rat  versus  the  human  ER  might  be  explained  by  the  eight  amino  acid  differences  in  the  ligand 
binding domain of the two receptors. 
In  general,  cytotoxic/cytostatic  substances  are  assumed  to  cause  reproductive  disturbances  (see  the 
CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  preclinical  evaluation  of  anticancer  medicinal  products 
(CPMP/SWP/997/96).  In  relation  to  the  possible  teratogenicity  of  mitotane  in  humans,  Leiba  et  al 
(1989) reported on a Cushing’s patient who had a therapeutic abortion and the embryo on examination 
was  observed  to  show  some  abnormalities  in  the  adrenal  cortex.  Thus,  the  histopathological 
examination  of  the  embryo,  aged  about  42  days,  revealed  a  dysmorphogenetic  event  in  the  cortical 
primordia characterized by pycnotic sympathoblasts. 
DDT and related polychlorinated biphenyls are known to have unwanted effects on pregnancy and the 
foetus. Mitotane should be used during pregnancy only when clearly needed and if the clinical benefit 
clearly outweighs any potential risk to the foetus. Women of childbearing potential should be advised 
to use effective contraception during treatment. The prolonged elimination of mitotane from the body 
after treatment discontinuation should be considered. 
DDT and related polychlorinated biphenyls have been detected in human milk (Polishuk Z. W. et al., 
1977,  Pesticides  Monitoring  10,  121-129)  as  well  as  in  the  placenta  of  pregnant  rabbits,  in  the  cord 
blood  of  newborns  and  in  stillborn  tissues  (Polishuk  Z.  W.  et  al.,  1977,  Environ  Res.  13,  278-284). 
Decreases in fetal body and organ weights were observed in rabbits following dosing of 1 mg/kg/day 
of DDT to maternal animals (Fabro S. et al., 1984, Am. J. Obstet. Gynecol., 148, 929). Other studies 
were  reported  that  indicated  decreased  lengths  of  gestation,  increased  resorption  rates,  preweaning 
mortality,  learning  impairment  in  mice  (Agency  for  Toxic  Substances  and  Disease  Registry,  U.S. 
Dept. of Commerce, NTIS PB90-182171, 1989). Moreover, Leiba et al (1989) reported on a Cushing’s 
patient who had a therapeutic abortion after o,p’ -DDD treatment and the embryo on examination was 
observed  to  show  some  abnormalities  in  the  adrenal  cortex.  Therefore,  mitotane  is  expected  to  be 
embriotoxic/teratogenic and to cause reproductive disturbances. 
Other toxicity studies 
In a series of studies, Lund et al (1986, 1989, 1990) studied covalent binding to tissues following in 
vivo  administration  of  14C-mitotane  to  mice  and  rabbits,  as  well  as  in  in  vitro  systems. 
Autoradiographic studies in mice showed selective accumulation of radioactivity in the lung (Lund et 
al,  1986).  Exhaustive  extraction  of  lung  tissue  showed  a  large  fraction  of  the  radioactivity  to  be 
covalently bound to protein; binding was also shown in the liver, though at levels 20-30 times lower. 
Inhibition of binding in metyrapone treated animals indicated formation of cytochrome P450 catalysed 
reactive  metabolites.  Further in  vitro studies with  mouse lung and liver S9 preparations  (Lund et al, 
1989)  demonstrated  an  oxidative  cytochrome  P450  mediated  formation  in  both  lung  and  liver  of 
mitotane metabolites that bound covalently to proteins, phospholipids and to added naked DNA. The 
apparent  Km  value  for  covalent  binding  was  lower  in  lung  than  liver  and,  moreover,  glutathione 
addition decreased binding more efficiently in liver than lung fractions; both factors could contribute 
to the difference in binding between these tissues, observed both in vivo and in vitro. The studies on 
mouse  lung  were  extended  to  the  rabbit,  allowing  a  more  detailed  examination  of  the  cell  types 
involved. Clara cells had the highest capacity to bind radioactivity following in vitro incubation with 
14C-mitotane,  followed  by  alveolar  type  II  cells  and  a  fraction  of  mixed  unidentified  lung  cells;  no 
binding was observed in alveolar macrophages (Lund et al, 1990). 
The  possible  consequences  of  this  covalent  binding  remain  unexplained  although  Lund  et  al  (1990) 
have  shown  increased  DNA  synthesis  in  mouse  lung  and  liver  following  a  single  intraperitoneal 
administration of 100 or 500 mg/kg of mitotane and have suggested this may indicate a tissue selective 
promoter activity in the mouse lung. 
19/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The potential of mitotane to affect the adrenals was first noted by Nelson and Woodard (1948). Since 
these  initial  observations,  several  publications  confirmed  the  adrenalytic  activity  of  mitotane, 
particularly  in  dogs.  Histological  examination  showed  a  disruption  of  normal  cellular  structure  and 
arrangement  in  the  innermost  zones  of  the  adrenal  cortex  (zonas  fasciculata  and  reticularis).  The 
earliest observable ultrastructural change in the dog adrenal cortex was the swelling, dissolution and 
rupture of mitochondria in the zona fasciculata-reticularis area. These changes were correlated with a 
reduction  of  the  adrenal  output  of  17-hydroxy  steroid  and  an  inhibition  of  ACTH-induced  steroid 
production. 
The  bibliographical  data  are  consistent  with  formation  of  a  reactive  metabolite  within  the  adrenal 
gland  and  covalent  binding  to  macromolecules  resulting  in  an  inhibitory  effect  on  steroid  synthesis. 
Moreover,  it  is  clear  from  the  histological  evidence  that  this  metabolism  within  the  adrenal  gland 
results in a targeted adrenolytic effect. 
In addition to these  effects within the  adrenal  gland,  mitotane  also induces enzymes involved  in the 
metabolism  of  drugs,  which  could  affect  the  levels  of  circulating  steroids.  Enhanced  cortisol 
metabolism has also been reported in rats and guinea - pigs. 
2,4-dichlorodiphenyl  acetic  acid  (o,p’-DDA)  has  been  identified  as  a  major  excreted  metabolite  in 
several species, including rats, rabbits and man and also, in studies with technical grade DDD, in mice. 
o,p’-DDA was present in human plasma at levels 3 to 10 times those of mitotane itself. 
Moy (1961) has described the pharmacokinetics of mitotane in a series of patients treated with various 
doses  of  drug  for  different  durations.  Overall,  he  estimated  that  approximately  35  to  40%  of  the 
product was absorbed after an oral administration. 
Watson  et  al  (1987)  studied  absorption  of  mitotane  in  dogs  after  a  single  oral  dose  under  various 
conditions (see Table below). Mitotane was given by mouth at 50 mg/kg. A single dose of 50 mg/kg 
gave  low  plasma  levels  (AUC0-12h  of  2.39  mg.h/l;  Cmax  of  0.4  mg/l)  when  administered  as  tablets  to 
fasted  dogs  but  levels  were  higher  with  pure  drug  dissolved  in  maize  oil  given  by  stomach  tube. 
Maximal plasma concentrations were reached 2.5 to 4 hours after dosing and the apparent elimination 
half-life was approximately 2 hours. Mitotane distributes in the adrenals, fat, liver and kidney.  
2,4-dichlorodiphenyl acetic acid (o,p’-DDA) has been identified as a major circulating and/or excreted 
metabolite in several species, including rats, rabbits and man. o,p’-DDA was present in human plasma 
at levels 3 to 10 times those of mitotane itself. The metabolite o,p’-DDE (1,1-(o,p’-dichlorodiphenyl)-
2,2  dichloroethene)  was  also  determined  in  human  plasma.  In  addition,  hydroxylated  derivatives  of 
o,p’-DDA have been found in urine of both rats. Several other minor metabolites and conjugates have 
also been reported. 
Following the administration of a 100 mg oral dose of 14C-mitotane to rats, an average of 7.1% of the 
dose was excreted in urine and 87.8% in faeces within 8 days, with the majority appearing within the 
first  3  days.  Autoradiographic  studies  in  mice  following  intravenous  administration  of  14C-mitotane 
showed  a  high  concentration  of  radioactivity  in  bile  and  intestinal  contents,  indicating  significant 
biliary excretion. 
The data suggest that mitotane could provoke metabolic interactions with concomitant medication and 
care should thus be taken in its clinical use. 
Target organs identified in the toxicity studies in rats and dogs were thyroid and liver.  
The published 6 week study in rats focuses on the effect of o,p’-DDD on thyroid and adrenal function. 
An increase was observed in thyroid weight, an increase in thyroidal uptake of administered  131I and 
an increase in excreted faecal radioactivity were also observed.  
20/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  published  4  week  study  in  dogs  focuses  on  the  effect  of  o,p’-DDD  on  the  function  and 
morphology of the adrenal cortex as well as on hematomorphology. After o,p’-DDD administration. 
Plasma  cortisol  levels  were  decreased  to  below  the  level  of  detection  in  treated  groups  and  the 
corticosteroid response and eosinopenic reaction to ACTH administration were absent. Eosinophilia, 
basophilia and lymphocytosis were  observed. At the end of the o,p’-DDD treatment was observed a 
rise  of  the  absolute  number  of  neutrophils.  At  autopsy,  the  adrenal  cortex  was  atrophied,  but  the 
medulla was unaffected. 
In the 28 days dog study a dose-dependent and reversible increase of white blood cell numbers was 
observed,  this  effect  was  most  pronounced  in  animals  that  died.  A  dose-related  increase  of  serum 
alkaline phosphatase was also observed. Alkaline phosphatase activity was still elevated 28 days after 
cessation  of  o,p’-DDD  administration.  Histopathology  showed  major  changes  in  the  adrenals, 
particularly at the high  dose. Moreover, the dogs on high dosage had  involvement  of the liver, with 
atrophy  of  cells  and  centro-lobular  and  midzonal  congestion  The  changes  in  the  adrenals  were 
confirmed by electron microscopy with massive accumulation of electron dense material in the region 
of the zona reticularis and increased quantities of connective tissue and leukocytic infiltration. Cells of 
the zona fasciculata in dogs examined immediately after the final dose had mitochondria which had a 
highly transparent matrix. The zona glomerulosa did not appear to be affected. 
One  report  in  the  literature  indicates  a  negative  effect  in  the  Ames  test  in  Salmonella  typhimurium 
strains TA100 and TA98, using rat liver or mouse lung and liver S9 fractions as metabolic activating 
systems. Carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with mitotane but considering that the life 
expectancy  of  the  patients  with  adrenocortical  carcinoma  is  short,  carcinogenicity  studies  are 
considered not required. Lund and co-authors (1990) detected the ability of o,p’-DDD to induce cell 
proliferation  in  the  mouse  lung.  The  induced  cell  proliferation  may  indicate  a  tumour-promotor 
activity of o,p’-DDD.  
Formal studies on the possible effects of mitotane on reproductive functions have not been performed. 
Polychlorinated  hydrocarbons  as  a  class  are  recognized  as  having  potential  estrogenic  activities. 
Mitotane is expected to be embryotoxic/teratogenic and to cause reproductive disturbances. Therefore, 
since  animal  studies  with  similar  substances  have  shown  reproductive  toxicity,  some  warnings  were 
included in the relevant sections of the summary of product characteristics for Lysodren. Lysodren is 
contraindicated with breastfeeding. Lysodren should be given to pregnant women only if the expected 
clinical  benefit  clearly  outweighs  any  potential  risk  to  the  foetus.  Women  of  childbearing  potential 
should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment. 
The  non-clinical  data  submitted  correspond  to  old  publications,  which  do  not  specify  the  GLP 
fulfilment. The CPMP considered that the lack of information regarding compliance with the current 
GLP did not impact on the validity of the results of these studies. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
As already stated in the introduction of this report, malignant neoplasms of the adrenal cortex such as 
adrenal cortical carcinoma  are rare;  they account  for  0.05 to 0.2 per cent  of  all cancers, and  show a 
bimodal age distribution, with the first peak occurring before the age of 5 years and the second in the 
fourth to fifth decade. There is a female predominance, accounting for 55 to 85 per cent of the cases, 
particularly  among  functional  tumours.  Men  with  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  tend  to  be  older  than 
women.  
Approximately  60  percent  of  patients  have  a  functional  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma,  defined  by  the 
existence  of  signs  of  excess  adrenal  hormone  production.  Among  functional  tumours,  Cushing’s 
syndrome  is  evidenced  in  half  of  the  patients  and  virilization  in  one  third  of  them,  whereas 
hyperaldosteronism, feminisation or the combination of Cushing’s syndrome and virilization account 
for  a  minority  of  patients.  Nearly  half  of  adult  carcinomas  are  non-functional,  and  these  patients 
present  clinically  with  abdominal  or  flank  pain  or  as  an  incidentally  discovered  adrenal  mass. 
21/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic  disease  to  the  lungs,  liver,  or  bone  may  cause  symptoms  before  the  primary  diagnosis  is 
made.  
Resectable  recurrences  are  usually  operated  on,  and  a  number  of  patients  remain  disease-free 
thereafter.  A  drug  therapy  is  often  administered  to  patients  whose  disease  is  unresectable  at 
presentation or at relapse. An overview of the published data with different  products is given below 
(see  tale  below).  Radiotherapy  is  only  indicated  as  palliative  treatment  for  patients  with  bone 
metastases.  
As stated in the well-established use justification of this document, mitotane is commonly prescribed 
for the treatment of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma. Other chemotherapy agents used in this 
indication are cisplatin, etoposide, doxorubicin and other. These are usually employed in combination 
regimens  (cisplatin-etoposide,  cisplatin-doxorubicin-5-FU,  ...)  able  to  induce  short  lived  objective 
responses  in  about  20-30%  of  patients  (or  even  higher  in  when  administered  concurrently  with 
mitotane).  The  toxicity  is  however  remarkable  in  this  palliative  setting  and  their  impact  in  disease 
progression, survival or quality on life remain unproven.  
Chemotherapy agents used in the treatment of adrenocortical carcinoma 
Investigations 
Drug 
Patients Efficacy 
Gutierrez and Crooke, 1980 
Luton et al., 1990 
Van Soolten et al., 1984 
Venkatesh et al., 1989 
Haak et al., 1994 
Kornely and Schlanghecke, 
1994 
Decker et al., 1991 
Stein et al., 1989 
Arit et al., 1994 
LaRocca et al., 1990 
Stein et al., 1989 
Schlumberger et al., 1991 
Mitotane 
Mitotane 
Mitotane 
Mitotane + Streptozocin 
Mitotane 
Suramin 
Doxorubicin 
5-Fluorouracil + Doxorubicin + 
Cisplatin 
Berruti et al., 1992 
Etoposide + Doxorubicin + Cisplatin 
Avico et al., 1992 
Berruti et al., 1998 
Oncovin + Cisplatin 
Epipodophyllotoxin 
Cytoxin 
Mitotane + Etoposide + 
Doxorubicin + Cisplatin 
Mitotane + Cisplatin 
37 
22-33% PR 
72 
29% PR 
2 
36 
21 
9 
16 
13 
3 
1 
28 
60% PR, few CR 
CR with surgery 
plus chemotherapy 
22% PR 
3 PR 
3 PR 
19% PR 
1 CR, 2 PR 
1 CR 
2 PR 
1CR 
2 CR 
13 PR 
1 CR 
Zidan et al., 1996 
CR, complete remission; PR, partial remission.  
Norton JA, Le Hop N. Adrenal tumors. De Vita VT, Hellman S, Rosenberg SA. Cancer: Principles & practice of oncology. 
6th ed. Lippincott Williams &Wilkins, Philadelphia 2001, page 1779. 
1 
The prognosis of adrenal cortical carcinoma tumours is generally poor in adults and somehow better in 
children. In a recent review of 7 large series, the mean survival was 18 months. Most series showed no 
statistically  significant  differences  based  on  patients’  age,  gender  or  tumour  functional  status. 
However, stage was an important prognostic predictor. For stages I to IV tumours, approximate 5-year 
22/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
survival was 30-45%, 12.5-57%, 5-18% and 0%, respectively. Surgical resection was the only therapy 
that significantly prolonged survival, particularly when disease was detected at stages II and I. Median 
survival  in  patients  with  unresectable  tumours  was  3  to  9  months,  whereas  after  complete  resection 
median survival was 13 to 28 months. 
Therefore in this context it is important in the light of the data published with mitotane to define the 
actual place and effectiveness of mitotane in the treatment of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Available information is very limited, and derives mainly from a study published in 1961 (Moy et al 
1961).  
Absorption 
In  the  study  published  in  1961,  absorption  and  excretion  and  tissue  levels  of  mitotane  were 
investigated  in  18  patients  with  metastatic  adrenal  cancer.  The  patients  ranged  in  age  from  8  to  56 
years. The intake dosage varies among patients, but the mean regimen schedule was 10 g of mitotane 
per day (13 patients). For oral use, mitotane was given in tablets (Lysodren) or in capsules containing 
0.5 g  of the dry powder. Some  patients received intravenous mitotane (courses up to 5 g/day). As it 
was frequently necessary to stop or lower the dosage of mitotane because of side effects or changes in 
the patients’ clinical status, the parameters were not calculated within all 18 patients. The number of 
patients used for the parameters calculation is shown in the table below. Samples were obtained from 
fat, tumour, adrenal, brain, and liver, in 7 cases brought to autopsy, and 13 samples of subcutaneous 
abdominal  fat  from  10  patients  by  autopsy/biopsy.  The  determination  of  the  mitotane  plasma 
concentrations was performed with a spectrophotometric method.  
Number 
of 
patients 
Dose 
Age 
range 
18 
10* 
g/day 
8-56 
Study characteristics 
Samples 
Study design 
Type of disease 
Serum, urine, stool 
emulsion, bile and 
cerebrospinal fluid.  
Tissue samples: fat, 
tumour, adrenal, brain 
and liver. 
There has not been an 
optimal sampling 
time. 
Metastatic adrenal 
cancer 
* Some patients received intravenous mitotane (courses up to 5 g/day). 
The  blood  levels  of  mitotane  from  13  patients,  who  were  able  to  maintain  a  dose  of  approximately 
10 g per day during a  stage  of treatment, were plotted  against the quantity  of mitotane  administered 
(expressed  in  grams).  It  was  not  possible  to  find  a  relationship  between  blood  levels  and  patient’s 
response  or  toxicity.  Variable  blood  levels  were  achieved  (up  to  140  mg/l  in  a  child  who  received 
large doses and did not respond to the treatment). In 4 patients in whom the drug was discontinued, 
serum levels could not be detected with the spectrophotometric method after 6 to 9 weeks. 
The main conclusions of this study were that 35 to 40 percent of the substance is absorbed from the 
gastro-intestinal tract. 
Use of different formulations in the clinical trials and bioequivalence. 
The same patients excreted about 10% of the daily dose as urinary metabolites. When this percentage 
was  compared  with  that  excreted  by  some  patients  receiving  courses  up  to  5g/day  mitotane 
intravenously  (urinary  excretion  was  about  25%),  it  appeared  that  about  40%  of  the  oral  dose  was 
absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  Accordingly,  faecal  excretion  amounted  to  66.5,  63.2  and 
62% in three patients taking 5, 10 and 15g/day of mitotane, respectively (Moy et al 1961). 
23/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main formulation used in this study  was the 0.5g capsules of the dry powder. However, tablets of 
mitotane  (Lysodren)  and  other  formulations  were  also  briefly  tested,  without  apparent  therapeutic 
advantage (Moy et al 1961). 
Literature  reports  often  do  not  indicate  the  formulation  of  mitotane  used.  However,  all  publications 
from  North  America  relate  to  Lysodren  (product  subject  to  of  the  present  application).  Similarly,  in 
some  European  countries  (Italy,  Netherlands),  publications  explicitly  refer  to  Lysodren.  The  various 
formulations  in  the  other  European  countries  are  unknown,  except  for  France  where  a  capsule 
formulation of mitotane has been provided by the Central Pharmacy galenic department.  
Distribution 
In  tissue  samples,  it  was  not  possible  to  find  a  relationship  between  tissue  levels  and  response. 
Analysis of tissue samples obtained by biopsy or at autopsy showed that mitotane distributed in most 
tissue but stored primarily in fat-containing tissues (Moy et al 1961). 
Elimination 
The  presumed  activating  metabolic  pathway  for  mitotane  involves  biotransformation  to  an  acyl 
chloride,  which  may  bind  covalently  to  macromolecules  in  the  adrenal  cortex  or  hydrolyse  to  form 
o,p’-DDA (Cai  et al  1995).  Other  metabolic pathway include glycine  conjugation  of  o,p’-DDA, and 
hydroxylation in the 3-, 4- and 5-position and dihydroxylation in the 3,4- and 4,5-position (Sinsheimer 
et al 1972; Reif et al 1974).  
Published studies indicate that in adrenal carcinoma patients the o,p’-DDA plasma concentrations are 
about 10 times higher than those of the parent compound (Andersen et al 1999; Inouye et al 1987). 
Patients treated intravenously and orally excreted the equivalent of about 25 and 10 per cent of their 
daily dose as urinary metabolite over 24 hours, respectively. A smaller percentage was identified also 
in a metabolised form in the faeces (Moy et al 1961). 
Approximately  25%  of  the  amount  absorbed  each  day  (about  40%)  appeared  in  the  urine  in  a 
metabolised form (possibly o,p’-DDA). Unchanged mitotane was not detected in the urine (Reif. et al 
1974). A variable amount of metabolite(s) (1% to 17%) was also excreted in the bile. No unchanged 
mitotane appeared in bile too (Moy et al 1961). 
Terminal plasma half-life was estimated to be ranging from 18 to 159 days. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Non-linearity  (dose-proportionality  and  time  dependency)  was  never  studied  as  such.  However,  in  a 
prospective study in 24 patients with adrenocortical carcinoma taking mitotane as first-line therapy (n 
= 13), or as adjuvant therapy ( n = 11), a correlation was observed between the highest plasma trough 
concentration and the cumulative daily dose of mitotane (r2 = 0.346; p = 0.0025) (Baudin et al 2001) 
suggesting a dose-proportionality. 
Special populations 
No  publication  investigating  the  pharmacokinetics  properties  of  mitotane  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal  or  liver  function  were  submitted  in  the  Application.  No  specific  pharmacokinetic  study  was 
conducted  in  children.  The  summary  of  product  characteristics  for  Lysodren  reflects  the  limited 
amount of clinical data in the paediatric population: “the safety and efficacy in patients under the age 
of 18 years have not been established and, at present only very limited data are available in this age 
group”. 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
As mentioned before (Baudin et al 2001), the daily dose of mitotane in patients was associated with 
the  highest  plasma  trough  levels.  No  correlation  was  found  between  plasma  concentration  and  age, 
gender or body mass index. This suggested that the daily dose accounted for a substantial part of the 
inter-patient variability in the plasma of mitotane concentrations. 
24/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction studies 
Mitotane stimulates the clearance of warfarin by hepatic enzyme induction, leading to an increase in 
dosage requirements for the anticoagulant (Cuddy and Loftus 1986). 
A  report  in  the  literature  suggests  that,  in  a  single  patient  bilateral  adrenal  hyperplasia,  the 
antimineralocorticoid spironolactone blocks the effect of mitotane and that, therefore the two products 
should  not  be  used  together  (Wortsman  and  Soler  1977).  Therefore,  this  association  has  been 
contraindicated in the summary of product characteristics for Lysodren. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The action of mitotane on the adrenals appears to result from both a direct effect leading to decrease in 
cortisol  production,  and  an  increase  in  cortisol  metabolism.  Most  available  information  is  based  on 
animal studies.  
Mechanism of action 
Data suggest that the drug acts as an adrenal cytotoxic agent suppressing the adrenal cortex, and it can 
also modify the peripheral metabolism of steroids. Its biochemical mechanism of action is unknown.  
Mitotane  appears  to  selectively  inhibit  adrenocortical  function  by  a  direct  cytotoxic  effect  and,  as  a 
consequence, inhibits production of corticosteroids. The product causes focal degeneration in the zona 
fasciculata and reticularis of the adrenal cortex with resultant atrophy. Technical grade DDD has long 
been  shown  to  induce  adrenocortical  atrophy  and  hepatic  damage  in  dogs  (Nelson  and  Woodward 
1948; Nelson and Woodward 1949). This specie is much more sensitive to the adrenocortical actions 
of mitotane than others like the mouse, rabbit, monkey or rat. The atrophy involved mainly the inner 
zones of the adrenal cortex and not the zona glomerulosa (Vilar and Tullner 1959; Kaminsky, Luse et 
al. 1962). The active component was shown to be o,p’-DDD (mitotane) an isomer and an impurity in 
the  technical  grade  DDD  (Nichols  and  Hennegar  1957;  Cueto  and  Brown  1958),  being  p,p’-DDD 
itself inactive.  
This  effect  may  be  mediated  through  covalent  binding  of  mitotane  metabolites  to  mitochondrial 
proteins.  The  metabolism  of  mitotane  was  seen  to  correlate  with  the  generation  of  covalent  binding 
species. The potential of the insecticide DDD (2,2-bis (parachlorophenyl)-2,2-dichloroethane) to affect 
the  adrenals  was  first  noted  by  Nelson  and  Woodard;  these  authors,  working  with  technical  grade 
DDD, noted adrenocortical atrophy in dogs. In animals, there is evidence that mitotane is transformed 
to  an  acyl  chloride  by  a  mitochondrial  P450-mediated  hydroxylation  and  that  the  acyl  chloride 
covalently combines with specific bionucleophiles within the adrenal cortical cell for the adrenalytic 
effect to take place. In human, o,p’-dichloro-diphenyl acetic acid (o,p’-DDA) has been identified as a 
metabolite  of  mitotane  (Sinsheimer,  Guilford  et  al.  1972).  The  generation  of  o,p’-DDA  by  adrenal 
homogenates across different species (bovine, dog, rat and human glands) has been correlated with the 
recognised sensitivity of these species to the adrenolytic effect of mitotane (Cai, Counsell et al. 1995).  
Mitotane has also been demonstrated to inhibit ACTH-induced steroidogenesis in the dog adrenals by 
preventing  the  intramitochondrial-induced  conversion  of  cholesterol  to  pregnenolone.  This  is  due  to 
the  generation  of  reactive  intermediate  metabolites  that  are  capable  of  covalent  binding  to 
mitochondrial macromolecules. 
Mitotane has also been shown to induce the metabolism of corticosteroids in animals (Kupfer, Balazs 
et  al.  1964;  Straw,  Waters  et  al.  1965),  thus  reducing  their  active  concentrations  and  possibly 
alleviating any effects consequent to their excessive production in cases of adrenal carcinoma. 
Such mechanisms of action imply that steroid compensation may be necessary when treating patients 
with mitotane. 
Therefore,  the  action  of  mitotane  on  the  adrenals  thus  appears  to  be  result  of  both  a  direct  effect 
resulting in a decrease in cortisol production and an increase in cortisol metabolism. In practical terms, 
25/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
such  mechanism  implies  that  steroid  compensation  may  be  necessary  when  treating  patients  with 
mitotane.  
Primary pharmacology 
The  Application  included  sixteen  references  dealing  with  human  pharmacodynamics,  only  three  of 
these references (Sinsheimer, Guilford et al. 1972; Bukowski, Wolfe et al. 1993; Cai, Counsell et al. 
1995)  actually  presented  studies  in  humans.  Sinsheimer  et  al  identified  o,p’-dichlorodiphenyl  acetic 
acid  as  the  principal  urinary  metabolite  of  the  insecticide  p,p’-dichlorodiphenyltritrichloroethane  in 
three patients. Cai et al explored the relationship of the metabolism of mitotane and its binding adrenal 
cortex  tissue  from  several  sources,  including  normal  adrenal  cortex  and  tumour  homogenates.  The 
objective  was  to  detect  the  mitotane  moiety  responsible  for  its  covalent  binding.  An  acyl  chloride 
appeared  to  be  the  reactive  moiety  of  mitotane,  which  led  to  both  DDA  metabolite  formation  and 
binding adrenal cortex bionucleophiles. (Bukowski, Wolfe et al. 1993) conducted a phase II study of 
chemotherapy with and without mitotane in 37 patients with adrenal cortex carcinoma. The combined 
regimen  has  activity  but  moderate  to  severe  toxicity  too.  Finally,  Van  Geertruyden  and  coll.  (Van 
Geertruyden,  De  Myttenaere  et  al.  1980)  report  on  one  case  of  adrenal  cortex  carcinoma  with 
hypercorticism, in whom treatment with mitotane led to temporary clinical and biological remission. 
(Feller, Hoekman et al. 1997) reported a case of a patient with adrenal carcinoma, whose single-cell 
suspensions  highly  expressed  a  glycoprotein  (Pgp)  implicated  in  drug  multiresistance.  In  vitro, 
mitotane  was  able  to  block  the  expression  of  the  protein  as  well  as  the  related  Pgp  resistance. 
However, according to the Applicant “these results did not translate in clinical use since in this patient 
mitotane  has  been  reported  to  be  inactive”.  Interestingly  enough,  this  paper  reports  that  mitotane 
normalised cortisol production but failed to induce tumor regression. 
Secondary pharmacology 
The  Applicant  did  not  submit  any  data  exploring  the  secondary  pharmacological  properties  of 
mitotane in humans. The absence of such studies was justified by the fact that mitotane has been used 
for several decades. 
Conclusion on pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics 
The only available pharmacokinetic data comes from a study performed in the early sixties providing 
information  that,  at  present,  is  clearly  insufficient.  Approximately  40%  of  the  drug  is  absorbed,  and 
approximately  10%  of  the  dose  is  recovered  in  the  urine  as  a  water-soluble  metabolite.  Active 
metabolite excreted in the bile varies from 1-17%. The substance is apparently stored in fat tissues, but 
mitotane can  be  found  in  most tissues. Many important aspects of the pharmacokinetics of mitotane 
have  not  been  investigated,  therefore  the  CPMP  requested  the  Applicant  to  commit  to  further 
characterise the pharmacokinetic profile of mitotane as a post-authorisation commitment. 
As far as the pharmacodynamic interactions are concerned, mitotane may increase the metabolism of 
warfarin,  causing  a  decrease  in  levels.  It  can  also  interact  with  spironolactone,  which  may  decrease 
mitotane effect. Finally, central nervous system depressants may potentiate its toxicity. 
The  mechanism of action of mitotane is described in its general aspects. Mitotane apparently causes 
adrenal inhibition without cellular destruction. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. It inhibits 
cholesterol  side-chain  cleavage  and  11-beta-oxyhydrase  reactions.  It  also  appears  to  reduce  the 
peripheral  metabolism  of  steroids.  Alteration  of  extra-adrenal  metabolism  of  cortisol  induces 
measurable 17-hydroxy corticosteroid while stimulating the formation of 6-beta-hydroxy cortisol.  
Clinical efficacy  
Dose response studies 
The  Applicant  suggested  the  existence  of  a  relation  between  the  plasma  concentrations  of  mitotane 
and  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  the  product.  These  publications  suggest  that  the  therapeutic 
26/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
window for mitotane would lie in plasma concentrations between 14 and 20 mg/l. Although there are 
some published data supporting such relation, this hypothesis is far from being demonstrated.  
These  data  suggest  that  serum  mitotane  concentrations  greater  than  14  mg/l  may  induce  a  tumour 
regression  in  patients  with  adrenocortical  carcinoma,  in  addition  serum  concentrations  greater  than 
20 mg/l may be associated with central nervous system adverse reactions. However, interestingly, the 
appropriate serum levels can be achieved with lower daily doses of mitotane as Lysodren formulation 
(2 to 3 g/daily) and some reports suggest that monitoring the plasma levels of mitotane leads to lower 
daily administration, hence a better tolerance. 
The  data  that  might  be  considered  as  pivotal  for  supporting  this  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
(PK/PD) relationship was published in a French study using a different formulation of mitotane whose 
pharmacokinetic profile seems to be considerably different than the one for Lysodren. The same study 
(Baudin,  Pellegriti  et  al.  2001)  showed  that  the  cumulative  mitotane  dose  was  the  only  parameter 
possibly  correlated  with  plasma  level,  while  the  daily  mitotane  dose  explained  only  35%  of  the 
variability between patients in the plasma level. 
Therapeutic  window.  Kopf,  Goretzki  et  al.  2001  suggests  a  dose-response  relationship  between 
mitotane serum level and survival. Another original publication (Haak, Hermans et al. 1994) suggests 
that mitotane is effective only when high serum levels can be achieved. However, the same paper also 
reports that 
1. 
2. 
62 patients received mitotane and only 30 achieved levels ranging 14-50 mg/l. 
Among the 29 patients with measurable tumour size, a tumour response was seen in only 6 out 
of 14 patients with high mitotane serum levels 
6  out  of  the  11  patients  treated  with  mitotane  after  apparently  complete  resection  had  serum 
levels >14 mg/l and a median survival of 51 months compared with 61 months in those with no 
adjuvant therapy 
5 mg/l  appears  to  be  the  threshold  serum  level  for  gastro-intestinal  toxicity  and  15 mg/l  the 
threshold for neuropsychological toxicity. 
Therefore, there appears to be no therapeutic window; if any, it is achieved in few patients only. 
High doses (12-14g/day) are also needed to control hypercortisolism in 50-60% of the patients 
(Latronico & Chrousos, 1997). 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Although many authors seem to support this relationship, monitoring of mitotane serum levels is not 
common practice in many European centres. 
Dose-efficacy relationship. Recent publications (Kasperlik-Zaluska 2000; Ahlman, Khorram-Manesh 
et al. 2001; Baudin, Pellegriti et al. 2001; Favia, Lumachi et al. 2001; Heilmann, Wagner et al. 2001) 
stress  the  importance  of  monitoring  the  plasma  levels  of  mitotane:  they  suggest  that  efficacy  is 
observed  for  plasma  levels  comprised  between  14  and  20 mg/l.  Intolerance  is  more  often  observed 
with the highest concentration (above 20mg/l). However, the dose-efficacy relationship is not so clear. 
For instance, Baudin et al. 2001 report that six out of 24 patients achieved the threshold therapeutic 
plasma level of 14mg/l: four of these six patients had a response (though three only hormonal), but 8 
out 11 patients given mitotane as adjuvant therapy had recurrences even though mitotane plasma level 
was >14mg/l in six of them. 
The range of doses used in published studies is considerably wide (from 2 g to 19 g per day). In the 
view of some authors, the highest tolerated dose is recommended, while other publications advocate 
for a dosing schedule in the lower bound of the tested range (2-4 g/day). In any case, due to the high 
affinity  of  mitotane  for  the  fat  tissue,  the  time  to  reach  the  proposed  target  plasma  levels  can  be  as 
long  as 3-5  months.  The  applicant  should justify the selection  of  the  2-6 g/day dosing  schedule  and 
how plasma drug levels should be monitored in order to get the proposed therapeutic window. This is 
again of primary importance taking into account that  monitoring  of plasma levels of  mitotane is not 
available in many centres. 
Finally, with respect to plasma levels, some authors (Haak, van Seters et al. 1990; Baudin, Pellegriti et 
al. 2001) questioned the bioavailability of some preparations used in clinical trials (e.g. enteric-coated 
27/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capsules)  and  suggest  that  tablets  (as  in  the  present  application)  may  constitute  the  optimal  form  of 
administration.  
In  conclusion,  this  possible  relationship  reinforces  the  need  of  obtaining  further  knowledge  on  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  mitotane,  in  order  to  define  an  optimal  dosing  schedule  allowing  for 
reaching the mentioned therapeutic levels. 
Main study(ies)  
The  Applicant  has  not  conducted  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  The  available  clinical 
information on mitotane in adrenal carcinoma comes from published reports of uncontrolled studies.  
For  an  update  of  clinical  information,  the  Applicant  performed  a  search  in  MEDLINE,  using 
“mitotane”  as  the  search  term.  A  total  of  220  articles  were  published  after  1990.  The  clinical  data 
identified from these 220 references have been reviewed, taking into account that some publications 
report the same series of patients at different follow-up stages. Some of the publications also refer to 
patients treated for Cushing’s syndrome of other origin than Adrenal Carcinoma, e.g. adrenal bilateral 
hyperplasia, benign adrenal tumours, or hypothalamic-pituitary Cushing which are not the indications 
claimed  by  the  Applicant.  However,  these  publications  were  reviewed  to  seek  possible  information 
related to safety of mitotane.  
A  number  of  publications  have  reported  the  clinical  experience  with  mitotane  for  the  treatment  of 
adrenocortical  carcinoma.  In  the  vast  majority  of  the  cases,  these  publications  report  retrospective 
uncontrolled studies. It is not possible to sum up the total number of patients studied, since in several 
of  these  publications  patients  previously  reported  were  included.  Overall,  these  studies  encompass 
experience in more than 500 patients followed for various time periods. In most of the publications, 
the actual formulation used for the treatment of patients is not reported. 
The assessment of mitotane efficacy has the difficulties associated with an uncontrolled study design. 
It differs from study to study, as efficacy was variably judged based on survival, on remission time, or 
on tumour size reduction.  
In addition, it was quite difficult to compare the results of the different studies, because most of them 
are retrospective studies and there are various discrepancies between the series by different factors: the 
stage of the disease (the response depends on the stage of the disease), the time of treatment initiation 
(at the time of surgery or later), associated treatments, and dose regimen.  
The table below summarises the most pertinent available clinical data published in the English, French 
or German literature since 1990 in adults as identified by the bibliographic search as indicated above. 
Other  publications are  available in  the  literature  but relate to  series published  before  1990 and  have 
not been included in this clinical overview since they did not bring additional information in terms of 
efficacy or safety compared to the literature published since 1990. Some of these publications indicate 
that mitotane has been used in Europe well before 10 years ago.  
Primary  endpoints/assays. Efficacy  was  variably  judged  based  on  survival,  on  remission  time,  or  on 
tumour size reduction. 
28/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  1:  Main  findings  from  literature  survey  of  the  treatment  of  adrenocortical  carcinoma  with 
mitotane alone in adults (data published from 1990, onwards) 
Number of 
Subjects 
Main results 
Study 
Identifier 
Haak HR 
1994 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Open-label 
Test product(s): 
Dosage Regimen  
Route of 
administration 
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) 4 - 8 g/d 
in 4 divided doses 
Barzon L 
1997 
Open-label 
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) 4-8 g/d 
96 patients  
45 (27 received 
mitotane)  
In certain 
patients, 
chemotherapy 
was added. 
Dickstein G 
1998  
Open-label 
Mitotane 
(formulation 
unknown) 1.5 to 2.0 
g/d 
4 patients 
followed for 21 to 
68 months after 
surgery  
Wooten MD 
1993 
Open-label 
(retrospective) 
+ literature 
survey 
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) , dose 
not reported 
8 patients (4 
treated with 
Lysodren®)  
Luton JP 
1990 
Open-label 
105 patients  
Mitotane (capsule 
formulation): initial 
dose 10g/d (4 to 16 
g/d) 
Maintenance dose : 
7 g/d (3 to 20g/d) 
No effect of mitotane on 
overall survival after total 
resection.  
However, when high plasma 
levels of mitotane were 
achieved, survival was 
improved. 
No effect of mitotane on 
disease-free interval after 
resection or survival.  
In patients given 
chemotherapy + mitotane, 
survival was significantly 
longer than in patients given 
mitotane alone. 
At the time of publication, 2 
patients are disease free 
(after 21 and 57 months on 
treatment).  
One patient died after 68 
months on treatment of 
unrelated reason without 
tumour recurrence or 
metastasis. The fourth 
patient had 2 lung 
metastases after 48 months 
of treatment and is still 
doing well and is disease 
free 6 months after removal 
of metastases. 
The result of the search 
indicated 64 reports (551 
patients) treated with 
mitotane. One-third of the 
patients had least a partial 
response to mitotane. 
All patients (47) with 
functional AC had adrenal 
insufficiency during 
mitotane treatment. 27 % of 
patients with measurable 
tumour size had tumour 
progression, 2 had 
stabilisation of disease for 
36 and 56 months 
respectively, and 8 had 
tumour regression. Overall, 
mitotane had no impact on 
survival. 
29/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pommier RF 
1992 
Open-label 
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) dose 
unreported 
Kasperlik-
Zaluska AA 
2000 
Open-label 
Mitotane 
(formulation 
unknown) dose 
adapted to plasma 
levels, as a mean 6 
g/d 
Berruti A 1998 
and Ref. 10 
Terzolo M 
2000 
Open-label 
Prospective  
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) 2 - 3 g/d 
plus chemotherapy 
Ilias I 
2001 
Open-label 
Retrospective 
Icard P 
2001 
Retrospective 
survey 
Mitotane 
(formulation 
unknown) : initial 
dose 3 to 6 g/d, 
decreased to 1 g/d 
Mitotane (capsule 
formulation ?). 
Initial dose 12g/d 
reduced to 3 - 4 g/d 
in 3 divided doses 
Vassilopoulou- 
Sellin R 
2001 
Retrospective 
survey 
Mitotane 
Unknown 
formulation 
2 to 5 g/d 
73 patients (29 
patients received 
Lysodren® either 
alone or in 
combination with 
various agents) 
82 patients. 59 
patients received 
mitotane: in 32 it 
was started 
immediately after 
surgery, and 27 
with a delay of 2 
to 24 months. 
28 patients  
2 patients with 
metastatic AC 
followed 
respectively for 
14 and 16 year 
under low dose 
mitotane. 
253 patients with 
AC reviewed. 
Mitotane as an 
adjuvant therapy 
to 135 patients 
(53.5 %), 
postoperatively in 
103 cases (76 %) 
and pre and 
postoperatively in 
27 cases (20 %). 
217 patients with 
AC. 74 patients 
received mitotane 
(evaluable 
response in 43 
only). 
No clear-cut benefit from 
mitotane treatment. 
56 % of patients survived 
for several months (4 to 118 
months) in the group treated 
immediately after surgery. 
There were only 22 % 
survivors in patients treated 
after a delay following 
surgery. 
Overall response rate 53.5 % 
(95 % CI: 35 – 72 %). 
Stable disease in 8 patients; 
progressive disease in 5. In 
responding patients, time to 
progression was 24.4 
months. 
In both patients, the disease 
was stabilised at the time of 
publication 
Significant improvement of 
survival in metastatic (stage 
IV) patients receiving 
mitotane after surgery. 
52.4 % of the patients 
improved on mitotane. 
Overall survival time 
significantly higher in 
patients who responded to 
mitotane than in those who 
had disease progression on 
mitotane. Trend towards a 
significant increase (P = 
0.07) in survival in patients 
who received mitotane. 
30/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baudin E 
2001 
Open-label 
Prospective 
study 
Mitotane (capsule 
formulation) 6 -12 
g/d in 3 divided 
doses, in function of 
plasma levels 
24 patients. First-
line treatment in 
13 patients with 
metastatic 
disease, adjuvant 
treatment in 11 
patients from 
surgery.  
Favia G 
2001 
Open-label 
Mitotane 
(Lysodren) 
4 - 5 g/d 
Khorram- 
Mannesh A 
2001 
Open-label 
Heilmann P 
2001 
Retrospective 
survey 
Mitotane 
Formulation 
unknown. 
2 -6.5 g/d (mean 
dose 4 g/d, in 
function of plasma 
levels) 
Mitotane 
Formulation 
unknown. 3  -8 g/d 
in function of 
plasma levels 
31 patients with 
functional or non-
functional AC. 18 
of them had 
adjuvant post 
surgical mitotane 
treatment. 
18 patients with 
AC. After 
surgery, 12 
patients received 
mitotane with 
plasma level 
monitoring for a 
median duration 
of 12 months. 
9 patients (8 with 
metastasised AC) 
treated with 
Lysodren in 
Germany with 
plasma 
monitoring of 
mitotane. 
Kornely E 
1994 
Open-label 
Mitotane 
Formulation 
unknown. 12 g/d 
(initial dose, 
decreased to 1.5 to 
3 g/d 
1 female patient 
with metastasised 
AC followed for 
4 years on 
mitotane 
treatment  
In 58 % of patients, plasma 
mitotane level were above 
14 mg/L. Objective response 
(1 complete, 3 partial) in 
4/13 patients with metastatic 
disease. No response to 
patients who had 
persistently low plasma 
levels (outlining that 
formulation may be an 
important factor for 
efficacy).  
8/11 patients with mitotane 
as adjuvant therapy had 
disease recurrence despite 
plasma levels > 14 mg/L. 
Neurologic toxicity was 
found in patients with levels 
> 20 mg/L. 
20 to 25 % of patients 
responded to mitotane (need 
for titration of the drug). 
Few side effects were 
observed on mitotane 
because of plasma 
monitoring, allowing lower 
doses to be used (median 
dose: 4 g/d).  
Actual efficacy of mitotane 
impossible to evaluate in 
this study. 
Mean survival time 
significantly longer in 
patients who had plasma 
levels above 14 mg/L vs. 
those who failed to reach 
such level (41.2 + 16.2 vs. 
6.3 + 3.6 months, p < 0.01). 
The dose of mitotane 
necessary to reach this level 
differed from one patient to 
another. Major side effects 
were observed in patients 
with plasma levels above 20 
mg/L. 
Daily treatment from 1989 
to 1994: prolonged 
remission. GI side effects 
controlled when decreasing 
the dose of mitotane. 
31/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wajchen-berg 
BL 
2000 
Retrospective 
study 
Kasperlik-
Zaluska AA 
1998 
Retrospective 
survey 
Mitotane 
Formulation 
unknown. 6 to 15 
mg/kg/day in 3 o 4 
intakes. 
Mitotane 
Formulation 
unknown. Initial 
dose  8 - 10 g/d 
decreased to 3 - 5 
g/d in function of 
plasma levels 
47 patients (22 
children) with 
AC followed for 
the last 17 years 
in Brazil. 15 
patients have 
received 
mitotane.  
21 cases. 17 
patients received 
mitotane as 
adjuvant therapy 
with plasma 
monitoring  
Only one patient had 
metastasis regression after 2 
months on mitotane. No 
clear-cut effect in the other 
patients and no indication of 
survival increase. 
9 of 13 survivors treated 
with mitotane were free of 
disease at the time of 
publication. One patient 
remained free of disease for 
13 moths and mitotane was 
discontinued. 2 months later 
he had a recurrence and 
reintroduction of mitotane 
resulted in a decrease in 
tumour size.  In general, 
mitotane appeared to 
improve prognosis in these 
AC diagnosed early. 
Targeted population.  Mitotane is frequently used for patients with  unresectable adrenal carcinoma. 
However,  the  claimed  indication  (treatment  of  adrenal  carcinoma)  includes  all  the  stages  of  the 
disease, such as inoperable adrenal carcinoma (metastases or recurrent local tumour) and the adjuvant 
treatment at the time of surgery (prior to, or after surgery), both for adult and  paediatric population. 
No  controlled  prospective  study  evaluating  the  benefit  of  mitotane  was  published.  In  addition,  in  a 
number of publications mitotane was initiated systematically at the time of surgery. The first approach 
is  confirmed  by  published  review  (Libertino  1988).  Some  articles  are  actually  very  critical  in  this 
respect (Khorram-Manesh, Ahlman et al. 1998) a vast review of 253 patients  showing that mitotane 
benefited only the group of patients not operated. Moreover, an article not included in the Marketing 
Authorisation Application (Vassilopoulou-Sellin, Guinee et al. 1993) does not support the conclusion 
that adjuvant mitotane is beneficial in patients with localised or regional adrenocortical cancer: in this 
study mitotane improved neither the disease-free interval nor survival. 
Effect on survival. There are only few studies assessing the efficacy of mitotane on survival rates: In 
four  studies  (Barzon,  Fallo  et  al.  1997;  Heilmann,  Wagner  et  al.  2001;  Icard,  Goudet  et  al.  2001; 
Vassilopoulou-Sellin  and  Schultz  2001)  there  was  an  increase  in  survival  rate  whereas  in  two 
(Pommier and Brennan 1992; Haak, Hermans et al. 1994) no such improvement was reported. Finally, 
(Vassilopoulou-Sellin  and  Schultz  2001)  there  was  a  non-significant  (p=0.07)  survival  advantage, 
which is defined as modest but has not been quantified; in any case the authors call for caution on this 
finding due to possible selection bias of the treatment option. In five patients who had mitotane serum 
levels ≥14mg/l, mean survival was longer than in those with lower drug plasma levels, which does not 
necessarily  prove  that  mitotane  prolongs  survival  (Heilmann,  Wagner  et  al.  2001).  One  publication 
(Barzon,  Fallo  et  al.  1997)  reports  that  the  survival  rate  observed  in  patients  receiving  mitotane  in 
association with chemotherapy was similar to that observed in patients given chemotherapy alone, and 
significantly  longer  than  in  patients  given  mitotane  alone.  This  suggests  a  possible  interaction  of 
mitotane  and  chemotherapy.  Most  of  the  studies  report  tumoral  regressions  or  stabilisation  of  the 
disease, and the percentage of responders varies widely from one study to another. It is stated a rate of 
20 to 30 percent responders like a realistic estimate.  
In  their  review  of  the  literature  on  efficacy  of  mitotane,  Kopf  et  al.  2000  explained  the  various 
discrepancies  between  the  series  by  different  factors:  the  stage  of  the  disease,  the  time  of  treatment 
initiation  (at  the  time  of  surgery  or  later),  associated  treatments,  and  dose  regimen.  Regarding  the 
latter, the Applicant supported the existence of a dose-response relationship between mitotane level in 
serum and survival (Haak, Hermans et al. 1994; Kopf, Goretzki et al. 2001). Finally, therapeutic drug 
32/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monitoring  may  be  helpful  to  target  serum  levels  above  14 mg/l  or  even  better  above  20 mg/l  if 
tolerance allows it, taking into account that side effects are dose-dependent.  
In a retrospective series over 33 years from Poland (Kasperlik-Zaluska 2000), 82 patients with adrenal 
cortical carcinoma  were treated with  mitotane, 32  of them immediately after  surgery,  and 27  after  a 
delay of 2 to 24 months. At the time of publication, there were 18 survivors (56%) in the group treated 
immediately after surgery, and 6 survivors (22%) in the other group. 
In a retrospective study from the USA, mitotane was associated with a 24% response rate in patients 
with metastatic or unresectable adrenal cortical carcinoma, with no clear-cut increase in survival time 
(Pommier and Brennan 1992). 
In  a  French  large  retrospective  study  (Luton  et  al.,  1990),  mitotane  was  able  to  control  hormonal 
secretion in 75% of the patients. Some patients had tumour stabilisation for up to 56 months and a few 
(8  out  37  patients  treated  with  mitotane)  had  tumour  regression,  a  fact,  which  was  never  observed 
among patients not treated with mitotane. Overall, however, the effect of mitotane on survival was not 
significant. 
Dosage recommendations. As indicated in the above literature survey, the recommended dosage for 
adrenal  carcinoma  treatment  varies  from  8  to  12g/day  in  three  divided  doses.  The  time  of  treatment 
initiation depends on the investigator but a number of studies suggest that treatment should be initiated 
at the time of surgery for those patients undergoing surgical removal. Daily dosage must be adapted in 
function  of  the  desired  plasma  levels:  efficient  plasma  levels  range  between  14  and  20mg/l.  Plasma 
levels  above  20mg/l  may  be  associated  with  severe  side  effects  and  bring  no  further  therapeutic 
advantage. In children, the recommended daily dose varies from 7 to 12g/m2/day. As in adults, plasma 
levels between 14 and 20mg/l may be desirable. This point appears to be in line with what has been 
experienced  in  literature.  However,  the  US  product  information  for  Lysodren  recommends  starting 
treatment at 2 to 6g per day and then increasing it incrementally up to 9 to 10g per day; if severe side 
effects  appear,  the  dose  should  then  be  reduced  until  the  maximum  tolerated  dose  is  achieved. 
Experience has shown that the maximum tolerated dose in literature has been varying from 2 to 16g 
per day, but has usually been 9 to 10g. It is true that based on the available literature data the time of 
treatment initiation depends on the investigator, but the lack of scientific evidence on the best time to 
commence therapy should further stress the need for more comprehensive testing of this product. 
Combination with chemotherapy. The literature survey also provides some information on the use 
of mitotane in combination with other drugs used for controlling tumour growth: a variety of cytostatic 
agents have been tried for the treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma, such as cisplatin, doxorubicin, 
suramin, 5 fluorouracile and etoposide. Interestingly, mitotane in combination with these agents may 
increase  their  efficacy,  a  fact  that  is  related  to  the  finding  that  mitotane  is  able  to  reverse  in  vitro 
multidrug  resistance  (Dogliotti,  Berruti  et  al.  1995;  Berruti,  Terzolo  et  al.  1998).  Streptozocin  in 
combination with mitotane has also been found to have some effect on disease-free interval in patients 
with  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  (Khan,  Imam  et  al.  2000).  A  prospective  US  study  evaluating  the 
efficacy of mitotane combined with cisplatin in 37 evaluable patients with metastatic or residual AC 
concluded that  the  combination  could  be  efficient (Bukowski,  Wolfe  et al.  1993). However,  another 
recent prospective study in the USA (Williamson, Lew et al. 2000) has shown that combining cisplatin 
and etoposide for adrenal cortical carcinoma (local or metastasised disease) had minimal activity and 
that adding mitotane (4g/day) without plasma level monitoring led to an objective response in only 2 
out  of  16  evaluable  patients.  Conversely,  a  patient  with  liver  metastasis  of  an  adrenal  cortical 
carcinoma  was  followed  for  11  months  while  on  mitotane  with  only  minimal  response  and  marked 
gastro-intestinal  side  effects.  Mitotane  was  discontinued  and  replaced  by  cisplatin  and  etoposide, 
which  induced  a  >50  %  reduction  in  metastasis  size  (Zidan,  Shpendler  et  al.  1996).  In  a  French 
evaluation of etoposide and cisplatin in combination with mitotane (at doses resulting in plasma levels 
>14mg/L) in 18 patients with advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma (Bonacci, Gigliotti et al. 1998), the 
treatment resulted in a complete response in 3 cases and in a partial response in 3 cases. Tolerance was 
acceptable  and  no  treatment  interruption  was  required.  A  Japanese  report  suggests  that  combining 
mitotane with tegafur was also an option for the treatment of metastatic adrenal carcinoma (Nakamura, 
Kuzuya  et  al.  1990).  Berruti  et  al.  (Berruti,  Terzolo  et  al.  1998),  the  authors  concluded  that  the 
33/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination  of  etoposide,  doxorubicin  and  cisplatin  (EDP)  with  mitotane  “appeared  active  and 
manageable”,  that  compared  with  EDP  alone  “some  additional  side  effects  due  to  mitotane 
concomitant  medication,  such  as  neurotoxicity  and  hyperlipidemia,  were  observed”  and  that  this 
“combination  regimen  should  be  further  explored  with  a  larger  series  of  patients”.  Other  authors 
concluded (Khan, Imam et al. 2000)that the combination of streptozocin and mitotane “needs further 
evaluation with larger patient materials in randomised trials”. Finally (Bukowski, Wolfe et al. 1993), 
the authors of study conclude that the combination of cisplatin and mitotane “seems to have modest 
antitumor activity” and  consider that while “it  is  unclear whether the addition  of  mitotane increased 
the  effectiveness  of  cisplatin,  certainly  the  combination  seems  to  have  had  additive  toxicity. 
Substantial  neurologic  and  gastrointestinal  toxicity  occurred  during  the  study  and  led  to  premature 
discontinuation of therapy in 47% of patients”. In conclusion, the literature seems to agree that larger 
randomised trials are required to appropriately test the safety and efficacy of mitotane in combination 
with  other  chemotherapy  agents.  Certainly,  there  is  no  consensus  on  the  efficacy  of  mitotane  in 
combination with other agents for the treatment of patients with adrenal cortical carcinoma. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The  only  available  information  about  the  use  of  mitotane  in  special  populations  refers  to  children. 
Other groups such as elderly, patients with hepatic or renal impairment or others are not considered in 
this clinical dossier. 
Children.  As  in  adults,  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  in  children  is  a  very  severe  tumor:  disease-free 
interval  is  approximately  9  months  but  regional  disease  at  presentation  is  associated  with  a  shorter 
disease-free  interval  (approximately  3  months).  Mitotane  treatment  after  excision  may  be  associated 
with  a  longer  survival.  The  dose  usually  reported  varies  from  7  to  12g/m2/day.  However,  data  in 
children are very limited and, as indicated in their reviews, Ribeiro et al. (Ribeiro, Michalkiewicz et al. 
2000) and Teinturier et al. (Teinturier, Pauchard et al. 1999) conclude that the role of mitotane for the 
treatment  of  childhood  AC  has  not  be  established  in  comparative  trials.  However,  there  are  some 
reports  that,  as  in  adults,  mitotane  treatment  may  be  associated  with  prolonged  remissions  (Godil, 
Atlas et al. 2000; Ciftci, Senocak et al. 2001). Other authors (Ciftci, Senocak et al. 2001) did not find a 
significant effect of mitotane on survival rate and conclude that these patients “should be entered into 
multi-institutional trials to assess adequately effective chemotherapy and radiotherapy protocols”. In a 
case report (Godil, Atlas et al. 2000), the authors while acknowledging that their case responded well 
to  mitotane  therapy  conceded  that  improved  survival  with  mitotane  is  controversial  in  pediatric 
patients. 
In conclusion, like in adults adrenal cortical carcinoma in children is a very severe tumour: disease-
free interval is approximately 9 months but regional disease at presentation is associated with a shorter 
disease-free  interval  (approximately  3  months).  Data  in  children  are  very  limited  and  two  reviews 
(Teinturier,  Pauchard  et  al.  1999;  Ribeiro,  Michalkiewicz  et  al.  2000)  conclude  that  the  role  of 
mitotane  for  the  treatment  of  childhood  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  has  not  be  established  in 
comparative trials. However there are some reports that showed, as in adults, that mitotane treatment 
might be associated with prolonged remissions. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Adrenal  carcinoma  is  a  rare  disease  with  no  curative  treatment  when  surgery  is  impossible  or  has 
failed; therefore further therapeutic options are needed for this patient population. Mitotane has been 
used for decades in many countries, including in Europe on a compassionate basis, for the treatment of 
inoperable adrenal carcinoma and it seems to constitute the main therapeutic option in such cases (see 
also  well-established  used  justification).  Different  cytotoxic  agents  have  also  been  used  in  the 
treatment  of  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma,  such  as  cisplatin,  doxorubicin,  suramin,  5  fluorouracil  and 
etoposide, with questionable efficacy results and considerable higher toxicity.  
No prospective comparative study assessing efficacy and safety of mitotane in a well-defined protocol 
has been carried out. The clinical dossier included in this application consists on published studies of 
poor  quality.  Most  of  them  are  retrospective  case-series  with  mitotane  being  evaluated  as  palliative 
34/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapy  in  advanced  stages  or  as  adjuvant  treatment  to  surgery.  The  series  of  cases  provided  in  the 
literature review data on the use of mitotane inlude an extremely heterogeneous population in terms of 
disease stage, objective of the therapeutic intervention (adjuvant to surgery or palliative treatment in 
non-surgical population), associated treatments, and dose regimen. Due to the nature of the published 
literature,  there  is  no  information  for  the  existing  data  on  how  GCP  were  followed.  The  evidence 
concerning the clinical efficacy of mitotane can be summarised as follows: 
Efficacy of mitotane in advanced adrenal cortical carcinoma.  
Some publications suggest that mitotane administration can provide some benefit in patients with non-
resectable or metastatic adrenal cortical carcinoma.  
In two papers (Haak, Hermans et al. 1994; Barzon, Fallo et al. 1997) where mitotane (Lysodren for all 
patients in the study conducted by Haak et al.) has been studied as a true “adjuvant” treatment, there 
was no clear-cut evidence that mitotane can increase the disease-free interval and delay the onset of 
recurrence. It is noteworthy that reference (Haak, Hermans et al. 1994) is a prospective evaluation of 
Lysodren  either  as  a  treatment  of  unresectable  adrenal  carcinoma,  or  as  an  adjuvant  treatment,  with 
monitoring of plasma levels of mitotane: the authors found an obvious effect of Lysodren on survival 
and tumour regression for unresectable tumours (see below) and no effect when used as an adjuvant 
treatment: it  is  therefore  unlikely that a  further trial  will show  a  positive adjuvant effect  unless  new 
prognostic  factors  appear  in  the  future  to  select  potential  responders  or  new  means  to  detect 
micrometastases become available.  
Therefore,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the  indication  should  be  restricted  to  unresectable  adrenal 
carcinoma  (i.e.  no  possible  surgical  removal  of  tumour  or  metastases,  or  incomplete  removal  of 
tumour and/or metastases).  
Effect on survival.  
Mitotane  appears  to  prolong  the  survival  of  those  patients  whose  tumours  regress.  There  have  been 
reports  of  a  few  patients  who  achieved  complete  remissions  with  long-term  survival  (greater  than  5 
years), although this finding does not mean that the prolonged survival is related to mitotane response. 
The published data do not provide sufficient evidence to support any effect of mitotane on survival.  
Tumour regression.  
Most  of  the  studies  report  tumoral  regressions  or  stabilisation  of  the  disease,  and  the  percentage  of 
responders varies widely from one study to another. It should also be noted that an important number 
of  studies  have  not  been  assessed  using  the  usual  response  criteria.  A  rate  of  20  to  30  percent 
responders is suggested as a realistic estimate (mainly either partial or just a slight reduction of tumour 
size).  This  might  not  be  substantially  different  from  the  response  rate  observed  with  chemotherapy 
(mainly  platinum-based  regimens),  but  with  a  considerably  better  tolerability  profile.  Although  no 
comparative  trials  exist  assessing  the  effect  of  mitotane  on  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  in  terms  of 
objective responses and a study has yet to be conducted with modern imaging techniques and response 
criteria accepted by clinical oncologists, the irremediably progressive nature of the disease makes that 
any tumour regression obtained after a therapeutic intervention can be considered as a proof of effect 
(at least some effect) on the objective response. It is difficult to determine whether the magnitude and 
duration of this anti-tumour effect is comparable to that obtained with conventional chemotherapeutic 
agents.  The  heterogeneity  of  the  regimens  used  (although  cisplatin  based  regimens  are  the  most 
commonly used) and the stage of the disease when therapy is started make unfeasible making a sound 
indirect  comparison  between  both  strategies.  However,  and  according  to  the  expert  view,  the 
following aspects favours the choice of mitotane in front of chemotherapy with conventional agents: 
- 
If  existing,  the  differences  in  response  rate  and  duration  of  response  between  both  regimens 
must be considered as clinically irrelevant. 
None  of  the  regimens  have  demonstrated  that  the  anti-tumour  effect  is  associated  with  an 
improvement in survival or an increased disease-free interval. 
- 
35/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
The toxicity profile of conventional chemotherapy is considerably higher and the acceptability 
by the patients much lower. 
Last, but not least, the anti-hormonal effects of mitotane allow for a better symptomatic control 
of the patients (see below) 
Subjective response. This is an issue of extreme importance in this advanced population with such a 
fatal  prognosis.  Clinical  effectiveness  consists  on  reducing  weakness,  anorexia,  pain  (when  present) 
and symptoms and, in functional tumours, signs and symptoms related to excessive steroid production.  
Although the data provided show a variable effect of mitotane on the control of symptoms, it has been 
reported that it may induce a transitory return (lasting from few weeks to several months) of hormonal 
findings to normal levels in up to 75% of patients. In any case, treatment is never curative, and tumour 
regression  is  transient.  On  the  literature  reports  (and  also  in  the  view  of  the  expert)  the  effect  of 
mitotane  on  the  control  of  symptoms  is  higher  than  that  observed  with  conventional  chemotherapy. 
This  apparent  difference  is  specially  marked  in  (but  not  limited  to)  functional  adrenal  cortical 
carcinoma  tumours  inducing  a  constellation  of  clinical  pictures  that  significantly  impair  patient’s 
quality of life (Cushing syndrome, virilisation, feminisation and hyperaldosteronism). 
Efficacy of mitotane as adjuvant therapy in adrenal cortical carcinoma.  
Mitotane has been used as an  adjunct following surgery removal of the primary tumour in a limited 
number of patients in order to delay or prevent recurrent disease. Some of the publications provided by 
the  applicant  suggest  that  mitotane  as  adjunctive  therapy  might  be  associated  with  an  improved 
survival. However, available evidence (and also corroborated by the wide range of publications on this 
issue)  suggests  that  its  value  as  an  adjunct  to  surgery  has  not  been  adequately  investigated  in  an 
efficacy and safety study and cannot be considered as proven. 
Efficacy of mitotane in children.  
The  prognosis  of  adrenocortical  carcinoma  always  is  guarded.  Sporadic  cures  have  been  reported  in 
patients  who  underwent  complete  removal  of  a  small  (<9  cm)  encapsulated  tumour.  Reports  of 
remission of metastatic disease are only anecdotal. More aggressive surgical approaches have led to an 
expansion of mean survival time of approximately 18 months to occasionally longer than 48 months. 
Few studies of aggressive surgery and early adjuvant therapy are available. In this application, there 
are not enough data to assess the use of mitotane in children. There are no reasons to think that the role 
of mitotane in the treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma in children might be substantially different 
than the one for adults (palliative therapy in inoperable adrenal cortical carcinoma). However, as no 
clear  peak  incidence  according  to  age  has  been  described,  the  applicant  should,  on  the  basis  of 
available data, further elaborate on the potential usefulness and limitations of use of mitotane as well 
as the potential need for different dosing schedules according to age strata. In conclusion, the efficacy 
in patients under the age of 18 years has not been established and, at present only very limited data are 
available in this age group. 
There are published data suggesting that assaying mitotane levels during therapy is valuable because 
its therapeutic efficacy depends on achieving serum levels of at least 14 mg/l and below 20 mg/l. The 
proposed treatment schedule is as follows: start at doses between 3 and 6 g of Lysodren per day given 
in  three  divided  doses.  Monitoring  the  plasma  level  of  mitotane  is  advisable  in  order  to  target  the 
therapeutic level which is 14 mg/l or above: experience indicates that such level can be reached when 
the  patient  has  received  a  cumulative  amount  of  75  g  Lysodren.  After  such  exposure  to  Lysodren, 
plasma  mitotane levels  may need to  be  monitored  at biweekly intervals. Levels higher than  20  mg/l 
may  be  associated  with  severe  undesirable  effects  and  offer  no  further  benefit  in  terms  of  efficacy. 
When levels of 14 mg/l or above are reached, Lysodren dose should be reduced in order to maintain 
plasma  levels  in  the  desired  range,  taking  into  account  that  levels  may  still  raise  despite  dose 
reduction,  necessitating  in  some  cases  temporary  Lysodren  interruption.  Experience  with  Lysodren 
indicates  that  maintenance  doses  of  1–2  g  per  day  may  be  sufficient  to  maintain  the  patient  at  the 
desired  target  dose.  Data  with  various  mitotane  formulations  suggest  that  administration  with  food 
and/or oil can enhance absorption.  
36/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore in the light of the published data mitotane may be beneficial for patients unable to undergo 
complete  resection  of  the  tumour.  An  estimated  80%  of  the  patients  with  functioning  tumours  and 
treated  with  mitotane  will  show  a  substantial  diminution  in  hormone  production.  In  metastatic 
adrenocortical  carcinoma,  temporary  palliation  of  disseminated  adrenocortical  carcinomas  can 
sometimes be achieved. Although measurable partial remissions are unusual and are reported in 20 to 
30% of cases, excellent palliation of hormone symptoms is commonly observed. Therefore, mitotane 
is  clinically  beneficial  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  (unresectable, 
metastatic or relapsed) adrenal cortical carcinoma. There does not appear to be a role for mitotane as 
adjuvant therapy if the patient has undergone complete resection of the tumour.  
The efficacy in patients under the age of 18 years has not been established and, at present only very 
limited data are available in this age group. 
Clinical safety 
The  information  concerning  the  clinical  safety  of  mitotane  provided  by  the  Applicant  was  extracted 
from  the  published  literature,  from  a  five  years  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  covering  the  period 
from 8 July 1997 to 7 July 2002 and from the US product information for Lysodren (primarily on the 
initial New Drug Approval application submitted to the FDA in 1969).  
Patient exposure 
Some data on exposure are available in the scientific literature, however these data suffer most likely 
from an important underreporting of the true number of patients being treated with mitotane in the EU 
or worldwide. In  the  Periodic  Safety Update  Report  covering the period from  8 July 1997 to  7 July 
2002.In  this  report  the  MAH  made  the  assumptions  that  all  patients  are  adults  with  normal  hepatic 
function receiving mitotane for inoperable adrenal cortical carcinoma, each patient receives 10 grams 
daily for 365 days (which is a high daily dose of mitotane). Based on these assumptions and based on 
the bulk woldwide sales, the Applicant estimated that slightly more than 1,700 patients were treated 
during one year over the period covered by the Periodic Safety Update Report. These data should be 
taken with caution since the bulk worldwide sales figures were an underestimate of the total quantity 
actually sold. An estimate of the number of patients liable to benefit from a treatment with mitotane 
was calculated in the well-established use justification of this report. 
Serious adverse reactions/deaths/other significant reactions1 
In  most  of  the  clinical  studies  analysed,  side  effects  were  reported  with  few  comments,  since  they 
were expected from previous experience obtained with Lysodren mostly in the USA. 
1  In  this  report,  the  terms  adverse  drug  reactions  and  adverse  events  are  used  according  to  the  current  EU 
legislation.  An  adverse  drug  reaction  is  defined  by  a  response  to  a  medicinal  product  which  is  noxious  and 
unintended and which occurs at doses normally used in man for the prophylaxis, diagnosis or therapy of disease 
or for the restoration, correction or modification of physiological function. A reaction, contrary to an event, is 
characterised by the fact that a causal relationship between the drug and the occurrence is suspected. An adverse 
event  does  not  necessarily  have  a  causal  relationship  with  the  treatment.  Finally,  the  term  “severe”  is  not 
synonymous  with  serious.  Severe  is  used  to  describe  the  intensity  (severity)  of  a  specific  event  (as  in  mild, 
moderate or severe). The safety profile of mitotane is described according to the MedDRA system organ classes 
or MedDRA terminology. 
Frequencies  are  expressed  according  to  the  EU  guideline  on  summary  of  product  characteristics 
(Report from CIOMS Working Group III, Geneva 1995 terminology) Very common (>1/10) Common 
(>1/100,  <1/10)  Uncommon  (>1/1,000,  <1/100)  Rare  (>1/10,000,  <1/1,000)  Very  rare  (<1/10,000), 
including isolated reports. 
37/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
A very high percentage of patients (more than 80 percent) treated with Lysodren have shown at least 
one type of undesirable effect. The drug discontinuations due to side effects are not described in the 
dossier. 
The  most  frequently  observed  adverse  reactions  consist  of  gastrointestinal,  neurological  and  skin 
reactions. 
Gastro-intestinal  disorders:  Gastrointestinal  disturbances,  which  consist  of  anorexia,  nausea  or 
vomiting, and in some cases diarrhoea, occur in about 80% of the patients. The thresholds for gastro-
intestinal  and  neuropsychological  toxicities  have  been  reported  to  be  about  5mg/l  and  15  mg/l 
respectively.  Moreover,  plasma  concentration  monitoring  can  be  difficult  for  a  substance  with  such 
long elimination half-life and extensive distribution,  as the time period before a change in dose will 
have an impact on plasma concentration will be very long. 
Nervous system disorders: Adverse reactions affecting the central nervous system occur in 40% of the 
patients. These consist primarily of depression as manifested by lethargy and somnolence (25%) and 
dizziness  or  vertigo (15%).  At high doses  and  after  prolonged  utilisation, brain function impairment 
can  occur  which,  however,  appears  reversible  at  treatment  cessation.  Therefore,  behavioural  and 
neurological  assessments  should  be  made  at  regular  intervals  when  continuous  Lysodren  treatment 
exceeds 2 years. In addition, since sedation, lethargy, vertigo, and other central nervous system side 
effects can occur so, ambulatory patients should be cautioned about driving, operating machinery, and 
other hazardous pursuits requiring mental and physical alertness. The monitoring of mitotane plasma 
levels  may  help  at  preventing  the  neurological  toxicity  if  the  plasma  levels  are  maintained  below 
20 mg/l. 
Skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders:  Skin  toxicity  has  been  observed  in  about  15%  of  the  cases. 
The skin changes consist primarily of transient skin rashes, which do not seem to be dose related. In 
some  instances,  this  side  effect  subsided  while  the  patients  were  maintained  on  the  drug  without  a 
change of dose. 
In addition, the US product information for Lysodren lists a series of less common adverse reactions 
involving: 
Eye disorders: visual blurring, diplopia, lens opacity, toxic retinopathy;  
Renal and urinary disorders: hematuria, haemorrhagic cystitis, and albuminuria;  
Cardiac disorders: hypertension, or orthostatic hypotension, and flushing; 
The  US  product  information  for  Lysodren  is  based  primarily  on  the  initial  New  Drug  Approval 
application. The following table summarises the side effect profile reported in this application among 
241 patients with adrenal carcinoma. 
38/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Side effect profile reported in the Initial New Drug Approval application (1969) 
Side effect 
No effect 
Gastrointestinal  
Anorexia 
Nausea  
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Other 
Neuromuscular   
Depression 
Dizziness or vertigo 
Muscle tremors  
Headache 
Confusion 
Weakness 
Other  
Skin 
Rash 
Other 
Eye 
Genitourinary 
Cardiovascular   
Miscellaneous 
Cases (n = 241) 
32  (13 %) 
190 (79 %) 
59 (24 %) 
94 (39 %) 
86 (37 %) 
76 (31 %) 
31 (13 %) 
119 (49 %) 
78 (32 %) 
36 (15 %) 
11 (5 %) 
8 (3 %) 
29 (12 %) 
26 (11 %) 
36 (15 %) 
29 (12 %) 
12 (5 %) 
8 (3 %) 
5 (2 %) 
20 (8 %) 
8 (3 %) 
5 (2 %) 
Other  adverse drug reactions are listed in the US  product information for Lysodren. These reactions 
are:  transient  weakness,  baldness,  increased  pain,  epigastric  gnawing,  nosebleed,  sore  tongue,  loose 
stools, dry mouth and lips, hypertension, yellow facial pigment, osteoporosis, lack of memory, weight 
loss,  possible  esophagitis,  tinnitus,  blurred  vision,  postural  hypotension,  posterior  polar  cataracts, 
abdominal cramps, hot flashes, fever, irritability, enuresis, drowsiness.  
The  most  frequently  reported  side  effects  in  the  published  literature  are  gastro-intestinal  disorders 
(nausea,  vomiting)  and  nervous  system  disorders  (ataxia,  somnolence,  lethargy,  dysarthria,  vertigo, 
mental deterioration), myasthenia. 
The  articles  published  in  the  scientific  literature  indicate  that  some  undesirable  effects  appear  to  be 
dose – dependent and their incidence and severity can be decreased with a reduction of the daily dose. 
Some of them (including the neurological disturbances and mental retardation) seem to be reversible 
after treatment discontinuation (Bollen and Lanser 1992). The recent availability of a plasma assay of 
mitotane and its metabolites (Dickstein, Shechner et al. 1998) may allow a more precise determination 
of  the  active  dose:  additional  clinical  data  (Terzolo,  Pia  et  al.  2000;  Baudin,  Pellegriti  et  al.  2001) 
indicate  that  the  appropriate  serum  mitotane  level  is  about  14 mg/l  and  that  serum  levels  above 
20 mg/l  may  induce  adverse  reactions.  Appropriate  serum  levels  may  be  achieved  with  lower  daily 
doses  of  mitotane  (2  to  3  g/daily),  and  some  reports  suggest  that  monitoring  the  plasma  levels  of 
mitotane leads to lower daily administration, hence a better tolerance of Lysodren (Khorram-Manesh, 
Ahlman et al. 1998; Terzolo, Pia et al. 2000; Baudin, Pellegriti et al. 2001; Heilmann, Wagner et al. 
2001; Ilias, Alevizaki et al. 2001). 
Laboratory findings 
Mitotane  reversibly  increases  the  blood  level  of  hormone-binding  proteins  (SHBG,  TBG,  CBG  and 
vitamin D-binding protein) (van Seters and Moolenaar 1991). The mechanism of this phenomenon is 
not  clear  but  may  involve  estrogen  excess,  leading  to  feminising  phenomena  (e.g.  gynecomastia) 
observed  during  mitotane  treatment.  This  finding  has  practical  consequences:  total  serum  hormone 
levels cannot be used as the only parameter to monitor the effects of mitotane on endocrine function. 
39/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  is  especially  relevant  for  the  monitoring  of  cortisol  substitution  that  therefore  requires 
measurements of free cortisol and ACTH levels. In this respect, a literature report (Hague, May et al. 
1989) indicates the occurrence of adrenal crisis in two patients treated with mitotane requiring the use 
of  high  amount  of  steroid  substitution.  These  adrenal  crises  were  associated  with  evidence  of  liver 
enzyme  induction  (shortening  of  antipyrine  half-life  during  mitotane  treatment),  which  may  have 
played  an  important  role  in  the  occurrence  of  the  steroid  resistance.  A  substantial  percentage  of  the 
patients treated show signs of adrenal insufficiency. It therefore appears necessary to institute steroid 
replacement in those patients. Since Lysodren increases plasma level of steroid binding proteins, free 
cortisol and ACTH determinations are necessary for optimal dosing of steroid substitution. 
Liver  function  tests  NOS  abnormal:  The  hepatotoxicity  of  mitotane  has  been  reviewed  (Neuman, 
Bruckert et al. 2001) in a retrospective review of 10 patients with Cushing syndrome (no patient had 
an adrenal carcinoma in this series), after a mean dose of 9 g per day. In all patients a raise of plasma 
cholesterol was noted. Before treatment, 3 patients had an increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase 
(ALAT). During treatment all patients had an increase of either alanine aminotransferase (ALAT) or 
gamma-glutamyltransferase  (gamma-GT),  or  both.  The  maximum  increase  was  6  times  the  upper 
normal  value,  for  mean  doses  of  approximately  9  grams  per  day.  The  increase  was  detected  after  2 
weeks on treatment in 4 patients, and within 4 months in the others. Treatment discontinuation led to 
normalisation within 4 months to one year. No case of liver failure were reported.  
Blood  and  the  lymphatic  system  disorders:  Cases  of  leucopenia,  decrease  in  leucocytes,  platelets  or 
erythrocytes were reported in some patients without any conclusion as to whether or not these effects 
are related to mitotane, or to the underlying disease of the patients. A reversible pancytopenia has been 
reported in a patient treated by mitotane (3g/day) for a paraneoplastic Cushing’s syndrome (Andres, 
Vinzio et al. 2001). 
Hypercholesterolaemia (HDL) has been reported during mitotane treatment (Vassilopoulou-Sellin and 
Samaan 1991; Maher, Trainer et al. 1992; Gebhardt, Moolenaar et al. 1993). The proposed mechanism 
of  action  is  a  blockade  of  cytochrome  P450-mediated  reactions  leading  to  a  down-regulation  of 
hepatic cholesterol  synthesis. The  use  of cholesterol-synthesis inhibitors (statins)  reverses this effect 
and can be proposed in association with mitotane treatment.  
Safety in special populations 
No  specific  data  addressing  the  safety  of  mitotane  in  children  were  included  in  the  Marketing 
Authorisation Application. However, based on the safety profile of the product observed in adults and 
based  on  the  information  included  in  the  US  product  information  for  Lysodren,  the  summary  of 
product  characteristics  for  Lysodren  states  that  neuro-psychological  retardation  may  be  observed 
during mitotane treatment. In such cases, thyroid function should be investigated in order to identify a 
possible  thyroid  impairment  linked  to  mitotane  treatment.  Ηypothyroidism  and  growth  retardation 
may be also observed during mitotane treatment. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Spironolactone: Mitotane should not be given in combination with spironolactone since this product 
may block the action of mitotane. This association is contra-indicated. 
Warfarin and coumarin-like anticoagulants: Mitotane has been reported to accelerate the metabolism 
of  warfarin  by  the  mechanism  of  hepatic  microsomal  enzyme  induction,  leading  to  an  increase  in 
dosage requirements for warfarin. Therefore, physicians should closely monitor patients for a change 
in  anticoagulant  dosage  requirements  when  administering  mitotane  to  patients  on  coumarin-like 
anticoagulants.  
Substances  metabolised  through  cytochrome  P450:  Mitotane  has  been  shown  to  have  an  inductive 
effect on cytochrome P450 enzymes. Therefore the plasma concentrations of the products metabolised 
via cytochrome P450 may be modified. In the absence of information on the specific P450 isoenzymes 
40/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
involved, caution should be taken when coprescribing active substances metabolised by this route such 
as, among others, anticonvulsants, rifabutin, rifampicin, griseofulvin and St. John’s Wort (Hypericum 
perforatum).   
Mitotane can give rise to central nervous system undesirable effects at high concentrations (see section 
4.8). Although no specific information on pharmacodynamic interactions in the central nervous system 
is available, this should be borne in mind when coprescribing medicinal products with central nervous 
system depressant action. 
Post marketing experience 
Finally, the five-year Periodic Safety Update Report covers the period from 8 July 1997 to 7 July 2002 
from Bristol  – Myers – Squibb  submitted to the Regulatory Authorities of  the third countries  where 
Lysodren  is  authorised  was  included  in  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  for  Lysodren.  The 
conclusion  of  this  document  is  that  during  the  period  covered  by  the  report  of  the  update,  no 
previously unrecognised adverse reaction has been identified and that no change of the safety section 
of the summary of product characteristics for Lysodren or patient information leaflet was warranted. 
Five  severe  adverse  reactions  were  reported  in  the  EU  (one  in  Germany  and  four  in  the  UK)  where 
Lysodren is available on a compassionate basis and four cases came from countries where Lysodren is 
approved (3 cases in the USA and one in Canada). 
There  were  two  cases  of  death:  both  were  related  to  the  progression  of  the  underlying  adrenal 
carcinoma and none appeared related to mitotane. 
The severe reactions occurring in 4 patients were reported during the period covered by the Periodic 
Safety  Update  Report.  These  cases  are  the  following:  death  (2  cases),  adrenocortical  carcinoma 
(1 case),  neoplasm  progression  (1 case),  anaemia  (1 case),  hyponatremia  (1 case),  diarrhoea  (1 case), 
nausea (1 case), erythema multiforme (1 case).  
The  cases  listed  in  this  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  broken  down  by  system  organ  class  are  the 
following: 
41/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders   
      N of cases 
Anaemia   
Eye disorders 
Vision blurred 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Vomiting  
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Death 
Fatigue 
Lethargy   
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Accidental exposure 
Investigations 
Liver function tests abnormal  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hyponatraemia 
Neoplasm benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps)   
Adrenocortical carcinoma 
Neoplasm progression 
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness  
Memory impairment 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Dyspnoea 
Pleural fibrosis 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders   
Erythema multiforme 
Rash erythematous   
Rash maculo-papular 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 
3 
1 
1 
1 
4 
2 
4 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Although no conclusion can be drawn from the present Safety Periodic Update Report regarding the 
relationship between dose of mitotane and occurrence of adverse events, literature indicates that some 
side effects appear to be dose-dependent and their occurrence and/or severity may be decreased when 
decreasing the daily dose. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Regarding  safety  aspects,  the  severity  of  inoperable  or  relapsing  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  could 
justify  the  use  of  a  product  that  can  induce  clinically  significant  undesirable  effects  in  a  high 
proportion  of  patients  (nore  than  80%).  The  most  frequently  observed  adverse  reactions  consist  of 
gastrointestinal,  neurological  toxicities  and  cutaneous  reactions.  In  addition,  as  outlined  above,  the 
availability  of  plasma  measurements  of  mitotane  could  help  prescribers  to  target  the  optimal 
therapeutic plasma levels (14 – 20 mg/l) and thus avoid the risk of serious adverse reactions which are 
dose-related  and  are  usually  observed  when  plasma  mitotane  levels  are  above  20  mg/l.  Hepatic 
reactions were reported and may be reversible when treatment is discontinued.  
Mitotane  is  contraindicated  in  combination  with  spironolactone.  Mitotane  has  been  reported  to 
accelerate  the  metabolism  of  warfarin  by  the  mechanism  of  hepatic  microsomal  enzyme  induction, 
leading  to  an  increase  in  dosage  requirements  for  warfarin.  Therefore,  physicians  should  closely 
monitor  patients  for  a  change  in  anticoagulant  dosage  requirements  when  administering  mitotane  to 
patients on coumarin-like anticoagulants.  
42/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  specific  data  addressing  the  safety  of  mitotane  in  children  were  included  in  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Application.  Neuro-psychological  retardation  may  be  observed  during  mitotane 
treatment. In such cases, thyroid function should be investigated in order to identify a possible thyroid 
impairment  linked  to  mitotane  treatment.  Growth  retardation  may  be  also  observed  during  mitotane 
treatment. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
At  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion,  a  number  of  quality  issues  were  not  completely  resolved, 
particularly in the context of in vitro control measures necessary to provide a comfortable margin of 
confidence concerning the satisfactory and reproducible bioavailability of mitotane from this product, 
from batch to batch. 
On  balance,  the  CPMP  has  reached  their  opinion  on  the  basis  of  an  ‘overall’  benefit/risk  balance, 
taking  into  account  the  clinical  usefulness  of  this  product  in  the  proposed  indication,  and  accepting 
that some  quality deficiencies have not been fully resolved at the time of the opinion. Consequently 
the  applicant  has  been  required  to  give  a  commitment  to  resolve  these  outstanding  quality  concerns 
within a defined timeframe, as post-opinion followup measures. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical data on the general toxicity of mitotane is limited. Reproductive toxicity studies indicate 
that DDT and other polychlorinated biphenyl analogues are recognised to have deleterious effects on 
fertility, pregnancy and  development, and  mitotane could  be expected to  share these properties. The 
genotoxic  and  carcinogenic  potential  of  mitotane  have  not  been  investigated.  The  administration  of 
mitotane is contraindicated in case of breast-feeding. 
Efficacy 
Mitotane is an adrenal cytotoxic active substance, although it can cause adrenal inhibition, apparently 
without  cellular  destruction.  Its  biochemical  mechanism  of  action  is  unknown.  Data  are  available  to 
suggest  that  mitotane  modifies  the  peripheral  metabolism  of  steroids  as  well  as  directly  suppressing 
the  adrenal  cortex.  The  administration  of  mitotane  alters  the  extra-adrenal  metabolism  of  cortisol  in 
man, leading to a reduction in  measurable  17-hydroxy corticosteroids, even though plasma levels of 
corticosteroids  do  not  fall.  Mitotane  apparently  causes  increased  formation  of  6-β-hydroxyl 
cholesterol. 
Mitotane has not been studied in a clinical therapeutic program. Available clinical information comes 
mainly from  published  data in patients  with  inoperable  or  metastatic adrenal  carcinoma. In  terms of 
overall  survival,  four  studies  conclude  that  mitotane  treatment  does  not  increase  the  survival  rate 
whereas five find an increase in the survival rate. Among the latter, three studies find such an increase 
only in patients in whom plasma mitotane is above 14 mg/l. In terms of total or partial tumour and/or 
metastasis  regression,  eleven  studies  have  shown  some  degree  of  improvement  and  sometimes-
occasional  prolonged  remissions.  However,  in  several  studies,  the  objective  criteria  for  evaluating 
tumour  response  are  missing  or  not  reported.  There  are  nevertheless  some  studies,  which  provide 
accurate information on tumour regression or disappearance and demonstrate that the threshold of 14 
mg/l appears necessary to induce an objective tumour regression. In addition, mitotane induces a state 
of  adrenal  insufficiency,  which  leads  to  the  disappearance  of  Cushing  syndrome  in  patients  with 
secreting adrenal carcinoma, and necessitates substitution hormonotherapy.   
Paediatric population: The efficacy in patients under the age of 18 years has not been established and, 
at  present  only  very  limited  data  are  available  in this  age  group.  Clinical  information  comes  mainly 
from  a  large  retrospective  trial  in  children  (median  age,  4  years)  who  had  an  unresectable  primary 
tumor  or  who  presented  a  tumor  recurrence  or  a  metastasic  disease;  most  of  the  children  (75%) 
presented with endocrine symptoms. Mitotane was given alone or combined with chemotherapy with 
43/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
various  agents.  Overall,  the  disease-free  interval  was  7  months  (2  to  16  months).  There  were 
recurrences in 40% of children; the survival rate at 5 years was 49%. 
Safety 
Regarding  safety  aspects,  the  severity  of  inoperable  or  relapsing  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  could 
justify  the  use  of  a  product  that  can  induce  clinically  significant  undesirable  effects  in  a  high 
proportion  of  patients  (more  than  80%).  The  most  frequently  observed  adverse  reactions  consist  of 
gastrointestinal,  neurological  toxicities  and  cutaneous  reactions.  In  addition,  as  outlined  above,  the 
availability  of  plasma  measurements  of  mitotane  could  help  prescribers  to  target  the  optimal 
therapeutic plasma levels (14 – 20 mg/l) and thus avoid the risk of serious adverse reactions which are 
dose-related  and  are  usually  observed  when  plasma  mitotane  levels  are  above  20  mg/l.  Hepatic 
reactions were reported and may be reversible when treatment is discontinued.  
Mitotane  is  contraindicated  in  combination  with  spironolactone.  Mitotane  has  been  reported  to 
accelerate  the  metabolism  of  warfarin  by  the  mechanism  of  hepatic  microsomal  enzyme  induction, 
leading  to  an  increase  in  dosage  requirements  for  warfarin.  Therefore,  physicians  should  closely 
monitor  patients  for  a  change  in  anticoagulant  dosage  requirements  when  administering  mitotane  to 
patients on coumarin-like anticoagulants.  
No  specific  data  addressing  the  safety  of  mitotane  in  children  were  included  in  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Application.  Neuro-psychological  retardation  may  be  observed  during  mitotane 
treatment. In such cases, thyroid function should be investigated in order to identify a possible thyroid 
impairment  linked  to  mitotane  treatment.  Growth  retardation  may  be  also  observed  during  mitotane 
treatment. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  three  main  questions  concerning  the  clinical  efficacy  of  mitotane  were  discussed  on 
17 November 2003 after the CPMP proposed to consult the Therapeutic Advisory Group in Oncology. 
Three  main  questions  related  to  the  indication  of  mitotane,  the  possible  existence  of  a 
the  post-authorisation 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  relationship  and 
commitments.  
the  relevance  of 
On  the  basis  of  the  experience  of  use  and  published  data,  the  CPMP  asked  the  TAG  to  discuss  the 
possible  effect  of  mitotane  in  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  (unresectable, 
metastatic  or  relapsed)  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  and  a  possible  limitation  of  the  effect  to  those 
patients  with  functional  tumours.  The  TAG  considered  that  on  the  basis  of  published  data  that 
mitotane has a clinically relevant effect in the symptomatic treatment of patients with advanced (i.e. 
unresectable, metastatic or relapsed) adrenal cortical carcinoma. In addition, the majority of patients 
(an estimated 70%) suffer from a functional adrenal cortical carcinoma. However, the TAG considered 
that  a  beneficial  effect  could  be  expected  in  all  patients  with  advanced  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma 
whether the tumour is functional or not. Therefore, the product should be indicated in the treatment of 
patients  with  advanced  (i.e.  unresectable,  metastatic  or  relapsed)  adrenal  cortical  carcinoma  without 
distinction whether the tumour is functional or not. 
The  TAG  was  asked  to  discuss  the  proposal  for  dosing  mitotane.  The  TAG  considered  that  this 
therapeutic monitoring of plasma levels is pertinent and should be reflected in the summary of product 
characteristics  for  Lysodren.  However,  the  TAG  emphasised  that  the  availability  of  a  monitoring  of 
plasma  level  is  not  a  mandatory  monitoring  to  treat  and  monitor  the  patients  with  advanced  (i.e. 
unresectable, metastatic or relapsed) adrenal cortical carcinoma. On the basis of the experience of use 
of mitotane, the monitoring of plasma level of mitotane may help the practitioners to administer higher 
starting doses (4 – 6 g/day) of mitotane and achieve the desired effective plasma levels of the product 
(estimated to be approximately 14 mg/L) more rapidly than in the situation where this monitoring is 
not conducted. Therefore, the Therapeutic Advisory Group considered that this monitoring should be 
mentioned  in  the  “special  warnings  and  special  precautions  for  use”  of  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics for Lysodren and should be recommended when a high starting dose of mitotane (i.e. 6 
44/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
g/day)  is  given  to  the  patients.  If  such  monitoring  is  unavailable  lower  starting  doses  of  mitotane 
should be recommended (3-4 g/day). On the basis of the experience of use of mitotane the TAG stated 
that  there  might  be  a  relationship  between  high  plasma  levels  of  mitotane  (above  20  mg/L)  and  the 
occurrence of neurological toxicity. Therefore a monitoring of plasma levels of mitotane may help to 
prevent  the  occurrence  of  this  neurological  toxicity.  The  TAG  considered  again,  that  this  should  be 
reflected in the summary of product characteristics for Lysodren. 
Finally,  the  TAG  was  requested  to  discuss  the  adequacy  and  feasibility  of  the  studies  the  Applicant 
committed to perform once a  marketing authorisation may be granted. The TAG considered that the 
Applicant  should  perform  the  prospective  evaluation  of  mitotane  and  should  conduct  (at  least)  two 
prospective  studies.  The  first  one  should  be  a  prospective  evaluation  of  Lysodren  in  the  target 
population  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  the  product.  In  addition,  the  TAG 
considered that the Applicant should conduct a second prospective study (in the form of a prospective 
registry for example) in patients treated with mitotane to better characterise the relationship between 
the plasma levels and the occurrence of a neurological toxicity. Considering the incidence of adrenal 
cortical carcinoma (two new cases per million per year, meaning that up to 30 to 40 new patients may 
be treated with Lysodren a year in the EU) the TAG considered that such study could be completed 
within 3 to 4 years. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Lysodren  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  adrenal  cortical 
carcinoma. 
45/45 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
