ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▼This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1.   NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lytgobi 4 mg film-coated tablets 
2.   QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 4 mg of futibatinib. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 5.4 mg lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.   PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Round (6 mm), white, film-coated tablet debossed on one side with “4MG” and “FBN” on the 
reverse. 
4.   CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1   Therapeutic indications 
Lytgobi monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or 
rearrangement that have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy.  
4.2   Posology and method of administration 
Lytgobi therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
patients with biliary tract cancer.  
Presence of FGFR2 gene fusions or rearrangements should be confirmed by an appropriate diagnostic 
test prior to initiation of Lytgobi therapy.  
Posology  
The recommended starting dose is 20 mg futibatinib taken orally once daily. 
If a dose of futibatinib is missed by more than 12 hours or vomiting occurs after taking a dose, an 
additional dose should not be taken, and treatment should be resumed with the next scheduled dose.  
Treatment should be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.  
In all patients, dietary restrictions that limit phosphate intake are recommended as part of 
hyperphosphatemia management. A phosphate-lowering therapy should be initiated when serum 
phosphate level is ≥ 5.5 mg/dL. If the serum phosphate level is > 7 mg/dL, the dose of futibatinib 
should be modified based on the duration and severity of hyperphosphatemia (see Table 2). Prolonged 
hyperphosphatemia can cause soft tissue mineralization, including cutaneous calcification, vascular 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
calcification, and myocardial calcification (see section 4.4).  
If Lytgobi treatment is stopped or serum phosphate level falls below normal range,  
phosphate-lowering therapy and diet should be discontinued. Severe hypophosphatemia may present 
with confusion, seizures, focal neurologic findings, heart failure, respiratory failure, muscle weakness, 
rhabdomyolysis, and hemolytic anemia. 
Dose adjustment due to drug interaction 
Concomitant use of futibatinib with strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of futibatinib with strong CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitors, such as itraconazole, should be 
avoided (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If this is not possible, based on careful monitoring of tolerability, a 
futibatinib dose reduction to the next lower level should be considered. 
Concomitant use of futibatinib with strong or moderate CYP3A/P-gp inducers 
Co-administration of futibatinib with strong or moderate CYP3A4/P-gp inducers, such as rifampicin, 
should be avoided (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). If this is not possible, gradually increasing the futibatinib 
dose based on careful monitoring of tolerability should be considered. 
Management of toxicities 
Dose modifications or interruption of dosing should be considered for the management of toxicities. 
The recommended dose reduction levels are provided in Table 1. 
Table 1:  
Recommended futibatinib dose reduction levels 
Dose 
20 mg taken orally once daily  
Dose reduction levels 
First 
16 mg taken orally once daily  
Second 
12 mg taken orally once daily  
Treatment should be permanently discontinued if patient is unable to tolerate 12 mg futibatinib once 
daily. 
Dose modifications for hyperphosphatemia are provided in Table 2. 
Table 2: 
 Dose modifications for hyperphosphatemia 
Adverse reaction 
Serum phosphate 
≥5.5 mg/dL - ≤ 7 mg/dL 
Serum phosphate 
>7 mg/dL - ≤ 10 mg/dL 
Serum phosphate 
>10 mg/dL 
•  Initiate phosphate lowering therapy and monitor serum phosphate 
Futibatinib dose modification 
weekly 
•  Futibatinib should be continued at current dose 
•  Initiate/intensify phosphate lowering therapy and monitor serum 
phosphate weekly AND 
•  Dose reduce futibatinib to next lower dose  
– 
– 
– 
If the serum phosphate resolves to ≤7.0 mg/dL within 2 weeks 
after dose reduction, continue at this reduced dose 
If serum phosphate is not ≤ 7.0 mg/dL within 2 weeks, further 
reduce futibatinib to the next lower dose  
If serum phosphate is not ≤ 7.0 mg/dL within 2 weeks after the 
second dose reduction, withhold futibatinib until serum 
phosphate is ≤ 7.0 mg/dL and resume at the dose prior to 
suspending 
•  Initiate/intensify phosphate lowering therapy and monitor serum 
phosphate weekly AND 
•  Suspend futibatinib until phosphate is ≤ 7.0 mg/dL and resume 
futibatinib at the next lower dose 
•  Permanently discontinue futibatinib if serum phosphate is not ≤ 7.0 
mg/dL within 2 weeks following 2 dose reductions  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose modifications for serous retinal detachment are provided in Table 3. 
Table 3: 
Dose modifications for serous retinal detachment 
Adverse reaction 
Asymptomatic  
Moderate decrease in visual acuity (best 
corrected visual acuity 20/40 or better or ≤ 3 
lines of decreased vision from baseline); 
limiting instrumental activities of daily living  
Futibatinib dose modification 
•  Continue futibatinib at current dose. Monitoring 
should be performed as described in section 4.4.  
•  Withhold futibatinib. If improved on subsequent 
examination, futibatinib should be resumed at 
the next lower dose level. 
•  If symptoms recur, persist or examination does 
not improve, permanent discontinuation of 
futibatinib should be considered based on 
clinical status. 
Marked decrease in visual acuity (best 
corrected visual acuity worse than 20/40 or 
>3 lines decreased vision from baseline up to 
20/200); limiting activities of daily living  
•  Withhold futibatinib until resolution. If 
improved on subsequent examination, 
futibatinib may be resumed at 2 dose levels 
lower.  
Visual acuity worse than 20/200 in affected 
eye; limiting activities of daily living  
•  If symptoms recur, persist or examination does 
not improve, permanent discontinuation of 
futibatinib should be considered based on 
clinical status. 
•  Permanent discontinuation of futibatinib should 
be considered based on clinical status. 
Dose modifications for other adverse reactions are provided in Table 4. 
Table 4: 
Dose modifications for other adverse reactions 
Other Adverse 
Reactions 
Grade 3a 
•  Withhold futibatinib until toxicity resolves to Grade 1 or 
baseline, then resume futibatinib  
– for hematological toxicities resolving within 1 week, at 
the dose prior to suspending.  
– for other adverse reactions, at next lower dose. 
a Severity as defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI 
Grade 4a 
Permanently discontinue futibatinib 
CTCAE version 4.03). 
Special populations  
Elderly  
No specific dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (≥ 65 years) (see section 5.1).  
Renal impairment 
Dose adjustment is not required for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance [CLcr] 30 to 89 mL/min estimated by Cockcroft-Gault). There are no data in patients with 
severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min) or for patients with end-stage renal disease receiving 
intermittent haemodialysis and therefore no dosing recommendation can be made (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment  
No dose adjustment is required when administering futibatinib to patients with mild (Child-Pugh class 
A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), or severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment. However, 
there is no safety data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. (see section 5.2).  
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of futibatinib in children less than 18 years of age have not been established. 
No data are available. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Lytgobi is for oral use. The tablets should be taken with or without food at about the same time each 
day. The tablets should be swallowed whole to ensure that the full dose is administered.  
4.3   Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4   Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hyperphosphatemia 
Hyperphosphatemia is a pharmacodynamic effect expected with futibatinib administration (see 
section 5.1). Prolonged hyperphosphatemia may cause soft tissue mineralization, including cutaneous 
calcification, vascular calcification, and myocardial calcification, anaemia, hyperparathyroidism, and 
hypocalcemia that may cause muscle cramps, QT interval prolongation, and arrythmias (see section 
4.2).  
Recommendations for management of hyperphosphatemia include dietary phosphate restriction, 
administration of phosphate-lowering therapy, and dose modification when required (see section 4.2).  
Phosphate-lowering therapy was used by 83.4 % of patients during treatment with futibatinib (see 
section 4.8). 
Serous retinal detachment  
Futibatinib can cause serous retinal detachment, which may present with symptoms such as blurred 
vision, visual floaters, or photopsia (see section 4.8). This can moderately influence the ability to 
drive and use machines (see section 4.7) 
Ophthalmological examination should be performed prior to initiation of therapy, 6 weeks thereafter, 
and urgently at any time for visual symptoms. For serous retinal detachment reactions, the dose 
modification guidelines should be followed (see section 4.2).  
During the conduct of the clinical study, there was no routine monitoring, including optical coherence 
tomography (OCT), to detect asymptomatic serous retinal detachment; therefore, the incidence of 
asymptomatic serous retinal detachment with futibatinib is unknown.  
Careful consideration should be taken with patients that have clinically significant medical eye 
disorders, such as retinal disorders, including but not limited to, central serous retinopathy, 
macular/retinal degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and previous retinal detachment. 
Dry eye 
Futibatinib can cause dry eye (see section 4.8). Patients should use ocular demulcents, in order to 
prevent or treat dry eye, as needed. 
Embryo-foetal toxicity  
Based on the mechanism of action and findings in an animal study (see section 5.3), futibatinib can 
cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Pregnant women should be advised of the 
potential risk to the foetus. An effective method of contraception should be used in women of 
childbearing potential and in men with women partners of childbearing potential during treatment 
with Lytgobi and for 1 week following completion of therapy, barrier methods should be applied as a 
second form of contraception to avoid pregnancy (see section 4.6). A pregnancy test should be 
performed before treatment initiation to exclude pregnancy. 
Combination with strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors  
Concomitant use of strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors should be avoided because it may increase 
futibatinib plasma concentration (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combination with strong or moderate CYP3A/P-gp inducers  
Concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A/P-gp inducers should be avoided because it may 
decrease futibatinib plasma concentration (see sections 4.2 and 4.5).  
Lactose 
Lytgobi contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
Sodium 
Lytgobi contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially “sodium-free”.  
4.5   Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on futibatinib  
CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors  
Co-administrations of multiple doses of 200 mg itraconazole, a strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitor, 
increased futibatinib Cmax by 51% and AUC by 41% following a single oral dose of 20 mg futibatinib. 
Therefore, the concomitant use of strong CYP3A/P-gp inhibitors (e.g. clarithromycin, itraconazole) 
may increase futibatinib plasma concentration and should be avoided. If this is not possible, a 
reduction in the futibatinib dose to the next lower dose level based on tolerability observed should be 
considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).   
CYP3A/P-gp inducers  
Co-administrations of multiple doses of 600 mg rifampin, a strong CYP3A/P-gp inducer, decreased 
futibatinib Cmax by 53% and AUC by 64% following a single oral dose of 20 mg futibatinib. 
Therefore, the concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A/P-gp inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, 
phenytoin, phenobarbital, efavirenz, rifampin) may decrease futibatinib plasma concentration and 
should be avoided. If this is not possible, gradually increasing the futibatinib dose based on careful 
monitoring of tolerability should be considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Proton pump inhibitors  
Futibatinib geometric mean ratios for Cmax and AUC were 108 % and 105 %, respectively, when  
co-administered in healthy subjects with lansoprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) relative to futibatinib 
alone. Co-administrations of a proton pump inhibitor (lansoprazole) did not result in a clinically 
important change in futibatinib exposure.  
Effects of futibatinib on other medicinal products  
Effect of futibatinib on CYP3A substrate 
Midazolam (a CYP3A sensitive substrate) geometric mean ratios for Cmax and AUC were 95 % and 
91 %, respectively, when co-administered in healthy subjects with futibatinib relative to midazolam 
alone. Co-administrations of futibatinib had no clinically significant impact on midazolam exposure.  
Effect of futibatinib on P-gp and BCRP substrates 
In vitro, futibatinib is an inhibitor of P-gp and BCRP. Co-administration of futibatinib with P-gp (e.g., 
digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine) or BCRP (e.g, rosuvastatin) substrates may increase their exposure. 
Effect of futibatinib on CYP1A2 substrates 
In vitro studies indicate that futibatinib has the potential to induce CYP1A2. Co-administration of 
futibatinib with CYP1A2 sensitive substrates (e.g, olanzapine, theophylline) may decrease their 
exposure and therefore may affect their activity.   
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hormonal contraceptives 
It is currently unknown whether futibatinib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting 
hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives 
should add a barrier method during Lytgobi treatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose (see 
section 4.6). 
4.6   Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception  in males and females 
An effective method of contraception should be used in women of childbearing potential and in men 
with women partners of childbearing potential during treatment with Lytgobi and for 1 week 
following completion of therapy. Since the effect of futibatinib on the metabolism and efficacy of 
contraceptives has not been investigated, barrier methods should be applied as a second form of 
contraception to avoid pregnancy.  
Pregnancy  
There are no available data from the use of futibatinib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown embryo-foetal toxicity (see section 5.3). Lytgobi should not be used during pregnancy unless 
the potential benefit for the women justifies the potential risk to the foetus.    
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether futibatinib or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the  
breast-fed newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with Lytgobi and for 1 week after the last dose.  
Fertility  
There are no data on the effect of futibatinib on human fertility. Animal fertility studies have not been 
conducted with futibatinib (see section 5.3). Based on the pharmacology of futibatinib, impairment of 
male and female fertility cannot be excluded. 
4.7   Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Futibatinib has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised to be cautious when driving or operating machines in case they experience fatigue or visual 
disturbances during the treatment with Lytgobi (see section 4.4). 
4.8   Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most common (≥20%) adverse reactions were hyperphosphatemia (89.7%), nail disorders 
(44.1%), constipation (37.2%), alopecia (35.2%), diarrhoea (33.8%), dry mouth (31.0%), fatigue 
(31.0%), nausea (28.3%), dry skin (27.6%), increased AST (26.9%), abdominal pain (24.8%), 
stomatitis (24.8%), vomiting (23.4%), palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (22.8%), 
arthralgia (21.4%), and decreased appetite (20.0%). 
The most common serious adverse reactions were intestinal obstruction (1.4%) and migraine (1.4%).  
Permanent discontinuation due to adverse reactions was reported in 7.6% of patients; the most 
common adverse reaction led to dose discontinuation was stomatitis (1.4%),all other adverse reactions 
were single occurrence. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
Table 5 summarises the adverse reactions occurring in 145 patients treated in the indicated population 
of Study TAS-120-101. Median duration of exposure of futibatinib was 8.87 months (min: 0.5,  
max: 31.7). Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class (SOC). Frequency 
categories are very common (≥ 1/10) and common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 5: Adverse reactions observed in the indicated population in TAS-120-101 study (N=145) 
– frequency reported by incidence of treatment emergent events 
System organ class 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Adverse reactions 
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Hyperphosphatemia 
Decreased appetite  
Hyponatraemia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Dysgeusia 
Migraine 
Dry eye 
Serous retinal detachmenta 
Stomatitis 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea  
Constipation 
Dry mouth 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
Intestinal obstruction 
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome  
Nail disordersb 
Dry skin 
Alopecia 
Very common  Myalgia 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Arthralgia 
Fatigue  
Liver transaminases increased   
Very common 
a Includes serous retinal detachment, detachment of retinal pigment epithelium, subretinal fluid, 
chorioretinopathy, macular oedema, and maculopathy. See below “Serous retinal detachment”.  
b Includes nail toxicity, nail bed tenderness, nail disorder, nail discolouration, nail dystrophy, nail hypertrophy, 
nail infection, nail pigmentation, onychalgia, onychoclasis, onycholysis, onychomadesis, onychomycosis and 
paronychia 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Hyperphosphatemia  
Hyperphosphatemia was reported in 89.7% of patients treated with futibatinib and 27.6% patients had 
Grade 3 events, defined as serum phosphate > 7 mg/dL and ≤ 10 mg/dL irrespective of clinical 
symptoms. The median time to onset of hyperphosphatemia of any grade was 6.0 days (range: 3.0 to 
117.0 days).  
None of the reactions were Grade 4 or 5 in severity, serious, or led to discontinuation of futibatinib. 
Dose interruption occurred in 18.6 % patients and reduction in 17.9 % of patients. 
Hyperphosphatemia was manageable with dietary phosphate restriction and/or administration of 
phosphate lowering therapy and /or dose modification. 
Recommendations for management of hyperphosphatemia are provided in sections 4.2 and 4.4.  
Serous retinal detachment  
Serous retinal detachment occurred in 6.2 % of patients treated with futibatinib. Reactions were all 
Grade 1 or 2 in severity. Dose interruption occurred in 2.1 % patients and reduction in 2.1 % of 
patients. None of the reactions led to discontinuation of futibatinib. Serous retinal detachment was 
generally manageable.   
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations for management of serous retinal detachment are provided in sections 4.2 and 4.4.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9   Overdose 
There is no information on overdose of futibatinib. 
5.   PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01 EN04   
Mechanism of action 
Constitutive fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) signalling can support the proliferation and 
survival of malignant cells. Futibatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that irreversibly inhibits FGFR 1, 
2, 3, and 4 by covalent binding. Futibatinib exhibited in vitro inhibitory activity against FGFR2 
resistance mutations (N550H, V565I, E566G, K660M).   
Pharmacodynamic effects  
Serum phosphate  
Futibatinib increased serum phosphate level as a consequence of FGFR inhibition.  
Phosphate-lowering therapy and dose modifications are recommended to manage hyperphosphatemia: 
see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8.  
Clinical efficacy and safety  
TAS-120-101 a multicentre, open-label, single-arm study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 
futibatinib in previously treated patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic intrahepatic 
cholangiocarcinoma. Patients with prior FGFR-directed therapy were excluded. The efficacy 
population consists of 103 patients that had progressed on or after at least 1 prior gemcitabine and 
platinum-based chemotherapy and had FGFR2 fusion (77.7%) or rearrangement (22.3%), as 
determined by tests performed at central or local laboratories. 
Patients received futibatinib orally once daily at a dose of 20 mg until disease progression or 
unacceptable toxicity. The primary efficacy outcome measure was objective response rate (ORR) as 
determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to RECIST v1.1, with duration of 
response (DoR) as a key secondary endpoint.  
The median age was 58 years (range: 22 to 79 years), 22.3% were ≥65 years, 56.3% were female, 
49.5% were Caucasian. All (100 %) patients had a baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG) performance status of 0 (46.6 %) or 1 (53.4 %). All patients had at least 1 prior line of 
systemic therapy, 30.1% had 2 prior lines of therapy, and 23.3% had 3 or more prior lines of therapy. 
All patients had received prior platinum-based therapy including 91% with prior gemcitabine/ 
cisplatin. 
Efficacy results are summarized in Table 6. The median time to response was 2.5 months (range 
0.7 – 7.4 months). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6:  
Efficacy results 
ORR (95 % CI) a 
Partial response (N) 
Median duration of response (months) (95% CI)b 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of duration of response (95 % CI) 
3 months 
6 months 
9 months 
12 months 
Efficacy Evaluable Population 
(N = 103) 
42% (32, 52)  
42% (43)  
9.7 (7.6, 17.1) 
100 (100, 100) 
85.1 (69.8, 93.1) 
52.8 (34.2, 68.3) 
37.0 (18.4, 55.7) 
ORR = Complete Response + Partial Response 
CI= Confidence Interval 
Note: Data are from IRC per RECIST v1.1, and complete and partial responses are confirmed. 
aThe 95 % CI was calculated using the Clopper–Pearson method 
bThe 95% CI was constructed based on a log-log transformed CI for the survival function. 
In addition to the primary analysis presented here, an interim analysis was conducted without plans to 
stop the study. Results from both analyses were consistent. The primary analysis for DoR included 
censoring for new anti-cancer treatment, progressive disease or death after two or more missed 
tumour assessments, or at least 21 days after treatment discontinuation. 
Elderly patients  
In the clinical study of futibatinib, 22.3% of patients were 65 years and older. No difference in 
efficacy was detected between these patients and in patients < 65 years of age.  
Paediatric population  
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Lytgobi in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma. See section 
4.2 for information in paediatric use.  
Conditional approval 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This 
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. The European Medicines Agency 
will review new information on this medicinal product at least every year and this SmPC will be 
updated as necessary. 
5.2   Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of futibatinib were evaluated in patients with advanced cancer administered 
20 mg once daily unless otherwise specified.  
Futibatinib exhibits linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 4 to 24 mg. Steady-state was 
reached after the first dose with a geometric mean accumulation ratio of 1.03. The geometric mean 
steady-state AUCss was 790 ng·h/mL (44.7% gCV) and Cmax,ss was 144 ng/mL (50.3% gCV) at the 
recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily.  
Absorption  
Median time to achieve peak plasma concentration (tmax) was 2 (range: 1.2 to 22.8) hours.  
No clinically meaningful differences in futibatinib pharmacokinetics were observed following 
administration of a high-fat and high-calorie meal (900 calories to 1000 calories with approximately 
50% of total caloric content of the meal from fat) in healthy subjects.  
Distribution  
Futibatinib is approximately 95% bound to human plasma proteins, predominantly to albumin and  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
α1-acid glycoprotein. The estimated apparent volume of distribution was 66.1 L (17.5%).  
Biotransformation  
Futibatinib is predominantly metabolised by CYP3A (40-50%) as well as glutathione conjugation  
(50-60%) in vitro. Following oral administration of a single 20 mg radiolabelled futibatinib dose in 
healthy adult male subjects, the main drug-related moiety in plasma was unchanged futibatinib 
(59.19% of the total sample radioactivity) in a human [14C] mass balance study in healthy adult male 
subjects, followed by one inactive metabolite, a cysteinylglycine conjugate TAS-06-22952 (at >10% 
of dose).  
Elimination  
The mean elimination half-life (t1/2) of futibatinib was 2.94 (26.5% CV) hours and the geometric mean 
apparent clearance (CL/F) was 19.8 L/h (23.0%). 
Excretion  
Following a single oral dose of 20 mg radiolabelled futibatinib in healthy adult male subjects, 
approximately 64% of the dose was recovered in faeces and 6% in urine. Futibatinib excretion in 
unchanged form was negligible in either urine or faeces. 
Drug-drug interactions  
Effect of futibatinib on CYP enzymes 
In vitro studies indicate that futibatinib does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP2D6 or CYP3A, and does not induce CYP2B6 or CYP3A4 at clinically relevant 
concentrations. 
Effect of futibatinib on drug transporters  
In vitro studies indicated that futibatinib inhibited P-gp and BCRP, but didn’t inhibit OAT1, OAT3, 
OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1 or MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations.  Futibatinib 
is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP in vitro. Inhibition of BCRP is not expected to result in clinically 
relevant changes in the exposure of futibatinib. 
Special populations 
No clinically meaningful differences in the systemic exposure (less than 25% difference in AUC) of 
futibatinib were observed based on age (18 - 82 years), sex, race/ethnicity, body weight (36 - 152 kg), 
mild to moderate renal impairment, or hepatic impairment. The effect of severe renal impairment and 
renal dialysis in end-stage renal disease on futibatinib exposure is unknown (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Compared to subjects with normal hepatic function, systemic exposure following a single dose of 
futibatinib was similar in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh class A), moderate (Child-Pugh class B), or 
severe (Child-Pugh class C) hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Exposure-response relationship 
Dose-dependent increase in blood phosphate levels was observed following once daily futibatinib 4 
mg to 24 mg dose range. 
No statistically significant exposure-efficacy relationships observed for ORR within the exposure 
range produced by futibatinib 20 mg once daily regimen. 
5.3   Preclinical safety data 
Repeat-dose toxicity  
The main toxicological findings following repeat-dose administration of futibatinib in both rats and 
dogs were related to the pharmacological activity of futibatinib as an irreversible inhibitor of FGFR, 
including increased inorganic phosphorus and calcium in plasma, ectopic mineralization in various 
organs and tissues, lesions in bone/cartilage at futibatinib exposures lower than the human exposure at 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
the clinical dose of 20 mg. Corneal lesions were found only in rats. These effects were reversible with 
the exception of ectopic mineralization. 
Genotoxicity 
Futibatinib was not mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay. It was positive 
in the in vitro chromosome aberration test in cultured Chinese hamster lung cell (CHL/IU), but 
negative in the bone marrow micronucleus assay in rat and didn’t induce DNA damage in comet assay 
in rats. Thus, futibatinib is overall non-genotoxic.  
Carcinogenicity  
Carcinogenicity studies with futibatinib have not been conducted.  
Impairment of fertility  
Dedicated fertility studies with futibatinib have not been conducted. In repeat dose toxicity studies, 
oral administration of futibatinib did not result in any dose-related findings likely to result in impaired 
fertility in male or female reproductive organs.  
Developmental toxicity  
Oral administration of futibatinib to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in 100% 
post-implantation loss at 10 mg/kg per day (approximately 3.15 times the human exposure by AUC at 
the recommended clinical dose). At 0.5 mg/kg per day (approximately 0.15 times the human exposure 
by AUC at the recommended clinical dose), reduced mean foetal body weight, an increase in foetal 
skeletal and visceral malformations including major blood vessel variations were observed. 
6.   PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1   List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Mannitol (E421) 
Maize starch 
Lactose monohydrate 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Crospovidone 
Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463) 
Magnesium stearate  
Film-coating 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Macrogols 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Lustering agent 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2   Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3   Shelf life 
4 years.  
6.4   Special precautions for storage 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5   Nature and contents of container  
PVC/PCTFE laminated blisters with aluminium foil backing with one tablet per cavity. Each blister 
contains a 7-day supply of film-coated tablets sealed inside a folding cardboard wallet in the 
following three dose packs:  
•  20 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 35 tablets (5 tablets once daily).   
•  16 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 28 tablets (4 tablets once daily).   
•  12 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 21 tablets (3 tablets once daily).    
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6   Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements for disposal. 
7.   MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taiho Pharma Netherlands B.V. 
Barbara Strozzilaan 201 
1083HN Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
8.   MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Lytgobi 4 mg tablets 
EU/1/23/1741/001 
EU/1/23/1741/002 
EU/1/23/1741/003 
9.   DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 04 July 2023 
10.   DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
13 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
PCI Pharma Services (Millmount Healthcare Limited) 
Block 7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 months 
following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of futibatinib in adult patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 fusions or 
rearrangements that has progressed after at least one prior line of systemic 
therapy, the MAH should submit the results of FOENIX-CCA4 (TAS-120-205), 
a phase 2 study of futibatinib at a starting dose of 20 mg QD (Arm A) and 16 mg 
QD (Arm B) in such patients.  
Due date 
October 2027 
16 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
WALLET CARD FOR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lytgobi 4 mg film-coated tablets 
futibatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 4 mg futibatinib.   
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
21 tablets 
28 tablets 
35 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
12 mg daily dose 
16 mg daily dose 
20 mg daily dose 
Take three tablets once daily 
Take four tablets once daily 
Take five tablets once daily 
Day 1 
Day 2 
Day 3 
Day 4 
Day 5 
Day 6 
Day 7 
Push tablet through to the other side. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taiho Pharma Netherlands B.V. 
Barbara Strozzilaan 201 
1083HN Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1741/001 
EU/1/23/1741/002 
EU/1/23/1741/003 
21 tablets 
28 tablets 
35 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Lytgobi 4 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
21 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Lytgobi 4 mg  
futibatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  OTHER 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Lytgobi 4 mg film-coated tablets 
futibatinib 
▼This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
•  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
• 
•  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
• 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Lytgobi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Lytgobi 
3.  How to take Lytgobi 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Lytgobi 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Lytgobi is and what it is used for 
Lytgobi contains the active substance futibatinib, which belongs to a group of cancer medicines called 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors. It blocks the action of a protein in the cell, called fibroblast growth factor 
receptor (FGFR), that helps regulate cell growth. Cancer cells may have an abnormal form of this 
protein. By blocking FGFR, futibatinib can prevent the growth of such cancer cells. 
Lytgobi is used on its own (monotherapy)to treat adults with bile duct cancer (also known as 
cholangiocarcinoma) that has spread or cannot be removed by surgery in patients who have already 
received previous treatment, and whose tumour has a certain type of abnormal “FGFR”. 
2. 
What you need to know before you take Lytgobi 
Do not take Lytgobi if you are allergic to futibatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Lytgobi if you have: 
• 
been told you have high levels of phosphate in your blood (a condition known as 
hyperphosphataemia) based on a blood test result 
vision or eye problems such as problems with the retina (light-sensitive layers of nerve tissue at 
the back of the eye) 
• 
Eye examinations are recommended: 
• 
• 
before starting treatment with Lytgobi 
6 weeks thereafter or at any time if any visual or eye problems occur.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lytgobi can cause serous retinal detachment (retina pulls away from its normal position). Symptoms 
include blurred vision, flashes of light in the field of vision (photopsia) and small dark shapes moving 
in the field of vision (floaters). Tell your doctor straight away if you get any problems with your 
vision. 
Lytgobi can cause high levels of phosphate in your blood and may lead to a build-up of minerals such 
as calcium in different tissues in your body. Your doctor may prescribe changes in your diet, 
phosphate lowering therapy, or change or stop treatment with Lytgobi if needed. Tell your doctor 
straight away if you develop painful skin lesions, any muscle cramps, numbness or tingling around 
your mouth, or an abnormal heartbeat.    
Lytgobi may harm the unborn baby. If you are a woman of childbearing age or your partner is of 
childbearing capacity, you must use an effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after 
the last dose of Lytgobi. Because it is not known if Lytgobi decreases the effectiveness of birth 
control medication, barrier methods should be applied in addition to such medication to avoid 
pregnancy. 
Children and adolescents 
Lytgobi should not be given to children or adolescents under 18 years. It is not known whether it is 
safe and effective in this age group. 
Other medicines and Lytgobi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines. 
itraconazole: a medicine to treat fungal infections  
clarithromycin: medicines to treat certain infections 
rifampicin: a medicine to treat tuberculosis or certain other infections  
carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital: medicines to treat epilepsy  
efavirenz: medicine to treat HIV infection  
In particular, you should tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines so that the 
doctor can decide if your treatment needs to change: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  digoxin: a medicine to treat heart disease  
•  dabigatran: a medicine to prevent blood clots  
• 
colchicine: a medicine to treat gout attacks 
• 
rosuvastatin: a medicine to treat high cholesterol  
• 
theophylline: a medicine to treat breathing problems 
• 
olanzapine: a medicine to manage symptoms of mental health conditions 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
•  Pregnancy /Contraception -information for women 
You should not become pregnant during the treatment with Lytgobi because this medicine could 
harm your baby. A pregnancy test should be performed before initiating treatment, and women 
who could become pregnant must use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week 
after the last dose of Lytgobi. Barrier methods should be applied as a second form of 
contraception to avoid pregnancy. Talk to your doctor about the most suitable contraception for 
you. 
•  Contraception -information for men  
You should not conceive a child during treatment with Lytgobi because this medicine may harm 
the baby. You must use effective contraception during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose 
of Lytgobi.  
•  Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Lytgobi and for 1 week after the last dose. This is 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
because it is not known if Lytgobi can pass into breast milk and could therefore harm your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Lytgobi can cause side effects such as fatigue or visual disturbances. Do not drive or operate 
machinery if this happens. 
Lytgobi contains lactose and sodium 
This medicine contains lactose (found in milk or dairy products). If you have been told by your doctor 
that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
3. 
How to take Lytgobi 
Lytgobi treatment should be started by a doctor who is experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
bile duct cancer. Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check 
with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is 
5 tablets of Lytgobi 4 mg (20 mg futibatinib in total) taken orally once daily. Your doctor will adjust 
the dose or stop treatment if needed. 
Method of administration 
Swallow the tablet whole with one glass of water at the same time every day. Lytgobi may be taken 
with food or between meals. The tablets should be swallowed whole to ensure that the full dose is 
taken.  
Duration of treatment 
Take Lytgobi for as long as it is prescribed by the doctor. 
If you take more Lytgobi than you should 
Tell your doctor straight away if you have taken more Lytgobi than you should have. 
If you forget to take Lytgobi 
• 
• 
If you miss a dose of Lytgobi by 12 hours or less, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. 
If you miss a dose of Lytgobi by more than 12 hours, skip the missed dose. Take your next dose at 
the usual time. 
•  Do not take a double dose of Lytgobi if you experience vomiting. Take the next dose at your 
scheduled usual time. 
•  Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed dose. 
If you stop taking Lytgobi 
Do not stop taking Lytgobi without discussing it with your doctor, as stopping treatment could reduce 
the success of therapy. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you have any of the serious side effects below, tell your doctor immediately. These side effects 
listed below are common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people). 
•  Migraine 
• 
Intestinal obstruction 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other side effects  
Talk to your doctor if you get any other side effects. These may occur with the following frequencies: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
high or low phosphate levels seen in blood tests 
• 
low sodium levels seen in blood tests 
• 
nails separating from the nail bed, poor formation of the nail, change in colour of the nails 
• 
constipation 
• 
diarrhoea 
• 
dry mouth 
• 
vomiting 
• 
abdominal pain 
• 
hair loss (alopecia) 
• 
feeling tired or weak 
• 
dry skin 
• 
high levels of liver enzyme seen in blood tests 
• 
nausea 
• 
inflammation of the lining of the mouth (stomatitis) 
• 
decreased appetite 
• 
dry eye 
• 
redness, swelling, peeling or tenderness, mainly on the hands or feet (‘hand-foot’ syndrome) 
• 
change in sense of taste 
•  muscle pain 
• 
joint pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
•  Eye problems including inflammation of the eyes or cornea (front part of the eye), blurred vision, 
sudden appearance of small dark shapes moving in the field of vision (floaters) and flashes of 
light in the field of vision (photopsia).  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Lytgobi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Lytgobi contains  
•  The active substance is futibatinib.  
Each film-coated tablet contains 4 mg futibatinib.  
•  The other ingredient(s) are: 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tablet core: maize starch, crospovidone, hydroxypropylcellulose, lactose monohydrate, 
magnesium stearate, mannitol, cellulose microcrystalline and sodium lauril sulfate (see section 2, 
“Lytgobi contains lactose and sodium”)  
Film coating: hypromellose, macrogols, and titanium dioxide  
Lustering agent: magnesium stearate 
What Lytgobi looks like and contents of the pack 
Lytgobi 4 mg is supplied as round, white, film-coated tablets, debossed on one side with “4MG” and 
“FBN” on the other side. 
Lytgobi tablets are packaged in a blister card sealed inside a folding wallet containing a 7-day supply 
as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
20 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 35 tablets (5 tablets once daily).   
16 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 28 tablets(4 tablets once daily).   
12 mg daily dose: Each wallet contains 21 tablets (3 tablets once daily).    
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Taiho Pharma Netherlands B.V. 
Barbara Strozzilaan 201 
1083HN Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
PCI Pharma Services (Millmount Healthcare Limited) 
Block 7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath, K32 YD60 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} 
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’.  
This means that there is more evidence to come about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year 
and this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
