28 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/703852/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Lyxumia  
International non-proprietary name: lixisenatide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002445/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 6 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 14 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15 
2.3.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 17 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 17 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 21 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 25 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 27 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 29 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 29 
2.5.1. Dose response studies...................................................................................... 29 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................... 30 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 55 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 57 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 57 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 65 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 67 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 67 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................... 76 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................ 76 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 80 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADR 
AE 
ANCOVA 
ARAC 
AUC 
BID 
bpm 
CAC 
CHMP 
CI 
CL  
CLCR 
CLR 
Cmax 
CSR 
CV 
DPP 4 
ECG 
EMA 
FPG 
GBEF 
GCP 
GLP-1 
HbA1c 
HLGT 
HLT 
ICH 
LLOQ 
LOCF 
adverse drug reaction 
adverse event 
analysis of covariance 
allergic reaction assessment committee 
area under the concentration curve 
twice daily 
beats per minute 
Cardiovascular Events Adjudication Committee 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
confidence interval 
clearance 
creatinine clearance 
renal clearance 
maximum concentration 
clinical study report 
cardiovascular 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 
electrocardiogram 
European Medicines Agency 
fasting plasma glucose 
gall bladder ejection fraction 
Good Clinical Practice 
glucagon-like peptide 1 
glycosylated hemoglobin 
high level group term 
high level term 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
lower limit of quantification 
last observation carried forward 
LS mean 
least squares mean 
MAA 
MACE 
MAT 
MI 
mITT 
OC 
PD 
PK 
PNWT 
PPG 
PT 
QD 
SAE 
SU 
TEAE 
T2DM 
marketing authorization application 
major adverse cardiac events 
mean absorption time 
myocardial infarction 
modified intent-to-treat 
oral contraceptive 
pharmacodynamic(s) 
pharmacokinetic(s) 
predicted normal weight 
postprandial plasma glucose 
preferred term 
once daily 
serious adverse event 
sulfonylurea 
treatment emergent adverse event 
type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/81 
 
 
 
 
 
TZD 
thiazolidinedione 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant sanofi-aventis groupe submitted on 27 October 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Lyxumia, through the centralised procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 3 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 November 2010. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Lyxumia is indicated for treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic control 
in patients not adequately controlled on oral antidiabetics and/or basal insulin: 
 In combination with the following oral antidiabetics: 
- metformin, 
- a sulphonylurea, or 
- a combination of metformin and a  sulphonylurea, 
In combination with a basal insulin: 
- alone,  
- in combination with metformin, or 
- in combination with a sulphonylurea. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/225/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/225/2011 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance lixisenatide contained in the above medicinal product to 
be considered as a new active substance in itself. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 15 November 2007 (including clarifications 
on 18 January 2008) and on 24 June 2010. The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and 
clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Brüningstrasse 50, Industriepark Höchst 
65926 Frankfurt am Main 
Germany 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder  Co-Rapporteur: Walter Janssens 
CHMP Peer reviewers: Pieter de Graeff and Agnes Gyurasics 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 27 October 2011. 
The procedure started on 16 November 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 03 February 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 03 
February 2012.  
  During the meeting on 15 March 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 15 
March 2012. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 May 2012. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 June 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 19 July 2012, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 September 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 1 October 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 18 October 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 24 
October 2012. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/81 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 31 October 2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated an updated Assessment Report on 9 November 2012. 
  During the meeting on 15 November 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Lyxumia.  
 
The CHMP adopted via written procedure on 28 November 2012 the revised CHMP Opinion and 
Assessment Report to include further details in the assessment report. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Type 2 diabetes has a complex pathophysiology characterised by deficient insulin activity arising from 
decreased insulin secretion secondary to beta cell failure, compromised insulin action in peripheral 
target tissues (insulin resistance), or a combination of these abnormalities.   
The condition is a chronic widespread disease in the western world with an expected increased 
incidence worldwide. Type 2 diabetes accounts for approximately 90% of individuals with diabetes, has 
its onset usually in adulthood but is seen in growing numbers of children, and is typically associated 
with excess body weight and physical inactivity.  It is well known that patients with type 2 diabetes are 
at increased risk of macro- and microvascular complications including cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality. A major purpose of using antidiabetic agents is to reduce these risks.  
According to current guidelines for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, the treatment target should be 
HbA1c ≤7 %. Diet modification and exercise typically form the first line of treatment, but eventually 
most patients need at least two different antidiabetic compounds during the course of pharmacological 
intervention to reach treatment goals. The treatment algorithm published by the European Association 
for the Study of Diabetes and the American Diabetes Association from 2012 recommends metformin 
and life style changes as first line treatment. In the case of therapy failure (HbA1c above target after 3 
months), several treatment options are considered. Since all treatment alternatives are associated with 
different adverse event profiles and may not be tolerated by certain patients, it is of importance that 
clinicians have access to different options when treating patients with type 2 diabetes. 
About the product 
Lixisenatide is an activator of the receptor for Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). GLP-1 is an 
endogenous peptide of the incretin peptide family, with multifaceted effects on glycaemic control. As a 
class, GLP-1 and its analogs are known to stimulate insulin release from the pancreatic islets 
(insulinotropic release), suppress glucagon secretion, delay gastric emptying, and reduce body weight. 
The active, circulating form GLP 1 (7 36) amide has a very short half-life in circulation (90 to 
120 seconds) mainly because of rapid N terminal cleavage and inactivation by the common dipeptidyl 
peptidase 4 (DPP 4) enzyme.  To take advantage of the effects of GLP-1, two different approaches 
have been used to develop longer-acting therapies in humans: inhibition of the DPP 4 enzyme (DPP 4 
inhibitors) and the development of human GLP 1 analogues resistant to the action of DPP 4 enzyme 
(GLP 1 receptor agonists). 
Lixisenatide is a GLP 1 receptor agonist resistant to enzymatic cleavage by DPP 4. This results in a 
longer duration of action making it possible to use lixisenatide for therapeutic purposes. Lixisenatide is 
intended for use in the treatment of adults with T2DM in combination with oral antidiabetics and/or 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/81 
 
 
 
 
basal insulin, ie. as an add-on to monotherapy (metformin, a sulfonylurea, or a basal insulin) or dual 
therapy (metformin and a basal insulin; metformin and a sulfonylurea; or a sulfonylurea and a basal 
insulin). Other GLP-1 receptor agonists in use in the treatment of adults with T2DM are exenatide and 
liraglutide.  
Lixisenatide is administered once daily subcutaneously. The recommended maintenance dose is 20 
micrograms once daily; this is achieved after a 2-week starting regimen of lixisenatide 10 micrograms 
once daily.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The medicinal product is available as a sterile solution for injection with dosage strengths of 10 µg and 
20 µg to be administered subcutaneously. The active substance lixisenatide is a synthetic peptide. 
The full composition for excipients is detailed in section 6.1 of the SmPC. The solution for injection is 
filled into a 3 mL cartridge which is integrated in a pen-injector. The two strengths 10 μg  and 20 μg 
are differentiated by the colour of the pen (green and purple), features and label design. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Lixisenatide (INN) is a synthetic peptide containing 44 amino acids, which is amidated at the C-
terminal amino acid. The sequence of the amino acids has been provided. 
General properties such as physical characteristics (amorphous, hygroscopic, white to off-white 
powder), melting point, pH, IR, and UV analysis of the peptide (in accordance with the structure), 
solubility, stereochemistry (pure L-form) were presented. Polymorphism has not been observed. 
The information on the active substance has been provided according to the Active Substance Master 
File (ASMF) procedure. An authorisation letter and a complete ASMF were provided for this marketing 
authorisation application. In addition, a Qualified person declaration is also submitted confirming that 
Lixisenatide is manufactured in accordance with the European Guidelines ICH Q7. 
Manufacture 
The manufacturing process of lixisenatide drug substance is a standard solid phase peptide synthesis 
and consists of multiple synthetic steps, followed by purification and lyophilisation. A flow diagram and 
a comprehensive narrative description of the process have been presented. 
Further information on the manufacturing process and process controls is provided in the restricted 
part of the Active Substance Master File. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. Satisfactory specifications and control 
methods for starting materials, reagents and intermediates were presented.  
Details regarding specifications, analytical procedures, validation and batch results applied to 
intermediates and starting materials are found in the restricted part of the Active Substance Master 
File. 
The structure of lixisenatide was elucidated using the following methods: Mass spectrometry (MS), 
Peptide mapping, Amino acid analysis, Amino acid sequencing (Edman sequencing technique). In 
addition, lixisenatide was investigated by: Infra-red (FT-IR) absorption spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet-
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/81 
 
 
 
 
visible absorption (UV) spectrophotometry, X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), Circular dichroism (CD) 
spectroscopy and Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-spectroscopy. 
Furthermore, the functionality of lixisenatide, a GLP-1 receptor agonist, was determined using a cell-
based potency bioassay. The suitability of the bioassay method was investigated extensively and found 
suitable. The bioassay shows an adequate correlation with the HPLC results of the assay determination 
however the HPLC method is considered superior for routine testing. 
A comprehensive discussion is presented on impurities (including isomers, degradation products, 
genotoxic impurities, leachables and extractables, residual solvents) of lixisenatide determined by 
HPLC. The impurities were found below the qualification levels in line with ICH guidance and did not 
raise any toxicological concern. 
Specification 
The specification for lixisenatide included the following parameters: appearance of the active substance 
(visual), Identification (Amino acid sequencing by Edman method), mass identification (Ph.Eur.), Assay 
lixisenatide (HPLC), related substances (HPLC and HPLC-MS), High molecular weight proteins (HPSEC 
= high pressure size exclusion chromatography),  Chiral purity (AAA = amino-acid analysis- GC), 
residual trifluoroacetic acid TFA (HPLC), acetate content (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content 
(Karl-Fisher), microbial examination (Ph.Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur.). The specification was 
adequately justified including the absence of certain tests such as the cell-based bioassay in the 
routine controls.  
Analytical methods were well detailed and non-compendial analytical procedures as well as the 
procedures for Water and Bacterial endotoxins were validated to demonstrate their suitability for their 
intended purpose.  
Three production batches of lixisenatide drug as well as 19 development batches have been tested. 
The batch results are within the proposed specifications and show consistent quality attributes. 
Lixisenatide is packed into amber glass bottles with airtight closing screw caps. Due to its sensitivity to 
light, lixisenatide has to be protected from light. The materials comply with the Ph. Eur. monograph on 
glass containers for pharmaceutical use (Ph. Eur. 3.2.1), and Commission Directive 2002/72/EC, 
relating to plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. The packaging is 
suitable for its intended use.  
Stability 
Stability studies were conducted on three pilot-scale batches of lixisenatide packed in the commercial 
container closure system under ICH long term (18 months at -20°C±5°C), accelerated conditions (6 
months at +5°C±3°C) and stress conditions (1 month at  +25°C±2°C/60%±5% RH) according to ICH 
Q1A(R2).  
The analytical procedures are the same as those used for the control of the drug substance. 
Photostability studies were performed in line with ICH Q1B (Sun-Test-ICH option 1).  
Bottles were stored inverted, in order to enable product interaction with the liner during storage. 
The stability batches of lixisenatide were tested on appearance (visual), assay lixisenatide (HPLC), 
related impurities 1 (HPLC), high molecular weight proteins (HPSEC), and water content (Karl Fischer). 
The HPLC method was a stability-indicating method for the related impurities. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/81 
 
 
 
 
Under long-term and accelerated conditions,no significant change could be observed in the tested 
parameters and Only a slight increase of impurities was noticed under accelerated conditions. During 
the stress studies, an increase of impurities was observed but the other parameters did not show any 
relevant changes.  
The photostability studies showed that lixisenatide is photosensitive when exposed to intense light.  
Long term data and accelerated data for all attributes show little or no change over 18 months. The 
stability results indicate that lixisenatide manufactured by the proposed supplier is stable and justify 
the proposed re-test period in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim was to obtain a medicinal product containing lixisenatide taking into account the physico-
chemical properties of the active substance and its compatibility with the excipients. 
The pharmaceutical development of the finished product contains Quality by Design (QbD) element. 
During development it was decided to commercialize a 10 µg and 20 µg solution for injection taking 
the desired quality target product profile (QTPP) into account. This QTPP considers the required dosage 
form (ready to use solution for injection), dosage strength (10 µg and 20 µg), administration 
(subcutaneous, multiple), biocompatibility (acceptable local tolerability), efficacy and safety 
(throughout shelf life) and pharmacopoeial conformance. The critical quality attributes (CQA) were 
determined to be identity, assay, appearance, impurities, osmolarity, pH and microbial integrity. The 
potential impact of formulation components on the CQA has been evaluated throughout development 
and is depicted in a risk matrix presented in the dossier.  The choice of the excipients for the final 
formulation followed a risk assessment approach in order to achieve the best formulation (i.e optimal 
stability, local tolerability, antimicrobial preservative effectiveness, viscosity to allow good 
syringeability). The suitability of all the parameters was demonstrated in the pre-formulation and 
stability studies. 
The excipients were selected based on their compatibility with the active substance, their technical 
performance in the manufacturing process, the local tolerance of the drug product, their availability in 
pharmacopoeial grade and their suitability for parenteral use. 
Glycerol is used as a tonicity agent. Methionine is used as a stabilizing agent for chemical stability of 
the drug product. Sodium acetate trihydrate is used as a buffer agent to ensure a pH of 4.5 together 
with hydrochloric acid as acidifying and sodium hydroxide as alkalizing agents. Metacresol is added as 
preservative to prevent growth of microorganisms as required by pharmacopoeias for multidose 
containers. Water for injections is used as a solvent and nitrogen as a process aid for filtration. 
Pre-formulation investigations and drug product stability studies show that the chosen excipients are 
compatible with the active substance. 
Since lixisenatide is a peptide, the molecule is rapidly degraded after oral administration by the 
digestive system and, therefore, has to be administered parenterally. 
The composition of the drug product formulation was based on the possibility of having multiple doses, 
physical, chemical and microbiological stability of the drug product, and physiological compatibility 
upon administration. 
For early clinical studies a lyophilizate (powder for solution for injection) had been developed. 
Advancing in development, a solution for injection has been developed. For phase 3 clinical 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/81 
 
 
 
 
development, the formulation containing 20 µg solution for injection was used. The different doses 
were provided by varying the administered volume. To simplify the handling by patients, a fixed dose 
pen-injector was developed for the commercial drug product 
The detailed compositions of the batches used in toxicological and clinical studies are provided in the 
dossier. The proposed formulations for commercialisation have been used in clinical studies and these 
clinical batches were manufactured according to the proposed manufacturing process.  
No assay overages are applied but overfilling is applied so that each cartridge is completely filled (no 
headspace). The correct administration of the labelled volume (3.0 mL) by multiple doses is ensured 
with the disposable pen-injector. 
Since the active substance is heat sensitive the manufacturing process is based on aseptic technique.  
Extensive and sufficient information on the manufacturing process development has been provided in 
particular regarding the standard aseptic processing techniques, the excipients, the container and the 
sterilizing filtration.  
No major changes of the manufacturing process occurred during scale-up and transfer of the process 
to the manufacturing plant. 
The theoretical impact of process steps on critical quality attributes (CQA) was assessed based on prior 
scientific experience. It was demonstrated that pH adjustment, aseptic processing and sterile filtration 
were critical aspects of the manufacturing process. 
Lixisenatide solution for injection is supplied in multidose containers. A disposable pen-injector was 
chosen to enable repeated dispensing of fixed doses according to the therapeutic requirements of the 
patient. The 3 ml cartridges are made of colourless type I glass (Ph. Eur.) to allow visual inspection of 
the content. The closures of the multidose containers are commonly used and provide good physical 
integrity and re-sealability properties. The packaging materials selected meet the requirements of the 
Ph. Eur. The suitability of the packaging was substantiated by the results of the stability studies. The 
pen-injector performance was demonstrated and complied with the corresponding ISO standards on 
pen-injectors. To confirm the suitability of the pen-injector, in-use stability studies as well as an 
extractable/leachable study were conducted.  Results showed that the pen-injector should be kept at 
room temperature and that the impurities level exposure to impurities did not reach any toxicological 
concern at the administered dose in accordance with the ICH guideline to ICH Q3C 
EMEA/CHMP/QWP/251344/2006. 
Testing for efficacy of antimicrobial preservation is performed in accordance with the Ph. Eur. 
monograph 5.1.3. All results met the A criteria for parenteral preparations. The preservative efficacy at 
the lower shelf life limit is guaranteed.     
Compatibility testing with other products has not been performed, since mixing with other products is 
not allowed and there is no direct contact between lixisenatide solution for injection and the pen-
injector. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used for the manufacture of the drug product. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process comprises compounding, pH adjustment, pre-filtration, sterile filtration, 
aseptic filling and packaging. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/81 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process has been validated as follow: a bracketing design was chosen for the 
validation. This approach is based on the original plan to submit three dosage strengths (5 µg, 7.5 µg 
and 10 µg). It also covers the batch size range and the two manufacturing process variants. It includes 
5 batches (pilot and commercial scale). The bracketing validation approach was accepted previously 
through EU scientific advice procedure. The present submission includes sufficient validation batches 
demonstrating that a robust process is in place. All the batches tested for the process validation were 
found compliant with drug product release specifications, demonstrating the physical, chemical and 
microbial integrity of the product during manufacture. Thus, the consistency of the filling procedure 
into cartridges was demonstrated. 
All the excipients used in the formulation and preparation of lixisenatide solution for injection are 
described in the Ph. Eur. and tested according to their respective monograph. The excipients glycerol 
85%, sodium acetate trihydrate, methionine, metacresol are additionally tested for bacterial 
endotoxins and microbiological quality. Container closure integrity has been demonstrated. 
No novel excipients are used to manufacture the drug product 
Product specification 
Release and shelf-life specifications for Lixisenatide 10 µg and 20 µg solution for injection include the 
following tests: appearance (visual), appearance clarity and colour (Ph.Eur.), identification (HPLC), 
identification (HPSEC), identification of metacresol (HPLC), assay of lixisenatide (HPLC), related 
substances (HPLC), High molecular weight proteins (HPSEC), pH (potentiometry Ph.Eur.), sterility 
(Ph.Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur.), particulate matter (visible particle, Ph.Eur.), particulate 
matter (subvisible particles, Ph.Eur.), antimicrobial preservative content (HPLC), extractable volume 
(Ph.Eur.), identification of pen-injector (visual), functional test of pen-injector (gravimetry), dose 
accuracy according to ISO standard 11608-1 (gravimetry). 
Analytical methods have been suitably described and all non-compendial analytical procedures, such as 
HPLC and HPSEC as well as the analytical procedures for sterility and bacterial endotoxins were 
validated to demonstrate that they are suitable for their intended purpose. The pen-related analytical 
procedures were adequately described under Section 3.2.P.7 “Container closure system”. 
Batch analysis data are provided for 10 production batches and 6 pilot batches for the 20 µg strength 
and 4 production batches and 2 pilot batches for the 10 µg strength. The results presented are within 
the proposed specification. 
Container Closure system  
The drug product is filled in a 3 ml colourless glass type I cartridge closed with an aluminium flanged 
cap with inserted laminated sealing disk (isoprene rubber on external side and bromobutyl rubber on 
product side) and a bromobutyl rubber plunger stopper. A brief description of the packaging 
components is given together with their specifications and batch analysis. The glass cartridges and 
bromobutyl rubber components comply with the relevant requirements of Ph. Eur. 3.2.1 ’Glass 
containers for Pharmaceutical Use’ and Ph. Eur. 3.2.9 ‘Rubber Closures for Containers for Aqueous 
Parenteral Preparations, for Powders and for freeze-dried Powders. 
The glass cartridges are assembled into disposable pen-injectors. A pen-injector is available for each 
dosage strength (green for 10 µg and purple for 20 µg per 0.2 mL volume administered). The strength 
of administered dose depends on the concentration of the solution in the cartridge. Apart from color 
and tactile features, the geometry and function of each pen version is identical and consists of cap, 
cartridge holder, cartridge (containing lixisenatide solution for injection), body, mechanism and button. 
None of these components are in direct contact with the drug product.  Materials used for the pen-
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/81 
 
 
 
 
injector are listed in the dossier together with conformity regulations. Specifications are presented for 
the assembled pen-injector. These include tests for identification (visual), appearance, functional test 
and dose accuracy according to ISO 11608-1. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been performed on three production-scale and 2 pilot-scale batches for the 10 µg 
strength and on three production-scale batches for the 20 µg strength. The  samples were kept in the 
cartridges and in the assembled pen-injector and were stored under ICH long-term conditions (24 
months at 5°C±3°C), accelerated conditions (6 months at 25°C±2°C/60%±5% RH) and stress 
conditions (1 month at +40°C±2°C/75%±5% RH). Cartridges were always stored horizontally to 
evaluate compatibility with the closures. 
The parameters tested during Appearance (visual), Appearance (clarity and color) (Ph. Eur.), Assay 
lixisenatide (HPLC), Related impurities/ degradation products (HPLC), High molecular weight proteins 
(HPSEC), pH (Ph. Eur.), Particulate matter (subvisible particles) (Ph. Eur.), Antimicrobial preservative 
content (m-cresol) (HPLC), Integrity of container / closure system, Preservative efficacy (Ph. Eur./USP.  
The analytical procedures are stability-indicating and are the same as those used for the control of the 
finished product apart from an additional HPLC method used for degradation products (described and 
validated).  
No significant change was observed under long-term conditions, and all the parameters including 
preservative efficacy and container closure integrity remained within the specification.  
Under accelerated, light exposure and stress conditions, the assay content decreased and the 
impurities increased but no significant changes are observed in the other parameters tested. Container 
closure integrity is confirmed after six months storage.  The results were within the accepted limits.  
In addition in-use stability studies, temperature cycling studies and photostability studies under ICH 
conditions were carried out on 1 batch of each strength. 
In-use stability studies in line with the ICH guideline Q1E were performed on one batch of each 
strength (initially, after 12 months and after 24 months) and trying to mimic the conditions of use. 
During the 14-day in-use period, these samples are stored at 30°C±2°C/65%RH±5%RH and tested for 
appearance, lixisenatide assay, related impurities, high molecular weight proteins, pH, particulate 
matter and antimicrobial preservative content. The results were found satisfactory.  
The photostability study was performed in accordance with ICH.   
The results show significant degradation when the drug product is exposed to intense light. 
For the cycling studies the cartridges were subjected to a storage cycle of 4 days at 
25°C±2°C/60%±5%RH and 3 days at 5°C±3°C. The cartridges are analysed after four repetitive 
cycles (28 days). Testing is performed for appearance, lixisenatide assay, related impurities, high 
molecular weight proteins and metacresol assay. 
Stability results indicate that temperature cycling does not impact the quality of the drug product. 
Stability results confirm the proposed shelf-life (normal and in-use) and the storage conditions as 
described in the SmPC are acceptable.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/81 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Quality Development 
Information and development, manufacture and control of lixisenatide- a synthetic peptide containing 
44 amino acids and the finished product Lyxumia presented in a pen-injector has been presented in a 
satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important 
product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product Lyxumia is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been provided to show there is no viral/TSE safety risk. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
Not applicable 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Pivotal safety studies were performed in accordance with GLP, except for one cardiovascular study in 
rats and the hERG assay, which was not considered to be of concern to CHMP. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Lixisenatide binding to the GLP-1 receptor was studied by displacement of  [125I]GLP-1(7-36) amide 
binding to CHO-1 cells transfected with the human GLP-1 receptor. Lixisenatide had a binding affinity 
~4 times greater than native human GLP-1 to GLP-1 receptor (IC50 = 1.43 nmol/l, Ki = 1.33 nmol/l). 
Lixisenatide showed no relevant activity on a panel of 91 different receptors and ion channels. 
In the perfused pancreas isolated from normoglycemic Wistar rats, it was demonstrated that neither 
native GLP-1 nor lixisenatide induced insulin secretion at physiologic glucose concentrations  (5.6 
mmol/L). In contrast, when the ambient glucose concentration was increased to hyperglycemic levels 
(16.5 mmol/L), both lixisenatide and GLP-1 significantly increased pancreatic glucose-stimulated 
insulin secretion. 
Lixisenatide dose-dependently improved oral glucose tolerance in diabetic db/db mice, diabetic ZDF 
rats and dogs following a single dose administration of lixisenatide. 
In mouse and rat diabetes models, chronic treatment with lixisenatide reduced the progressive 
increase in basal blood glucose and HbA1c seen in control animals. In mice and dogs, lixisenatide was 
shown to inhibit gastric emptying and subsequent glucose absorption. In mouse and rat models of 
diabetes, lixisenatide showed a trend towards enhancement of insulin biosynthesis and β-cell 
proliferation. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
In isolated Langendorff-perfused rat hearts with regional ischemia and reperfusion, lixisenatide 
reduced the development of myocardial infarction. In male ApoE knockout mice (B.129P2-apoe 
tm1Unc/J) treated by continuous subcutaneous infusion for 16 weeks, lixisenatide reduced 
atherosclerotic plaque formation by ~30% compared to placebo. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Effects on CNS were studied in general behavior (Irwin) studies in rats and mice. In rats 10 
micrograms/kg intravenous (IV) resulted in reversible and slight decrease in locomotor activity and 
body tone. In mice no effects were observed at SC doses up to 2 mg/kg. A slight dose-dependent block 
of hERG currents was seen with a maximum inhibition of 37.3% at the highest concentration tested 
(30 micrograms/ml). There were no changes in resting membrane potential or action potential 
parameters of rabbit Purkinje fibers up to concentrations of 0.37 micrograms/ml. Cardiovascular 
studies in vivo were conducted in conscious rats and anaesthetised dogs. A limited increase in mean 
arterial blood pressure was observed in the rat (≥50 micrograms/kg IV), but not in the dog (high dose 
10 micrograms/kg IV). Lixisenatide had no relevant effects on the respiratory system in anaesthetised 
dogs. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Nonclinical PK studies of lixisenatide were performed in 2 strains of mice, in rats, two strains of rabbits, 
dogs, and pigs using intravenous (IV), subcutaneous (SC), or intraperitoneal (IP) administration. In 
almost all of these studies, high doses of lixisenatide were used in order to achieve plasma 
concentrations in the low nanomolar range that could be detected by the analytical method available at 
that time, liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, which is less sensitive than the immunoassay 
used in TK studies later on. Thus, the PK understanding is mainly based on supra-therapeutic exposure 
levels. 
In all species, lixisenatide was rapidly absorbed following SC or IP administration with maximum 
plasma concentrations (Cmax) occurring between 0.25 and 3.75 h after dosing. After SC dosing, the 
absolute bioavailability was: dogs (~90%), pigs (~70%), db/db mice (36 to 50%), rabbits (>30%), 
and rats (~3%). The terminal half-lives of lixisenatide ranged between 0.5 and 6.5 h after IV 
administration in different animal species (mouse, rat, rabbit, dog, and pig). 
Lixisenatide was intensively metabolised after 1 h incubation in S9 liver and kidney fractions from 
humans, dogs, and rabbits. In human S9 fractions, 28 metabolites were detected; all of them were 
degraded peptide products of lixisenatide. 
A sensitive, specific method for lixisenatide (ELISA) revealed no sign of lixisenatide in brain (except the 
part expected from the amount of plasma in brain), a very low placental transfer (0.1% in rat and < 
0.01% to 0.3% in rabbit) and a very low amount of lixisenatide in milk. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
In rat and mouse exploratory studies (limit dose testing) single doses of aqueous solutions of 
lixisenatide up to 500 micrograms/kg IV and SC in mice and 5000 micrograms/kg IV and SC in rats 
resulted only in transient clinical findings such as lethargy, piloerection and decreased activity. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/81 
 
 
 
 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeat dose toxicity studies were performed in mice, rats and dogs with durations up to 6 months in 
rats and 12 months in dogs. There were no important toxicological findings reported in mice or rats. 
However, in the chronic rat study testicular and epididymal effects appeared to occur in the high dose 
group with cases of atrophy, spermatid stasis and mineralisation in the testis and oligospermia and 
aspermia in the epididymis. In dogs, reversible testicular and epididymal toxicities were observed. The 
applicant proposes that these effects could be due to GLP-1 receptor mediated effects on fluid 
resorption in the epididymis. Receptor expression analysis in testes and epididymis of rats, dogs and 
humans revealed that GLP-1R is expressed at least 3.3-fold higher in dogs compared to humans and at 
least 100-fold compared to rats. These results indicate that dogs may be more susceptible for 
testicular and epididymal GLP1-R activation and corresponding effects by lixisenatide than rats and, to 
a lesser extent, also more susceptible than humans. 
Genotoxicity 
Lixisenatide was negative in a standard battery of genotoxicity tests (Ames test, human lymphocyte 
chromosome aberration test, mouse bone marrow micronucleus test). 
Carcinogenicity 
Two-year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats were performed with dose levels of 40, 200 and 
1000 µg/kg BID. In agreement with other GLP-1 receptor agonists, lixisenatide showed proliferative 
effects on thyroid C-cells in both species. The applicant has performed a number of mechanistic studies 
showing higher expression of GLP-1 receptor in thyroid tissue from rats compared to human tissue, 
functional activity in a rat C cell line but not in a human C cell line and GLP-1 receptor mediated 
calcitonin release in mice. 
A statistically significant trend for increase in adenocarcinoma in the endometrium was found in 
lixisenatide-treated CD-1 mice as compared to control mice. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
There were no adverse effects on fertility or early embryonic development in the rat at any dose 
tested. 
Embryofetal development toxicity was studied in rats and rabbits. In the rat, there was one fetus with 
microphthalmia (LD), one fetus with anophthalmia (MD), one fetus with diaphragma hernia (MD) and 
three fetuses with multiple skeletal malformations (1LD, 1MD, 1HD). In addition there was a dose-
dependent retardation of fetal growth and ossification. In rabbits there were five cases of multiple 
malformations (2LD, 2MD and 1HD). There was also a cardiac ventricular septum defect (HD), and lack 
of gall bladder (1MD, 2HD). Also in rabbits, there were other findings of skeletal anomalies and 
retarded ossification. In a second rabbit study with lower doses, multiple skeletal and visceral 
malformations were seen in one markedly retarded control group fetus. In rats no NOAEL was defined. 
In rabbits, the second study gave a NOAEL of 2.5 micrograms/kg BID with an AUC of 41.5 ng*h/mL 
(exposure margin 5.7x) 
Pre- and postnatal development toxicity was studied in rats. There was maternal toxicity at all doses 
with decreased motor activity, piloeretion, decreased body weight and food consumption. There was  
increased pup mortality at the high dose and lower body weight gain at ≥20 micrograms/kg twice 
daily. There were two cases of multiple skeletal malformations in animals found death at birth. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/81 
 
 
 
 
Other toxicity studies 
An 8-month toxicity study was performed in male juvenile dogs. There were adverse microscopic 
findings in testis and epididymis  at all doses. Testicular and epididymal findings were absent after the 
recovery period of 2 months. The findings on testicular and epididymal toxicity are similar to those 
seen in the repeat dose toxicity study in adult dogs. 
There was a dose- and time-dependent development of antidrug antibodies following SC administration 
of lixisenatide to mice, rats and dogs in studies up to 12 months in duration. There were no signs of 
immune-mediated pathology. While the antibodies did not appear to block the pharmacodynamic 
effect, the pharmacokinetics was affected with higher exposures. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No environmental risk assessment has been performed since according to the ERA guideline: 
“Vitamins, electrolytes, amino acids, peptides, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids are exempted 
because they are unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment.” This view is endorsed by 
CHMP. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The primary pharmacodynamics of lixisenatide were found to be consistent with what has been shown 
with other members of the class. 
Safety pharmacology studies did not raise any concerns. 
Repeat dose toxicity studies were adequately performed, and substantial exposure margins to clinical 
exposure were achieved. The only finding of importance was reversible testicular and epididymal 
toxicities in the dogs. While not considered as a toxicological finding in the study report, in the high 
dose animals in the chronic rat study there was an increased number of animals with similar 
testicularand epididymal changes. Similar effects were also seen in a juvenile toxicity study in dogs 
with no NOAEL. The applicant proposed that these effects could be due to GLP-1 receptor-mediated 
effects on fluid resorption in the epididymis. Receptor expression analysis in testes and epididymis of 
rats, dogs and humans revealed that the GLP-1 receptor is expressed at least 3.3-fold higher in dogs 
compared to humans and at least 100-fold higher compared to rats. These results indicate that dogs 
may be more susceptible for testicular and epididymal GLP1 receptor activation and corresponding 
effects by lixisenatide than rats and, to a lesser extent, also more susceptible than humans. A clinical 
study has been performed which did not show any adverse effects on sperm parameters. 
As with other GLP-1 receptor agonists, lixisenatide showed proliferative effects on thyroid C-cells in 
mice and rats. Data from the applicant give further support for the hypothesis that the C-cell effects 
are related to activation of GLP-1 receptor on thyroid C-cells and that there is a species-specific 
difference in sensitivity to this effect. However, this difference may be only quantitative and it cannot 
be excluded that the effect could have clinical relevance in an individual with a certain genetic 
predisposition. The conclusion from the assessments  of other GLP-1 receptor agonists is therefore 
equally applicable for lixisenatide and the proposed text in section 5.3 of the SmPC was therefore 
endorsed by CHMP stating that findings in rodents are caused by a non-genotoxic, specific GLP-1 
receptor-mediated mechanism to which rodents are particularly sensitive. 
A statistically significant trend for increase in adenocarcinoma of the endometrium was found in 
lixisenatide-treated CD-1 mice as compared to control mice. The endometrial findings observed during 
the mouse carcinogenicity study are mentioned under section 5.3 of the SmPC. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/81 
 
 
 
 
Embryofoetal toxicity was studied in rats and rabbits (two studies). Malformations were observed both 
in the rat study and the first rabbit study, with no NOAEL. Also, in a rat study on pre- and postnatal 
toxicity, there were pups with skeletal malformations.  
The applicant raised two main arguments to consider these malformations as not being related to 
treatment: The occurrence in historical controls (or in the case of multiple malformations in rabbits in 
one single foetus in the second rabbit study) and the lack of a dose response relationship. The 
reference to a historical database can have relevance in evaluating rare findings but in this case with 
multiple malformed foetuses the finding of a single or a few cases in a data base of several thousand 
foetuses was considered by CHMP as not sufficient in order to regard the findings as incidental. 
Concerning the absence of a dose-response relationship it is relevant that lixisenatide is a peptide and 
adverse events would be expected to be a pharmacological effect, the dose-response curve of which is 
not easily predictable. It may well be that once there is a pharmacological effect, a further increase in 
exposure may not increase the risk and therefore the absence of a dose response relationship was also 
considered as not sufficient to reassure CHMP that these malformations would not being related to 
treatment with lixisenatide. It is agreed that maternal effects on body weight and food consumption 
can result in foetal effects, mainly related to growth retardation, and this has also been shown for 
other members of the class, but without evidence for an increased rate of malformations. Given that 
such dramatic effects on body weight and food consumption are not observed clinically, the relevance 
for humans would be minimal. However, the malformations observed in the developmental toxicity 
studies with lixisenatide were not completely explained by these maternal effects. The applicant has 
not been able to demonstrate that these malformations are without doubt unrelated to treatment. 
Therefore, appropriate recommendations have been included in SmPC section 4.6, stating that 
Lyxumia should not be used during pregnancy and it is not recommended in women of child-bearing 
potential not using contraception.  Furthermore, the findings in the developmental toxicity studies are 
described in SmPC section 5.3. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical data reveal no special concerns based on the studies of safety pharmacology and 
toxicology.   
As with other GLP-1 receptor agonists, lixisenatide showed proliferative effects on thyroid C-cells in 
mice and rats. The clinical relevance of the thyroid C cell tumours in rats cannot be excluded. In the 
clinical development program there is no indication of trends in the incidences of thyroid neoplasms. 
This will be followed in post-authorisation studies.  
In the developmental toxicity studies there were a number of malformations and a relation to 
treatment cannot be excluded, and therefore, as a precaution, lixisenatide is not recommended in 
women of child bearing potential not using contraception. 
There are no non-clinical objections to the approval of Lyxumia. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The assessment of the efficacy and safety of lixisenatide was based on a clinical program, comprising 
41 completed or ongoing clinical studies, including 24 Phase 1 studies, 4 Phase 2 studies, and 
13 Phase 3 studies. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/81 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed indication is based on the results of 6 randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 
3 studies and 1 randomised open-label, active-controlled phase 3 study versus exenatide. 
The analysis of safety is based on data from 26 of the completed studies, in which 3708 people 
received at least 1 dose of lixisenatide, including 3343 patients with T2DM and 365 healthy subjects. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/81 
 
 
 
 
Table 1   Overview of the lixisenatide clinical development program (at primary data cut-off 
date) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a Ongoing studies at the primary cut-off date (30 April 2011). 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Lixisenatide is a new active substance, and pharmacokinetic studies should thus aim at describing the 
disposition of the substance, support the chosen dosage regimen and, based on the pharmacokinetic 
properties of the substance, identify sub-groups of patients in which exposure might be altered, and 
potential interactions with other medical products. Pharmacokinetic data on lixisenatide was available 
from 23 studies (17 Phase 1, 4 Phase 2, and 2 Phase 3 studies). Of the phase 1 studies, two evaluated 
biopharmaceutical issues, three intrinsic factors and six interactions. Moreover, eight human 
biomaterial studies investigating protein binding, metabolic stability of lixisenatide in S9 liver and 
kidney fractions and identification of metabolites, the potential for lixisenatide to induce cytochrome 
P450 (CYP) isozyme activity in human hepatocytes or inhibit CYP isozyme activity in human liver 
microsomes, and the potential for lixisenatide to inhibit human OCT2 (kidney) and OATP1B1 (liver) 
uptake transporters were submitted. Population PK modelling was conducted including data from two 
phase 1, two phase 2 studies and two phase 3 studies. Based on exposure measures from the 
population PK model, population exposure-response models were developed for plasma glucose. In 
clinical pharmacology studies, single doses from 5 to 20 micrograms and multiple doses from 20 
micrograms once daily to 30 micrograms twice daily, for up to 28 days, were evaluated in healthy 
subjects. Multiple doses from 5 micrograms once daily to 30 micrograms twice daily were evaluated in 
subjects with T2DM. Lixisenatide concentration in plasma was determined with a validated enzyme-
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using a double-antibody sandwich technique measuring total 
lixisenatide (i.e., unbound and bound to anti-drug antibodies) concentrations. Pharmacokinetic 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/81 
 
 
 
 
 
parameters in clinical pharmacology studies were calculated by non-compartmental methods. 
Nonlinear mixed effects modelling was used to evaluate PK/PD and population PK.  
Lixisenatide PK is greatly influenced by presence of anti-lixisenatide antibodies. The pharmacokinetics 
was mainly evaluated in subjects and patients without anti-lixisenatide antibodies. 
Absorption  
After subcutaneous administration, lixisenatide maximum plasma concentrations are reached within 
about 1.5 to 2.5 hours. The absolute bioavailability of lixisenatide has not been determined. Extent of 
absorption is independent of injection site, while rate of absorption is somewhat slower after 
administration in the thigh than in the arm or abdomen resulting in a slightly delayed tmax (change in 
median from 2 to 2.5 hours), and somewhat lower Cmax (mean ratio 0.86).  
The 50 micrograms/ml strength is to be used for administration of the 10 microgram starting dose and 
the 100 microgram/ml strength for the 20 microgram maintenance dose. The applicant performed a 
bioequivalence study to compare the rate and extent of absorption of the 50 microgram/ml and 100 
microgram/ml lixisenatide solutions as the 100 microgram/ml strength was used in Phase 3 also for 
administration of the 10 microgram dose. Bioequivalence for AUC∞ and Cmax was demonstrated, while 
the 90% CI of the AUClast ratio was 0.78-0.89.  
Distribution 
The binding of lixisenatide to human plasma protein was approximately 55%. Lixisenatide has not been 
administered intravenously. Hence, volume of distribution is not determined. Apparent volume of 
distribution (Vz/F) was reported to be around 100 l. 
Elimination 
The apparent clearance (CL/F) is about 30-40 l/h and the terminal half-life around 3 h. The population 
analysis indicated that lixisenatide has absorption-limited elimination as the population mean 
absorption time (MAT) of 2.7 hours was longer than the population mean elimination time (V/CL) of 
1.15 hours.  
Mass balance or excretion has not been evaluated. This is acceptable as lixisenatide is a polypeptide. 
Being a polypeptide the elimination is expected to follow that of endogenous peptides with renal 
filtration followed by tubular reabsorption and subsequent metabolic catabolism. Investigations of non-
CYP450 metabolism in renal and hepatic S9 fractions in the absence of NADPH metabolism revealed a 
large number of metabolites, all being degraded peptide products of lixisenatide. The potential to 
stimulate the GLP-1 receptor was evaluated for four of the metabolites, and none of the investigated 
metabolites showed any activity. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Lixisenatide displays roughly dose proportional increase in exposure in the dose range 5 to 30 
micrograms. Lixisenatide seems to display time independent pharmacokinetics and has no 
accumulation in subjects with no anti-lixisenatide antibodies. 
The inter-individual variability for the PK parameters in antibody-negative subjects was generally 
moderate (CV was for the most part approximately 30% to 60%). The within-subject variation was 
estimated to be 27% for AUC0-∞ and 22% for Cmax. In antibody-positive patients the variability in 
exposure of total lixisenatide is markedly increased. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/81 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
PK data in special populations have been obtained in three specific studies (renal impairment, elderly, 
Chinese subjects). In addition, PK data in Japanese subjects were obtained in type 2 diabetes mellitus 
patients.  The influence of different demographic factors was also evaluated in the population 
pharmacokinetic analysis. Between-study comparison suggests similar lixisenatide exposure in T2DM 
patients and healthy volunteers. 
In both healthy volunteers and patients lixisenatide AUC and Cmax are markedly increased, tmax 
delayed and half-life prolonged in anti-lixisenatide antibody positive patients. This is accompanied by a 
large increase in inter-individual variability. Due to the design of studies it is difficult to distinguish 
between the effect of dose level and treatment duration. However, the data suggests that antibodies 
have a large effect on lixisenatide exposure regardless of dose level. In pre-dose samples collected in 
phase 3 studies, active lixisenatide concentration was measured by bioassay.  The active fraction was 
considerably lower, 22 compared to 72%, however the active concentration was on average only 
slightly lower (109 vs 123 pg/ml) in antibody positive than in antibody negative patients. The 
variability in both active and total concentration and active fraction was very large. There was no 
correlation between active concentration of lixisenatide and concentration of anti-lixisenatide 
antibodies and active lixisenatide concentration is similar in different anti-lixisenatide antibody 
concentration groups and the antibody negative group. Further, there seems to be no correlation 
between total concentration of lixisenatide and concentration of anti-lixisenatide antibodies. Total 
lixisenatide concentration was higher in groups with low to median antibody concentration than in the 
group with the highest antibody concentration. 
Given the large influence of anti-lixisenatide antibodies on lixisenatide PK, the pharmacokinetics in 
special populations were evaluated in subjects and patients without anti-lixisenatide antibodies. Hence, 
there is no information on potential difference in the influence of intrinsic factors on lixisenatide PK 
between patients with and without anti-lixisenatide antibodies. 
In the initial population PK analysis of phase 1 and 2 data renal function (creatinine clearance) was 
included as a covariate for renal clearance, body weight for non-renal clearance and V/F and injection 
in the thigh and Asian race as covariates for relative bioavailability. The predicted effects of body 
weight, injection in the thigh and Asian race were modest (about 20% higher AUC in a patient 
weighing 35 kg than one weighing 70 kg, 14% increased bioavailability after administration in the 
thigh and 32% increased bioavailability in Asian race). Age and gender were not identified as 
significant covariates affecting lixisenatide clearance. In a revised population PK analysis also including 
phase 3 data and using another structural model creatinine clearance and dose were found to be 
significant covariates of CL/F, body weight significant covariate of V/F, and dose significant covariate of 
MAT. 
The influence of renal impairment on lixisenatide pharmacokinetics was evaluated in 32 subjects after 
administration of a single 5 microgram dose to subjects with normal renal function (creatinine 
clearance >80 ml/min), mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50-80 ml/min), moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance 30-<50 ml/min) and severe renal impairment but not requiring 
heamodialysis (creatinine clearance 17-30 ml/min). Renal function was determined based to creatinine 
clearance calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula determined at screening. Subjects with normal 
renal function were matched for age, BMI, and gender to the renally impaired groups. Lixisenatide 
exposure is increased in subjects with reduced renal function. Mild renal impairment did not affect the 
pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide and moderate renal impairment had no effect on Cmax and only a 
small effect on AUC, about 24% increase. Given the signal of a slight increase in adverse events in 
mild renal impairment and very limited clinical experience in moderate renal impairment, the SmPC 
recommends use with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment. In severe renal impairment 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 23/81 
 
 
 
 
Cmax was increased by 29% and AUC by 46%. There is no therapeutic experience in patients with 
severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease and 
therefore, it is not recommended to use lixisenatide in these populations in the SmPC. 
The influence of hepatic impairment on lixisenatide pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated. No dose 
adjustment is needed in patients with hepatic impairment as hepatic dysfunction is not expected to 
affect the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide. 
Female subjects had in general higher exposure than male subjects. The difference in exposure seems 
at least partly to be due to differences in weight as AUC was comparable in male and female Chinese 
subjects with similar weight.   
The effect of age on lixisenatide pharmacokinetics was evaluated after administration of a single 20-
microgram dose in 18 healthy elderly (65-79 years, mean age 72 years) and 18 young (24-44 years, 
mean age 33 years) subjects matched for body weight and gender. Cmax and tmax were comparable 
in both study populations. AUC was increased by 29% and half life prolonged by 57% in the elderly. No 
dose adjustment is required based on age. The SmPC reflects that clinical experience in patients ≥75 
years is limited. 
Data from clinical pharmacology studies suggest that there is no clinically relevant difference in 
exposure between Japanese and Caucasian subjects and that Chinese subjects seem to have an 
exposure in a similar range.  
No PK data in children have been provided. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The potential for lixisenatide to inhibit the CYP isoenzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, and the transport proteins OCT2 and OATP1B1 and to induce CYP1A, 
CYP2B6, CYP2C9, and CYP3A was evaluated in vitro. Based on these data lixisenatide is unlikely to 
cause drug-drug interactions with CYP450 substrates or substrates of OCT2 and OATP1B1. 
In vivo lixisenatide delays gastric emptying and may thereby reduce the extent and rate of absorption 
of orally administered drugs. The influence on gastric emptying was estimated in T2DM patients by 
means of a 13C-octanoic acid breath test after a standardised breakfast test meal. Lixisenatide delayed 
gastric emptying resulting in both an increased lag-time and an increased half-life. The effect was 
larger for the 20 than the 10 microgram group, but similar between once daily and twice daily dosing. 
The variability was large and it was difficult to draw firm conclusions, but the data suggested that the 
effect at the 10-microgram dose may be about 80% of the effect expected at the therapeutic dose of 
20 micrograms. This conclusion was further supported by simulations performed to predict the effect of 
lixisenatide 20 micrograms on paracetamol based on the results obtained from the previous interaction 
study between lixisenatide 10 micrograms and staggered dosing of paracetamol. The simulated data 
predicted a decrease in paracetamol Cmax by 22% and a delay in its tmax by 1.75 h with the 20-
microgram  lixisenatide dose compared to the 10 microgram dose (when lixisenatide was given 1 h 
before paracetamol). 
The influence of lixisenatide on paracetamol (as a marker for gastric emptying), on oral contraceptives 
(efficacy dependent on threshold concentrations), on drugs commonly prescribed in patients with 
T2DM (ramipril and atorvastatin) and on drugs with narrow therapeutic window (digoxin and warfarin) 
were evaluated. Lixisenatide in general showed no or very small effects on AUC of the concomitantly 
administered drugs, but there was a delay in tmax and a reduction in Cmax, which was dependent on 
when lixisenatide was administered in relation to the concomitantly administered drug. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/81 
 
 
 
 
The effect of lixisenatide on tmax of co-administered drugs was most pronounced for warfarin, which 
had a prolonged tmax by 7 hours. For the other co-administered drugs, this effect varied between 1 to 
4 hours. The apparent pronounced effect on warfarin tmax is likely to be explained by the study design 
with scarce sampling around Cmax of the compound and possibly also by the narrower dosage interval 
between warfarin and lixisenatide. When paracetamol, ethinylestradiol, levonorgestrel, atorvastatin, 
warfarin and digoxin were administered ½-1 hour after the lixisenatide dose, their respective Cmax 
was reduced by approximately 20%-50%. Based on the results when paracetamol and oral 
contraceptives were dosed at different time intervals relative to the lixisenatide dose, it was concluded 
that these effects (prolonged tmax and reduced Cmax), could be avoided if co-administered drugs 
were given 1 hour before or 11 hours after lixisenatide. In the SmPC drugs that are dependent on 
threshold concentrations (such as antibiotics) and gastro-resistant formulations are recommended to 
be administered 1 h before or 4 h after lixisenatide ingestion. 
Lixisenatide, dosed in the morning, unexpectedly increased the AUC and Cmax of atorvastatin, dosed 
in the evening, by 27% and 66%, respectively. These effects were concluded by the applicant to be of 
no clinical relevance with no need for dose adjustment of atorvastatin. This conclusion was based on 
that the increased exposure to atorvastatin dosed in the evening was still in the same range as the 
exposure to atorvastatin dosed without lixisenatide in the morning. In addition, an analysis of phase III 
data did not reveal any differences in the report of adverse events between patients with and without 
co-administration of statins. The reduction in Cmax of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel, were in the 
same range as has been observed for Byetta, and is mentioned in a similar way in the SmPC 4.5.The 
exposure of ramipril was also affected by lixisenatide with increased AUC (by 21%) and reduced Cmax 
(by 63%). However, since these parameters were unaffected for the active metabolite (ramiprilat), no 
dose adjustments are required when co-administering ramipril with lixisenatide.  
The SmPC indicates that no dose adjustment is required for atorvastatin, oral contraceptive and 
ramipril when co administered with lixisenatide.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Several PD studies have been performed to assess the primary and secondary pharmacology of 
lixisenatide 
Mechanism of action 
The physiological GLP-1 receptor agonist, GLP-1, is a hormone (incretin) which is secreted from the L-
cells of the gastrointestinal tract following ingestion of a meal. As a class, GLP-1 and its analogs are 
known to stimulate insulin release from the pancreatic islets (insulinotropic release), suppress 
glucagon secretion, delay gastric emptying, and reduce body weight. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Study PDY10433 was a placebo-controlled study conducted under euglycaemic clamp conditions in 
patients with T2DM investigating the insulin response to an intravenous glucose challenge after 
administration of lixisenatide as a single dose of 20 micrograms. 
There was a 6.6-fold increase in first-phase insulin release (AUC0-10 min) and a 3.0-fold increase in 
second phase insulin release (AUC10-120 min). These increases were accompanied by 6.09-fold and 
2.08-fold increases in first and second-phase C-peptide releases, respectively. In the same study, 
there was a reduction in mean glucagon concentrations seen under the euglycaemic clamp conditions 
during the 2 hours between administration of lixisenatide at a single dose of 20 micrograms and 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/81 
 
 
 
 
administration of the intravenous glucose challenge.  In contrast, the mean glucagon concentrations 
increased during this time period after administration of placebo.  After administration of the glucose 
challenge, lixisenatide did not affect glucagon release, as compared to placebo.  
The overall trend in all studies was that, compared to placebo, treatment with lixisenatide resulted in 
decreased postprandial glucagon levels versus baseline at all doses tested with the once daily and 
twice-daily regimens. 
The effect of lixisenatide on gastric emptying rate was investigated by means of a 13C octanoic acid 
breath test in Study ACT6011 in patients with T2DM. Notable increases in the mean half-life and lag-
time occurred after treatment with lixisenatide at the 10 and 20 micrograms dose levels in the once 
daily and twice-daily regimens (eg, increase in half-life of more than 2 hours at the 20 micrograms 
dose level).  The extent of the effect at 10 micrograms of lixisenatide was approximately 80% that 
observed at 20 micrograms, indicating that lixisenatide delayed gastric emptying at all doses tested. 
The effect of lixisenatide on body weight was examined in several phase 2 and 3 studies showing 
reductions ranging from 1 to 2 kg. Satiety markers were assessed in Study PDY10931. This 
assessment showed some trends toward postprandial decreases in peptide YY3-36 (PYY3-36) and 
oxyntomodulin levels. 
Study PDY11941 was conducted to examine whether the counterregulatory hormone response 
(glucagon, cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, growth hormone) and hypoglycaemia awareness were 
preserved during provoked hypoglycaemia in the presence of lixisenatide. There were no indications of 
an attenuated response to hypoglycaemia. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Cases of acute pancreatitis have been reported in patients treated with GLP-1 agonists, and it has been 
discussed whether this could be a potential class effect due to changes in sphincter of Oddi motility 
subsequent to gastric distension, predisposing patients to gallbladder sludge or gallstone formation and 
thus pancreatitis. Study PDY11431 was performed to assess the effect of lixisenatide on gallbladder 
emptying induced by a continuous infusion of cholecystokinin. Administration of a single 20-microgram 
dose of lixisenatide in healthy subjects significantly reduced the gallbladder ejection fraction in 
response to CCK 8 at 30 and 60 minutes compared to placebo. However, no increase of hepatobiliary 
adverse events was detected in the phase 3 placebo-controlled trials.  
Due to potential signals of hypospermatogenesis identified from toxicology studies in dogs (see non-
clinical section), a potential for similar changes with lixisenatide in humans was investigated in Study 
TDR11215. The study was conducted in healthy subjects to assess the effect of lixisenatide on sperm 
concentration, total sperm count, sperm motility and morphology and on reproductive hormones. The 
results did not show a statistically significant difference compared to placebo with respect to proportion 
of subjects with at least 50% reduction in sperm concentration, which was supported by secondary 
endpoints. It is thus unlikely that the findings in dogs are of relevance for humans. 
Study TES6865 was performed with the aim to assess the effect of multiple doses of lixisenatide on 
QTcF and other ECG parameters (heart rate, QT, QTcB, and QTcN) compared to placebo, with 
measurement of plasma concentrations of lixisenatide at the times of QTcF assessment.  
After multiple administration of lixisenatide at maintenance (20 micrograms once daily) or 
supratherapeutic (30 micrograms twice daily) doses, there was no mean increase in QTcF from 
baseline during the time interval of 1 to 5 hours after lixisenatide administration. The mean increase 
for the moxifloxacin control group versus placebo for this time interval was 9.16 ms.  In subjects 
receiving lixisenatide 20 micrograms once daily or 30 micrograms twice daily, the mean heart rate 
increased by 1.02 and 4.73 bpm, respectively, from baseline compared to placebo.  For both 
lixisenatide doses, the 1 sided nonadjusted upper limit of the 95% CI of the largest time-matched 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/81 
 
 
 
 
mean difference from baseline versus placebo on Day 28 was <10 ms for both QTcF (9.36 ms in the 
20 micrograms QD group and 8.58 ms in the 30 micrograms BID group) and QTcN (9.92 ms for the 
20 micrograms once daily group and 5.05 ms for the 30 micrograms BID group).  No prolonged QTcF, 
QTcN, or QTcB intervals (>450 ms for males, >470 ms for females), no increases of >60 ms in QTcF, 
QTcN, or QTcB from baseline were observed for subjects receiving lixisenatide.  There was a non 
significant increase of PR interval compared to moxifloxacin/placebo. 
To obtain time-matched baseline measurements to allow detection of differences in diurnal patterns 
between subjects that would not otherwise be detected by a predose baseline measurement, a second 
thorough QT/QTc study (TES11807) has been conducted to provide further evidence on the cardiac 
safety of lixisenatide. This study had a larger sample size (planned with 65 subjects per treatment 
group) compared to Study TES6865 (planned with 22 subjects per treatment group). In study 
TES11807, neither 20 micrograms lixisenatide once daily nor 30 micrograms lixisenatide twice daily 
prolonged the QTcF interval. Transient increases were observed for heart rate and less pronounced 
ones for PR interval (see further safety section). 
Relationship between concentration and response 
Lixisenatide reduces fasting plasma glucose concentration over time which could be described by an 
inhibitory indirect response model. The inter-individual variability of the sensitivity (EC50) in the 
response to lixisenatide was high. The effect of weight, gender, age and race was investigated but no 
firm conclusion about covariate effects could be drawn. 
The plasma glucose response to a standardised breakfast challenge decreased with increasing 
exposure of lixisenatide which was described using an Emax model. The effect of weight, gender, age 
and race was investigated but no firm conclusion about covariate effects could be drawn. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Lixisenatide PK is greatly influenced by presence of lixisenatide antibodies. The pharmacokinetics were 
therefore mainly evaluated in subjects and patients without anti-lixisenatide antibodies. The variability 
in exposure is markedly increased in antibody-positive subjects. Antibody formation does not affect the 
active lixisenatide concentration, and would hence from a pharmacokinetic perspective not be expected 
to affect efficacy. Effects of intrinsic and extrinsic effects were based on evaluation of data in anti-body 
negative patients only. The effects of intrinsic factors on lixisenatide concentration in antibody-negative 
subjects are in general modest, with the largest effect observed in severe renal impairment in which 
use is not recommended. It is not expected that effects of other intrinsic factors on lixisenatide PK 
would differ to a clinically relevant extent between antibody positive and antibody negative subjects. 
Therefore, the lack of evaluation of intrinsic effects on active lixisenatide concentration in antibody-
positive subjects can be accepted.   
The absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination of lixisenatide have in general been 
adequately characterised. The extent of absorption is independent of injection site, while rate of 
absorption is somewhat slower after administration in the thigh than in the arm or abdomen resulting 
in a slightly delayed tmax (change in median from 2 to 2.5 hours), and somewhat lower Cmax (mean 
ratio 0.86). The small difference in absorption rate between injections sites is not considered clinically 
relevant. 
The 100 microgram/ml strength was used in Phase 3 also for administration of the 10 microgram dose. 
In the bioequivalence study comparing rate and extent of absorption after administration of a 10 
microgram dose of the 50 microgram/ml and 100 microgram/ml lixisenatide solutions, bioequivalence 
for AUC∞ and Cmax was demonstrated, while the 90% CI of the AUClast ratio was 0.78-0.89. The 50 
microgram/ml strength is used for titration purposes and the slightly lower AUClast is not of safety or 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/81 
 
 
 
 
efficacy concern.  The deviation from the normal acceptance range is small and as it is not considered 
to be of any clinical relevance, this deviation in the demonstration of bioequivalence is considered 
acceptable.  
Renal function is the intrinsic covariate affecting lixisenatide exposure the most. The effect of renal 
function on lixisenatide PK has been evaluated in a dedicated phase I study, as has the effect of age 
and to some extent race. Apart from renal impairment, the difference between exposures in different 
sub-groups seems to be small in relation to the large variability in PD. Effects of gender, weight and 
race seem to be fairly small and are judged not to be clinically relevant. Consequently, although some 
shortcomings were identified in the population pharmacokinetic analyses evaluating effects of intrinsic 
factors, further development or qualification of the population PK analysis models is not expected to 
change the conclusion regarding effects of intrinsic factors.  
Renal function is the main factor influencing the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide, with an observed 
24% increase in AUC in moderate renal impairment and 46% in severe renal impairment. Patients with 
creatinine clearance < 17 ml/min including dialysis patients were not evaluated in this study. A larger 
effect on lixisenatide exposure is expected in these patients. It is noted that data in the renal 
impairment study are variable and exposure to a large extent overlapping between renal function 
groups. The SmPC states that use is not recommended in severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance <30 ml/min) or end stage renal disease, and that Lyxumia should be used with caution in 
patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 ml/min). Given the large overlap 
in exposure between renal function groups this is acceptable from a pharmacokinetic perspective.  
The influence of hepatic impairment on lixisenatide pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated. This is 
considered acceptable as lixisenatide is a 44 amino-acid protein with a molecular weight of about 4800 
which is expected to be mainly cleared by renal elimination. No dose adjustment is needed in patients 
with hepatic impairment. 
The interaction potential of lixisenatide has in general been well documented. The interaction studies 
showed that lixisenatide reduced the rate but not the extent of absorption of the concomitantly 
administered drugs. The delay in the rate of absorption of orally administered medicinal products 
caused by lixisenatide has led to the recommendation that medicinal products that are particularly 
dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy (such as antibiotics) and gastro-resistant 
formulations should be taken at least 1 h before or 4 h after lixisenatide. Further, medicinal products 
that have a narrow therapeutic ratio or that require careful clinical monitoring should be followed 
closely.  
As a class, GLP-1 and its analogs are known to stimulate insulin release from the pancreatic islets 
(insulinotropic release), suppress glucagon secretion, delay gastric emptying, and reduce body weight. 
This mechanism of action has been confirmed in the performed PD studies which indicate that there 
does not seem to be any major differences between the mechanism of lixisenatide compared to other 
compounds in the class. The counteracting hormone response to hypoglycaemia is not blunted by 
lixisenatide. There was a reduction of gallbladder ejection fraction which could result in an increased 
risk of pancreatitis. This event will be monitored in post marketing studies and information is included 
in the product information. In the submitted QT study, there were no indications of a QT prolonging 
effect, but a possible effect on the PR interval. The results of a new QT study have been submitted. In 
this study (Study TES11807), neither 20 microgram lixisenatide once daily nor 30 microgram 
lixisenatide twice daily did prolong the QTcF interval. Transient increasing effects were observed for 
heart rate and less pronounced for PR interval. 
In dogs, hypospermatogenesis and focal sperm stasis were seen after ≥13-week treatment at high 
doses and high exposure multiples. A study in healthy males TDR11215 did not show a statistically 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/81 
 
 
 
 
significant difference compared to placebo with respect to proportion of subjects with at least 50% 
reduction in sperm concentration, which was supported by secondary endpoints. It is thus unlikely that 
the findings in dogs are of relevance for humans. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide has been adequately characterised. Except for severe renal 
impairment, there is a moderate influence of intrinsic factors on lixisenatide PK. Exposure differences 
based on age (up to 79 years), weight, race, mild and moderate renal impairment were less than 30%.  
The interaction potential of lixisenatide has in general been well documented. Lixisenatide delays 
gastric emptying and may thereby reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered drugs. Lyxumia 
should be used with caution in patients receiving oral medicinal products that require rapid 
gastrointestinal absorption, require careful clinical monitoring or have a narrow therapeutic ratio. 
This mechanism of action has been confirmed in the performed PD studies which indicate that there 
does not seem to be any major differences between the mechanism of action of lixisenatide compared 
to other compounds in the class. In the submitted QT study, there were no indications of a QT 
prolonging effect, but a possible effect on the PR interval. The results of a new QT study have been 
submitted. In this study (Study TES11807), neither 20 microgram lixisenatide once daily nor 
30 microgram lixisenatide twice daily did prolong the QTcF interval. Transient increasing effects were 
observed for heart rate and less pronounced for PR interval. See further information in the Section 
Significant Adverse Events in the Safety Section of this report. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
Based on the results of the phase 2 dose finding studies (in particular study DRI6012), the Applicant 
came to the conclusion that the optimal benefit/risk ratio was observed with the 20 micrograms once 
daily dose.  
Study DRI6012 was a 13 week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group Phase 2 
study assessing the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of lixisenatide administered at several doses once 
daily or twice daily as an add-on treatment to metformin in patients with T2DM.  
Figure 1  Mean change in HbA1c (%) from baseline to endpoint - ITT population 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2.  Mean change in body weight 
Concerning safety, most reports were from the system organ class of Gastrointestinal disorders, with 
the most frequently reported TEAE being nausea;frequencies ranged from 7.3% (5 micrograms) to 
35.2% (30 micrograms) in lixisenatide once daily groups (25.5% with 20 micrograms once daily) and 
from 7.5% (5 micrograms) to 33.3% (30 micrograms) in lixisenatide twice daily groups (14.3% with 
10 micrograms twice daily). 
It is agreed that higher doses than 20 micrograms once daily did not contribute much with respect to 
glucose lowering effect, but were associated with more adverse events. The results indicate that 
lixisenatide was effective whether it was injected once daily in the morning or once daily in the 
evening. 
2.5.2.  Main studies  
Pivotal Studies EFC6018, EFC6014, EFC6015, EFC6016, EFC10743, EFC10887, EFC6019 
At the primary cut-off date of 30 April 2011, the clinical development program of lixisenatide included 
4 phase 2 studies (all completed) and 13 phase 3 studies (9 completed and 4 ongoing). 
The placebo controlled phase 3 studies included one monotherapy study (EFC6018) and 5 add-on 
studies (EFC6014; metformin, EFC6015; SU+/-metformin, EFC6016 ;insulin+/-metformin, EFC10743; 
metformin, and EFC10887; insulin +/-SU). 
One exenatide-controlled study was performed in the add-on to metformin setting (Study EFC6019).  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive Study EFC10780 
One additional active controlled study vs sitaglitpin (EFC10780) is summarised latter in this report in 
the Section Supportive Studies.   
A ninth phase 3 study was an uncontrolled safety study in Japanese subjects (not included in this 
report). 
Additional Studies EFC6017, EFC10781, EFC11319, EFC11321 
The four ongoing studies at the time of MAA were examining lixisenatide as add-on to pioglitazone +/- 
metformin (EFC6017), as add-on to insulin glargine and metformin +/- TZD (EFC10781), and as add-
on to metformin +/- SU (EFC11321). The fourth study is an ongoing cardiovascular outcome study, the 
results of which are not expected to be available before end of 2014 (EFC11319). 
During the procedure, the results of studies EFC10781 and EFC6017 had been submitted. 
The following sections describe the pivotal phase 3 studies which were submitted at the start of the 
procedure. 
Methods 
All phase 3 studies were parallel-group, controlled, and randomised.  A double-blind design was used 
in 7 out of 8 Phase 3 controlled studies and 3 out of 4 Phase 2 controlled studies.  Study EFC6019 was 
open-label, because a placebo of the active comparator was not available.  
Study Participants  
All controlled Phase 3 studies were performed worldwide (except Study EFC10887, which was 
conducted in Asia only).  Included patients were adult (ie. >18 years old in most countries), male and 
female patients with type 2 diabetes, without an upper age limit in pivotal Phase 3 studies.  HbA1c was 
to be between 7 and 10% inclusive and FPG ≤13.9 mmol/L at screening. In the add-on treatment 
studies, patients were included with a mandatory background antidiabetic medication at a stable dose 
for at least 2 months (basal insulin) or 3 months (a SU or metformin) before screening. 
Treatments 
In all Phase 3 studies, except the 12 week Study EFC6018, the maintenance period was composed of a 
main 24 week controlled treatment period, which was used for the main efficacy analysis.  In Studies 
EFC6014, EFC6015, EFC6016, EFC6019, and EFC10743, the main treatment period was followed by a 
long-term controlled treatment period, which ended when the last randomised patient completed 
Week 76 visit. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the 7 pivotal Phase 3 studies was to demonstrate the efficacy of lixisenatide 
on glycemic control as evaluated by the reduction of HbA1c at Week 12 as monotherapy or at Week 24 
as add-on treatment. The effect of lixisenatide on body weight and other glucose parameters were 
assessed as a secondary objective in all studies.  In the 5 Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies antibody 
status (positive or negative) and concentration of anti-lixisenatide antibodies were evaluated. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/81 
 
 
 
 
Participant flow 
In total, 3825 patients with T2DM were randomised in the 7 pivotal Phase 3 studies out of which the 
majority (98.1% to 100.0% depending on the treatment group) was included in the mITT efficacy 
analysis. 
The following numbers of patients were randomised to lixisenatide by background therapy in the mITT 
population: 
  238 patients to lixisenatide as monotherapy  
  570 patients to lixisenatide as add-on to SU with or without metformin, including 88 patients with 
SU alone  
  1145 patients to lixisenatide as add-on to metformin alone  
  327  patients  to  lixisenatide  as  add-on  to  basal  insulin  with  or  without  metformin,  including  67 
patients with basal insulin alone  
  154 patients to lixisenatide as add-on to basal insulin with or without SU, including 46 with basal 
insulin alone  
Overall in pivotal Phase 3 studies, more than 85% of randomised patients in all treatment groups 
completed the main treatment period (24 weeks in most studies). In studies lasting at least 76 weeks, 
the completion rate ranged from 64.7 to 81.4% in the lixisenatide group and from 68.9 to 78.4% in 
the placebo group.  
The main reasons for treatment discontinuation during the main treatment period in the lixisenatide 
groups were adverse events (mainly gastrointestinal side effects), followed by other reasons. In all 
Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, the number of patients discontinuing the investigational product 
during the main treatment period for lack of efficacy was 0 to 0.9% in the lixisenatide group compared 
to 0.6 to 2.4% in the placebo group.  
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic characteristics were generally comparable between treatment groups within 
each pivotal Phase 3 study. In the mITT population, the majority of all patients was Caucasian: 52.2% 
in Study EFC6015; 73.0% in Study EFC6018; 77.5% in Study EFC6016; and approximately 90% in 
“add-on to metformin alone” studies (EFC6014, EFC10743, and EFC6019), in which fewer than 10% of 
patients were Asian. All patients were Asian (Japan, South Korea, Philippine Islands, and Taiwan) in 
Study EFC10887, as well as 44.7% (Taiwan, India, Japan, South Korea, Thailand)  of patients in Study 
EFC6015, 22.0% in Study EFC6018, and 16.8% in Study EFC6016. The percentage of black patients 
ranged from 0 to 4.1%. The proportion of Hispanic patients was 35.7% in Study EFC6014, 30.1% in 
Study EFC10743, and 45.5% in Study EFC10780. 
The gender ratio was generally comparable between groups and across placebo-controlled studies, 
with a range of 48.5% to 56.9% of female patients. 
Median age of the study population ranged from 54 to 59 years across pivotal studies. The majority of 
patients were between 50 and 65 years of age. The percentages of patients ≥65 to <75 years of age 
ranged from 8.1% (Study EFC10743, lixisenatide 2-step) to 25.5% (Study EFC10887, placebo) and 
≥75 years ranged from 0% (Study EFC10743, lixisenatide) to 5.2% (Study EFC10887, lixisenatide).  
The shortest mean duration of diabetes (2.50 years in all patients) was observed in Study EFC6018 
and in “add-on to metformin alone” studies (from 4.42 years in Study EFC10780 to 6.75 years in Study 
EFC6019). Mean known duration of diabetes was more than 9 years in Study EFC6015 (add-on to SU) 
and more than 12 years in Studies EFC6016 and EFC10887 (add-on to basal insulin). 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/81 
 
 
 
 
Patients were generally overweight or obese. Excluding Study EFC10887 conducted only in Asian 
patients, median BMI at baseline in all patients ranged from 28.94 (Study EFC6015) to 32.62 kg/m² 
(Study EFC6019).  
The population in study EFC10887, entirely performed in Asia, had lower BMI (mean 25.3 kg/m²) and 
daily insulin doses (mean 24.5 U) than are usually seen in an EU population. 
The percentage of patients with baseline microvascular complications was as follows; diabetic 
retinopathy (placebo: 14.5%, lixisenatide 12.7%), diabetic sensory or motor neuropathy (placebo: 
23.7%, lixisenatide 22.8%), diabetic autonomic neuropathy (placebo: 3.6%, lixisenatide 1.9%), and 
diabetic nephropathy (placebo: 8.5%, lixisenatide 6.2%).  
Hypertension and dyslipidemia were the most commonly reported co-morbidities at baseline, approx 
66 and 50% of patients, respectively. The proportion of patients with a history of CV event was 10.8% 
in the lixisenatide group. The majority of the patients were nonsmokers. Approximately 80% of the 
patients had normal baseline renal function based on their creatinine clearance (mL/min). In 
lixisenatide-treated patients, 17.2% had mild and 1.3% had moderate renal impairment based on their 
creatinine clearance (mL/minute). Severe renal impairment at baseline was not observed in any 
lixisenatide-treated patient. 
Studies submitted during the MAA procedure. 
Study EFC10781 
This study included 446 insulin-naïve patients with T2DM insufficiently controlled with stable doses of 
metformin ≥ 1.5 g/day or a combination of stable doses of metformin ≥ 1.5 g/day with SUs (to be 
discontinued at screening) and/or TZDs; and HbA1c ≥7% and ≤10% at screening. All patients were 
started on insulin glargine on top of met +/- TZD and the dose was titrated to a FPG target between 
4.4 and 5.6 mmol/L. Patients whose HbA1c was ≥7% and ≤9%, and mean fasting SMPG calculated 
from the self measurements over the 7 days prior to Visit 12 was ≤7.8 mmol/L, were randomised to 
receive placebo or lixisenatide for 24 weeks. Insulin glargine could be further titrated if needed during 
this part of the study. 
The demography and patients’ baseline characteristics were generally similar across the 2 randomised 
treatment groups for the safety population. The median patient age was 57.0 years (56.0 years for 
lixisenatide and 57.0 years for placebo). The majority of patients were Caucasian (74.4%). Both 
genders were equally represented. At baseline, 53.8% of patients were obese with a median body 
mass index (BMI) of 30.71 kg/m2. 
Study EFC6017 
The primary aim was to assess the efficacy of lixisenatide on glycemic control in comparison to placebo 
as an add-on treatment to pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes patients treated with pioglitazone (with or 
without metformin) over a period of 24 weeks. Patients had T2DM diagnosed at least 1 year before the 
screening visit; insufficiently controlled with pioglitazone at a stable dose of ≥30 mg/day for at least 3 
months prior to screening; HbA1c ≥7% and ≤10% at screening; and, for patients treated with 
metformin, metformin treatment at a stable dose of ≥1.5 g/day for at least 3 months prior to 
screening.  
The majority of patients (392 patients [81.0%]) were taking metformin at screening, with a similar 
percentage of patients in each of the treatment groups (80.8% and 81.4% in the lixisenatide and 
placebo treatment groups, respectively). Patients who completed the main 24-week double-blind 
period entered a variable double-blind extension period, which ended for all patients approximately at 
the scheduled date of the Week 76 visit (Visit 25) for the last randomised patient. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/81 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Endpoint; reduction of HbA1c 
Mean baseline HbA1c was approximately 8% (7.97 to 8.12%, all groups) in all studies in which 
lixisenatide was used in monotherapy or add-on to metformin, and ranged from 8.25 to 8.53% in 
studies in which lixisenatide was used as add-on to SU or basal insulin. 
Mean difference in reduction of HbA1c compared to placebo when lixisenatide was used as 
monotherapy was 0.66%.  As add on to metformin the placebo adjusted reduction ranged from 0.37 to 
0.49%. The placebo groups in these studies showed reductions of HbA1c of 0.35 and 0.4 %, 
respectively which is considered as a large reduction considering that mean metformin doses at 
baseline was approx 2g/day.  In further post hoc analyses of patients recruited in Western and Eastern 
Europe, the mean placebo corrected effect was a reduction of HbA1c of approximately 0.5 %.  
Table 3   Placebo-controlled studies in combination with metformin (24-week results). 
Lixisenatide 
20 mcg  
(N= 160) 
Metformin as background therapy 
Lixisenatide 20 mcg 
Placebo  
(N= 159) 
Placebo  
(N= 170) 
Morning 
(N= 255) 
Evening 
(N= 255) 
7.99 
-0.92 
8.03 
-0.42 
8.07 
-0.87 
8.07 
-0.75 
8.02 
-0.38 
47.4 
24.1 
43.0 
40.6 
22.0 
Mean HbA1c (%) 
Baseline 
LS mean change from 
baseline 
Patients (%) achieving HbA1c 
<7.0% 
In study EFC6015 (add on to SU +/-metformin, 84% of patients on combination), the overall placebo 
adjusted reduction of HbA1c was 0.74%. The proportion of patients achieving HbA1c <7% was 36.4 % 
for lixisenatide and 13.5% for placebo.  
Two studies in the MAA examined the additive effect of lixisenatide when added to ongoing insulin 
treatment with or without metformin (study EFC6016, approx 80% of patients on metformin) or SU 
(study EFC10887, approx 70% of patients on SU). In study EFC6016, the placebo corrected reduction 
of HbA1c was 0.36% (p=0.0002). The insulin doses changed little, but were reduced somewhat more 
in the lixisenatide group compared to the placebo group (Table 4).  
Study EFC10887 was entirely performed in Asia and the study population differed to some extent 
compared to what is usually seen in Caucasian patients with respect to BMI and insulin doses. In this 
study, the placebo adjusted reduction in HbA1c was 0.88%.  The insulin doses in these studies 
changed little in the placebo or lixisenatide groups (Table 4). 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Placebo-controlled studies in combination with a basal insulin (24-week results) 
Basal insulin as background therapy 
Alone or in combination with 
metformin 
Basal insulin as background therapy 
Alone or in combination with a 
sulphonylurea * 
Placebo  
(N= 166) 
Lixisenatide 20 mcg 
(N= 154) 
Placebo  
(N= 157) 
Mean HbA1c (%) 
Baseline 
LS mean change 
from baseline 
Patients (%) 
achieving HbA1c 
<7.0% 
Mean duration of 
treatment with basal 
insulin at baseline 
(years) 
Mean change in basal 
insulin dose (U) 
Baseline 
LS mean change 
from baseline 
Lixisenatide 
20 mcg 
(N= 327) 
8.39 
-0.74 
28.3 
8.38 
-0.38 
12.0 
8.53 
-0.77 
35.6 
3.06 
3.2 
2.94 
53.62 
-5.62 
57.65 
-1.93 
24.87 
-1.39 
8.53 
0.11 
5.2 
3.01 
24.11 
-0.11 
*performed in Asian population 
In the active controlled study ECF6019, in which lixisenatide was compared to exenatide, the reduction 
of HbA1c was -0.96% in the exenatide group compared to -0.79% for  lixisenatide (mean difference 
0.17%, 95% CI 0.03- 0.297 in the predefined mITT population, upper bound 0.315 in the completer 
population). During the extension period, the proportions of patients who needed rescue therapy were 
19.4 and16.2% in the lixisenatide and exenatide groups, respectively. 
Table  5  Mean change in HbA1c from baseline to Week 24 in Study EFC6019 – mITT 
population 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Secondary Endpoints 
Table 6  LS mean difference in PPG, FPG, and body weight at Week 24 in the Phase 3 
placebo-controlled studies – mITT population 
Overall, the mean difference in body weight compared to placebo was approximately 1 kg. The effect 
was largest in study EFC6016 (1.3 kg). Concerning plasma glucose parameters the effect on post 
prandial glucose was in general more pronounced compared to fasting plasma glucose. 
In study EFC6019, the mean change in body weight was -3.98 kg and -2.96 kg in the exenatide and 
lixisenatide groups respectively.  
Ancillary analyses 
In Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, there were mean decreases in blood pressure values over time 
compared to baseline values in both treatment groups during the entire treatment period: mean 
changes in systolic blood pressure ranged from -0.7 mmHg to -2.1 mmHg in the lixisenatide group and 
1.1 mmHg to -1.8 mmHg in the placebo group. For diastolic blood pressure mean changes ranged from 
-0.6 mmHg to -1.5 mmHg in the lixisenatide group and 0.4 mmHg to -1.6 mmHg in the placebo group. 
No relevant mean changes were observed for serum lipids (total cholesterol, HDL-C, low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C], and triglycerides) over time compared to baseline values in both 
treatment groups during the entire treatment period. 
Clinical studies with Lyxumia indicate improved beta-cell function as measured by the homeostasis 
model assessment for beta-cell function (HOMA-β).  Restoration of first phase insulin secretion and 
improved second phase insulin secretion in response to an intravenous bolus of glucose were 
demonstrated in patients with type 2 diabetes (n=20) after a single dose of Lyxumia. 
Maintenance of effect 
The long-term efficacy of lixisenatide over at least 76 weeks was evaluated in Studies EFC6014, 
EFC6015, EFC6016, EFC10743 and EFC6019.  A controlled design was maintained until the end of the 
studies. This analysis was based on the mean (SE) change from baseline at each scheduled visit 
(HbA1c was measured at Week 36 then every 8 weeks) in patients who had an efficacy measurement 
at that visit, with no rescue medication being initiated prior to that visit. Mean change in HbA1c from 
baseline at Week 76 in the lixisenatide groups ranged from -0.70% in Study EFC6014 (evening 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/81 
 
 
 
 
 
injection group) to -0.92% in Study EFC10743 (2-step group). Mean decrease in the placebo groups 
was also sustained up to Week 76, ranging from -0.30% to -0.64%. In Study EFC6019, the change in 
HbA1c versus baseline at Week 76 was -0.86% in the lixisenatide group and  1.19% in the exenatide 
group. Concerning body weight, mean body weight remained relatively stable over 76 weeks or 
continued to decrease slightly in all studies. No further relevant decrease was observed after Week 24 
in most of the studies. 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main (pivotal) studies supporting the 
present application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical 
efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 7   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC6014 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter 24-week study followed by an extension 
assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 on top of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes not adequately controlled 
with metformin 
Study identifier 
Design 
EFC6014  
Multinational, randomised, double-blind, 4-arm, unbalanced design, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
Total duration of treatment: 
1 week 
≥76 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
680 patients randomised 
Lixisenatide morning 
Lixisenatide evening 
Placebo morning 
Placebo evening 
Endpoints and definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
HbA1c (%) 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
255 patients randomized 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
255 patients randomized 
2-step dose increase 
85 patients randomized 
2-step dose increase 
85 patients randomized 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
2-hour PPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in 2 hour postprandial plasma 
glucose (PPG) to Week 24 
FPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
HOMA-β 
Change from baseline in β-cell function assessed by 
homeostasis model assessment (HOMA)- β to Week 24 
Patients (%) requiring 
rescue therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
FPI (pmol/L) 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma insulin (FPI) to 
Week 24 
Database lock 
06 April 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
2-hour PPG change 
from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE) 
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE) 
Body weight change 
from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE)  
HOMA-β change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
FPI change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
Patients requiring 
rescue therapy: n (%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Placebo 
Lixisenatide morning  
Lixisenatide evening  
170 
255  
255 
-0.38 (0.075) 
-0.87 (0.065) 
-0.75 (0.066) 
-1.41 (0.588) a 
-5.92 (0.415) 
- 
-0.25 (0.166)  
-1.19 (0.145) 
-0.81 (0.146) 
-1.64 (0.269) 
-2.01 (0.234) 
-2.02 (0.236) 
-4.16 (2.823) 
7.96 (2.450) 
4.80 (2.486) 
-6.23 (3.254) 
-5.09 (2.812) 
-1.88 (2.862) 
18 (10.6) 
7 (2.7)  
10 (3.9) 
Comparison groups 
Lixisenatide morning 
versus Placebo 
Lixisenatide evening 
versus Placebo 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
-0.48 
-0.657 to -0.312 
<0.0001 
-0.37 
-0.540 to -0.193 
<0.0001 
Page 38/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
Comparison groups 
Lixisenatide morning 
versus Placebo 
Lixisenatide evening 
versus Placebo 
2-hour PPG 
FPG 
Body weight 
HOMA-β b 
Rescue therapy b 
FPI b 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference  
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
-4.51 
-5.652 to -3.371 
<0.0001 
-0.94 
-1.329 to -0.559 
<0.0001 
-0.38 
-0.995 to 0.239 
0.2293 
12.12 
5.685 to 18.559 
- 
0.0007 
1.14 
-6.275 to 8.561 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-0.56 
-0.944 to -0.173 
0.0046 
-0.39 
-1.006 to 0.230 
0.2181 
8.96 
2.450 to 15.477 
- 
0.0063 
4.35 
-3.121 to 11.826 
- 
Notes 
a Placebo morning only, n=85 patients 
b per step-down procedure, analyses considered exploratory 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC6015 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm parallel-group, multicenter, 24-week study followed by an 
extension assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 on top of a sulfonylurea in patients with type 2 diabetes not 
adequately controlled with sulfonylurea 
EFC6015 
Study identifier 
Design 
Multinational, randomised, double-blind, 2-arm, unbalanced design, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
Total duration of treatment: 
1 week 
≥ 76 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
859 patients randomised 
Superiority 
Lixisenatide 
Endpoints and definitions 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
HbA1c (%) 
2-hour PPG 
(mmol/L) a 
FPG (mmol/L) 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg) 
573 patients randomized 
2-step dose increase 
286 patients randomized 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
Change from baseline in 2 hour postprandial plasma 
glucose (PPG) to Week 24 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
HOMA-β 
Change from baseline in β-cell function assessed by 
homeostasis model assessment (HOMA)- β to Week 24 
Patients (%) 
requiring rescue 
therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
Database lock 
22 February 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) 
2-hour PPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) a 
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) 
Body weight change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
Placebo 
286 
-0.10 (0.071) 
Lixisenatide  
570 
-0.85 (0.061) 
-0.21 (0.489) 
-6.19 (0.408) 
-0.36 (0.161) 
-0.99 (0.139) 
-0.93 (0.234) 
-1.76 (0.202)  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 40/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
HOMA-β change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
Patients requiring rescue 
therapy: n (%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Secondary endpoints 
2-hour PPG  a 
FPG 
Body weight 
HOMA-β 
Rescue therapy b 
6.63 (5.663) 
4.83 (4.686) 
36 (12.6) 
23 (4.0) 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value  
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-0.74 
-0.867 to -0.621 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-5.98 
-6.912 to -5.043 
<0.0001 
-0.63 
-0.919 to -0.346 
<0.0001 
-0.84 
-1.250 to -0.421 
<0.0001 
-1.80 
-12.424 to 8.819 
0.7387 
<0.0001 
Notes 
a  2-hour PPG was performed in selected sites (n=120 patients in the placebo group and n=249 in the 
lixisenatide group) 
b  per step-down procedure, analyses considered exploratory 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC6016 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm parallel-group, multicenter study with a 24-week main treatment 
period and an extension assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 in patients with Type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled 
with basal insulin 
Study identifier 
Design 
EFC6016 
Multinational, randomised, double-blind, 2-arm, unbalanced design, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
Total duration of treatment: 
1 week 
≥76 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Lixisenatide 
496 patients randomised 
Endpoints and definitions 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
2-step dose increase (10 μg SC QD injections for 1 week, 
then 15 μg QD injections for 1 week followed by the 
maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
329 patients randomized 
2-step dose increase 
167 patients randomized 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
HbA1c (%) 
2-hour PPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in 2 hour postprandial plasma 
glucose (PPG) to Week 24 
7-point SMPG 
(mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in average 7-point self-monitored 
plasma glucose (SMPG) to Week 24 
FPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
Patients (%) requiring 
rescue therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
Database lock 
11 March 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE)  
2-hour PPG change from baseline: 
LS Mean (SE) 
7-point SMPG change from baseline: 
LS Mean (SE) 
Placebo 
166 
Lixisenatide  
327 
-0.38 (0.107) 
-0.74 (0.090) 
-1.72 (0.543) 
-5.54 (0.468) 
-0.61 (0.238) 
-1.49 (0.201) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FPG change from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE) 
Body weight change from baseline:  
LS Mean (SE)  
Patients requiring rescue therapy: n 
(%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Secondary endpoints 
2-hour PPG 
7-point SMPG 
FPG 
Body weight a 
Rescue therapy a 
-0.55 (0.281) 
-0.63 (0.233)  
-0.52 (0.293) 
-1.80 (0.246) 
12 (7.2) 
19 (5.8) 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference  
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value  
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-0.36 
-0.550 to -0.174 
0.0002 
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-3.81 
-4.699 to -2.925 
<0.0001 
-0.88 
-1.312 to -0.449 
<0.0001 
-0.08 
-0.590 to 0.430 
0.7579 
-1.28 
-1.803 to -0.747 
- 
0.5398 
Notes 
a  per step-down procedure, analyses considered exploratory 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC6018 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter 12-week study assessing the efficacy and 
safety of AVE0010 in patients with type 2 diabetes not treated with antidiabetic agents 
Study identifier 
EFC6018 
Design 
Multinational, randomised, double-blind, 4-arm, unbalanced design, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
12 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
1 week 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
361 patients randomised 
Lixisenatide 2-step 
Lixisenatide 1-step 
Placebo 2-step 
Placebo 1-step 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
HbA1c (%) 
2-hour PPG  
(mmol/L) a 
Endpoints and definitions 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
120 patients randomised 
1-step dose increase (10 μg for 2 weeks, then 
maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
119 patients randomised 
2-step dose increase 
61 patients randomised 
1-step dose increase 
61patients randomised  
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 12 
Change from baseline in 2 hour postprandial plasma 
glucose (PPG) to Week 12 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 12 
FPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 12 
Patients (%) requiring 
rescue therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 12-week period 
Database lock 
29 January 2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  12 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
2-hour PPG change 
from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE) a 
Body weight change 
from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE) 
Placebo 
121 
Lixisenatide 2-step  
Lixisenatide 1-step  
120  
118 
-0.19 (0.121) 
-0.73 (0.116)  
-0.85 (0.119) 
-0.65 (0.563) 
-4.51 (0.572) 
-5.47 (0.549) 
-1.98 (0.341) 
-1.96 (0.326) 
-1.92 (0.338) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
Patients requiring 
rescue therapy: n (%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Secondary endpoints 
2-hour PPG a 
Body weight 
FPG b 
Rescue therapy b 
0.19 (0.255) 
-0.68 (0.247) 
-0.89 (0.254) 
3 (2.5) 
2 (1.7) 
1 (0.8) 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference  
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value 
Lixisenatide 2-step 
versus Placebo 
-0.54 
-0.785 to -0.300 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide 2-step 
versus Placebo 
-3.86 
-5.375 to -2.353 
<0.0001 
0.02 
-0.654 to 0.701 
0.9462 
-0.87 
-1.374 to -0.361 
- 
0.6518 
Lixisenatide 1-step 
versus Placebo 
-0.66 
-0.903 to -0.423 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide 1-step 
versus Placebo 
-4.82 
-6.287 to -3.361 
<0.0001 
0.06 
-0.612 to 0.737 
0.8549 
-1.08 
-1.586 to -0.577 
- 
0.3260 
Notes 
a  2-hour PPG was performed in selected sites (n=62 in the placebo group, n=60 in the lixisenatide 2-step 
group, and n=65 in the lixisenatide 1-step group) 
b  per step-down procedure, analyses considered exploratory 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC6019 
Title: A randomised, open-label, active-controlled, 2-arm parallel-group, multicenter, 24-week study followed by an extension 
assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 versus exenatide on top of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes not 
adequately controlled with metformin 
Study identifier 
EFC6019 
Design 
Multinational, randomised, open-label, 2-arm, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
Total duration of treatment: 
not applicable 
≥76 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
639 patients randomised 
(includes 5 patients 
excluded from all analyses 
due to a significant 
noncompliance with the 
protocol) 
Endpoints and definitions 
Non-inferiority 
Lixisenatide 
Exenatide 
Primary 
endpoint 
Selected 
secondary 
endpoints 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
318 patients randomised 
1-step dose increase (5 μg BID for 4 weeks, and 
maintenance dose of 10 μg BID) 
316 patients randomised 
HbA1c (%) 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
FPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in fasting plasma glucose (FPG) to 
Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
Patients (%) 
requiring rescue 
therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
Database lock 
13 December 2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) 
Body weight change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
Patients requiring rescue 
therapy: n (%) 
Lixisenatide 
315 
-0.79 (0.053) 
Exenatide 
315 
-0.96 (0.054) 
-1.22 (0.116) 
-1.45 (0.119) 
-2.96 (0.231) 
-3.98 (0.232) 
7 (2.2) 
12 (3.8) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 46/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Secondary endpoints 
FPG a 
Body weight a 
Rescue therapy a 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
Risk difference 
95% CI 
Lixisenatide versus Exenatide 
0.17 
0.033 to 0.297 
Lixisenatide versus Exenatide 
0.23 
-0.052 to 0.522 
1.02 
0.456 to 1.581 
-1.6 
-4.41 to 1.16 
Notes 
a No formal interferential testing 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC10743 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter, 24-week study followed by an extension 
assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 in 2 titration regimens on top of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes not 
adequately controlled with metformin 
Study identifier 
EFC10743 
Design 
Multinational, randomised, double-blind, 4-arm, unbalanced design, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
Total duration of treatment: 
1 week 
≥76 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
 484 patients randomised 
Lixisenatide 1-step  
Lixisenatide 2-step  
Endpoints and definitions 
Placebo 1-step 
Placebo 2-step 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
HbA1c (%) 
FPG (mmol/L) 
1-step dose increase (10 μg for 2 weeks, then 
maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
161 patients randomised 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
161 patients  randomised 
1-step dose increase 
82 patients randomised 
2-step dose increase 
80 patients randomized 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
Patients (%) 
requiring rescue 
therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
Database lock 
25 February 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean 
(SE) 
Body weight change 
from baseline: LS 
Mean (SE) 
Placebo 
159 
Lixisenatide 2-step  
Lixisenatide 1-step  
160  
160 
-0.42 (0.099) 
-0.83 (0.099) 
-0.92 (0.101) 
0.11 (0.209) 
-0.56 (0.208) 
-0.53 (0.212) 
-1.63 (0.385) 
-2.68 (0.385) 
-2.63 (0.389) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Patients requiring 
rescue therapy: n (%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Secondary endpoints 
FPG 
Body weight 
Rescue therapy 
7 (4.4) 
5 (3.1) 
2 (1.3) 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value 
Lixisenatide 2-step 
versus Placebo 
-0.41 
-0.583 to -0.232 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide 2-step 
versus Placebo 
Lixisenatide 1-step 
versus Placebo 
-0.49 
-0.670 to -0.317 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide 1-step 
versus Placebo 
-0.67 
-1.035 to -0.301 
0.0004 
-1.05 
-1.727 to -0.371 
0.0025 
0.5499 
-0.65 
-1.019 to -0.275 
0.0007 
-1.00 
-1.687 to -0.317 
0.0042 
0.0905 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13   Summary of main efficacy endpoints in Study EFC10887 
Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm parallel-group, multicenter study with a 24-week treatment period 
assessing the efficacy and safety of AVE0010 in patients with Type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled with basal insulin with or 
without sulfonylurea 
Study identifier 
EFC10887 
Design 
Multinational (Asia), randomised, double-blind, 2-arm, parallel-group 
Duration of main treatment phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of run-in phase: 
1 week 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
311 patients randomised 
Superiority 
Lixisenatide 
Endpoints and definitions 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
endpoints 
2-step dose increase (10 μg QD for 1 week, then 15 μg 
QD for 1 week, then maintenance dose of 20 μg QD) 
154 patients randomised  
2-step dose increase 
157 patients randomised 
Change from baseline in HbA1c to Week 24 
HbA1c (%) 
2-hour PPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in 2 hour postprandial plasma 
glucose (PPG) to Week 24 
Body weight (kg) 
Change from baseline in body weight to Week 24 
7-point SMPG 
(mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in average 7-point self-monitored 
plasma glucose (SMPG) to Week 24 
FPG (mmol/L) 
Change from baseline in Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 
to Week 24 
Patients (%) requiring 
rescue therapy 
Percentage of patients requiring rescue therapy during 
the 24-week period 
Database lock 
16 July 2010 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population -  24 weeks from baseline 
Treatment group 
Number of patients 
HbA1c change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
2-hour PPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) 
Body weight change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE) 
7-point SMPG change 
from baseline: LS Mean 
(SE)  
Placebo 
157 
0.11 (0.131) 
Lixisenatide  
154 
-0.77 (0.137) 
-0.14 (0.563) 
-7.96 (0.598) 
0.06 (0.271) 
-0.38 (0.284) 
-0.56 (0.271) 
-1.91 (0.272) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
FPG change from 
baseline: LS Mean (SE)  
Patients requiring rescue 
therapy: n (%) 
Primary endpoint 
HbA1c 
Secondary endpoints 
2-hour PPG 
Body weight 
7-point SMPG a 
FPG a 
Rescue therapy a 
0.25 (0.302) 
-0.42 (0.314) 
5 (3.2) 
2 (1.3) 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference 
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference  
95% CI 
P-value 
LS Mean difference  
95% CI 
P-value 
P-value  
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-0.88 
-1.116 to -0.650 
<0.0001 
Lixisenatide versus Placebo 
-7.83 
-8.887 to -6.769 
<0.0001 
-0.43 
-0.925 to 0.061 
0.0857 
-1.35 
-1.843 to -0.861 
- 
-0.67 
-1.225 to -0.112 
- 
0.2564 
Notes 
a  per step-down procedure, analyses considered exploratory 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Apart from an indication of a more pronounced effect in Asian compared to  Caucasian patients, no 
striking differences between subgroups have been identified. The number of patients above 75 years of 
age is limited (N=56). As expected, the effect was more pronounced in patients with high baseline 
HbA1c.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 51/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2   Forest plot of LS mean difference between lixisenatide and placebo for change in HbA1c (%) 
from baseline to Week 24 (Week 12 for EFC6018) by baseline factors across 6 placebo-controlled 
studies – mITT population 
Anti-lixisenatide antibody status was examined in combined data from Studies EFC6015, EFC6016, 
EFC10743, and EFC10887. At the end of the main treatment period (Week 24), anti-lixisenatide 
antibody status was assessed as antibody-positive for 69.4% of evaluable patients. For those with high 
antibody concentrations (group 4, table 14), the mean HbA1c reducing effect was attenuated. 
However, as no correlation between antibody concentration categories and change in HbA1c was  seen, 
antibody status cannot be used for prediction of the glucose-lowering effect of lixisenatide. These 
findings are very similar to what has previously been seen for exenatide. 
Table   14   Meta-analysis  of  change  in  HbA1c  (%)  from  baseline  to  Week  24  by  anti-
lixisenatide antibody status and concentration across studies - mITT population 
Lixisenatide 
n/N (%)  
LS Meanb  
SEb  
95% C.I.b  
Anti-lixisenatide antibody statusa 
Positive 
Negative 
693/998 ( 69.4%) 
-0.81 
0.051 
(-0.914 to -0.714) 
305/998 ( 30.6%) 
-0.83 
0.065 
(-0.962 to -0.708) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 52/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Lixisenatide 
n/N (%)  
LS Meanb  
SEb  
95% C.I.b  
Anti-lixisenatide antibody concentrationc 
Not measured (antibody negative) 
305/986d ( 30.9%) 
<LLOQ 
477/986 ( 48.4%) 
-0.88 
0.054 
(-0.989 to -0.778) 
Total antibody negative or <LLOQ 
782/986d ( 79.3%) 
-0.86 
0.048 
(-0.956 to -0.766) 
≥ LLOQ 
    Group 1 
    Group 2 
    Group 3 
    Group 4 
204/986 ( 20.7%) 
-0.51 
0.073 
(-0.656 to -0.370) 
51/986 (  5.2%) 
-0.75 
0.130 
( 1.000 to -0.491) 
52/986 (  5.3%) 
-0.46 
0.126 
(-0.708 to -0.215) 
50/986 (  5.1%) 
-0.38 
0.125 
(-0.630 to -0.140) 
51/986 (  5.2%) 
-0.18 
0.128 
(-0.428 to 0.075) 
(Group 1: ≥LLOQ to <7.72 nmol/L, Group 2: ≥7.72 nmol/L to ≤15.50 nmol/L, Group 3:>15.50 nmol/L 
to ≤46.80 nmol/L and Group 4: >46.80 nmol/L).   
Supportive studies 
Study EFC10780 was a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, active controlled, 2-arm, parallel-
group study comparing the efficacy and safety of lixisenatide to sitagliptin as an add-on treatment to 
metformin in obese patients with T2DM younger than 50 years old.  
The primary objective was to assess the efficacy of lixisenatide compared to sitagliptin on a composite 
endpoint of the percentage of patients with both HbA1c <7% at Week 24 and a weight loss of at least 
5% from baseline at Week 24. 
A total of 319 patients were randomised (158 in the lixisenatide group and 161 in the sitagliptin 
group). All patients were treated with at least 1500 mg/day of metformin at baseline. 
The percentage of patients with HbA1c<7% at Week 24 and a weight loss of at least 5% of baseline 
body weight at Week 24 was higher in the lixisenatide group (12.0%) than in the sitagliptin group 
(7.5%). The treatment difference was not statistically significant (weighted average of response rate 
difference versus sitagliptin: 4.6%; p=0.1696 based on the primary analysis using the CMH method). 
The percentage of patients with HbA1c<7% at Week 24 was 40.7% in the lixisenatide group compared 
to 40.0% in the sitagliptin group, and percentage of patients with HbA1c≤6.5% was 24.0% in the 
lixisenatide group compared to 26.3% in the sitagliptin group. 
The LS mean changes in HbA1c from baseline to Week 24 in the lixisenatide group was -0.66% and in 
the sitagliptin group -0.72% (least squares [LS] mean difference versus sitagliptin 0.06%; 95% CI: -
0.179%, 0.308%). The percentage of patients who had ≥5% body weight loss from baseline to Week 
24 was 18.4% in the lixisenatide group and 11.9% in the sitagliptin group. Patients in the lixisenatide 
group had a significantly greater decrease in body weight than patients in the sitagliptin group (LS 
mean difference of -1.34 kg, 95% CI: -2.101 kg to -0.575 kg). The percentages of patients requiring 
rescue therapy were 9.5% in the lixisenatide group and 6.8% in the sitagliptin group. 
Study PDY6797 was a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study assessing the 
efficacy, safety, and PK of lixisenatide administered for 5 or 6 weeks, either once daily or twice daily, 
following dose escalation from 5 or 10 to 30 micrograms, as an add-on treatment to SU alone or 
combined with metformin in Japanese and Caucasian patients with T2DM.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 53/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective was to assess the effect of the highest tolerated dose of lixisenatide 
administered once daily or twice daily on the increase in AUC[0:29h-4:30h] of postprandial plasma glucose 
induced by a standardised breakfast.   A secondary objective was to assess the treatment-by-ethnicity 
interaction in Japanese and Caucasian patients on the change in variables assessed after a 
standardised breakfast (ie, 2 hour PPG, insulin, and glucagon), FPG, HbA1c, and body weight at the 
highest tolerated doses of lixisenatide.  Anti-lixisenatide antibody development was also assessed. 
For the AUC[0:29h to 4:30h] of PPG, pair-wise adjusted mean differences versus placebo were highly 
significant in both lixisenatide once and twice daily regimes at the highest well tolerated dose in the 
per protocol population (-333.4 and -288.8 h.mg/dL, respectively, p<0.0001).  The difference was 
significant in each ethnicity (Japanese patients,  406.7 and  346.3 h.mg/dL; Caucasian patients, 
 260.1 and  231.3 h.mg/dL, respectively).  
The treatment-by-ethnicity interaction test was statistically significant, with a greater decrease seen in 
Japanese patients (p=0.0074) in the mITT population.  
For HbA1c measured on the last day at the highest well-tolerated dose, the LS mean differences versus 
placebo in changes from baseline were  0.76% for lixisenatide once daily and  0.89% for lixisenatide 
twice daily in Japanese patients, and  0.31% and  0.56% in Caucasian patients, respectively (per 
protocol population). The changes in the placebo groups were -0.43% and -0.37% in the Japanese and 
Caucasian populations, respectively   
Study PDY10931 was a randomised, open-label, parallel-group Phase 2 study comparing the effects 
on PPG of lixisenatide 20 micrograms once daily (1 step dose increase regimen) with liraglutide 
(starting dose of 0.6 mg daily followed by 1.2 microgram daily for 1 week, then a maintenance dose of 
1.8 microgram daily), as an add-on treatment to metformin, in patients with T2DM not adequately 
controlled with metformin. 
The study duration per patient was approximately 4 weeks.   
Lixisenatide treatment resulted in a significant mean reduction in postprandial glucose (GLU-AUC0:30-
4:30h) from baseline to Day 28 of -227.25 h.mg/dL (95% CI: -246.88 to -207.61), which was larger 
than the reduction of -72.83 h.mg/dL (95% CI: -93.19 to -52.46) obtained in the liraglutide group.  
The mean estimate for the difference between the 2 treatments was -154.42 h.mg/dL (95% CI: -
180.30 to -128.54) and was statistically significant (p <0.0001).   
Mean HbA1c levels decreased in both treatment groups, from 7.20% and 7.41% (baseline) to 6.89% 
and 6.92% (at Day 28) in the lixisenatide and liraglutide groups, respectively. The estimated treatment 
difference for the change from baseline was 0.14% (lixisenatide versus liraglutide, p =0.01). 
Study EFC10781. During the procedure the applicant has submitted results from a new study 
(EFC10781) examining the addition of lixisenatide to insulin glargine compared to placebo. At the end 
of the 24-week treatment period, the mean HbA1c value was reduced in both treatment groups to 
6.96% in the lixisenatide group and 7.28% in the placebo group (mean difference -0.32%, CI -0.46% 
to -0.17%). A significantly higher percentage of patients in the lixisenatide group reached target 
HbA1c <7 % (56.3% versus 38.5 %, p = 0.0001) or ≤6.5% (32.1% versus 16.3%, p<0.0001) as 
compared with placebo. 
 A statistically significant difference in the body weight change from baseline was found between the 2 
treatment groups: body weight remained almost unchanged in the lixisenatide group but increased in 
the placebo group (LS mean body weight change from baseline to Week 24 of 0.28 kg and 1.16 kg, 
respectively; LS mean difference for lixisenatide versus placebo was -0.89 kg; 95% CI: -1.423, -
0.353; p = 0.0012). 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 54/81 
 
 
 
 
Over the 24-week on-treatment period, the daily insulin glargine dose in both groups increased 
gradually (LS mean change from baseline was 3.10 U in the lixisenatide group and 5.34 U in the 
placebo group, LS mean difference -2.24 U; 95% CI: -4.264, -0.218; p =0.0300), which was 
permitted by the protocol to maintain FPGs between 4.4 and 5.6 mmol/L. Concerning safety, TEAEs of 
hypoglycemia were reported in 27.4% treated with lixisenatide 19.3% on placebo.  
Study EFC6017. Another new study (EFC6017) was submitted during the procedure which assessed 
the efficacy of lixisenatide on glycaemic control in comparison to placebo as add-on treatment to 
pioglitazone (with or without metformin).  For the primary endpoint, change in HbA1c at week 24, the 
LS mean difference of -0.56% for lixisenatide versus placebo was statistically significant (95% CI: -
0.731%, -0.386%; p<0.0001). 
The maximal reduction in HbA1c during the whole double-blind treatment period was at Week 36 in 
both treatment groups and was then largely maintained for the remainder of the study. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based on the results of the phase 2 dose finding studies the applicant came to the conclusion that the 
optimal benefit/risk ratio was observed with the 20 micrograms once daily dose. It is agreed that 
higher doses did not contribute much with respect to the glucose-lowering effect, but were associated 
with more adverse events. The results also indicated that lixisenatide was effective whether it was 
injected once daily in the morning or once daily in the evening.  
In the mITT population, the majority of all patients were Caucasian.  All patients were Asian in Study 
EFC10887, as well as 44.7% of patients in Study EFC6015, 22.0% in Study EFC6018, and 16.8% in 
Study EFC6016.  The gender ratio was generally comparable between groups and across placebo-
controlled studies, with a range of 48.5% to 56.9% of female patients. 
Median age of the study population ranged from 54 to 59 years across pivotal studies.  The majority of 
patients were between 50 and 65 years of age. The percentages of patients ≥65 to <75 years of age 
ranged from 8.1% to 25.5% and ≥75 years ranged from 0% to 5.2%. 
In the monotherapy study (EFC6018) lixisenatide treatment resulted in a placebo adjusted reduction of 
HbA1c of approx. 0.6% after 12 weeks treatment. This effect size is considered to be of clinical 
relevance. Concerning the effect on body weight, the mean change was very similar in the placebo and 
the active group (approx. 2 kg reduction in both groups). 
In the placebo controlled add-on to metformin studies (EFC6014 and  EFC10743), performed primarily 
in Caucasian patients, treatment with lixisenatide resulted in statistically significant reductions in 
HbA1c compared to placebo ranging from 0.37 to 0.49 %. The assessment of the magnitude of the 
effect in these studies was complicated by a large placebo effect (0.35 and 0.4 %, respectively). In 
further post hoc analyses of patients recruited in Western and Eastern Europe, the mean placebo 
corrected effect was a reduction of HbA1c of approximately 0.5 % which is of clinical relevance. Thus, 
the magnitude of the effect of lixisenatide as add on to metformin was considered of clinical relevance 
by CHMP. Mean reductions in body weight were smalland the difference compared to placebo was only 
statistically significant in one of the two studies.  
The results in study EFC6017, in which lixisenatide was added to pioglitazone +/- metformin, showed a 
similar placebo-corrected reduction of HbA1c of -0.56%. 
As add on to SU, or SU+metformin, the mean placebo corrected reduction of HbA1c was 0.74 % which 
is considered a clinically relevant effect, particularly considering that patients already were treated with 
an insulin secretagogue. Mean reduction in body weight was 1.76 kg in the lixisenatide group. The 
difference from placebo (-0.93 kg) was statistically significant. This study (EFC6015) included a large 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 55/81 
 
 
 
 
proportion of Asian patients (approx. 45%) in which the placebo corrected glucose-lowering effect was 
somewhat more pronounced compared to Caucasian patients. 
Two studies examined the additive effect of lixisenatide when added to ongoing insulin treatment (with 
or without metformin and with or without SU). In study EFC6016, the placebo corrected reduction of 
HbA1c (-0.36%) was statistically significant. Mean body weight was reduced by 1.80 kg in the 
lixisenatide group. Study EFC 10887 was entirely performed in Asia and the study population differed 
compared to what is usually seen in Caucasian patients with respect to BMI and insulin doses. In this 
study, the placebo adjusted reduction in HbA1c was 0.88%, but the effect on body weight was very 
limited.  The benefit (with respect to HbA1c) of adding lixisenatide in comparison to up-titration of the 
insulin glargine dose in study EFC10781 (submitted during the procedure) was 0.32%. The benefit with 
respect to body weight was a 0.9 kg lower increase compared to placebo.  
The assessment of the magnitude of the effect of lixisenatide added to insulin was hampered by a large 
placebo effect. However, based on a subgroup analyses of the insulin studies (submitted during the 
procedure) of patients who could be expected to be adherent to background therapy, a reduction of 
HbA1c of 0.5-0.6% compared to placebo was considered plausible when lixisenatide is added to insulin. 
Further, responder rates show an additive effect compared to placebo. Thus, the glucose lowering 
effect was seen by CHMP to be of relevance also in combination with insulin.  
The results of the active controlled study EFC6019, applying the recommended non-inferiority margin 
of 0.3, indicated that the effect of lixisenatide may be inferior to exenatide. The reduction of HbA1c 
was larger with exenatide compared to lixisenatide with an upper 95% CI of 0.297% in the predefined 
mITT and 0.315% in the completer population, respectively. However, the absolute mean reduction of 
HbA1c with lixisenatide (-0.79%) was of clear clinical relevance. The reduction in body weight was 
more pronounced for exenatide than for lixisenatide (-3.98 and -2.96 kg, respectively) but of clinical 
relevance in both groups. The glucose lowering effect of lixisenatide was in general maintained in 
patients continuing into the extension phases of the studies.  
The effect of lixisenatide on plasma glucose parameters was statistically significantly larger compared 
to placebo in all studies. In one phase 2 study, lixisenatide was more effective in lowering post prandial 
glucose compared to liraglutide after 28 days of treatment.  
The results of some of the phase 3 studies indicate a difference in effect between Asian and Caucasian 
patients. This was further examined in the phase 2 study PDY6797. Also in this study, the effect of 
lixisenatide was more pronounced in Japanese patients compared to Caucasians and the treatment-by-
ethnicity interaction test was statistically significant, with a greater decrease in post prandial glucose 
seen in Japanese patients. This may be explained by the fact that Japanese patients had a lower BMI 
and higher insulin sensitivity at baseline. Japanese patients also had higher concentrations of 
lixisenatide which in turn was likely due to the lower mean body weight of the Japanese patients. 
However, the glucose lowering effect is considered to be of relevance also in Caucasian patients. 
Pooled analyses of anti-lixisenatide antibody status showed that at the end of the main treatment 
period (Week 24), 69.4% of evaluable patients were assessed as antibody-positive.  For those with the 
highest antibody concentrations, the mean HbA1c reducing effect was attenuated. However, as no 
correlation between antibody concentration categories and change in HbA1c was seen (i.e. patients with 
high antibody concentrations can have adequate as well as attenuated response to lixisenatide) , 
antibody status cannot be used for prediction of the glucose lowering effect of lixisenatide. These 
findings are very similar to those previously seen with exenatide.  
Apart from the difference in effect in Asian and Caucasian patients, no striking differences between 
subgroups have been identified. The number of patients above 75 years of age was limited (n=56). 
The number of patients with moderate and severe renal impairment was also very limited.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 56/81 
 
 
 
 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Treatment with lixisenatide as monotherapy or add on to other glucose-lowering therapies, resulted in 
absolute reductions in HbA1c ranging from -0.74 to -0.92% (12-24 weeks of treatment). The placebo 
adjusted reductions ranged from -0.36 to -0.88%. This magnitude of glucose lowering effect is 
considered as clinically relevant.  
Concerning non-inferiority compared to exenatide, this has not been robustly shown with respect to 
reduction of HbA1c and weight reduction. However, the absolute mean reduction of HbA1c with 
lixisenatide (-0.79%) as well as weight reduction (-2.8 kg) in the comparative study is of clear clinical 
relevance. Further, lack of proof of non inferiority could be acceptable considering other benefits such 
as once daily dosing and a lower incidence of hypoglycaemia and nausea (as described in the Safety 
Section of this report) in the comparative study. 
Overall, the mean difference in body weight with lixisenatide compared to placebo was approximately 1 
kg. In the diabetic population, reduction of body weight is always of clinical relevance and 
advantageous compared to the increase in weight with some other therapeutic options. 
In conclusion, the effects of lixisenatide on glucose parameters and body weight are considered to be 
of clear clinical relevance. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The primary safety data base, cut-off date of 30 April 2011, consists of safety data from 26 of the 
completed studies, 13 Phase 2/3 studies and 13 clinical pharmacology studies. The data from the 
Phase 2 and 3 studies are pooled into 2 main groups, and the studies included in these pools are listed 
below. At the secondary data cut-off date of 01 July 2011 for reporting deaths and serious adverse 
events (SAE), 2460 patients/subjects were randomised in ongoing studies: 484 in Study EFC6017, 446 
in Study EFC10781, 376 in Study EFC11321, 595 in Study EFC11319, 275 in Study TDR11215, 264 in 
Study TES11807 and 20 in Study PDY11824. 
Trials not included in the integrated database included 8 completed clinical pharmacology studies (3 
studies in special populations,  1 prolonged release formulation study, 4 combination studies with 
lixisenatide and insulin glargine), 4 ongoing Phase 3 studies (including the CV outcome study) and 
3 ongoing clinical pharmacology studies. Regarding the Phase 3 studies, the data analyses were 
ongoing for study EFC6017 at the time of the MAA submission and for studies EFC10781, EFC11321, 
and EFC11319 it was stated to remain blinded. The data from these studies have been discussed 
separately, where applicable.  
The comparative assessment of the clinical safety of lixisenatide is primarily based on the Phase 2/3 
studies pool and the Phase 3 placebo controlled studies pool. 
Patient exposure 
At least 1 dose of lixisenatide was given to the 3304 patients included in the primary safety population, 
i.e. patients in the pool Phase 2/3 studies. A majority (78%) of the lixisenatide-treated patients was 
exposed to a mean daily dose of >17.5 micrograms, i.e. to the recommended dosage regimen of 
lixisenatide. Of the 3304 patients, 2059 patients (78%) were exposed for at least 6 months (≥169 
days), 1692 (51%) for at least 1 year (≥365 days), 1233 (37%) for at least 18 months (≥547 days), 
and 197 (6.0%) for at least 2 years (≥729 days). See Table below. 
Total lixisenatide exposure for the lixisenatide treated subject in the Phase 2/3 studies was 3286 
subject-years with a mean exposure per subject of 1.0 years. Total lixisenatide exposure for the 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 57/81 
 
 
 
 
lixisenatide treated subjects in the placebo controlled phase 3 studies was 2587 subject-years with a 
mean exposure per subject of 1.2 years. 
Table 15 - Patient exposure (cut off date of 30 April 2011) - Safety population 
Patients 
Patients 
Patients 
exposed to 
enrolled 
exposed 
mean dose 
of >17.5μg  
Patients with long term safety 
data > 52 weeks/>78 weeks 
/>104 weeks 
Placebo-controlled (Phase 3)a 
3188 
2127 
1791e 
1387/1057/185 
Active-controlled (Phase 3)b 
953 
476 
 419 
248/176/12 
Open (Phase 3)c 
69 
Placebo/active control/open (Phase 2) d 
874 
69 
632 
 50 
312 
 57/-/- 
Grand total Phase 2/3 population 
3304 
2590f 
1692/1233/197 
Clinical pharmacology 
462 
404  
347 
Grand total primary safety data 
base 
3708 
 2937 
a EFC6014, EFC6015, EFC6016, EFC6018, EFC10743, EFC10887; b EFC10780, EFC6019 (Open); c LTS10888; d ACT6011, PDY6797, 
DR16012, PDY10931 e Cumulative exposure: 2586.8 patient-years; mean exposure 444.2 (SD 251.0) days /subject f Cumulative 
exposure: 3286.1 patient-years; mean exposure 363.3 (SD 264.5) days /subject 
Adverse events  
The summary of adverse events reported by at least 5% of lixisenatide-treated subjects in the Phase 
2/3 study populations is shown in the Table below.  
Table 16 - Adverse events reported by at least 5% of lixisenatide-treated subjects (Safety 
population Phase 2/3 studies) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 58/81 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse events associated with lixisenatide are nausea (26%), vomiting (10.5%) 
and diarrhoea (8.3%). This is not unexpected since gastrointestinal adverse events are common 
among GLP-1 receptor agonists.  
In addition, the adverse events occurring with a frequency ≥2% for the lixisenatide group and 
>1.5 times the incidence in placebo in the Phase 3 placebo controlled group were injection site 
reactions, decreased appetite, tremor, dyspepsia, and abdominal distension.   
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the pool of all Phase 2/3 studies, a total of 233 (7.9%) lixisenatide-treated patients reported SAEs 
compared with 128 (7.3%) patients in the all-comparators group (includes 103 placebo patients).  The 
reporting of SAEs was comparable between the treatment groups. 
In the pool of all Phase 2/3 studies, a total of 16 (0.5%) deaths were reported in the lixisenatide group 
compared with 11 (0.6%) deaths in the all-comparator groups. Of these, 5 deaths in the lixisenatide 
group and 3 in the all-comparators group occurred due to a post treatment AE.  The overall mortality 
rate per 100 patient years was similar between the lixisenatide group (0.5) and the all comparator 
group (0.6).  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 59/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant adverse events 
Nausea and vomiting 
The most common adverse events associated with lixisenatide are nausea (26%) and vomiting 
(10.5%) which mostly were mild to moderate in intensity. The onset and peak were within the first 3 
weeks and thereafter the incidence decreased. Approximately 70-80% of the patients experiencing 
nausea or vomiting completed the treatment. In the active controlled study versus exenatide 
(EFC6019), the incidence rate of nausea was 24.5%  in the lixisenatide group  compared to 35.1% for 
exenatide. 
Figure 3   Incidence (%) of patients with nausea by week in Phase 3 placebo controlled 
studies: main treatment period – safety population 
Studies included: EFC6014, EFC6015, EFC6016, EFC6018, EFC10743, and EFC10887 
In study DRI6012, a clear dose-response relationship was seen in the number of subjects with nausea: 
frequencies were 7.3% (5 micrograms), 11.5% (10 micrograms), 25.5% (20 micrograms) and 35.2% 
(30 micrograms) in lixisenatide once-daily groups. The onset of the gastrointestinal TEAE episodes 
(nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) decreased with time (appeared mostly during the first 3 to 6 weeks of the 
treatment), and were usually mild to moderate in intensity. To reduce the incidence of GI adverse 
events, a lower starting dose is recommended. 
Hypoglycaemia 
The incidence of symptomatic hypoglycaemia was 1.7% when lixisenatide was used as monotherapy  
(placebo 1.6%). In combination with metformin, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 7.0% of 
lixisenatide  patients and in 4.8% of placebo patients. 
In patients taking lixisenatide in combination with an SU and metformin, symptomatic hypoglycaemia 
occurred in 22.0% of lixisenatide treated patients and in 18.4% of placebo treated patients. In 
combination with a basal insulin with or without metformin, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 
42.1% of lixisenatide patients and in 38.9% of placebo patients. 
When lixisenatide was given with a sulphonylurea alone, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 
22.7% of lixisenatide treated patients versus 15.2% with placebo.  Given with a sulphonylurea and a 
basal insulin, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 47.2% of lixisenatide treated patients compared 
to 21.6% with placebo. 
Overall, the incidence of severe symptomatic hypoglycaemia was uncommon (0.4% in lixisenatide 
patients and 0.2% in placebo patients) during the entire treatment period of the phase 3 
placebo-controlled studies. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 60/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of symptomatic hypoglycaemia was 2.5 %for lixisenatide compared to 7.9% for 
exenatide in the comparative study. 
Cardiovascular events 
The incidence of cardiac disorders adverse events was 6.2% in the lixisenatide group compared to 
4.4% in the placebo group. The incidences of specific events compared to placebo were: palpitations 
1.5% vs 0.6%, tachycardia 0.7% vs <0.1%, supraventricular arrhythmias 1.1% versus 0.7%, cardiac 
conduction disorders 0.6% versus 0.1%.   
Concerning effect on QT, see the Section Clinical Pharmacology in this report. 
In the QT/QTc study TES11807, an increased heart rate (+7.3 bpm) was associated with the use of 
lixisenatide at maintenance therapeutic doses in healthy volunteers.  The increase in heart rate started 
approximately 1 hour after dosing and continued to approximately 10 hours after dosing.  In the phase 
3 studies no mean increase in heart rate was reported. Heart rate is monitored in the ongoing CV 
outcome study. Information regarding the increased heart in healthy volunteers has been included in 
SmPC section 4.8. 
A meta analysis of CV events has been submitted during the procedure, including the results of the 
studies EFC6017 and EFC10781. The results of the meta analysis of major cardiovascular events 
(MACE) (CV death, non fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, positively adjudicated by the 
Cardiovascular Events Adjudication Committee [CAC]) versus placebo was HR 1.25 (95% confidence 
interval 0.67-2.35). The increase in MACE was driven by a difference in non fatal stroke (0.7% versus 
0.4% for placebo). The incidence of other MACE endpoints did not differ between lixisenatide and 
placebo. 
Further data on CV safety will be captured in the ongoing long term (176 weeks) cardiovascular 
outcome study (study EFC11319; ELIXA) in type 2 diabetic patients who experienced an acute 
coronary syndrome event within 180 days prior to screening. The study was initiated in June 2010 and 
the planned number of patients is 6000 (). The study is ongoing with an expected date of completion 
in Q4 2014.  
Neoplasms 
In the non-clinical program with lixisenatide, proliferative thyroid C cell effects at very high exposure 
ratios (C­cell hyperplasia at exposure ratios ≥272 and C­cell adenoma at exposure ratios ≥913, both in 
rats and mice, and C­cell carcinoma at exposure ratios ≥4370 exclusively in rats but not in mice) were 
observed in 2-year carcinogenicity studies with lixisenatide in mice and rats.  This has also been seen 
for other products within the GLP-1 receptor agonist class. 
In the pool of all Phase 2/3 studies, thyroid neoplasms (including PT benign neoplasm of thyroid gland) 
were reported in 13 (0.4%) patients given lixisenatide and 4 (0.3%) in the placebo group. No thyroid 
cancer was reported in lixisenatide-treated group. Monitoring of serum calcitonin as a marker of 
thyroid C-cell neoplasms was implemented in all lixisenatide studies more than 3 months in duration or 
completed prior to 2009. There were no indications of altered calcitonin levels over time in the studies. 
Pancreatic carcinoma was reported by 3 (<0.1%) lixisenatide patients and 1 (<0.1%) patient in the 
comparator group. Thus, no trends could be observed. However, the risk for developing malignancies 
cannot be fully explored from data from short term studies. Malignancies will be monitored in ongoing 
studies as well as in planned epidemiological studies.  
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis has been previously identified as a potential safety issues for the GLP-1 receptor agonist 
class.  Overall there were more patients in the lixisenatide group [9 (0.3%)], when compared to the all 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 61/81 
 
 
 
 
comparators group [2 (0.1%)], who experienced AEs specific to pancreatitis (Class 2) such as 
pancreatitis, pancreatitis acute and pancreatitis chronic. In some instances the reported investigator 
verbatim term was “suspected pancreatitis”, which was coded to the PT of pancreatitis due to 
limitations of the MedDRA dictionary. When the events of pancreatitis acute and pancreatitis were 
confirmed, by either gastroenterologic consultation or positive imaging studies, the incidence was 
similar between the treatment groups. However, the duration of treatment is too short to properly 
address the issue. The risk of pancreatitis in patients treated with GLP-1 analogues may be low but it 
may be related to the mechanism of action. Acute pancreatitis is included as an important potential 
risk in the RMP which was endorsed by CHMP and is mentioned in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Acute renal failure 
There were 4 patients who reported serious TEAEs of renal failure in the Phase 2/3 studies (1 in the 
lixisenatide, 2 in the placebo group and 1 in the sitagliptin group). The lixisenatide- treated patient 
experienced acute renal failure secondary to cocaine abuse.  
Injection site reactions 
In all controlled studies in the Phase 2/3 pool, the incidence of injection site reaction was 5.3% in the 
lixisenatide group and 1.9% in the all-comparator group (placebo + active). The most frequently 
reported injection site reactions (>1% incidence) with lixisenatide versus all comparators were 
injection site pruritus (1.2% versus 0%) and injection site pain (1.1% versus 0.6%). No severe or 
serious TEAEs related to injection site reactions were reported. Nine out of 2950 patients discontinued 
lixisenatide treatment due to an injection site reaction. In the main treatment period of the Phase 3 
placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of injection site reaction was 3.9% in the lixisenatide group 
and 1.4% in the placebo group. In the comparative study with exenatide, the incidence of injection site 
reactions was 9.1 and 2.2% for lixisenatide and exenatide, respectively. 
Laboratory findings 
No clinically meaningful changes from baseline to last visit were noted in haematology parameters, 
chemistry or urinary analysis. No relevant mean changes were observed for liver tests, renal function, 
or serum lipid values over time compared to baseline values in both treatment groups during the entire 
treatment period in the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies. Significant increases in liver tests, renal 
parameters, or lipid values occurred in a limited number of patients, with a similar incidence between 
lixisenatide group and placebo group for all parameters. 
Safety in special populations 
Age  
In general, there seem to be no differences in safety between the age groups. Few patients 
(lixisenatide N=48, placebo N=31) in age group ≥75 years were enrolled in the studies and this has 
been reflected in SmPC section 4.2.  In the age group ≥ 65 to < 75 a total of 331 patients were 
treated with lixisenatide.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 62/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17   Related TEAEs by age group in Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies: Entire 
treatment period Safety population 
Gender 
The frequency of nausea- and vomiting-related events was higher in female patients compared to 
males in both lixisenatide and placebo groups. 
Race 
Higher incidences of nausea, vomiting and hypoglycaemia are seen in treated Asian/Oriental patients 
(with add on to basal insulin or insulin+SU as a background therapy) in comparison with Caucasian 
patients. With regard to Black patients, a total of 230 Black patients have been included in Phase 2-3 
controlled studies completed so far (142 exposed to lixisenatide and 88 in the all comparators group). 
Renal function 
A very low number of patients with moderate renal impairment (N=28/lixisenatide) were included in 
phase 3 studies. TEAEs were higher in patients with mild renal impairment than in patients with normal 
renal function, and there is a trend for an increased incidence of TEAEs in patients with moderate renal 
impairment. Additional analyses were performed on a subgroup of patients with either moderate or 
severe renal impairment and with body mass index (BMI) <25 kg/m2. In this specific population with 
moderate renal impairment, some adverse events (specifically nausea and headache) were more 
frequently reported than in the general population, although, hypoglycaemia was less frequently 
reported in the lixisenatide group than in the placebo group. Only few events were serious or led to 
discontinuation. The data is scarce and it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions from the reported 
safety data. Given the signal of a slight increase in adverse events in mild renal impairment and very 
limited clinical experience in moderate renal impairment it is reasonable to recommend use with 
caution in patients with moderate renal impairment.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 63/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibody data 
In lixisenatide-treated patients the proportion of patients with positive antibody status increased over 
time up to Week 24 (9.4% at Week 2; 37.3% at Week 4; 57.7% at Week 12 and 70.7% at Week 24) 
and then remained stable up to the end of treatment.  At Week 24, antibody concentration was 
measured in 710 of 719 antibody-positive patients and was found to be <LLOQ in 503 (70.8%) of 
them.  At Week 76, 45.0% of antibody-positive patients had an antibody concentration >LLOQ. The 
majority of the patients (67%) who discontinued were still positive after 3-6 months.  
In Study EFC6015, no cross-reactivity of the antibodies with endogenous GLP-1or glucagon, was seen 
in any of the patients. 
The effect of anti-lixisenatide antibody data on safety  
In the lixisenatide-treated group there was a higher incidence of TEAEs in the antibody-positive group 
(83.2%) compared to the antibody-negative group (74.7%) during the entire treatment period in the 
Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies.  However, there was no imbalance with respect to antibody status 
in the incidence of  common TEAEs including gastrointestinal disorders, dizziness, headache and upper 
respiratory tract infection.  The incidence of injection site reaction by anti-lixisenatide antibody status 
was reported as 4.7% in antibody-positive and 2.5% in antibody-negative patients during the entire 
treatment period. Injection site pruritus, 1.9% (vs 0.4% placebo), injection site erythema 1.1% (vs 
0% in placebo) were most prominent.  
Allergic reactions 
In the pool of all Phase 2/3 studies including studies EFC6017 and EFC10781, 56 (1.8%) lixisenatide 
patients and 19 (1.2%) placebo patients had events adjudicated by the ARAC as allergic reactions over 
the entire treatment period.   
Allergic reactions adjudicated as possibly related to the investigational product were reported in 0.4% 
of lixisenatide patients compared with less than 0.1% of placebo patients during the main 24-week 
treatment period. 
A total of 8 cases (0.2%) of anaphylactic reactions were adjudicated as possibly related to treatment in 
the lixisenatide group in controlled phase II/III studies versus none in the comparator group. In 
addition, 1 event of anaphylactoid reaction was reported in study EFC11321 which has recently been 
finalised. With the exception of the case reported in study EFC11321, the hypersensitivity reactions 
that were adjudicated by ARAC as anaphylactic reactions related to lixisenatide were mostly low grade 
in severity. None of the events required overnight hospitalization or airway protection. All of the 8 
events resolved rapidly, with limited specific corrective treatment, and all patients recovered without 
sequelae. A positive allergic history was reported for 3 of the patients. Three events were reported in 
patients with negative antibody status or concentration < LLOQ, 1 in a patient with a positive antibody 
status but no evaluation of antibody concentration, and 3 events were reported in patients with 
antibody concentration > 15.50 nmol/L. Urticaria was observed in 10 patients in the lixisenatide group 
(0.3%) vs 2 in the all-comparator group (<0.1%) and angioedema was seen in 4 patients in the 
lixisenatide group (0.1%) vs 2 in the all-comparator group (<0.1%). 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The most commonly used nondiabetic concomitant drugs were angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors, antithrombotic agents, and statins and statin combinations. No apparent trends in adverse 
events were in general observed.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 64/81 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In all controlled studies in the Phase 2/3 pool, the rate of treatment discontinuation in the lixisenatide 
group was 9.1% compared with 6.3% in the all-comparators group (placebo + active).  Overall, the 
treatment discontinuation rate in the lixisenatide group was similar to that reported in Phase 3 
placebo-controlled studies. The main AEs which led to treatment discontinuation in the lixisenatide 
group (and that occurred at a higher rate compared to placebo) were nausea (3.1%), vomiting 
(1.2%), dizziness (0.5%), diarrhea (0.4%), hypoglycaemia (0.4%), decreased appetite (0.2%), fatigue 
(0.2%), and asthenia (0.2%). 
Post marketing experience 
N/A 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, 2590 patients have been exposed to lixisenatide 20 micrograms once daily out of which 1233 
have been exposed to lixisenatide once daily for at least 76 weeks. A total of 197 patients were 
exposed for at least 104 weeks. The majority of the patients (55%, N=1827) were exposed to the 
combination of lixisenatide and metformin. The percentage of patients with no background therapy, 
SU+metformin and basal insulin+metformin was 9.3% (N=308), 16.8% (N=556), 7.9% (N=261), 
respectively. The other background medications were approximately 3-4% (N=100-130). Thus, an 
adequate number of patients are exposed for at least 76-104 weeks and the database is in general 
considered sufficient.  
As for other GLP-1 agonists, the most common adverse events reported for lixisenatide are 
gastrointestinal side effects ; e.g. nausea (26%), vomiting (10.5%) and diarrhoea (8.3%).  The 
product information includes a recommendation concerning a gradual up-titration of the dose to reduce 
these symptoms. Gastrointestinal events (i.e. nausea, vomiting) are included in the RMP as important 
identified risks. The incidence is gradually reduced with treatment duration. 
Injection site reactions, decreased appetite, tremor, dyspepsia, and abdominal distension were 
associated with lixisenatide treatment and were also present with a frequency ≥2% for the lixisenatide 
group and >1.5 times the incidence in placebo in the Phase 3 placebo controlled studies. 
In lixisenatide-treated patients the proportion of subjects that developed anti-lixisenatide antibodies 
increased over time up to Week 24 (9.4% at Week 2; 37.3% at Week 4; 57.7% at Week 12 and 
70.7% at Week 24) and then remained stable up to the end of treatment.  The majority of the patients 
(67%) who discontinued were still positive after 3-6 months. The antibody development will be further 
assessed in studies post-approval. 
Patients positive for anti-lixisenatide antibodies were at higher risk for developing injection site 
reactions compared with those without antibodies. This has also been reported for exenatide. There 
were no differences for other adverse events. 
Allergic reactions possibly associated with lixisenatide were reported in 0.4% of lixisenatide patients 
compared with less than 0.1% of placebo patients during the main 24-week treatment period  in phase 
3 studies. Anaphylactic reactions were observed in 8 patients in the lixisenatide group (0.2%) vs none 
in the all-comparator group (0%). A positive allergic history was reported for 3 of the patients. Three 
events were reported in patients with negative antibody status or concentration < LLOQ, 1 in a patient 
with a positive antibody status but no evaluation of antibody concentration, and 3 events were 
reported in patients with antibody concentration> 15.50 nmol/L. Thus, the relation between antibody 
status and allergic reactions is not obvious. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 65/81 
 
 
 
 
Systemic hypersensitivity reactions are included in the RMP as an important identified risk. 
Hypoglycaemia is mainly seen when lixisenatide treatment is combined with SU and/or insulin.  The 
product information states that when lixisenatide is added to SU therapy or insulin a reduction of dose 
of the SU or the basal insulin may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. Also based on 
the finding of increased hypoglycaemic rate when using Lyxumia in combination with SU and insulin,  
the use of lixisenatide in combination with SU and insulin is not recommended. This is reflected in the 
SmPC section 4.4. . Hypoglycaemia [when used with a sulfonylurea (SU) or with a basal insulin] is 
included in the RMP as an important identified risk. 
Potential long term risks 
There is no preclinical or mechanistic rationale to suspect that lixisenatide would increase the risk of 
cardiovascular events. The QT studies do not indicate a QT-prolonging effect.  
There was a higher reported incidence of cardiovascular adverse events in the lixisenatide group 
(6.2%) when compared to the placebo group (4.2%), mainly palpitations and tachycardia.  In the 
QT/QTc study TES11807, a transient increase in heart rate (+7.3 bpm) was noted in healthy 
volunteers.  However, in the phase 3 studies, no mean increase in heart rate was noted.  A propensity 
for heart-rate increase has been reported for other GLP-1 receptor agonists and based on available 
data there is no evidence that the effect is more pronounced for lixisenatide. Information regarding the 
increased heart rate is included in SmPC section 4.8. In addition, more information with regard to CV 
effects will be obtained in the ongoing CV outcome study EFC11319 which is an additional 
pharmacovigilance activity of the RMP. 
A meta-analysis of CV events has been performed by the applicant on the composite CV endpoints in 
phase 3 controlled studies (including the results of studies EFC6017 and EFC10781), using a Cox 
model stratified by study. For major cardiovascular events (MACE; CV death, non-fatal myocardial 
infarction, and stroke) positively adjudicated by CAC, this showed a HR of 1.25 (95% confidence 
interval 0.67-2.35) versus placebo. However, the increase in MACE with the use of lixisenatide was 
driven by a difference in non fatal stroke (0.7% versus 0.4% for placebo). The incidence of other MACE 
endpoints did not differ between lixisenatide and placebo. The long term (176 weeks) cardiovascular 
outcome study (EFC11319; study ELIXA) will evaluate CV outcomes with 20 micrograms QD compared 
to placebo (composite endpoint of CV death, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, hospitalization for unstable 
angina) in type 2 diabetic patients who experienced an acute coronary syndrome event within 180 
days prior to the screening visit. The study was initiated in June 2010 and the planned number of 
patients is 6000. This ongoing study is an additional pharmacovigilance activity of the RMP with an 
expected date of completion in Q4 2014.  
GLP-1 receptor agonists, including lixisenatide, are associated with thyroid C-cell 
proliferative/hyperplasia effects in non-clinical carcinogenicity studies.  In the clinical development 
program there was no indication of trends in the incidences of thyroid neoplasms (benign and 
malignant) in the lixisenatide group in comparison to placebo or the all comparator-group. Monitoring 
of serum calcitonin as a marker of thyroid C-cell neoplasms was implemented in all lixisenatide studies 
longer than 3 months in duration or studies completed prior to 2009. Mean and median calcitonin 
levels remained stable over time and other laboratory assessments did not reveal a clinical safety 
signal for treatment with lixisenatide regarding thyroid tumors. Pancreatic carcinoma was reported by 
3 (<0.1%) lixisenatide patients and 1 (<0.1%) patient in the comparator group. Thus, no trends could 
be observed.  Medullary thyroid cancer and malignant neoplasm are included as important potential 
risks in the RMP and will be followed in ongoing studies and epidemiological studies. Also the SmPC 
section 5.3 includes information on the proliferative effects shown in the non-clinical studies.  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 66/81 
 
 
 
 
Acute pancreatitis has been previously identified as a potential safety issue for the GLP-1 receptor 
agonist class based on cases of acute pancreatitis reported with the use of marketed GLP-1 receptor 
agonists.  The incidence was low in the clinical studies.  However, the duration of treatment is too 
short to properly address the issue. Appropriate information is included in product information. The risk 
for acute pancreatitis is included as an important potential risk in the RMP section and will be further 
investigated post-approval 
The clinical experience in patients > 75 years is very limited which is reflected in the SmPC. 
A very low number of patients with moderate renal impairment (N=28/lixisenatide) were included in 
phase 3 studies. The data is scarce and it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions from the reported 
safety data. Given the signal of a slight increase in adverse events in mild renal impairment and very 
limited clinical experience in moderate renal impairment it is reasonable to recommend use with 
caution in patients with moderate renal impairment. There is no experience in patients with severe 
renal impairment. This is reflected in the SmPC. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Short term safety issues associated with lixisenatide mainly comprise gastrointestinal adverse events 
which are a known class effect for GLP-1 analogues. Hypoglycaemia is reported mainly in combination 
with SU and/or insulin. There was no mean increase in heart rate in the clinical studies but a tendency 
to transient increase in heart rate in the QT study. This has also been reported for other products in 
the class. More information with regard to CV effects will be obtained in the ongoing CV outcome 
study. The proportion of patients developing antibodies was 70% for lixisenatide.  The development of 
antibodies has been associated with a higher incidence of injection site reactions (also seen for other 
products in the class). However, the incidence of allergic reactions possibly associated with lixisenatide 
was low (0.4%) and the anaphylactic reactions reported were mostly low-grade in severity. 
Hypersensitivity reactions will be reviewed and continually adjudicated in ongoing trials. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 67/81 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Important identified risks 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Gastrointestinal events 
i.e. nausea, vomiting 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Labeling 
Systemic 
hypersensitivity 
reactions  
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC12382, EFC12261, 
EFC12626, EFC12703) 
Hypoglycemia [when 
used with a SU or 
basal insulin] 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
SPC Section 
“The most frequently reported adverse reactions during clinical studies were nausea, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea. These reactions were mostly mild and transient.”  
“Nausea,” “vomiting,” and “diarrhoea” are listed in ADR table as very common  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
“Nausea and vomiting were the most frequently reported adverse reactions during the main 
24-week treatment period. The incidence of nausea was higher in the lixisenatide group 
(26.1 %) compared to the placebo group (6.2 %) and the incidence of vomiting was higher 
in the lixisenatide group (10.5 %) than in the placebo group (1.8 %). They were mostly mild 
and transient and occured during the first 3 weeks after starting treatment. Thereafter, they 
progressively decreased during the following weeks.” 
Withdrawal 
 “The most common adverse reactions which led to treatment discontinuation in the 
lixisenatide group were nausea (3.1%) and vomiting (1.2%).” 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
“Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.” 
SPC Section 
“Anaphylactic reaction “ is listed in ADR table as uncommon 
Allergic reactions  
“Allergic reactions possibly associated with lixisenatide (such as anaphylactic reaction, 
angioedema and urticaria) have been reported in 0.4% of lixisenatide patients while 
possibly associated allergic reactions occurred in less than 0.1% of placebo patients during 
the main 24-week treatment period. Anaphylactic reactions were reported in 0.2% of the 
lixisenatide treated patients vs. none in the placebo group. Most of these reported allergic 
reactions were mild in severity.  
One case of anaphylactoid reaction was reported during clinical trials with lixisenatide.” 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
“When Lyxumia is added to existing therapy of a sulphonylurea or a basal insulin, a 
reduction in the dose of the sulphonylurea or the basal insulin may be considered to reduce 
the risk of hypoglycaemia. Lyxumia should not be given in combination with basal insulin 
and a sulphonylurea due to increased risk of hypoglycaemia.” 
“The use of Lyxumia does not require specific blood glucose monitoring. However, when 
used in combination with a sulphonylurea or a basal insulin, blood glucose monitoring or 
blood glucose self- monitoring may become necessary to adjust the doses of the 
sulphonylurea or the basal insulin.” 
SPC Section 
“Patients receiving Lyxumia with a sulphonylurea or with a basal insulin may have an 
increased risk of hypoglycaemia. Reduction of the dose of the sulphonylurea or the basal 
insulin may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. Lyxumia should not be 
given in combination with basal insulin and a sulphonylurea due to increased risk of 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 68/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
hypoglycaemia.” 
SPC Section 
“When used in combination with a sulphonylurea or a basal insulin, patients should be 
advised to take precautions to avoid hypoglycaemia while driving and using machines.” 
SPC Section 
“Hypoglycaemia (in combination with sulphonylurea and / or a basal insulin)” listed in ADR 
table as very common 
“Hypoglycaemia (in combination with metformin alone)” listed in ADR table as common 
Hypoglycaemia  
“In patients taking Lyxumia in monotherapy, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 1.7% 
of lixisenatide treated patients and in 1.6% of placebo treated patients. When Lyxumia is 
used in combination with metformin alone, symptomatic hypoglycemia was common and 
occurred in 7.0% of lixisenatide patients and in 4.8% of placebo patients during the entire 
treatment period.” 
“In patients taking Lyxumia in combination with a sulphonylurea and metformin, 
symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 22.0% of lixisenatide treated patients and in 18.4% 
of placebo treated patients during the entire period (3.6% absolute difference). When 
Lyxumia is used in combination with a basal insulin with or without metformin, symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia occurred in 42.1% of lixisenatide patients and in 38.9% of placebo patients 
during the entire treatment period (3.2% absolute difference).” 
“During the entire treatment period, when Lyxumia was given with a sulphonylurea alone, 
symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 22.7% of lixisenatide treated patients versus 
15.2% with placebo (7.5% absolute difference). When Lyxumia was given with a 
sulphonylurea and a basal insulin, symptomatic hypoglycaemia occurred in 47.2% of 
lixisenatide treated patients compared to 21.6% with placebo (25.6% absolute difference).” 
“Overall, the incidence of severe symptomatic hypoglycaemia was uncommon (0.4% in 
lixisenatide patients and 0.2% in placebo patients) during the entire treatment period of the 
Phase III placebo-controlled studies.” 
Important potential risks 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 69/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Cardiovascular events 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
A cardiovascular study 
(EFC11319/ELIXA) is 
ongoing to further assess 
cardiovascular outcomes 
in the population of T2DM 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing clinical trial 
(EFC11321) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
Heart rate 
“In a study in healthy volunteers, a transient rise in heart rate has been observed after 
administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg. Cardiac arrhythmias particularly tachycardia (0.8% vs 
<0.1%) and palpitations (1.5% vs 0.8%) have been reported in lixisenatide patients 
compared to placebo treated patients.” 
SPC Section 
Cardiovascular evaluation 
“No increase in mean heart rate in patients with type 2 diabetes was seen in all placebo-
controlled phase III studies. 
Mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure reductions up to 2.1 mmHg and up to 1.5 mmHg 
respectively were observed in phase III placebo-controlled studies. 
A meta-analysis of all independently adjudicated cardiovascular events (CV death, non-fatal 
myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina, hospitalization for 
heart failure and coronary revascularization procedure) from 8 phase III placebo-controlled 
studies which included 2673 type 2 diabetes patients treated with lixisenatide and 1448 
patients treated with placebo showed a hazard ratio of 1.03 (95% confidence interval 0.64, 
1.66) for lixisenatide versus placebo. The number of events in the clinical studies was low 
(1.9% in lixisenatide treated patients and 1.8% in placebo treated patients), precluding firm 
conclusions. The incidence of the individual CV events (lixisenatide vs placebo) was: CV 
death (0.3% vs 0.3%), non-fatal myocardial infarction (0.4% vs 0.4%), non-fatal stroke 
(0.7% vs 0.4%), hospitalization for unstable angina (zero vs 0.1%), hospitalization for heart 
failure (0.1% vs zero), and coronary revascularization procedure (0.7% vs 1.0%).”  
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 70/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
“Use of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists has been associated with a risk 
of developing acute pancreatitis. Patients should be informed of the characteristic 
symptoms of acute pancreatitis: persistent, severe abdominal pain. If pancreatitis is 
suspected, lixisenatide should be discontinued; if acute pancreatitis is confirmed, 
lixisenatide should not be restarted. Caution should be exercised in patients with a history of 
pancreatitis.” 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
“In 2-year subcutaneous carcinogenicity studies, non-lethal C-cell thyroid tumors were seen 
in rats and mice and are considered to be caused by a non-genotoxic GLP 1 receptor-
mediated mechanism to which rodents are particularly sensitive. C-cell hyperplasia and 
adenoma were seen at all doses in rats and a no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) 
could be not defined. In mice, these effects occurred at exposure ratio above 9.3-fold when 
compared to human exposure at the therapeutic dose. No C-cell carcinoma was observed 
in mice and C cell carcinoma occurred in rats with an exposure ratio relative to exposure at 
human therapeutic dose of about 900-fold. ” 
See medullary thyroid cancer above 
Safety concern 
Acute pancreatitis 
Medullary thyroid 
cancer 
Malignant neoplasm 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC11321, EFC12382, 
EFC12261, EFC12626) 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
program proposed:  
- 
- 
a retrospective 
database study 
to estimate the 
incidence rates 
of acute 
pancreatitis, 
pancreatic and 
thyroid cancer 
among T2DM 
patients treated 
by GLP-1 
receptor agonists 
vs other 
antidiabetics 
a patient registry 
to monitor the 
occurrences of 
the same events 
in lixisenatide-
treated patients 
after launch 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC11321) 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
program (see acute 
pancreatitis above)  
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC11321) 
Pharmacoepidemiology 
program for pancreatic 
cancer (see acute 
pancreatitis above) 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 71/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Immunogenicity / 
Neutralization 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Special attention in PSURs 
Anti-lixisenatide antibodies 
further analyzed in ongoing 
clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC11321, EFC12382) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
Immunogenicity  
“Consistent with the potentially immunogenic properties of medicinal products containing 
proteins or peptides, patients may develop anti-lixisenatide antibodies following treatment 
with Lyxumia and, at the end of the main 24-week treatment period in placebo-controlled 
studies, 69.8 % of lixisenatide patients had a positive antibody status. The percentage of 
patients who were antibody positive was similar at the end of the entire 76-week treatment 
period. At the end of the main 24-week treatment period, 32.2% of the patients having a 
positive antibody status had an antibody concentration above the lower limit of 
quantification, and at the end of the entire 76-week treatment period, 44.7% of the patients 
had an antibody concentration above the lower limit of quantification. After stopping the 
treatment, few antibody positive patients were followed-up for antibody status; the 
percentage decreased to approximately 90% within 3 months and 30% at 6 months or 
beyond. 
The change in HbA1c from baseline was similar regardless of the antibody status (positive 
or negative). Of lixisenatide-treated patients with HBA1c measurement, 79.3% had either a 
negative antibody status or an antibody concentration below the lower limit of quantification 
and the other 20.7% of patients had a quantified antibody concentration.  In the subset of 
patients (5.2%) with the highest antibody concentrations, the mean improvement in HbA1c 
at Week 24 and at Week 76 was in a clinically relevant range; however there was variability 
in the glycaemic response and 1.9% had no decrease in HbA1c.  
The antibody status (positive or negative) is not predictive of the reduction of HbA1c for an 
individual patient. 
There was no difference in the overall safety profile in patients regardless of the antibody 
status with the exception of an increase of the incidence of injection site reactions (4.7% in 
antibody positive patients compared to 2.5% in antibody negative patients during the entire 
treatment period). The majority of injection site reactions were mild, regardless of antibody 
status. 
There was no cross-reactivity versus either native glucagon or endogenous  
GLP-1.” 
Dehydration / Acute 
renal impairment 
Off-label use in non-
T2DM for weight loss 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Labeling 
SPC Section 
“Patients treated with Lyxumia should be advised of the potential risk of dehydration in 
relation to gastrointestinal adverse reactions and take precautions to avoid fluid depletion.” 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Lyxumia will be made available by prescription only. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 72/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Teratogenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Labeling 
SPC Section 
Women of childbearing potential 
“Lyxumia is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not using contraception.” 
Pregnancy 
“There are no adequate data from the use of Lyxumia in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity. The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Lyxumia should not be used during pregnancy. The use of insulin is recommended instead. 
If a patient wishes to become pregnant, or pregnancy occurs, treatment with Lyxumia 
should be discontinued.” 
SPC Section  
“Animal studies did not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to male and female 
fertility in rats.” 
“In embryo-foetal development studies, malformations, growth retardation, ossification 
retardation and skeletal effects were observed in rats at all doses (5-fold exposure ratio 
compared to human exposure) and in rabbits at high doses (32-fold exposure ratio 
compared to human exposure) of lixisenatide. In both species, there was a slight maternal 
toxicity consisting of low food consumption and reduced body weight. Neonatal growth was 
reduced in male rats exposed to high doses of lixisenatide during late gestation and 
lactation, with a slightly increased pup mortality observed.” 
Important missing information 
Use in pregnant 
women 
Routine pharmacovigilance  See above for teratogenicity 
Use in lactating women  Routine pharmacovigilance  Labeling 
Use in children and 
adolescents <18 years  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Additional activities: 
paediatric development 
consisting of 2 clinical 
studies in children ≥10 
years in line with the 
Paediatric Investigational 
Plan agreed by the EMA 
SPC Section 
Breast-feeding 
“It is unknown if Lyxumia is excreted in human milk. Lyxumia should not be used during 
breast-feeding.” 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
Paediatric population 
“The safety and efficacy of lixisenatide in children and adolescents less than 18 years of 
age have not yet been established. No data are available.”  
SPC Section 
Paediatric population  
“The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of 
studies with Lyxumia in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.” 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 73/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Use in very elderly 
(≥75 years) 
Use in patients with 
moderate and severe 
renal impairment (with 
and without low body 
weight) 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
An elderly study is planned 
(EFC12703) 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC12382, EFC12261, 
EFC12626) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Special attention in PSURs 
Further evaluation in 
ongoing and planned 
clinical trials 
(EFC11319/ELIXA, 
EFC12382, EFC12261, 
EFC12626, EFC12703) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
“No dose adjustment is required based on age. The clinical experience in patients ≥ 75 
years is limited.” 
SPC Section 
“Age has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of lixisenatide. 
In a pharmacokinetic study in elderly non-diabetic subjects, administration of lixisenatide 20 
mcg resulted in a mean increase of lixisenatide AUC by 29 % in the elderly population (11 
subjects aged 65 to 74 years and 7 subjects aged ≥75 years) compared to 18 subjects 
aged 18 to 45 years, likely related to reduced renal function in the older age group.” 
Labeling 
SPC Section 
Patients with renal impairment 
“No dose adjustment is required for patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance: 50-80 mL/min).  
There is limited therapeutic experience in patients with moderate renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance: 30-50 mL/min) and Lyxumia should be used with caution in this 
population. 
There is no therapeutic experience in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance less than 30 mL/min) or end-stage renal disease and therefore, it is not 
recommended to use Lyxumia in these populations.” 
SPC Section 
Renal impairment 
“There is limited therapeutic experience in patients with moderate renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance: 30-50 ml/min) and no therapeutic experience in patients with severe 
renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease. 
Lyxumia should be used with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment. Use is not 
recommended in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease.” 
SPC Section 
Patients with renal impairment 
“There were no relevant differences in mean Cmax and AUC of lixisenatide between subjects 
with normal renal function and subjects with mild impaired renal function (creatinine 
clearance calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault formula 50-80 ml/min). In subjects with 
moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 ml/min) AUC was increased by 24% 
and in subjects with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15-30 ml/min) AUC was 
increased by 46%. ” 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Description 
Long term Clinical Trial (EFC11319/ELIXA) 
Due date 
Final study 
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate cardiovascular outcomes with 
report 31 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 74/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
lixisenatide compared to placebo (composite endpoint of cardiovascular (CV) 
December 
death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), non-fatal stroke, hospitalization for 
2014 
unstable angina) in T2DM patients who experienced an acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS) event, within 180 days prior to the screening visit 
Study EFC11321 (Efficacy and safety of lixisenatide in patients with type 2 diabetes 
Final study 
mellitus insufficiently controlled by metformin (with or without sulfonylurea): a 
report to be 
multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled study 
submitted 
with 24-week treatment period) 
within 1 month 
Assessment of lixisenatide safety and tolerability and of anti-lixisenatide antibody 
of Commission 
development are part of the secondary objectives of the study 
Study EFC12261(24-week, open-label, randomized, 2-arm parallel group, 
multinational, multicenter clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of 
Decision  
Final study 
report 31 
lixisenatide injected prior to the main meal of the day versus lixisenatide injected 
December 
prior to breakfast in type 2 diabetic patients not adequately controlled on 
2013 
metformin) 
Assessment of safety and tolerability of both lixisenatide regimens are part of the 
secondary objectives of the study.  
Study EFC12382 (A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm parallel-
Final study 
group, multicenter study with a 24-week treatment period assessing the efficacy 
report 31 
and safety of lixisenatide in patients with type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled 
December 
with basal insulin with or without metformin) 
2015 
Assessment of lixisenatide safety and tolerability and of anti-lixisenatide antibody 
development are part of the secondary objectives of the study. 
Study EFC12626 (A randomized, open-label, active-controlled, 3-arm parallel-
group, 26-week study comparing the efficacy and safety of lixisenatide to that of 
insulin glulisine once daily (Basal Plus regimen) and insulin glulisine three times 
Final study 
report 31 
March 2015 
daily (Basal Bolus regimen) in patients with type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled 
with insulin glargine with or without metformin) 
Assessment of safety and tolerability of both lixisenatide regimens are part of the 
secondary objectives of the study, in particular on: incidence and events rates of 
documented (PG <60 mg/dl) symptomatic hypoglycemia and severe hypoglycemia. 
Study EFC12703 (A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-arm parallel-
Study protocol 
group, multicenter, 24-week study assessing the safety and efficacy of lixisenatide 
to be submitted 
in older patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on their current 
within 3 
diabetes treatment regimen). 
months of 
The objectives of this study are to collect additional safety and efficacy data in 
Commission 
patients of 70 years of age or older. 
Decision, Final 
study results 
30 June 2015 
A retrospective database study using the existing databases and registries in 
Study protocols 
Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. 
to be submitted 
Primary objective: to estimate the incidence rates of acute pancreatitis, pancreatic 
within 6 
and thyroid cancer among adult T2DM patients treated with GLP-1 receptor 
months of 
agonists (i.e., exenatide & liraglutide) versus the ones treated with other anti-
Commission 
diabetics 
Decision, 
Secondary objective: to evaluate the potential association between acute 
together with 
pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer and thyroid cancer, in particular medullary 
proposed 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 75/81 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
carcinoma of the thyroid and the use of treated with GLP-1 receptor agonists 
timelines. 
versus other anti-diabetics among adult T2DM patients. 
A patient registry including adult T2DM patients treated with lixisenatide after 
Study protocols 
launch in Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. 
to be submitted 
To monitor the occurrences of events of interest including acute pancreatitis, 
within 6 
pancreatic and thyroid cancer among adult T2DM patients treated with lixisenatide 
months of 
after launch 
Commission 
Decision, 
together with 
proposed 
timelines. 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Patients with type 2 diabetes are at increased risk of macro- and microvascular complications including 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. A major purpose of using antidiabetic agents is to reduce these 
risks. HbA1c is generally accepted as surrogate marker for treatment effect and was included as the 
primary endpoint in the pivotal studies. Other important endpoints in studies of patients with type 2 
diabetes, such as changes in body weight and fasting glucose, were included as secondary endpoints. 
A study to estimate the effect size of lixisenatide as monotherapy showed a placebo-adjusted reduction 
of HbA1c of approximately 0.6% after 12 weeks treatment. The mean change in body weight was very 
similar in the placebo and the active group (approx. 2 kg reduction). 
In the two placebo-controlled add-on to metformin studies, treatment with lixisenatide resulted in 
statistically significant reductions in HbA1c compared to placebo ranging from 0.37 to 0.49 %. Mean 
reductions in body weight were small and the difference compared to placebo was statistically 
significant in one of the two studies.  
The results in study EFC6017, in which lixisenatide was added to pioglitazone +/- metformin, showed a 
similar placebo-corrected reduction of HbA1c of -0.56%. 
As add on to SU, or SU+metformin, the mean placebo corrected reduction of HbA1c was 0.74 %.  
Mean reduction in body weight was 1.7 kg in the lixisenatide group. The difference compared to 
placebo was statistically significant.  
Two studies examined the additive effect of lixisenatide when added to ongoing insulin treatment with 
or without metformin (EFC6016) or SU (EFC10887). In study EFC6016, the placebo-corrected 
reduction of HbA1c (-0.36%) was statistically significant. Mean body weight was reduced by 1.80  kg in 
the lixisenatide group. Study EFC10887 was entirely performed in Asia and in this study the placebo 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 76/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adjusted reduction in HbA1c was 0.88%, but the effect on body weight was very limited. The insulin 
doses in these studies did not change much in the placebo or lixisenatide groups (in accordance with 
study designs). During the procedure, results from an additional study (EFC 10781) were submitted in 
which lixisenatide was added to insulin glargine and OAD. The benefit (with respect to HbA1c) of 
adding lixisenatide in comparison to up-titration of the insulin glargine dose in study EFC10781 was -
0.32%. The benefit with respect to body weight was a -0.9 kg difference compared to placebo. 
In the active controlled study EFC6019, the reduction of HbA1c with exenatide was 0.96% compared to 
0.79% with lixisenatide (mean difference 0.17%, upper 95% CI of 0.297% in the pre-defined mITT 
population and 0.315% in the completer population).  The reduction in body weight for exenatide and 
lixisenatide were -3.98 kg and -2.96 kg, respectively.  
The glucose-lowering effect of lixisenatide was in general maintained in patients who continued into 
the extension phases of the studies.  
The effect of lixisenatide on plasma glucose parameters was significantly larger compared to placebo in 
all studies. In one phase 2 study, lixisenatide was more effective than liraglutide in lowering post 
prandial glucose after 28 days of treatment.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The results of the phase 3 studies show a difference in glucose lowering effect between Asian and 
Caucasian patients, with larger reductions of HbA1c in Asian patients (e.g. study EFC6015 and 
EFC10887). This was further examined in the phase 2 study PDY6797. Also in this study, the effect of 
lixisenatide was more pronounced in Japanese patients compared to Caucasians and the treatment-by-
ethnicity interaction test was statistically significant. This may be explained by the fact that Japanese 
patients had a lower BMI and higher insulin sensitivity at baseline. Japanese patients also had higher 
concentrations of lixisenatide which in turn was likely due to the lower mean body weight. The lower 
effect in Caucasians is partly explained by a large placebo effect especially in some geographical 
regions. In further analyses of patients recruited in Western and Eastern Europe, the mean placebo 
corrected effect was a reduction of HbA1c of about 0.5 % and a weight reduction of about 1kg. 
The assessment of the effect of lixisenatide as add on to insulin (with and without metformin) was 
hampered by the large placebo effect in two of the submitted studies. Based on subgroup analyses of 
patients who could be expected to be adherent to background therapy, a reduction of HbA1c of 0.5-
0.6% compared to placebo was considered as plausible which is of clinical relevance. Further, 
responder rates showed an additive effect compared to placebo.  
The number of patients above the age of 75 or with moderate and severe renal impairment is very 
limited.  
Pooled analyses of anti-lixisenatide antibody status showed that at the end of the main treatment 
period (Week 24), 69.4% of evaluable patients were assessed as antibody-positive.  For those with the 
highest  antibody concentrations, the mean HbA1c reducing effect was attenuated.  However, overall, 
no correlation between antibody concentration categories and change in HbA1c was seen and therefore 
antibody status cannot be used as a predictor of  the glucose lowering effect of lixisenatide. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The most common short-term safety issue are gastrointestinal side effects. Nausea (26%) and 
vomiting (10.5%) and diarrhoea (8.3%) were mostly mild to moderate in intensity and new events 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 77/81 
 
 
 
 
peaked within the first 3 weeks and thereafter decreased.  Approximately 70-80% of the patients 
experiencing nausea and/or vomiting completed the treatment. The labelling includes a 
recommendation concerning a gradual up-titration of the dose to reduce these symptoms. In the active 
controlled study versus exenatide (EFC6019), the incidence rate of nausea was 24.5%  in the 
lixisenatide groupcompared to 35.1% for exenatide. 
In all controlled studies in the Phase 2/3 pool, the incidence of injection site reaction was 5.3% in the 
lixisenatide group and 1.9% in the all comparator group (placebo + active). In the main treatment 
period of the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of injection site reaction was 3.9% in 
the lixisenatide group and 1.4% in the placebo group. In the comparative study with exenatide, the 
incidence of injection site reactions was 9.1 and 2.2% for lixisenatide and exenatide, respectively. 
For the lixisenatide treated patients, approximately 70 % had a positive antibody status at the end of 
the main 24-week treatment period and throughout the entire 76-week treatment period in placebo-
controlled studies. After stopping the treatment, antibody concentration decreased over time. 
However, the majority of the patients (67%) who discontinued were still positive after 3-6 months. 
Patients positive for anti-lixisenatide antibodies were at higher risk for developing injection site 
reactions compared with those without antibodies. There were no differences for other adverse events. 
Allergic reactions possibly associated with lixisenatide were reported in 0.4% of lixisenatide patients 
compared with less than 0.1% of placebo patients during the main 24-week treatment period  in phase 
3 studies. Anaphylactic reaction was observed in 8 patients in the lixisenatide group (0.2%) vs none in 
the all-comparator group (0%). A positive allergic history was reported for 3 of the patients. Three 
events were reported in patients with negative antibody status or concentration < LLOQ, 1 in a patient 
with a positive antibody status but no evaluation of antibody concentration, and 3 events were 
reported in patients with antibody concentration > 15.50 nmol/L.  
Hypoglycaemia is mainly seen when lixisenatide treatment is combined with SU and/or insulin. The 
product information states that when lixisenatide is added to SU therapy or basal insulin a reduction of 
dose of the SU or the basal insulin may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. The 
hypoglycaemia rate in combination with sulfonylurea and insulin is more than doubled compared to 
placebo.The use of lixisenatide in this triple combination is advised against in section 4.2 of the SmPC 
and a warning to that regard is included in section 4.4.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The meta-analysis of CV events (MACE; CV death, non fatal myocardial infarction and stroke) resulted 
in a point estimate above one (HR 1.25, 95% confidence interval 0.67-2.35). However, the cases were 
very few and the difference did not reach statistical significance which is a limitation of these results. 
The increase in MACE was driven by a difference in non fatal stroke (0.7% versus 0.4% for placebo). 
The incidence of other MACE endpoints did not differ between lixisenatide and placebo.  
Lixisenatide treatment was associated with a higher incidence of palpitations compared to placebo 
(1.5% vs 0.6% for placebo) as well as  tachycardia (0.7% vs <0.1% for placebo). In addition, 
supraventricular arrhythmias (1.1% versus 0.7%) and cardiac conduction disorders (0.6% versus 
0.1%) were increased for lixisenatide treated patients compared to placebo patients. There is no 
indication of QT prolongation in study TES11807, although an increased heart rate (+7.3 bpm) 
approximately 1 hour after dosing was seen in the QT study in healthy volunteers, an observation 
made also with other products of the same class. In the phase 3 studies no mean increase in heart 
rate or blood pressure was noted. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 78/81 
 
 
 
 
Due to potential signals of hypospermatogenesis identified from toxicology studies in dogs, the 
potential for similar changes with lixisenatide in healthy humans was investigated in Study TDR11215. 
The results for the primary endpoint did not indicate a statistically significant difference compared to 
placebo with respect to proportion of subjects with at least 50% reduction in sperm concentration. The 
data provided for the other important secondary endpoints sperm parameters, i.e. sperm count, sperm 
motility and sperm morphology, were reassuring.  
A very low number of patients with moderate renal impairment were included in phase 3 studies. The 
data is scarce and it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions from the reported safety data. Given the 
signal of a slight increase in adverse events in mild renal impairment and very limited clinical 
experience in moderate renal impairment, the SmPC recommends use with caution in patients with 
moderate renal impairment. There is no therapeutic experience in patients with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min) or end-stage renal disease and therefore in the 
SmPC  it is not recommended to use lixisenatide in these populations. 
As for other GLP 1 agonists, the clinical relevance of the thyroid C cell tumours in rats cannot be 
excluded. In the clinical development program there is no indication of trends in the incidences of 
thyroid neoplasms. This will be followed in post authorisation studies. 
Pancreatic carcinoma was reported by 3 (<0.1%) lixisenatide patients and 1 (<0.1%) patient in the 
comparator group. Thus, no trends could be observed.  
In the developmental toxicity studies there were a number of malformations and a relation to 
treatment cannot be excluded, and therefore, as a precaution, lixisenatide is not recommended in 
women of child bearing potential not using contraception in the SmPC. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Treatment with lixisenatide as add on to other glucose lowering therapies resulted in absolute 
reductions in HbA1c of -0.74 to - 0.92% (12-24 weeks of treatment). The placebo adjusted reductions 
ranged from -0.36 to -0.88% thus demonstrating improved glycaemic control. This magnitude of 
glucose lowering effect is considered as clinically relevant and is expected to reduce the risk of micro- 
(and potentially macro-) vascular complications.  The mean difference in body weight compared to 
placebo was approximately 1 kg. In the diabetic population, reduction of body weight is always of 
clinical relevance and advantageous compared to the increase in weight with some other therapeutic 
options. 
Concerning non-inferiority compared to exenatide, this has not been robustly shown with respect to 
reduction of HbA1c and weight reduction. However, there are benefits compared to exenatide such as 
once daily dosing and a lower incidence of nausea and hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a possibly lower 
effect is considered as acceptable, especially considering that the reduction of HbA1c with lixisenatide 
in the comparative study was of clear clinical relevance (-0.79% reduction) as was the reduction of 
body weight (-2.8 kg). 
With regard to safety, as for other GLP-1 analogues, gastrointestinal adverse events are most 
common. The incidence declines with time and rarely leads to treatment discontinuation. 
The meta-analysis of major cardiovascular events (MACE) resulted in a HR of 1.25 (95% confidence 
interval 0.67-2.35).  However, the cases were very few and the difference did not reach statistical 
significance which is a limitation of these results. The increase in MACE was driven by a difference in 
non fatal stroke while the incidence of other MACE endpoints did not differ between lixisenatide and 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 79/81 
 
 
 
 
placebo. Therefore, the available data is not considered to show an increased risk of MACE associated 
with lixisenatide. 
The slightly increased incidence of palpitations and tachycardia compared to placebo as well as the 
findings of a transient increase in heart rate in healthy volunteers indicate a propensity of lixisenatide 
to increase heart rate. However, there was no mean increase in heart rate in the clinical studies and no 
increase in blood pressure. Further, not only lixisenatide but also other GLP-1 receptor agonists have 
been associated with a trend to increased heart rate and based on available data, there is no indication 
that the effect is more pronounced with lixisenatide compared to other products in the class. More 
information with regard to CV effects will be obtained in the ongoing CV outcome study (long term 
clinical trial EFC11319/ELIXA).  
The proportion of patients developing antibodies to lixisenatide was high. However, the only adverse 
events being more common in patients with antibodies are injection site reactions, an association 
which has also been reported for other products in the class. Further, the incidence of allergic reactions 
possibly associated with lixisenatide was low (0.4%) and the anaphylactic reactions reported were 
mostly low grade in severity. Hypersensitivity reactions are continued to be reviewed and adjudicated 
in ongoing trials. 
Due to findings in the developmental toxicity studies, a teratogenic potential of lixisenatide cannot 
totally be excluded. Maternal effects on body weight and food consumption can result in foetal effects 
which have been shown with other members of the class. Given that such effects on body weight and 
food consumption are not observed clinically, the relevance for humans would be minimal. However, 
the applicant has not been able to demonstrate that the malformations in the lixisenatide studies are 
completely explained by such maternal effects. Therefore, as a precaution, lixisenatide is not 
recommended in women of child bearing potential not using contraception.  The SmPC contains this 
information accordingly, and teratogenicity is included as a potential risk in the RMP. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The absolute glucose-lowering effect of lixisenatide with a weight reducing effect at the same time is 
considered to be a clinical relevant benefit. The safety profile is largely similar to other products in the 
class with gastrointestinal adverse events being most common. There are potential risks associated 
with a propensity to induce increased heart rate, pancreatitis and allergic reactions, which will be 
followed in post marketing studies, as well as uncertainties with respect to embryofoetal toxicity, which 
is managed by the restriction that Lyxumia is not recommended in women of childbearing potential not 
using contraception. These risks are considered to be outweighed by the shown benefits.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The B/R of Lyxumia is considered positive. 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Lyxumia in the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to 
achieve glycaemic control with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products and/or basal insulin when 
these, together with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control, is favourable and 
therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 80/81 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
  Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
 
The MAH shall perform the required  pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed  subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP shall be submitted annually until renewal. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the 
same time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
- At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
- Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that lixisenatide is qualified as a new active substance. 
Lyxumia 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 81/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
