EMA/439670/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002445 
EPAR summary for the public 
Lyxumia 
lixisenatide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Lyxumia. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Lyxumia. 
What is Lyxumia? 
Lyxumia is a diabetes medicine that contains the active substance lixisenatide. It is available as a 
solution for injection in a pre-filled pen that provides either 10 micrograms or 20 micrograms of 
lixisenatide in each dose. 
What is Lyxumia used for? 
Lyxumia is used in adults who have type 2 diabetes to control their blood glucose (sugar) level. It is 
used together with diabetes medicines taken by mouth and/or basal insulin (long-acting insulin) in 
patients whose blood glucose levels are not adequately controlled by these medicines together with 
diet and exercise.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Lyxumia used? 
Lyxumia is injected once a day, in the hour before the same meal every day. It is given as an injection 
under the skin in the abdominal wall (at the front of the waist), upper arm or thigh. Lyxumia is started 
at a dose of 10 micrograms once a day which is increased to 20 micrograms once a day after 14 days. 
If the patient is already taking a sulphonylurea (another diabetes medicine) or basal insulin, the doctor 
may need to reduce the dose of the sulphonylurea or basal insulin because there is a risk of 
hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels). Adding Lyxumia to metformin is not associated with this risk. 
Lyxumia should not be given with a combination of both, basal insulin and a sulphonylurea. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Lyxumia work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Lyxumia, lixisenatide, is a ‘GLP-1 receptor agonist’. It works by attaching to glucagon-like peptide 1 
(GLP-1) receptors that are found on the surface of the cells in the pancreas and that cause the 
production of insulin by the pancreas. When Lyxumia is injected, lixisenatide reaches the receptors in 
the pancreas and activates them. This causes the release of insulin and helps to reduce blood glucose 
levels and control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Lyxumia been studied? 
Lyxumia has been studied in seven main studies involving 3,825 adults with type 2 diabetes. Six of the 
studies compared Lyxumia with placebo (a dummy treatment), used alone or when added to 
metformin, a sulphonylurea, basal insulin, or a combination of two of these medicines, in patients in 
whom previous treatment had failed. In one study, Lyxumia was compared with another diabetes 
medicine called exenatide when added to metformin in patients whose blood sugar levels were not 
adequately controlled by metformin. 
All of the studies measured the change in the level of glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which is the 
percentage of haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached. HbA1c gives an indication of how 
well the blood glucose is controlled. HbA1c levels were measured after 12 weeks when Lyxumia was 
used alone and after 24 weeks when it was used in combination with other diabetes medicines. 
What benefit has Lyxumia shown during the studies? 
Lyxumia was more effective than placebo at controlling blood glucose. When used on its own, Lyxumia 
reduced Hb1Ac levels by 0.6% more than placebo. When used in combination with other diabetes 
medicines, Lyxumia reduced Hb1Ac levels by 0.4 up to 0.9% more than placebo. 
The study comparing Lyxumia with exenatide (added to metformin) showed reduced HbA1c levels by 
0.79% after 24 weeks treatment with Lyxumia compared to 0.96% with exenatide twice daily. 
What is the risk associated with Lyxumia? 
The most common side effects with Lyxumia (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea (feeling 
sick), vomiting, diarrhoea and headache. These side effects were mostly mild and usually resolved over 
time. When used together with a sulphonylurea or basal insulin, the most common side effect (seen in 
more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels). Allergic reactions have been 
reported in less than 1 in 100 patients using Lyxumia. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Lyxumia, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Lyxumia been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Lyxumia was shown to be effective at lowering blood glucose levels in 
patients with type 2 diabetes, when given alone or in combination with other diabetes medicines. In 
addition, beneficial weight loss was seen in patients treated with Lyxumia. Regarding its safety, most 
side effects are comparable to those of other similar diabetes medicines with side effects affecting the 
gut being the most common ones. The CHMP concluded that the benefits of Lyxumia outweigh its risks 
and recommended that it be granted marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lyxumia? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Lyxumia is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Lyxumia, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Lyxumia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Lyxumia on 1 February 2013.  
The full EPAR for Lyxumia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Lyxumia, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2014.  
