European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
M-M-RVAXPRO  is  a  trivalent  vaccine  containing  the  components  of  M-M-RII  (more  attenuated 
vaccine  strain  of  measles  virus  (derived  from  Enders’  attenuated  Edmonston  strain),  the  Jeryl  Lynn 
strain of mumps virus, the Wistar RA 27/3 strain of live attenuated rubella virus). The only difference 
between M-M-RII and M-M-RVAXPRO resides in the replacement of human serum albumin (HSA) 
in M-M-R II with recombinant human albumin (rHA) during the manufacturing of measles, mumps, 
and  rubella  viral  bulks.  The  rHA  approved  for  use  in  the  manufacture  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  is 
Recombumin,  a  proprietary  product  manufactured  by  Delta  Biotechnology  Limited,  UK,  produced 
without  the  use  of  animal  derived  materials.  The  application  for  M-M-RVAXPRO  also  aims  at 
harmonising  the  expiry  titer  for  the  mumps  component  of  this  combination  vaccine  to  4.1  log10 
TCID50/dose  and  harmonising  the  prescribing  information  across  the  EU.  M-M-RVAXPRO  is 
indicated  for  simultaneous  vaccination  against  measles,  mumps  and  rubella  in  individuals  from  12 
months of age. 
Measles  (rubeola)  is  caused  by  a  paramyxovirus  of  the  genus  Morbillivirus  and  is  transmitted  from 
person  to  person  via  aerosolized  or  large  respiratory  infectious  droplets.  The  clinical  presentation 
consists  of  prodromal  fever,  conjunctivitis,  coryza,  and  cough.  In  some  cases,  Koplik  spots  (an 
erythema with white spots in the buccal mucosa) can be observed. Subsequently, a maculopapular rash 
usually appears, spreads from the head to the entire body, and fades within 4 to 7 days. Measles can 
result in otitis media, pneumonia, encephalitis and death. 
Mumps is caused by a paramyxovirus of the genus Rubulavirus and is spread by direct contact via the 
respiratory route. The clinical presentation is characterized by swelling of one or more salivary glands 
(usually the parotid glands) and may be preceded by several days of non-specific symptoms, including 
fever,  lymphadenopathy,  headache,  malaise,  myalgias,  and  anorexia.  Mumps  can  result  in  deafness, 
orchitis, pancreatitis, meningitis, encephalitis and death. 
Rubella is caused by a togavirus of the genus Rubivirus and is spread via infectious droplets shed from 
the  respiratory  secretions  of  infected  persons  to  susceptible  individuals.  The  clinical  presentation  is 
characterized  by  nonspecific  signs  and  symptoms  including  transient  erythematous  and  sometimes 
pruritic rash, postauricular or suboccipital lymphadenopathy, and low-grade fever. The most important 
consequences  of  rubella  are  the  miscarriages,  stillbirths,  fetal  anomalies,  and  therapeutic  abortions, 
associated with Congenital Rubella Syndrome (CRS) that result when rubella infection occurs during 
early pregnancy. Anomalies associated with CRS include sensorineural deafness, cataracts, glaucoma, 
and  other  ophthalmic  disorders,  cardiac  defects,  microcephaly,  meningoencephalitis  and  mental 
retardation. 
1.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder and solvent for suspension for subcutaneous injection in 
a  single  0.5  ml  dose.  The  lyophilised  vaccine  must  be  stored  in  the  refrigerator.  The  lyophilised 
powder is presented in a vial (Type 1 glass) with a butyl rubber stopper and flip-off aluminium seal. 
The finished product contains the following excipients: sucrose, hydrolysed gelatin (porcine), sorbitol, 
monosodium  glutamate,  sodium  phosphate,  sodium  bicarbonate,  potassium  phosphate,  Medium  199 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  Hanks’  Salts,  Minimum  Essential  Medium  Eagle  (MEM),  neomycin,  phenol  red,  hydrochloric 
acid and sodium hydroxide (pH adjustment). 
Before use, each vial is to be reconstituted with water for injections supplied in either a vial (Type 1 
glass) with a butyl rubber stopper or in a prefilled syringe (Type 1 glass) with plunger stopper and tip 
cap (chlorobutyl rubber), with or without needle(s). 
After reconstitution, one dose (0.5 ml) contains: 
Measles virus1 Enders’ Edmonston strain (live, attenuated) ..................not less than 1x103 TCID
* 
Mumps virus1 Jeryl Lynn™ (Level B) strain (live, attenuated) .............not less than 12.5x103 TCID
Rubella virus2 Wistar RA 27/3 strain (live, attenuated) .........................not less than 1x103 TCID
50
50
50
* 50% tissue culture infectious dose 
(1) Produced in chick embryo cells. 
(2) Produced in WI-38 human diploid lung fibroblasts. 
The product also contains traces of rHA, used in the bulk manufacturing process of the vaccine. 
Active substance - measles 
• 
Manufacture 
Seed lot system 
The  Enders'  Edmonston  strain  of  measles  virus  was  isolated  in  primary  human  kidney  cell  tissue 
culture from the blood of a child (Edmonston) in the early acute phase of measles. The virus (10 ml) 
was received by Merck from Dr. John Enders at the Children’s Hospital of Harvard Medical School in 
1960.  Further  passages  were  performed  at  Merck  to  develop  the  Moraten  (more  attenuated  Enders) 
strain that served as a pre-master seed from which the Master Seed was derived. The preparation of the 
Master Seed and the Stock Seed is appropriately described in the dossier. 
Chicken embryo cells (CEC) as cell substrate 
Chick  embryo  cells,  the  cell  substrate  for  measles  and  mumps  virus  propagation,  are  sourced  from 
eggs  from  a  specific-pathogen-free  (SPF)  chicken  flock.  Embryos  are  removed  from  the  eggs, 
dissociated with trypsin, clarified and centrifuged prior to virus infection. 
Manufacture of measles harvested virus fluids (HVFs) 
A virus propagator, a stainless steel tank, is planted with CEC suspension. The cells are infected with 
an  appropriate  volume  of  thawed  measles  stock  seed,  added  to  the  seeding  medium,  stirred  and 
incubated. The cell sheets are rinsed and refed several times, and the virus propagators are harvested. 
HVF is sampled for virus potency and sterility. 
Manufacture of redispensed bulk 
Harvests from one or more batches of HVF may be used to produce a single batch of measles vaccine 
bulk. The final bulk is dispensed in cans (dispensed bulk) and stored frozen. The dispensed bulk cans 
comprise a batch of drug substance. The dispensed bulk is thawed and used for filling or redispensed 
into  aliquots  appropriate  for  filling  (redispensed  bulk).  The  redispensed  bulk  is  stored  frozen  until 
used  in  final  product  formulation.  Samples  for  QC  are  drawn  from  the  appropriate  different  bulk 
stages. 
Page 2/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control cell Cultures and Harvest Control Fluids (HCFs) 
Uninfected  harvested  control  fluids  (HCF)  are  produced  using  the  same  cell  substrate  and  culture 
media. Before the final collection of the HCF, control cell monolayers are examined microscopically 
throughout the harvest period.  
Controls of materials and critical steps / process validation 
The  CEC  substrate  used  in  the  manufacture  of  measles  vaccine  bulk  is  tested  according  to  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements. 
Testing of the measles stock seed is consistent with the Ph. Eur., Section 2.6.16 and the monograph for 
Measles Vaccine (Live), with the exception of the virus identification test. Identity testing is instead 
performed post-clarification on the vaccine bulk, where antibody neutralization can be performed on a 
clarified bulk virus solution. 
process 
Critical 
their 
specifications/acceptance  criteria  are  based  on  historical  process  capability,  current  manufacturing 
specifications, and the specifications defined in the company’s monovalent measles vaccine license. 
parameters 
attributes 
(CQAs), 
(CPPs), 
quality 
critical 
and 
Process validation was both retrospective and prospective. Retrospective validation of measles vaccine 
manufactured  with  HSA  was  first  used  to  determine  acceptable  ranges;  a  prospective  validation  of 
measles  vaccine  manufactured  with  rHA  was  then  performed  to  demonstrate  conformity  of  the 
processes to validation specifications. Within each manufacturing process step, goals, CPPs and CQAs 
were determined, along with appropriate specifications and acceptance criteria. 
•  Characterisation and specifications 
The  complete  nucleotide  sequences  for  the  Stock  Seed  (and  a  monovalent  measles  filled  container 
vaccine lot and a clarified measles bulk lot manufactured with rHA have been determined. Nucleotide 
sequence alignment showed complete agreement.  
Process-related  impurities  arising  from  the  measles  vaccine  bulk  manufacturing  processes  are 
classified  as  cell  substrate-  or  cell  culture-derived.  Cell  substrate-derived  impurities  may  include 
proteins  derived  from  the  host  organism,  such  as  CECs  used  as  substrate  for  measles  vaccine  bulk 
production. Cell culture-derived impurities may include antibiotics (e.g., neomycin), serum, or other 
media  components.  Also  low  levels  of  particle-associated  reverse  transcriptase  activity  are  found; 
however, no signal of infectious retrovirus could be detected. 
Since  the  measles  process  uses  cell  growth  medium  containing  fetal  bovine  serum  (FBS),  measures 
have  been  taken  to  minimize  the  concentration  of  bovine  serum  proteins  in  the  vaccine  bulk.  The 
concentration of bovine serum albumin (BSA) is used as a surrogate marker for other bovine serum 
proteins. Each measles final bulk is tested for BSA.  
Measles  vaccine  bulk  is  an  unpurified  product  whose  potency  was  measured  through  a  biological 
assay  for  the  active  substance  rather  than  through  evaluation  of  integrity  of  physical  form. 
Degradation products are neither identified nor quantified. 
Tests  are  performed  at  specified  stages  of  vaccine  bulk  processing  in  order  to  confirm  absence  of 
extraneous  agents,  to  verify  potency  and  identity,  and  to  provide  a  measure  of  quality  and  process 
consistency. Most assays performed on measles bulks are qualitative methods for which there are only 
two  outcomes  (growth  or  no  growth,  absence  or  presence,  etc.).  In  many  of  these  cases,  the  assay 
specifications are compendial. 
Page 3/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The validation was performed using the assay procedure that was in place at the time the assays was 
validated.  The  parameters  that  were  evaluated  as  part  of  the  method  validation  for  the  assays  have 
been  provided  for  each  analytical  procedure.  When  applicable,  the  assay  parameters addressed were 
specificity,  inter-assay  precision,  limit  of  detection,  limit  of  quantification,  linearity,  range, 
ruggedness, and robustness. 
Batch analysis results have been provided for HVF/HCF lots and dispensed bulk lots; all results met 
specifications. 
The  reference  standard  used  in  potency  testing  is  a  monovalent  measles  vaccine  lot  manufactured 
using  currently  approved  processes.  The  applicant  committed to characterize the performance of the 
measles potency assay with international reference standards. 
• 
Stability 
Formal stability studies were initiated on three lots of measles harvested virus fluids and three lots of 
pooled clarified bulk vaccine manufactured with rHA. These harvested virus fluids lots are considered 
representative  of  the  individual  harvests.    The  pooled  clarified  bulk  vaccine  is  prepared  from  the 
pooled harvested virus fluids lots above. 
Stability  results  for  three  lots  of  measles  harvested  virus  fluids  and  three  lots  of  measles  pooled 
clarified bulk are available. All results to date meet the protocol acceptance criteria. 
Active substance - mumps 
• 
Manufacture 
Seed lot system 
The Jeryl Lynn strain of mumps virus was isolated from a throat washing specimen collected in 1963 
from  a  clinical  case  of  mumps  (Jeryl  Lynn)  by  Dr.  M.  R.  Hilleman,  Merck  Research  Laboratories, 
Merck  &  Co.,  Inc.  Virus  strain  isolation  was  performed  at  the  Merck  West  Point,  Pennsylvania 
facility. The preparation of the master seed and the stock seed is described in detail in the dossier. 
Manufacture of mumps harvested virus fluids (HVFs) and redispensed bulk 
CEC  are  planted  in  a  similar  manner  to  the  process  described  for  measles.  Post-infection,  the  virus 
propagators are refed, the spent medium is drained and discarded; the virus harvest is collected. The 
HVFs are sampled for virus potency and sterility and shell frozen. 
The redispensed bulk is manufactured in a similar manner to the process described for measles. 
Control Cell Cultures and Harvest Control Fluids (HCFs) 
The HCFs are manufactured in a similar manner to the process described for measles. 
Controls of materials and critical steps / process validation 
The  seed  testing  is  consistent  with  the  Ph.  Eur.,  Section  2.6.16  and monograph for Mumps Vaccine 
(Live),  with  the  exception  of  the  virus  identification  test.  Identity  testing  is  instead  performed  post-
clarification on the vaccine bulk, where antibody neutralization can be performed on a clarified bulk 
virus solution. 
Definition of CPPs and process validation were performed in a similar manner as for measles. 
Page 4/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Characterisation and specifications 
The complete consensus nucleotide sequence of the Stock Seed, and partial nucleotide sequences for 
an HSA-containing vaccine bulk lot and a rHA-containing bulk lot have been determined. To assess 
the population diversity of the stock seed and bulk product, the JL-strain specific nucleotide sequences 
were determined and results provided in the dossier.  
Process-related impurities arising from the mumps bulk manufacturing processes may be classified as 
cell  substrate-derived  or  cell  culture-derived.  Since  the  mumps  process  uses  cell  growth  medium 
containing fetal bovine serum (FBS), mumps bulk lots were tested for BSA and the results for all of 
these lots were within the specification. 
Mumps vaccine is an unpurified product whose potency is measured through a biological assay for the 
active substance rather than through evaluation of integrity of physical form. Degradation products are 
neither identified nor quantified. 
The testing (and method validation) of the mumps bulk is essentially the same as for the measles bulk. 
Batch analysis results have been provided for HVF/HCF lots and dispensed bulk lots; all results met 
specifications. 
The reference standard used in potency testing is a monovalent mumps vaccine lot manufactured using 
currently approved processes. The applicant committed to characterize the performance of the mumps 
potency assay with international reference standards. 
• 
Stability 
Formal stability studies were initiated on three lots of mumps harvested virus fluids and three lots of 
pooled  clarified  bulk  vaccine  manufactured  with  rHA.  For  the  mumps  component,  each  harvested 
virus  fluid  lot  placed  on  stability  was  produced  by  the pooling of three independent harvested virus 
fluid  lots.  These  harvested  virus  fluid  stability  lots  are  considered  representative  of  the  individual 
harvests.  The  three  pooled  clarified  bulk  vaccine  lots  are  prepared  from  the  pooled  harvested  virus 
fluids lots above.  
Stability results for three lots of mumps harvest fluids and three lots of pooled clarified bulk vaccine 
are available. All results to date meet the protocol acceptance criteria. 
Active substance - rubella 
•  Manufacture 
Seed lot system 
The  Wistar  RA  27/3  strain  of  rubella  virus  was  isolated  in  1964  by  Dr.  Stanley  Plotkin,  Wistar 
Institute of Anatomy and Biology, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S., from a kidney explant obtained 
from a surgically aborted foetus. It was directly inoculated into WI-38 cells, and then attenuated.  
The  preparation  of  the  Master  Seed  and  the  Stock  Seed  is  appropriately  described  in  the  dossier. 
Release testing results were presented for both Virus Stock Seed Lots. 
Human diploid fibroblast cells (WI-38) as cell substrate 
Page 5/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  source  of  the  cell  substrate  used  in  the  manufacture  of  rubella  vaccine  is  female,  embryonic, 
human,  lung  tissue  (WI-38)  obtained  from  the  Karolinska  Institut,  Stockholm,  Sweden  in  1962. 
Primary cells were isolated and a cell suspension was prepared at a population doubling level (PDL) 
of  8.  Frozen  ampoules  of  cells  at  PDL  of  8  were  sent  to  the  American  Type  Culture  Collection 
(ATCC) for storage.  
WI-38  working  cell  banks  (WCBs)  are  prepared  using  appropriate  cells  from  the  ATCC.  WCB  lots 
have been used in clinical trials; in the meantime, the stock for these two WCBs has been depleted and 
a new WCB lot was manufactured by the method described in the dossier and has passed all release 
testing. 
Manufacture of rubella harvested virus fluids (HVFs) 
An appropriate number of WCB ampoules are expanded to create a sufficient amount of cell substrate. 
Post-plant, the spent medium is removed and discarded. A sufficient quantity of rubella stock seed is 
added. Following virus adsorption, the infected cells are refed and incubated. 
Post-infection,  the  spent  medium  is  removed  and  discarded;  the  cell  sheets  are  rinsed,  refed  and 
incubated. 
The  first  HVF  are  collected,  pooled  and  mixed  with  a  stabilizer.  The  HVF  is  stored  frozen  and 
sampled for virus potency and sterility. 
Manufacture of redispensed bulk 
Harvests from one or more batches of HVF may be used to produce a single batch of rubella dispensed 
bulk which is redispensed into appropriate aliquots. The dispensed bulk cans comprise a batch of drug 
substance.  The  redispensed  bulk  is  stored  frozen  until  used  in  final  product  formulation.  The 
redispensed bulk is diluted to target fill potency during the formulation of M-M-RVAXPRO. 
Control Cell Cultures and Harvest Control Fluids (HCFs) 
Control roller bottles and HCFs are prepared in analogy with the HVFs. 
Controls of materials and critical steps / process validation 
WI-38  cells  from  each  WCB  are  passaged  to  the  vaccine  production  PDL  level  or  beyond  to 
demonstrate  safety  and  acceptable  karyology  at  the  PDL  intended  for  use  in  harvested  virus  fluid 
(HVF) manufacturing. Release testing is described at appropriate process steps and will be performed 
in compliance with Ph. Eur 5.2.3. 
Testing of the rubella stock seed is consistent with the Ph. Eur., Section 2.6.16 and the monograph for 
Rubella Vaccine (Live), with the exception of the virus identification test. Identity testing is instead 
performed post-clarification on the vaccine bulk, where antibody neutralization can be performed on a 
clarified bulk virus solution. 
Definition of CPPs and process validation were performed in a similar manner as for measles. 
•  Characterisation and specifications 
Rubella  virus  stock  seed  and  bulk  vaccine  product  derived  from  each  stock  seed  as  well  as  bulk 
vaccine product derived from a clarified bulk lot manufactured with rHA showed complete agreement 
in the nucleotide sequence alignment. 
Page 6/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process-related impurities arising from the rubella vaccine bulk manufacturing processes are classified 
as cell substrate- or cell culture-derived. Since the rubella process uses cell growth medium containing 
fetal  bovine  serum  (FBS),  rubella  bulk  lots  were  tested  for  BSA  and  the  results  for  all  of  these  lots 
were within the specification. 
Rubella vaccine bulk is an unpurified product whose potency is measured through a biological assay 
for  the  active  substance  rather  than  through  evaluation  of  integrity  of  physical  form.  Degradation 
products have been neither identified nor quantified. 
Tests  are  performed  at  specified  stages  of  vaccine  bulk  processing  in  order  to  confirm  absence  of 
extraneous  agents,  to  verify  potency  and  identity,  and  to  provide  a  measure  of  quality  and  process 
consistency. Most assays performed on rubella bulk are qualitative methods for which there are  only 
two  outcomes  (growth  or  no  growth,  absence  or  presence,  etc.).    In  many  of  these  cases,  the  assay 
specifications are compendial.  
The validation was performed using the assay procedure that was in place at the time the assays was 
validated.  The  parameters  that  were  evaluated  as  part  of  the  method  validation  for  the  assays  were 
provided  for  each  analytical  procedure.  A  qualification  of  the  test  methods  using  rubella  material 
manufactured with rHA has been conducted. 
Batch analysis results have been provided for HVF/HCF lots and dispensed bulk lots; all results met 
specifications.  
The reference standard used in potency testing is a monovalent rubella vaccine lot manufactured using 
the  currently  approved  process.  The  applicant  committed  to  characterize  the  performance  of  the 
rubella potency assay with international reference standards. 
• 
Stability 
Formal stability studies were initiated on three lots of rubella harvested virus fluids and for three lots 
of pooled clarified bulk vaccine manufactured with rHA. For the rubella component, each harvested 
virus  fluids  lot  placed  on  stability  was  produced  from  the  pooling  of  a  maximum  of  ten  harvests.  
These harvested virus fluids lots are considered representative of the individual harvests.  The pooled 
clarified bulk vaccine is prepared from the pooled harvested virus fluids lots above. 
Stability results for three lots of rubella harvested virus fluids and three lots of pooled clarified bulk 
are available. All results to date meet the protocol acceptance criteria.   
Page 7/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recombumin 20% (rHA) 
Recombumin  20%  (w/v),  a  recombinant  human  albumin  produced  in  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae,  is 
purchased from Delta Biotechnology Ltd. and is used as a component of the viral growth medium in 
the  bulk  manufacturing  process  of  the  M-M-VAXPRO  antigens  and  may  be  present  in  the  final 
presentation, as residual traces. 
The preparation is sterile, endotoxin-free, contains no preservatives, the purity is not less than 99%. It 
is  formulated  with  water  for  injection,  sodium  chloride,  octanoic  acid,  sodium  hydroxide  and 
polysorbate  80.  The  product  is  filled  in  50  ml  Type  II  glass  vials  sealed  with  20  mm  siliconized 
chlorobutyl gray rubber stoppers secured with aluminium overseals with flip-off white plastic caps. 
Recombumin  20%  has  been  developed  as  replacement  for  human  serum  albumin  for  use  in  further 
manufacture of other pharmaceutical products or medical devices. It is equivalent to the native human 
serum albumin in primary, secondary and tertiary structure as well in binding capacity. 
Manufacture 
 The  fermentation  and  isolation  processes  have  been  adequately  described  in  the  dossier.  
Subsequently,  the  rHA  is  purified  through  a  series  of  chromatographic  and  ultrafiltration  steps. 
Validation data have been provided and critical parameters in the processes have been identified and 
investigated. 
For  stabilisation,  sodium  octanoate  is  added.  For  the  final  bulk,  the  purified  rHA  from  one  or  two 
fermentation  procedures  can  be  used.  After  determination  of  albumin,  octanoate  and  sodium 
concentrations in the unformulated bulk product, excipients (octanoate and polysorbate 80) and water 
for injection are added to achieve the bulk formulated product specification. 
After sterile filtration, the formulated product is incubated for 15 days at 31±1°C, a visual inspection 
is performed post-incubation, followed by final labelling, storage and shipping. 
Control of materials and critical steps / process validation 
The  host  yeast  strain  and  expression  plasmid  have  been  developed  for  expression  of  rHA.    The 
sequence for the full length human albumin cDNA was obtained from published sources and the gene 
chemically synthesised. 
Appropriate in-process controls and specifications for the MCB and WCB have been put in place. 
All materials used in the manufacture of Recombumin are of non-human and non-animal origin. 
Critical  steps  are  appropriately  controlled;  process  validation  studies  included  process  qualifications 
(including  retrospective  qualification  for  process  changes,  media  fills  and  confirmation  batches), 
impurity  clearance  studies  (yeast  DNA,  antifoam,  yeast  antigens,  albumin  fragments,  nickel, 
mannosylated rHA), hold time studies on intermediates and studies on chromatographic matrices used 
in the manufacturing process. 
Characterisation and specifications 
The  identity  with  the  native  human albumin (commercially available) has been studied with various 
physicochemical  techniques  to  demonstrate  the  equivalence  of  the  primary,  secondary  and  tertiary 
structure  of  the  native  human  albumin  and  Recombumin  rHA.  Comparative  binding  studies  showed 
the functional similarity. 
The  Ouchterlony  test,  competitive  ELISA-methods  and  western  blot  assays  with  specific  antibodies 
raised in rabbits demonstrated the absence of neoantigens in Recombumin rHA. 
Page 8/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product-related  impurities  have  been  identified  as  an  rHA  degradation  product  with  MW  of  about 
45kDa.  The  fragment  comprises  residues  of  the  rHA  molecule.  A specific cleavage site could result 
from the action of certain yeast proteinases. Process development studies showed that the fragment is 
removed during purification. 
It could be shown by GP-HPLC, that the main impurities in native albumin are polymers, whereas in 
contrast to the Recombumin rHA, there are no polymers, but dimers and trimers at the same level as in 
native albumin. 
Process-related  impurities  are  yeast  DNA,  antifoam,  yeast  antigens,  albumin  fragments,  nickel  and 
mannosylated rHA, which are removed to sufficiently low levels during the purification process 
Specification  tests  include  identity,  purity,  and  impurity-testing,  and  quantity  determination.  Test 
parameters identical with HSA testing according Ph. Eur. monograph for HSA are: Octanoate, Protein, 
Purity,  Sterility,  polymers,  pH  and  sodium.  The  levels  are  identical  or  lower  (impurities  and 
polymers).  
With  the  exception  of  endotoxin  testing  and  pH,  all  other  tests  are  validated  according  to  ICHQ2B. 
The specific parameters have been described in the method description. 
Batch  analysis  data  from  23  batches  produced  between  May  1999  and  October  2002  were  provided 
and all test results are lower than the specification limits. The results demonstrated a reproducible and 
consistent production of Recombumin 20%. 
The reference standard is in-house material, generated from released Recombumin 20% final batches. 
Stability 
Three  batches  were  used  for  the  original  stability  programme.  The  study  was  performed  at  three 
temperatures  (5  °C,  25  °C  and  40  °C)  with  time  intervals  of  2,  3,  6,  9,  12,  18  and  36  months.  The 
statistical analysis of the data shows that a horizontal storage (worst case) at temperatures up to 27°C 
will not change the quality of the final product within a time frame of 36 months. Therefore initially a 
shelf life of 36 month at 2 – 25°C was defined.  The stability study was extended with additional time 
intervals  of  48  and  60  months  at  the  5  (2  –  8)  oC  and  therefore  the  shelf  life  was  modified  to  60 
months at 2 – 8 oC during the review process. 
process 
Critical 
their 
specifications/acceptance  criteria  are  based  on  historical  process  capability,  current  manufacturing 
specifications, and the specifications defined in the company’s monovalent measles vaccine license. 
parameters 
attributes 
(CQAs), 
(CPPs), 
quality 
critical 
and 
Process validation was both retrospective and prospective. Retrospective validation of measles vaccine 
manufactured  with  HSA  was  first  used  to  determine  acceptable  ranges;  a  prospective  validation  of 
measles  vaccine  manufactured  with  rHA  was  then  performed  to  demonstrate  conformity  of  the 
processes to validation specifications. Within each manufacturing process step, goals, CPPs and CQAs 
were determined, along with appropriate specifications and acceptance criteria. 
Medicinal Product 
M-M-RVAXPRO  is  a  sterile  lyophilized  vaccine  preparation  combining  the  3  viruses  used  in  the 
manufacture  of  the  currently  licensed  M-M-RII  vaccine  from  Merck.  Sterile  water  for  injections  is 
provided  for  reconstitution.  The  product  is  intended  for  single-dose  administration  and  contains  no 
preservative.  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The formulation of M-M-RVAXPRO vaccine is appropriately described in the dossier. Four full-scale 
lots  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  were  manufactured  for  the  purpose  of  evaluating  clinical  bio-equivalency, 
consistency of manufacture, and a new slotted stopper. In addition to the latex-free fluted stopper that 
Page 9/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is currently used for the M-M-RII vaccine, a latex-free slotted stopper may also be used for the M-M-
RVAXPRO vaccine. Stability results for the demonstration lots, including the process validation lot, 
clinical, and slotted stopper lots were satisfactory. 
The diluent has a 0.2 mL overage to cover liquid losses to the inside of the vial when the vaccine is 
reconstituted. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
All manufacturing operations for M-M-RVAXPRO are performed at Merck & Co., Inc, West Point, 
Pennsylvania, and USA. 
The  manufacture  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  is  essentially  identical  to  the  process  used  for  the  currently 
licensed M-M-RII with the following differences: 
- 
The vaccine bulks contain rHA in replacement of HSA. 
The final formulated bulk is prepared using albumin-free diluents. 
Filled vaccine containers are sealed with a new slotted stopper in addition to the fluted stopper 
currently used for M-M-RII. 
- 
- 
Batches of M-M-RVAXPRO vaccine are filled and lyophilized. Dilution of dispensed virus bulk with 
diluent,  filling,  and  lyophilization  takes  place  in  a  sterile  suite  under  Class-100  laminar  flow 
conditions.  Each  batch  of  bulk  multivalent  vaccine  is  prepared  by  aseptically  combining  aliquots  of 
the three monovalent virus bulk components and their respective diluents to form the Final Formulated 
Bulk (FFB), which is maintained at 2-8 °C throughout the subsequent vial filling process. The volume 
of  diluent  added  is  dependent  on  the  potency  of  the  bulk  virus  component  lot  that  is  used  and  is 
determined by a formula that accounts for yields across processing steps. The virus concentrations in 
the FFB are controlled to ensure that the amount of virus in the filled container is within specifications 
at release and remains above the minimum expiry throughout the dating period.  
In a Class 100,000 area, vendor-supplied glass vials and stoppers are washed with water for injection 
using a validated wash cycle. The washed vials are then sterilized in a qualified dry heat sterilizer. The 
stoppers  are  siliconized,  steam-sterilized  and  vacuum-dried.  The  container  and  container  closure 
system have been validated for compatibility and closure integrity. 
Sterile  vials  are  then  filled  with  FFB,  partially  stoppered  and  frozen  by  passage  through  a  qualified 
freezing  tunnel.  Trays  of  frozen  product  are  then  loaded  onto  shelves  of  a  qualified  lyophilization 
cabinet. 
Critical  process  parameters  during  mixing,  sterile  filtration,  filling  and  freezing/lyophilising  are 
controlled by appropriate in-process controls. 
The  consistency  of  product  manufacture  for  the  formulation,  filling,  and  lyophilization  of  M-M-
RVAXPRO was demonstrated using three demonstration lots. 
Inspected  unlabeled  vials  are  placed  in  boxes  labelled  with  the  product  name  and  number  and  the 
filled  container  lot  number,  and  are  stored  at  -20  °C  or  colder  for  up  to  18  months  until  they  are 
transferred for labelling and packaging. After labelling and packaging, the vaccine may be stored for 
up to 24 months at 2–8 °C. 
Both,  the  sterile  diluent  in  a  syringe  with  fixed-needle  and  the  diluent  in  a  syringe  without  needle 
syringe are manufactured by an outside vendor. The diluent in a vial is manufactured by Merck & Co., 
Inc, West Point, Pennsylvania, USA. 
At  the  outside  vendor,  Water  for  Injection  (WFI),  manufactured  by  distillation  of  purified  water,  is 
filled  into  glass  syringes  and  sterilized.  Each  pre-filled,  diluent  syringe  contains  a  target  volume  of 
0.75 ml. Raw materials are in accordance with specifications. The manufacturing process is described 
Page 10/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  detail  and  all  relevant  information  regarding  quality  control,  validation  of  the  manufacturing 
process and stability of the diluent have been provided by the applicant. 
At Merck, WFI, manufactured by distillation of purified water, is filled into glass vials and terminally 
sterilized. Each pre-filled diluent vial contains a target volume of 0.85 ml. The manufacturing process 
is  described  in  detail  and  all  relevant  information  regarding  quality  control,  validation  of  the 
manufacturing process and stability of the diluent have been provided by the applicant 
• 
Product Specification 
The  FFB  is  tested  for  sterility  and  neomycin  content..  The  tests  on  the  filled  container  include 
appearance,  identity,  potency,  reconstitution  time,  pH,  moisture,  sterility,  thermal  stability  and  BSA 
content. Market containers are retested for viral identity prior to release. 
Validation  and  qualification  studies  have  been  performed  for  assays  that  are  used  for  routine  batch 
release of M-M-RII and M-M-RVAXPRO final formulated bulk and filled container lots. 
Each  dose  of  the  vaccine  contains  at  the  end  of  its  shelf-life  a  minimum  of  3.0 log TCID50 measles 
virus, 4.1 log TCID50 mumps virus and 3.0 log TCID50 rubella virus. The release specifications have 
been selected to ensure that, at expiry, each dose will contain the aforementioned minimum potency 
for each virus when the vaccine is reconstituted and stored at 2–8 °C for up to 8 hours.. 
Results of batch release testing have been provided for three demonstration and the clinical trial lots; 
all lots fulfilled the pre-defined specifications. 
All excipients are pharmacopoeial, except hydrolysed porcine gelatin, Medium 199 with Hanks’ Salts, 
Minimum Essential Medium Eagle (MEM) which are controlled in-house.  
Because  M-M-RVAXPRO  is  a  live  virus  vaccine  composed  of  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  input 
bulks  prepared  from  cell  culture  fluids;  it  is  not  a  highly  purified  product.  To  provide  a  marker  for 
removal of fetal bovine serum used during the cell culture process, a quantitative test for residual BSA 
is  conducted  on  the  individual  input  virus  bulks.  The  BSA  content  of  the  three  input  virus  bulks  is 
used to calculate the amount of BSA present in the filled container based on the dilution of each bulk 
during filling. 
The  reference  standards  used  in  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  potency  testing  are  monovalent, 
lyophilized measles, mumps, or rubella vaccine lots manufactured with HSA that are dedicated for use 
in potency testing.  
The  relative  potency  of  test  sample  to  standard  is  used  to  calibrate  potency  of  the  test  material. 
However,  the  applicant  commits  to  characterise  the performance of the measles, mumps and rubella 
potency assays with Ph. Eur. Biological Reference Preparations. 
• 
Viral Safety and TSE 
Adventitious Agents 
The  testing  program  for  adventitious  agents  is  described  in  detail  in  the  chapters  on  the  Measles, 
Mumps,  and  Rubella  active  substances.  Where  applicable,  raw  materials  used  in  vaccine 
manufacturing are tested for adventitious agents prior to release and use in manufacturing. Validated 
processing  steps  that  add  additional  levels  of  confidence  for  the  absence  of  adventitious  agents  are 
filter sterilization and ultraviolet (UV)-irradiation. 
TSE 
Page 11/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process for M-M-RVAXPRO was evaluated for the theoretical risk of transmission 
of infectivity associated with BSE prions, with the conclusion that the risk of BSE transmission in M-
M-RVAXPRO  is  exceedingly  remote.  The  rationale  and  the  calculation  for  the  theoretical  risk  of 
transmission of infectivity associated with BSE prions were provided. 
Biological reagents used in the manufacture of the vaccine or intermediates include fetal bovine serum 
(FBS),  porcine  pancreatic  trypsin,  porcine-derived  hydrolyzed  gelatine,  choline  chloride,  bovine  or 
porcine  tallow-derived  polysorbate  80,  fish  or  sheep  wool-derived  cholesterol,  and  amino  acids. 
Certificates  of  Suitability  (CoS),  which  are  granted  by  the  European  Directorate  for  the  Quality  of 
Medicines (EDQM), and the measures applied (e.g. regular audits of vendor facilities, testing to ensure 
that  the  appropriate  quality  standards  are  met,  etc.)  ensure  that  the  ruminant-derived  raw  materials 
currently used in manufacturing are free of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) or bovine 
spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) contamination. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  tests  have  been  designed  to  measure  product  performance  under  anticipated  handling  and 
storage  conditions  and  under  stressed  conditions  that  might  be  encountered  after  distribution.  The 
anticipated  conditions  following  lyophilization  were  studied.  Upon  use,  the  vaccine  is  reconstituted 
and may be stored for up to 8 hours at 2–8 °C prior to injection. 
Stability  studies  were  conducted  on  the  demonstration,  clinical,  and  slotted  stopper  lots  at  various 
temperatures  to  support  the  storage  conditions  of  the  vaccine.  The  presented  data  on  the  M-M-
RVAXPRO  stability  lots  showed  that  all  three  virus  components  are  within  the  pre-determined 
specifications. Based on the presented stability data a shelf-life of 24 months at 2–8 °C can be granted. 
Post-launch  vaccine  lots  will  be  included  in  the  annual  stability  program  for  the  purpose  of  routine 
monitoring. A minimum of three lots per year of M-M-RVAXPRO or M-M-R II will be recruited as 
annual stability lots. Appropriate testing will be performed through product expiry. 
For  the  diluent  in  a  vial,  the  stability  data  support  the  product  shelf  life,  routine  handling,  and  an 
expiry  of  36  months  after  storage  at  room  temperature.  For  the  diluent  in  a  pre-filled  syringe,  the 
Applicant provided certificates of a stability study performed on the glass syringes.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
During the evaluation of M-M-RVAXPRO, a number of minor quality-related issues were identified. 
These  related  mainly  to  the  qualification  of  the  WI-38  cell  substrate  MCB/WCB  for  rubella,  BSA 
testing  and  content, determination of the plasmid copy numbers in Recombumin cell banks, and the 
conduct of a rHA-specific release test for the M-M-RVAXPRO finished product. The applicant was 
also  asked  to  characterize  the  performance  of  the  measles,  mumps  and  rubella  potency  assay  with 
international reference standards. Regarding the calibration of potency results for measles, mumps and 
rubella, the demonstrated concordance between reference and test samples ensures that the calibration 
procedure does not shift sub-potent batches to comply with specifications. The data provided by the 
applicant satisfactorily address the concerns raised and support the view, that the calibration procedure 
is suitable and of significance to consistently manufacture vaccine of satisfactory quality. 
It  should  also  be  noted  that  M-M-RVAXPRO,  as  other  live  attenuated  vaccines,  only  has  a  few 
purification  steps,  resulting  in  residual  traces  of  rHA  in  the  vaccine.  Based  on  this,  the  product 
information  includes  a  statement  on  the  theoretical  risk  of  sensitization  reactions  to  recombinant 
human albumin. 
Several  commitments  are  made  by  the  applicant,  and  several  follow-up  measures  are  defined  to 
provide further information post-approval. In conclusion, all quality issues are resolved. 
1.2  Non-clinical aspects 
Page 12/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M-M-RVAXPRO is a new vaccine based on well known trivalent measles, mumps, and rubella live 
attenuated combination vaccine which is currently manufactured using pooled serum-derived human 
serum  albumin  (HSA)  as  a  component  of  the  viral  growth  media  in  the  bulk  manufacturing  process 
and  as  a  component  of  the  bulk  diluents  at  formulation  of  the  final  product  and  authorised  in  many 
countries  worldwide  since  1978.    The  difference  relates  to  the  substitution  of  HSA  by  recombinant 
human  albumin  (rHA)  in  the  bulk  manufacturing  process  to  address  ongoing  safety  and  sourcing 
concerns  related  to  human  blood-derived  products.  rHA  is  a  recombinant  protein  produced  in  yeast 
and  is  structurally  and  analytically  comparable  to  the  unmodified  monomeric  population  of  HSA.  
Experimental  data  have  confirmed  that  the  substitution  of  rHA  for  HSA  in  the  viral  growth  media 
result  in  satisfactory  vaccine  virus  growth  and  product  characteristics.    Thus,  rHA  and  HSA  are 
considered functionally comparable for the production of viral bulks. 
Pharmacology 
Live  virus  vaccines  require  virus  growth  following  vaccination  in  order  to  induce  an  immune 
response.  Since  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  are  the  active  pharmaceutical  components,  and  since 
there is an obligate requirement, as biological agents, to replicate in order to induce immunity, direct 
pharmacodynamic assessment of the active components is not meaningful. For this reason traditional 
pharmacology studies were not conducted with measles, mumps, and rubella  (live) vaccine with rHA, 
or its licensed vaccine components; however extensive safety testing was performed on cell cultures, 
cell  banks,  master  and  working  seeds,  and  viral  bulks  to  assure  the  safety  of  the  final  container 
vaccine. This was considered acceptable also supported by the Note for Guidance on the Preclinical 
Pharmacological  and  Toxicological  testing  of  Vaccines  (CPMP/SWP465/95)  and  by  the  CHMP 
scientific advice. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Experimental studies to demonstrate absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of the active 
ingredients  in  M-M-RVAXPRO  have  not  been  performed  for  any  of  the  component  viruses.  These 
studies  are  not  relevant  for  evaluation  of  live,  attenuated  viral  vaccines,  which  induce  their 
immunogenic  response  as  a  consequence  of  virus  replication.  Thus,  it  is  known that a subcutaneous 
injection  of  either  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella    (live)  vaccine  with  rHA  or  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella  (live) vaccine with HSA results in limited virus replication. This is in line with the Note for 
testing  of  Vaccines 
Guidance  on 
(CPMP/SWP465/95). 
the  Preclinical  Pharmacological  and  Toxicological 
Toxicology 
No  toxicological  studies  have  been  performed  for  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella    (live)  vaccine  with 
with rHA, or for any of the vial components (measles, mumps, rubella).  
Clinical experience with the existing measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) has been accumulated 
over  decades.  In  addition,  for  M-M-RVAXPRO  extensive  testing  has  been  performed  on  material 
obtained  at  various  steps  in  the  manufacturing  process  to  assure  that  each  vaccine  bulk  and  each 
finished product is free from adventitious agents that might be introduced during manufacturing. As 
described  under  the  quality  part  of  this  document,  testing  includes  analysis  for  absence  of  specific 
microbial contaminants (absence of mycoplasma, mycobacterium), microbial sterility, and absence of 
specific viral agents (ALV virus in measles and mumps bulk vaccine) and general viral adventitious 
agents (bulk vaccine). Absence of adventitious agents is determined using tissue culture safety tests, 
egg safety tests, animal safety tests (adult mice and suckling mice), and in general safety tests, (guinea 
pigs and mice).  
It was therefore considered that toxicological testing would not provide additional information on the 
safety  profile  of  this  new  vaccine,  especially  since  rHA  was  subjected  to  separate  toxico-
pharmacological testing using concentrations by far exceeding those being present in the vaccine. 
The absence of toxicological studies was therefore considered acceptable, also supported by the Note 
for  Guidance  on 
testing  of  Vaccines 
(CPMP/SWP465/95) and by the CHMP scientific advice. 
the  Preclinical  Pharmacological  and  Toxicological 
Page 13/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of this vaccine is anticipated. 
1.3  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  live  attenuated  vaccine  has  been  authorised  in  all  EU  countries  from 
1978  to  1999  based  on  the  results  from  several  studies  conducted  comparing  the  immunogenicity, 
safety,  and  tolerability  of  different  combinations  (monovalent,  bivalent,  and  trivalent)  of  measles, 
mumps  and  rubella  vaccines.  These  trials  were  not  conducted  according  to  current  Good  Clinical 
Practices  standards  and  therefore  the  results  have  been  provided  with  this  application  only  as 
supportive. 
This new childhood vaccine has been developed: 
-  to  harmonise  the  expiry  titer  for  the  mumps  components  of  this  combination  vaccine  to  4.1  log10 
tissue culture infectious dose 50 (TCID50)/dose;  
and  
- to support the replacement of HSA with rHA in the manufacturing of the viral bulk. 
The clinical development includes: 
- a mumps end-expiry clinical study (Protocol 007)  
- a rHA replacement clinical study (Protocol 009)  
An overview of these studies is displayed in table 1.  
Table 1: Summary of pivotal studies 
Study 
Study Title 
007 
A  Study  of  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella  vaccine  (live)  at  Mumps 
Expiry in healthy children 12 to 18 
months of age 
009 
A Comparison of the Safety, 
Tolerability, and Immunogenicity 
of M-M-RVAXPRO 
manufactured with rHA Versus 
measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) manufactured with 
HSA in Healthy Children 12 to 18 
Months of Age 
Primary Study Objectives 
(1)  To  demonstrate  a  similar  immune  response  to  mumps  virus  by 
neutralization among subjects receiving measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine 
(live)  containing  an  expiry  dose  of  mumps  virus 
concomitantly  compared  to  subjects  receiving  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella vaccine (live)  containing a release dose of mumps virus, both 
used concomitantly with varicella vaccine live. 
(2)  To  demonstrate  an  adequate  immune  response  among  subjects 
receiving  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  containing  an 
expiry dose of mumps. 
(1)  To  demonstrate  that  the  antibody  response  rates  to  measles, 
mumps,  and  rubella  among  children  who  receive  measles,  mumps, 
and rubella virus vaccine live manufactured with rHA will be similar 
to the antibody response rates among children who received measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with HSA. 
(2)  To  demonstrate  that  who  received  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella 
vaccine  (live)  manufactured  with  rHA  will  induce  acceptable 
antibody response rates to measles, mumps, and rubella. 
(3) To demonstrate that who received measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) manufactured with rHA will be generally well tolerated.
There are no fundamental changes proposed in the indication or dosing schedule of this new vaccine 
compared to the authorised one. 
The approved indication is: 
Page 14/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“for simultaneous vaccination against measles, mumps and rubella in individuals 12 months or older. 
For use in measles outbreaks, or for post-exposure vaccination of non-pregnant adolescent and adult 
subjects, or, previously unvaccinated children older than 12 months who are in contact with 
susceptible pregnant women, and persons likely to be susceptible to mumps and rubella”.  
Pharmacokinetics 
No  pharmacokinetics  studies  have  been  conducted.  Although  live  attenuated  viral  vaccines  actively 
replicate in the vaccine, decades of experience with the pathology of wild-type measles, mumps and 
rubella viruses as well as with the corresponding live attenuated vaccines do not provide evidence that 
wild and vaccine viruses do persist for an extended period of time in the body nor that they do enrich 
in  specific  body  tissues.  In  very  rare  exceptions  measles  wild-type  virus  (but  not  the  attenuated 
vaccine  virus)  might  persist  in  the  body  resulting  in  the  clinical-pathological  manifestation  of 
Subacute Sclerotic Pan-Encephalitis (SSPE). Also in view of the limited number of doses administered 
(a maximum of two during lifetime) pharmacological studies with MMR vaccines are difficult if not 
impossible to conduct and results would not be suitable to add anything on our present knowledge on 
these vaccines. 
The  pharmacodynamic  principles  of  vaccines  can  be  described  as  the  induction  of  a  qualitative  and 
quantitative  acceptable  immune  response  within  an  acceptable  time  frame  suitable  to  protect  from 
infection with the wild-type antigen. Successful achievement of protective immunity is controlled by 
measuring surrogate parameters present in the serum of vaccinees (in most instances antibody titers). 
Antibody  concentrations  (=titers)  below  or  above  a  specific  threshold  might  serve  as  generally 
accepted correlates for protection.  
On this basis the absence of pharmacokinetic studies is considered acceptable. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No clinical pharmacology studies have been conducted. For similar reasons as above described, the 
absence of pharmacodynamics studies is considered acceptable 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response study (ies) 
In view of the results of the pivotal clinical studies conducted with M-M-RVAXPRO discussed below 
and  the  exhaustive  clinical  experience  accumulated  with  currently  authorised  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella vaccine (live), dose finding/dose response studies using M-M-RVAXPRO were not considered 
necessary.  
• 
Main study (ies)  
Mumps End Expiry Clinical Trial (Protocol 007) 
METHODS 
This was a randomised, double blind, multicentre trial conducted in the United States. 
It was conducted in response to changing test procedures for potency determination of the mumps 
component (from BSC-1 to Vero cells, resulting in increased titers/potencies) and in order to 
harmonize diverging specifications in individual countries where measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine 
(live) is authorised. 
Study Participants  
Infants 12 to 18 months of age were selected so as to follow the vaccination regimen recommended by 
the  U.S.  Advisory  Committee  on  Immunization  Practices  (ACIP).  Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria 
were applied in order to enroll healthy subjects without preexisting conditions that could confound the 
evaluation of the immunogenicity or safety profiles of the vaccine. 
Page 15/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Subjects  were  randomised  to  receive  1  of  3  sublots  from  1  parent  bulk  lot  of  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella vaccine (live):  
Sublot 1, vaccine containing a mumps virus potency of no more than 3.8 log10 TCID50/dose;  
Sublot 2, vaccine containing a mumps virus potency of no more than 4.1 log10 TCID50/dose;  
Sublot 3, vaccine containing the current release potency for mumps (4.8 log10 TCID50/dose).  
Each dose of vaccine was administered concomitantly with one 0.5-ml subcutaneous dose of varicella 
v  
accine, live in line with routine clinical practices in the United States. 
Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with an alternative stabilizer component 
called optimized Gelatin-medium O-Sorbitol was used in this study instead of  Gelatin-medium O-
Sorbitol (current formulation). Both formulations contain the same ingredients and are essentially 
equivalent except that the concentrations of the buffers and sugers vary slightly between the 
formulations.  Equivalence in vaccine immunogenicity between measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine 
(live) manufactured with either formulation has been demonstrated and therefore the use of optimized 
Gelatin-medium O-Sorbitol for this study does not have an impact on the results of the study. 
Table 2 summarises the vaccines, dosage schedule, and dose volume administered for subjects 
enrolled in each group. All vaccines were administered subcutaneously in the arm or thigh. If a subject 
remained seronegative to a particular vaccine viral component at 42 days postvaccination, that subject 
was given the option of being revaccinated with currently marketed measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) or varicella vaccine, live. 
Table 2: Vaccine Components, Dose, Vaccination Schedule, and Dose Volume Administered by 
Treatment Group 
Sublot 
Vaccine 
Component 
Dose 
Vaccination 
Schedule 
Dose Volume 
Administered 
3 
1 (1) 
2 (1) 
0.5 ml 
Day 0 
Measles 
Mumps 
Rubella 
varicella vaccine, live (2) 
Measles 
Mumps 
Rubella 
varicella vaccine, live (2) 
Measles 
Mumps 
Rubella 
varicella vaccine, live (2) 
3.1 log 10 TCID50 
3.8 log 10 TCID50 
3.4 log 10 TCID50 
≥ 5974 PFU/ml 
3.1 log 10 TCID50 
4.1 log 10 TCID50 
3.4 log 10 TCID50 
≥ 5974 PFU/ml 
3.1 log 10 TCID50 
4.8 log 10 TCID50 (3) 
3.4 log 10 TCID50 
≥ 5974 PFU/ml 
(1) Two sublots of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) derived from the same parent lot as the control lot were aged to 
target mumps virus potencies with a 95% upper confidence bound of no more than 3.7 and 4.0 log10 TCID50/dose. After 
reassignment of the mumps house standard (HS) potency to 4.3 log10 TCID50,/0.1 ml, the 95% upper confidence bound values 
were no more than 3.8 and 4.1 log10 TCID50, respectively. Final mumps virus potencies (95% upper confidence bound) were 3.76 
(3.79) and 4.04 (4.08) log10 TCID50, respectively. 
(2) Each 0.5-ml dose of varicella vaccine, live was given concomitantly with each sublot of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine 
(live) at separate injection sites. Three separate lots of varicella vaccine, live were used for this study. Lot 1155H with a potency of 
5974 PFU/ml; Lot 1013 J with a potency of 8577 PFU/ml; and Lot 1454J with a potency of 7458 PFU/ml. 
(3) The mumps virus potency of 4.8 log10 TCID50/dose is the point estimate for the control group and is representative of a mumps 
potency within the release range for measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live). 
0.5 ml 
0.5 ml 
Day 0 
Day 0 
Objectives 
The primary objectives were: 
1.  To  demonstrate  a  similar  immune  response  to  mumps  virus  by  neutralization  among  subjects 
receiving  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  containing  an  expiry  dose  of  mumps  virus 
compared to subjects receiving measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) containing a release dose 
of mumps virus, given concomitantly with varicella vaccine live. 
Page 16/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  To  demonstrate  an  adequate  immune  response  among  subjects  receiving  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella vaccine (live) containing an expiry dose of mumps concomitantly with varicella vaccine live. 
The secondary objectives were: 
1. To demonstrate similar immune responses to measles, mumps, and rubella (seroconversion rates by 
ELISA) among children who receive measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) containing an expiry 
dose  of  mumps  virus  compared  to  children  who  receive  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live) 
containing a release dose of mumps virus, given concomitantly with varicella vaccine, live. 
2. To summarise the geometric mean titers (GMTs) to measles, mumps, and rubella (as measured by 
ELISA)  and  varicella  (as  measured  by  Varicella  Antibody  Enzymelinked  immunoabsorbent  assay 
[gpELISA])  42  days  postvaccination  with  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  given 
concomitantly with varicella vaccine live in both expiry groups and the release group. 
3. To summarize the mumps neutralization GMTs and median titers in each treatment group. 
4. To summarize the varicella immunogenicity (percent of subjects with titers ≥5 gp ELISA units by 
gpELISA) in subjects 6 weeks postvaccination. 
5.  To  summarise  the  persistence  of  antibody  to  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  (as  measured  by  the 
mumps Plaque Reduction Neutralization (PRN) assay and by ELISA) 1 year postvaccination in each 
treatment group. 
6. To describe the safety and tolerability of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) containing an 
expiry dose of mumps virus given concomitantly with varicella vaccine live. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Critical timepoints to monitor subjects were day 0 (administration of study vaccine), day 42 or week 6 
(blood draw to measure antibody titers to test vaccine) and day 365 or one year follow up (blood draw 
to monitor persistence of immunity).  
For  the  primary  objectives,  the  sera  were  tested  for  mumps  antibody  by  a  plaque  reduction 
neutralization  (PRN)  assay.  As  per  the  amended  protocol,  a  baseline  antibody  titer  of  <1:32  was 
considered seronegative and assigned a value of 1:16 for analysis. Seroconversion was defined as a 4-
fold  rise  in  antibody  titers  (1:16  to  =1:64)  between  baseline  and  6  weeks  postvaccination.  For  the 
secondary  objectives  concerning  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella,  the  sera  were  tested  for  antibody  to 
each viral component using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). For measles, a baseline 
antibody titer obtained at the starting dilution that was below the optical density (OD) cutoff for the 
assay (derived as a function of historical, known negative controls) was considered seronegative. At 6 
weeks,  an  antibody  titer  (tested  at  a  1:10  dilution  of  the  starting  dilution)  ≥21.3  measles  Ab  units 
(≥207.8mIU/ml) was considered seropositive. Seronegativity to mumps corresponded to an antibody 
titer <10 ELISA Ab units. Seropositivity to mumps corresponded to an antibody titer ≥10 ELISA Ab 
units. Seronegativity to rubella corresponded to an antibody titer <10 IU/ml. Seropositivity to rubella 
corresponded to an antibody titer ≥10 IU/ml.  
Sample size 
Considering the assumptions made, the planned total of healthy children to be randomised  (1770 or 
590/group) was considered acceptable. 
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomised  1:1:1  into  1  of  3  treatment  groups  according  to  a  computer  generated 
allocation. 
Blinding (masking) 
Page 17/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While varicella vaccine live was used in this trial under open-label conditions, measles, mumps, and 
rubella vaccine (live) was used under blinded conditions.  
Statistical methods 
The  primary  analyses  of  immunogenicity  was  performed  based  on  the  per  protocol  subjects.  Per 
protocol  subjects  were  defined  as  subjects  who  did  not  have  major  protocol  violations,  who  had 
prevaccination  and  postvaccination  serology  results  and  who  had  baseline  antibody  titers  below  the 
seropositivity  cut-off  for  the  antigen  being  analysed  (baseline  measles  antibody  titers  were  <120 
mIU/ml,  whose  baseline  mumps  antibody  titers  were  <10.0  ELISA  antibody  units/ml,  and  whose 
baseline rubella antibody titers were <10.0 IU/ml). 
The study was powered to establish non-inferiority (<5.0-percentage-point decrease in response rates 
for  a  test  conducted  at  the  one-sided  0.05  level)  between  the  4.1  log10  TCID50  and  the  4.8  log10 
TCID50  Mumps  Virus  Potency  group,  and  to  establish  the  acceptability  of  the  immune  response  to 
mumps (lower bound of the 95% confidence interval >90%) for the 4.1 log10 TCID50 Mumps Virus 
Potency group. Only if the 4.1 log10 TCID50 dose was found to meet the criteria for an end-expiry 
mumps potency, the hypotheses to establish the suitability of the 3.8 log10 TCID50 dose as a mumps 
end-expiry potency would be tested.  
There was one planned interim analysis of the immunogenicity for mumps on a randomly selected 
subset of ~600 subjects (~200 per group). The purpose of the preliminary subset analysis was to 
provide with an early read of the mumps immunogenicity data. At the time of the preliminary analysis, 
the study enrollment and the safety and immunogenicity follow-up had been completed. It was not 
planned to stop the trial based on interim results. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A  total  of  1997  healthy  infants  were  enrolled  and  vaccinated.  Table  3  summarises  the  number  of 
subjects followed up through the end of the study: 
Table  3:  Summary  of  subjects  excluded  at  critical  time  points  post-vaccination  from  per-protocol 
immunogenicity analyses for measles, mumps (PRN and ELISA) and rubella 
Treatment Groups of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) 
Entered 
Eligible at day 0 
Eligible at day 42 (week 6) 
Measles (ELISA) 
Mumps (PRN) 
Mumps (ELISA) 
Rubella (ELISA) 
Eligible at 182 to 546 days 
post vaccination 
3.8 log TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
663 
4.1 log TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
662 
4.8 log TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
672 
Main reason(s) for drop 
out 
611 
562 
459 
577 
590 
426 
624 
578 
433 
583 
595 
427 
Deviation from 
protocol, Refused 
further 
participation/Lost to 
follow-up 
Seropositivity at 
baseline, Missing 6-
week serology result
Lost to follow-up 
623 
572 
437 
588 
602 
456 
No drop out due to adverse events was reported throughout the study period.  
Recruitment 
The study, conducted in 21 study centres in the United States was initiated on 26-Feb-1999 and was 
completed on 20-Jul-2001. 
Conduct of the study 
Two protocol amendments were made but none of these individual changes were considered to have a 
major impact as these were refinements of the originally describe methodology, clarifications on the 
original study and data analysis plan and improvements facilitating the conduct of the study. 
Page 18/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The table 4 displays the subject characteristics by treatment group. The three groups were balanced 
with respect to gender, age, race and initial serostatus to each antigen. 
Table 4: Subjects baseline characteristics 
Treatment Groups of Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) 
3.8 log10 TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency†
(N = 663) 
4.1 log10 TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency‡
(N = 662) 
4.8 log10 TCID50/dose 
Mumps Virus Potency§
(N = 672) 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
n 
TOTAL 
(N = 1997) 
(%) 
Gender 
Male 
Female 
Age (Months) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
Male 
Female 
Race/Ethnicity 
Asian 
Black 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Native American 
Other 
 Initial Serostatus 
Mumps PRN 
     Negative 
     Positive 
     Unknown 
Measles ELISA%
     Negative 
     Positive 
       Unknown 
Mumps ELISA¶
     Negative 
     Positive 
       Unknown 
n 
323 
340 
12 
113 
451 
43 
8 
36 
471 
75 
117 
624 
35 
4 
640 
19 
4 
(48.7) 
(51.3) 
340 
322 
(51.4) 
(48.6) 
339 
333 
(50.4) 
(49.6) 
1002 
995 
(50.2) 
(49.8) 
12.5 
1.0 
12.0 
11 to 24 
11 to 24 
12 to 18 
12.5 
1.0 
12.0 
11 to 18 
12 to 17 
11 to 18 
12.5 
1.0 
12.0 
11 to 17 
11 to 17 
11 to 17 
12.5 
1.0 
12.0 
11 to 24 
11 to 24 
11 to 18 
(1.8) 
(17.0) 
(68.0) 
(6.5) 
(1.2) 
(5.4) 
(71.0) 
(11.3) 
(17.6) 
(94.1) 
(5.3) 
(0.6) 
(96.5) 
(2.9) 
(0.6) 
7 
101 
454 
41 
15 
44 
443 
93 
126 
629 
26 
7 
636 
19 
7 
(1.1) 
(15.3) 
(68.6) 
(6.2) 
(2.3) 
(6.6) 
(66.9) 
(14.0) 
(19.0) 
(95.0) 
(3.9) 
(1.1) 
(96.1) 
(2.9) 
(1.1) 
12 
124 
451 
44 
7 
34 
450 
84 
138 
632 
38 
2 
649 
21 
2 
(1.8) 
(18.5) 
(67.1) 
(6.5) 
(1.0) 
(5.1) 
(67.0) 
(12.5) 
(20.5) 
(94.0) 
(5.7) 
(0.3) 
(96.6) 
(3.1) 
(0.3) 
31 
338 
1356 
128 
30 
114 
1364 
252 
381 
1885 
99 
13 
1925 
59 
13 
(1.6) 
(16.9) 
(67.9) 
(6.4) 
(1.5) 
(5.7) 
(68.3) 
(12.6) 
(19.1) 
(94.4) 
(5.0) 
(.65) 
(96.4) 
(3.0) 
(.65) 
Rubella ELISA#
     Negative 
     Positive 
     Unknown 
†  Sublot 1 0.5-ml dose for subcutaneous injection in the arm contains: Measles—~3.0 (~1,000) log10 TCID50, Mumps—3.8 
(98.0) 
(0.6) 
(1.4) 
(98.6) 
(0.8) 
(0.6) 
(99.1) 
(0.6) 
(0.3) 
1969 
13 
15 
666 
4 
2 
649 
4 
9 
654 
5 
4 
(98.6) 
(.65) 
(.75) 
(~6,300) log10 TCID50 per dose, Rubella—3.4 (~2,500) log10 TCID50. Mumps Expiry Group. 
‡   Sublot 2 5-ml dose for subcutaneous injection in the arm contains:  Measles—~3.2 (~1,500) log10 TCID50, Mumps—
4.1(~12,500) log10 TCID50 per dose, Rubella—3.4 (~2,500) log10 TCID50. Intermediate Mumps Expiry Group. 
 §   Sublot 3 0.5-ml dose for subcutaneous injection in the arm contains:  Measles—3.8 (~6,000) log10 TCID50, Mumps— 4.8 
(~63,000) log10 TCID50, Rubella—3.6 (~4,000) log10 TCID50.  Control Group. 
 %   Serostatus cutoff: negative = ≤OD cutoff, positive = >OD cutoff 
 ¶   Serostatus cutoff: negative = <10 ELISA Ab units, positive = ≥10 ELISA Ab units 
#   Serostatus cutoff: negative = <10 IU ml, positive = ≥10 IU ml 
N = Number of subjects vaccinated. 
n = Number of subjects in each category. 
SD = Standard deviation 
The incidence of prior therapies appeared to be similar across the 3 treatment groups. Specifically, the 
use  of  anti-infective  agents  (amoxicillin),  anti-inflammatory  (ibuprofen),  central  nervous  system 
agents  (acetaminophen),  vitamins  and  minerals  was  balanced  across  all  treatment  groups.  The  same 
applied for the incidence of concomitant therapies (mainly amoxicillin, ibuprofen and acetaminophen). 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  study  primarily  focused  on  the  identification  of  an  acceptable  end  of  expiry  titer of the mumps 
component  providing  sufficient  immunogenicity  and  inducing  acceptable  antibody  titers  to  protect 
from  measles,  mumps  and  rubella.  Two  different  log  titer  potencies  (3.8  and  4.1)  of  the  mumps 
component were compared to the current release potency of 4.8. A summary of antibody responses to 
Page 19/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measles, mumps and rubella at 6 weeks post-vaccination for subjects initially seronegative to measles, 
mumps, or rubella is shown in table 5. 
Table 5: Summary of antibody responses to measles, mumps and rubella at 6 weeks post-vaccination for 
subjects initially seronegative to measles, mumps, or rubella 
Treatment Groups of Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) 
3.8 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=663) 
4.1 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=662) 
4.8 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=672) 
Antibody 
Assay 
Mumps 
(PRN) 
Measles 
(ELISA) 
Mumps 
(ELISA) 
Rubella 
(ELISA) 
Parameter 
SCR (%) 
GMT 
(%≥4096) 
Median Titer 
Observed 
Response 
89 
≥1118  
(33.8) 
2048 
SCR (%) 
GMT 
SCR (%) 
GMT 
SCR (%) 
GMT 
98 
1489 
94 
84 
94 
102 
95% CI 
(86,92) 
(961,1301) 
(1694,2477) 
(97,99) 
(1722,1986) 
(92,96) 
(77,92) 
(92,96) 
(93,111) 
Observed 
Response 
93 
≥1285 
(34.4) 
2048 
97 
1710 
97 
85 
94 
102 
95% CI 
(91,96) 
(1124,1470) 
(1731,2443) 
(95,98) 
(1587,1842) 
(96,99) 
(79,91) 
(92,96) 
(93,111) 
Observed 
Response 
92 
≥1123 
(31.6) 
2048 
98 
1710 
98 
85 
95 
99.5 
95% CI 
(89,95) 
(976,1290) 
(1719,2440) 
(97,99) 
(1594,1833) 
(97,99) 
(79,92) 
(93,97) 
(92,108) 
All values rounded 
Abbreviations:   N = Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group.; n = Number of subjects initially 
seronegative for mumps ; [PRN] contributing to the per-protocol analyses.; CI = Confidence interval; SCR = Seroconversion 
Rate. 
Statistical analysis of non-inferiority and acceptability of mumps (PRN) seroconversion rates for the 
3.8 log 10 TCID 50 mumps virus potency group and the 4.1 log 10 TCID 50 mumps virus potency 
group  in  comparison  to  the  group  receiving  the  4.8  log  10  TCID  50  mumps  virus  potency  (current 
release specification) are summarised below in table 6. 
Page 20/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Statistical Analysis of Non-Inferiority and Acceptability of Mumps [PRN] Seroconversion Rates 
Observed SCR 
(95% CI) †
93.3% 
(90.5%, 95.5%) 
Acceptability 
Conclusion†
Acceptable 
(p-value = 
0.010) 
Estimated 
SCR‡
93.4% 
Estimated SCR§ of  
M-M-R II – 
4.8 log10 TCID50 
Mumps Virus  
Potency (Control 
Group) §
(N=672, n=437) 
92.2% 
Estimated 
Differences§%
(90% CI) ¶
1.2 
(-1.8,4.1) 
89.3% 
(86.1%, 92.0%) 
Not 
Acceptable 
(p-value = 
0.717)   
89.4% 
92.2% 
-2.9 
(-6.1,0.3) 
Non-
inferiority 
Conclusion¶
Similar 
(p-value 
<0.001) 
Unable to 
Show 
Similarity 
(p-value = 
Mumps End Expiry 
Treatment Group 
M-M-R II – 
4.1 log10 TCID50 
Mumps Virus 
Potency 
(N=662, n=433) 
M-M-R II – 
 3.8 log10 TCID50 
Mumps Virus 
Potency 
(N=663, n=459) 
†  The lower bound of the 95% CI being >90% implies that the value of the parameter is statistically significantly greater than the 
0.140)        
prespecified acceptability criterion (90%) and allows for a conclusion of acceptability.  A 1-sided p-value ≤0.025 implies that the 
parameter is statistically significantly greater than the prespecified acceptability criterion of 90%. 
‡  Estimated SCRs and their differences were based on a statistical analysis model adjusting for study centers. 
§  The mumps virus potency of 4.8 log10 TCID50/dose is the point estimate for the control group and is representative of a mumps 
potency within the release range for M-M-R II. 
% [Treatment Group - Control Group]. 
¶  A lower bound of 90% CI on the difference excluding -5.0 implies that the difference is statistically significantly less than the 
prespecified clinically relevant decrease of 5 percentage points and allows for a conclusion of similarity (non-inferiority).  A 1-sided 
p-value ≤0.05 implies that the difference is statistically significantly less than the prespecified difference of 5 percentage points. 
N = Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
n = Number of subjects initially seronegative for mumps [PRN] contributing to the per-protocol analyses. 
CI = Confidence interval. 
SCR = Seroconversion rate. 
The study data showed that measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) containing a mumps virus 
potency of no more than 4.1 log10 TCID50 induced an acceptable immune response to measles, mumps 
and rubella that was similar to the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live), containing the current 
release mumps virus potency of 4.8 log10 TCID50. The data however failed to show either acceptability 
or similarity of the immune response to mumps induced by measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine 
(live), containing a mumps virus potency of no more than 3.8 log10. 
Because  of  the  choice  of  the  selected  level  for  the  tests  of  non-inferiority  (5  %  one  sided)  the  per-
protocol  non-inferiority  test  was  repeated  using  a  one-sided  Type  I  error  rate  of  2.5%:  to  provide 
evidence  that  the  experiment-wise  error  rate  did  not  exceed  2.5%  (one-sided),  Repeating  the  non-
inferiority analyses did not change the conclusions originally. 
Secondary immunogenicity objectives included the observational comparison of GMTs and median 
titre measured by PRN (mumps) and GMTs by ELISA (measles, mumps, rubella) across the 3 
treatment groups.  Study results showed that the 3 groups were generally comparable with respect to 
median titres and GMTs for all antigens and assays utilized.  The immune responses to measles, 
mumps, and rubella are summarised in table 7.  
Page 21/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Summary of Antibody Responses to Measles, Mumps, and Rubella at 6 Weeks Postvaccination for 
Subjects Initially Seronegative to Measles, Mumps, or Rubella  (Per-Protocol Analysis) 
Treatment Groups of Treatment Groups of Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live)
3.8 log10 TCID50/dose Mumps Virus 
Potency 
(N=663) 
4.1 log10 TCID50/dose Mumps Virus 
Potency 
(N=662) 
4.8 log10 TCID50/dose Mumps Virus 
Potency 
(N=672) 
Antibody 
(Assay) 
Mumps  
(PRN)     
Parameter†
SCR 
GMT 
(%≥4096)‡
Median Titer 
Observed 
Response 
89.3% (410/459) 
≥1117.7  
(33.8%) 
2048.0 
95% CI 
(86.1%, 92.0%) 
(960.5, 1300.7) 
(1693.6, 2476.6) 
Observed 
Response 
93.3% (404/433) 
≥1285.3 
 (34.4%) 
2048.0 
95% CI 
(90.5%, 95.5%) 
(1124.1, 1469.8) 
(1731.2, 2422.7) 
Observed 
Response 
 92.2% (403/437)   
≥1122.7 
 (31.6%)       
2048.0             
Measles  
(ELISA) 
SCR 
GMT 
98.0% (551/562) 
1849.1 
(96.5%, 99.0%) 
(1722.0, 1985.6) 
96.9% (560/578) 
1709.6 
(95.1%, 98.1%) 
(1587.0, 1841.6) 
 98.1% (561/572)   
1709.2             
95% CI 
(89.3, 94.6%)     
(976.3, 1290.9)    
(1719.2, 
2439.7)     
(96.6, 99.0%)     
(1593.7, 
1833.0)     
Mumps  
(ELISA)   
SCR 
GMT 
94.1% (543/577) 
83.8 
(91.9%, 95.9%) 
(76.7, 91.6) 
97.4% (568/583) 
84.7 
(95.8%, 98.6%) 
(78.5, 91.3) 
 98.0% (576/588)   
  85.2              
(96.5, 98.9%)     
(78.9, 92.0)       
Rubella  
(ELISA) 
†  For measles, subjects whose prevaccination samples had optical density (OD) responses equal to or below the cutoff were considered seronegative at 
 95.0% (572/602)   
  99.5              
94.2% (556/590) 
101.6 
94.3% (561/595) 
101.5 
(92.1%, 96.0%) 
(93.0, 110.8) 
(92.0%, 96.0%) 
(93.2, 110.7) 
SCR 
GMT 
(93.0, 96.6%)     
(91.8, 107.8)      
baseline, whereas subjects with a 6-week measles antibody titer ≥207.8 mIU/mL (≥21.3 measles Ab units) were considered seropositive postvaccination.  
For mumps, samples with mumps antibody titers ≥10 ELISA Ab units were considered seropositive, whereas samples with mumps antibody titers <10 
ELISA Ab units were considered seronegative.  For rubella, samples with rubella antibody titers ≥10 IU/mL were considered seropositive, whereas samples 
with rubella antibody titers <10 IU/mL were considered seronegative.   
‡  Percentage of subjects with 6-week titer ≥4096. 
N = Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
SCR = Seroconversion rate. 
GMT = Geometric mean titer. 
ELISA = Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
PRN = Plaque reduction neutralization assay. 
CI = Confidence interval. 
Table 8 displays the 1-year postvaccination antibody persistence summaries for measles, mumps, and 
rubella. The antibody persistence rates are displayed for the subjects who were initially seronegative, 
who  responded  at  6  weeks  postvaccination,  and  who  had  an  evaluable  antibody  persistence  blood 
sampling  for  the  given  antigen.  GMTs  at  6  weeks  and  1-year  postvaccination  are  displayed  for  this 
same cohort of subjects. 
Page 22/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Persistence of antibody responses to measles, mumps and rubella at 1 year post-vaccination in subjects 
initially seronegative to measles, mumps, or rubella who responded at 6 weeks post-vaccination 
Treatment Groups of Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) 
3.8 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=663) 
4.1 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=662) 
4.8 log 10 TCID 50/Dose 
Mumps Virus Potency 
(N=672) 
Observed 
Response 
n(%)1
95% CI 
Observed 
Response 
n(%)2
95% CI 
Observed 
Response 
n(%)3
95% CI 
Antibody 
Assay 
Parameter 
Measles 
(ELISA) 
Mumps 
(ELISA) 
PR 
6-Week GMT 
1-Year GMT 
PR 
6-Week GMT 
1-Year GMT 
99.8 
1936 
3848 
96.7 
99.9 
80.7 
(99,100) 
(1800,2082) 
(3508,4223) 
(95,98) 
(93,108) 
(73,90) 
99.8 
1863 
3376 
95.4 
91.0 
79 
(99,100) 
(1734,2002) 
(3091,3687) 
(93,97) 
(84,98) 
(71,88) 
99.6 
1829 
3266 
95.7 
91.9 
74.9 
(98,100) 
(1705,1962) 
(2990,3568) 
(93,97) 
(85,99) 
(68,83) 
Rubella 
(ELISA) 
Abbreviations: 
100 
118 
155 
PR 
6-Week GMT 
1-Year GMT 
(99,100) 
(109,128) 
(144,168) 
(99,100) 
(110,127) 
(148.172) 
100 
118 
159 
N = Number of subjects with persistence bleed. 
n = Number of subjects in persistence analysis 1n=.426, 423, 439 for measles, mumps, rubella; 2n=.427, 437, 428 for 
measles, mumps, rubella; 3n=.456, 466, 461 for measles, mumps, rubella 
PR = Persistence rate (ratio)—proportion of subjects who maintained a positive response at 1 year among those who 
were initially seronegative and who responded at 6 weeks 
postvaccination. A positive response for measles is antibody titer =207.8 mIU/mL, for mumps is antibody titer =10 
ELISA Ab units, and for rubella is antibody titer =10 IU/mL. 
GMT = Geometric mean titer. 
ELISA = Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
CI = Confidence interval. 
99.6 
115 
154 
(98,100) 
(108,124) 
(142,166) 
rHA Replacement Trial (Protocol 009)  
This  was  a  double-blind,  randomised,  comparative,  multicentre  study  designed  to  evaluate  the 
immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of M-M-RVAXPRO manufactured with recombinant human 
albumin  (rHA)  in  comparison  to  currently  authorised  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live) 
manufactured with human serum albumin (HSA) isolated from pooled-donor serum.  
METHODS 
Study participants 
Infants 12 to 18 months of age were selected as to follow the vaccination regimen recommended by 
the  U.S.  Advisory  Committee  on  Immunization  Practices  (ACIP).  Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria 
were applied in order to enroll healthy subjects without preexisting conditions that could confound the 
evaluation of the immunogenicity or safety profiles of the vaccine. 
Treatment 
At Visit 1 (Day 1), subjects were randomly assigned to receive a single, 0.5-ml dose of either measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with rHA (M-M-RVAXPRO) or currently authorised 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with HSA. 
All vaccines were administered via a subcutaneous injection either in the upper arm or in the antero-
lateral thigh. No other vaccines were allowed to be given during the study period. 
As specified in the protocol, if a subject did not have adequate antibody levels to one or more of the 
viral  components  of  the  vaccine  at  Visit  2  (Days  42  to  56  postvaccination),  the  subject’s 
parent/guardian  was  offered  the  option  of  having  the  subject  revaccinated  with  currently  authorised 
vaccine. Subjects who were revaccinated were offered safety follow-up from Day 1 through Day 42 
following revaccination and the appropriate serological evaluation at Day 42 following revaccination 
Page 23/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The primary objectives were to demonstrate that: 
(1)  the  antibody  response  rates  to  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  among  children  who  receive  M-M-
RVAXPRO  would  be  similar  to  the  antibody  response  rates  among  children  who  receive  measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with HSA 
(2)  M-M-RVAXPRO  would  induce  acceptable  antibody  response  rates  to  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella.  
(3) M-M-RVAXPRO would be generally well tolerated. 
Secondary objectives were: 
a. to summarise the geometric mean titers (GMTs) to measles, mumps, and rubella at 6 weeks 
postvaccination with either M-M-RVAXPRO manufactured with rHA or measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) manufactured with HSA. 
b.  to  summarise  the  incidence  of  antibodies  to  albumin  in  children  who  receive  either  M-M-
RVAXPRO manufactured with rHA or measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) manufactured with 
HSA. 
c. to summarise the incidence of potentially allergic adverse experiences of special interest in children 
who receive either M-M-RVAXPRO manufactured with rHA or measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine 
(live) manufactured with HSA. 
d. to explore the relationship between potentially allergic adverse experiences of special interest and 
antibodies to albumin. 
Outcome/Endpoints 
The primary endpoints were the antibody response rates to measles, mumps, and rubella measured 6 
weeks  postvaccination.  The  antibody  response  rates  were  defined  as  the  percentage of subjects with 
measles  antibody  titers  ≥120  mIU/ml  in  subjects  whose  baseline  measles  antibody  titer  was  <120 
mIU/ml,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  mumps  antibody  (Ab)  titers  ≥10.0  ELISA  Ab  units/ml  in 
subjects whose baseline mumps antibody titer was <10.0 ELISA Ab units/ml, and the percentage of 
subjects with rubella antibody titers ≥10.0 IU/ml in subjects whose baseline rubella antibody titer was 
<10.0  IU/ml.  The  secondary  immunogenicity  endpoints  were  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  GMTs 
measured 6 weeks postvaccination. 
 Sample size 
Considering the assumptions made, the planned total of healthy children to be randomised  (515 
evaluable subjects per group) was considered acceptable. 
Randomisation 
Patients  were  randomised  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  one  of  both  treatment  groups  according  to  a  computer 
generated allocation scheme. 
Blinding (masking) 
Appropriate blinding measures were taken. 
Statistical methods 
This study was powered for each of the three similarity comparisons (<5 percentage-point difference 
in rates for a test conducted at the 1-sided 0.05 level). For the second primary hypothesis regarding the 
acceptability of antibody responses to measles, mumps, and rubella for M-M-RVAXPRO with rHA, 
the response rates for each component in the M-M-RVAXPRO with rHA group was to be tested (1-
sided <= 0.025 level) against a 90% lower bound.  
Page 24/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preplanned subgroup analyses were performed in the population of initially seronegative subjects, of 
initially seropositive subjects as well as in all subjects with sufficient serology. 
RESULTS 
Patients flow 
A  total  of  1279  subjects  were  randomised.  Participant  flow  was  followed-up  for  42  days  and  the 
summary  of  subjects  excluded  at  6  weeks  post-vaccination  from  per-protocol  immunogenicity 
analyses for measles, mumps and rubella is outlined below in table 9: 
Table  9:  Summary  of  subjects  excluded  at  critical  time  points  post-vaccination  from  per-protocol 
immunogenicity analyses for measles, mumps (PRN and ELISA) and rubella: 
M-M-RVAXPRO (with rHA) 
Measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) with HSA 
Main reason(s) for drop out 
Eligible at day 1 
Measles 
Mumps 
Rubella 
Eligible at week 6 (day 42) 
Measles  
Mumps 
Rubella 
641 
641 
641 
531 
563 
572 
638 
538 
638 
498 
533 
543 
Seropositivity at baseline, 
Missing or non evaluable 6-
week serology results, Lost 
to follow-up, other technical 
difficulties 
As in study 007 no subjects in study 009 discontinued due to an adverse experience. 
Recruitment 
The study conducted in 30 study centres in the United States was initiated on 5 December 2001 and 
was completed on 20 December 2002. 
Conduct of the study 
Two protocol amendments were made but none of these individual changes were considered to have a 
major impact as these were refinements of the originally describe methodology, clarifications on the 
original study and data analysis plan and improvements facilitating the conduct of the study. 
Baseline data 
The table 10 displays the subject characteristics by treatment group. The three groups were balanced 
with respect to gender, age, race and initial serostatus to each antigen. 
Page 25/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Distribution of subjects between the 2 treatment groups was well balanced with respect to gender, 
age, race, and initial serostatus to each antigen. 
M-M-RVAXPROwith 
rHA 
Measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine (live) with HSA 
 Total 
(N=641) 
n              (%) 
(N=638) 
n              (%) 
 (N=1279) 
n              (%) 
314 
324 
 (49.2)  
 (50.8)  
 (51.3)  
 (48.7)  
 (0.2) 
 (99.7) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
 (99.8) 
(0.0) 
1 
640 
0  
13.0 
1 
636 
1 
      12.9 
0 
7 
108 
0 
40 
0 
16 
14 
456 
1.48 
12.0 
11 to 19 
11 to 19 
12 to 18 
1.53 
12.0 
11 to 18 
11 to 18 
12 to 18 
Gender                                
    Male                                     329 
 312 
    Female                                
Age (months)                      
    11 and Under                     
    12 to 18                             
    Over 18                              
    Mean                                 
    SD                                   
    Median                            
    Range                              
        Male                            
        Female                         
Race                                    
    Unknown                           
    Asian                                 
    Black                                 
    European                           
    Hispanic American            
    Indian                                
    Multi-racial                       
    Native American               
    White                                 
Initial Serostatus 
Measles ELISA†
     Negative 
     Positive 
     Unknown 
Mumps ELISA‡  
     Negative 
     Positive 
     Unknown 
Rubella ELISA§
609  
     Negative 
2  
     Positive 
     Unknown 
30   
†  Serostatus cutoff: negative = <120 mIU/ml, positive = ≥120 mIU/ml. 
‡  Serostatus cutoff: negative = < 10 ELISA Ab units, positive = ≥10 ELISA Ab units. 
§  Serostatus cutoff: negative = < 10 IU ml, positive = ≥10 IU ml. 
N=Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
rHA=Recombinant human albumin. 
HSA=Human serum albumin. 
 (0.2) 
 (1.1) 
 (18.2) 
 (0.2) 
 (6.4) 
 (0.3) 
 (4.1) 
 (2.0) 
 (67.6) 
 (0.0) 
(1.1) 
(16.8) 
 (0.0) 
(6.2) 
 (0.0) 
 (2.5) 
 (2.2) 
(71.1) 
1 
7 
116 
1 
41 
2 
26 
13 
431 
(93.9) 
 (1.4) 
 (4.7) 
 (94.0) 
 (0.5) 
 (5.5) 
 (86.7) 
(7.8) 
(5.5) 
 (88.5) 
(6.9) 
(4.7) 
600  
 3   
35     
(95.0) 
 (0.3) 
(4.7) 
(92.6) 
(1.9) 
 (5.5) 
567  
44 
30   
 602 
 9 
30 
591 
12 
35  
553 
50 
35 
    643 
636 
2 
  1276 
1  
     13.0 
 (50.3)  
 (49.7)  
 (0.2) 
 (99.8) 
 (0.1) 
1.51 
12.0 
11 to 19 
11 to 19 
12 to 18 
 (0.1) 
 (1.1) 
 (17.5) 
 (0.1) 
 (6.3) 
 (0.2) 
 (3.3) 
 (2.1) 
 (69.4) 
1 
14 
224 
1 
81 
2 
42 
27 
887 
  1120          (87.6) 
94         
 (7.3) 
65            (5.1) 
  1193          (93.3) 
21            (1.6) 
65            (5.1) 
  1209          (94.5) 
5             (0.4) 
65              (5.1) 
Fewer than half of the subjects in each treatment group received prior therapy within 14 days of study 
enrollment  (40.9%  of  the  recipients  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  with  rHA  and  39.8%  of  the  recipients  of 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) with HSA). The most commonly reported prior therapies 
were analgesics (10.5% and 13.0% respectively) and antibacterials for systemic use (12.2% and 10.7% 
respectively). Only 0.5% (3/641) of the recipients of M-M-RVAXPRO with rHA and 0.3% (2/638) of 
the  recipients  of  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  with  HSA  received  a  prior  vaccination 
within 14 days of study enrollment. 
Most subjects received some concomitant therapy during the 42 days following vaccination (79.6% of 
the  recipients  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  with  rHA  and  78.2%  of  the  recipients  of  measles,  mumps,  and 
rubella  vaccine  (live)).  The  most  commonly  reported  concomitant  therapies  were  analgesics  (49.5% 
and  45.6%  respectively),  anti-inflammatories  and  antirheumatic  products  (31.4%  and  24.3% 
respectively), and antibacterials for systemic use (26.2% and 22.6% respectively). Only 0.8% (5/641) 
of the recipients of M-M-RVAXPRO with rHA and 0.3% (2/638) of the recipients of measles, mumps, 
Page 26/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
   
   
   
                
                
                 
 
 
 
                
                
                 
 
 
 
 
 
                
                
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  group  received  a  concomitant  vaccination  within  42  days  following  the 
study vaccination. 
Outcome and estimations 
The analysis of the first primary immunogenicity hypothesis regarding the similarity of the antibody 
response rates to measles, mumps, and rubella among subjects receiving M-M-RVAXPRO with rHA 
compared with subjects receiving measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) with HSA was based on 
1-sided non-inferiority tests to exclude a decrease in response of more than 5% or more. 
Table 11: Statistical Analysis of Similarity of Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Antibody Responses in Initially 
Seronegative Subjects (Per-Protocol Analysis) 
M-M-R-VAXPRO with rHA 
Antibody 
(ELISA) 
Parameter 
Measles 
% ≥ 120 mIU/ml 
Mumps 
% ≥ 10 ELISA 
antibody units/ml 
Rubella 
% ≥ 10 mIU/ml 
n 
531 
563 
572 
(N=641) 
Estimated 
Response 
98.3 
99.4 
99.6 
measles, mumps, and 
rubella vaccine (live) with 
HSA 
(N=638) 
Estimated Difference 
(Percentage Points) 
(90% CI)1,2
n 
498 
533 
543 
Estimated 
Response 
98.8 
97.9 
99.6 
-0.5 
(-1.9,0.8) 
1.5 
(0.4,2.8) 
0.0 
(-0.8,0.8) 
N=Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
Abbreviations: 
n=Number of subjects initially seronegative for measles, mumps, and rubella contributing to the per-protocol analyses. 
rHA=Recombinant human albumin.; HSA=Human serum albumin.; ELISA=Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
Responses and their difference were based on a statistical analysis model adjusting for study centers. 
1
[MMR II with rHA]-[MMR II with HSA]. 
2
A lower bound of 90% confidence interval (CI) on the difference excluding a decrease of 5 percentage points or more implies the difference 
is statistically significantly less than the pre specified clinically relevant decrease of 5 percentage points and allows for a conclusion of 
similarity (non-inferiority). The associated 1-sided p-value for each test is <0.001. 
For each antigen the (one-sided) p-value for the test was>0.001 supporting non-inferiority. 
The  analysis  of  the  second  primary  immunogenicity  hypothesis  regarding  the  demonstration  of  an 
acceptable  antibody  response  to  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  among  subjects  receiving  M-M-
RVAXPRO with rHA was based on 1-sided, 1-sample binomial tests (conducted at the ≤0.025 level). 
This is equivalent to requiring that the lower bound of the 1-sample 95% CI for the measles, mumps, 
or rubella response rate be above 90% in order to declare the response rate for the antigen acceptable. 
As shown in Table 12, the statistical criterion for acceptability of antibody response was met for each 
antigen.  
Table 12: Statistical Analysis of Acceptability of Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Responses in Initially 
Seronegative Subjects (Per-Protocol Analysis): 
M-M-R-VAXPRO with rHA 
(N=641) 
Antibody 
(ELISA) 
Parameter 
n 
Measles 
% ≥ 120 mIU/ml 
531 
Mumps 
% ≥ 10 ELISA 
antibody units/ml 
563 
Rubella 
% ≥ 10 mIU/ml 
572 
Observed Response 
(95% CI) 
98.3 
(96.8,99.2) 
99.4 
(98.5,99.9) 
99.6 
(98.7,100) 
The lower bound of the 95% confidence interval (CI) being >90% implies that the value of the parameter is statistically significantly greater 
than the prespecified acceptability criterion (90%) and allows for a conclusion of acceptability. 
A summary of antibody responses to measles, mumps, and rubella among per-protocol subjects who 
had baseline measles antibody titers ≥120 mIU/ml, baseline mumps antibody titers ≥10.0 ELISA Ab 
Page 27/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
units/ml, or baseline rubella antibody titers ≥10.0 IU/ml is provided in Table 13. This assessment was 
made since maternal antibody to measles, mumps, and rubella can persist in children up to 12 months 
of age, which can diminish the antibody response to the viral components of this vaccine.  This table 
include GMTs (as defined for the PRN assay and/or the ELISA assay) measured at baseline and ~42 
days postvaccination, as well as the percentage of subjects with ≥4-fold rise in antibody level from 
baseline to ~42 days postvaccination, for each antigen, by treatment group.   
Table 13: Summary of Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Antibody Responses in Initially Seropositive Subjects—
Day 1 to Week 6 Postvaccination (Per-Protocol Analysis) 
M-M-R-VAXPRO with rHA 
Antibody 
(ELISA) 
Time 
Point 
n 
GMTs 
(95% CI) 
% ≥4 Fold-Rise 
(95% CI) 
(N=641) 
Measles 
Mumps 
Rubella 
Day 1 
42 
Week 6 
42 
271.3 
(209.1,352.1) 
1468 
(971.4,2218.3) 
Day 1 
Week 6 
Day 1 
Week 6 
9 
9 
1 
1 
38.1 
(NA) 
115.3 
(NA) 
32 
(NA) 
71 
(NA) 
76.2% (32/42) 
(60.5,87.9) 
55.6% (5/9) 
(NA) 
0.0  (0/1) 
1.0  (NA) 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live)  
with HSA 
(N=638) 
n 
47 
47 
11 
11 
2 
2 
GMTs 
(95% CI 
% ≥4 Fold-Rise 
(95% CI) 
233.6 
(194.7,280.3) 
1762 
(1288.1,2411.2) 
23.7 
(10.9,51.7) 
65.8 
(25.6,169.1) 
111.0 
(NA) 
5.0 
(NA) 
85 (40/47) 
(71.7,93.8) 
63.6 (7/11) 
(30.8,89.1) 
0.0  (0/2) 
1.0  (NA) 
Confidence intervals (CI) were only provided when n ≥10. 
Abbreviations: 
N=Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
n=Number of subjects initially seropositive to given antigen (measles, mumps, and rubella). 
rHA=Recombinant human albumin. 
HSA=Human serum albumin. 
GMT=Geometric mean titer. 
ELISA=Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. 
N/A=Not applicable. 
While no formal statistical analyses were performed, 95% CIs on the observed rates were provided if 
there were at least 10 initially seropositive subjects within a treatment group for a given antigen. For 
measles,  the  95%  CIs  on  the  observed  rates  in  each  group  overlapped,  suggesting  that  there  was  no 
evidence  of  a  difference  in  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  a  ≥4-fold  rise  in  measles  antibody  titer 
between the two treatment groups. For mumps, the 95% CI was not provided for the rHA group since 
the  number  of  initially  seropositive  subjects  was  less  than  10.  However,  the  95%  CI  for  the  HSA 
group did overlap the observed rate in the rHA group suggesting there were no differences between 
the groups. 
Because  of  the  choice  of  the  selected  level  for  the  tests  of  non-inferiority  (5  %  one  sided)  the  per-
protocol  non-inferiority  test  was  repeated  using  a  one-sided  Type  I  error  rate  of  2.5%:  to  provide 
evidence  that  the  experiment-wise  error  rate  did  not  exceed  2.5%  (one-sided).  Repeating  the  non-
inferiority analyses did not change the conclusions originally. 
A subset of the participants of the study was included in an extension study to receive a second dose 
of  either  vaccines.  As  the  non-inferiority  in  terms  of  immunogenicity  had  already  been  shown  post 
dose 1, it was considered acceptable that no additional information post dose 2 (which is a catch up 
rather  than  a  booster  immunization)  was  necessary.  Safety  data  were  nonetheless  provided  as 
discussed further under the relevant section. 
Clinical safety 
Page 28/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  measles,  mumps,  rubella  vaccine,  live  was  first  licensed  in  1978  and  since  that  time  in  many 
countries  around  the  world.  Extensive  experience  has  been  accumulated  and  is  estimated  that  more 
than 400 million of doses have been administered during the last 25 years to infants in the age range of 
12 to 24 months.  
This new product related to a new formulation of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live)  
replacing  Human  Serum  Albumin  (HSA)  by  recombinant  Human  Albumin  (rHA)  and  adjusting  the 
end of expiry potency of the mumps component to 4.1 log TCID 50.  
• 
Patient exposure 
In the mump end expiry clinical study 007 a total of 1997 subjects were vaccinated concomitantly 
with both measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) with HSA and varicella live vaccine. Because 
study 007 was not conducted with the M-M-RVAXPRO, safety data are not so relevant. It showed 
however that adjusting the end of expiry potency of the mumps component to 4.1 log10 TCID50 
would not have any effect on the safety of M-M-RVAXPRO. 
Safety  data  presented  derive  therefore  from  the  rHA  replacement  clinical  study  009  in  which  641 
subjects  were  vaccinated  with  M-M-RVAXPRO  with  rHA  and  638  subjects  were  vaccinated  with 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) with HSA. Subjects received a single dose of either study 
vaccine and were followed for adverse events for 42 days postvaccination. 
•  Adverse events  
The safety analyses were based on comparisons (using risk differences and associated 95% CIs) of the 
incidence  rates  in  each  treatment  group  of  local  and  systemic  adverse  experiences  and  of  elevated 
temperatures (38.9°C, oral equivalent) that occurred within 42 days postvaccination. 
Table 14 provides a summary of clinical adverse experiences by treatment group along with risk 
differences for comparisons of individual adverse experience between groups. 
Page 29/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: Comparison of Treatment Groups With Respect to Clinical Adverse Experiences Reported in study 
009 (Days 1 to 42 Following Vaccination) 
M-M-
RVAXPROWith  
rHA 
Measles, 
mumps, rubella 
live vaccine 
With HSA 
(N=641) 
(N=638) 
n 
Number of subjects                                         641 
Subjects without follow-up                            
7 
Subjects with follow-up                                  634 
Number (%) of subjects:                                
  with no adverse experience                           114 
  with one or more adverse experiences          520 
    injection-site adverse experiences               227 
    systemic adverse experiences                      469 
  with vaccine-related adverse experiences‡
308 
    injection-site adverse experiences               226 
    systemic adverse experiences                      139 
3 
  with serious adverse experiences                 
  with serious vaccine-related‡adverse 
0 
experiences                 
  who died                                                      
  discontinued due to an adverse 
experience                                    
  discontinued due to a vaccine-
related‡adverse experience         
  discontinued due to a serious adverse 
experience                             
  discontinued due to a serious vaccine-
related‡adverse experience 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(%) 
(18.0) 
(82.0) 
(35.8) 
(74.0) 
(48.6) 
(35.6) 
(21.9) 
(0.5) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
n 
638 
6 
632 
126 
506 
188 
465 
276 
187 
149 
5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(%) 
(19.9) 
(80.1) 
(29.7) 
(73.6) 
(43.7) 
(29.6) 
(23.6) 
(0.8) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
Risk Difference 
([M-M-RVAXPROWith  rHA]- 
[Measles, mumps, rubella live 
vaccine With HSA]) 
Percentage Points 
(95% Confidence Interval) †
-2.0 (-6.3, 2.4) 
2.0 (-2.4, 6.3) 
6.1 (0.9, 11.2) 
0.4 (-4.5, 5.2) 
4.9 (-0.6, 10.4) 
6.1 (0.9, 11.2) 
-1.7 (-6.3, 3.0) 
-0.3 (-1.4, 0.7) 
0.0 (-0.6, 0.6) 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
†   Risk differences and confidence intervals are based on the pooled incidence rates across study centers. 
‡   Determined by the investigator to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to the vaccine. 
Percentages are calculated based on the number of subjects with follow-up. 
N=Number of subjects vaccinated in each treatment group. 
rHA=Recombinant human albumin. 
HSA=Human serum albumin. 
N/A=Not applicable. 
The  results  showed  a  statistically  significant  increase  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  M-M-
RVAXPRO group who experienced injection site reactions during Days 1-42 p.v. (35.8 % vs. 29.7 %). 
For  Days  1  to  5  following  vaccination,  the  rate  of  injection-site  adverse  reactions  was  significantly 
higher among recipients of M-M-RVAXPRO compared to recipients of measles, mumps, rubella live 
vaccine with HSA (35.6% versus 29.1%, 95% CI = 1.4% to 11.7%). The majority of the injection-site 
reactions were either injection site pain or injection-site swelling, which disappeared within 48 hours 
postvaccination. Among recipients of M-M-RVAXPRO, 27.3% reported injection-site pain, compared 
with 21.8% of recipients of measles, mumps, rubella live vaccine with HSA (risk difference = 5.5%, 
p-value = 0.024). The risk difference between the 2 groups for the incidence of injection-site swelling 
was  3.6%  (p-value  =  0.026),  with  10.9%  of  subjects  who  received  M-M-RVAXPRO  and  7.3%  of 
subjects  who  received  measles,  mumps,  rubella  live  vaccine  with  HSA  reporting  this  adverse 
experience. The overall incidence of injection site reactions in this study was within the range of other 
studies with M-M-R II. The reactions were generally mild and transient. There was no case of severe 
pain  ever  or  large  erythema  or  swelling  in  the  test  group.  Therefore  although  there  is  no  apparent 
explanation  of  the  differences  in  injection  site  experiences  between  the  two  treatment  groups,  this 
difference is not considered to be clinically relevant. 
There  were  relatively  few  reports  of  morbilliform  rash  (3.2%  of  subjects  vaccinated  with  M-M-
RVAXPRO  and  1.7%  of  subjects  vaccinated  measles,  mumps,  rubella  live  vaccine  with  HSA)  or 
rubelliform  rash  (0%  of  subjects  and  0.2%  respectively),  and  the  differences  in  incidence  rates 
between  the  2  treatment  groups  were  not  statistically  significant  for  either  type  of  rash  (p-value  = 
0.104 and 0.317, respectively). No cases of mumps-like symptoms were reported in either treatment 
group. 
Page 30/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although a greater proportion of subjects who received M-M-RVAXPRO (17.6%) than subjects who 
received measles, mumps, rubella live vaccine with HSA (14.6%) experienced an elevated temperature 
(38.9°C), oral equivalent during Days 1 to 42 postvaccination, the difference between the 2 treatment 
groups was not statistically significant (risk difference = 3.0%, p-value = 0.159). The fevers were 
generally mild and short of duration. 
One  of  the  main  purposes  of  conducting  Protocol  009  was  to  explore  the  possibility  that  the  rHA 
present  as  a  manufacturing  residual  could  provoke  an  immune  reaction.    These  potentially  allergic 
reactions,  defined  as  “adverse  experiences  of  special  interest”  in  the  protocol  included  urticaria, 
angioedema,  non-injection-site  rash  (including  maculopapular  and  generalized  erythematous  rashes, 
but excluding eczematous and other simple, localized rashes [e.g., diaper rash]), wheezing, collapse or 
shock-like  state  (onset  within  48  hours  of  vaccination),  and  unexpected  serious  adverse  experiences 
that were potentially allergic reactions.  
The proportion of subjects who experienced any of these reactions was similar in both treatment 
groups: 87 out of 634 subjects (13.7%) vaccinated with M-M-RVAXPRO and 87 out of 632 subjects 
(13.8%) vaccinated with measles, mumps, rubella live vaccine with HSA.  The most commonly 
reported was non-injection-site rash, observed in 9.9% of the subjects in the M-M-RVAXPRO and in 
9.8% of subjects in the measles, mumps, rubella live vaccine with HSA group.  The incidence rates of 
wheezing, urticaria, and angioedema were low (<3%) and well balanced between the 2 treatment 
groups. No statistical difference was observed when comparing the incidence rates of these adverse 
experiences of special interest between the 2 treatment groups (95% CI risk difference for each 
comparison contains 0). These adverse experiences of special interest were generally mild or 
moderate. No subjects from either treatment group experienced collapse or shock-like state (onset 
within 48 hours of vaccination) or unexpected serious adverse experiences that were potentially 
allergic reactions.   
To further address the potential allerginicity, the applicant provided the results of an extension to the 
previously mentioned safety and immunogenicity study (Protocol 009 Extension Study). This study 
was conducted in 373 healthy, 3- to 5-year-old children who were previously enrolled in the Protocol 
009 Base Study and who were vaccinated with a second dose of either v (194 subjects) or measles, 
mumps, rubella live vaccine with HSA (179 subjects). This study was conducted in the U.S., where 
the second dose of measles, mumps and rubella vaccine is recommended routinely at 4 to 6 years of 
age but can be administered at any visit provided at least 4 weeks have elapsed since the first 
vaccination given at or after 12 months of age.  The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate 
that a second dose of M-M-RVAXPRO was generally well tolerated.   
Numerous  analyses  were  made  showing  that  a  second  dose  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  was  not  associated 
with  an  increase  in  the  incidence  and  severity  of  clinical  symptoms,  including  those  suggestive  of 
hypersensitivity reaction.  
From experience gained with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) over decades it is unlikely 
that identical gelatine contained in M-M-RVAXPRO will cause an increase in gelatine specific 
allergic reactions. 
The safety database is still limited (642 subjects who received a primary dose of M-M-RVAXPRO 
and 194 subjects who received a second dose). The applicant committed to perform a post-
authorisation safety study to collect additional safety data on approximately 3000 subjects receiving  2 
doses of M-M-RVAXPRO a few months apart. 
Although no rHA specific antibodies have been detected so far, the potential risk of allergic reaction 
sensitization due rHA, triggered by a first dose of M-M-RVAXPRO followed potentially by more 
severe allergic reactions upon administration of a second dose cannot be excluded. As well as the 
Protocol 009 extension study in which a subset of original recipients received a second dose of M-M-
RVAXPRO, the effect of repeat exposure to Recombumin® 20% has been tested in a large Phase 1 
clinical trial specifically designed to solicit a maximum immunological response. Nevertheless 
appropriate pharmacovigilance activities described under the risk management programme section 
have been proposed to address this potential risk.  
Page 31/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risk of allergic reactions to the yeast impurities present in M-M-RVAXPRO was considered 
unlikely in view of the calculated maximum yeast antigen content per dose of vaccine. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In protocol 009 only 8 subjects (3 recipients of M-M-RVAXPRO and 5 recipients of measles, mumps 
and  rubella  live  vaccine  with  HSA)  experienced  serious  adverse  experiences,  none  of  which  were 
determined to be vaccine-related. There were no deaths in the study. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
No specific laboratory analyses other than vaccine specific serology (immunogenicity and anti rHA 
antibodies) were performed. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
No safety studies in special populations are required for this type of vaccine. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Since  a  similar  safety  (and  efficacy)  profile  was  demonstrated  for  M-M-RVAXPRO  compared  to 
MMR II it is acceptable to extrapolate the safety data from concomitant use of measles, mumps, and 
rubella vaccine (live) with these vaccines. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
There were no discontinuations due to AES in pivotal studies 007 and 009. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
Since equivalence (non-inferiority) was demonstrated for M-M-RVAXPRO compared to measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) it is not expected that post marketing experiences for M-M-
RVAXPRO will differ from those made with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live). This data 
have therefore been included in the SPC. 
1.4  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The description of the Pharmacovigilance system of the applicant was provided during the procedure.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk 
Page 32/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-marketing surveillance using pre-specified 
quantitative analysis of spontaneous reporting  
Potential risk  
of rHA-related 
hypersensitivity 
reactions especially 
after the second dose 
Limited safety 
database 
Safety study to collect additional safety data on 
approximately 3000 subjects receiving 2 doses 
of M-M-RVAXPRO a few months apart 
minimisation activities 
Warning in the SPC to 
exercise caution when 
using any product 
containing recombinant 
human albumin in 
individuals who previously 
showed signs of 
hypersensitivity to rHA 
There will be a transition period where both M-M-RVAXPRO vaccine and measles, mumps, rubella 
(live) vaccine containing HSA will be on the market. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
1.5  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
M-M-RVAXPRO is a trivalent live vaccine for immunisation against measles, mumps and rubella. 
The three virus components are: the more attenuated vaccine strain of measles virus (derived from 
Enders’ attenuated Edmonston strain), the Jeryl Lynn strain of mumps virus, and the Wistar RA 27/3 
strain of live attenuated rubella virus. The one of the difference between the existing measles, mumps 
and rubella vaccine (live) and M-M-RVAXPRO resides in the replacement of human serum albumin 
(HSA) with recombinant human albumin (rHA) during the manufacturing of measles, mumps, and 
rubella viral bulks. The quality aspects of the vaccine have been adequately addressed.  
M-M-RVAXPRO, as other live attenuated vaccines, has only a few purification steps, resulting in a 
residual traces of rHA remaining in the vaccine. Based on this, the product information includes a 
statement on the theoretical risk of sensitization reactions to recombinant human albumin. The 
applicant committed to fulfil several follow-up measures to provide further information post-approval. 
There are no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the benefit-risk ratio. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Clinical experience with the existing measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) has been accumulated 
over  decades.  In  addition,  for  M-M-RVAXPRO  extensive  testing  has  been  performed  on  material 
obtained  at  various  steps  in  the  manufacturing  process  to  assure  that  each  vaccine  bulk  and  each 
finished  product  is  free  from  adventitious  agents  that  might  be  introduced  during  manufacturing.  It 
was considered that new toxico-pharmacological testing would not provide additional information on 
the safety profile of this new vaccine in comparison with the existing one, as supported by with the 
CHMP  scientific  advice.  This  is  also  in  line  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Preclinical 
Pharmacological and Toxicological testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP465/95). 
Efficacy 
Page 33/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M-M-RVAXPRO  contains  the  same  vaccine  virus  strains  as  currently  authorised  trivalent  measles, 
mumps, and rubella vaccine. Two changes have been introduced regarding the formulation of M-M-
RVAXPRO: 
- 
- 
A  fixed  end  of  expiry  potency  of  the  mumps  component  (4.1  instead  of  4.8 log TCID 50 per 
dose) 
And Human Serum Albumin (HSA) was replaced by recombinant Human Albumin (rHA), as an 
excipient in the growth media.  
In  the  double-blind,  randomised,  multicenter  study  007,  a  total  of  1997  subjects  were  vaccinated 
concomitantly with both measles, mumps and rubella live vaccine and varicella live vaccine. Results 
supported  the  claim  that  the  end  of  expiry  potency  of  the  mumps  component  is  non-inferior  to  the 
current  release  specification  for  that  vaccine  component  (4.1  log  Tissue  Culture  Infectious  Dose  50 
instead of the current 4.8 log TCID 50). 
In  the  l  double-blind,  randomized,  multicentre  study  009,  641  subjects  were  vaccinated  with  M-M-
RVAXPRO and 638 subjects were vaccinated with measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) with 
HSA.  Results  showed  that  M-M-RVAXPRO  is  equivalent  (non-inferior)  to  the  currently  licensed 
measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  vaccine  in  terms  of  immunogenicity,  i.e.  response 
(seroconversion) rates and GMTs.  
At present no data are available on the intramuscularly administration, thus M-M-RVAXPRO should 
only  be  used  subcutaneously  as  be  stated  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.    A  study  has 
recently  been  initiated  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  when 
administered via the subcutaneous or the intramuscular route, respectively, the results of which will be 
provided as part of the follow-up measures to be submitted post-authorisation.  
Safety 
The safety database derives mainly from study 009 in which 642 subjects received a primary dose of 
M-M-RVAXPRO  and  640  received  a  primary  dose  of  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live) 
vaccine with HSA. For the majority of clinical adverse experiences reported no significant difference 
could  be  observed  for  M-M-RVAXPRO  compared  to  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live) 
vaccine.  In  this  study,  there  were  higher  frequencies  of  injection  site  reactions  with  M-M-
RVAXPRO nonetheless in retrospective comparison showed that these were within the rate observed 
in  previous  studies  with  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  vaccine.  These  reactions  were 
mild  and  transient.  The  numerically  higher  fever  rate  was  considered  to  be  also  within  the  range 
observed in previous studies and of no clinical importance. 
The  effect  of  a  second  dose  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  were  evaluated  in  an  extension  study,  involving 
participants  from  study  009  who  received  either  a  2nd  dose  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  (n  =  194)  or 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) vaccine (n = 179). Adverse reactions of special interest, 
i.e.  those  being  indicative  for  an  allergic  reaction  were  specifically  monitored.  Numerous  analyses 
were  made  and  no  differences  between  the  two  groups  were  detected,  including  no  increase  in 
potential  allergic  reactions  is  observed  after  a  second  dose  of  M-M-RVAXPRO.  Moreover,  all 
adverse reactions (severe or not including those signaling potential allergic reactions) decreased after 
the  second  dose  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  or  measles,  mumps,  and  rubella  vaccine  (live)  vaccine 
indicating the absence of any re-exposure effects mediated by rHA or any other vaccine component. 
Antibodies against rHA were not detectable in sera of individuals vaccinated with M-M-RVAXPRO 
at day 42 following first and second dose injection as evidenced by an anti rHA antibody ELISA. 
All the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing with the current formulation of 
measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) vaccine have been included in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Page 34/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
M-M-RVAXPRO, a childhood vaccine which has been developed to harmonise the expiry titer for the 
mumps components of this combination vaccine and to support the replacement of human serum 
albumin with recombinant human albumin in the manufacturing of measles, mumps and rubella viral 
bulks. There are no fundamental changes proposed in the indication or dosing schedule of this new 
vaccine compared to the authorised one using human serum albumin. 
M-M-RVAXPRO has been demonstrated to be non-inferior in terms of immunogenicity and also in 
terms of safety compared to measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (live) vaccine.  
A risk management plan was submitted and includes pharmacovigilance activities to further monitor 
potential change in the safety profile related to the replacement of HSA with rHA. Although no rHA 
specific antibodies have been detected so far in the clinical studies, even after administration of a 
second dose, a theoretical risk of hypersensitivity to rHA cannot be ruled out.  
In addition the applicant will perform a post-marketing safety study to increase the safety database in 
particular after second dose of vaccine. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk 
minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  M-M-RVAXPRO  in  the  prophylaxis  of  “simultaneous 
vaccination against measles, mumps, and rubella in individuals 12 months or older. For use in measles 
outbreaks,  or  for  post-exposure  vaccination  of  non-pregnant  adolescent  and  adult  subjects,  or, 
previously unvaccinated children older than 12 months who are in contact with susceptible pregnant 
women,  and  persons  likely  to  be  susceptible  to  mumps  and  rubella”  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 35/35 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
