V205C
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 5.0
PAGE 37
MEASLES, MUMPS, AND RUBELLA
(WISTAR RA 27-3) VIRUS VACCINE, LIVE
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
M-M-RVAXPRO®. 
The RMP details important risks of M-M-RVAXPRO® that require additional 
pharmacovigilance (PV) activities and/or additional risk minimization activities, beyond 
routine PV and risk minimization activities, and how more information will be obtained 
about M-M-RVAXPRO®'s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
M-M-RVAXPRO®’s EU Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how
M-M-RVAXPRO® should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for M-M-RVAXPRO® should be read in the context of all of this 
information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new safety concerns or changes to the current ones will be provided in updates of 
M-M-RVAXPRO®'s RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
M-M-RVAXPRO® is authorised for simultaneous vaccination against measles, mumps, and 
rubella in individuals 12 months of age or older (see SmPC for full indication). It contains 
live measles, mumps, and rubella vaccines as the active substances and it is given 
subcutaneously.
Further information about the evaluation of M-M-RVAXPRO® benefits can be found in 
M-M-RVAXPRO®’s EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/m-m-rvaxpro.
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of M-M-RVAXPRO®, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about M-M-RVAXPRO®'s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
EU SmPC and package leaflet addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;

 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
05CQTL
 
 
V205C
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 5.0
PAGE 38
MEASLES, MUMPS, AND RUBELLA
(WISTAR RA 27-3) VIRUS VACCINE, LIVE
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of M-M-RVAXPRO® are risks that need special risk management activities
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of M-M-RVAXPRO®. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine).
There are currently no important risks or missing information for M-M-RVAXPRO® that 
require additional, special risk management activities beyond routine PV and routine risk 
minimization activities.
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
The safety information in the proposed EU SmPC is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. There are no identified risks, potential risks, or missing information in this RMP. 
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or a specific 
obligation of M-M-RVAXPRO®.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for M-M-RVAXPRO®.
05CQTL
 
 
