20 February 2013 
EMA/78481/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
M-M-RVAXPRO 
Measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (live) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000622/A-20/0045 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1. Measles, mumps and rubella containing vaccines in pregnancy ................................ 3 
2.1.2. Measles, mumps and rubella containing vaccines in immunocompromised individuals 5 
2.2. Product information .............................................................................................. 6 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 7 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................... 7 
5. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 9 
Appendix ................................................................................................... 10 
Divergent positions ................................................................................................ 10 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 2/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular for 
pregnant women it was considered  justified to review whether all monovalent and multivalent 
measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccines should remain contraindicated in pregnant 
women as vaccination in some individual cases may outweigh the risk. 
Published data also indicated that other groups of subjects than pregnant women could benefit from a 
MMRV vaccine (e.g. patients with deficiency or specific pneumococcal antibody deficiency) and 
therefore the contraindication for immunocompromised individuals needed to be reviewed. 
In  view  of  the  above  the  European  Commission  initiated  a  procedure  under  Article  20  of  Regulation 
(EC)  No  726/2004.  The  European  Commission  requested  the  CHMP  on  15  March  2012  to  assess  the 
above  concerns  and  its  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  for  M-M-RVAXPRO,  and  to  give  its  opinion  on 
measures  necessary  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  M-M-RVAXPRO,  and  on  whether  the 
marketing authorisation for this product should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
M-M-RVAXPRO  is  a  trivalent  vaccine  containing  the  components  of  measles,  mumps  and  rubella  live 
attenuated viruses. M-M-RVAXPRO has been authorised by the European Commission for simultaneous 
vaccination against measles, mumps and rubella in individuals from 12 months of age since May 2006.  
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular when 
inadvertently administrated to pregnant women, it was considered justified to review whether M-M-
RVAXPRO should remain contraindicated in pregnant women as vaccination in some individual cases 
may outweigh the risk.  
In addition, published data also indicated that some groups of individuals other than pregnant women 
could benefit from a MMRV vaccine and therefore the contraindication for immunocompromised 
subjects needed to be reviewed. 
Evidence from post marketing surveillance and published literature that focused on risk of spontaneous 
abortion, miscarriage, stillbirth, immaturity and low birth weight in women susceptible to measles, 
mumps and/or rubella and risk of malformation and congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) in offspring of 
such women were considered for the review of the contraindication on pregnancy. 
Regarding the contraindication on immunocompromised subjects, an assessment of the experience 
with MMR vaccines concerning safety in subjects with various types of immune deficiencies (e.g. T-cell 
defects, sub-class deficiencies etc.) was provided. 
Relevant data is discussed below. 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
2.1.1.  Measles, mumps and rubella containing vaccines in pregnancy 
Vaccination  against  measles,  mumps  and  rubella  is  contraindicated  in  pregnant  women.  Therefore, 
only  limited  data  are  available  on  spontaneous  abortion,  malformations  or  CRS  of  women  vaccinated 
with MMR vaccines. 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 3/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Data from post marketing surveillance and published literature regarding MMR vaccines were 
considered by the CHMP.  
Post-marketing database identified 971 individual case safety reports (ICSRs) for MMR vaccines and 78 
(ICSRs) for monovalent rubella vaccines in women who were pregnant when vaccinated with these 
vaccines. No case of CRS has been identified and the number of congenital malformations or 
spontaneous abortions did not indicate a safety concern related to the inadvertent vaccination with 
MMR vaccines during pregnancy. In addition, three retrospective cases from spontaneous reporting in 
which congenital anomalies were reported in liveborn and where one case had characteristic of CRS 
were provided. However, the cases were also poorly documented. The frequency of spontaneous 
abortion and congenital anomalies reported was as expected for pregnant women that have not been 
vaccinated. 
The CHMP considered that mumps virus has been shown to infect the placenta and foetus, although 
there is no evidence that mumps vaccines can cause congenital malformations in humans (Plotkin et 
al. 20081). In contrast to rubella and mumps virus, measles virus does not cross the placenta and 
therefore does not infect the foetus.  
The incidence of CRS following inadvertent vaccination of pregnant women has been evaluated through 
rubella registries in the U.S. and Europe and through surveillance for cases during more recent mass 
vaccination campaigns. A total of 680 live births to rubella-susceptible women were evaluated. It was 
shown that none of the infants was found to have CRS. Based on these data a maximum theoretical 
risk for CRS of 0.5% for infants born to mothers vaccinated within three months of pregnancy was 
found, and a maximum theoretical risk of 1.3% for infants born to mothers vaccinated within the first 
20 weeks of pregnancy (Morice et al. 20092). The overall estimated theoretical risk of severe 
malformations attributed to the vaccine strain against rubella varies between 0 and 1.6% (Bozzo et al. 
20113; Watson et al. 19984). 
Further data are available from surveillance of a mass vaccinations campaign between 2001 and 2008 
for rubella and congenital rubella syndrome elimination in the Americas (Castillo et al.5). More than 
2000 pregnant women were followed-up and classified as susceptible at the time of vaccination. During 
this campaign, no case of CRS due to the vaccine strain was diagnosed.  
When considering the data from studies in the literature and the data from post-marketing surveillance 
the CHMP concluded that although a theoretical risk cannot be excluded, no cases of CRS have been 
reported in more than 3500 susceptible women who were unknowingly in early stages of pregnancy 
when vaccinated against rubella. 
Because of this theoretical teratogenic risk, the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended in 
2011 that vaccination against rubella should be avoided in principle, in pregnant women and women 
who intend to become pregnant should be advised to delay for 1 month following rubella vaccination6. 
1 Plotkin SA, Orenstein WA and Offit PA. Mumps vaccine. Vaccines 2008;435-65 
2 Morice A, Ulloa-Gutierrez R, and Avila-Agüero ML. Congenital rubella syndrome: progress and future challenges. Expert 
Rev Vaccines. 2009 Mar;8(3):323-31 
3 Bozzo P, Narducci A, and Einarson A. Vaccination during pregnancy. Can Fam Physician. 2011 May;57(5):555-7 
4 Watson JC, Hadler SC, Dykewicz CA, et al. Measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine use and strategies for elimination of 
measles, rubella, and congenital rubella syndrome and control of mumps: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on 
Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR Recomm Rep. 1998 May 22;47(RR-8):1-57 
5 Castillo-Solorzano C, Reef SE, Morice A et al. Rubella vaccination of unknowingly pregnant women during mass campaigns 
for rubella and congenital rubella syndrome elimination, the Americas 2001-2008. J Infect Dis 2011;204 Suppl 2:S713-7 
6 World  Health  Organization.  Rubella 
http://www.who.int/wer/2011/wer8629.pdf 29(86) Ref Type: Internet Communication 
vaccines:  WHO  position  paper.301-316.15-7-2011.  Available  on 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 4/13 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
 
Current data indicate that rubella IgM after vaccination peaks around 30 days after vaccination and 
IgG is also detectable.  
Having considered all available data, the CHMP is of the opinion that M-M-RVAXPRO should continue to 
be contraindicated in pregnant women. Taking into account that rubella vaccination induces a fast 
immune response that make post-exposure prophylaxis possible, based on available evidence and as 
reflected in WHO recommendation, the CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to reduce the 
period post-vaccination where pregnancy should be avoided. The product information is therefore 
amended accordingly to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination 
instead of 3 months. For completeness, the product information was updated to reflect the most recent 
published data regarding vaccination against rubella in pregnant women. Based on the low theoretical 
teratogenic risk and the fact that no case of CRS has been reported, it should be also mentioned in the 
SmPC that inadvertent vaccination of unknowingly pregnant women with M-M-RVAXPRO should not be 
a reason for termination of pregnancy. 
2.1.2.  Measles, mumps and rubella containing vaccines in 
immunocompromised individuals 
Vaccination  of  immunocompromised  individuals  with  live  attenuated  viral  MMR  vaccines  is  generally 
contraindicated, however some subjects may benefit from vaccination. 
Based on evidence available from clinical trials and post marketing safety surveillance, the CHMP 
acknowledged that M-M-RVAXPRO should remain contraindicated in subjects with severely impaired 
humoral and/or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
agammaglobulinemia. However, individuals with selected or non-specific immune deficiencies such as 
isolated IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease, and 
complement deficiency diseases might benefit from vaccination. Data from literature (Moss W and 
Lederman H. 19987) indicated that these immunocompromised subjects do not appear to be at higher 
risk of complications than the general populations. Moreover, most national immunisation committees 
and expert groups recommend that children with minor immune deficiencies should receive MMR 
vaccination.  
The  CHMP  agreed  that  patients  with  various  IgG  subclass  deficiencies  are  not  able  to  develop  an 
appropriate  antibody  response  to  vaccines  including  MMR  vaccines  and  therefore,  there  is  a  risk  of 
serious  adverse  events  from  the  use  of  lives  attenuated  viral  vaccines  in  this  group  of  patients.  The 
contraindication should remain in this specific subpopulation. 
Because  wild-type  measles  can  result  in  severe  disease  in  HIV-infected  children  vaccination  is 
especially important for HIV-infected children. Severely immunocompromised HIV infected children and 
adults  should  not  receive  M-M-RVAXPRO,  however  there  is  sufficient  evidence  that  MMR  vaccinations 
are  safe  for  HIV-infected  persons  who  have  mild  and  moderate  clinical  disease  and  adequate  CD4 
counts. Therefore, the CHMP proposed a modification of the existing contraindication to specify that for 
HIV, the WHO classification of HIV-related disease in adults and children published in 2006 should be 
applied as follows : 
“Immunological  criteria  for  diagnosing  advanced  HIV  in  a  child  younger  than  five  years  of  age  with 
severe HIV infection: 
%CD4+ <25 among those younger than 12 months 
%CD4+ <20 among those aged 12–35 months 
7 Moss W, Lederman H. Immunization of the immunocompromised host. Clin Focus Primary Immune Defic. 1998;1:1-8 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 5/13 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
%CD4+ <15 among those aged 36–59 months” 
Therefore,  in  children  with  severe  HIV  infection  vaccination  is  contraindicated.  As  indicated  above,  in 
individuals  with  selected  immune  deficiencies  (e.g.  IgG  subclass  deficiencies,  congenital  neutropenia, 
chronic granulomatous disease, and complement deficiency diseases) vaccination may be considered, if 
the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
In view of the above, the CHMP concludes that the current contraindication for use of M-M-RVAXPRO in 
immunocompromised  subjects  should  be  amended  to  clarify  that,  according  to  WHO  guidelines  and 
scientific  data,  for  HIV-infected  patients  age  specific  %CD4+  is  to  be  included.  Moreover,  a  warning 
should be added as vaccination may be considered in subjects with selected immune deficiencies (e.g. 
IgG  subclass  deficiencies,  congenital  neutropenia,  chronic  granulomatous  disease,  and  complement 
deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
2.2.  Product information 
The CHMP recommended the following amendments to be introduced in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflets (PL). 
Summary of Product Characteristics  
Pregnancy 
The section 4.3 (Contraindications) and section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation) of the SmPC 
should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following 
vaccination instead of 3 months.  
The section 4.6 should also reflect that inadvertent vaccination of unknowingly pregnant women with 
M-M-RVAXPRO should not be a reason for termination of pregnancy. It should also be mentioned that 
even if a theoretical risk cannot be excluded no cases of congenital rubella syndrome have been 
reported in more than 35000 susceptible women who were unknowingly in early stages of pregnancy 
when vaccinated with rubella containing vaccines. 
Immunocompromised individuals 
The section 4.3 should also reflect that vaccination with M-M-RVAXPRO is contraindicated in subjects 
with severe humoral or cellular (primary or acquired) immunodeficiency and for HIV-infected patients 
an age specific %CD4+ is to be included. 
The section 4.4 should reflect that vaccination may be considered in patients with selected immune 
deficiencies (e.g. IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease, 
and complement deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
Note: The telephone number of the local representative in Malta has been updated.  
Package Leaflet  
In line with the recommendation made in the SmPC, the section “Do not use” and “Pregnancy and 
breastfeeding” should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month 
following vaccination instead of 3 months. 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 6/13 
 
 
  
 
 
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
M-M-RVAXPRO is a trivalent vaccine which is indicated in vaccination of individuals from 12 months of 
age against measles, mumps and rubella viruses. Vaccination with M-M-RVAXPRO is contraindicated in 
pregnant women and in immunocompromised subjects. 
The CHMP reviewed all available evidence regarding these specific populations, notably data from post-
marketing surveillance including data from a pregnancy registry, published literature and available 
guidance, such as the WHO recommendation.  
Regarding vaccination in pregnant women, it was noted that M-M-RVAXPRO is contraindicated in 
pregnant women and therefore only limited data of spontaneous abortion, malformations, congenital 
rubella syndrome (CRS) following vaccination were available. Evidence of transplacental transmission 
of mumps and rubella wild-type virus is known, however measles viruses do not cross the placenta and 
therefore do not infect the fetus. The evidence to date does not indicate a safety concern with respect 
to spontaneous abortion or congenital malformations related to the inadvertent administration of MMR 
vaccines in pregnant women. In addition, no cases of CRS have been reported in post-marketing 
surveillance or in published literature. However, it was noted by the CHMP that follow-up data of 
children of pregnant mothers exposed to monovalent or multivalent MMR vaccines virus were lacking 
and were too poorly documented to draw any conclusion. 
The CHMP considers that an estimated theoretical risk of CRS cannot be ruled out. It was also noted 
that available guidance, such as WHO recommendations, takes into account this theoretical teratogenic 
risk and states that rubella containing vaccines should be avoided in principle in pregnant women.  
The CHMP concluded that the contraindication of M-M-RVAXPRO in pregnant women remains. However, 
the CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to amend the product information and reflect that 
pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination instead of 3 months, in line with 
current WHO recommendations. In addition, the product information should reflect the most recent 
published data regarding inadvertent vaccination against rubella in pregnant women. 
Regarding vaccination of immunocompromised subjects with M-M-RVAXPRO the CHMP considered that 
although this vaccine should continue to be contraindicated, some individuals may benefit from 
vaccination.   
The CHMP acknowledged that M-M-RVAXPRO should remain contraindicated in patients with severely 
impaired humoral or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
agammaglobulinemia. However, the CHMP concludes that the current contraindication for use of M-M-
RVAXPRO in immunocompromised subjects should be amended to clarify that, according to WHO 
guidelines and scientific data, for HIV-infected patients age specific %CD4+ is to be included. 
Moreover, a warning should be added as vaccination may be considered in patients with selected 
immune deficiencies (e.g. IgG subclass deficiencies, congenital neutropenia, chronic granulomatous 
disease, and complement deficiency diseases), if the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
4.  Overall conclusion 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAH, the CHMP concluded that M-M-
RVAXPRO should remain contraindicated during pregnancy. However, the CHMP was of the opinion that 
the current data were sufficient to amend the product information in order to reflect that pregnancy 
should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination with M-M-RVAXPRO and to reflect the most recent 
published data on rubella vaccination in pregnancy. 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 7/13 
 
 
  
 
 
With regard to the immunocompromised patients, the CHMP concluded that in view of the available 
data vaccination with M-M-RVAXPRO should continue to be contraindicated in severely impaired 
humoral and/or cellular immune systems such as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and 
hypogammaglobulinemia, however, vaccination may be considered in patients with selected immune 
deficiencies when the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. 
The CHMP recommended the amendment to the terms of the marketing authorisation for M-M-
RVAXPRO for which the revised summary of product characteristics and package leaflet are set out 
respectively in annexes I and IIIB of the opinion. 
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of the SmPC, Annex II and package 
leaflet are set out in Annex II of the opinion. 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 8/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
the CHMP considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for M-M-
RVAXPRO initiated by the European Commission.  
the CHMP reviewed all available data regarding use in pregnant women and in 
immunocompromised patients of rubella containing vaccines, including the most recent 
publications and data from post-marketing surveillance for monovalent and multivalent 
measles, mumps and rubella vaccines. 
The CHMP concluded 
• 
• 
• 
that the data provided were too limited and poorly documented to draw any conclusion and 
therefore without any sufficient data M-M-RVAXPRO should remain contraindicated during 
pregnancy. 
that the data were sufficient to amend the product information to mention that pregnancy 
should be avoided for 1 month (instead of 3 months) following vaccination. The CHMP also 
considered that the most recent published data regarding vaccination against rubella in 
pregnant women should be reflected in the summary of product characteristics. 
that vaccination with M-M-RVAXPRO vaccines may be considered in patients with selected 
immune deficiencies when the benefit outweighs the risk of vaccination. The contraindication in 
this patient population was also further defined by inclusion of age specific %CD4+ for HIV-
infected patients. 
The CHMP has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for M-
M-RVAXPRO in accordance to the Product Information set out in annexes I, II and IIIB. 
The divergent positions are appended to this report. 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 9/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Appendix 
Divergent positions 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 10/13 
 
 
  
 
 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000604/A-20/0045 
M-M-RVAXPRO (Measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (live)) 
Divergent statement 
In  general,  the  use  of  MMRV  vaccines  should  be  avoided  during  pregnancy.  However,  following  the 
guideline on risk assessment of medicinal products on human reproduction and lactation: from data to 
labelling, the absolute contra-indication for pregnancy could be changed.  
This guideline describes that if there are enough data showing no harm during pregnancy, the wording 
in the SPC should be adapted.  
For  rubella  containing  vaccines  which  have  the  highest  theoretical  risk  on  congenital  syndromes  no 
cases  of  congenital  rubella  syndrome  (CRS)  have  been  reported  in  the  literature.  More  than  3500 
children  born  out  of  rubella  sero-negative  mothers  that  were  inadvertently  vaccinated  during  the 
pregnancy are reported without having the CRS. 
Therefore  a  minority  of  the  CHMP  members  proposes  to  downgrade  the  absolute  contraindication  for 
pregnancy to another warning.  
For varicella containing vaccines the contraindication still holds. 
CHMP members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Pieter Neels (BE) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
Jens Heisterberg (DK) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
Pierre Demolis (FR) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
Jacqueline Genoux-Hames (LU) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
Juris Pokrotnieks (LV) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 11/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000604/A-20/0045 
M-M-RVAXPRO (Measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (live)) 
Divergent statement 
In  general,  the  use  of  MMRV  vaccines  should  be  avoided  during  pregnancy.  However,  following  the 
guideline on risk assessment of medicinal products on human reproduction and lactation: from data to 
labelling, the absolute contra-indication for pregnancy could be changed.  
This guideline describes that if there are enough data showing no harm during pregnancy, the wording 
in the SPC should be adapted.  
For  rubella  containing  vaccines  which  have  the  highest  theoretical  risk  on  congenital  syndromes  no 
cases  of  congenital  rubella  syndrome  (CRS)  have  been  reported  in  the  literature.  More  than  3500 
children  born  out  of  rubella  sero-negative  mothers  that  were  inadvertently  vaccinated  during  the 
pregnancy are reported without having the CRS. 
Therefore  a  minority  of  the  CHMP  members  proposes  to  downgrade  the  absolute  contraindication  for 
pregnancy to another warning.  
For varicella containing vaccines the contraindication still holds. 
CHMP member expressing a divergent opinion: 
Jacqueline Genoux-Hames (LU) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 12/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/000604/A-20/0045 
M-M-RVAXPRO (Measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (live)) 
Divergent statement 
In  general,  the  use  of  MMRV  vaccines  should  be  avoided  during  pregnancy.  However,  following  the 
guideline on risk assessment of medicinal products on human reproduction and lactation: from data to 
labelling, the absolute contra-indication for pregnancy could be changed.  
This guideline describes that if there are enough data showing no harm during pregnancy, the wording 
in the SPC should be adapted.  
For  rubella  containing  vaccines  which  have  the  highest  theoretical  risk  on  congenital  syndromes  no 
cases  of  congenital  rubella  syndrome  (CRS)  have  been  reported  in  the  literature.  More  than  3500 
children  born  out  of  rubella  sero-negative  mothers  that  were  inadvertently  vaccinated  during  the 
pregnancy are reported without having the CRS. 
Therefore  a  minority  of  the  CHMP  members  proposes  to  downgrade  the  absolute  contraindication  for 
pregnancy to another warning.  
For varicella containing vaccines the contraindication still holds. 
CHMP member expressing a divergent opinion: 
Karsten Bruins Slot (NO) 
13 December 2012 
Signature: …………………………… 
EMA/78481/2013  
Page 13/13 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
