1. 
Introduction 
Mabthera  (rituximab)  is  a  chimeric  anti-CD20  antibody  with  high  affinity  for  the  CD20  surface 
antigen that is expressed selectively on B lymphocytes. It is currently approved in EU for treatment of 
patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  lymphoma  who  are  chemoresistant  or  are  in  their  second  or 
subsequent  relapse  after  chemotherapy,  for  the  treatment  of  previously  untreated  patients  with  stage 
III-IV follicular lymphoma in combination with CVP chemotherapy and for treatment of patients with 
CD20  positive  diffuse  large  B cell  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  in  combination  with  CHOP 
chemotherapy. The first approval for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) was obtained 
in 1998.  It is estimated that over 700,000 patients with haematological malignancies have been treated 
with rituximab worldwide. 
The applicant has submitted a type II variation in order to extend the approved malignancy indication 
to  include  rituximab  for  the  treatment  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  RA  in  patients  who  have  not 
responded adequately to treatment with anti-tumour necrosis factor inhibitors (anti-TNFs).  
The recommended dosage of MabThera is 1000 mg by i.v. infusion followed by a second 1000 mg IV 
infusion  two  weeks  later.  Patients  may  receive  further  courses  of  treatment,  based  on  signs  and 
symptoms of disease. In clinical studies, no patient received a second course of rituximab  treatment 
within  16  weeks  of  the  first  infusion  of  the  first  course.  The  time  interval  between  courses  was 
variable, with the majority of patients receiving further therapy 6-12 months after the previous course. 
Some  patients  required  even  less  frequent  retreatment.  The  efficacy  and  safety  of  further  courses  is 
comparable to the first course.  
Rheumatoid arthritis patients should receive treatment with 100 mg IV methylprednisolone 30 minutes 
prior to MabThera to decrease the rate and severity of acute infusion reactions. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
B lymphocytes (B cells) are thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis. 
B cells  are  the  primary  source  of  rheumatoid  factors  and  anti-citrullinated  protein  antibodies,  which 
contribute  to  immune  complex  formation  and  complement  activation  in  affected  joints.  B  cells  are 
highly efficient antigen-presenting cells and contribute to T-cell activation through expression of co-
stimulatory molecules. B cells both responds to, and produce, chemokines and cytokines that promote 
leukocyte  infiltration  into  the  joints,  formation  of  ectopic  lymphoid  structures,  angiogenesis,  and 
synovial  hyperplasia  that  characterize  the  pathophysiological  changes  observed  in  the  rheumatoid 
joint.  
In  some  patients,  rheumatoid  synovitis  is  associated  with  the  formation  of  complex  lymphoid 
microstructures,  to  the  extent  that  the  rheumatoid  process  induces  the  formation  of  T  cell-B  cell 
follicles  with  germinal  center  reactions  in  the  synovium  of  affected  joints.  Thus,  B-cell  targeted 
therapy  could  play  a  variety  of  roles  in  RA  through  reduction  in  B-cell  effector  cells,  as  well  as 
downstream effects on other cells that participate in the inflammatory response.  
Rituximab is a chimeric anti-CD20 antibody with high affinity for the CD20 surface antigen, which is 
expressed  selectively  on  B  lymphocytes.  CD20  is  found  on  pre-B  lymphocytes  and  mature  B 
lymphocytes, but not on haematopoietic stem cells, pro-lymphocytes or plasma cells. The binding of 
rituximab to CD20 interferes with the activation and differentiation of B cells.  In vitro, rituximab has 
been  shown  to  induce  apoptosis,  complement-mediated  lysis,  and  antibody-dependent  cellular 
cytotoxicity.  Rituximab  causes  rapid  peripheral  B-cell  depletion  in  vivo.  Several  pilot  studies  in 
patients  with  autoimmune  conditions  including  idiopathic  thrombocytopenia  purpura,  autoimmune 
haemolytic anemia, myasthenia gravis and polyneuropathy, suggest that rituximab induced peripheral 
B-cell depletion may also be efficacious in these conditions.  
The clinical efficacy data for rituximab (2 x 1 g infusions) in combination with methotrexate (MTX) 
and  an  infusional  and  oral  corticosteroid  regimen  in  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  derives  from  one 
pivotal, double-blind, randomized, phase III, global study (WA17042) in RA patients who have had an 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inadequate response to 1) at least one  anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) therapy and 2) no more 
than five disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs).  
Supportive  data  come  from  two  double-blind,  randomized,  phase  II  studies  (WA16291  and 
WA17043) in patients who have previously failed one to five DMARDs, which may include anti-TNF 
medications. 
The  duration  of  each  of  these  studies  was  104  weeks,  with  a  primary  endpoint  at  24  weeks,  after  a 
single  course  of  therapy  (two  rituximab  infusions  15  days  apart).  Additional  information,  including 
efficacy of repeated treatment with rituximab, is provided from the interim analyses of data from the 
following sources:  
•  patients remaining in the original studies beyond week 24  
•  open-label  rescue  treatment  of  placebo  and  lower-dose  (2 x 0.5 g)  rituximab-treated  patients 
from phase IIb (WA17043) and phase III (WA17042) studies. 
•  open-label  treatment  under  the  extension  protocols  WA16855  and  WA17531  providing  the 
opportunity to administer further courses of rituximab treatment (2 x 1 g).  
The clinical cut off date for the inclusion of data in this application was 13 January 2005, the date of 
the  last  week-24  visit  for  the  last  patient  enrolled  into  WA17042.  The  design  of  the  pivotal  study, 
WA17042,  included  in  the  application  was  discussed  with  regulatory  authorities  (Denmark,  Spain, 
Holland, USA) prior to study start.  The application consists of the following studies: 
• 
 Phase  IIa  study  WA16291  –  a  randomised  double  dummy  controlled  parallel  group  study 
with four treatment arms (~ 40 patients per arm): methotrexate (MTX) alone, rituximab alone, 
rituximab + cyclophosphamide or rituximab + MTX. 1000 mg was given by i.v. infusion on 
day 1 and 15.  
•  Phase IIb Study WA17043 - a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, controlled, interna-
tional, multi-factorial study of nine different treatment regimens in a 3 x 3 configuration. The 
study design was comprised of three different dose levels of rituximab (including placebo) and 
three  different  corticosteroid  regimens  (including  placebo),  along  with  a  weekly  regimen  of 
MTX and folate.  Approximately 40 RF-positive patients were to be enrolled into each of the 
nine  possible  combinations.  In  addition,  20  RF-negative  patients  were  to  be  studied  in  four 
different  treatment  regimens:  Placebo  and  high-dose  rituximab  with  differing  corticosteroid 
regimens.  Rituximab 500 or 1000 mg was given by i.v. infusion on day 1 and 15.  
•  Phase  III  Study  WA17042  -  a  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind,  international 
study  of  two  treatment  regimens,  including  one  dose  level  of  rituximab  and  corticosteroids 
(including placebo) along with a weekly regimen of MTX and folate in patients who had an 
inadequate response to anti-TNF therapies. A total of 520 patients were enrolled in this study 
(311 active and 209 placebo patients). 1000 mg was given by i.v. infusion on day 1 and 15.  
In  addition,  the  extension  of  study  16291  included  an  extended  observation  period  out  to  two  years 
post-treatment. In this study patients were eligible to receive re-treatment initially with their original 
regimen  (based  on  presence  of  RA  symptoms  and  in  accordance  with  predefined  criteria  for  re-
treatment) and once the optimal regimen had been identified from the 24-week analysis, re-treatment 
with that regimen was permitted under a new protocol (WA16855).  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
The  Pharmacology  dossier  includes  data  from  the  three  efficacy  studies  where  pharmacological 
parameters have been collected: 
•  Phase  IIa  study  WA16291:  Blood  samples  were  obtained  in  all  patients  for  PK,  PD  and 
HACA assessments. 
•  Phase  III  Study  WA17042:  Blood  samples  were  obtained  in  all  patients  for  PK,  PD  and 
HACA  assessments.  As  blood  sampling  was  limited,  only  the  maximum  concentration 
achieved and t1/2 calculated. 
•  Phase IIb Study WA17043: Blood samples were obtained in all patients for PK (Cmax, Tmax and 
t1/2), PD and HACA assessments.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of rituximab following two IV doses at 500 mg and 1000 mg on days 1 and 15 
is similar to other IgG antibodies. The mean Cmax values for serum rituximab were 453 µg/mL for the 
2  x  1000  mg  dose.  Mean  volume  of  distribution  at  steady  state  was  4.6  L,  which  is  approximately 
equivalent to total blood volume. Mean systemic serum clearance was 0.0096 L/h, and mean terminal 
half-life  after  the  second  infusion  ranged  from  18  to  21  days.  Rituximab  is  to  be  infused  1000  mg 
twice 15 days apart. The infusions may be repeated after return of symptoms. Liniar pharmacokinetics 
is observed within the chosen dose range. Cmax was compared for doses of 500 mg, 1000 mg and 2000 
mg and proportionality was confirmed.  
There  are  no  data  on  kinetics  in  patients  with  renal  disease,  hepatic  disease  or  hypo-proteinemia. 
However,  taking  into  consideration  that  rituximab  has  been  used  in  NHL  patients  without  specific 
dose recommendations for these populations it is considered as acceptable. 
No specific drug interaction studies have been performed. But based pharmacokinetic data from phase 
II and III studies rituximab is not influenced of cyclophosphamides or MTX. However, the Cmax may 
be  increased  by  high  doses  of  cortisteroids.  In  addition,  there  are  no  data  on  effect  on 
pharmacokinetics of NSAIDS or other drugs frequently used in the RA population. 
Human  anti-chimeric  antibody  (HACA).  The  overall  incidence  of  immunodepletable  HACA  was 
around  5.5-5.6%  for  all  rituximab  treated  patients  in  RA  studies.  Re-treatment  of  rituximab  did  not 
increase the HACA incidence or titre.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
A pattern of peripheral B cell depletion over the first 24 weeks after the first treatment course was seen 
in  all  rituximab  2  x  1000  mg  +  MTX  treated  patients  who  were  previously  exposed  to  anti-TNF 
therapy (primarily patients from the pivotal WA17042 study plus a smaller number of patients from 
the phase II studies) and patients who did not receive prior anti- TNF therapy (the majority of patients 
from the supportive phase II studies).The lower dose (2 x 500 mg) of rituximab was associated with a 
higher  proportion  (approx.  34%)  of  patients  who  showed  signs  of  B  cell  return  by  week  24  when 
compared to the higher dose.  
The  extent  and  duration  of  B  cell  depletion  was  similar  for  each  treatment  course  with  repeat 
treatments  given  at  ≥  16  week  intervals,  by  protocol.  Re-treatment  was  based  on  clinical  symptoms 
and not on the patients’ B cell counts which may or may not have returned to LLN/baseline prior to re-
treatment. 
Patients  with  long  term  responses  maintain  B-cell  depletion.  There  was  no  correlation  between  the 
extent of B-cell depletion and the decrease in disease activity measurements; however, recrudescence 
of disease after initial improvement was usually associated with evidence of increasing numbers of B 
cells  in  the  peripheral  blood.  After  a  course  of  rituximab  treatment,  three  patients  had  B  cell  counts 
that never decreased below 40 cells/μL, i.e., 50% of LLN, or levels of B cells that returned to above 
50% of LLN by Week 8. Of these 3 patients, two achieved an ACR20 response or better, and the other 
was a non-responder at week 24. Thus, partial depletion did not preclude a good clinical response. 
Patients with prolonged B-cell depletion. Ten out 121 patients who have been followed for at least two 
years  or  until  B  cell  return  after  the  first  course  of  treatment  with  rituximab  have  shown  prolonged 
depletion (i.e., B cell counts <20% LLN at week 104). Three of these patients received rituximab 2 x 
1000 mg alone, and seven received rituximab 2 x 1000 mg + MTX as their first course of treatment in 
the phase IIa study. Three of these patients have received a second course of treatment, one of whom 
was  still  significantly  B  cell  depleted  (i.e.  <20%  LLN)  at  the  time  of  re-treatment.  Five  of  the  ten 
patients were still B-cell depleted at their last evaluation, and each patient had consistently low counts 
for a period of three to three and half years. The mean pharmacokinetic parameters of rituximab for 
the patients with prolonged B cell depletion were comparable to the combined data for all subjects in 
study  WA16291.  Rituximab  treatment  resulted  in  significant  decreases  in  concentrations  of  certain 
biomarkers  for  inflammation  and  disease  e.g.,  C-reactive  protein  (CRP)  concentrations,  erythrocyte 
sedimentation rates (ESR), and concentrations of RF (in RF-positive patients).  
There was no clinically relevant difference between treatment groups in mean changes from baseline 
in total T-cell (CD3+) counts, helper T-cell (CD4+), and cytotoxic T-cell (CD8+) counts.  
The observed transient decrease in mean counts after each infusion (recovered again to baseline levels 
by  Week  4)  is  likely  to  be  associated  with  the  use  of  corticosteroids  during  the  initial  phase  of  the 
study. The latter seemed to be confirmed by the impact of the corticosteroid regimen on T cell counts 
observed in the phase IIb study.  
In  the  phase  III  study,  mean  concentrations  of  total  immunoglobulin  and  each  isotype  were  slightly 
reduced  at  week  24  compared  with  baseline  in  the  placebo+MTX  group  but  larger  decreases  were 
observed  in  the  rituximab+MTX  group.  The  greatest  reduction  was  seen  in  IgM  immunoglobulin, 
which  declined  from  a  mean  concentration  of  1.62  mg/mL  at  baseline  to  1.14  mg/mL  at  week  24 
(mean change from baseline of -0.48 in rituximab patients compared with -0.08 in placebo patients). 
These findings are consistent with the reduction in RF immunoglobulin, which are predominantly of 
the IgM isotype. Immunoglobulin concentrations generally remained within normal.  
Treatment  with  rituximab  was  not  seen  to  have  any  effect  on  serum  complement  (C3  and  C4)  and 
ANA titre. However, in the phase III study, 15/308 (4.8%) patients in the rituximab + MTX group and 
8/209 (3.8%) patients in the placebo + MTX group became ANA positive at week 16 and/or week 24.  
Acute infusion reaction. Following administration of rituximab, B cell lysis results in the acute release 
of cytokines. This cytokine release is characterised by a cluster of signs and symptoms (e.g., pruritis, 
fever,  urticaria/rash,  chills,  pyrexia,  rigors,  sneezing,  angioneurotic  oedema,  throat  irritation,  cough 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and bronchospasm, with or without associated hypotension or hypertension) and is considered to be an 
acute infusion reaction. After infusion of the first course of rituximab, 11% of patients in the Phase III 
trial experienced such a reaction compared to 7% on placebo. As expected, given the lower numbers 
of  circulating  B  cells,  the  second  infusion  resulted  in  infusion  reactions  in  only  2%  of  patients  on 
rituximab compared to 3% on placebo.  
Clinical efficacy 
In the provided 3 studies patients had longstanding, severe active RA at study entry and > 79% of the 
patients were RF positive at baseline. Patient ages at entry of the studies ranged from 18 to 81 years, 
with  a  median  of  approximately  53  years.  The  majority  of  patients  (~80%)  were  female  and 
Caucasian.  
In  total,  540  RA  patients  were  randomized  to  receive  rituximab  2  x  1000  mg  in  combination  with 
MTX (weekly dose 10-25 mg), 40 patients received rituximab 2 x 1000 mg monotherapy, 41 patients 
received  rituximab  2  x  1000  mg  in  combination  with  IV  cyclophosphamide  2  x  750  mg  and  124 
patients received rituximab 2 x 500 mg in combination with MTX (weekly dose 10-25 mg).  
Patients randomized to rituximab + MTX or placebo + MTX who had achieved a clinical response (≥ 
20% improvement from baseline in both SJC and TJC) after week 16 following receipt of rituximab + 
MTX/placebo  +  MTX,  and  who  relapsed  or  had  remaining  evidence  of  disease  activity  (at  least  8 
swollen  and  tender  joints),  were  eligible  to  receive  further  courses  of  2  x  1000  mg  of  rituximab. 
Patients were to have completed the week-24 visit prior to re-treatment following the first course of 
therapy.  With  the  exception  of  this  initial  stipulation,  and  allowing  a  minimum  interval  between 
treatment  courses  of  16  weeks,  the  timing  of  re-treatment  was  at  the  discretion  of  the  treating 
investigator. 
Several steroid regimens were tested i.v. vs. oral or the combination of the two. The patient population 
consisted  primarily  of  RF  positive  RA  and  to  a  minor  extent  of  RF  negative  patients.  The  study  was 
conducted at multiple centres in the US and non-US countries. 
The traditional and validated RA response criteria have been used which include the ACR and EULAR 
(DAS28) scores together with a number of secondary efficacy parameters. Radiographs of hand and feet 
have  been  included,  but  so  far  only  data  from  24  weeks  treatment  are  presented.  The  design  and 
conductance  of  these  randomised  controlled  trials  including  handling  of  missing  data  seem  to  be  in 
accordance with internationally accepted standards. The statistical evaluation of data is acceptable.  
Pivotal  Phase III Study WA 17042 
In this phase III study the Applicant has focused on the group or RA patients with previous failure on 
anti-TNF therapy. Based on the experience with the phase II studies protocol 17042 was designed to 
compare the RTM 1000 mg x 2 dose to placebo. All patients were on weekly MTX (p.o. or i.m.). 
The primary endpoint was the ACR20 at week 24 – the secondary endpoints were the same as for the 
phase  II  studies.  Five  hundred  twenty  patients  were  enrolled  (311  were  randomized  to  receive 
RTM+MTX and 209 to receive placebo+MTX). Eighty-two percent of the patients in the RTM group 
completed the 24 weeks of the study compared with 54% in the placebo group. A total of 96 patients 
in the placebo + MTX group who received study medication withdrew prematurely, with 80 patients 
going  on  to  receive  RTM  rescue  therapy  and  1  patients  entering  the  Safety  follow-up.  Fifty-three 
patients in the RTM + MTX group who received study medication withdrew into the Safety follow-up 
prior to week 2 (RTM rescue therapy was not available to these patients). 
There  is  a  surprisingly  large  differential  drop-out  due  to  lack  of  efficacy.  This  may  be  viewed  is  a 
strong argument for dealing with an effective treatment (without too many side effects), but it should 
be emphasized that such differences in favour of the treatment arm is trials is rather rare. Importantly, 
however, the estimates of the magnitude of the effect may be exaggerated by considering all dropouts 
an  as  non-responder  and  by  the  LOCF  procedure  given  this  differential  drop-out.  Especially 
comparing  the  effect  size  at  16  weeks  (no  differential  dropout  up  to  then)  versus  24  weeks  but  also 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
comparing  the  effect  size  /  scores  of  the  ITT  versus  the  PP  population  may  indicate  how  large  this 
exaggeration is.  
Both RF positive and negative patients were included and subjects were recruited from US and non-
US countries. Baseline demographic parameters were comparable between groups. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  reached  by  51%  in  the  RTM  arm  vs.  18%  in  the  placebo  group 
(p<0.0001).  RTM  was  also  superior  to  placebo  in  the  secondary  efficacy  parameters  (ACR50  27% 
RTM  vs.  5%  placebo,  and  ACR70  12%  RTM  vs.  1%  placebo).  In  general  the  ACR  response  was 
reached around week 4 and stayed relative constant throughout the 24 week period. The mean DAS28 
score  changed  from  mean  6.9  to  5.0  in  the  RTM  arm  vs.  6.9  to  6.4  in  the  placebo  arm  which  was 
statistically significant. 
Low  disease  activity  and  remission  as  defined  by  DAS  scores  below  3.2  and  2.6  respectively  was 
obtained by 15% RTM and 2% placebo patients (low activity) and 9% vs. 0% (remission). 
The clinical significance of these figures is less impressing. The mean DAS of 5.0 is just below the 
limit of high disease activity (5.1) and only small number in the active group actually achieved good 
response or remission.  
The results from the fatigue, physical and mental health scores are in accordance with the results from 
the clinical efficacy variables. Radiographic evaluation was performed at week 24, but due to the short 
observation  period  only  joint  space  narrowing  showed  statistical  significance  in  favour  of  the  RTM 
group. Further, it should be remarked that the used radiographic evaluation method according to Sharp 
as  modified  by  Genant  is  rarely  used  as  method  to  evaluate  structural  damage.  This  method  is  less 
validated as the modified Sharp-v/d Heijde score.  
Fewer US-patients achieved the ACR response criteria compared to non-US patients. This difference 
was  most  obvious  in  the  groups  with  only  one  previous  anti-TNF  therapy  regimen.  When  the  DAS 
score (which is not a relative efficacy measurement such as the ACR score) was applied this difference 
minimised.   
The  RF-positive  patients  performed  better  compared  to  the  RF-negative  patients.  In  RF-negative 
patients,  significance  was  achieved  at  the  ACR20  level,  but  not  at  ACR50,  and  only  borderline 
efficacy was observed at ACR70. This seems to indicate that RTM has lesser effect in the RF-negative 
population as also shown in the phase II study.  
No correlations between RTM concentrations and changes from baseline in CD19+ B-cell counts, total 
RF, ACRn and DAS28 at week 24 were observed. 
Supportive Phase IIa Study WA 16291. 
In  this  4-arm  study  MTX  alone  was  compared  to  RTM  monotherapy  (1  g  x  2),  RTM  + 
cyclophosphamide 750 mg x 2, or RTM + MTX. The primary endpoint was ACR50 at week 24. The 
aim of the extension phase was to collect safety data and to explore further efficacy outcome measures 
such as duration of clinical efficacy over a 2-year period. 
The  ITT  population  consisted  of  161  patients  in  4  treatment  arms.  Subjects  are  well  balanced  with 
respect  to  demographic  parameters,  but  the  RTM-mono  arm  has  a  statistically  significant  lower 
disease  activity  as  measured  by  mean  CRP  concentration.  This  may  have  affected  the  outcome 
because the RTM-mono arm was the only group among the 3 active treatment arms that did not reach 
level of significance compared to placebo at the ACR50 response criteria. Both the RTM+cyclo and 
the RTM+MTX were statistically superior to placebo.  
Statistical significance was also achieved for the secondary efficacy parameter, ACR20 in all groups 
but  for  the  ACR70  level  only  in  the  RTM+MTX  group.  According  to  the  EULAR  score  all  active 
RTM  arms  performed  equally  with  61%-65%  obtaining  moderate  response  and  20%-24%  obtaining 
good  response.  Mean  disease  activity  over  time  (DAS)  was  indistinguishable  between  the  3  active 
RTM  arms.  Also  the  pharmacokinetic  profiles  including  CD19  positive  cell  counts  were  almost 
identical in the 3 arms. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One  hundred  forty-two  patients  entered  the  extension  phase  of  study  16291  and  81  were  re-treated. 
However, only 11 subjects received blinded re-treatment with their original randomised regimen. The 
remaining 70 individuals entered the open label protocol WA 16855 (RTM 1 g x 2 + MTX).  
At week 48 there was significantly more ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 responders in the RTM+MTX 
arm compared to MTX alone. At week 104 no statistically significant differences were found between 
groups. Although the mean duration of ACR70 response was longer in the RTM+MTX arm it did not 
reach statistical significance compared to MTX-mono. No significance was found for DAS and HAQ 
scores between the same groups. 
It cannot be excluded that the lower inflammatory activity at baseline in the RTM-mono group might 
have  skewed  the  outcome  particularly  in  relation  to  the  ACR  criteria.  The  ACR  outcome  criteria, 
which  are  based  on  relative  measures,  are  less  suitable  when  baseline  values  are  not  completely 
balanced. The DAS score in this situation is more appropriate. 
Supportive Phase IIb Study 17043. 
This  study  was  designed  to  refine  the  RTM  dose  and  determine  the  role  of  concomitant  steroid  use 
during  the  treatment  period.  Both  RF-positive  and  RF  negative  patients  were  enrolled  and the  study 
comprised 9 possible combinations. Placebo and two doses of RTM were used, 500 mg x 2 and 1000 
mg x 2 combined with steroid (total 250 mg or 820 mg prednisone equivalent). Patients were allowed 
background  steroid  (less  than  10  mg  per  day).  Primary  endpoint  was  ACR20  at  week  24  for  RF 
positive  patients.  After  week  24  all  patients  were  followed  for  18  months,  giving  an  overall  study 
duration of 24 months. After week 24 eligible patients could receive further courses of RTM under a 
separate protocol or in case of placebo receive a first treatment. Efficacy-measures were the same as 
for study 16291. 
At baseline 380 patients were RF positive and 85 were RF negative. The demographic and baseline 
characteristics were adequately balanced between treatment groups. 
The  results  showed  virtually  identical  ACR20/50responses  in  the  two  RTM-arms  (both  were 
significantly superior to placebo). However, ACR70 responses were numerically more frequent in the 
RTM 1000 mgX2 arm. At some time-points the 500 mg RTM group performed better than the higher 
RTM  group  in  the  ACR20  score.  The  DAS  score  over  time  was  almost  identical  between  the  two 
RTM groups. 
At  week  24  there  were  significantly  more  EULAR  good  responders  in  the  1000  mg  RTM  arm 
compared  to  the  500  mg  RTM  arm,  whereas  at  week  16  more  low-dose  RTM  patients  were  good 
responders. 
This study could be viewed as a dose-finding study.  
Extension study WA 16855 and WA 17531 
Patients randomized to RTM in the initial treatment protocol and who required repeat treatment were 
enrolled into one of two open-label extension studies.  
Protocol WA1685 provided eligible patients from the two Phase II studies WA16291 and WA17043 
with the opportunity to receive further courses of RTM treatment from week 24 onwards. In addition, 
patients initially randomized to RTM-placebo in the randomized comparative  portion of the original 
protocol were eligible to receive open label RTM in the extension study WA16855.  
Another  similar  study  (WA17531)  was  initiated  to  allow  eligible  patients  from  the  phase  III  study 
(WA17042) to receive further courses of treatment with RTM 2 x 1000 mg + MTX under the same 
conditions.  The  objective  of  the  study  was  to  assess  the  long-term  safety  and  explore  response  to 
repeated treatment with RTM. 
Approximately  600  patients  with  active  RA  who  had  participated  in  one  of  the  Phase  II  studies 
(WA16291  and  WA17043),  and  approx  500  patients  from  the  phase  III  study  (WA17042),  were 
potentially eligible to enter the extension studies. 
The  duration  of  response  was  explored  by  assessing  the  longest  period  of  uninterrupted  ACR20 
response (defined as consecutive assessments showing an ACR20 response) for given patient. 
The mean [median] duration of response (i.e. longest period of consecutive assessments with a defined 
ACR  response),  after  the  first  course  of  treatment  with  RTM  2  x  1000  mg  +  MTX  treatment,  is 
currently 13 [10], 9 [4] and 6 [4] weeks for ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses, respectively, in 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
the  population  of  patients  who  had  received  prior  anti-TNF  therapy.  The  longest  duration  of  an 
uninterrupted ACR20 response was 61 weeks at the point of data cut-off. 
In contrast, patients who had no previous anti-TNF exposure and were included in the phase II studies 
began treatment a considerable time prior to the start of study WA17042 and the data are less subject 
to censoring. The mean [median] duration of response in this population is currently 23 [20], 16 [8], 
and 9 [4] weeks for ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 respectively. The longest duration of uninterrupted 
ACR20 response was 118 weeks at the point of data cut-off.  
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
The  nonclinical  program  for  rituximab  has  demonstrated  pharmacologic  activity  (B  cell  depletion), 
that  rituximab  has  PK  consistent  with  other  well-characterized  monoclonal  antibodies,  and  that 
toxicological findings related to rituximab are predictable, reversible,  and related to the pharmacology 
of  CD20+  B-cell  depletion.  Overall,  rituximab-related  findings  in  nonclinical  safety  studies  are 
considered to be acceptable for the proposed patient population. 
In general the studies do substantiate that the 1000 mg x 2 dose of Rituximab is the optimal dose in 
RA. The lower dose (500 mg x 2) seems to be less effective, however it seems associated with fewer 
side effects. 
On the basis of presented data it can be concluded that rituximab 2 x 1000 mg given concomitantly 
with MTX is more effective than MTX alone in RA patients who had an inadequate response to MTX 
and  one or  more  anti  TNF  therapies.  The  lower  dose  regimen  2x  500  mg  plus  MTX  regimen  tested 
only in a small Phase II study (WA17043) seems to be less effective.   
Overall, the provided evidence of efficacy and safety of MabThera with the recommended dosage in 
the  sought  indication  is  supportive  of  approval  of  the  product  in  a  restricted  (salvage  therapy) 
indication reflecting better the present experience (from the pivotal study) in patients with severe RA 
who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
including one or more tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor therapies.  
The following indication has been agreed with the CHMP:  
“MabThera  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
severe  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  or  intolerance  to  other 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including one or more tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor 
therapies”.  
The MAH committed to provide results from the following clinical trials: 
Protocol WA17045  
A randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind, parallel group, international study to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of rituximab (MabThera/Rituxan) in combination with methotrexate, compared to 
methotrexate monotherapy, in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. 
Submission of a) pharmacokinetic data and repeated infusions and b) final study report (primary 
endpoint evaluation) exploring the efficacy and safety of the 2 x 0.5g regimen and the 2 x 1g regimen 
in patients who are not responding adequately to treatment with methotrexate. 
Protocol WA17047  
A randomized, phase 3, controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter study to evaluate the 
safety and efficacy of rituximab in combination with methotrexate (MTX) compared to MTX alone, in 
methotrexate-naïve patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. 
Submission of a) pharmacokinetic data and repeated infusions and b) final study report (primary 
endpoint evaluation) exploring the efficacy and safety of the 2 x 0.5g regimen and the 2 x 1g regimen 
in methotrexate treatment naive patients. 
Clinical safety  
AE’s associated with skin, respiratory and general disorders were more frequent in the arms receiving 
RTM  whereas  the  control  groups  had  more  musculoskeletal  complaints  probably  due  to  more  RA 
disease exacerbation in these groups. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  16291  there  were  14  serious  adverse  events  with  the  highest  incidence  in  the 
RTM+cyclophosphamide  group.  The  most  common  type  of  SAE  was  infection.  One  patient  (RTM-
mono-therapy) died from pneumonia 
Events  considered  expected  with  RTM  treatment  (i.e.  transient  hypo/hypertension,  nausea,  rash, 
pruritus,  cough,  dyspnoea,  and  pyrexia)  occurred  more  frequently  in  the  RTM  regimens.  It  is  of 
concern that severe infections were more frequently seen in the RTM groups. A statistical significant 
difference was observed in the “pathogen unspecified group” i.e. 11 cases in RTM+MTX vs. 3 cases 
in  the  MTX  group;  p=0.039.  Of  particularly  importance  was  the  observation  of  2  cases  of  septic 
arthritis  (1  in  RTM  group  and  1  in  the  RTM+cyclo  group)  and  a  case  of  pseudomonal  pneumonia 
(RTM+cyclo) – altogether potentially life-threatening infections.  
One  patient  in  the  RTM  monotherapy  died  5  months  after  commencing  the  study  program.  Routine 
ECG performed during the study revealed slight abnormalities,  which could indicate silent ischemic 
heart disease. The patient was admitted to hospital with signs of acute pneumonia and though treated 
with  antibiotics  the  patient  succumbed  due  to  sudden  cardiac  arrest.  No  specific  pathogens  were 
isolated from blood or sputum.   
Of the 5 patients with serious infections 4 were in the RTM treatment arms. One patient in the MTX 
arm had a corneal abscess and was admitted to an ophthalmologic department and stayed for 3 days. 
In the extension arm of study 16291, 7 individuals developed severe infections 5 of whom were in the 
RTM treatment arms. 
Study 17043 showed that the incidence of AE’s were highest in the 1000 mg x 2 dose RTM group. 
Two percent in the low RTM group and 4% in the high dose RTM group were withdrawn due to AE’s 
respectively. Pre-medication with steroids seemed to decrease the incidence of AE’s to some extent.  
Acute  infusion  related  AE’s  occurred  with  a  higher  frequency  in  the  1000  mg  RTM  group.  Five 
patients  were  withdrawn  in  the  1000  mg  RTM  vs.  0  patients  in  the  500  mg  RTM  arm  due  to  AE’s 
related to infusion. Three patients developed serious allergic reaction with dyspnoea and hypotension 
in the 1000 mg RTM group. 
Combining the RTM groups, the overall incidence of cardiac disorders was higher (10%) than in the 
RTM  placebo  group  (four  patients,  3%).  This  imbalance  is  mainly  accounted  for  by  non-serious 
cardiac events associated with infusion reactions, including tachycardia, palpitations and bradycardia. 
Cardiac arrhythmias were experienced by 19 (15%) and 15 (7.8%) subjects in the 500 mg and 1000 g 
RTM groups respectively compared to 4 (2.6%) in the placebo arm. 
Severe  infections  (grade  3)  were  reported  by  1%  of  patients  in  the  RTM  placebo  group,  <  1%  of 
patients  in  the  2  x  500  mg  RTM  group  and  4%  of  patients  in  the  2  x  1000  mg  RTM  group.  No 
opportunitistic  infections  associated  with  RTM  treatment  were  observed  in  this  study,  although  one 
RTM-treated  patient developed cutaneous blastomycosis. One patient in the 1000 mg x 2 RTM arm 
developed epiglottitis – a serious life-threatening infection. 
A total of 26 patients had 26 SAEs. More patients had SAEs in the RTM groups (7% in both the 2 x 
500 mg and 2 x 1000 mg dose groups) compared with the RTM placebo group (3% of patients). The 
most common types of SAE were infections. 
Study 17042. 
A  slightly  higher  frequency  of  serious  adverse  events  was  observed  in  the  placebo  +  MTX  group 
(10%) than in the RTM + MTX group (7%). Nine patients (one in the placebo + MTX group and 8 in 
the RTM + MTX group) were withdrawn from the study as a result of an adverse event, of whom six 
RTM + MTX patients were withdrawn within the first two weeks of the study. There were no deaths 
during the 24-week study period. 
More  severe  infections  were  recorded  in  the  RTM  +  MTX  group  (10  patients,  3.2%)  than  in  the 
placebo + MTX group (4 patients, 1.9%).  
Seven  percent  of  patients  in  the  RTM  +  MTX  group  experienced  vascular  disorders  (mostly  hyper- 
and  hypotension,  and  flushing/hot  flush)  compared  to  4%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  +  MTX  group 
within the 24 hours post-infusion. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory  disorders,  including  throat  irritation  or  tightness,  pharyngeal  swelling  or  pain,  and 
laryngeal oedema, were also more common in the RTM + MTX group (5% of patients, compared to 
1%  of  placebo  +  MTX  patients).  Skin  disorders  (such  as  pruritus  and  urticaria)  and  gastrointestinal 
disorders  (mainly  nausea  and  diarrhoea)  were  each  recorded  in  5%  of  patients  treated  with  RTM  + 
MTX compared to 2% of placebo + MTX patients. 
Taken together these studies have shown that treatment with RTM imposes a significant risk of serious 
AE’s  to  the  patients  with  RA.  Infusion-related  AE’s  were  common  and  several  cases  of  dramatic 
potentially life-threatening allergic reactions occurred with urticarial rash, hypotension and laryngeal 
oedema. It is not clear from these studies to what extent the occurrence of HACA contributes to these 
reactions.  
Infections  were  common  and  severe  life-threatening  infections  even  with  fatal  outcome  were 
observed. Of particular concern are the cases of septic arthritis, a rare condition even in RA patients. 
Cardiac conduction disturbances were observed in a number of subjects. It is not unlikely that these 
events  can  be  connected  to  RTM  treatment,  either  indirectly  through  effect  on  the  cardiovascular 
system (hypertension/hypotension) or as a direct consequence of cytokine release affecting the cardiac 
conduction system. Of importance, no cases of latent or overt tuberculosis were observed. 
RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
The  proposed  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  included  in  Module  1  supports  the  application  for  the 
approval  of  rituximab,  in  conjunction  with  methotrexate,  for  the  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis 
(RA), in patients who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF agents.  
From analyses of safety data from the RA clinical trials the applicant has indicated one identified risk 
(acute  infusion  reaction/cytokine  release  syndrome)  and  six  potential  risks  for  further  evaluation 
and/or minimization.  
There are currently no safety signals identified by the applicant for rituximab related to the potential 
risks.  The  six  potential  risks  are:  Infection,  immunogenicity,  neoplasm,  immunization  response, 
pregnancy/lactation  and  drug  interactions.  Infection,  immunogenicity  and  neoplasm  are  included 
because they are issues of concern in the RA patient population. Immunization response is included as 
a  potential  risk  because  of 
the  mechanism  of  action  of  rituximab  (B  cell  depletion). 
Pregnancy/lactation  and  drug  interactions  are  included  because  they  are  areas  of  concern  for  all 
therapeutics. 
The safety database for rituximab in rheumatoid arthritis contains 990 patients who received at least 
part of one infusion of rituximab as part of placebo-controlled Phase II or Phase III trials, and/or open-
label extensions to these trials. Individual patient follow-up time ranges from 6 months to over 3 years, 
with  a  total  of  1001  patient-years  of  follow-up;  306  patients  received  two  or  more  courses  of 
treatment. 
However,  it  is  estimated  that  approximately  730,000  patients  had  been  exposed  to  rituximab 
worldwide by 31 May 2005, the majority of whom were treated in the oncology setting. Most patients 
received rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV for 4 cycles. Thus, the safety profile of rituximab in the lymphoma 
indications is well-established.  
The safety experience in the RA clinical trials was compared with that in the NHL clinical trials. With 
the exception of acute infusion reactions, which are generally less frequent and less severe in the RA 
population, it appears that the safety profile of rituximab in patients with RA  is generally similar in 
pattern to that in patients with malignancy.  
The actions proposed by the applicant to address the identified and potential risks are so far considered 
as appropriate. However, several safety issues are to be discussed within the context of the RMP, such 
as; the increased risk (beyond the background treatment including MTX) of serious infections, cardiac 
events, malignancies, serious allergic reactions especially in HACA patients, a concern of the slightly 
increased  proportion  of  patients  with  ANA  positive  measurements.  Thus,  a  final  conclusion  as  to 
whether all safety concerns are adequately covered in this RMP awaits further assessment. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on Clinical Safety 
The frequency of interfering antibody is therefore very low (1/1039 patients exposed). The applicant 
continues to study the emergence of interfering antibody. At present, as there is no practical assay for 
HACA in use in clinical practice, failure to deplete B cells in the peripheral blood following a second 
or  later  courses  of  treatment  may  be  a  bioassay  which  demonstrates  the  presence  of  antibody  in  the 
plasma  sufficient  to  interfere  with  the  biological  mechanism  of  action  of  the  product.  Whether  a 
HACA  response  has  any  impact  on  safety  is  not  known.  Based  on  the  limited  amount  of  data  on 
patients treated with DMARDs including anti-TNF treatment after rituximab treatment there seems not 
to be an increased incidence of serious infections at least if the incidence is compared to reported rates 
among  patients  treated  with  anti-TNF  for  the  first  time  or  among  patients  treated  with  rituximab  + 
MTX alone. The information for other DMARDs after rituximab exposure is even more limited. 
From a practical clinical perspective most patients requiring another DMARD after rituximab will be 
B  cell  depleted  to  some  extent  simply  because  of  the  prolonged  effect  of  the  antibody  on  B-cells. 
These patients cannot be left untreated until complete repletion of their peripheral B-cells. Therefore, 
the  Rapporteur  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  information  on  infections  in  the  draft  SPC  is  acceptable. 
Section  4.4  states  that  infections  were  most  commonly  observed  within  1  month  of  initiating 
MabThera and similarly to the experience in lymphoma patients the prolonged B-cell depletion seems 
not to be associated with a high risk of severe infections in following months. Any patient with RA 
requiring a DMARD including anti-TNF and rituximab should not receive such treatment in case of 
active  infection.  Patients  reporting  signs  and  symptoms  of  infection  following  DMARD  therapy 
should  be  promptly  evaluated  and  treated  appropriately.    Physicians  should  exercise  caution  when 
considering the use of most DMARDs in patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or 
with underlying conditions which may further predispose patients to serious infection. In conclusion, 
this common knowledge for rheumatologists is included in sections 4.3, 4.4, and 4.8 of the SPC.  
Data  on  myocardial  infarction  among  the  placebo-treated  patients  for  comparison  (all  study 
population)  were  presented.  It  is  important  to  bear  in  mind  the  significantly  longer  period  of 
observation  in  the  rituximab  treated  population  than  in  the  placebo  group.  Of  the  1039  patients 
included in the all exposure population, 359 had pre-existing cardiovascular disease (12% 43/359 of 
whom  had  ischaemic  heart  disease).  The  rate  of  myocardial  infarction  observed  in  the  rituximab 
treated  group  is  similar  to  that  observed  in  published  cohort  studies  (Solomon  DH,  Karlson  EW, 
Rimm  EB  et  al.    Cardiovascular  morbidity  and  mortality  in  women  diagnosed  with  rheumatoid 
arthritis.  Circulation 2003;107:1303-1307 Turesson C, Jarenros A , Jacobsson L. Increased incidence 
of cardiovascular disease in rheumatoid arthritis. Ann Rheum 2004;63:952-955)  
In  the  pivotal  study  the  used  corticosteroid  regimen  consisted  of  glucocorticosteroid  pre-medication 
and oral coverage between the two infusions should follow as described in section 5.1.However, since 
there  are  some  safety  concerns  about  the  oral  coverage  between  the  two  infusions  of  Mabthera  it  is 
proposed  that  supplementary  oral  coverage  should  be  given  to  patients  who  are  not  on  background 
corticosteroid therapy for their RA. The MAH has provided a rationale for the steroid doses chosen. 
The use of oral corticosteroids for several days following I.V pre-medication is not recommended.  
The  MAH  will  provide  a  safety  review  and  company  position  for  MabThera  following  recent  USPI 
updates for Rituxan. 
The MAH should provide an updated risk management plan. PSURs will be submitted every 6 months 
during the first 2 years after approval of the rheumatoid arthritis indication. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
CONCLUSION 
On  1  June  2006  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area1
Clinical 
Clinical 
PhV 
PhV 
PhV 
1. 
2. 
Description 
Protocol WA17045  
A randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind, parallel group, 
international study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
rituximab (MabThera/Rituxan) in combination with methotrexate, 
compared to methotrexate monotherapy, in patients with active 
rheumatoid arthritis. 
Due date2
30/06/2008 
Submission of a) pharmacokinetic data and repeated infusions 
and b) final study report (primary endpoint evaluation) exploring 
the efficacy and safety of the 2 x 0.5g regimen and the 2 x 1g 
regimen in patients who are not responding adequately to 
treatment with methotrexate. 
Protocol WA17047  
A randomized, phase 3, controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, 
multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rituximab 
in combination with methotrexate (MTX) compared to MTX 
alone, in methotrexate-naïve patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis. 
end 2009 
Submission of a) pharmacokinetic data and repeated infusions 
and b) final study report (primary endpoint evaluation) exploring 
the efficacy and safety of the 2 x 0.5g regimen and the 2 x 1g 
regimen in methotrexate treatment naive patients. 
Provide updated risk management plan 
30/06/2006 
PSURs will be submitted every 6 months during the first 2 years 
after approval of the rheumatoid arthritis indication. 
Provide a safety review and company position for MabThera 
following recent USPI updates for Rituxan 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be 
committed to. 
July 2006 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
