European Medicines Agency 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
MABTHERA 
International non-proprietary name/Common name:  
rituximab  
Procedure No.EMEA/H/C/000165/II/0053 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Rituximab  is  a  chimeric  murine/human  monoclonal  antibody  that  binds  to  CD20,  a  hydrophobic 
transmembrane protein which is present on the cell surface of pre-B- and mature B-lymphocytes, but 
not on hemopoietic stem cells, pro–B–cells, normal plasma cells or other normal tissue. In particular, 
CD20  is  present  on  malignant  B-cells  in  most  patients  with  mature  B-cell  lymphoma  and  leukemia. 
Rituximab binds to CD20 on B-lymphocytes and leads to elimination of these cells potentially via a 
number  of  different  mechanisms  (antibody  dependent  cellular  cytotoxicity  (ADCC),  complement 
dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and apoptosis). 
Mabthera (Rituximab) was first approved in 1998 in the European Union (EU) and has since received 
regulatory approval in 102 countries. It is currently approved in the EU for the following indications: 
• 
for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma who are chemoresistant or are in 
their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy 
for  the  treatment  of  previously  untreated  patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  lymphoma  in 
combination with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone (CVP) chemotherapy 
as  maintenance  therapy  for  patients  with  relapsed/refractory  follicular  lymphoma  responding  to 
induction therapy with chemotherapy with or without rituximab 
for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 
combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone (CHOP) chemotherapy 
in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of adult patients with severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  or  intolerance  to  other  disease-modifying  anti-
rheumatic drugs including one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor therapies. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Since  the  marketing  authorization  was  granted  for  first-line  treatment  of  patients  with  follicular 
lymphoma  in  combination  with  CVP  chemotherapy in  August  2004,  data  from  a  variety  of  recently 
published  randomized  clinical  trials  as  well  as  meta-analyses  and  retrospective  cohort  studies  have 
consistently  demonstrated  the  efficacy  of  rituximab  in  combination  with  various  chemotherapy 
regimens other than CVP for initial treatment of this disease. 
Follicular  lymphomas  account  for  20-25%  of  all  lymphomas.  The  disease  generally  manifests  with 
hypertrophy  of  peripheral  and  deep  lymph  nodes  and  splenomegaly,  together  with  bone  marrow 
infiltration.  
Follicular lymphoma is characterized by an indolent course of disease. Treatment is usually associated 
with  a  high  rate  of  initial  response  to  various  regimens,  followed  inevitably  by  relapse.  Subsequent 
remissions  occur  but  at  a  progressively  lower  rate  and  usually  of  shorter  duration.  Prognosis  of 
patients  with  relapsed  disease  is  poor.  Even  though  remission  can  still  be  obtained  with  available 
salvage regimens, its duration is invariably shorter after each induction cycle. Median survival ranges 
between  6-10  years  and  the  majority  of  patients  eventually  die  from  their  disease.  Histological 
transformation  to  more  aggressive  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  (NHL)  with  poor  prognosis  has  been 
documented to occur in 20-80% of patients over time. Also, the likelihood of resistant lymphoma or 
occurrence  of  secondary  malignancies  such  as  myelodysplastic  syndrome/acute  myeloid  leukemia 
(MDS/AML) increases with time and with the number, choice and intensity of previous treatments. 
A variety of different chemotherapy regimens are used for initial treatment and the choice of treatment 
is largely based on patient prognosis and physician preference. Generally accepted regimens include 
single-agent  regimens  (chlorambucil,  cyclophosphamide,  fludarabine)  or  combination  regimens  with 
or without anthracyclines (e.g. CHOP or CVP).  
In  August  2004,  marketing  authorization  was  granted  for  the  use  of  rituximab  in  combination  with 
CVP  chemotherapy  for  treatment  of  previously  untreated  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma.  The 
approval  was  based  on  the  results  of  study  M39021  which  demonstrated  a  large  and  clinically 
meaningful benefit for previously untreated patients with FL receiving rituximab in combination with 
CVP  chemotherapy  when  compared  to  treatment  with  CVP  alone.  The  overall  response  rate  (ORR) 
was significantly improved with the addition of rituximab to CVP (81% vs. 57% for R-CVP and CVP, 
respectively  [p<0.0001])  with  a  large  difference  in  terms  of  complete  response  (CR)  rates  (41%  vs. 
11%  for  patients  in  the  R-CVP  and  CVP  arms,  respectively).  With  a  current  median  follow  up  of 
53 months, median time to progression or death (TTP) was significantly increased from 14.7 months 
Page 2 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
with CVP alone to 33.6 months with R-CVP, p<0.0001. The estimated overall survival (OS) showed a 
strong clinical benefit in favor of the R-CVP arm, and the two-sided significance level dropped below 
0.05 (p=0.029, log-rank test).  
Due to the heterogeneity in the choice of first-line chemotherapy regimens for patients with FL, the 
use  of  rituximab  as  initial  treatment  in  this  setting  was  also  evaluated  in  a  number  of  trials  using  a 
variety  of  different  chemotherapy  regimens  for  combination.  Chemotherapies  evaluated  in  these 
studies  included  anthracycline-based  (CHOP,  CHVP-IFN,  MCP)  or  fludarabine-based  regimens 
(FCM, FND) depending on local standard practices. All of these trialshave consistently demonstrated 
a  significant  improvement  of  progression-free  survival  (PFS)  or  time  to  treatment  failure  (TTF)  and 
OS when rituximab was added to chemotherapy in this setting, regardless of the type of chemotherapy 
regimen  chosen  for  combination  with  rituximab.  Moreover,  meta-analyses  evaluating  the  role  of 
rituximab in the treatment of FL as well as retrospective cohort comparisons in untreated patients with 
FL pooling data of rituximab in combination with a variety of chemotherapy regimens have confirmed 
the major clinical benefit provided by rituximab in the treatment of this disease.  
Based  on  the  overall  strong  evidence  in  these  trials  of  a  large  and  meaningful  clinical  benefit  of 
rituximab  regardless  of  the  type  of  added  chemotherapy,  rituximab  in  combination  with  any 
chemotherapy has become the standard of care for first-line treatment of FL patients worldwide and 
has  been  widely  adopted  into  clinical  practice  for  the  management  of  these  patients.  This  is  also 
reflected  in  several  treatment  guidelines  worldwide  for  the  management  of  patients  with  FL,  which 
recommend  the  usage  of  rituximab  for  initial  treatment  of  patients  with  FL  in  combination  with 
chemotherapy  without  restriction  to  a  specific  chemotherapy  regimen.  In  addition,  rituximab-based 
combination therapy is the standard of care for initial therapy in a  number of  ongoing clinical trials 
evaluating new treatment strategies (e.g. maintenance therapy) or new compounds for the treatment of 
FL patients.  
However,  the  current  label  in  the  EU  for  rituximab  does  not  reflect  current  clinical  practice  as  it 
restricts rituximab usage in this setting to combination with CVP chemotherapy only.  
This  application  is  based  primarily  on  published  data  (either  full  text  manuscripts  or  conference 
abstracts) from three key randomized studies conducted by European Cooperative Lymphoma Study 
Groups: 
•  The  German  Low-Grade  Lymphoma  Study  Group  trial  (GLSG’00)  comparing  6-8 cycles  of 
frontline  therapy  with  rituximab  and  CHOP  (cyclophosphamide,  doxorubicin,  vincristine, 
prednisone)  (R-CHOP)  with  CHOP  alone  in  previously  untreated  advanced-stage  follicular 
lymphoma patients 
•  The  German  OSHO-39  (East  German  Study  Group  Hematology  and  Oncology)  trial 
comparing  8  cycles  of  rituximab  in  combination  with  MCP  (mitoxantrone,  chlorambucil, 
prednisolone) chemotherapy (R-MCP) with MCP alone as first-line treatment for patients with 
low-grade lymphoma.  
•  The  French  FL2000  study  conducted  by  the  Groupe  d’Etudes  des  Lymphomes  de  l’Adulte 
(GELA)  in  collaboration  with  the  Groupe  Ouest-Est  d’Étude  des  Leucémies  et  Autres 
Maladies  du  Sang  (GOELAMS)  evaluating  the  efficacy  of  6 cycles  of  rituximab  in 
combination  with  CHVP-IFN  (cyclophosphamide,  doxorubicin,  etoposide,  prednisone, 
interferon-α) for previously untreated patients with advanced stage follicular lymphoma. 
Study GLSG’00 and study FL2000 were conducted independently by national lymphoma study groups 
in  Germany  and  France,  respectively.  For  study  FL2000,  the  principal  investigator  provided 
confidential information on patient baseline demographics and safety data from the study manuscript 
that is currently in preparation. The Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH) has no access to the data 
from these two studies other than what is publicly available in the medical community in the format of 
full text publications and thus cannot provide any clinical study reports for these trials. Study OSHO-
39 was conducted by the East German Study Group Hematology and Oncology and was sponsored by 
Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Germany. For this trial, the primary reference is a recent full text publication 
of  the  study  results  in  the  Journal  of  Clinical  Oncology  2007.  This  reference  presents  the  longest 
Page 3 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
follow up data that is currently available for this study. A final study report for this trial is expected to 
be available at the end of 2008. 
In  addition,  efficacy  and/or  safety  results  of  publications  from  different  meta-analyses,  retrospective 
cohort comparisons as well as a number of phase II studies exploring rituximab in combination with 
other cytotoxic agents such as chlorambucil or purine-analogue based regimens are supplied to support 
the application. 
The decision to submit this variation application was based on: 
•  Strong evidence from several large, randomized phase III trials and supporting evidence from 
meta-analyses, retrospective cohort studies and phase II studies demonstrating that the addition of 
rituximab to any chemotherapy regimen provides a clinically meaningful benefit to previously 
untreated patients with FL.  
•  The observation that all data consistently demonstrated an improvement in overall survival when 
rituximab was added to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone, regardless of 
chemotherapy regimen used for combination  
•  Follow-up periods in all studies presented in this dossier which were long enough to allow for 
clinically relevant and meaningful conclusions. 
•  Safety data showing that the safety profile overall of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy 
remains unchanged with no significant additional toxicity, regardless of the chemotherapy regimen 
combined with rituximab 
Furthermore, section 4.2 was restructured in order to clarify posology and method of administration 
with regards to the numbers of chemotherapy cycles recommended for each chemotherapy 
combination option. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
The  German  Low-Grade  Lymphoma  Study  Group  trial  (GLSG’00)  was  performed  as  a  prospective, 
randomized, open-label multicenter phase 3 trial. It was approved by the Institutional Review Board of 
the  Department  of  Medicine,  University  of  Munich,  Germany.  The  study  was  carried  out  in 
accordance with the modified Declaration of Helsinki. All patients gave their written informed consent 
after having been informed about the purpose and investigational nature of the trial. Before initiation 
the  study  received  approval  by  the  responsible  ethics  committee.  Registration  in  a  trials  database, 
monitoring and institutional review are not mentioned in the publication. 
The German OSHO-39 (East German Study Group Hematology and Oncology) trial was performed as 
a  prospective,  randomized,  open-label  multicenter  phase  3  trial.  The  study  complied  with  all  of  the 
requirements  of  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki  and  its  current  amendments  and  was  conducted  in 
accordance  with  good  clinical  practice  guidelines.  All  patients  gave  written  informed  consent.  The 
protocol  and  accompanying  materials  were  approved  by  an  independent  ethics  committee  and  local 
ethics committees at each participating center. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under ID 
00269113. Monitoring and institutional review are not mentioned in the publication. 
The French FL2000 study conducted by the Groupe d’Etudes des Lymphomes de l’Adulte (GELA) in 
collaboration  with  the  Groupe  Ouest-Est  d’Étude  des  Leucémies  et  Autres  Maladies  du  Sang 
(GOELAMS) was performed as a prospective, randomized, open-label multicenter phase 3 trial. The 
protocol was approved by the local or national ethics committees and the national regulatory agency 
according  to  the  French  and  Belgium  regulatory  laws.  Patients  had  to  give  their  written  informed 
consent  prior  to  be  randomized  in  the  study.  The  study  was  registered  on  the  National  Institute  of 
Health  website  (NCT00136552).  Monitoring  and  institutional  review  are  not  mentioned  in  the 
manuscript. 
All three pivotal trials seem to have been conducted in accordance with the principles of GCP. 
Page 4 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 1. 
Clinical efficacy 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
There are no dose-response studies, as  the dose used in the studies for the present application is the 
dose approved for other indications in lymphomas. There is no need for new dose response studies for 
the present application. 
The three main studies for the present application are summarized in Table 1.  
Table 1: Treatment regimens and number of patients in treatment arms 
for the three pivotal randomized studies 
Study  
No. pts. 
(-/+ R) 
Treatment Regimens 
Number of Cycles 
CHOP: 
Cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 i.v .on day 1, 
Doxorubicin 50mg/m2 i.v. on day 1, 
Vincristine 1.4mg/m2 (max. 2.0mg) iv on 
day 1 
Prednisone 100mg/m2 orally daily on days 
1-5 
Rituximab: 
375mg/m2 infusion on day 0 
205/223 
GLSG’00  
OSHO-39 
96/105 
FL2000 
183/175 
MCP: 
Mitoxantrone 8mg/m2 i.v. on days 1 and 2, 
Chlorambucil 3x3mg/m2 p.o. on days 1-5 
Prednisolone 25mg/m2 p.o. on days 1-5 
Rituximab: 
375 mg/m2 infusion two days prior to start 
of chemotherapy 
CHVP-I: 
Cyclophosphamide 600mg/m2 i.v. on day 1, 
Doxorubicin 25mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 
Etoposide 100mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 
Prednisone 40mg/m2 p.o. on days 1-5 
Interferon-α 3x4.5 Mio U/wk s.c. 
Rituximab: 
375mg/m2 infusion on days 1 and 8 (cycle 3 
and 4) and on day 1 (cycle 5 and 6) = 6 
cycles in total 
6 or 8 cycles 
Patients achieving a CR after 4 cycles 
were treated with a total of 6 cycles. All 
other patients received 8 cycles of 
treatment. Due to the low rate of complete 
remissions (overall 19%) the majority of 
patients were scheduled to complete 8 
cycles of treatment. 
Responding patients underwent a second 
randomization to interferon-α 
maintenance treatment (3x5 Mio U/wk 
initial dose) or HDT/ASCT (patients <60 
years) or to one of two interferon-α 
maintenance schedules (patients 
≥ 60 years) 
Maximum of 8 cycles 
Patients with PD or SD after 2 cycles 
were to be withdrawn.  
Patients with a minimal response after 6 
cycles (i.e. tumor remission <50%) were 
also to be withdrawn. 
Responding patients were planned to 
receive interferon-α maintenance 
treatment (3x4.5 Mio U/wk) until PD 
CHVP-I: 
12 cycles CHVP (6 monthly cycles 
followed by 6 bi-monthly cycles) + 18 
months concurrent IFN-α2b 
R-CHVP-I: 
6 monthly cycles CHVP + rituximab + 18 
months concurrent IFN-α2b 
HDT, high dose therapy (DexaBEAM followed by TBI and HDT with cyclophosphamide); ASCT, autologous stem cell 
transplantation; NC, no change 
In study GLSG’00, 630 previously untreated patients with advanced stage FL were randomized to a 
standard  regimen  of  6-8  cycles  (2  cycles  beyond  CR)  of  CHOP  chemotherapy  or  a  combination  of 
rituximab  plus  CHOP  (R-CHOP).  Responding  patients  underwent  a  second  randomization  to  one  of 
two  different  schedules;  either  interferon-α  maintenance  therapy (patients  ≥60  years)  or  interferon-α 
maintenance  therapy  vs.  consolidation  treatment  with  high-dose  therapy  and  stem  cell  support 
(patients <60 years). The primary endpoint for the comparison of CHOP alone vs. R-CHOP was TTF, 
defined  as  the  interval  between  the  start  of  treatment  and  the  documentation  of  resistance  to  initial 
therapy,  progressive  disease  or  death.  The  trial  was  stopped  early  after  an  interim  analysis 
Page 5 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
demonstrated  significant  superiority  for  the  primary  endpoint  TTF  in  favor  of  the  R-CHOP  arm 
(p<0.001) with 428 patients evaluable for analysis of efficacy and safety.  
In  study  OSHO-39,  358  patients  with  indolent  NHL  or  mantle  cell  lymphoma  (MCL)  were 
randomized  to  either  8  cycles  of  rituximab  plus  MCP-chemotherapy  (mitoxantrone,  chlorambucil, 
prednisolone) given every 4 weeks for a total of 8 cycles versus MCP alone. Responding patients with 
follicular histology were scheduled to continue on interferon-α maintenance treatment until PD. The 
primary  efficacy  analysis  population  in  this  study  was  the  population  of  patients  with  follicular 
lymphoma (n=201). The primary endpoint was the remission rate, defined as the rate of complete (CR) 
and  partial  (PR)  remissions  after  induction  therapy.  Secondary  efficacy  parameters  included 
progression-free  survival  (PFS;  interval  from  randomization  date  to  progression  of  disease  or  death 
from NHL), overall survival (OS; interval from randomization date to death from any cause), event-
free survival (EFS; interval from randomization date to treatment failure (defined as PD after 2 cycles 
and  failure  to  achieve  at  least  PR  at  cycle  6,  disease  progression,  relapse  or  death  from  any  cause), 
duration of response (DR; interval from first assessment of CR/PR to disease progression), and time to 
next  anti-lymphoma  treatment  (TTNT;  interval  from  randomization  date  to  the  time  when  new 
treatment was initiated). 
Study FL2000 recruited a total of 359 patients with previously untreated FL. Patients were randomized 
to either 12 courses of CHVP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, prednisolone) plus IFN-α2b 
given over a period of 18 months (CHVP-IFN) or 6 courses of CHVP and rituximab combined with 
IFN-α2b  administered  over  18  months  (R-CHVP-IFN).  The  primary  endpoint  of  the  trial  was  EFS, 
defined  as  the  interval  between  start  of  therapy  and  disease  progression,  initiation  of  new  anti-
lymphoma therapy or death due to any cause. A total of 358 patients were evaluable for efficacy. 
The target population for recruitment into the studies included in this submission were patients with 
advanced  stage  (stage  IIB-IV)  follicular  lymphoma  (FL),  with  high  tumor  burden  and  symptomatic 
disease requiring therapy. The median age of patients enrolled in these three studies ranged between 
54 and 61 years. Between 25% and 40% of patients had B-symptoms at study entry. More than 80% of 
the  enrolled  patients  had  intermediate  to  high  risk  disease  according  to  the  follicular  lymphoma 
international prognostic index (FLIPI) and between 23% and 37% had elevated lactate dehydrogenase 
(LDH) levels. In 60%-74% of patients bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was present. A small 
fraction of patients (6%-9%) had an ECOG score > 1. Overall, the treatment groups in the three key 
randomized  studies  were  comparable  to  the  population  of  patients  in  the  pivotal  study  M39021 
(rituximab in combination with CVP which has already been approved) and generally representative 
for the overall population of patients with advanced stage follicular NHL in need of therapy. 
Within  the  individual  studies,  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to  demographic 
parameters and baseline disease characteristics. 
The key efficacy endpoints differed between the key studies as outlined in Table 2. For the definitions 
of time to event parameters, see also Table 3. Due to the different primary and secondary endpoints, a 
pooling of the data was not possible. 
Table 2: Primary Efficacy Endpoint and Follow-up in the three pivotal randomized studies 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
Median follow-up 
Study  
GLSG’00  
OSHO-39  
Time to treatment failure1) 
Overall response rate2) 
18 months 
47 months 
FL2000  
1) Defined as the interval between the start of treatment and the documentation of resistance to initial therapy, progressive 
Event-free survival 
42 months 
disease, or death. 2) Defined as the rate of CR and PR after induction therapy. 
Results 
Overall, the addition of rituximab to chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone significantly 
improved the outcome of patients for all primary and secondary endpoints in all key studies: 
Page 6 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Overall response (OR) rates and complete remission rates were significantly increased for patients 
who  had  received  rituximab  plus  chemotherapy  compared  to  those  who  had  received 
chemotherapy alone (table 3). ORR with R-chemo were 96% (R-CHOP), 92% (R-MCP), 94% (R-
CHVP-I) and 81% (R-CVP) compared to ORRs with chemotherapy alone of 90% (CHOP), 75% 
(MCP), 85% (CHVP-I) and 57% (CVP). Complete response rates were up to quadrupled with the 
addition  of  rituximab  to  chemotherapy  (CR  rates  20-76%  with  R-chemo  vs.  17-49%  with 
chemotherapy alone). 
•  Time-to  event  parameters  were  significantly 
to 
chemotherapy  compared  to  chemotherapy  alone  with  a  risk  reduction  for  experiencing  disease 
progression or treatment failure of 50-60% across the trials. 
improved  when  rituximab  was  added 
•  OS  rates  also  significantly  improved  in  all  key  trials  when  rituximab  was  combined  with 
chemotherapy  compared  to  chemotherapy  alone  despite  a  limited  follow-up  period  (medians 
between 18-47 months). 
These  results  are  in  line  with  previously  submitted  data  of  patients  with  stage  III-IV  FL  who  had 
received rituximab in combination with CVP first-line (study M39021). 
Table 3  
Summary of Efficacy Results from Randomized Studies 
Parameter 
GLSG’00 
OSHO-39 
FL2000 
ORR 
p-value 
CHOP 
N=205 
90% 
R-CHOP 
N=223 
96% 
0.011 
CR 
PR 
17% 
73% 
20% 
77% 
MCP 
N=96 
75% 
25% 
50% 
R-MCP 
N=105 
92% 
CHVP-IFN 
N=183 
86% 
R-CHVP-IFN 
N=175 
94% 
0.0009 
<0.0001 
50% 
42% 
49% 
37% 
76% 
18% 
Median follow-up  
Median PFS 
p-value 
Median TTF 
18 months 
47 months 
28.8 months Not reached
<0.0001 
42 months 
2.6 
years 
Not reached 
p-value 
0.001 
Median EFS* 
p-value 
3.5 yr EFS 
Median DR 
Median TNT 
p-value 
0.001 
p-value 
0.001 
Overall Survival 
90%1 
95%1 
26 months  Not reached
<0.0001 
35 months  Not reached
<0.0001 
29.4 months Not reached
0.0002 
74%2 
87%2 
0.016 
0.0096 
36 months 
Not reached 
<0.0001 
46% 
67% 
p < 0.0001 
84%3 
91%3 
0.029 
p-value 
Total No of deaths 
Lymphoma-related  
6 
1 
17 
9  
25 
17  
Numbers in bold reflect protocol-defined primary endpoints. *EFS - OSHO’39 interval between randomization to treatment 
failure (defined as disease progression after two cycles and failure to achieve at least a PR at cycle 6, disease progression, 
relapse, or death from any cause). *EFS in FL2000 interval between the start of therapy and disease progression, initiation of 
new anti-lymphoma therapy or death due to any cause. 1 Two-year overall survival rates. 2 Four-year overall survival rates. 3 
Overall survival rates at 42 months (3.5 years). CR: complete response; DR: duration of response; EFS: event-free survival; 
ORR: overall response rate; PFS: progression-free survival; partial response: partial response; TNT: time to new therapy; 
TTF: time to treatment failure. 
15 
7 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Overall, the addition of rituximab to any chemotherapy regimen improved the clinical outcome in all 
subgroup populations analyzed [international prognostic index (IPI), FLIPI, age, quality of response to 
induction therapy]. 
Page 7 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In  study  GLSG’00,  the  beneficial  effects  of  R-CHOP  compared  to  CHOP  were  seen  in  all 
subgroups analyzed according to the IPI (low/low-intermediate vs high-intermediate/high risk) or 
age (<60 years vs. >= 60 years) for the primary endpoint of time to treatment failure. The risk of 
treatment failure was reduced by 60%-70% for all subgroups. In the elderly population, R-CHOP 
also  resulted  in  significantly  improved  PFS  (p<0.0001)  and  OS  (p=0.039)  compared  to  CHOP 
treatment. 
•  Results from study OSHO-39 demonstrated that treatment with R-MCP significantly increased the 
4-year PFS rate as well as prolonged the median time to disease progression or death in patients 
with intermediate (p=0.0016) as well as high risk (p=0.0011) disease according to the FLIPI score. 
Amongst  patients  with  high  risk  disease,  a  significant  improvement  in  overall  survival  was  also 
seen amongst those treated with R-MCP compared with MCP (p=0.0096). 
• 
In study FL2000, subgroup analysis were performed according to the FLIPI score and quality of 
response  [CR/  complete  response  unconfirmed  (CRu)]  to  induction  therapy.  The  results 
demonstrated  a  significant  improvement  in  the  primary  endpoint,  event-free  survival  with  R-
CHVP-IFN compared with CHVP-IFN, for patients with low to intermediate risk (p = 0.0019) as 
well as for patients with high risk disease (p =0.0005). A significant benefit was also seen in the 
subgroup of patients who achieved a CR/CRu (p = 0.002). 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A Cochrane meta-analysis included a total of 1943 patients with indolent lymphoma (most commonly 
follicular  lymphoma  and  mantle  cell  lymphoma)  enrolled  across  seven  controlled  studies  (including 
studies GLSG’00 and OSHO-39) which compared R-chemotherapy with chemotherapy alone. Of the 
seven listed trials, five were in previously untreated patients with stage III or IV disease and two trials 
included patients with relapsed/refractory disease. The chemotherapy regimens used for combination 
with rituximab included CHOP, CNOP, CVP, FCM, and MCP.  
In the pooled population of studies, the ORR was 72% (673 of 935 patients) with chemotherapy-alone 
compared with 87% (854 of 979 patients) in the R-chemotherapy group. The relative risk for response 
with  R-chemotherapy  compared  with  chemotherapy-alone  was  1.21  (95%  confidence  interval  (CI): 
1.16  to  1.27).    Treatment  with  R-chemotherapy  was  associated  with  significantly  more  patients 
achieving  a  complete  response  (relative  risk  2.03,  95%  CI  1.71  to  2.40).  Subgroup  analyses  by 
histology showed higher ORR and CR rates in the R-chemo group compared to the chemo-group for 
both FL and MCL patients. 
Treatment with R-chemotherapy led to significantly superior disease control (defined as progression, 
relapse  or  death)  compared  with  chemotherapy  alone  (HR:  0.62;  95%  0.55  to  0.71).  These  finding 
remained  significant  when  the  analysis  was  conducted  according  to  the  subgroup  of  patients  with 
follicular lymphoma and MCL.  
Overall survival data was available on all 1943 patients included in the meta-analysis. The hazard ratio 
for  death  from  any  cause  was  0.65  (95%  CI:  0.54-0.78)  indicating  a  statistically  significant  better 
overall  survival  in  the  R-chemotherapy  groups  compared  with  the  chemotherapy  alone  groups.  
Amongst the 1480 patients with follicular lymphoma, treatment with R-chemotherapy compared with 
chemotherapy-alone reduced the risk of death by 37% (HR: 0.63, 95% CI 0.51-0.79). Assuming a 2-
year  overall  survival  rate  of  90%  for  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma,  it  was  estimated  that 
approximately 28 patients had to be treated with R-chemotherapy to prevent one additional death in 2 
years. 
The  meta-analysis  contains  7  randomized  trials,  2  of the  trials  are  the  first  2  trials  submitted  by  the 
MAH for the present application, 1 of the trials is the pivotal trial for the approved indication for the 
treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma in combination with 
CVP chemotherapy, 2 of the trials are trials of patients relapsing after previous therapy, 1 of the trials 
is for patients with mantle cell lymphoma only, and 1 of the trials does not specify the type of indolent 
lymphomas included in the trial. Hence, the meta-analysis does not in fact contribute significant new 
Page 8 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information with regard to efficacy for the present application. The results of the meta-analysis are, as 
expected, in accordance with the results of the three pivotal trials. 
Supportive studies 
• 
In a retrospective cohort study, five consecutive cohorts involving 580 patients with stage IV FL 
treated  at  the  M.D.  Anderson  Cancer  Center  between  1972  and  2002  were  analyzed  for  OS, 
failure-free survival and survival after first relapse in order to assess the impact of new treatment 
strategies  on  the  response  of  FL  patients  over  time.  Treatment  regimens  included  were  CHOP-
Bleomycin  (CHOP-Bleo),  CHOP-Bleo  followed  by  interferon-α,  a  rotation  of  three  regimens 
followed  by  interferon-α  (alternating  triple  therapy  –  ATT);  fludarabine,  mitoxantrone, 
dexamethasone  followed  by  interferon-α  (FND)  and  FND  plus  delayed  or  concurrent  rituximab 
followed by interferon-α (R-FND). Median follow-up times of survivors for the five cohorts were 
23.7 years, 17.5 years, 12 years, 8.2 years, and 3.3 years respectively. The results showed a steady 
increase  in  5-year  OS  rates  over  time  from  64%  with  CHOP-Bleo  to  95%  with  R-FND 
(p<0.0001). Notable increments in OS occurred with the incorporation of interferon-α in 1982 and 
rituximab  in  1997  (p<0.05).  Like  the  data  on  OS,  the  failure-free  survival  (FFS)  showed  a 
stepwise improvement with the more recent studies from a median FFS of 2.8 years with CHOP-
Bleo to the median not being reached with R-FND. These observations held true after controlling 
for differences in prognostic factors among the cohorts. 
•  The GLSG analyzed two consecutive study generations covering a ten year period for remission 
rates, time to treatment failure (TTF) and OS in order to identify treatment modalities leading to 
improvements  in  overall  survival  for  patients  with  advanced  stage  follicular  lymphoma.  The 
analysis  was  adjusted  for  risk  factors  according  to  the  FLIPI  and  the  type  of  induction  regimen 
(including  rituximab  or  not).  A  total  of  1332  patients  with  complete  data  sets  were  collected 
between 1996 and 2005. Therapies included CHOP and MCP in GLSG Study’96 and CHOP and 
R-CHOP  in  GLSG  Study’00.  CHOP  was  superior  to  MCP  in  terms  of  OR  rates,  but  did  not 
improve  TTF  or  OS  compared  to  MCP.  Although  the  entry  criteria  and  the  distribution  of  risk 
factors  were  nearly  identical  in  both  study  generations,  patients  in  study  GLSG’00  had  a 
significantly higher OR rate (94% vs. 88%, odds ratio 0.47; p=0.0002), a longer TTF (median 48 
months  vs.  32  months,  relative  risk  0.66;  p<0.0001)  and  a  longer  OS  (4-year  OS  89%  vs.  78%, 
relative  risk  0.42;  p<0.0001)  when  compared  to  patients  in  study  GLSG’96.  Multiple  Cox-
regression analysis identified rituximab as being the determinant parameter for the differences in 
ORR  (adjusted  odds  ratio  0.45,  p<0.0001),  TTF  (adjusted  relative  risk  0.39,  p<0.0001)  and  OS 
(adjusted relative risk 0.44, p=0.0064). Hence, rituximab was identified as the essential treatment 
modality that underlies the improvement in short and long term outcome of patients with advanced 
stage FL. 
• 
In a retrospective cohort study from the Gruppo Italiano Studio Linfomi (GISL), 438 patients with 
advanced  stage,  histologically  confirmed  diagnosis  of  follicular  lymphoma  who  met  the  defined 
eligibility criteria were included in the analysis. Of these, 307 previously untreated patients were 
treated  with  one  of  the  following  regimens:  ProMECE-CytaBOM  (36  patients,  group  1), 
bleomycin,  epidoxorubicin,  cyclophosphamide,  vincristine,  prednisone  (BACOP;  66  patients, 
group  2),  BACOP/FND  (144  patients,  group  3)  or  BACOP/F  in  combination  with  rituximab 
(61 patients,  group  4).  One  hundred  and  thirty-one  patients  with  recurring  disease  were  treated 
with CHOP or FC (52 patients, group 5), or with CHOP or FC in combination with rituximab (79 
patients, group 6). 
The median FFS improved stepwise with evolving treatments from group 1 to group 4 which was 
the group of patients receiving treatment with rituximab. This significant improvement over time 
was confirmed by a Cox regression analysis adjusted for FLIPI scores and radiotherapy. Of note, 
improvements  in  FFS  were  particularly  evident  in  cohort  4  patients  treated  with  rituximab.  The 
relative  risk  reduction  for  FFS  with  the  rituximab-chemotherapy  regimen  in  cohort  4  compared 
with cohort 1 was 76% (95% CI: 49% to 89%) and compared with cohort 3 was 51%. Amongst 
treatment-naïve patients, the 4-yr overall survival was 76%, 87%, 82% and 97% in groups 1, 2, 3 
and 4, respectively, although the overall p-value (for the comparison of survival curves between 
the  studies)  was  not  significant.    However,  after  adjusting  for  the  FLIPI  score  in  the  Cox 
Page 9 of 15 
 
 
 
 
regression model, there was a significant reduction in the hazard ratio from group 1 to 4. Of note, 
the  relative  risk  reduction  for  mortality  with  the  rituximab-chemotherapy  regimen  in  group  4 
compared with group 1 was 91% (95% CI: 30% to 98%) and 71% compared to group 3.  
The  impact  of  rituximab  used  as  part  of  salvage  therapy  was  investigated  by  an  analysis  of 
survival  after  recurrence  (SAR)  in  131  relapsed  patients.  The  5-year  estimate  of  SAR  was 
significantly longer for patients who received rituximab in combination with chemotherapy (group 
6) compared with patients who received chemotherapy alone at the time of relapse (group 5) (74% 
versus  57%,  p=0.032).  This  statistically  significant  difference  in  SAR  was  maintained  after  the 
analysis was adjusted for age and duration of the previous remission (p=0.014). 
The  retrospective  cohort  analyzes  present  data  from  patients  treated  at  the  M.D.  Anderson  Cancer 
Center  over  a  25-year  period,  by  the  German  Low  Grade  Lymphoma  Study  Group  over  a  10-year 
period,  and  by  the  Gruppo  Italiano  Studio  Linfomi  over  a  16-year  period.  None  of  these  analyzes 
contain  patients  randomized  in  trials  relevant  to  the  present  application.  Comparisons  of  treatments 
with  and  without  Rituximab  are  retrospective  and  bias  cannot  be  excluded.  The  results  of  these 
analyzes are in accordance with the findings of the three randomized trials. They do not, however, by 
themselves contribute significantly with regard to efficacy for the present application. 
Data from five uncontrolled phase II studies provide additional supportive evidence of the efficacy of 
rituximab when added to various chemotherapy regimens (single agent or combinations). Although the 
majority of studies were in the first-line setting, the protocols of two studies also allowed recruitment 
of relapsed patients (table 1).   
The ORR across the studies was very high and in the range 89% to 100% with a complete response 
rate of between 55% and 96%. The median duration of follow-up ranged between 2.8 and 9 years. The 
most impressive results were seen in the study by Czuczman et al using the R-CHOP regimen; with a 
median follow-up of 9 years, the median time to progression and the median duration of response were 
nearly 7 years. 
Lead 
Investigator 
Regimen  
Number of Pts 
Study Phase 
Patients 
ORR 
CR 
Median 
duration of 
follow-up 
Median TTP 
Median DR 
II 
Untreated or 
relapsed 
100% 
87% 
9 years 
82.3 months 
83.5 months 
3 year - FFS 
3 year PFS 
3 year OS 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Table 1: Summary of Efficacy Results from Supportive Studies 
Czuczman et al  
Fayad et al   Czuczman et al  Hainsworth et al   Martinelli et al  
R-CHOP 
N=38 
R-CHOP 
N=45 
R-fludarabine 
N=40 
II 
Histologic 
grade 3 FL 
100% 
96% 
33 month 
II 
Low grade or 
FL 
90% 
80% 
44 months 
Not reported  Not reached 
Not reported 
61% at 
44 months 
73% 
Not reported 
Not reported  Not reported 
97% 
85% at 
44 months 
R-CVP or 
R-CHOP 
N=86 
II 
Grade 1 or 2 FL 
93% 
55% 
42 months 
R-chlorambucil 
N=27 
II 
Untreated or 
relapsed 
89% 
63% 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
71% 
95% 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Not reported 
DR, duration of response; ORR, overall response rate; CR, complete response; OS, overall survival; TTP, 
time to progression; FFS, failure free survival; PFS, progression-free survival 
The  results  of  these  phase  II  studies  do  not  yield  significant  information  regarding  the  value  of  the 
addition  of  rituximab  to  chemotherapy,  but  their  results  are  in  accordance  with  the  findings  of  the 
pivotal studies.   
Page 10 of 15 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 2. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The overall evaluation of the safety of rituximab in combination with any chemotherapy (R-Chemo) is 
mainly derived from safety information available from three key randomized studies including a total 
of  987  patients.  Additional  evidence  about  the  safety  profile  of  rituximab  in  combination  with 
different  chemotherapy  regimens  comes  from  the  Cochrane  meta-analysis  and  multiple  phase  II 
studies. For the purpose of the discussion, safety data of the pivotal study M39021 (CVP or R-CVP in 
patients  with  advanced  stage  follicular  lymphoma)  are  be  presented  alongside  safety  results  of  the 
three key randomized studies. 
In study OSHO-39, all eight cycles of treatment were administered to 88% of patients in the R-MCP 
arm and to 67% of patients in the MCP arm. This difference in exposure was mainly accounted for by 
more patients withdrawing from the MCP than from the R-MCP arm due to treatment failure during 
therapy: failures due to progressive disease (PD) after 2 cycles occurred in 3 (R-MCP) and 10 (MCP) 
patients  and  failure  to  achieve  at  least  PR  after  6  cycles  occurred  in  7  (R-MCP)  and  22  (MCP) 
patients.  Mean  doses  of  study  drug  administered  were  as  follows:  rituximab,  660−680  mg/cycle; 
mitoxantrone, 24−28 mg/cycle; chlorambucil, 68−81 mg/cycle and prednisolone, 226−231 mg/cycle. 
Dose  intensity  of  the  chemotherapy  did  not  differ  between  treatment  arms.  Interferon-alpha 
maintenance treatment (3 x 4.5 million units per week until disease progression) was initiated in 97% 
and 92% of responding patients in the R-MCP group and the MCP group, respectively. To date, the 
median  duration  of  interferon  maintenance  treatment  is  15.5  months  in  the  R-MCP  group  and  9.5 
months  in  the  MCP  group  with  the  difference  being  due  to  earlier  disease  progression  in  the  MCP 
group.  
In study FL2000, 94% of patients in the CHVP-IFN arm and 95% of patients in the R-CHVP-IFN arm 
received the initial six cycles of treatment. Of those patients who did not progress during therapy, 153 
(98%) and 161 (98%) patients on CHVP-IFN and R-CHVP-IFN, respectively, completed the planned 
chemotherapy induction courses during the first 6 months. In the CHVP-IFN arm, 116 (89%) of the 
patients  not  experiencing  disease  progression  received  the  6  planned  bi-monthly  cycles  of 
chemotherapy  consolidation  following  induction  treatment.  In  total,  237  (66%)  patients  received 
interferon-alpha  treatment  according  to  the  protocol:  dose  modifications  occurred  in  45  patients  and 
short (less than 4 weeks) interruptions occurred in 55 patients without significant differences between 
the two study arms. Interferon-alpha treatment was stopped due to disease progression in 50 patients 
(CHVP-IFN arm 31 cases; R-CHVP-IFN arm 19 cases). Dose interruptions for more than one month 
or  stopping  of  interferon-alpha  treatment  were  reported  in  47  patients  (26%)  in  the  CHVP-IFN  arm 
and 41 patients (23 %) in the R-CHVP-IFN arm. 
Adverse events 
Overall, the safety profile of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy (R-Chemo) as described in 
the key studies in this submission is consistent with the safety profile of rituximab in combination with 
CHOP  or  CVP  chemotherapy  as  reported  in  studies  M39021  (R-CVP,  untreated  FL),  M39022  (R-
CHOP,  relapsed/refractory  FL),  BO16368  (R-CHOP  in  elderly  patients  with  DLBCL)  and  M39045 
(R-Chemo  in  younger  patients  with  DLBCL).  An  increase  in  all  grade  AEs  was  observed  in  the 
rituximab containing arms of all key studies compared to chemotherapy alone, which was mainly due 
to  a  higher  incidence  of  leukopenia  and/or  neutropenia,  infection  and  allergy.  Importantly,  although 
the  incidence  of  infections  of  all  grades  was  usually  slightly  increased  with  rituximab  added  to 
chemotherapy,  none  of  the  studies  reported  a  significant  increase  in  the  incidence  of  grade  3/4 
infections. There were no new or unexpected toxicities observed. 
The  most  common  ( ≥ 10%  in  at  least  one  treatment  group)  reported  AEs  of  any  grade  reported  in 
studies GLSG’00 and OSHO-39 included blood and bone marrow disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, 
skin toxicities, neurological disorders, infections, fever bone pain and other.  
The higher incidence of AEs of all grades in the rituximab containing arms was mainly due to a higher 
incidence of blood and bone marrow disorders (leukopenia and/or neutropenia) and allergy (including 
rash) as well as more gastrointestinal disorders in study OSHO-39. Other AEs that were observed at a 
Page 11 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher frequency (≥ 2% difference in all grade AEs in the rituximab containing arms) in at least one of 
the studies included infections, fever, cardiac arrhythmia, neurological disorders and bone pain. 
The most common grade 3/4 adverse events included blood and bone marrow disorders, and alopecia. 
A  higher  incidence  of  grade  3/4  AEs  in  the  rituximab  containing  arms  was  observed  for  blood  and 
bone marrow disorders in studies GLSG’00 and OSHO-39. Other grade 3/4 AEs that were observed at 
a higher frequency (≥ 2% difference in grade 3/4 AEs in the rituximab containing arms) in at least one 
of the studies included alopecia, infection, cardiac disorders and bone pain.  
Of note, in study GLSG’00 there was a slight increase in grade 3/4 cardiac events (cardiac dysfunction 
and  cardiac  arrhythmia)  in  the  rituximab  containing  arm  (1%  of  patients  on  CHOP  versus  5%  of 
patients  on  R-CHOP  with  a  cardiac  event).  However,  no  difference  in  the  incidence  of  grade  3/4 
cardiac events was observed in study FL2000. 
Adverse events related to the infusion of rituximab occurred in 7% of courses during the first infusion 
in one particular key study (GLSG’00); early cessation of rituximab therapy was required in 2 patients. 
The overall safety profile of rituximab combined with different chemotherapy regimen as described in 
the key studies is similar to the safety profile observed in the pivotal study M39021 comparing CVP 
with R-CVP. In this study, an increase in all grade and grade 3/4 AEs was observed in the R-CVP arm. 
In most of the cases, AEs with a higher incidence in the R-CVP group were those already recognized 
as belonging to the safety profile of rituximab, mostly typical of infusion-related reactions (IRRs). In 
addition, the incidence of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was higher for patients in the R-CVP arm than for 
patients on CVP treatment (24% versus 14%). However, this was not associated with an increased rate 
of grade 3/4 infections. 
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders 
As  observed  in  previous  studies  (M39021,  table  5),  a  higher  frequency  of  leukopenia  and/or 
granulocytopenia of all grades and grades 3/4 was observed after treatment with R-Chemo in studies 
GLSG’00, and OSHO-39. In contrast to these two studies, grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred at a higher 
incidence in the chemotherapy alone arm (62% with CHVP-IFN vs 59% with R-CHVP-IFN) in study 
FL2000. This difference is due to the different number of treatment cycles for the CHVP regimen in 
the study arms: in the chemotherapy alone arm, 12 cycles of CHVP given over a period of 12 months 
were administered in combination with interferon-α, whereas in the rituximab-containing arm only 6 
cycles of CHVP were given over a period of 6 months in combination with rituximab and interferon-α. 
Table 5 Overview of Grade 3 and 4 Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders in Studies  
GLSG’00, OSHO-39, FL2000 and M39021 
FL2000 
OSHO-39   
GLSG’00  
M39021  
CHOP 
(N=205) 
R-CHOP 
(N=222) 
MCP 
(N=96) 
R-MCP 
(N=105) 
61% 
69% 
58% 
72% 
CHVP-
IFN 
(N=183) 
n.r. 
R-CHVP-
IFN 
(N=175) 
n.r. 
CVP 
(N=159) 
R-CVP 
(N=162) 
9% 
12% 
53% 
63% 
n.r. 
n.r. 
62% 
59% 
13% 
24% 
Grade 3/4 
Leukopenia 
Grade 3/4 
Neutropenia 
n.r., not reported 
Overall,  grade  3/4  granulocytopenia  was  more  frequently  encountered  after  rituximab  treatment  in 
combination  with  CHOP  (63%)  than  after  treatment  in  combination  with  CVP  (24%)  or  CHVP-I 
(59%). However, clinically relevant infections (grade 3/4) were not significantly different between the 
rituximab-containing and the chemotherapy alone arms in any of the studies described. 
Infections and Infestations 
Overall,  between  36%  and  49%  of  patients  in  studies  GLSG’00  and  OSHO-39  experienced  an 
infection.  The  incidence  of  infections  of  all  grade  was  slightly  higher  in  the  rituximab-containing 
treatment arm: 36% with CHOP vs. 38% with R-CHOP in study GLSG’00, 43% with MCP vs. 49% 
Page 12 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with R-MCP in study OSHO-39. For study FL2000, no rates for patients experiencing an infection of 
any grade were provided.  
Importantly,  although  the  incidence  of  all  grades  infection  was  usually  higher  in  the  rituximab-
containing treatment arms of the studies conducted, the incidence of grade 3/4 infections was always 
comparable  between  R-chemo  and  chemotherapy  alone:  7%  after  CHOP  vs.  5%  after  R-CHOP 
(GLSG’00),  8%  after  MCP  vs.  7%  after  R-MCP  (OSHO-39)  and  0%  after  CHVP-I  vs  2%  after  R-
CHVP-I. 
These  rates  of  all  grade  and  grade  3/4  infections  reported  in  the  key  studies  above  are  in  line  with 
previously  reported  incidences  of  infections  in  patients  with  FL  or  DLBCL  from  other  randomized 
trials. 
Safety Results of the Cochrane Meta-analysis 
Safety  data  is  available  from  the  meta-analysis  performed  by  the  Cochrane  Hematological 
Malignancies  Group.  In  summary,  the  analysis  confirmed  the  observations  from  the  three  key 
randomized  studies:  patients  treated  with  R-Chemo  experienced  significantly  more  leukopenia  and 
fever than patients with chemotherapy alone, but there were no significant differences in the incidence 
of infections or thrombocytopenia between the groups. 
Post Marketing Surveillance 
Post-marketing surveillance data collected in the global rituximab safety database with a data cut-off 
of  April  30,  2007  are  consistent  with  the  safety  profile  in  the  three  key  studies  and  the  supportive 
safety information from the meta-analysis.  
In  the  global  database  with  over  10,000  AEs  reported,  the  most  frequently  reported  events  were 
infection  and  infestation  (15%),  blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders  (14%),  general  disorders  and 
administration site conditions (11%) and respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders (10%). Where 
data  on  chemotherapy  regimens  combined  with  rituximab  is  available,  the  most  frequently  reported 
AEs  in  any  rituximab-chemotherapy  combination  were  blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders, 
infections and infestations, respiratory disorders, general disorders and gastrointestinal disorders, apart 
from R-CVP where the order is slightly different: respiratory, general, blood and lymphatic, infections 
and infestations, investigations and gastrointestinal disorders.  
The  overall  conclusion  from  post-marketing  experience  is  that  the  safety  profile  and  the  benefit/risk 
assessment  for  rituximab  in  combination  with  any  chemotherapy  regimen  remain  favorable  for 
patients with advanced stage (stage III-IV) FL. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
In the randomized studies with information on deaths, a higher number of death cases were reported 
for the chemotherapy alone arms compared to the R-Chemo arms. A total of 23 deaths (17 CHOP and 
6 R-CHOP) and 40 deaths (25 MCP and 15 R-MCP) occurred in study GLSG’00 and study OSHO-39, 
respectively.  This  increase  in  death  cases  in  the  chemotherapy  arms  was  predominantly  due  to 
progression of disease (9 versus 1 patient in study GLSG’00 and 17 versus 7 patients in study OSHO-
39). Eight and 5 patients (on CHOP and R-CHOP, respectively) in study GLSG’00 and 8 patients in 
each  treatment  arm  in  study  OSHO-39  died  due  to  lymphoma-unrelated  causes.  In  study  FL2000,  a 
total of 45 patients had died at the time of the analysis at 42 months (29 on CHVP-IFN and 16 on R-
CHVP-IFN). No information was available on the cause of death from this study. These data do not 
indicate any increase in deaths due to toxicity of rituximab. 
Laboratory findings 
No  information  on  clinical  laboratory  evaluations  was  available  from  the  studies  presented  in  this 
application. Extensive data are available from previous applications for the now approved indications, 
and from post-marketing data. 
Safety in special populations 
Except for results on an elderly population in study GLSG’00, no safety information was available on 
special groups and situations from the studies presented in this application.  
Page 13 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  GLSG’00,  no  new,  unexpected  safety  signals  were  detected  in  the  elderly  population  (≥ 60 
years of age, n=221). In line with the analysis on the full safety population, the most common AEs of 
any  grade  included  blood  and  bone  marrow  disorders,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  skin  toxicities, 
neurological disorders, cardiac disorders, infections and fever. Most of the AEs were mild to moderate 
in  intensity  except  for  alopecia,  leukopenia  and  neutropenia,  which  were  mainly  of  grade  3/4  in 
intensity. 
Immunological events 
No specific information on immunological events is presented, except for the listed numbers of blood 
and lymphatic system disorders and immune system disorders.  
Discontinuation due to AES 
In  the  GLSG’00  trial  early  discontinuation  of  rituximab  was  required  in  2  patients.  No  early 
discontinuations were reported in the OSHO-39 trial and the FL2000. 
3. 
Overall Discussion and Benefit- Risk assessment 
A number of clinical trials evaluated the efficacy of rituximab in combination with various different 
chemotherapy  regimens.  The  results  from  the  three  key  randomized  trials,  plus  the  pivotal  study 
M39021,  using  rituximab  in  combination  with  either  CVP,  CHOP,  CHVP  or  MCP  as  the 
chemotherapy backbone consistently demonstrated significant superiority in terms of PFS and/or EFS. 
More importantly, all studies also showed a significant improvement in terms of overall survival for 
any  of  the  four  chemotherapy  regimens  combined  with  rituximab  when  compared  to  chemotherapy 
alone. 
These  findings  in  randomized  clinical  trials  were  further  confirmed  in  subsequent  meta-analyses 
incorporating key studies including the 4 randomized trials mentioned, in retrospective cohort studies 
and in other studies evaluating fludarabine-based regimens in combination with rituximab. In addition, 
a  number  of  phase  II  studies  where  longer  follow-up  was  available  suggested  that  combining 
rituximab with regimens such as fludarabine, CHOP or chlorambucil was effective and induced long-
lasting responses. 
In conclusion, the published efficacy results from different clinical trials strongly support the use of 
rituximab  in  combination  with  various  chemotherapy  regimens  without  restriction  to  the  CVP 
regimen. 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  rituximab  in  combination  with  different  chemotherapy  regimens  as 
presented in this Clinical Overview is similar to that observed in previous clinical experience. Overall, 
adding  rituximab  to  different  chemotherapy  regimens  increases  the  incidence  of  neutropenia  and/or 
leucopenia,  allergy  or  infusion-related  reactions  as  well  as  infections.  An  increase  in  grade  3/4 
neutropenia usually did not translate into an increase in grade 3/4 infection. No significant new safety 
concerns  have  been  observed  in  the  three  key  studies  and  the  Cochrane  meta-analysis,  in  which  a 
number of different concomitant chemotherapy regimens have been used. In summary, the addition of 
rituximab  to  various  different  chemotherapy  regimens  did  not  significantly  increase  the  toxicity  of 
chemotherapy. 
The  data  from  all  the  studies  presented  in  this  dossier  consistently  demonstrate  that  rituximab 
significantly  improves  the  outcome  of  patients  with  advanced  stage  FL  when  given  first-line  in 
addition  to  any  chemotherapy  regimen.  Specifically,  the  addition  of  rituximab  to  chemotherapy 
significantly  improves  response  rates  and  long-term  outcomes  for  patients  with  advanced  stage  FL 
receiving: 
• 
• 
• 
six to eight cycles of R-CHOP. These beneficial effects were seen in all patient subgroups 
analyzed according to disease risk (FLIPI) or age (GLSL’00). 
eight cycles of R-MCP (study OSHO-39). 
six cycles of R-CHVP-I (study FL2000). 
Page 14 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
–  Additional  evidence  from  meta-analyses,  retrospective  cohort  studies  and  a  number  of  phase  II 
trials supports a consistent clinical benefit including improved overall survival when rituximab is 
added to any chemotherapy regimen.  
–  All these results are in line with the improved clinical outcome seen in patients who received eight 
cycles of CVP in combination with rituximab in the pivotal study M39021. 
–  Across all studies, no new safety signals were observed and rituximab did not add to the toxicity 
of chemotherapy. 
All studies consistently demonstrated significant superiority in terms of PFS and/or EFS for combined 
immunochemotherapy.  The  addition  of  rituximab  to  chemotherapy  significantly  reduced  the  risk  for 
disease progression or treatment failure by 40-60% across the trials. More importantly, all studies have 
also  shown  a  significant  improvement  in  overall  survival  for  all  of  the  four  chemotherapy  regimens 
combined with rituximab  when compared to chemotherapy alone. Overall  survival is considered the 
most important endpoint in clinical trials evaluating follicular lymphoma and is a robust and unbiased 
endpoint, which is not affected by differences in study design such as schedule and methodology of 
assessment  of  tumor  response.  In  those  trials  where  hazard  ratios  for  OS  were  available,  the  risk  of 
death  was  reduced  by  40-50%  when  patients  were  treated  with  immunochemotherapy  compared  to 
chemotherapy alone. 
A  higher  incidence  of  infusion-related  reactions/allergy,  blood  and  bone  marrow  disorders 
(neutropenia) and infections have been described in association with rituximab treatment in previous 
studies. Increases in all grade and grade 3/4 leukopenia/neutropenia and infections were also observed 
in the key studies supplied in this application. These toxicites were manageable and did not change the 
risk-benefit  assessment  of  previous  studies.  No  new  or  unexpected  toxicities  were  reported  in  the 
submitted  three  key  randomized  studies.  In  summary,  the  overall  safety  profile  of  rituximab  in 
combination  with  any  chemotherapy  reported  in  the  key  studies  supporting  this  application  is 
consistent with the safety profile as previously described in other trials. 
Since the indication is an enlargement of the existing one, the submission of a Risk Management Plan 
was not considered necessary. 
In conclusion, the data from the key publications in this submission, along with data from supportive 
published  studies,  provide  enough  evidence  justifying  the  use  of  rituximab  in  combination  with  any 
chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with advanced stage follicular lymphoma.  
The overall Benefit/Risk of rituximab is positive if administered in combination with chemotherapy in 
combination treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma.    
Page 15 of 15 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
