1. 
Introduction 
MabThera (rituximab) is a genetically engineered chimeric mouse/human monoclonal antibody which 
binds specifically to the transmembrane antigen, CD20. This antigen is located on pre-B- and mature 
B-lymphocytes, but not on hemopoietic stem cells, pro-B cells, normal plasma cells or other normal 
cells.  The  CD20  antigen  is  also  expressed  on  >95%  of  all  B  cell  NHL.  After  binding  to  the  CD20 
antigen  on  the  cell  surface,  rituximab  is  believed  to  exert  its  therapeutic  effect  by  promoting  B  cell 
lysis.  Possible  mechanisms  of  cell  lysis  include  complement-dependent  cytotoxicity,  antibody-
dependent cellular cytotoxicity and induction of apoptosis.   
MabThera is available in single-use vials containing 100 mg/10 ml and 500 mg/50 ml concentrate for 
solution  for  infusion.  It  is  currently  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma 
stage III-IV who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy, 
for  the  treatment  of  previously  untreated  patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  lymphoma  in 
combination  with  CVP  chemotherapy,  and  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  CD20  positive  diffuse 
large B cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) in combination with CHOP chemotherapy.  
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder,  Roche,  applied  for  the  extension  of  the  indication  in 
maintenance treatment of patients with follicular lymphoma responding to induction therapy.  
The  application  is  based  on  a  randomized,  open-label,  inter-group,  multi-center,  prospective, 
controlled  clinical  trial  with  334  patients  (study  EORTC  20981)  comparing  maintenance  treatment 
with  375mg/m²  i.v.  once  every  3  months  for  up  to  24  months  with  observation  in  the  treatment  of 
follicular lymphoma.  
2. 
Clinical aspects 
Follicular  lymphoma,  the  second  most  common  subtype  of  NHL,  is  an  illness  of  middle-aged  and 
older people, with a median age at diagnosis of approximately 60 years.  Most patients (>80%) with 
follicular lymphoma present with widespread disease at the time of diagnosis.  Although the disease 
generally  follows  an  indolent  course,  with  a  median  survival  of  8-10  years  from  diagnosis,  it  is 
considered  to  be  incurable  with  currently  available  treatments.    Therefore,  treatment  initiation  is 
usually delayed until the disease becomes symptomatic and requires therapeutic intervention.   
Once treatment is warranted, initial response rates  are typically high, but are followed inevitably by 
relapse.  Subsequent treatments after relapse still achieve remissions, but at progressively lower rates 
and of shorter durations.  Over the course of the disease, a patient with follicular lymphoma usually 
receives  between  3  and  7  different  treatment  regimens  of  varying  intensities.  Standard  treatment 
consists  of  single  or  multidrug  chemotherapy,  which  is  today  usually  combined  with  anti-CD20 
antibodies. The problem is obtaining durable remissions.  
Maintenance treatment to prolong the duration of remission has been attempted with cytotoxic agents 
or interferon-alpha, and trials have suggested some benefit. However, short and long term toxicity as 
well as inconvenience has limited the adoption into clinical practice, and other less toxic alternatives 
are sought. 
The  likelihood  of  developing  resistant  lymphoma  or  secondary  malignancies  (e.g.  myelodysplastic 
syndrome  [MDS]  or  acute  myeloid  leukemia  [AML])  increases  with  time  and  the  number,  intensity 
and choice of previous cytotoxic treatments.  Five-year incidence rates of approximately 3% to 18% 
have been reported for MDS/AML after high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell support for follicular 
lymphoma and the prognosis is poor.   
Follicular lymphoma may also transform to an intermediate or high-grade lymphoma.  This occurs in 
40%  to  70%  of  patients  by  8-10  years  after  diagnosis.    Once  transformation  has  occurred,  the 
prognosis is generally poor, with a median survival of between 2.5 and 22 months.  The majority of 
patients with follicular lymphoma eventually die from their disease. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The addition of rituximab to standard induction chemotherapy in indolent lymphomas has been shown 
to  improve  outcome.  Hence,  the  possibility  that  rituximab  as  maintenance  treatment  might  prolong 
remission duration was investigated.  
Rituximab  is  being  developed  for  the  treatment  of  CD20  positive  lymphomas,  and  recently  also  for 
certain autoimmune diseases, e.g. rheumatoid arthritis. Rituximab is already approved, either alone or 
in  combination  with  chemotherapy,  as  induction  treatment  for  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma  or 
diffuse large B cell lymphoma.  
The clinical development program for rituximab as maintenance treatment for patients with follicular 
lymphoma responding to induction therapy consists mainly of data from one large pivotal study phase 
III  study  (EORTC  20981)  including  334  patients  randomized  in  the  maintenance  phase.  Supportive 
data on the use of rituximab in the maintenance setting are provided from five studies (GLSG-FCM, 
SAKK 35/98, LYM-5, U0824n, ECOG 1496).  
A  large  proportion  of  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma  are  elderly,  and  analyses  of  toxicity  in  this 
subgroup  were  specifically  carried  out.  Follicular  lymphoma  is  extremely  rare  in  children,  and  no 
particular paediatric development was made. 
Pharmacokinetics 
2. 1. 
No new pharmacokinetic data have been submitted. The standard rituximab dose of 375 mg/m2 was 
used  in  both  parts  of  study  EORTC  20981.    This  dose  has  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  previous 
studies in follicular lymphoma as well as in other indications, and is therefore the recommended dose 
for  maintenance  treatment  in  follicular  lymphoma.  A  pharmacokinetic  study  in  patients  with 
relapsed/recurrent NHL (Bernstein et al., Ann. Oncol., 1998) showed that at 3 month responders had a 
higher  median  rituximab  serum  levels  25.4  µg/mL  compared  to  5.9  µg/mL  in  non-responders.  The 
majority of patients (104/143) had detectable rituximab levels at 3 months whereas only 13/104 had 
detectable  rituximab  levels  at  6  months.  A  second  study  in  patients  with  B-cell  lymphoproliferative 
disorders (Gordan et al., J. Clin. Oncol., 2005) indicated that rituximab should be administered every 
2-4  months  to  maintain  drug  levels  above  25  µg/ml.  These  studies  support  a  3-monthly  dosing 
schedule for rituximab for maintenance treatment. 
2.2. 
Clinical efficacy 
National Scientific Advice was given by the DKMA, Denmark, (rapporteur), October 2004, and by the 
AFSSAPS, France, January 2005, regarding the length of follow-up and the necessity for analyses of 
patient subgroups according to induction regimen. The advice was followed. 
The  pivotal  study  (EORTC  20981)  was  conducted  according  to  the  EU  GCP  guidelines  and  in 
agreement  with  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki  (as  amended  in  Tokyo,  Venice  and  Hong  Kong).  The 
protocol,  the  protocol  amendments,  the  patient  information  sheet,  informed  consent,  and  the  case 
report  form  (CRF)  were  approved  by  the  EORTC  Protocol  Review  Committee  and  by  the  local, 
regional  or  national  Ethical  Review  Boards.    All  studies  in  the  rituximab  clinical  development 
program were performed in accordance with current standards for the design, conduct, and analysis of 
clinical research. 
Clinical Trials 
One large randomized study (EORTC 20981) including 334 patients was submitted as the main study 
supporting  the  claimed  indication.  In  addition  to  the  pivotal  study  EORTC  20981,  supportive  data 
from  five  published  studies  (GLSG-FCM,  SAKK35/98,  LYM-5,  U0824n  and  ECOG  1496)  of 
rituximab maintenance regimens are provided. Out of those, three studies (GLSG-FCM, SAKK35/98 
and  LYM-5)  were  performed  in  relapsed/refractory  patients  and  two  studies  in  previously  untreated 
patients  (ECOG  1496  and  U0824n).  Table  1  and  2  below  provide  an  overview  of  submitted  studies 
with rituximab maintenance in NHL. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Overview of submitted studies in support of the indication maintenance treatment 
Induction 
regimen 
Study Type 
number 
of 
Total 
patients 
enrolled 
induction/maintenance  
Median follow-up 
time 
Relapsed or refractory indolent NHL 
Pivotal study EORTC 20981 
CHOP  vs.  R-
CHOP 
Randomized 
465/334 
Randomized 
Randomized 
147/184 
114/90 
FCM  or  R-
FCM 
Rituximab 
GLSG-FCM 
(Hiddemann et al1) 
LYM-5  
(Hainsworth et al2)) 
Previously untreated indolent NHL 
U0824n  
(Hainsworth et al3)  
ECOG 1496  
(Hochster et al4) 
Both previously treated and untreated indolent NHL 
SAKK  35/98  (Ghielmini  et 
al5)  
Rituximab  
Rituximab 
Non-
randomized 
Randomized 
202/151 
 35 months  
31months 
induction 
28months 
maintenance 
36 months 
41 months 
55 months 
N/A 
Table 2: Submitted studies: Rituximab maintenance regimens  
Maintenance  
Active regimen 
Relapsed or refractory indolent NHL 
Pivotal  study  EORTC 
20981 
Rituximab  375  mg/m2  every  3  months 
until  disease  progression  or  for  a 
maximum period of two years 
Rituximab  375  mg/m2  weekly  for  4 
weeks  at  3  and  9  months  after  end  of 
induction 
Standard regimen repeated at 6 monthly 
intervals  for  4  courses  or  rituximab 
retreatment at relapse 
Maintenance  
control regimen  
observation 
observation 
  N (maint) 
334 
184 
None,  in  the  control  arm 
rituximab  was  given  after 
relapse as ‘retreatment’ 
44 maintenance 
46 retreatment 
GLSG-FCM 
LYM-5  
Previously untreated indolent NHL 
U0824n  
ECOG 1496  
Non-randomized 
Standard regimen repeated at 6 monthly intervals for 4 courses 
Rituximab  375  mg/m2  weekly  for  4 
weeks, repeated 6 monthly for 4 courses 
 Observation  
Both previously treated and untreated indolent NHL 
SAKK 35/98    
Rituximab  375  mg/m2  every  2  months 
for 4 courses 
observation 
62 
322 
151 
1 Hiddemann et al: Rituximab maintenance following a rituximab containing chemotherapy significantly prolongs the duration of response in 
patients with relapsed follicular and mantle cell lymphomas: Results of a prospective randomized trial of the German Low Grade Lymphoma 
Study Group (GLSG)  ASCO 2005; abstract 6527 
2 Hainsworth JD et al: Maximizing therapeutic benefit of rituximab: maintenance therapy with indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma- a 
randomized phase II trial of the Minnie Pearl Cancer Research Network. J Clin Oncol ; 2005; 23 (6): 1088-95 
3 Hainsworth JD et al: rituximab as first line and maintenance therapy for patients with indolent non Hodgkin’s lymphoma J Clin Oncol 
2002; 20 (20): 4261-67 
4 Hochster et al: Results of E1496: A phase III trial of CVP with or without maintenance rituximab in advanced indolent lymphoma (NHL). 
Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2004; 23:: 556, abstract 6502 
5 Ghielmini M et al: Prolonged treatment with rituximab in patients with follicular lymphoma significantly increases event-free survival and 
response duration compared with the standard weekly x 4 schedule. Blood 2004; 103 (12): 4416-23 
3 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                                                      
The  tables  above  highlights  the  heterogeneity of  submitted  studies,  in  particular  in  terms  of  patients 
included  (with  relapsed  disease  or  previously  untreated)  and  dosing  schedule  of  rituximab  and 
duration of treatment.   The pivotal study EORTC 20981 used a 3-monthly regimen of rituximab 375 
mg/m2 until disease progression (or maximum of two years). Other supportive studies used different 
intervals of rituximab treatment.  
Pivotal study EORTC 20981 
Primary objective  
•  To  compare  progression-free  survival  (PFS)  (defined  as  the  interval  between  the  date  of 
randomization  to  observation/maintenance  and  the  date  of  first  relapse,  progression  or  death, 
which ever occurred first) in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma treated with 
or  without  rituximab  maintenance  after  achieving  a  complete  or  partial  remission  following 
induction therapy with either CHOP or R-CHOP.  
Secondary objective: 
•  The only protocol-specified secondary endpoint was overall survival.   
•  Exploratory endpoints, not specified in the study protocol but in the statistical analysis plan, were 
disease-free survival and time to new lymphoma treatment or death. 
Progression  free  survival  is  an  adequate  efficacy  endpoint  in  indolent  Non  Hodgkin’s  lymphoma. 
However,  progressive  disease  in  follicular  lymphoma  may  not  always  be  accompanied  by  clinical 
symptoms.  
Efficacy Results 
Primary outcome: 
A  significant  benefit  of  rituximab  maintenance  treatment  over  observation  was  seen  for  the  primary 
efficacy parameter, PFS, with the two curves beginning to separate after about 3 months (see Figure 
below).  The Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time to progression was 14.3 months in the observation 
arm  compared  to  42.2 months  in  the  rituximab  maintenance  arm  (p  <  0.0001;  stratified  [induction 
treatment and response] log-rank test).  A higher proportion of patients in the observation arm (62%) 
compared  to  the  rituximab  arm  (37%)  had  progressed  at  the  time  of  the  analysis.    Few  patients  (3 
observation  vs.  5  maintenance)  died  prior  to  disease  progression.    Maintenance  treatment  with 
rituximab  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  disease  progression  by  61%  (95%CI:  45%  to  72%) 
compared with observation.   
Kaplan-Meier Plot of Progression-Free Survival (Study EORTC 20981) 
Randomization in the maintenance phase was stratified by the type of induction regimen and quality of 
response  to  induction  treatment.    The  benefits  of  maintenance  treatment  with  rituximab  over 
observation were seen regardless of the type of induction regimen (CHOP vs. R-CHOP) or the quality 
of response to induction therapy (CR vs. PR). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rituximab maintenance significantly prolonged the median PFS for both patients responding to CHOP 
induction (11.6 months observation vs. 37.5 months rituximab, p<0.0001) and for patients responding 
to  R-CHOP  induction  (22.1  months  observation  vs.  51.9  months  rituximab,  p=0.0071).  The  risk 
reduction  for  disease  progression  was  more  pronounced  in  patients  who  had  received  CHOP  (71%, 
95%CI 54% to 82%) compared to R-CHOP (46%, 95%CI 15% to 65%), probably due to the higher 
efficacy of R-CHOP as the induction regimen.   
Rituximab maintenance treatment also significantly prolonged the median PFS for patients with a CR 
(14.3 months observation vs. 52.8 months rituximab, p=0.0008) as well as for those with a PR (14.3 
months  observation  vs.  37.8  months  rituximab,  p<0.0001).    Amongst  patients  who  achieved  a  CR 
following  induction  treatment,  the  risk  reduction  with  rituximab  maintenance  treatment  was  64% 
(95%  CI:  33%  to  81%)  compared  to  54%  (95%  CI:  33%  to  69%)  for  those  achieving  a  PR.    This 
therefore  emphasizes  the  need  for  an  effective  induction  regimen  to  optimize  the  outcome  with 
maintenance rituximab treatment.  
Progression-free Survival in Subgroups in the Maintenance Phase (Study EORTC 20981) 
Subgroup 
Median Time to Progression (months) 
Observation 
Rituximab 
Overall population 
14.3 
CHOP 
R-CHOP 
CR 
PR 
11.6 
22.1 
14.3 
14.3 
42.2 
37.5 
51.9 
52.8 
37.8 
p value 
(Log-Rank test) 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
0.0071 
0.0008 
<0.0001 
Risk Reduction  
(95% Confidence Interval) 
61% (45% to 72%) 
71% (54% to 82%) 
46% (15% to 65%) 
64% (33% to 81%) 
54% (33% to 69%) 
PFS was analyzed in subgroups defined by baseline  prognostic factors.  The benefit of maintenance 
treatment with rituximab over observation was seen in all subgroups except for the small subgroup of 
patients  with  bulky  disease  which  was  too  small  (19  observation,  18  rituximab)  to  allow  for 
meaningful conclusions to be drawn.   
Progression-free Survival in Subgroups (Study EORTC 20981) 
Secondary outcome: 
The results from study EORTC 20981 showed a beneficial effect of rituximab maintenance treatment 
on overall survival compared with observation (p = 0.0039, log-rank test). Although the median has 
not  been  reached  in  either  study  arm  due  to  the  small  number  of  deaths  (36  observation  vs.  18 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rituximab), rituximab maintenance treatment significantly reduced the risk of death by 56% (95% CI: 
22% to 75%).   
Kaplan-Meier Plot of Overall Survival (Study EORTC 20981) 
The  treatment  effect  with  rituximab  maintenance  on  overall  survival  in  the  CHOP  vs.  R-CHOP 
subgroups was significant and consistent with that seen in the overall population 
Due  to  the  small  number  of  deaths  at  the  time  of  data-cut-off,  longer  follow-up  is  required  before 
definitive conclusions can be drawn. 
Overall Survival in Subgroups in the Maintenance Phase (Study EORTC 20981) 
Population 
Risk Reduction (95% 
confidence Interval) 
Overall population  56% (22% to 75%)  
CHOP 
R-CHOP 
55% (4% to 79%) 
56% (-2% to 81%)  
p-value  
Log-rank test 
0.0039 
0.0348 
0.0482 
Improvements  in  the  quality  of  response  were  observed  in  a  small  number  of  patients  that  were 
randomized to the maintenance phase.  In the observation arm, 6 of 116 patients with a PR and one 
patient with no-change/stable disease at the start of the maintenance phase improved to a CR.  In the 
rituximab  arm,  13  of  114  patients  with  a  PR  at  the  start  of  maintenance  improved  to  a  CR  and  one 
patient with no-change/stable disease improved to a PR. 
Supportive studies 
Study GLSG-FCM  
This  study  investigated  the  impact  of  rituximab  maintenance  treatment  on  response  duration  after 
remission induction with either R-FCM or FCM chemotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory 
follicular lymphoma (FL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Patients were first randomized to either 
4  courses  of  chemotherapy  with  fludarabine  (25  mg/m2/day  on  days  1-3),  cyclophosphamide  (200 
mg/m2/day on days 1-3) and mitoxantrone (8 mg/m2 on day 1) (FCM), or FCM plus rituximab (375 
mg/m2  on  day  0).  Patients  achieving  a  complete  or  partial  remission  underwent  a  second 
randomization to either observation only or rituximab maintenance with 4 weekly doses of rituximab 
(375  mg/m2/day)  three  and  nine  months  after  the  end  of  R-FCM/FCM  induction  therapy.  Both 
randomizations  were  stratified  by  histology  and  preceeding  therapy.  The  first  randomization  was 
stopped after 147 patients, when interim results demonstrated a significant improvement for R-FCM 
therapy  for  initial  responses,  progression  free  survival  and  overall  survival.  The  study  protocol  was 
subsequently amended so that all patients would receive R-FCM induction treatment before the second 
randomization to rituximab maintenance therapy or observation only.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  GLSG-FCM  did  include  patients  with  mantle  cell  lymphomas  (MCL)  belonging  to  a 
different  kind  of  subclass  of  NHL  with  a  more  dismal  prognosis.  Although  innovative  treatments 
(including  rituximab)  are  acceptable  for  patients  with  MCL,  the  inclusion  of  patients  with  follicular 
lymphoma and MCL rendered the patient population more heterogeneous. Improvement was seen in 
both subtypes but was not yet statistically significant. 
Study SAKK 35/98 
The objective of the multi-centre phase III trial SAKK35/98 was to compare the standard schedule of 
rituximab  with  a  prolonged  schedule  in  patients  with  previously  untreated  or  relapsed/refractory 
follicular  lymphoma.  All  patients  received  induction  treatment  with  a  standard  course  of  4-weekly 
rituximab infusions. Patients with stable disease or who were in partial or complete remission at week 
12  were  randomized  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  no  further  treatment  or  to  treatment  with  rituximab  for  a 
prolonged period of time. Prolonged administration of rituximab improved the primary endpoint EFS 
when  compared  to  observation  alone.  The  difference  in  best  response  was  not  significant  with  77% 
responders  (31%  CR)  in  the  observation  arm  and  75%  responders  (38%  CR)  in  the  prolonged 
rituximab treatment arm. Responses were more durable in the prolonged rituximab treatment arm with 
an  overall  response  rate  after  1  year  of  44%  for  patients  on  observation  versus  60%  for  patients  on 
prolonged rituximab treatment, respectively. The proportion of patients still responding at 2 years was 
28% in the observation arm versus 45% in the prolonged rituximab arm. However, this study was too 
small to show any survival difference.  
Study LYM-5  
This  prospective,  multi-center,  community  based,  randomized  study  was  aiming  to  compare  the 
duration  of  rituximab  benefit  from  maintenance  treatment  versus  re-treatment  at  relapse  in  patients 
with relapsed indolent NHL. Patients who had received previous chemotherapy received one standard 
course  of  rituximab  as  induction  treatment.  Patients  achieving  a  CR,  PR  or  SD  were  randomly 
assigned  to  receive  either  rituximab  maintenance  therapy  (375  mg/m2)  with  four  weekly  infusions 
given  every  6  months  for  a  maximum  period  of  18  months  or  rituximab  re-treatment  at  the  time  of 
lymphoma  progression  (maximum  of  4  rituximab  courses  including  induction  (375  mg/m2  weekly, 
x4). Out of these, 90 patients (79%) had an objective response or stable disease and were randomized 
to  either  maintenance  rituximab  (44  patients)  or  re-treatment  (46  patients)  with  a  standard  4-week 
rituximab course only at the time of lymphoma progression. The primary endpoint of the trial was the 
duration of rituximab benefit, defined as the period from the date of first treatment until the date that 
patients developed progressive lymphoma and required other treatment than rituximab. Patients were 
considered to benefit from rituximab treatment if they had ongoing or continuing responses of CR, PR 
or SD ≥ 6 months (for patients randomized to maintenance or re-treatment, respectively). Secondary 
endpoints included PFS, objective and complete response rate and overall survival. 
Median duration of rituximab benefit between the maintenance arm and the re-treatment arm was 31.3 
months  vs.  27.4  months.  However,  progression-free  survival  was  significantly  prolonged  in  the 
maintenance  group  with  a  median  of  31.3  months  vs.  7.4  months  in  the  re-treatment  group.  In  the 
maintenance group, initial ORR (39%) and CR (9%) rates increased to a best ORR of 52%, and a CR 
rate of 27%. In contrast, in patients retreated at progression minimal changes in overall response rates 
were observed and only 4% of patients achieved a CR at any time. More patients in the maintenance 
group had a continuous remission (20 vs. 11) and more patients were in ongoing complete remission 
(10 vs. 1) at the time of data cut-off. Overall survival was comparable between the arms. 
The design of this study is interesting as it compares maintenance treatment with rituximab in patients 
having  a  CR,  PR  and  also  a  SD  with  re-treatment  with  rituximab  following  relapse.  Therefore  the 
benefit/risk of maintenance treatment can hardly be assessed. The study results are therefore of very 
limited  value  for  the  current  application.  The  targeted  patient  number  (n=100)  was  not  reached. 
Therefore  the  study  was  underpowered  for  the  primary  endpoint.  Second,  there  were  imbalances 
between  study  arms  for  histology.  All  patients  with  SLL  are  expected  to  have  less  benefit  form 
rituximab  based  on  prior  experience.  Furthermore,  the  number  of  patients  progressing  before  either 
maintenance or re-treatment was not balanced. In addition, the duration of rituximab benefit could not 
be  properly  assessed  because  rituximab  re-treatment  was  not  allowed  for  patient  progressing  after 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
successful completion of maintenance therapy but was allowed for patients in the re-treatment arm as 
long as they responded/did not progress after re-treatment. 
Studies in previously untreated patients 
Study U0824 
Study U0824n was the first proof of concept for the efficacy and tolerability of rituximab maintenance 
treatment.  The  objective  of  this  investigator-sponsored  study  was  to  assess  response  rates  to  single-
agent rituximab in previously untreated patients with indolent NHL, and to evaluate in patients with 
objective  response  or  stable  disease  after  rituximab  induction  therapy,  the  feasibility,  toxicity  and 
efficacy of rituximab maintenance treatment with 4 weekly infusions of rituximab administered at 6-
months intervals for up to 18 months. 60 patients (97%) completed the first 4- week cycle of rituximab 
and  patients  were  re-staged  for  response.  Those  with  an  objective  response  or  stable  disease  (n=46) 
continued in the study and received at least one course of rituximab maintenance treatment (4 x 375 
mg/m2 weekly) every 6 months for a maximum of 18 months. 36 (58%) received the maximum of 4 
courses in the trial. The objective response rate at 6 weeks after induction treatment was 47% with 7% 
complete  response  and  45%  with  stable  disease.  With  continued  maintenance  treatment,  the  final 
response rate increased to 73%, with 37% complete response.  In a recently published update with a 
median  follow-up  of  55  months,  a  median  PFS  of  37  months  in  the  overall  group  was  estimated. 
Importantly,  the  outcome  in  patients  with  follicular  histology  was  significantly  superior  to  that  of 
patients  with  SLL.  However,  study  U0824  was  an  early  non-randomized  study.  Interpretation  of 
results without inclusion of a control group is inherently difficult.  
Study ECOG 1496:  
This  multicenter,  randomized,  phase  III  study  conducted  by  ECOG  included  previously  untreated 
patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  lymphoma  (grade  1  and  2)  and  small  lymphocytic  lymphoma. 
Patients  were  randomized  to  induction  treatment  with  CVP  or  CF,  stratified  by  age,  histology,  B 
symptoms and tumour burden. The CF arm was discontinued in September 2001 because of excessive 
toxicity,  and  the  protocol  was  amended  so  that  all  subsequent  patients  received  CVP  induction 
treatment.  Of  a  total  of  516  recruited  patients,  401  patients  were  treated  with  CVP  to  maximum 
response.  322  (80%)  with  a  response  or  stable  disease  following  CVP  treatment  was  randomized  to 
rituximab maintenance treatment (375 mg/m2 weekly x 4) every 6 months for 4 cycles or no further 
treatment. Maintenance randomization was stratified by clinical residual disease and histology. Of 322 
patients  randomized  to  the  maintenance  phase,  a  total  of  305  patients  (157  rituximab  and  148 
observation) were assessable for efficacy. 
Patients  randomized  to  rituximab  maintenance  and  observation  were  well  balanced  for  age,  residual 
disease,  histology  and  tumour  burden  as  well  as  gender,  stage,  bone  marrow  involvement  and 
international  prognostic  index.  Patients  were  also  well  balanced  with  regard  to  their  response  to 
induction treatment. The study was terminated early as the O’Brian-Fleming boundary for the primary 
endpoint of PFS was crossed in favour of the maintenance arm. 37 patients (24%) in the rituximab arm 
and  65  patients  (44%)  on  observation  had  progressed  or  died.  Rituximab  maintenance  therapy 
significantly prolonged median PFS in the overall population by 2.7 years (median PFS of 4.2 years 
for  patients  in  the  rituximab  arm  versus  1.5  years  for  patients  under  observation,  p=0.00003). 
Importantly,  a  significant  prolongation  of  PFS  was  confirmed  in  subgroup  analyses  according  to 
tumour  burden,  residual  disease  after  induction  treatment,  histology  and  disease  risk  at  baseline. 
Maintenance therapy with rituximab also improved the overall response rate after induction; 14% of 
patients  had  a  complete  response  after  CVP,  which  increased  to  30%  after  maintenance  therapy.  In 
comparison, the increase in complete response rate for the observation arm increased from 16% after 
CVP to 22% after maintenance therapy. In the overall group, the risk of death was reduced by 40%, 
however  this  difference  was  only  of  borderline  statistical  significance.  These  differences  in  overall 
survival  showed  a  strong  trend  in  favour  of  maintenance  therapy,  but  longer  follow-up  is  needed  to 
confirm these observations. 
ECOG  1496  was  conducted  in  newly  diagnosed  patients,  therefore  in  another  patient  category 
compared  with  pivotal  study  EORTC  20981.  Nevertheless,  the  data  indicate  a  highly  statistically 
significant prolongation of PFS in the rituximab maintenance arm following CVP induction therapy. It 
8 
 
 
 
 
is  also  noted  that  this  study  does  not  include  rituximab  in  the  induction  treatment  which  is  now 
standard in combination with chemotherapy in previously untreated patients with follicular lymphoma. 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
Rituximab maintenance significantly prolonged the median PFS for both patients responding to CHOP 
induction (11.6 months observation vs. 37.5 months rituximab, p<0.0001) and for patients responding 
to  R-CHOP  induction  (22.1  months  observation  vs.  51.9  months  rituximab,  p=0.0071).  The  risk 
reduction  for  disease  progression  was  more  pronounced  in  patients  who  had  received  CHOP  (71%, 
95%CI 54% to 82%) compared to R-CHOP (46%, 95%CI 15% to 65%), probably due to the higher 
efficacy of R-CHOP as the induction regimen.   
Rituximab maintenance treatment also significantly prolonged the median PFS for patients with a CR 
(14.3 months observation vs. 52.8 months rituximab, p=0.0008) as well as for those with a PR (14.3 
months  observation  vs.  37.8  months  rituximab,  p<0.0001).    Amongst  patients  who  achieved  a  CR 
following  induction  treatment,  the  risk  reduction  with  rituximab  maintenance  treatment  was  64% 
(95%  CI:  33%  to  81%)  compared  to  54%  (95%  CI:  33%  to  69%)  for  those  achieving  a  PR.    This 
therefore  emphasizes  the  need  for  an  effective  induction  regimen  to  optimize  the  outcome  with 
maintenance rituximab treatment.  
The  open  label  nature  of  the  pivotal  EORTC  20981  trial  with  lack  of  a  placebo  control  raised  the 
possibility of bias in terms of assessment of progressive disease, e.g. similar scheduling of CT scans to 
assess progression in both treatment arms. The study protocol lacked detailed description of scheduled 
assessment of progression. In study EORTC 20981 no specific requirement regarding schedules CT-
scan  assessment  were  prescribed  in  the  protocol  beyond  the  end  of  the  induction  phase  (apparently 
tumour assessments were performed according to clinical practice which included 3 to 6-monthly CT 
scans  in  some,  but  not  all  participating  sites).  Although  in  accordance  with  published  guidelines 
(Cheson et al) on follow up of NHL in clinical trials, accurate data on how often tumour progression 
was  collected  on  the  basis  of  clinical  judgement  or  with  imaging  techniques  (CT  or  MRI)  is  thus 
lacking. Although such potential lack of uniformity of tumour assessment may have created a potential 
bias  as  on  the  methodology  (imaging  or  clinical  assessment  of  tumour  assessment  during  the 
maintenance  phase was not collected on the CRF), it is however unlikely that this may have caused 
major  bias,  as  during  the  maintenance  phase,  the  same  schedule  of  tumour  assessments  has  been 
equally followed in both the observation and the maintenance arms of study EORTC 20981.  
Moreover,  the  demonstrated  benefit  in  terms  of  overall  survival  in  the  pivotal  EORTC  20981  trial 
(p=0.0039,  log  rank  test),  which  represents  a  significant  risk  reduction  for  death  by  56%  (HR  0.44; 
95% CI, 0.25-0.78) in favour of the rituximab maintenance arm further confirms that the evaluation of 
the primary endpoint, progression-free survival in study EORTC 20981 was unbiased. MAH has thus 
adequately  addressed  this  issue  in  the  answer  to  question  1  in  the  request  for  supplementary 
information. 
Although  the  maintenance  schedules  used  in  the  submitted  studies  were  heterogeneous  available 
pharmacodynamic data suggest that significant B cell depletion can be achieved with either schedule 
of rituximab maintenance treatment: 2-3 monthly single infusions or 4 weekly infusions administered 
every 6 months. B cell recovery after administration of a single rituximab infusion every 2-3 months 
seems to occur earlier than after the administration of 4-weekly infusions every 6 months. However a 
final conclusion regarding the degree of B cell depletion with the different rituximab schedules cannot 
be drawn. More importantly, available data do not provide information on the level of B-cell depletion 
needed  for  clinical  benefit.  Regardless  of  dosing  schedule  chosen  by  different  collaborative  study 
groups, all trials demonstrated a significant benefit with rituximab maintenance treatment compared to 
observation. 
The value of data on symptomatic progression to provide additional support for the clinical benefit of 
rituximab  maintenance  treatment  is  recognised.  However,  currently  there  is  no  validated  symptom 
related  parameter  specific  to  follicular  lymphoma  for  use  in  clinical  trials.  Taking  into  account  the 
accepted clinical practice that only symptomatic follicular lymphoma patients should be treated with 
therapeutic  agents,  time  to  new  lymphoma  treatment  or  death  (TNLT)  represents  an  alternative 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
parameter  to  assess  the  clinical  benefit  of  a  specific  therapeutic  regimen.  We  agree  that  a  delay  in 
disease progression of 28 months, time to new lymphoma treatment by 19 months and a risk reduction 
for death by 56% with rituximab maintenance when compared to observation is likely to represent a 
clinically significant symptomatic benefit. 
For  patients  with  relapsed/refractory  follicular  lymphoma  not  previously  treated  with  rituximab  and 
responding to induction therapy with CHOP or R-CHOP, maintenance treatment with rituximab offers 
a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  meaningful  improvement  in  progression-free  and  overall 
survival. The benefit is greater for patients who are not treated with rituximab in the induction phase, 
but  the  benefit  is  significant  and  meaningful  also  for  patients  who  are  treated  with  rituximab  in  the 
induction phase. For patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma not previously treated with 
rituximab the claimed indication has thus been shown to be valid. However, in the future most patients 
with  follicular  lymphoma  will  be  treated  with  rituximab  as  primary  treatment  hence  the  number  of 
patients  fulfilling  the  criteria  at  relapse  will  decrease  dramatically.  It  is  true  that  the  majority  of 
follicular  lymphomas  maintain  continued  sensitivity  to  repeated  courses  of  treatment  even  with  the 
same  agent(s)  after  the  first  2-3  relapses.  The  evidence  quoted  by  the  applicant  (study  8426)  is  a 
retrospective  study  of  patients  treated  with  induction  chemotherapy  only.  There  are  in  vitro  data 
(studies  8229  and  8145)  showing  that  MabThera  re-sensitises  resistant  lymphoma  cell  lines  to 
cytotoxic agents. 
The  extrapolation  of  the  available  data  to  patients  who  received  MabThera  up  front  as  part  of  the 
primary treatment was extensively discussed. The only study referred to which deals with MabThera 
maintenance is the GLSG-FCM Study, where nine patients were treated with a MabThera containing 
induction  regimen  initially  and  at  relapse,  followed  by  MabThera  maintenance.  This  number  of 
patients is clearly too small for any conclusions to be drawn. Although results seem promising, proper 
randomized  evidence  should  be  produced,  in  order  to  be  able  to  assess  the  impact  on  overall  and 
progression free survival.  
The large amount of scientific data being available on the nature of the disease and the efficacy of 
MabThera in NHL, especially in re-treatment, form the basis of the medical practice for treating 
NHL in Europe:  
According  to  various  treatment  guidelines,  repeated  usage  of  the  same  regimen  at  the  time  of 
relapse is recommended, if initial response to that regimen was longlasting (>= 6 or 12 months) 
(National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), Cancer Care Ontario (CCO), Seyfarth et al, 
BJH 2006; Maloney et al, Curr Hematol Rep 2005). 
For MabThera, a number of trials published over the last years have demonstrated efficacy of re-
treatment  in  various  clinical  settings.  Therefore,  MabThera  re-treatment  has  also  been 
incorporated into several treatment guidelines and has been widely adopted into clinical practice 
for  the  management  of  patients  with  relapsed  follicular  NHL  responding  to  a  prior  course  of 
MabThera. Available data from  the  GLSG study as well as individual case reports published in 
the literature (e.g. Cohen et al, The Hematol Journal, 2003) suggest a benefit from maintenance 
therapy  following  MabThera  plus  chemotherapy  induction  treatment  also  in  patients  who  have 
relapsed  after  a  prior  MabThera-containing  first-line  treatment.  Based  on  these  data  and  the 
efficacy  of  MabThera  re-treatment,  there  is  a  lack  of  scientific  interest  in  the  lymphoma 
community  (see  below)  to  address  the  question  of  MabThera  maintenance  benefit  in  patients 
failing  after  MabThera-containing  first-line  treatment.  Therefore,  no  randomized  study  is 
currently ongoing or planned in this setting and no data from a randomized study will be available 
in  the  future.  Given  the  high  medical  need  for  better  treatment  options  in  relapsed/refractory 
disease, the medical community represented by an international panel of lymphoma experts from 
key  lymphoma  study  groups  (International  Advisory  Board Meeting,  May  2006)  considered  the 
usage  of  MabThera  maintenance  treatment  appropriate  in  patients  relapsing  after  MabThera-
containing first line therapy. It was assumed that a MabThera-containing first-line regimen given 
in median 3-4 years before disease progression would not impact on the efficacy of maintenance 
therapy at relapse, especially if the patient responds to re-induction therapy with MabThera and 
10 
 
 
 
chemotherapy.  It  was  recognized  that  the  clinical  evidence  for  maintenance  treatment  in  the 
setting of MabThera pre-treated patients is very limited and the exact magnitude of the treatment 
effect  of  maintenance  is  not  known.  However,  it  was  considered  that  the  large  efficacy  benefit 
with MabThera maintenance therapy resulting in improved overall survival in relapsed follicular 
lymphoma  with  a  favorable  safety  profile  demonstrated  in  various  clinical  settings  strongly 
supports  maintenance  usage  in  the  entire  group  of  relapsed  patients,  including  MabThera 
pretreated patients.  
According  to  lymphoma  treating  physicians  (market  research  on  the  usage  of  MabThera 
maintenance therapy in follicular lymphoma conducted by the MAH in 2005), the main reasons to 
exclude  patients  failing  after  prior  MabThera-containing  therapy  from  maintenance  treatment 
would  be  toxicity,  known  allergy,  and  inappropriate  histology.  The  only  reason  for  not 
considering  MabThera  maintenance  treatment  for  management  of  relapsed  disease  relating  to 
prior  therapy  would  be  if  the  patient  had  relapsed  while  or  within  6  months  following  prior 
MabThera-containing therapy. 
An extrapolation of the effect of MabThera maintenance to patients receiving primary treatment with 
MabThera plus chemotherapy is not valid. It is argued that because MabThera maintenance improves 
outcome  after  primary  induction  therapy  with  either  MabThera  monotherapy  or  with  chemotherapy 
without MabThera, and because MabThera maintenance improves outcome in patients responding to 
relapse  treatment  with  chemotherapy  with  or  without  MabThera,  then  MabThera  maintenance  must 
also improve outcome after primary treatment with today’s standard treatment, i.e. a combination of 
chemotherapy  and  MabThera.  It  is  very  likely  that  MabThera  maintenance  in  this  setting  will  offer 
some  improvement.  It  is  true  that  the  population  of  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma  is 
heterogeneous, and that testing a specific regimen in every thinkable scenario is impossible. However, 
it would seem a reasonable request to demand evidence of the magnitude and clinical importance of 
the benefit of maintenance MabThera in the scenario which is now the standard primary treatment of 
these patients (some form of chemotherapy combined with MabThera), a treatment which has yielded 
a significant benefit compared with previous treatments. The MAH refers to analyses of subgroups of 
patients in the pivotal trial (EORTC 20981) who had had limited prior therapy and who got MabThera 
containing  induction  treatment  for  relapse  followed  by  +/-  MabThera  maintenance.  These  analyses 
point in the direction of a benefit of MabThera maintenance in this situation. 
Study  MO18264  (PRIMA  Study  –  Primary  Rituximab  and  Maintenance)  is  an  open-label, 
international, randomized, multi-center phase III study which has been enrolling patients since end of 
December 2004. The study is evaluating the efficacy of rituximab maintenance treatment in previously 
untreated patients with follicular lymphoma responding to an induction treatment with rituximab and 
chemotherapy.  This  trial  was  initiated  and  is  sponsored  (in  Europe)  by  the  Groupe  d’Etudes  des 
Lymphomes d’Adultes (GELA). Six hundred and forty patients will be included in the trial and 480 
patients  are  expected  to  be  randomized  to  rituximab  maintenance  versus  observation.  There  are  two 
planned  interim  efficacy  analyses  (after  50%  and  75%  of  events).  Final  results  are  expected  to  be 
available  in  3-4  years.  The  safety  data  emerging  from  this  study  is  periodically  reviewed  by  an 
independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). After the first review meeting (January 26, 
2006), the DSMB recommended to continue the trial unchanged. Upon request, regular updates on the 
outcomes  from  DSMB  meetings,  i.e.  meeting  minutes  from  the  open  part  of  the  session  would  be 
available  for  submission  to  the  regulatory  authorities  in  the  future  as  well  as  a  clinical  study  report 
once available after the final analysis. The results of the PRIMA trial is expected to provide additional 
evidence.  
2. 3.  Clinical safety  
The main data source for safety information for rituximab as maintenance treatment in patients with 
follicular NHL comes from the pivotal study, EORTC 20981 (Roche study M39022).  Safety data is 
available from this study on 332 patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma who responded 
to  induction  treatment  with  CHOP  or  R-CHOP  and  who  received  up  to  8  cycles  of  rituximab 
maintenance  treatment  or  observation  for  a  maximum  period  of  2  years.  At  the  time  of  the  final 
11 
 
 
 
analysis,  119  patients  in  the  safety  population  (40  observation,  79  rituximab)  had  completed  the 
scheduled maintenance periods. More patients in the rituximab arm (47%) completed the scheduled 8 
treatment  periods  (i.e.  2 years)  compared  with  the  observation  arm  (24%).  The  main  reason  for  this 
was that more patients in the observation arm had progressed. However, an updated analysis should be 
submitted with focus on infections. 
Limited  safety  information  is  available  in  the  literature  from  the  five  other  completed  studies  of 
rituximab in the maintenance setting mentioned previously. Overall, the safety results reported in these 
studies are consistent with the known safety profile of rituximab and no new or unexpected toxicities 
were  seen  during  the  use  of  rituximab  in  the  maintenance  setting.    Overall,  more  than  400  patients 
were randomized to receive maintenance rituximab, although the dosing schedules were different from 
that  used  in  study  EORTC  20981.  Safety  information  (including  serious  adverse  events)  from  the 
global rituximab safety database is also available.  
The  overall  safety  profile  of  rituximab  in  the  maintenance  setting  was  consistent  with  its  expected 
safety profile.  All grades  AEs, related  AEs, grades  3 and 4 AEs  and SAEs  were reported at higher 
incidence  in  the  rituximab  arm  (see  Table  below).    The  overall  incidence  of  serious  IRRs  in  the 
rituximab  arm  was  low  (<1%)  and  few  patients  discontinued  treatment  for  safety  reasons.    Seven 
patients  died  during  the  active  part  of  the  maintenance  phase,  with  the  most  common  cause  being 
disease  progression. 
toxicity  while  on  active 
treatment/observation.   
Importantly,  no  patient  died  due 
to 
Overview of the Safety - Maintenance Phase Study EORTC 20981 
All NCIC CTC AEs 
Related NCIC CTC AEs 
Grade 3/4 NCIC CTC AEs 
Serious AEs 
Serious IRR 
Toxicity related Withdrawals  
Deaths (not treatment related) 
Observation 
N=166 
130 (78%) 
91 (55%) 
38 (23%) 
1 (<1%) 
- 
- 
3 (2%) 
Rituximab  
N=166 
149 (90%) 
128 (77%) 
61 (37%) 
22 (13%) 
1 (<1%) 
6 (4%) 
4 (2%) 
Flu-like  symptoms  (mainly  lethargy,  myalgia,  arthralgia  and  fever)  were  reported  more  often  in  the 
rituximab arm. Furthermore, neurologic, infections (related to leucopenia and neutropenia, pulmonary 
events (cough and shortness of breath) other and allergies were more often reported in the rituximab 
arm. There was a higher incidence in grade 3 or 4 toxicities for blood/bone marrow and for infection.  
The proportion of patients that experienced at least one infection was 22% in the observation arm and 
43% in the rituximab arm. At the time of the final analysis, 119 patients in the safety population (40 
observation,  79  rituximab)  had  completed  the  scheduled  maintenance  periods.  More  patients  in  the 
rituximab  arm  (47%)  completed  the  scheduled  8  treatment  periods  (i.e.  2  years)  compared  with  the 
observation arm (24%).  
In both study arms, the proportion of patients reporting AEs was highest in the first period and tended 
to  decrease  (notably  from  around  period  3)  over  time  although  the  magnitude  of  the  decrease  was 
smaller in the rituximab arm.  For instance, the proportion of patients reporting AEs in period 1 was 
62%  observation  vs.  72%  rituximab  compared  with  37%  observation  and  50%  rituximab  in  the  last 
treatment period (period 8).  The higher incidence of AEs in the early periods in both arms probably 
reflects  toxicity  associated  with  the  induction  treatment.    Importantly,  there  was  no  evidence  of 
cumulative toxicity over time in the rituximab arm. 
Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events 
More patients on rituximab (37%) compared with observation (23%) experienced at least one grade 3 
or 4 AE. This difference is mainly accounted for by a higher incidence in grade 3 or 4 toxicities for 
blood/bone marrow and for infection. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of grade 3 or 4 gastrointestinal AEs were slightly higher with rituximab whereas grade 
3 or 4 flu-like symptoms were unexpectedly more common in the observation arm.  This might be a 
reflection  of  poorer  control  of  the  underlying  disease  in  patients  in  the  observation  arm,  or  it  might 
simply be a result of small numbers and chance.  There were no other relevant differences between the 
treatment groups with respect to the incidence and type of other grade 3 or 4 AEs. 
Deaths 
At  the  time  of  the  cut-off  for  the  final  analysis  (December  31,  2004),  a  total  of  seven  patients 
randomized  to  the  maintenance  phase  of  the  study  (3  observation,  4  rituximab)  had  died  during 
‘active’  observation  or  maintenance.  The  causes  of  death  were  lymphoma  related  for  3  patients  (2 
observation,  1  rituximab),  infections  for  3  patients  (1  observation,  2  rituximab)  and  cardiovascular 
disease for one patient on rituximab.  Importantly, no deaths were considered as treatment-related.   
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  rituximab  in  the  maintenance  setting  was  consistent  with  its  expected 
safety profile.  All grades  AEs, related  AEs, grades  3 and 4 AEs  and SAEs  were reported at higher 
incidence  in  the  rituximab  arm  (see  Table  below).    The  overall  incidence  of  serious  IRRs  in  the 
rituximab  arm  was  low  (<1%)  and  few  patients  discontinued  treatment  for  safety  reasons.    Seven 
patients  died  during  the  active  part  of  the  maintenance  phase,  with  the  most  common  cause  being 
disease progression. Importantly, no patient died due to toxicity while on active treatment/observation.   
An updated safety analysis (data cut off of March 13, 2006) indicates that overall the safety profile of 
rituximab  confirmed  the  safety  profile  as  described  in  the  CSR  with  no  new  of  unexpected  adverse 
events  reported.  No  new death  was  reported  during  the  active  ‘observation  or  maintenance  phase  of 
the  study.  One  additional  patient  withdrew  form  rituximab  maintenance  therapy  due  to  toxicity.  No 
change  was  observed  in  terms  of  frequency,  type  or  severity  of  infections  during  the  rituximab 
maintenance.  The  next  updated  safety  analysis  of  study  EORTC  20981  is  planned  when  all  patients 
randomized  to  the  maintenance  phase  have  completed  the  maintenance/observation  phase  (expected 
first  half  2007).  These  updated  safety  data  with  emphasis  on  infections  and  secondary  tumours  are 
requested to address longer term safety as a result from B-lymphocyte depletion.  
3. 
BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
Follicular lymphoma usually presents with widespread disease at the time of diagnosis.  Although the 
disease generally follows an indolent course, with a median survival of 8-10 years from diagnosis, it is 
considered to be incurable with currently available treatments. Initial response rates to chemotherapy 
are  typically  high,  but  are  followed  inevitably  by  relapse.  Subsequent  treatments  after  relapse  still 
achieve remissions, but at progressively lower rates and of shorter durations.   
Over the course of the disease, a patient with follicular lymphoma usually receives between 3 and 7 
different treatment regimens of varying intensities. Standard treatment consists of single or multidrug 
chemotherapy, which is today usually combined with anti-CD20 antibodies. The problem is obtaining 
durable remissions. 
The  maintenance  treatment  with  rituximab  of  patients  with  follicular  lymphoma  responding  to 
induction  therapy  significantly  improves  progression-free  and  overall  survival.  The  claim  is  made 
regardless  of  whether  the  patient  has  previously  untreated  disease  or  relapsed/refractory  disease, 
regardless of which induction treatment regimen was employed, and regardless of whether rituximab 
has been given as part of the induction treatment (in previously untreated patients) or as part of earlier 
regimens (in patients with relapsed/refractory disease). 
The primary data for this application is based on results from Study EORTC 20981. This study was 
prospectively  planned,  adequately  controlled,  centrally  randomized  and  multicentre  in  nature.  The 
results achieved with rituximab maintenance were consistently observed for all primary and secondary 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endpoints.  A  significant  improvement  in  the  primary  endpoint,  progression  free  survival  (PFS),  was 
also  shown  for  rituximab  maintenance  therapy  compared  to  observation  (42.2  months  versus 
observation,  14.3  months  (p<0.0001).  This  large  prolongation  in  PFS  translates  into  a  significantly 
reduced  risk  of  death  or  disease  progression  with  maintenance  rituximab:  all-cause  mortality  was 
reduced  by  56%  (95%  CI  22-75%)  when  compared  to  observation  alone.  The  supportive  studies, 
published  studies  have  tested  maintenance  treatment  in  various  clinical  setting  and  with  various 
rituximab regimens. Despite multiple differences with pivotal study EORTC 20981 and heterogeneity 
in  terms  of  patient  population  included,  induction  regimen  prior  to  maintenance  treatment  dosing 
schedule  of  rituximab,  the  studies  quoted  document  a  significant  improvement  in  progression-free 
survival and overall survival from maintenance rituximab in previously untreated patients responding 
to  a  non-rituximab  containing  induction  regimen.  The  studies  quoted  also  document  a  significant 
improvement in progression-free and overall survival in relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma who 
have never been treated with rituximab before and who respond to induction therapy with or without 
rituximab.  
The  positive  effects  discussed  above  should  be  weighed  against  the  increased  incidence  of  adverse 
events in rituximab treated patients. Overall incidence of infections was higher in the rituximab arm 
(43%) compared to the observation arm (22%). In addition infusion related reactions such as allergy 
and  flu-like  symptoms  were  more  common  in  the  rituximab  arms.  Adverse  events  of  grade  3  or  4 
severity  were  reported  for  23%  and  37%  of  patients  in  the  observation  and  rituximab  arms 
respectively.  The  only  grade  3  to  4  events  with  a  higher  incidence  in  the  rituximab  arms  were 
blood/bone  marrow  disorders  (higher  incidence  of  leucopenia  and  neutropenia)  and  infections.  In 
addition there is uncertainty about long term safety, in particular related to prolonged B cell depletion. 
An updated safety analysis (data cut off of March 13, 2006) indicates that overall the safety profile of 
rituximab  confirmed  the  safety  profile  as  described  in  the  CSR  with  no  new  of  unexpected  adverse 
events  reported.  No  new death  was  reported  during  the  active  ‘observation  or  maintenance  phase  of 
the  study.  One  additional  patient  withdrew  form  rituximab  maintenance  therapy  due  to  toxicity.  No 
change  was  observed  in  terms  of  frequency,  type  or  severity  of  infections  during  the  rituximab 
maintenance.  The  next  updated  safety  analysis  of  study  EORTC  20981  is  planned  when  all  patients 
randomized  to  the  maintenance  phase  have  completed  the  maintenance/observation  phase  (expected 
first half 2007). Such updated safety results with emphasis on infections and secondary tumours are 
requested to address longer-term safety as a result from B-lymphocyte depletion. 
A post-authorisation Risk Management Plan is proposed, including an already existing Human Safety 
Database  containing  as  of  August  2005  over  7,000  reports  of  adverse  events  with  rituximab 
monotherapy or combination immunochemotherapy. Potential risks for rituximab maintenance therapy 
have been identified (infusion-related reactions, infections, neutropenia, delayed B cell recovery) and 
action plans are proposed. An increased risk of second malignancies due to rituximab is expected to be 
small.  Considering  the  limited  life  expectancy  of  patients  with  advanced  follicular  lymphoma,  the 
clinical significance of any increased risk of second malignancies is expected to be small. 
Ongoing  trials  (e.g.  the  very  recently  initiated  PRIMA  study  (A  multicentre,  phase  III,  open  label, 
randomized  study  in  patients  with  advanced  follicular  lymphoma  evaluating  the  benefit  of 
maintenance therapy with Rituximab (MabThera) after induction of response with chemotherapy plus 
Rituximab in comparison with no maintenance therapy) should demonstrate the benefit of rituximab 
maintenance in previously untreated patients. 
4. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  1  June  2006  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area1
Clinical 
Clinical 
Description 
EORTC 20981 study: Submission of an updated safety analysis 
of study EORTC 20981 when all patients randomized to the 
maintenance phase have completed the maintenance/observation 
phase 
MO18264 study (PRIMA): submission of final study report 
when available 
Due date2
Q3/2007 
Estimated  
Q4/2009 
Areas: Quality, Non-clinical, Clinical, Pharmacovigilance 
Due date for the follow-up measure or for the first interim report if a precise date cannot be 
committed to. 
1. 
2. 
. 
15 
 
 
 
 
