SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 January 2005. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Mabthera  contains  as  active  substance,  rituximab,  which  is  a  chimeric  mouse/human  monoclonal 
antibody  (mAb),  consisting  of  a  glycosylated  IgG1  kappa  immunoglobulin  with  murine  light-  and 
heavy-chain  variable  regions  (Fab  domain)  and  human  kappa  and  gamma-1  constant  regions  (Fc 
domain).  Rituximab  binds  to  CD20;  a  transmembrane  phosphorylated  protein,  located  on  pre-B  and 
matures  B-lymphocytes  (B-cell  lineage-restricted  pan-B  cell  antigen).  The  antigen  is  found  on  both 
normal  B-cells  and  malignant  B-cells  (except  from  myeloma  cells  and  most  precursor  B  cell  ALL). 
The  CD20  antigen  has  characteristics  that  render  it  a  suitable  target  for  treatment:  CD20  does  not 
circulate freely in the plasma, CD20 does not shed from the surface of B-cells after binding of anti-
CD20  antibodies,  and  CD20  does  not  internalise  upon  antibody  binding.  The  potential  therapeutic 
advantage  of  chimeric  antibodies  as  compared  with  pure  murine  mAbs  is  the  reduction  of 
immunogenicity  thereby  permitting  repeated  administration.  Other  important  features  of  chimeric 
mAbs  are  their  ability  of  binding  human  complement  (C1q),  and  the  mediation  of  human  effector 
functions  such  as  complement  fixation  and  antibody-dependent  cellular  cytotoxicity  resulting  in  a 
potentially more effective destruction of tumour cells. 
MabThera  is  intended  for  use  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  relapsed  or  chemoresistant  follicular 
B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse 
large B-cell NHL in combination with CHOP chemotherapy. 
Non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma  (NHL)  is  the  most  common  of  the  malignant  lymphoid  neoplasms.  The 
incidence  in  western  countries  varies  in  reports  from  6  to  16/100,000  and  in  the  EU  an  estimated 
number of approximately 50,000 new cases are diagnosed each year. NHL is the common name for a 
cluster of related but individual diseases, which have neoplastic transformation of a lymphoid cell as 
the common denominator. Eighty five percent of the NHLs are derived from a B-lymphocyte and 15% 
of the NHLs from a T-lymphocyte. The many classification schemes have built first on histopathology 
and  cytopathology,  then  supplemented  with  immunopathology  and  more  recently  molecular  biology 
and  pathology.  The  use  of  the  new  DNA-chips  should  lead  to  a  further  refinement  in  classification 
within  the  next few years.  The International  Working  Formulation (IWF) and  the Kiel classification 
have  in  recent  years  been  substituted  by  the  REAL  classification  and  later  by  its  slightly  modified 
version, the WHO classification. Translation of diagnoses within the systems is possible for most but 
not  all  classes.  The  WHO  classification  recognizes  13  individual  B-cell  lymphomas  (with  several 
further subdivisions), which form a clinical spectrum from the low-grade lymphocytic and follicular 
lymphomas  with  a  medium  survival  of  10-15  years  at  one  end,  and  the  high  grade  lymphoblastic 
lymphomas with a medium survival of months at the other end of the spectrum. 
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific for lymphoma antigens have been developed in the past, but 
the results to date have been  somewhat disappointing. Anti–idiotype antibodies were impractical for 
broad  clinical  use.  The  use  of  murine  antibodies  targeted  to  tumours  was  limited  by  the  lack  of 
efficacy, the induction of neutralising antibodies HAMA (human anti–murine antibodies) or “allergic–
like”  reactions.  Radiolabeled  mAbs  may  be  more  active  than  their  unlabeled  counterparts  but  the 
toxicities appear to be more severe. Objective response rates of over 60% (in some studies, up to 90%) 
with 44% CR were reported in patients with recurrent indolent B–cell NHLs. Dose limiting toxicities 
have included severe and often serious cardiopulmonary and hepatic toxicities, myelosuppression, due 
to  the  radiosensitivity  of  the  bone  marrow.  Most  trials  have  used  radiolabeled  murine  antibodies, 
which often induce HAMA; in addition, their use is likely to be restricted by environmental issues. 
For  several  decades  it  has  been  recognised  that  low-grade  NHL,  and  in  particular  follicular 
lymphomas  are  incurable  diseases  in  spite  of  their  high  sensitivity  to  both  radiotherapy  and 
chemotherapy.  Combination  chemotherapy  of  the  CHOP-type  has  no  clear  advantage  over  single 
1/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agent  chemotherapy  with  chlorambucil  with  regards  to  prognosis.  Although  the  majority  of  the 
patients  will  exhibit  relapse  or  persistent  lymphoma,  this  event  is  not  the  major  prognostic 
determinant. The 10-year disease-free survival is 20-30% compared with an overall survival of about 
8-10 years for patients with follicular lymphoma. The course of disease often contains several relapses 
that are manageable but ultimately most patients will develop chemoresistant lymphoma often with a 
transformation to a  large  cell  more  malignant NHL.  Neither the  use  of interferon-alfa  or  autologous 
bone  marrow  transplantation  have  convincingly  changed  the  outcome  for  these  patients.  The 
combination  of  interferon-alfa  and  chemotherapy  was  shown  to  be  better  than  chemotherapy  alone 
both in terms of tumour progression free survival and overall survival in a controlled trial.  
Rituximab  has  now  been  proven  to  have  a  consistent  antineoplastic  effect  in  patients  with  follicular 
lymphomas. 
Diffuse large cell NHL is a groupp of intermediate –high-grade malignant lymphomas which account 
for  30-40%  of  all  newly  diagnosed  NHL.  They  have  an  aggressive  and  rapidly  fatal  course  unless 
treated with relatively intensive combination chemotherapy, which however cures less than half of the 
patients.  Thus,  the  four-drug  regimen  CHOP  (cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/vincristine/prednisone) 
consistently  has  produced  a  CR  rate  of  50%-60%  in  patients  with  large  cell  lymphomas  and  about 
30%-40%  of  the  patients  remained  continuously  disease-free.  The  CHOP  regimen  has  for  decades 
been  the  most  widely  used  chemotherapy  for  large  cell  lymphoma.  The  results  of  SWOG-8516 
(Intergroup  0067),  the  so-called  US  National  High-Priority  Lymphoma  Study  comparing  standard 
CHOP with m-BACOD or ProMACE-CytaBOM or MACOP-B in a prospective, randomised phase III 
trial  enrolling  approximately  1200  patients,  led  to  the  conclusion  that  CHOP  remains  the  standard 
chemotherapy  for  patients  with  advanced-stage, 
intermediate-  or  high-grade  non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma. 
Rituximab added to CHOP now seems able not only to increase the response rate, but also to improve 
the survival of patients with DLCL. 
MabThera  was  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  on  2  June  1998  for  the  indication:  ”  treatment  of 
patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  lymphoma  who  are  chemoresistant  or  are  in  their  second  or 
subsequent  relapse  after  chemotherapy”.On    <date  of  Commission  Decision>  this  indication  was 
extended through a type II variation to ”treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B-cell 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP chemotherapy”. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects  
MabThera  contains  the  active  ingredient  rituximab  which  is  a  chimeric  mouse/human  monoclonal 
antibody  representing  a  glycosylated  immunoglobulin  with  human  IgG1  kappa  constant  regions  (Fc 
domain), and a murine light- and heavy-chain variable regions (Fab domain).  
Part II of the dossier is of a good standard. The Notice to Applicants is strictly followed and the EU 
guidelines are fulfilled in general. 
Composition 
MabThera  is  a  sterile,  clear,  colourless,  preservative-free  liquid  concentrate  for  intravenous  (IV) 
administration.  MabThera  is  supplied  at  a  concentration  of  10  mg/ml  in  either  100  mg  (10  ml)  or 
500 mg  (50  ml)  single-use  vials.  The  product  is  formulated  for  intravenous  administration  in 
9.0 mg/ml  sodium  chloride,  7.35  mg/ml  sodium  citrate  dihydrate,  0.7  mg/ml  polysorbate  80,  and 
Sterile Water for Injection. The pH is adjusted to 6.5. 
The container is a type I glass vial with rubber stopper. 
Method of preparation 
The manufacture of rituximab begins with a thoroughly characterised Chinese Hamster Ovary master 
cell bank that contains the integrated gene coding for expression of the product. 
The  purification  process  is  based  on  two  chromatographic  techniques:  protein  an  affinity 
chromatography  and  anion  exchange  chromatography.  The  anion  exchange  steps  are  designed  to 
remove impurities such as protein A, host cell DNA, host cell impurity proteins as well as endogenous 
2/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  putative  adventitious  viruses.  Following  production  of  the  formulated  bulk  drug  substance  at 
IDEC  Pharmaceuticals,  San  Diego,  CA,  and  the  product  is  shipped  to  Genentech,  Inc.,  South  San 
Francisco, CA, for final aseptic filling into 100 mg and 500 mg glass vials. 
Based  on  recent  concerns  over  both  the  continued  supply  and  safety  issues  related  to  bovine  and 
human  raw  materials,  a  number  of  process  changes  were  implemented.  These  changes  included 
autoclaving  media  components  at  121°C  or  higher  and  removal  of  the  human  transferrin.  A 
replacement  master  cell  bank  (MCB)  was  developed  because  of  an  inadequate  supply  of  initial  cell 
bank vials. 
Control of starting materials 
Certificates of analysis with predefined specifications have been established for the following points: 
the  pre-harvested  cell  culture  fluid  (to  demonstrate  freedom  from  adventitious  viral  or  mycoplasmal 
contamination),  the  formulated  bulk  for  shipment  where  the  primary  emphasis  is  on  testing  for 
identity,  purity,  potency,  strength  and  bioburden.  A  certificate  of  analysis  with  appropriate 
specifications is also required upon receipt of the bulk drug substance by Genentech. At this time, the 
bulk may be frozen for storage for up to 18 months at -20°C. The frozen formulated bulk is thawed 
and  sterile  filtered  prior  to  aseptic  filling  at  Genentech.  A  certificate  of  analysis  completed  by 
Genentech  includes  testing  for  sterility  (meets  PhEur),  identity,  endotoxin  and  protein  content. 
Following  final  formulation  of  the  bulk  product,  analysis  for  pH,  Polysorbate  80  concentration  and 
sodium concentration are performed, pH and osmolality of the final dosage form is confirmed.  
For  both  MCBs  prepared,  the  host  cells  were  tested  by  several  biochemical,  biological  and 
immunological tests to assess cell line identity and freedom from adventitious agents. 
Bioburden, Rodent Parvovirus PCR, and mycoplasma (PCR) is tested for at the end of the production 
run. Action limits are set (positive/detectable). 
Details  of the preparation  of the culture  media  have been  provided. Cells are  cultured  in serum free 
medium. The composition of the medium used for production and cryopreservation of the cell banks 
has been provided. 
Two  changes  have  been  introduced  in  the  culture  medium:  addition  of  Gentamycin  and  the 
replacement  of  human  transferrin  by  an  increased  amount  of  ferrous  sulphate  already  present  in  the 
cell  culture  medium.  Full-scale  production  data  have  shown  that  replacement  of  transferrin  by  an 
increased amount of ferrous sulphate has not affected any of the known characteristics of the molecule 
as demonstrated by the determination of potency, SDS-page, tryptic mapping and glycan distribution. 
This  replacement  does  not  affect  the  characteristics  of  the  molecule.  Gentamycin  is  added  to  the 
culture  as  a  final  prophylactic  measure  against  mycoplasma  contamination.  Small-scale  studies 
demonstrated that Gentamycin does not adversely affect the product and can be effectively removed 
by  the  purification  process.  The  use  of  Gentamycin  in  the  culture  medium  is  acceptable  and  was 
examined in connection with the GMP inspections. 
Both the initial MCB and the WCB were frozen in medium containing 95% FBS. FBS was tested for 
the  presence  of  bovine  viruses  BVD,  PI-3  and  IRB.  It  was  confirmed  that  material  derived  from 
bovine sources complies with the NfG on BSE. Stability studies for the replacement MCB have been 
provided. 
Characterisation 
Rituximab is a highly purified 1328-amino acid chimeric mouse/human antibody that is produced in 
mammalian cell culture using Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. This IgG1 kappa antibody contains 
murine light and heavy chain variable regions, and human gamma 1 heavy chain and kappa light chain 
constant  regions.  The  molecular  weight  of  this  antibody  is  144,544  Daltons,  calculated  from  the 
primary sequence of the reduced, non-glycosylated form. The light chain consists of 213 amino acids 
and heavy chain consists of 451 amino acids.  
The  characterisation  of  the  molecule  is  extensive  utilising  a  large  battery  of  different  techniques  as 
amino  acid  analysis,  amino-terminal  sequence  analysis,  peptide  mapping,  and  analysis  of 
oligosaccharides, ion-exchange chromatography, cIDF, SDS-PAGE, and CD.  
3/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
The  oligosaccharide  structure  was  investigated  by  capillary  zone  electrophoresis  (CE)  and  three 
oligosaccharides  G0,  G1  and  G2  are  identified.  The  same  three  glycoforms  were  identified  by 
MALDI-TOF after isolation from HPAEC-PAD and data report of this analysis was submitted. There 
is no evidence for a terminal sialic acid containing oligosaccharide. 
Analytical Development 
The techniques employed for control of cell banks, intermediates, active ingredient and final product 
are described in detail. All methods have been fully validated in accordance to the relevant guideline 
for all relevant parameters as linearity, accuracy, LOD/LOQ, precision, robustness, specificity, lot-to-
lot comparison and stability indicating properties. 
Process validation 
The  full-scale  production  process  was  validated  through  compilation  of  process  results  of  all 
successful runs. During fermentation the bioreactor operating parameters, cell growth, % viable cells 
and run hours were submitted. In view of the number of runs (fermentation 15 runs and purification 
process 14 runs) and the results obtained, the in-process criteria are met. No deviations of processing 
instructions  are  reported.  Appropriate  in-process  controls  have  been  established  for  detection  of 
Minute Virus of Mice (MVM) and bioburden at the pre-harvested cell culture fluid step. During the 
recovery process, limits for product titer, protein step yields, Bovine IgG, Protein A, bioburden, and 
endotoxin have been established to ensure that the process operates consistently. 
Control tests on the finished product 
The analytical methods are fully described and are properly validated. 
Stability 
The results of the ongoing stability studies of the 10 ml and 50 ml filled at Genentech to support the 
claimed shelf life were provided.  
The  company  is  committed  to  provide  real  time  shelf-life  stability  studies  for  the  bulk  formulated 
product  and  the  finished  product  on  an  on-going  basis  for  production  batches  using  the  new  media 
composition. 
A shelf life of 2-8 °C for 2 years protected from direct sunlight can be accepted. 
Virus validation 
Virus validation is done in accordance with the appropriate ICH guidelines. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Rituximab  is  a  chimeric  mouse/human  monoclonal  antibody,  which  targets  an  epitope  CD20  on 
human  B-lymphocytes.  For  primary  pharmacodynamics  only  experiments  in  non-human  primates 
are relevant. Neither rodent nor canine B-cells bind rituximab. In long-term administration studies the 
problem  of  immunogenicity  of  rituximab  in  Cynomolgus  could  make  the  results  inconclusive. 
Antibodies  against  rituximab  may  appear  after  2  weeks  of  treatment.  Therefore,  no  xenograft 
experiments  are  feasible.  No  animal  model  is  available  for  evaluating  the  antineoplastic  effect. 
Pharmacodynamic studies consist of immunoanatomic distribution and immunopathologic analysis of 
rituximab.  The  initial  in-vitro  characterisation  of  rituximab  was  performed  with  an  early-purified 
antibody  from  first  CHO-cultures.  During  the  development,  rituximab  was  produced  at  different 
facilities  with  slight  modifications  of  the  manufacturing  processes.  The  applicant  has  investigated 
rituximab's immunoanatomic distribution with Suspension Culture Produced antibody, Hollow Fiber 
Produced antibody, and Stirred Tank Produced antibody at the Torreyana Facility. 
A  number  of  in-vitro  studies  were  performed  to  confirm  the  specificity  and  affinity  for  the  CD20 
epitope. The apparent binding affinity constant was 5.2 x 10-9M. The binding of human complement 
C1q and complement dependent cytotoxicity and antibody dependent cytotoxicity was documented by 
fluorescein conjugation and 51-Cr release. The tissue specificity was demonstrated in several human 
4/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cross  reactivity  studies.  Human  hematopoietic  progenitor  cells  depleted  of  B-cells  by  incubation  of 
rituximab retained their colony formation and no effect was noted on CD34+ cell population. Doses of 
0.1, 0.4 or 1.6 mg/kg/day x 4 were equally effective for a greater than 80% depletion of peripheral B-
cells. The duration of the depletion was about 7 days after the last injection. A slow recovery of B-
cells was observed thereafter. Full recovery was not seen with certainty at the end of the study period 
(day  90).  Compared  to  saline  treated  animals  a  dose  of  16.8  mg/kg  depleted  >79%  of  CD20+  bone 
marrow cells at the time when the animals were sacrificed and 69% depletion of lymph node CD20+ 
cells. Immuno-histochemical studies on human tissue cross-reactivity were presented. Rituximab was 
highly tissue restrictive. 
Rituximab  had  no  effect  on  human  haematopoietic  progenitor  cells.  The  B-cell  depleting  effect  was 
demonstrated  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  both  in  peripheral  blood  and  lymphatic  tissues.  The  major 
concerns were the low level of exposure in Cynomolgus as compared to human level of exposure (1:1) 
and the lack of long-term animal studies, since B-cell recovery was not complete 90 days post dose. 
The  only unexpected clinical  sign  in  monkeys was nausea;  otherwise  rituximab  appeared to  be  very 
safe. Only pharmacologic effects were observed in the laboratory parameters.  
No  studies  were  performed  to  compare  the  affinity  of  rituximab  with  B-cells  of  humans  versus 
cynomolgus monkeys and to determine the density of CD20 expression on monkey B-cells. However, 
such  studies  are  unnecessary  because  B-cells  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  are  lysed  by  a  single  dose  of 
rituximab,  which  is  evidence  of  relevant  activity  even  if  affinity  and  CD20  expression  may  be 
different in humans and primates. 
The monkey experiments do not provide any evidence that rituximab can fix complement and mediate 
ADCC  in  vivo  other  than  a  reduction  in  CD20  counts.  Experimental  proof  that  cell  killing  really 
occurs has not been provided. From a clinical point of view, further studies in healthy monkeys are not 
needed. The effects of rituximab in different B-cell populations are sufficiently documented. As pre B-
cells  and  plasma  cells  do  not  express  CD20  not  all  B-cell  subpopulations  are  susceptible  to  the 
antibody. 
Pharmacokinetics:  
The preclinical pharmacokinetics of a monoclonal antibody is of lesser relevance as the results mainly 
depend  of  the  isotype  of  the  immunoglobulin,  and  specific  metabolic  and  excretory  studies  are  not 
required.  Due  to  the  binding  to  cellular  CD20  and  lysis  of  normal  and  malignant  cells,  plasma 
pharmacokinetics  are  influenced  by  the  number  of  target  cells  and  will  depend  on  the  size  of  the  B 
lymphocyte pool at a given time point. It may be anticipated that PK values will be different after first 
and  subsequent  doses  because  of  the  B-cell  depleting  effect.  In  animal  studies  the  development  of 
antibodies  to  rituximab  may  influence  the  interpretation  of  multiple  dose  kinetics.  Different 
compartments of B-lymphoid tissue may be targeted more or less easily. Finally the kinetics of B-cell 
in cynomolgous and man may be different. 
Single  dose  pharmacokinetics  was  performed  in  rats  and  cynomolgous  monkeys.  In  both  species  t½ 
was  3-7  days.  Serum  concentrations  increase  dose-dependently  in  cynomolgous  monkeys.  Sex-
difference was also observed and could not be explained. Multiple dose kinetics was assessed in the 
cynomolgous monkey toxicity studies. Only Cmax data are available suggesting that the exposure levels 
in the toxicity studies were similar to those attained in humans.  
Formal  studies  on  absorption,  metabolism  and  excretion  are  not  needed.  Biodistribution  was  not 
studied,  however  it  is  clear  that  the  antibody  penetrates  the  lymphoid  tissues.  It  may  also  cross  the 
placenta and deplete embryonic B-cells. It is not known whether rituximab is present in the milk. 
Toxicity 
Rituximab has been shown to be highly specific to the CD20 antigen on B–cells. No effect other than 
the expected pharmacological depletion of B–cells in peripheral blood as well as in lymphatic tissues 
was  observed  in  toxicity  studies.  The  B–cell  population  showed  reconstitution  after  cessation  of 
treatment. Significantly, adverse reactions unrelated to the targeted effect were seen, neither in single 
nor in multiple dose studies in the Cynomolgus monkey. 
Single dose toxicity 
Rituximab  did  not  show  any  intrinsic  toxicity  when  given  as  a  single  intraperitoneal  injection  to  5 
5/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
mice (108 mg/kg) and 2 guinea pigs (66 mg/kg) as the pharmacologically non–responsive species. The 
results are not considered instructive for the safety characterisation of rituximab. 
In  Cynomolgus  monkeys,  B–cell  depletion  in  the  peripheral  blood  (along  with  gradual  depletion  in 
peripheral lymphatic tissues) could be induced with a single i.v. injection using a dose of 0.4 and 6.5 
mg/kg,  with  only  marginal  recovery  by  day  35.  No  signs  and  symptoms  of  acute  adverse  reactions 
were observed. In a single high–dose experiment with doses of 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg (= 1345 mg/m2), 
rituximab was systemically and locally well tolerated, with only a mild transient decrease of platelets 
observed after dosing in the 30 and 100 mg/kg dose groups. The only adverse event involved one male 
monkey,  which  vomited  one  day  after  dosing  in  the  100-mg/kg-dose  group.  Thus,  serious  dose 
limiting  toxicity  was  not  observed,  even  though  the  doses  used  in  this  study  are  far  above  a 
therapeutically effective dose in monkeys as well as the anticipated clinical dose.  
Repeated dose toxicity 
A  repeated  pilot  pharmacology/toxicology  experiment  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  (using  16.8  mg/kg 
doses)  demonstrated  the  relationship  between  exposure  of  multiple  injections  of  rituximab  to  the 
degree of B–cell depletion in the peripheral blood and bone marrow, as well as within the lymphatic 
tissues. This experiment formed the basis for the initial dose escalating study in humans. Weekly dose 
of  rituximab  up  to  20  mg/kg  (=  276  mg/m2)  was  generally  well  tolerated  over  up  to  8  weeks  of 
treatment  in  a  further  GLP  toxicity  study  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  Occasional  emesis  was  also 
observed in these experiments.  
In  addition,  high  plasma  levels  of  rituximab,  ranging  from  137  to  438  mcg/ml  were  achieved  in  all 
animals 24 h after the first and second dose and persisted at significant levels (91–97 mcg/ml) during 
the treatment intervals.  
Local tolerance 
Rituximab was given in all preclinical safety studies as an i.v. injection, and the formulation was well 
tolerated locally. The formulation used in preclinical experiments was identical to the formulation to 
be marketed. 
Immunotoxicity 
As  described  above,  apart  from  the  expected  depletion  of  B–cells,  there  was  no  other  finding  in 
clinical  pathology  and  histopathology.  Particularly,  there  was  no  evidence  of  toxicity  to  the 
hematopoietic system. T–cells or other cells of the non-CD20+ lymphocyte lineage were not affected 
in  any  of  the  experiments.  It  does  not  affect  the  functionality  of  the  pool  of  CD20  neg.  antibody–
producing plasma cells. However, specific experiments to demonstrate the difference between overall 
and B–cell specific immunosuppression have not been performed in preclinical studies. Rituximab’s 
selectivity  should  result  in  a  lower  immunosuppressive  potential  (with  lower  risk  and  incidence  of 
opportunistic infections). None  of the  rituximab–treated  monkeys developed  any  signs  of  infections. 
No  risk  of  neotransformation  of  B–cells  to  lymphoma  cells  due  to  acute  Epstein–Barr  virus 
reactivation should be expected for rituximab. 
The risk for developing an immune or allergenic response under treatment of rituximab is very low. 
However,  because  rituximab  does  not  deplete  antibody–producing  plasma  cells,  patients  with  an 
existing allergy to murine proteins should not be treated with rituximab.  
The lack of reproductive, mutagenic, genotoxic and carcinogenic studies is justified, and SPC has been 
amended  appropriately.  Findings  of  testicular  hypospermatogenesis  or  aspermatogenesis  and  thymic 
lymphoid atrophy were reported in study 204 and were analysed with respect to the negative results of 
the  cross-reactivity  studies  with  human  tissues.  Rituximab  has  no  direct  binding  specificity  or 
cytotoxicity to thymic or testicular tissue in cross-reactivity studies. The hypo- and aspermatogenesis 
was  most  likely  due  to  sexual  immaturity  in  the  monkeys.  Thymic  atrophy  was  considered  to  be 
caused by experimental stress and is not a toxic effect of rituximab. In several studies the induction of 
antibodies  (Monkey  Anti–chimeric  Antibodies)  against  the  chimeric  antibody  MabThera  in 
Cynomolgus  monkeys  is  reported.  This  is  explained,  as  there  are  sequence  differences  between  the 
monkey IgG and both parts of the chimeric antibody. The antigenicity of rituximab in such preclinical 
studies has no predictive value to humans. 
6/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion 
The  mechanism  underlying  B-cell  depletion  and  potential  B-cell  kill  in  monkeys  has  not  been  fully 
elucidated  neither  has  the  question  whether  rituximab  has  been  internalised  or  not  after  binding  to 
CD20 on human lymphocytes been answered with firm experimental data. Some of the shortcomings 
of  animal  safety  data  are  now  substituted  by  clinical  data  from  patients  with  malignant  lymphoma 
showing that plasma concentrations are irreversibly correlated with frequency of adverse events (i.e. 
more  CD20  binding  sites  and  lower  plasma  concentrations  are  more  likely  to  induce  the  flue-like 
syndrome).  The  very  short  observation  time  (90  days)  in  animals  is  a  clear-cut  deficiency,  but 
additional animal studies are not indicated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical aspects 
4.1   Stage III-IV chemoresistant follicular lymphoma  
The therapeutic indication, which initially was for “indolent B-cell lymphomas”, has been modified to 
the more accurate term “follicular lymphoma”. The assessment focused on this well-defined histologic 
subtype of NHL. The approved indication was restricted to the treatment of patients with stage III-IV 
follicular lymphoma who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after 
chemotherapy. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Two phase I studies have been submitted. The first tested single dose escalating from 10 mg/m2 to 500 
mg/m2 and the second study used the proposed weekly dosing schedule with a total of 4 courses with 3 
doses 125, 250 or 375 mg/m2. The optimal dose regimen has not been established. The applicant has 
justified the use of only a 4-week regimen. The recommended dosage is based on extrapolation from 
PK studies. Higher doses would have implied longer infusion times and hospitalisation for the patient. 
It appears that rituximab is well tolerated after an i.v. infusion of a dose of 375 mg/m2. No relationship 
was observed between dose level and number of AEs. 
Study 102-01 was conducted in 15 patients in groups of 3 with the following dose levels: 10, 50, 100, 
250 or 500 mg/m2. 14/15 patients had a rapid and selective depletion of circulating B-cells within the 
first day post infusion. The effect lasted from 1 to more than 3 months in nearly all patients receiving a 
dose > 50 mg/m2. 
Excisional  biopsies  performed  2  weeks  post  therapy  revealed  binding  of  rituximab  to  tumour 
specimens  in  6/7  patients  tested  and  a  decrease  in  the  percentage  of  B-cells  and  a  corresponding 
increase in  T-cells. In  biopsies from two additional patients,  tumour  was either no longer present  or 
tissue was necrotic. 63 AEs were observed in 14/15 patients and were graded as 1 or 2 except from 2 
cases  of  grade  3  thrombocytopenia,  which  was  the  only  laboratory  abnormality.  The  most  common 
were fever, chills, nausea and headache. 
Study 102-02 was conducted in 18 patients, which were monitored for dose limiting and infusion-rate 
limiting  adverse  events.  They  were  assessed  for  antitumour  efficacy,  development  of  HACA  and 
HAMA,  depletion  of  peripheral  blood  B-cells,  serum  immunoglobulin  levels  and  pharmacokinetics. 
33% of these patients had a partial response (PR). The median time for responses was 50 days. B-cell 
depletion assayed by CD20+ and CD19+ was effective. The most common AE was fever, followed by 
chills, asthenia, and nausea. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  patients  treated  with  either  125,  250  or  375  mg/m2  body  surface  of  MabThera,  given  as  an 
intravenous  infusion  once  weekly  for  four  weeks,  serum  antibody  concentrations  increased  with 
increasing dose. In patients receiving the 375 mg/m2 dose, the mean serum half-life of rituximab was 
68.1  hr,  the  Cmax  was  238.7  µg/ml  and  the  mean  plasma  clearance  was  0.0459  L/hr  after  the  first 
infusion; after the fourth infusion, the mean values for serum half-life, Cmax and plasma clearance were 
189.9 hr, 480.7 µg/ml and 0.0145l/hr, respectively.  
Additionally,  rituximab  serum  concentrations  were  statistically  significantly  higher  for  responding 
7/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients after the third infusion. Typically, rituximab was detectable for 3 to 6 months. 
Dose-finding  studies  are  very  limited  and  the  actual  choice  of  dosage/schedule  is  not  based  on  the 
optimal antitumour activity. AE was not dose-related in the initial phase-I trials. This deficiency is not 
considered as a major objection for a medicinal product of this type where the dosing optimally should 
be based on the number of target CD20+ lymphoma cells. 
This  application  concerns  MabThera  as  monotherapy.  For  efficacy  the  applicant  has  submitted  two 
clinical trials utilising rituximab 375 mg/m2 as intravenous infusion weekly for 4 doses in outpatients 
with relapsed or chemoresistant malignant lymphoma with the histologic subtypes A, B, C, and D of 
the International Working Formulation of Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma for Clinical Usage (IWF). The 
first  trial  102-02  was  a  phase  II  trial  using  the  dose  which  seemed  to  be  the  optimal  based  on 
antitumour  activity  and  clinical  safety  in  a  small  phase  I  trial.  The  second  trial  102-05  was  not  a 
randomised comparative study, but as it used two historical control methods it was defined as a phase 
III study. Overall 203 patients (37 + 166 patients) were included in these two trials. The most pertinent 
results of these two trials are shown in Tables below:  
Efficacy 
The  population  to  support  the  therapeutic  indication  and  the  recommended  dose  derives  from  two 
clinical trials (102-02-part II: 37 patients and 102-05: 166 patients). The primary efficacy parameter 
was  the  overall  response  rate  (PR+CR).  The  secondary  efficacy  parameters  considered  only 
responding patients. 
Tumor Response Rates in Efficacy Studies 102–05 and 102–02 Part II 
Patient Group  Study 
N 
CR (%) 
PR (%) 
CR and PR (%)  95% CI  
(CR and PR) 
Intent to Treat  102–02–II 
102–05  
Total 
Evaluable*  
102–02–II  
102–05  
Total 
37 
166 
203 
34 
151 
185 
 3 ( 8%) 
10 ( 6%) 
13 ( 6%) 
 3 ( 9%) 
 9 ( 6%) 
12 ( 6%) 
14 (38%) 
70 (42%) 
84 (41%) 
14 (41%) 
67 (44%) 
81 (44%) 
17 (46 %)  
30 – 62 %  
80 (48%)  
41 – 56 %  
97 (48%)  
17 (50%)  
76 (50%)  
93 (50%)  
41 – 55 %  
33 – 67 %  
42 – 58 %  
43 – 57 %  
The  overall  response rate  covers  a RR  of  11% for  IWF  subtype A as compared to 57% for patients 
with follicular lymphomas. 
PR = partial response, CR = complete response 
Time to First Tumor Response in Efficacy Studies 102–05 and 102–02 Part II 
Number of 
Responders 
Average Time 
(Days) 
Median Time 
(Days) 
Minimum Time 
(Days) 
102–02–II 
102–05 
Total  
17 
80 
97 
58.2 
65.3 
64 
50 
50 
50 
7 
21 
7 
Maximum 
Time  
(Days) 
112 
288 
288 
8/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Response in Efficacy Studies 102–05 and 102–02 Part II 
Study 
Number of 
Responders 
Average Duration 
(Months) 
Median Duration 
(Months) 
Minimum Duration 
(Months) 
102–02–II  
102–05  
Total  
17 
80 
97 
11.2+  
6.2+  
7.0+  
8.6 
6.5 
6.5+  
2.6 
0.9+  
0.9 
Maximum 
Duration 
(Months) 
26.2+  
12.0+  
26.2+  
The comparisons with reported series of patients treated with cladribine or fludarabine point to an at 
least similar efficacy for rituximab. The intra-patient control comparing the response and duration of 
response  after  rituximab  with  the  same  parameters  achieved  with  the  regimen  immediately  prior  to 
rituximab  is  very  interesting  but  this  method  is  hardly  validated.  However,  using  this  method  of 
comparison the efficacy of rituximab in terms of response rate was not different from other regimens 
used for relapsed lymphoma.  
Kaplan–Meier  analyses  of  time  to  progression  (TTP)  for  all  patients  enrolled  in  studies  102–05  and 
102–02  part  II,  and  for  patients  in  these  studies  who  had  a  CR  or  PR  showed  that  median  TTP  for 
responders has not yet been reached after a median follow–up of 9.2 months. 
The  response  rate  was  57%  in  patients  with  relapsed  or  refractory  follicular  lymphoma  whereas  the 
response rate was only 11 % in patients with small B-lymphocytic lymphoma. The company provided 
additional data on 19 patients with bulky disease (>10 cm diameter) which show comparable response 
rates (63%) and possibly an increased incidence of grade 3-4 adverse events (17%). 
The  company  provided  an  updated  follow-up  of  response  duration  and  time  to  progression  for  the 
patients included in the pivotal studies. The response rates remained unchanged. It is reassuring that 
rituximab appears to have the same efficacy in patients normally considered to be almost unresponsive 
to conventional chemotherapy. 
Safety 
For safety 282 patients receiving rituximab as monotherapy have been evaluated. Of these 164 had a 
cumulative dosage between  1001-1500  mg/m2,  and  81  had  a  cumulative  dosage between 1501-3000 
mg/m2. Adverse events were predominantly seen during the first infusion and consisted of a cytokine 
release or chemical mediator release syndrome with fever, chills, flushing, angioedema etc. occurring 
in  >  50%  of  the  patients.  These  symptoms  were  accompanied  by  hypotension  and  bronchospasm  in 
about 10% of the cases. 
The incidence of infection was 17% during treatment and 12% in the follow-up period. None of these 
infections were considered by the CPMP as severe but included common viral and bacterial infections 
very  different  to  those  seen  after  chemotherapy.  It  should  be  remembered  that  rituximab  does  not 
deplete  plasma  cells  or  progenitor  cells.  As  the  B-cell  depleting  effect  has  not  resolved  completely 
during the follow-up period, the possibility of later infectious events cannot be completely ruled out. 
Updated  safety  data  with  special  emphasis  on  normal  B-cell  recovery  did  not  show  any  detrimental 
consequences of B-cell depletion. The company has not provided any data on the functional behaviour 
and expression of phenotypic markers of B-cells in patients. However, all clinical evidence points to a 
low incidence of infections, as compared to infections due to neutropenia and T-cell suppression seen 
after conventional chemotherapy including newer cytostatics such as cladribine or pentostatin. 
The results of a phase III combination study with CHOP + MabThera in 40 patients were provided. In 
this non-comparative study there was no evidence of additive or synergistic toxicity.  
Serious and fatal infusion-related reactions reported post-authorisation.  
Thirty-nine  fatalities  and  66  serious  infusion  related  reactions,  representing  all  world-wide 
spontaneous reported events and trial-related serious ADR reports from IDEC, Genentech and Roche 
were presented on 15 December 1998at the request of the CPMP.  
The reporting period was 1 November 1997 to 22 November 1998. According to the MAH 12,000 to 
14,000 patients with various B-cell neoplasias have been exposed to rituximab up to that date. Most 
9/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
fatal cases were observed in patients who were treated for other B-cell neoplasias than covered by the 
authorised therapeutic indication. These events were classified as in the following table. 
1.  Infusion related syndrome with fatal outcome 
a.  within 24 hours 
b.  within a few days 
2.  Deaths from causes possibly induced by rituximab 
3.  Deaths from causes probably unrelated to rituximab 
a.  with infusion ADR 
b.  without infusion ADR 
4 patients 
5 patients 
6 patients 
4 patients 
  13 patients 
4.  Deaths not classifiable due to lack of information 
7 patients 
Total 
  39 patients 
The  pathophysiological  mechanisms  behind  this  rapid  onset  infusion-related  syndrome  should  be 
further  elucidated  in  order  to  prevent  or  at  least  attenuate  it.  It  seems  reasonable  to  conclude  that 
elevated WBC reflecting high number of circulating blood tumour cells constitute a serious risk factor 
for the development of the syndrome.  
Other risk factors possibly include:  
• 
• 
a  high  tumour  cell  burden  in  other  lymphomatous  organ  compartments  (lymph  nodes,  spleen, 
bone marrow, extranodal sites  
baseline LDH level, histologic subtype etc.  
One  feature  of  the  syndrome  appears  to  be  fairly  consistent,  namely  dyspnoea,  bronchospasm,  and 
hypoxyaemia (in those patients who had oxygen saturation and/or oxygen tension assessed) combined 
with  pulmonary  infiltrates  (in  those  patients  who  had  chest  X-ray  performed)  occurring  almost 
exclusively  during  the  first  infusion.  Consecutive  WBC  measurements  point  to  a  very  rapid  decline 
(over hours) in CD20-positive tumour cells. It could be hypothesised that the rapid cell lysis leads to 
sludging of cellular debris in the lung capillaries. Hypotension, another consistent feature might thus 
be a secondary symptom. The Summary of Product Characteristics was revised to address properly the 
infusion related events. 
Severe skin disorders reported post-authorisation. 
Six cases of  severe skin disorders (paraneuoplastic pemphigus, toxic epidermal necrolysis, lichenoid 
dermatitis and lichen planus) were reported post-authorisation. A causal relationship to rituximab has 
not been established. The summary of product characteristics was revised to include these disorders. 
Risk/benefit assessment 
The following considerations were taken into account for the assessment of the product:  
• 
• 
• 
The identifiable medical needs for an effective agent in relapsed patients who are resistant or 
poorly responsive to conventional chemotherapy, or who are unable to tolerate its cumulative 
toxicity. 
The low toxicity of MabThera observed in monotherapy studies, clearly superior to the safety 
profile of conventional chemotherapy. 
The novel mechanism of action of the product. 
In  patients  with  relapsed  or  refractory  follicular  lymphoma  the  response  rate  was  57%  whereas  the 
response rate was only 11 % in patients with small B-lymphocytic lymphoma. The company provided 
additional data on 19 patients with bulky disease (>10 cm diameter), which show comparable response 
rates  (63%)  and  possibly  an  increased  incidence  of  grade  3-4  adverse  events  (17%).  Kaplan–Meier 
10/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analyses of time to progression (TTP) for all patients enrolled in studies 102–05 and 102–02 part II, 
and for patients in these studies who had a CR or PR showed that median TTP for responders has not 
yet been reached after a median follow–up of 9.2 months. 
The safety profile of rituximab appears to be favourable. First, treatment can be given on an outpatient 
basis. The total duration of treatment is 22 days and, except for a cytokine release syndrome with fever 
and chills, which may be combined with mild hypotension and bronchospasm during the first cycle of 
therapy, other adverse events are rare and mild. Grade 4 haematological toxicity is infrequent (2-3%) 
as compared to conventional chemotherapy.  
On  the  basis  of  the  current  data  it  was  concluded  that  the  use  of  MabThera  should  be  restricted  to 
patients with stage III-IV follicular NHL who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent 
relapse  after  chemotherapy. The product showed a  good tolerability  profile in that group  of patients 
with a good response rate and a sufficiently prolonged duration of response. Moreover no satisfactory 
standard treatment in this particular population is available. 
It  was  agreed  that  for  the  specific  restricted  group  of  patients,  as  outlined  above,  no  prospective 
comparative  randomised  phase  III  study  would  be  required  as  in  the  absence  of  an  established 
chemotherapeutic  regimen,  such  a  study  would  not  be  feasible.  The  Company  should  provide 
additional information from ongoing phase II studies, undertaken in this population.  
Any  application  for  the  extension  of  the  indications  for  MabThera  outside  the  restricted  population 
indicated  above  would  require  controlled  clinical  trials.  As  there  are  standard  chemotherapeutic 
regimens available for patients with first relapse and these patients have good prognosis, comparative 
studies are required to identify the place of MabThera in this situation.  
Following the evaluation of the safety finding obtained from post-authorisation exposure to rituximab, the 
risk/benefit  assessment  seems  not  to  be  affected.  Out  of  12,000  to  14,000  patients  with  various  B-cell 
neoplasias  9  fatal  cases  were  classified  as  probably  related  and  6  fatal  cases  as  possibly  related  to 
rituximab. The toxicity of rituximab still compares favourably with most cytostatic agents. Most of the 
treated patients have end-stage disease, have received several regimens of chemotherapy and are left with 
very few other therapeutic options. 
4.2. Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma in combination with CHOP 
The application for the indication of DLCL is based on 3 clinical trials: a pivotal phase III randomized 
trial and two supportive phase II trials. All were conducted in accordance with the Helsinki declaration 
and complied with GCP requirements. 
Study  SO15165,  an  open-label,  multicenter,  randomized  dose-finding  phase  II  studies  in  54  patients 
with  DLCL  or  Roche  conducted  other  CD20+  aggressive  NHL’s.  It  compared  rituximab  as  single 
agent  therapy  at  doses  of  375  mg/m2  (group  A)  versus  500  mg/m2  (group  B).  Rituximab  was  given 
weekly  for  8  weeks  unless  lack  of  response  at  4  weeks,  progressive  disease  or  toxicity  prevented 
further therapy. 
Study  U0715s,  a  single  arm  phase  II  study  in  33  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  aggressive  NHL, 
including  DLCL,  was  conducted  by  Genentech  with  the  purpose  to  establish  the  feasibility  of  the 
rituximab-CHOP combination    
Study  LNH98-5,  a  phase  III  randomized  study  in  399  elderly  (>  60)  patients  from  86  European 
centers, with newly diagnosed DLCL was conducted by the GELA cooperative group and supported 
by Roche. It compared treatment with rituximab plus CHOP to CHOP. A total of 399  patients were 
enrolled,  of  whom  197  were  randomised  to  CHOP  alone  and  202were  randomised  to  rituximab  + 
CHOP. One patient in study LNH98-5 received no treatment.  
The  pharmacodynamics  following  the  combination  of  rituximab  and  CHOP  was  not  studied 
separately, but was in part included in the studies U0715s and LNH98-5.  
In study U0715s the effect on lymphoid B-cells in peripheral blood was followed by flow cytometry 
by using CD19 as a marker. The CD19+ cells decreased from a median baseline count of 89/µl before 
rituximab  +  CHOP  to  undetectable  levels  in  all  patients  during  the  treatment  phase,  and  was 
undetectable  in  27/29  patients  at  week  10  and  22/25  patients  at  week  20.  Recovery  to  baseline  was 
observed by month 12 in 4/12 patients and by month 24 in 15/21 patients. 
11/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
The immediate infusion related effects were studied in a subset of 55 patients in study LNH98-5. Both 
CHOP  and  R-CHOP  were found in the hours  post-infusion to lead to  increases in  neutrophil counts 
and  decrease  in  lymphocyte-  and  monocyte  counts  with  no  major  difference  between  the  regimens. 
However, R-CHOP also led to increase in LDH, C3a and TNF, probably associated with rapid lysis of 
normal and malignant B-lymphocytes. The findings were pronounced already at one hour.  
A beneficial effect of rituximab in the combination seems related to the chemosensitization. This again 
seems related to the crosslinking of CD20 on the target B-cell surface leading to a downregulation of 
IL-10 transcription and protein expression. This causes downregulation of BCL-2 expression and 
thereby increased cellular sensitivity to chemotherapy –mediated cytotoxicity and apoptosis. 
Clinical Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic pattern was reported in the original MAA and has not been extensively restudied 
in patients with DLCL. In the original studies weekly doses for 4 weeks of 125, 250 or 350 mg/m2 led 
to  dose  dependent  increases  in  serum  concentration.  At  375  mg/m2  the  mean  serum  half-life  of 
rituximab was 68.1 hours, Cmax was 238.7 µg/ml and the mean plasma clearance was 0.0459 L/h after 
the first infusion. Following the fourth infusion the corresponding values were 189.9 h, 480.7 µg/ml 
and 0.0145 L/h, respectively. The increase in half-life seems related to the reduction in CD20 positive 
tumor mass and serum values of rituximab were inversely related to tumor load. Measurable rituximab 
concentrations were present in serum as late as 3-6 months post treatment. 
The  applicant  states  that  rituximab  serum  concentrations  in  the  DLCL  patients  were  comparable  to 
those found in patients with follicular lymphomas following treatment with similar doses. 
There  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  rituximab  has  any  influence  on  the  kinetics  of  the  CHOP 
components.  It  does  not  affect  any  of  the  cytochrome  families  responsible  for  metabolizing 
cyclophosphamide,  doxorubicin,  or  vincristine  or  their  excretion  pathways.  Furthermore  the 
achievement of a similar dose intensity and toxicity of the CHOP component in the CHOP arm and the 
R-CHOP arm suggests that rituximab exerts no influence on the pharmacokinetics of the CHOP drugs. 
Efficacy results from Phase II Study SO15165 
The study was rather brief due to the aggressive nature of the disease and the relapse status of most of 
the  patients,  with  last  observation  at  day  106.  The  endpoints  were  safety  measures  and  response, 
evaluated with standard criteria as CR, CRu and PR.  
The response rate  in  the  ITT  group  was  31%  CR+PR  in  group A versus  32%  in  group  B  (NS).  In the 
pooled data the response in 54 intent-to-treat patients was 9% CR and 22% PR. In the DLCL patients the 
overall response rate was 37 %. Median time to response was 56 days. 
The response rate was higher in relapsed than in refractory patients, it was higher in DLCL and MCL 
than  in  patients  with  undefined  histology  and  it  was  higher  in  patients  with  small  tumor  masses  (< 
5cm) than in those with larger lymphomas. Previous ABMT was not a negative prognostic factor. 
Due to the short study the only statement given with respect to time dependant parameters was, that 
the median time to progression exceeded 105 days (for the 17 responders 246 days). 
This  first  study  of  rituximab  monotherapy  in  patients  with  intermediate  or  high  grade  lymphomas 
demonstrated a clear antineoplastic effect with only moderate toxicity. Compared to the standard dose 
of  375  mg/m2  the  higher  dose  500  mg/m2  did  not  lead  to  an  increase  in  response  rate,  but  was 
accompanied by higher frequencies of grade 3-4 AE and SAE, more infusion-related changes in dose 
and higher frequency of severe neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. 
Since the efficacy was the same, but the safety profile less favorable with the high dose, it was decided 
to continue the studies in large cell lymphomas with the standard dose of 375 mg/m2. 
Efficacy results from Phase II Study U0715s 
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 6 cycles of rituximab 375mg/m2 in 
combination with CHOP in 33 previously untreated patients with intermediate or high grade NHL 
Standard criteria were used for response-evaluation, which was carried out at baseline, week 10,  20 
and 24  and follow-up months 4, 8, 12, 18 and 24. Confirmatory evaluations of response were carried 
out within 4 weeks of its onset. Responses were sponsor assessed. Primary efficacy measure was rate 
of CR at week 24, secondary efficacy variables were overall response rate (ORR), time to response, 
12/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
time to progression (TTP) / progression free survival (PFS), and survival at 2 years.  
By week 24, 20/33 patients (61%) had achieved a CR and 11 (33%) a PR for an ORR of 94%. Among 
the  partial  responders  further  tumor  regression  took  place  after  week  24  and  by  month  4  in  four 
patients  (without  further  therapy)  and  by  month  12  in  one  patient  (following  consolidation 
radiotherapy).  All five patients had converted from a PR status to a CR status. Best response on study 
was therefore 25/33 or 76% CR and 6/33 or 18% PR. Two patients experienced progression during the 
study.  
At  follow-up  month  24  only  4  patients  had  experienced  disease  progression  (3  patients)  or  death 
without disease progression (one patient, died from a stroke while in remission).  The median time to 
progression has not been reached. The 2-year PFS is 88%. Twenty-nine responders were in continued 
remission at the time of the database lock on 18 February 2000 after a median observation time of 26 
months.  The  median  duration  of  response  has  therefore  not  been  reached,  with  a  range  of  6  to  35+ 
months. 
Survival (from start of treatment to death from any cause) was 94 % at the 2-year point. Three patients 
had  died  (one  from  stroke,  two  from  progressive  disease).  The  median  length  of  follow-up  for  the 
surviving patients was 871 days. 
Efficacy results from Phase III Study LNH98-5 (GELA) 
This is a randomised, open-label, parallel group, multicenter, phase III trial carried out by the Groupe 
d’Etude des Lymphomes de l’Adulte (GELA) in cooperation with the MAH. The objectives were to 
compare the efficacy and safety of CHOP chemotherapy versus CHOP plus rituximab with respect to 
event-free survival, response rate, progression rate, disease-free survival, overall survival and toxicity. 
Patients were randomised to one of the two treatments 
• 
• 
Standard CHOP (cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 IV on day 1, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 IV on day 
1,  vincristine  1.4  mg/m2  IV  on  day 1,  prednisolone  40  mg/m2 IV day 1,  PO  days 2-5 of each 
cycle) given every 21 days for 8 cycles  
Rituximab  375  mg/m2  plus  standard  CHOP    (R-CHOP)  given  every  21  days  for  8  cycles. 
Rituximab was administered on day one, following the corticosteroid part of CHOP, but before 
the  cytotoxic  agents.  Pretreatment  with  paracetamol  and  dexchlorpheniramine  was  given  to 
prevent  infusion-related  syndrome.  Dose  modification  followed  standard  criteria;  initially  50 
mg/h and then escalated to a maximum of  400  mg/h. If severe infusion-related AE developed 
guidelines indicated stopping rules and attempts at reinfusion. 
The randomization was stratified by center and age-adjusted IPI score (0-1 vs 2-3). 
Clinical assessments were performed at the start of each treatment cycle and tumor response was assessed 
after  cycle  4  and  8.    After  the  treatment  phase  the  patients  were  to  be  re-evaluated  at  follow-up  visits 
every 3  months for 2 years, then every 6 months for the  following 2 years and annually thereafter. An 
interim analysis was planned when 50% of the planned 400 patients had been randomized, 107 events had 
occurred, and 100 patients had been followed for a minimum of one year. 
No comprehensive dose finding has been done for rituximab in combination with CHOP. In the study 
SO15165, where a dose of 375 mg/m2 was compared 500 mg/m2, the higher dose did not prove more 
effective and was associated with more pronounced toxicity. The 375-mg/m2 doses, which previously 
was approved for follicular lymphomas, therefore also was chosen as the standard dose in combination 
with CHOP chemotherapy in the DLCL studies. 
The  primary  efficacy  parameter  was  event  free  survival,  calculated  from  randomization  date  to 
relapse, progression, change to new therapy, or death from any cause. 
Secondary efficacy parameters were: TTP calculated as above but not including change of therapy or 
death from causes unrelated to lymphoma, disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), response 
rate after cycle 4 and 8 measured as CR, CRu, PR, SD, PD, and duration of response. 
Inclusion criteria included histologic diagnosis of B-cell DLCL (REAL/WHO), age 60 to 80 years, no 
previous treatment, Ann Arbor stage II-IV, performance 0-2 (ECOG scale). Organ and bone marrow 
function were to be adequate; CNS lymphoma, and a history of indolent lymphoma were among the 
exclusion criteria. 
13/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The study recruited 399 randomized patients from 86 European centers. All except one patient, who 
did not receive study treatment, are included in the 398-patient safety analysis population (SAP), but 
only those included in the study at the time of the interim-analysis (July24, 2000) are included in the 
efficacy analysis. This interim-analysis population (IAP) consists of 328 patients, 159 randomized to 
CHOP and 169 to R-CHOP.  As of June 1, 2000, the median duration of follow-up for the IAP was 
378  days,  for  the  SAP  was  476  days.  A  third  population  for  analysis,  the  per  protocol  analysis 
population (PPAP) was defined as the IAP minus the excluded patients. The PPAP numbers were 121 
for  CHOP  and  139  for  R-CHOP,  respectively.  The  efficacy  analyses  were  mainly  carried  out  in  the 
IAP,  and  the  PPAP  was  only  used  for  a  few  confirmatory  analyses.  An  overview  of  the  efficacy 
results, based on the IAP and based on investigator assessments, is presented in table 1. 
Table 1 
Overview of Efficacy Results in Study LNH98-5 (IAP) 
Variable 
12-Month Event-Free Survival 
12- Month Overall Survival 
12-MonthProgression-Free 
Survival 
12-Month Disease-Free Survival 
CR/ CRu at 8 week assessment 
* Kaplan-Meier estimates 
CHOP 
(N=159) 
48%* 
68%* 
54%* 
R-CHOP 
(N=169) 
68%* 
83%* 
74%* 
p-value 
0.0002 (log-rank) 
0.0055 (log-rank) 
0.0001 (log-rank) 
64%* 
93 (59%) 
80%* 
120 (71%) 
0.0048 (log-rank) 
0.018  (χ2) 
The primary efficacy parameter event-free survival was statistically significantly increased in the R-
CHOP group (p= 0.0002).  The median time to event was approximately one year in the CHOP group, 
but  has  not  been  reached  in  the  R-CHOP  group.  The  risk  of  having  an  event  was  reduced  by  about 
50% in the R-CHOP group, the unadjusted risk ratio by Cox analysis was 0.52 and following IPI score 
adjustment 0.53. 
The  total  number  of  events  was  77  in  the  CHOP  group  and  49  in  the  R-CHOP  group.  The  most 
frequent events were progression during randomized treatment (34 vs 14), relapse for CR patients (25 
vs 14), new treatment (5 vs 6) and death from any cause without progression (11 vs 12). The analysis 
was repeated in the smaller Per Protocol Population (PPAP) and gave the same result with a p-value of 
0.0004. The CEC review changed details on responses for only 2 patients in the CHOP group (one was 
progression after PR instead of relapse after CR and the other was a data entry error). The results of 
the re-analysis following these 2 changes were the same. 
 The interim analysis shows that the addition of rituximab to CHOP compared to CHOP alone 
significantly increase the tumor response rate with significant prolongation of the event-free survival, 
progression-free survival, disease-free survival and overall survival.  
At  the  request  of  the  CPMP  the  MAH  has  supplied  a  number  of  further  analyses  based  on  a  more 
recent update. The antineoplastic advantage of R-CHOP as compared to CHOP is retained in the new 
update  (reduction  of  the  risk  of  an  event  in  event-free  survival  by  42%  and  reduction  in  the  risk  of 
death  in  overall  survival  by  37%)  and  these  results  are  confirmed  in  the  DLCL  panel-confirmed 
histology group. A 24-month analysis of both the previously presented interim study population and 
the population of all 399 randomized patients is now presented. Thus as demonstrated in table 2 and 
figure 1 event-free survival of all randomized patients is significantly prolonged in the R-CHOP arm 
as compared to CHOP treatment (p= 0.0001) and the risk of an event is reduced by 42%. 
14/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Event-free Survival (All Randomized Patients, N = 399) 
Parameter 
18-month Update 
(cut-off: Feb. 1, 2000)  
24-month Update 
(cut-off: July 1, 2001)  
CHOP 
N = 197 
R-CHOP 
N = 202 
CHOP 
N = 197 
R-CHOP 
N = 202 
No. of patients with event at clinical cut-off 
111 
76 
120 
86 
Event-free survival rate (Kaplan-Meier estimates) 
12-month 
18-month 
24-month1 
p-value (log rank test) 
Risk ratio  
CI95% 
(Cox regression) 
50.3% 
43.2% 
– 
67.5% 
61.8% 
– 
50.3% 
42.8% 
37.3% 
67.8% 
62.0% 
57.0% 
0.0001 
0.57 
0.42 – 0.76 
0.0001 
0.58 
0.44 – 0.77 
1 Not reported for the 18-month update because of the low number of patients at risk at 24 months 
Table 3  
Parameter 
Overall Survival (All Randomized Patients, N = 399) 
18-month Update 
(cut-off: Feb. 1, 2001)  
24-month Update 
(cut-off: July 1, 2001)  
CHOP 
N = 197 
R-CHOP 
N = 202 
CHOP 
N = 197 
R-CHOP 
N = 202 
No. of patients dead at clinical cut-off 
73 
51 
81 
59 
Overall survival rate (Kaplan-Meier estimates) 
12-month  
18-month 
24-month1 
p-value (log rank test) 
Risk ratio  
a)  CI95%  
(Cox regression) 
69.7% 
61.1% 
- 
82.2% 
73.5% 
- 
69.5% 
62.0% 
57.3% 
82.7% 
74.6% 
70.2% 
0.0063 
0.61 
0.43 – 0.87 
0.0072 
0.63 
0.45 – 0.89 
1 Not reported for the 18-month update because of the low number of patients at risk at 24 months 
15/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  
a)  18-Month Update (Cut-off February 1, 2001) 
Event-free Survival (All Randomized Patients, N = 399) 
b)  24-month Update (Cut-off July 1, 2001) 
Overall survival is, as demonstrated in table 3 and figure 2 in the updated analysis, still significantly 
prolonged by R-CHOP (p= 0.0072) with a 37% reduction in the risk of death. 
16/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2      Overall survival (all randomized patients, n= 399) 
a)  18-Month Update (Cut-off February 1, 2001) 
b)  24-month Update (Cut-off July 1, 2001) 
17/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The  analysis  of  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  DLCL  confirmed  by  the  pathology  review  panel  (n= 
334)  versus  unconfirmed  (n=65)  was  based  on  the  results  from  the  18-month  follow-up.  Event-free 
survival was  significantly improved by R-CHOP in the DLCL  group (p< 0.0001) and the risk of  an 
event  was  reduced  by  49  %.  In  the  group  with  an  unconfirmed  DLCL  diagnosis  there  was  no 
difference in EFS between CHOP and R-CHOP. Overall survival was also significantly prolonged by 
R-CHOP (p=0.0066) in the DLCL-confirmed group with a reduction in risk of death by 41%. In the 
group with unconfirmed DLCL a risk reduction of 25% was not statistically significant.  
Safety 
The  majority of the AE in study SO15165 were infusion-related events during or following the first 
infusion, which are well known from other rituximab studies. The higher dose of 500 mg/m2 in study 
SO15165 did not prove more effective and was associated with more pronounced toxicity. 
 Two patients (4%) withdrew from the  study, one with anaphylactic shock in group A and one with 
serum sickness in group B.  Twenty-four (86%) patients experienced 63 drug-related events in group 
A and 21 patients (81%) experienced 84 drug related events in group B with the most frequent events 
being fever, rigors, hypothermia and hypotension. Grade 3 and 4 drug-related events occurred in 18% 
and 23% in group A and B, respectively. Drug related SAE’s occurred in 11% in group A and 23% in 
group B. Severe neutropenia was seen in 4% and 12% in groups A and B, severe thrombocytopenia in 
0% and 12% and severe lymphocytopenia in 61%and 81 %, respectively. CD20+ B cells were rapidly 
depleted  from  peripheral  blood,  but with considerable variation between patients,  and  depletion was 
usually complete following 3 infusions. Infectious episodes were noted in 39% and 31% in groups A 
and  B,  respectively  and  drug  related  infections  in  18%  and  19%.  No  grade  3  or  4  infections  were 
noted. 
In study U0715s the AE’s in general were those expected from CHOP chemotherapy plus those expected 
from rituximab therapy, with no signs of interaction. All 33 patients experienced at least one AE; the most 
frequent events were alopecia, neutropenia, asthenia, nausea, and fever. Grade 3 or 4 AE’s occurred in 31 
patients  (94%)  with  the  most  frequent  being  neutropenia  and  leukopenia.  Serious  AE’s  occurred  in  14 
patients  (42%),  the  most  frequent  were  neutropenia,  sepsis,  fever,  leukopenia,  and  dehydration.  The 
investigators  assessed most AE’s to be related to CHOP. The most frequent events  assessed to be related 
to rituximab were grade 1 and 2 fever (11 patients) and chills (10 patients). Infusion-related AE’s  (fever, 
chills and allergic reaction in 36%, 30% and 12%, respectively, were mainly seen in cycle 1 and were not 
reported after cycle 1 except for grade 1 fever, which was reported in cycles 2 and 5 (1 patient, 3%). 
There  were  3  deaths  during  the  study.  One  patient  in  CR  died  from  a  stroke  and  2  died  from 
progressive disease. Laboratory tests mainly revealed the hematologic changes. Twenty-nine patients 
were  tested  for  HACA  response,  and  no  positive  reactions  were  found.  Subnormal  values  for  IgG, 
IgA, and IgM were found throughout week 20 in 15%-30 % of the patients but were not considered 
clinically relevant. 
The  main  safety  data  deriving  from  the  randomised  Phase  III  trial  LNH  98-5  (GELA)  can  be 
summarised as follows: 
Grade 3 and 4 infusion-related reactions occurred in approximately 9% of patients at the time of the 
first cycle of R-CHOP. The incidence of infusion-related reactions decreased to less than 1% by the 
eighth  cycle  of  R-CHOP.  The  signs  and  symptoms  were  consistent  with  those  observed  during 
monotherapy,  and 
tachycardia,  dyspnea, 
included  fever,  chills,  hypotension,  hypertension, 
bronchospasm, nausea, vomiting, pain and features of tumor lysis syndrome.  
The proportion of patients with grades 2 to 4 infections and/or febrile neutropenia was 54.5% in the R-
CHOP  group  and  50.5%  in  the  CHOP  group.  Febrile  neutropenia  (i.e.  no  report  of  concomitant 
documented infection) was reported only during the treatment period, in 20.3% in the R-CHOP group 
and  15.3%  in  the  CHOP  group,  respectively.  The  overall  incidence  of  grade  2  to  4  infections  was 
44.6%  in  the  R-CHOP  group  and  41.3%  in  the  CHOP  group  with  no  difference  in  the  incidence  of 
systemic bacterial and fungal infections.  
After each treatment cycle, grade 3 and 4 leukopenia (88% vs 79%) and neutropenia (97% vs 87%) 
occurred more frequently in the R-CHOP group than in the CHOP group. No difference between the 
two treatment arms was observed with respect to grade 3 and 4 anaemia (19% in the CHOP group vs 
14% in the R-CHOP group) and thrombocytopenia (15% in the CHOP group vs 16% in the R-CHOP 
18/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
group).  The  time  to  recovery  from  all  hematological  abnormalities  was  comparable  in  the  two 
treatment groups.  
The incidence of grade 3 and 4 cardiac arrhythmias, predominantly supraventricular arrhythmias such 
as tachycardia and atrial flutter/fibrillation, was higher in the R-CHOP group (5.9%) as compared to 
the  CHOP  group  (1.0%).  All  of  these  arrhythmias  either  occurred  in  the  context  of  the  infusion  or 
were associated with predisposing conditions such as fever, infection, acute myocardial infarction or 
pre-existing  respiratory  and  cardiovascular  disease.  No  difference  between  the  R-CHOP  and  CHOP 
group  was  observed  in  the  incidence  of  other  grade  3  and  4  cardiac  events  including  heart  failure, 
myocardial disease and manifestations of coronary artery disease. 
Laboratory data and the incidence of infections reported during the follow-up period indicate that the 
patients treated with R-CHOP were not at increased long-term risk of adverse events related to bone 
marrow failure (myelosuppression)or immunosuppression after the end of study treatment. The safety 
information  collected  during  the  follow-up  phase  comprised  severe  adverse  events  (all  grade  3  or  4 
events,  and  grade  2  to  4  infections),  and  hematology  data  (hemoglobin,  and  white  cell,  platelet  and 
neutrophil  counts).  Follow-up  visits  were  scheduled  to  take  place  every  3  months  during  the  first  2 
years  after  the  end  of  the  study  treatment  phase.  In  all  adverse  event  summary  tables,  events  are 
considered to have started in the follow-up phase if they had an onset date more than 33 days (28 + 5 
days) after the first day of the last treatment cycle. Two deaths were reported, both due to progressive 
disease. 
At the request of the CPMP, the MAH added the following sentence to Section 4.8 of the SmPC:  
“One  case  of  serum  sickness  has  been  reported  in  a  clinical  trial  using  MabThera  monotherapy  for 
treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.” 
GCP inspections 
The  CPMP,  in  view  of  the  importance  of  the  results  of  the  Phase  III  studies,  requested  a  GCP 
inspection. Three investigator sites were inspected in France. In summary it can be concluded that the 
efficacy data presented in the interim trial report are of an acceptable standard. Deficiencies identified 
were  related  to  definition  and  follow-up  of  serious  adverse  events,  use  of  oral  instead  of  I.V. 
corticosteroid administration and inadequacy of documentation regarding treatment administration to 
the  patients.  The  CPMP  considered  these  deficiencies  as  minor.  The  overall  monitoring  of  safety 
appears to be satisfactory in the context of an oncologic/haematologic clinical environment. 
Benefit /risk assessment in the indication of DLCL 
The therapeutic benefit of R-CHOP as compared to CHOP includes a risk reduction of events in the 
event-free  survival  by  42%  and  a  reduction  in  the  risk  of  death  in  overall  survival  by  37%.  These 
results are confirmed in the DLCL panel-confirmed histology group. 
The toxicity of CHOP and the toxicity of rituximab have been well described. The particular issue in 
this comparative trial was the question of whether there is an interaction between CHOP and rituximab 
with respect to quality and quantity of the adverse effects. The results proved that the safety profile for 
R-CHOP  was consistent with the expected toxicity from each of the components and that the added 
toxicity  in  comparison  with  the  CHOP  group  mainly  consisted  of  the  infusion-related  side  effects 
typical of the initiation of rituximab treatment. 
Therefore, the benefit-risk assessment for the combination therapy with rituximab in the treatment of 
patients  with  CD20  positive  diffuse  large  B-cell  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  in  combination  with 
CHOP chemotherapy is positive. 
The MAH committed to present the final GELA study report when available, to providing an update 
of the overall survival of study LNH 98-5 regularly each year after marketing and to try to obtain and 
present to the CPMP data from the two independent ongoing trials as soon as it is possible. 
4. 2. 1.  Final report from study LNH98-5 – Efficacy and Safety Update  
The  study  compared  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  8  cycles  of  rituximab  combined  with  CHOP 
chemotherapy (R-CHOP) with 8 cycles of CHOP alone in previously untreated elderly patients (> 60 
years) with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Three hundred and ninety-nine patients were entered into 
19/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  study  (197  CHOP,  202  R-CHOP).  The  study  demonstrated  a  significant  increase  in  event-free 
survival in the R-CHOP group compared with the CHOP group, as a result of lower rates of relapse 
and progression as well as a significant increase in overall survival with the R-CHOP regimen when 
compared to CHOP.  
On  the  basis  of  the  schedule  of  the  pivotal  trial,  the  recommendation  for  the  number  of  cycles  of 
therapy (8 cycles) was included in Section 4.2 “Posology and method of administration”.  
The  question  as  to  whether  6  or  8  cycles  should  be  recommended  was  an  issue  of  discussion  also 
during the first assessment of the indication. Patients in study LNH98-5/BO16368 were randomized to 
receive 8 cycles of CHOP or R-CHOP. As detailed in the study report, 72.4% of patients in the CHOP 
group and 79.7% of patients in the R-CHOP group received 8 cycles of study treatment. The complete 
response rate after cycle 8 was significantly higher with R-CHOP than with CHOP (76.2 vs. 62.4%) 
and  it  is  now  appropriate  to  recommend,  in  the  MabThera  SPC,  the  number  of  cycles  of  R-CHOP 
therapy that patients should receive. 
Efficacy update 
The  final  efficacy  analysis  included  all  399  randomized  patients  (197  CHOP,  202  R-CHOP), 
compared to 328 patients at the time of the interim analysis. It also reflects a longer median follow-up 
period of 31 months compared to a median of 12 months at the time of the interim analysis. The final 
efficacy  analysis  supports  the  significant  benefit  for  diffuse  large  B-cell  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma 
patients after 8 cycles of R-CHOP, compared to CHOP alone, seen at the time of the interim analysis. 
The  final  analysis  confirmed  that  R-CHOP  treatment  was  associated  with  a  clinically  relevant  and 
statistically significant improvement in the duration of event-free survival (p = 0.0001). Kaplan Meier 
estimates of the median duration of event-free survival (the primary efficacy parameter; where events 
were  death,  relapse  or  progression  of  lymphoma,  or  institution  of  a  new  anti-lymphoma  treatment) 
were 35 months in the R-CHOP arm compared to 13 months in the CHOP arm, representing a relative 
risk reduction of 41%.  
The  analysis  of  all  secondary  parameters  (response  rates,  progression-free  survival,  disease-free 
survival,  duration  of  response)  verified  the  treatment  effect  of  R-CHOP  compared  to  CHOP.  The 
complete response rate after cycle 8 was 76.2% in the R-CHOP group and 62.4% in the CHOP group 
(p=0.0028). The risk of disease progression was reduced by 46% and the risk of relapse by 51%. The 
two treatment groups were well balanced in baseline disease characteristics and disease status. In all 
patients  subgroups  (gender,  age,  age  adjusted  IPI,  Ann  Arbor  stage,  ECOG,  Beta  2  Microglobulin, 
LDH,  Albumin,  B-symptoms,  Bulky  disease,  extranodal  sites,  bone  marrow  involvement),  the  risk 
ratios  for  event-free  survival  and  overall  survival  (R-CHOP  compared  with  CHOP)  were  less  than 
0.83 and 0.95 respectively. R-CHOP was associated with improvements in outcome for both high- and 
low-risk patients according to age adjusted IPI. 
Data from the most recent analysis of overall survival (OS) with a median follow-up of approximately 
60  months  has  been  added  to  reflect  the  continuing  benefit  of  R-CHOP  over  CHOP  (p=0.0071,  log 
rank test). The risk of death was reduced by 32% in the R-CHOP group compared to the CHOP group. 
The  two  year  rates  for  overall  survival  were  68.8%  in  the  R-CHOP  arm  compared  to  57.9%  in  the 
CHOP arm. 
Section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic Properties” of the SPC was updated to reflect the final efficacy results 
of the study as detailed in the clinical report.  
Safety update 
The safety population in the study comprised 398 patients (196 CHOP, 202 R-CHOP); almost all of 
the R-CHOP patients received the full dose of rituximab at each treatment cycle.  
The overall safety profile of R-CHOP was consistent with the expected toxicity profile of CHOP, with 
the  added  infusion-related  reactions  (IRRs)  previously  described  with  rituximab.  There  was  no 
difference  between  the  groups  in  the  incidence  of  systemic  or  bacterial  infections  but  R-CHOP  was 
associated  with  an  increased  number  of  reports  of  herpes  zoster  infection.  There  were  also  more 
20/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reports  of  supraventricular  arrhythmias  and  tachycardia  in  the  R-CHOP  group  –  these  events  were 
infusion-related or occurred in patients with other predisposing events or diseases.  
Section  4.8 “Undesirable  effects” was  amended to reflect  the  safety data from the final  study report 
and to bring the presentation of information into compliance with SPC guidelines, as requested in the 
assessment report for the MA renewal. The table in the SPC now shows those grade 3 and 4 adverse 
reactions  occurring  in  a  higher  proportion  of  R-CHOP  patients  (2%  or  greater)  than  CHOP  patients 
and which are therefore likely to be attributable to the R-CHOP regimen. 
4. 2. 2   Clinical trial ECOG 4494 
ECOG  4494  is  a  similar  phase  III  trial  of  rituximab-CHOP  (R-CHOP)  vs.  CHOP  with  a  second 
randomisation  to  maintenance  rituximab  (MR)  or  observation  in  patients  60  years  of  age  and  older 
with  diffuse  large  B-Cell  lymphoma  (DLBCL)  conducted  in  the  US.  The  MAH  was  requested  to 
commit to submit an abstract and when the trial is completed the whole study report.  
Data presented in the abstract cannot be directly compared to the data from the GELA study due to  
- 
Differences  in  the  induction  dose  of  MabThera;  4-5  infusions  in  the  ECOG  trial  versus  8 
infusions in the GELA trial. 
Different  dosing  schedules;  in  the  ECOG  trial,  2  infusions  of  MabThera  were  given  before 
chemotherapy  and  then  given  with  every  other  cycle  of  chemotherapy.  In  the  GELA  trial, 
MabThera was given together with each of the chemotherapy cycles. 
- 
Differences  in  study  design;  the  second  randomisation  in  the  EGOC  trial  to  either  maintenance  or 
observation arm confounded the results of the first study part and made interpretation of data difficult. 
In the GELA trial, there was no second randomisation. 
4.3.  Rituximab in combination with CVP chemotherapy for previously untreated patients with 
stage III-IV follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). 
The  MAH  submitted  a  type  II  variation  application  for  extending  the  therapeutic  indication  of 
MabThera (rituximab) to include the use of rituximab in combination with CVP (cyclophosphamide, 
vincristine, prednisolone) chemotherapy for the treatment of previously untreated patients with stage 
III-IV follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL). 
4.3.1. Introduction 
Follicular  lymphoma  comprises  approximately  70%  of  the  low  grade  lymphomas.  Because  of 
the indolent nature of the disease with a median survival of 8-10 years, management of stage III 
and  IV  patients  ranges  from  an  initial  “watch  and  wait”  policy,  to  combination  chemotherapy 
and  bone  marrow  transplantation  depending  on  a  variety  of factors  including  stage  of  disease, 
age, and performance status.  
According to current treatment guidelines for newly diagnosed follicular lymphoma in the EU, 
European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) and   in  the  USA (National Cancer Institute), 
the  CVP  regimen  represents  one  of  several  first  line  treatment  options  for  stage  III  and  IV 
follicular  NHL.  However,  there  is  no  universally  accepted  standard  first  line  treatment,  the 
choice is largely based on physician preference and in the majority of cases the goal of treatment 
is to achieve a complete and durable remission. Hence,  many physicians believe that the  most 
efficacious  regimen  should  be  used  in  first  line  treatment  so  as  to  maximize  the  number  of 
patients  achieving  a  complete  response.  Moreover,  studies  have  indicated  that  achievement  of 
molecular remission, by eradication of cells bearing the bcl-2 rearrangement (present in 50% to 
70% of patients), may predict prolonged response in follicular NHL.  
Monotherapy with alkylating agents such as chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide has been a commonly 
used  first  line  treatment  option  for  many  years.  The  addition  of  vincristine  and  prednisolone  to 
cyclophosphamide may be a more effective combination regimen in terms of overall response rate and 
the frequency of complete remission, but survival has not been improved and durable remissions are 
extremely  rare.  More  intensive  anthracycline  containing  regimens  such  as  CHOP  have  not 
21/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated  a  survival  benefit  over  non  anthracycline  containing  regimens,  and  anthracycline-
induced cardiotoxicity is a serious drawback.  
The 86 Trial from the Groupe d’Etude des Lymphomes Folliculaires included patients with advanced 
stage and clinically aggressive follicular NHL1  showed that the addition of INF-α to a anthracycline 
containing  regimen  CHVP  (cyclophosphamide,  doxorubicin,  teniposide,  prednisone)  increased 
progression-freen  survival  (PFS)  and  overall  survival  as  compared  to  CHVP,  but  unfortunately,  the 
results have never been reproduced by other centres or cooperative groups and moreover the treatment 
is toxic. Despite these findings, the use of INF-α has not been widely adopted in clinical practice. 
The  experience  with  newer  cytostatics  in  newly  diagnosed  follicular  NHL  is  limited,  one  recent 
European  intergroup  comparative  trial  (Hagenbeck  et  al.)  of  fludarabine  vs.  standard  CVP 
(cyclophosphamide  750  mg/m2  iv  Day  1,  vincristine  1,4  mg/m2  iv  Day  1  (max.  2  mg),  and 
prednisolone  40  mg/m2  po  Days  1-5  every  4  weeks)    indicate  that  fludarabine  monotherapy  has 
comparable efficacy and safety profile to CVP. 
The optimal duration of treatment for follicular lymphoma is currently unknown. The results in terms 
of overall survival do not support that continuous treatment over several years has any advantage over 
intermittent  treatment  in  follicular  NHL.  The  continuous  relapsing  pattern  supports  the  use  of  short 
course therapy since no first-line treatment has proven curative or more effective in long-term control. 
Therefore, both acute and chronic toxicity of the therapy carry great weight when the type of therapy 
is to be selected. 
In  the  initial  pivotal  study  (102-05,  McLaughlin  P  et  al.)  ),  in  patients  with  relapsed  or  refractory 
follicular NHL, rituximab monotherapy demonstrated a 58% overall response rate (ORR), most of the 
responses being partial. The projected median time to disease progression in responding patients was 
13.0 months. The standard regimen with rituximab 375 mg/m2 once weekly for four doses was used in 
this study. 
Data from five monotherapy studies with rituximab in previously untreated patients are available. In 
previously untreated patients, even higher ORR have been reported, and also molecular responses as 
measured  by  PCR  for  the  bcl-2-JH  rearrangement  have  been  observed2  .  Time  to  progression  (TTP) 
depends  on  the  tumour  burden  at  entry.  Median  TTP  estimates  are  available  from  two  studies  in 
patients  with  relatively  low  tumour  burden  (M39006  Colombat  et  al.  and  the  North  Central  Cancer 
Treatment Group, Witzig et al.), the estimates being comparable (18.4 and 20 months, respectively). 
4. 3. 2   Clinical trial M39021 
One  single  study  (M39021,  Marcus  R  et  al)  provided  data  on  the  efficacy  of  the  R-CVP  regimen 
versus  standard  CVP  in  previously  untreated  patients  with  follicular  NHL.  Study  M39021  was 
conducted  in  accordance  with  current  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP)  standards.  Five  study  centres 
were audited during the randomisation phase of the study by the MAH. 
This  was  an  open-label  study.  Patients  were  randomised  on  a  1:1  basis  to  8  cycles  of  CVP 
(cyclophosphamide  750  mg/m2  i.v.  on  day  1;  vincristine  1.4  mg/m2  i.v.  (max.  2  mg)  on  day  1; 
prednisolone 40 mg/m2 p.o. on day 1 to 5) with or without rituximab 375 mg/m2 on day 1 of each 21-
day cycle. Dose modification for toxicity was conventional and in accordance with accepted criteria. 
Randomisation was stratified by center and International Prognostic Index (IPI)..  
The  IPI  index  uses  5  prognostic  factors  (age  >  60  years,  stage  III-IV,  LDH  >  normal,  ECOG 
performance  status  >  2,  >  1  extra-nodal  site).  After  the  start  of  the  study,  a  follicular  lymphoma 
specific system has been developed, the Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (FLIPI). 
The  FLIPI includes  5  prognostic factors  (Age > 60  years; Ann  Arbor stage III-IV; number  of nodal 
sites > 5; haemoglobin > 12g/dL; LDH:> normal). The resulting FLIPI ranges from 0 to 5 where 0-1 is 
categorised as good prognosis, FLIPI 2 is intermediate, and FLIPI 3-5 is poor prognosis. The FLIPI 
was used retrospectively to get a prognostic profile of the study population.  
1 J Clin Oncol 1998;16:2332-38 
2 Blood 2001;97:101-106 
22/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Eligibility criteria 
Patients > 18 years of age with previously untreated with CD20 positive follicular NHL (Ann Arbor 
Stage  III-IV)  were  included.  The  investigators’  diagnosis  of  follicular  lymphoma  (grades  1-3 
according  to  the  Revised  European  American  Lymphoma  (REAL)  classification),  was  confirmed 
centrally by a haematopathologist at the British National Lymphoma Investigation group (BNLI).  
Patients had to have bi-dimensionally lesions in at least one site that had not been irradiated, an ECOG 
performance status 0-2, a life-expectancy > 3 months with no need of immediate intervention to treat 
life-threatening complications. Patients with evidence of histologic transformation, WBC > 25 x109/L 
or evidence of NHL involving the CNS were excluded from participitation.   
Objectives 
The primary objective was to evaluate clinical efficacy (TTF) of repeated doses of rituximab in 
combination  with  CVP  in  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  CD20-positive  follicular  NHL  as 
compared with CVP alone. 
Secondary objectives included an evaluation of the following parameters: Overall response rate 
(CR and PR), overall survival at 3 and 5 years, time to new lymphoma treatment (NLT), duration 
of response, and disease-free survival. 
Finally, time to disease progression (TTP), which was not defined in the study protocol but was 
defined in the statistical analysis plan prior to database closure, was included as an exploratory 
parameter. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint was Time to treatment failure (TTF); treatment failure defined as any of the 
following five events, 1.disease progression, 2.relapse after response, 3.institution of new lymphoma 
treatment  during  or  after  the  randomised  treatment  phase,  4.stable  disease  after  cycle  4  (SD4)  or  5. 
death from any cause.  
TTF, as defined in study M39021, may be viewed as a non standard definition of TTF when compared 
with other clinical trials due to the inclusion  of stable disease  after cycle 4 (SD4). According  to the 
original  protocol,  patients  with  SD4  were  to  discontinue  trial  treatment.  This  was  not  followed 
consistently for all patients and the Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) assumed that patients 
with  SD4  were  more  likely to  continue  treatment  in  the  R-CVP  arm  whereas  those  in  the  CVP  arm 
were more likely to be withdrawn and start alternative treatment. Therefore, the DSMC recommended 
to  declare  SD4  a  treatment  failure  event  to  avoid  a  bias  in  the  analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy 
parameter  (Amendment  F  to  the  protocol).  To  make  the  data  from  this  study  comparable  to  other 
trials, time to disease progression (TTP - defined in the statistical analysis plan for the second interim 
analysis and the study prior to data base closure) was analysed as an exploratory parameter based on 
the recommendation of the DSMC. Full data enabling the determination of TTP was collected for all 
patients  in  the  study,  regardless  of  whether  a  patient  had  SD4  or  started  new  lymphoma  treatment 
(NLT). 
The  definition  of  response  criteria  to  assess  relapse  and  disease  progression  was  in  accordance  with 
the  Cheson  criteria3.  The  investigator’s  assessment  of  response  was  reassessed  by  an  independent 
committee. Tumour assessment were done during the pre-entry screening phase, after treatment cycle 
4  and  28  days  after  treatment  cycle  8.  Thereafter,  tumour  assessment  was  to  be  performed  every  6 
months during the first 3 years, and thereafter when clinically indicated.  
The  following  response categories were utilised:  Complete  remission  (CR), CR unconfirmed (CRu), 
partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), relapse from either CR or CRu, disease  progression from 
PR or non-response.   
Overall  survival  was  determined  from  the  date  of  randomisation  to  the  date  of  death  irrespective  of 
cause.  Duration  of  response  was  the  time  between  first  date  of  response  and  the  date  of  relapse  or 
death. Time to NLT or death was calculated from the date of randomisation. Disease-free survival was 
3 J Clin Oncol 1999;17:1244-53 
23/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
defined  as  the  interval  between  the  date  of  CR/CRu  and  the  date  of  disease  progression/relapse  or 
death. 
Sample size 
Sample size calculation was based on the assumption of a median TTF of 18 months in patients with 
low grade NHL treated with CVP. Hence in order to detect a 50% increase in median TTP (i.e. from 
18  to  27  months)  with  R-CVP,  318  patients,  randomised  1:1  between  the  two  treatment  groups 
recruited  over  2  years  and  followed  for  a  minimum  of  3  years,  would  provide  85%  power  at  a 
significance  level  of  5%  (two-sided)  to  detect  the  expected  difference  in  median  time  to  TTF 
(assuming  219  treatment  failures  by  this  time).  The  calculation  also  included  an  expected  20% 
exponential dropout rate throughout the recruitment period.  
Statistical methods 
Statistical  analysis  populations  prospectively  defined  in  the  study  protocol  were:  1)  All  randomised 
patients that received at least one dose of study medication (Intent-to-Treat principle); 2) The per protocol 
data  set  included  all  patients  that  received  at  least  4  cycles  of  randomised  treatment  unless  they  had 
disease progression or had died, and who adhered to the study protocol (evaluable patients); 3) The safety 
analysis set included all patients that received at least one dose of trial medication and a safety follow-up, 
whether withdrawn prematurely or otherwise.  
The final and primary analysis for the study report is based on the investigator response assessment with a 
data cut-off  date of January 31,  2003. An analysis based on the independent Committee (CEC) dataset 
with the same cut-off date as well as a provisional (snapshot) analysis with a later data cut-off (September 
24, 2003) are presented in support of the final analysis. 
The results submitted in this dossier are based on the data of the 2nd pre-planned interim analysis. It was 
estimated that by January 31, 2003, 165 (75%) of the 219 events needed for the final analysis would have 
been observed. Assuming that the interim analysis would have been done at that time, the nominal p-value 
would be 0.019509 for the second interim analysis and 0.044121 for the final analysis. In fact the second 
interim analysis was performed when 188 patients reported treatment-failure events, resulting a nominal 
p-value of 0.030988 for the second interim analysis and 0.041156 for the final analysis.  
After reviewing these data from the second formal interim analysis (median study observation time of 18 
months), the DSMC recommended that the study be stopped and the  data analysed in full. The DSMC 
considered that the results and conclusions would not change compared to an analysis when 219 patients 
had experienced a treatment-failure event.  
The results are analysed with the log-rank test and Cox regression models. 
4. 3. 3.  Results 
Patients participation and characteristics 
Thirteen patients on CVP and 6 on R-CVP discontinued study medication before treatment cycle 4 (in 
most cases due to insufficient clinical response). Moreover, 38 patients on CVP and 19 patients on R-
CVP discontinued between cycles 4 and 7, mainly due to having SD4. 
Treatment groups  were well balanced with respect to baseline characteristics (Table 1). Disease risk 
was considered low-intermediate to high-intermediate for 51% of patients according to the IPI (38 % 
IPI  2,  13%  IPI  3)  and  intermediate  to  high  risk  according  to  FLIPI  in  91%  of  patients  (42% 
intermediate, 49% poor). 
Table 1  
Key Baseline Characteristics (Study M39021) 
Median age (range) 
Stage III-IV 
Histology – Follicular NHL 
Grade 1 and 2 
Grade 3 
Elevated LDH 
B-symptoms 
Bulky disease 
CVP 
N=159 
53 (29 – 80) 
99% 
89% 
8% 
26% 
32% 
46% 
R-CVP 
N=162 
52 (27 – 79) 
99% 
90% 
9% 
26% 
40% 
39% 
24/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
An overview of the efficacy results are presented in tables 2, 3 and in figure 1 below.  
Table 2.  Summary of Overall Efficacy: Investigators’ Assessment - data cut-off 31.01. 2003 
Kaplan Meier Estimate of Median Time to 
Event (Months)a 
R-CVP 
Log-Rank p value 
CVP 
Risk 
Reduction
Primary Efficacy parameter 
Time to Treatment Failure 
Secondary Efficacy parameter 
Overall Survival 
Overall Tumor Response Rate (CR, CRu, 
PR)b 
CR, Cru Responseb 
Duration of Response 
Disease Free Survival 
Time to New Lymphoma Treatment 
Exploratory parameter 
Time to disease Progressive or death 
Robustness of Primary Analysis 
TTF ignoring SD4 
TTF in confirmed FL 
TTF in Per Protocol Population 
6.7 
25.9 
< 0.0001 
67% 
NE 
57% 
10% 
9.8 
NE 
12.3 
14.5 
9.2 
7.4 
7.5 
NE 
81% 
41% 
NE 
NE 
NE 
27.0 
27.0 
27.0 
25.9 
0.1854 
<0.0001** 
< 0.0001** 
< 0.0001 
0.1807 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
41% 
3.2c 
5.4c 
70% 
58% 
66% 
59% 
67% 
73% 
67% 
NE: not estimable. 
a Median observation time (from randomisation to either last contact or death) = 17.5 months for the CVP group and 17.8 
months for the R-CVP group. b Overall response and complete response rates are calculated from the tumor response as 
assessed at the end of trial treatment. c odds ratio. ** chi-square test. 
The most common reasons for treatment failure were relapse after initial response and SD4.  
Figure 1 Kaplan-Meier Plot of Time to Treatment Failure: as Assessed by the Investigator 
(Study M39021) 
Time to Treatment Failure (first of progressive disease, relapse after response, institution of new lymphoma 
treatment, SD4, or death by any cause) 
25/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The plot of Kaplan-Meier estimates of event free rates for disease progression (an exploratory analysis 
defined in the statistical analysis plan prior to the 2nd interim analysis) is shown in Figure 2.  
Figure 2 Kaplan-Meier Plot of Time to Disease Progression: as Assessed by the investigator 
(Study M39021) 
Time to Disease Progression 
(first of progression/relapse or death by any cause) 
The independent review of tumor response carried out by a Critical Event Committee CEC generally 
confirmed  the  results  of  the  final  analysis  (based  on  the  investigators’  assessment  of  response)  and 
demonstrated a similar magnitude of effect of R-CVP over CVP in terms of TTF, TTP and ORR (the 
analysis based on the investigators’ assessment was the main analysis for this study) (see Table 3).  
Table 3. Comparison of Efficacy between the Investigators’ and CEC’s Analyses  
Parameter 
Investigator Analysis (n = 321) 
CEC Analysis (n = 300) 
Kaplan-Meier 
estimate of 
Median Time to 
Event (Months) 
CVP  R-CVP 
57% 
6.7 
14.5 
81% 
25.9 
27.0 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Treatment 
Effect+ 
<0.0001** 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
3.2*** 
67% 
59% 
Kaplan-Meier 
estimate of 
Median Time to 
Event (Months) 
CVP  R-CVP 
43% 
3.0 
11.9 
77% 
14.7 
19.2 
ORR* 
TTF 
TTP 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Treatment Effect+ 
<0.0001** 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
4.5*** 
65% 
56% 
+ Treatment effect: For event free parameters, estimates were calculated by risk reduction; for tumor response, 
odd ratio was used.  TTF: time to treatment failure; *ORR: Overall response rate (CR, CRu, PR) was calculated 
from the tumour response as assessed at the end of trial treatment; ** chi-square test; *** odds ratio; TTP: Time 
to disease progression or death. 
The  results  of  the  final  analysis  are  supported  by  provisional  data  from  the  ‘snapshot’  analysis 
performed with a data cut-off date of September 24, 2003, which includes an additional 7 months of 
observation time (table 4). This confirms the interpretation made by the DSMC that the statistical and 
clinical relevance of the results would not change upon longer follow-up. 
26/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Comparison of TTF and TTP (Investigator Assessment) between the Final Analysis and 
the Snapshot analysis (data cut-off September 24, 2003) 
Parameter 
Final Analysis (n = 321) 
Kaplan-Meier 
estimate of 
Median Time to 
Event (Months) 
CVP  R-CVP 
6.7 
14.5 
25.9 
27.0 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Treatment 
Effect+ 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
67% 
59% 
TTF 
TTP 
Kaplan-Meier 
estimate of 
Median Time to 
Event (Months) 
R-CVP 
CVP 
27.0 
6.7 
30.1 
14.5 
 Snapshot Analysis (n = 321) 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Treatment Effect+ 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
67% 
58% 
+  Treatment  effect:    for  event  free  parameters,  estimates  were  calculated  by  risk  reduction;    TTF:  time  to 
treatment failure; TTP: Time to disease progression or death. 
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure 
A higher percentage of patients received 8 cycles of treatment in the R-CVP group (85%) compared 
with  the  CVP  group  (68%),  mainly  due  to  the  insufficient  therapeutic  response  with  CVP.  This 
resulted in a longer safety reporting period in the R-CVP group. Amongst the patients that received 8 
cycles  of  trial  treatment,  the  proportion  that  received  more  than  90%  of  the  planned  dose  of  all 
components  was  higher  in  the  CVP  group  (71%)  compared  with  the  R-CVP  group  (57%);  this  was 
mainly due to more patients on R-CVP having cyclophosphamide dose reductions due to neutropenia. 
There was no evidence that the addition of rituximab to CVP caused a delay between cycles. 
Adverse events 
There  were  no  unexpected  toxicities  with  R-CVP  treatment  in  study  M39021.  Adverse  events  with 
higher incidence in the R-CVP group were those already recognized as belonging to the safety profile 
of  rituximab  (rigors,  pyrexia,  influenza-like  illness,  pain,  chest  pain,  chest  tightness,  rash,  pruritus, 
urticaria, cough, dyspnoea, flushing, hypertension, hypotension, and neutropenia) as well as oral pain 
and  muscle  cramp.  There  was  no  evidence  of  an  imbalance  between  the  treatment  groups  for  any 
adverse  events  of  the  cardiac  or  nervous  systems,  or  for  infections  and  infestations.  Hematotoxicity 
was  modest  in  both  treatment  arms,  with  a  higher  incidence  of  neutropenia  in  the  R-CVP  arm. 
However, this difference may in part be accounted for by the longer safety reporting period in the R-
CVP group, due to patients completing more cycles of therapy. 
4. 3. 4. Discussion of efficacy 
The  addition  of  rituximab  to  a  well-established  chemotherapy  regimen  CVP  demonstrated  a  highly 
statistically  significant  improvement  in  TTF,  TTP,  and  ORR  when  compared  to  CVP  alone  in 
previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular NHL. 
The investigators’ assessment of response was confirmed by an analysis of response assessment data 
according to an independent review committee (CEC). The results submitted in the dossier are based 
on  the  data  of  the  2nd  pre-planned  interim  analysis.  This  interim  analysis  was  conducted  after  all 
patients  had  completed  randomised  trial  treatment.  The  difference  in  favour  of  the  R-CVP  arm  was 
large and the predefined statistical criterion for stopping the study was met. The observed difference in 
the “final analysis” seems to be maintained in the “snapshot analysis” with an additional 7 months of 
observation time. 
One  area  of  controversy  is  the  clinical  significance  of  a  prolonged  TTF/TTP  in  a  neoplastic  disease 
with  a  long  median  survival  and  a  pattern  of  multiple  treatable  relapses.  Although  the  results  are 
convincing  and  in  complete  agreement  with  the  current  CPMP  guideline  for  anticancer  medicinal 
products,  the  correlation  between  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  parameters  and  their  potential 
27/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impact on survival for patients with follicular NHL was debated. 
It  is  agreed  that  the  achievement  of  CR  is  the  single  most  important  prognostic  factor  in  follicular 
lymphoma regardless of the treatment regimen utilised. Evidence from clinical trials suggests there is 
a relationship between time-dependent efficacy endpoints and overall survival in follicular lymphoma. 
However,  in  a  chronic  disease  characterised  by  multiple  relapses  and  progressions  it  is  difficult  to 
assess  the  contribution  of  first-line  therapy  to  overall  survival  especially  due  to  the  influence  of 
multiple subsequent therapies. 
The  MAH  submitted  an  updated  analysis  of  study  M39021  with  a  median  follow-up  of  30  months 
which  has  demonstrated  a  continued  large  and  consistent  benefit  for  the  R-CVP  regimen  over  CVP 
across all primary and secondary efficacy parameters. In this updated analysis, the median TTP for R-
CVP  is  31.9  months  compared  with  14.5  months  for  CVP.  The  median  time  to  new  anti-lymphoma 
treatment (TNLT) has not been reached in the R-CVP arm and is 12.3 months for the CVP arm and 
was 13.5 months versus 35.0 months for duration of response. This large and durable benefit in TTP 
and  TNLT,  as  well  as  in  overall  response  rate  and  duration  of  response,  may  translate  into  an 
improvement  in  overall  survival  with  longer  follow-up.  The  update  of  the  efficacy  results  with  a 
median observation time of 30 months provides reassuring information. The superiority of the CVP-R 
compared with CVP as regards the time-dependent endpoints TTF/TTP and DR is maintained. Longer 
follow-up will be required for a more definite evaluation of the CVP-R regimen.  
The benefit of adding rituximab to CVP was seen consistently throughout the population recruited in 
study M39021 (randomized according to BNLI criteria (no versus yes), age ( ≤ 60 years, > 60 years), 
number  of  extra-nodal  sites  (0-1  versus  >1),  bone  marrow  involvement  (no  versus  yes),  LDH 
(elevated,  not  elevated),  β2-microglobulin  (elevated,  not  elevated),  B  symptoms  (absent,  present), 
bulky disease (absent, present), number of nodal sites (< 5 versus ≥ 5), hemoglobin ( ≤ 12 g/dL versus 
>12 g/dL), IPI (≤ 1 versus >1), and FLIP index (0-2 versus 3-5)).  
The  presence  of  constitutional  so-called  B-symptoms  is  not  the  only  trigger  for  initiating  therapy  of 
patients with follicular lymphoma. Bulky disease/number of regions involved as well as the patient’s 
acceptance of deferred treatment are other important factors in the decision process. Moreover, there is 
no universal agreement on when to use the wait and watch approach in asymptomatic patients. 
Taking into account the accepted clinical practice that only symptomatic follicular lymphoma patients 
should  be  treated  with  therapeutic  agents,  and  that  currently  the  major  goal  of  treatment  is  the 
alleviation  of  symptoms  since  there  is  no  globally  established  treatment  option  that  provides  a 
consistent survival benefit, it would have been appropriate to also include the effects of treatment on 
the alleviation of symptoms. The effect of treatment was only analysed for ECOG performance status 
and B-symptoms. At the request of the CPMP, the MAH provided additional analyses on the basis of 
the following criteria with potential impact on patient symptomatology 
• 
B-Symptoms: assessed during treatment phase and follow-up phase.  
• 
Performance status (ECOG): assessed during treatment phase and follow up phase. 
• 
Bulky disease: assessed during treatment phase but not follow-up phase. 
• 
>3 Nodal sites diameter > 3 cm: assessed during treatment phase but not follow-up phase. 
Based on these analyses, a numerical trend in favour of R-CVP is seen for all parameters analysed: B-
symptoms  (89%  improved  with  R-CVP  vs.  70%  improved  with  CVP  at  last  observation),  ECOG 
performance status (71% improved with R-CVP vs. 49% with CVP at last observation), nodal disease 
(>3  sites  >3  cm)  (84%  improved  with  R-CVP  vs.  69%  with  CVP  at  end  of  treatment),  and  bulky 
disease (62% with R-CVP vs. 44% with CVP at end of treatment). 
From  the  data  presented  by  the  MAH  it  is  clear  that  the  population  entered  in  Study  M39021  is 
representative for patients that most haematologists/oncologists would consider “requiring treatment”. 
The data also support the fact that symptomatic patients also benefit from a tumour response. 
The  choice  of  regimen of  8 cycles of  R-CVP was also  discussed. Since  8 cycles of  CVP as used  in 
study M39021 is regarded as a standard treatment option in previously untreated follicular lymphoma 
patients, this seems it is an appropriate control regimen to evaluate the efficacy of a new regimen. 
28/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore,  in  vitro  studies  demonstrated  synergistic  activity  between  rituximab  and  various 
cytotoxic agents and in order to take advantage of this, rituximab was given on the same day as the 
chemotherapy agents in each cycle. 
Apart  from  study  M39021,  another  trial  (investigator  initiated)  incorporating  an  R-CVP  regimen 
(U2094n,  Hainsworth  et  al.  2002-  conference  abstract)  has  provided  data  in  previously  untreated 
follicular  NHL  patients.  Patients  received  four  weekly  doses  of  rituximab  given  as  monotherapy 
followed by three cycles of R-CVP or R-CHOP. Results are not available for the individual treatment 
groups - R-CVP (25  patients) or  R-CHOP (60 patients). The MAH commits to provide results from 
study U2094n to the CPMP once publicly available. 
4. 3. 5. Discussion of safety 
New  safety  issues  have  not  emerged  from  the  assessment  of  this  variation  dossier.  Rituximab  can 
safely be combined with CVP as well as CHOP. 
Long-term safety data are not available. The observation for secondary neoplasias and cardiac events 
beyond 5 years is indicated for this group of patients with a median overall survival of up to 10 years. 
Follow-up data should be provided post-marketing. 
4. 3. 6. Benefit – risk assessment 
The overall benefit risk appears to be positive for the extension the indication.  
The  MAH  committed  to  submit  yearly  updates  with  regard  to  time  to  treatment  failure,  overall 
survival, duration of response, time to new anti-lymphoma treatment, disease-free survival, and time 
to disease progression to the CPMP during a follow-up period of up to 7 years. 
The MAH also committed to closely monitor the incidence of secondary neoplasias and cardiac events 
in the target group of patients as part of cumulative data review.  
5. 
Conclusion 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy and taking into consideration the 
outcome  of  the  ad-hoc  experts  meeting  on  clinical  issues  held  on  7  January  1998  and  the  oral 
explanations  provided  by  the  company  during  the  hearing  held  on  27  January  1998,  the  CPMP 
considered by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of MabThera was favourable in the indication of 
• 
treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma who are chemoresistant or are in 
their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy. 
The CPMP also considered the Type II variations for the extensions of the indication to be acceptable 
and agreed on the proposed wordings to be introduced into the Summary of Product Characteristics, 
and reflected into the Package Leaflet.  
The CPMP on 18 October 2001 adopted by consensus an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to 
the terms of the Community Marketing Authorisation of Mabthera for the indication.  
• 
treatment  of  patients  with  CD20  positive  diffuse  large  B-cell  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  in 
combination with CHOP chemotherapy. 
The CHMP adopted on 23 June 2004 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms of the 
Community Marketing Authorisation. 
• 
treatment  of  previously  untreated  patients  with  stage  III-IV  follicular  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma 
(NHL) in combination with CVP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisolone) chemotherapy. 
29/29 
                   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
