21 July2011 
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Matever  
International nonproprietary name: levetiracetam 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2024 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1 Background information on the procedure ............................................... 3 
.................................................................................. 3 
1.1 
...................................................... 4 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
Scientific discussion
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.2.1 
2.2.2 
2.2.3 
2.2.4 
2.2.5 
2.3 
2.3.1 
2.3.2 
2.4 
2.4.1 
2.4.2 
2.4.3 
2.4.4 
2.4.5 
2.4.6 
2.4.7 
2.5 
2.6 
Non- Clinical aspects
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
Introduction
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Introduction
Quality aspects
Introduction
Active Substance
Finished Medicinal Product
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects
............................................................................... 6 
..................................................................................................... 6 
................................................................................................. 6 
.................................................................................................. 6 
........................................................................................... 7 
............................................................................... 8 
......................................... 14 
.................... 14 
....................................................................................... 15 
................................................................................................ 15 
...................................................... 15 
............................................................................................... 15 
................................................................................................ 15 
......................................................................................... 16 
...................................................................................... 20 
............................................................................................ 20 
............................................................................ 20 
........................................................................ 21 
....................................................................... 21 
.......................................................................................... 21 
............................................................................................ 22 
Clinical Aspects
Introduction
Pharmacokinetics
Pharmacodynamics
Additional data
Post marketing experience
Discussion on Clinical aspects
Conclusions on clinical aspects
Pharmacovigilance
User consultation
3 
4 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 22 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 23 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 2/23 
 
 
 
 
1 Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Pharmathen S.A. submitted on 30 September 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Matever, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 28 April 2009  
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. . 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
 
 
as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
as adjunctive therapy:  
•in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
•in  the  treatment  of  myoclonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12  years  of  age  with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
 in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Keppra instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise.  
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation:  29 September 2000  
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation numbers:  
EU/1/00/146/001 
EU/1/00/146/002 
EU/1/00/146/003 
EU/1/00/146/004 
EU/1/00/146/005 
EU/1/00/146/029 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 3/23 
 
 
 
 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 250 mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Pharma SA 
  Date of authorisation:   29 September 2000  
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation numbers:  
EU/1/00/146/001 
EU/1/00/146/002 
EU/1/00/146/003 
EU/1/00/146/004 
EU/1/00/146/005 
EU/1/00/146/029 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Keppra 1000mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: UCB Belgium SA 
  Date of authorisation: 29 September 2000   
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
 Community Marketing authorisation numbers:  
 
EU/1/00/146/020 
EU/1/00/146/021 
EU/1/00/146/022 
EU/1/00/146/023 
EU/1/00/146/024 
EU/1/00/146/025 
EU/1/00/146/026 
  Member source: EL 
  Bioavailability study number: Study Code LVA-P5-042 
Scientific Advice  
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Dalibor Valik 
Co-Rapporteur: Pieter Neels 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 30 September 2010.  
The procedure started on 20 October 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 07 January 
2011. 
  During the meeting on 17 February 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 21 
February 2011. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 4/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 24 March 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 April 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 19 May 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 20 
June 2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 07 July 2011. 
  During the meeting on 18-21 July 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Matever on 21 July 2011. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 5/23 
 
 
 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Matever presented as film-coated tablets and concentrate for solution for infusion is a generic 
medicinal product of Keppra containing the active substance levetiracetam. 
The applicant initially applied also for the oral solution but withdrew this pharmaceutical form during 
the evaluation process.  
The reference medicinal product is Keppra as film-coated tablets, oral solution and concentrate for 
solution for infusion authorised on 29 September 2000. 
Levetiracetam is a chemical entity related to piracetam, a nootropic drug. Initial research was directed 
primarily towards indications where piracetam and piracetam-like compounds had shown to be of 
potential benefit (cognition, anxiety disorders). When the particular antiepileptic profile of the drug was 
recognised, its development was oriented towards epilepsy as a new indication in 1991. 
The precise mechanism of action by which levetiracetam confers seizure protection is unknown, but it 
appears to be unrelated to the mechanisms identified for current antiepileptic drugs. 
Bioequivalence to the reference product was demonstrated by one bioequivalence study at single dose 
under fasting conditions with the 1000 mg tablets. The studies were performed in healthy volunteers.  
The indication proposed for Matever is identical to the indication of the reference medicinal product, as 
follows:  
 
as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
 
as adjunctive therapy:  
o 
o 
o 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
The proposed products Matever 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg are immediate release film-coated 
tablets, and Matever 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion containing Levetiracetam as the 
active substance. The dosage forms have been developed as a generic product to the centrally 
authorized product Keppra containing the same active substance and the same pharmaceutical forms.  
The tablets are packed in PVC/PE/PVdC//Al blisters placed into cardboard boxes containing 10, 20, 30, 
50, 60, 80, 100, 120, 200 film-coated tablets.  
The concentrate for solution for infusion is packed in glass vial with bromobutyl rubber stopper and 
aluminium cap. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 6/23 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2  Active Substance 
Levetiracetam is a white to off-white crystalline powder, very soluble in water. It is also freely soluble 
in chloroform and methanol, soluble in ethanol and sparingly soluble in acetonitrile, and insoluble in n-
hexane. It is slightly hygroscopic presenting one single chiral centre leading to 2 optical isomers, 
where the active is the S-enantiomer. According to the synthetic process described in this application, 
the active substance is consistently obtained as the S-enantiomer and is routinely controlled with an 
enantiomeric purity test. Levetiracetam does not present polymorphism. 
Figure 1: Chemical structure of levetiracetam 
Manufacture 
The active substance levetiracetam has followed the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure.  
The Manufacturer of the active substance has submitted a complete ASMF and the Applicant’s part has 
been included in the dossier. 
The active substance is synthesised in two steps, the first step involving chemical reaction followed by 
a crystallization step.  
A full description of the manufacturing was provided in the restricted part of the ASMF. 
Confirmation of the chemical structure of levetiracetam was provided by elemental analysis, mass 
spectrum, 1H NMR, 13C NMR spectrometry, IR and UV spectrophotometry. The physicochemical 
properties have been determined using X-ray powder diffractometry (XRPD) and demonstrated the 
absence of polymorphism. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 7/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
Levetiracetam is described in the last edition of the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.). The Ph. Eur. 
monograph specifications have been implemented by both active substance and finished product 
manufacturers, where applicable, to control of the active substance.  
Adequate specification used by the finished product manufacturer includes the following parameters to 
be tested: description (visual), solubility, identification (IR and HPLC), specific optical rotation, water 
content, sulphated ash, heavy metals, assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), residual solvents 
(GC), chiral purity (R-isomer, HPLC), microbiological quality. 
Justification of the specification has been provided and the limits for the related substances and 
residual solvents do not raise any toxicological concern and comply with the ICH guidelines. 
Analytical methods used by the finished product manufacturer have been satisfactorily described and 
where needed validated in accordance with ICH requirements. 
Batch analysis data for three recent batches manufactured by both manufacturing sites using the 
current synthesis are presented. All batches comply with the specification. 
Stability 
Stability studies of three registration batches kept in the commercial packaging have been provided 
under ICH conditions long term (24 months at 25°C/60%RH) and accelerated (6 months at 
40°C/75%RH). The following parameters were tested: description, loss on drying, related substances, 
assay, R-isomer, levetiracetam acid and the analytical methods were those used for the control of the 
active substance. 
Forced degradation and photostability studies in line with ICH guidance have been conducted. Based 
on the results of assay and chemical purity it was concluded that levetiracetam was photostable. 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Film-coated tablets 
The film-coated tablets consist of 4 strengths: 250 mg, blue, oblong, biconvex film-coated tablets; 500 
mg, yellow, oblong, biconvex film-coated tablets; 750 mg, pink, oblong, biconvex film-coated tablets, 
1000 mg: white, oblong, biconvex film-coated tablets.  
The ingredients for the core tablets include: levetiracetam (active substance), calcium hydrogen 
phosphate dehydrate (diluent), cellulose microcrystalline (diluent), crospovidone type A (disintegrant), 
hydroxypropylcellulose (binder). 
For the film-coating of the 250 mg the ingredients are: Opadry 02H20569 (blue): hypromellose 
(E464), titanium dioxide (E171), talc, propylene glycol (E1520), indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132), 
sunset yellow FCF aluminium lake (E110), quinoline yellow aluminium lake (E104). 
For the film-coating of the 500 mg the ingredients are: Opadry 20J22730 (yellow): hypromellose 
(E464), titanium dioxide (E171), hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463), propylene glycol (E1520), quinoline 
yellow aluminium lake (E104), sorbic acid (E200), sorbitan monooleate (E494), vanillin. 
 For the film-coating of the 750 mg the ingredients are: Opadry OY-S-33016 (orange): hypromellose 
(E464), indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132), sunset yellow FCF aluminium lake (E110), iron oxide 
red (E172), macrogol/PEG 4000, titanium dioxide (E171). 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 8/23 
 
 
 
For the film-coating of the 1000 mg the ingredients are: Opadry OY-LS-28908 (II white): hypromellose 
(E464), lactose monohydrate, macrogol/PEG 4000, titanium dioxide (E171). 
The tablets are packed in PVC/PE/PVdC//Al blisters. 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
The concentrate for solution for infusion is a clear, colorless, sterile solution (500 mg/ 5 ml), free from 
foreign particles. 
The product contains levetiracetam as the active substance and the following excipients: sodium 
chloride, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate and water for injection. 
The concentrate for solution for infusion is packed in a transparent 7 ml type I glass vial with rubber 
stopper and aluminium flip cap. The vials are packed in cardboard boxes with 10 vials inside.  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Film-coated tablets 
The tablets have been developed with the objective of developing a conventional release film coated 
tablets bioequivalent with the innovator’s product Keppra tablets.  
Compatibility studies were performed to ensure that the active substance does not degrade in the 
presence of the excipients being together in the core. Results of HPLC analysis did not show interaction 
between the active substance and the excipients and this was further confirmed by stability data of the 
finished product.  
Due to the high content of levetiracetam in the tablets the bulk has limited flow properties, thus wet 
granulation was chosen for the manufacturing process. Thermal behaviour, compression characteristics 
were investigated and the product shows degradation under light, heating, acid, alkaline or oxidative 
treatment. 
Standard common excipients have been chosen for the tablets. All excipients are pharmacopoeial 
excipients. Only for some colorants used for the coating in-house specification has been proposed. No 
novel or unusual excipients were used. 
The formulation development was satisfactorily described. Compared to the innovator formula, starch 
maize was replaced with calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate due to its better compressibility. 
Sodium starch glycolate was included as a disintegrant to have the optimum properties. The binder 
was hydroxypropylcellulose and its choice was extensively explained.  
The development of discriminative dissolution method (to the changes of the product formulation) has 
been described. The development was based on Keppra 1000 mg. The media tested were 0.1 N HCl, 
buffer pH 4.5, buffer pH 6.8, water. The results showed that the product is highly soluble in all media; 
finally 0.1 N HCl was selected as the dissolution medium in order to simulate the gastric environment 
in which the tablet is diluted when administered. Dissolution profiles of three batches of Matever 1000 
mg confirmed the adequacy of the method.  
Dissolution profiles of the bio-batch and several batches of the tested product and the reference 
products from different European countries have been submitted. The dissolution profiles of tested and 
reference products 250 mg, 1000 mg and of tested products 250, 500, 750, 1000 mg were similar in 
all three media (more than 85% within 15 min). The dissolution was found pH dependent; however, 
taking into account the results from dissolution studies and bioequivalence study, this has no major 
impact on the in vivo performance of the finished product.  
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 9/23 
 
 
 
A Biowaiver has been accepted for the 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg strengths: All strengths are 
manufactured by the same process, the core composition is proportionally linear, the PK is linear in the 
therapeutic range, and the dissolution profiles of all strengths in the three media were very rapid. 
Therefore the biowaiver for the lower strengths was accepted.  
The impurities profile of Keppra from different European Countries has been compared with Matever for 
all strengths and showed similar results.  
The Bioequivalence Study for the 1000 mg strength can be found in detail in the Clinical section. 
The choice of the container was a white opaque PVC/PE/PVDC combined with aluminium foil blisters. 
The packaged product was tested on acceptability in accelerated and long term stability. 
Oral solution 
In the initial application, an oral solution was developed for patients who cannot swallow film-coated 
tablets and for younger paediatric patients to ensure acceptability and flexibility of dosage. During the 
evaluation procedure, the CHMP requested additional syringes used for the administration of the oral 
solution and data on the accuracy of the syringes, as well as more information on impurities for the 
active substance. The applicant decided not to go ahead with this pharmaceutical form and decided to 
withdraw the oral solution before the Opinion. This was accepted. 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
The concentrate for solution for infusion has been developed with the objective of developing a 
pharmaceutical form similar to the innovator’s product Keppra concentrate for solution for infusion  
The formulation development was based on the originator, and Matever contains the same excipients 
(qualitatively) as in Keppra parenteral formulation. 
Matever has been compared with Keppra from several Member states, and similar results were found 
for impurities, assay, enantiomeric purity and osmolality, specific gravity, pH.  
The manufacturing process has been adequately described. 
The choice of the container was a transparent 7ml type I glass vial, sealed with a rubber stopper and 
aluminium flip cap. The package was tested on acceptability and during long term stability.  
Compatibility study of Matever concentrate in Dextrose 5%, Lactated Ringer solution and in NaCl 0.9 
%, all in PVC bags has been provided.  
Furthermore the compatibility study of Matever concentrate in the same solutions stored at 2 – 8 °C  
for 24 hours has been carried out. Testing was for appearance, color of solution, pH, particulate 
matter, assay and related substances. Results showed that Matever diluted in each of the parenteral 
solutions stored at room conditions 2 - 8 °C is stable for at least 24 hours. 
Adventitious agents 
Film-coated tablets 
All excipients used comply with the provisions of Commission Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and 
with Chapter "5.2.8. Minimizing the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via 
human and veterinary medicinal products" of the Ph. Eur. 
BSE/TSE Statements for the excipients are provided in Module 3.2.R. The products do not contain and 
are not derived from any category A or B as defined in the TSE guideline (EMEA/410/01 rev.2) 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 10/23 
 
 
 
Opadry white contains lactose monohydrate considered a category C material which indicates no 
detectable infectivity. The lactose has been prepared according to the description given in 
EMEA/CPMP/571/02 with no risk anticipated. This is acceptable. 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
All excipients used for the concentrate for solution for infusion comply with the provisions of 
Commission Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and with Chapter "5.2.8. Minimizing the risk of 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products" 
of the Ph. Eur. BSE/TSE Statements for the excipients are provided in Module 3.2.R.  
Manufacture of the product 
Film-coated tablets 
The manufacturing process for the film-coated tablets can be summarized as follow  and considered as 
standard: weighing and sieving of the raw materials, mixing with internal phase excipients, wet 
granulation, drying of the granulate, second mixing with the external phase ingredients, compression, 
coating, packaging.  
Satisfactory flow-chart with In-Process Controls (IPCs) of the manufacturing process has been 
included. In addition, the narrative description of the process has been provided and includes such 
details as sieve opening sizes, temperatures, blending times etc. The list of IPCs  such as compression, 
coating, packaging performed during the manufacture of the film-coated tablets has been provided. It 
contains satisfactory details such as tested parameters, methods used, limits and frequency of testing. 
A satisfactory validation study has been provided for three pilot batches of Matever 250, 500, 750, 
1000 mg film-coated tablets. The validation protocol proposed for the full scale batches has been 
provided and the quality of the production batches will be evaluated through the results of in process 
testing as well as the results of finished product testing. 
All excipients employed in the manufacture of the tested product comply with the requirements of the 
relevant Ph. Eur. Monograph except for the coating agents which are controlled according to in-house 
specifications. The colorants comply with the EC Directive on colorants to be used in foodstuffs 
95/45/EC as amended. 
The compendial methods are applied for the tests described in the Ph. Eur. monograph. Validations of 
the analytical methods employed are not required. Description and validation of in-house methods 
have been provided in line with ICH requirements.  
The pharmacopoeial specifications do not require any justification since the excipients are used in an 
usual dosage form and in widely used function. Satisfactory Certificates of analysis have been 
provided.  
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
The manufacturing process can be summarized with the following steps: Weighing of raw materials and 
Volumetric determination of water for injection, Preparation of the Levetiracetam solution, aseptic 
filtration, filling and sealing of the vials, final sterilization. Satisfactory flow-chart with In-Process 
Controls of the manufacturing process including tests such as appearance, filter integrity, and pH has 
been included: 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 11/23 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the narrative description of the process has been provided and includes details such as 
cleaning times and pressure, temperatures. The sterilization process is performed in an autoclave. The 
product is end sterilized at 121˚C for 20mins in the presence of a sterilization indicator. Filter 
validation data as well as steam sterilization validation are submitted. The list of process controls 
performed during the manufacture of the concentrate has been provided. It contains satisfactory 
details such as tested parameters, methods used, limits and frequency of testing.  
The validation of the manufacturing process has been evaluated on three consecutive production scale 
batches. The quality of the production batches was evaluated through the results of in process testing 
as well as the results of finished product testing. The validation protocol was enclosed in the dossier. 
All excipients employed comply with the requirements of the relevant Ph. Eur. monograph.  
The compendial methods were applied for the tests described in the Ph. Eur. monograph. Therefore 
validations of the analytical methods employed were not required 
The pharmacopoeial specifications do not require any justification, as the excipients are used in an 
usual dosage form and in widely used function. Satisfactory Certificates of analysis of all excipients 
have been provided. 
Product Specification  
Film-coated tablets 
The proposed release and shelf life specifications include the following parameters: appearance 
(visual), identification (UV and HPLC), average mass (PhEur. 2.9.5), uniformity of mass (PhEur. 2.9.5), 
uniformity of dosage units (mass variation PhEur 2.9.40), loss on drying (PhEur.2.2.32), hardness 
(Ph.Eur.), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), disintegration 
(Ph.Eur. 2.9.1), dissolution (in-house method), identification of colorants (in-house method),  microbial 
contamination (PhEur 2.6.12, 2.6.13), residual solvents (GC), blister tightness (visual), packaging 
(visual).  
The release and shelf life limits of the active substance content are in line with batch and stability data. 
The limits for microbial contamination are in line with Ph Eur requirements for solid per orally 
administered products and accepted. Limits for related substances and residual solvents are in line 
with ICH limits and do not raise any specific toxicological concern. 
The analytical methods were adequately detailed and the non-compendial methods were validated in 
accordance with ICH guidelines. 
Batch data were provided for three batches of each strength. All presented batches comply with the 
proposed specifications and demonstrate consistent manufacture.  
The primary packaging is a blister consisting of white PVC/PE/PVdC foil and aluminium foil. Blisters are 
packed in cardboard cartons. 
The bulk tablets are packed in double PE bags in opaque plastic container protected from light. 
The specifications for both parts of blisters have been provided and are satisfactory. The test methods 
have been described and acceptable certificates of analysis are provided. The copies of IR spectra for 
materials have been provided 
The blister components comply with the actual requirements of the Ph. Eur., the Commission Directive 
relating to plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs and relevant EU 
regulations. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 12/23 
 
 
 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
The proposed release and shelf life specifications include the following parameters: appearance 
(visual), foreign particles (visual), average volume and volume variation (Ph.Eur), pH (Ph.Eur), 
osmolality (Ph.Eur), specific gravity (Ph.Eur), osmolality (Ph.Eur), identification (UV and HPLC), assay 
(HPLC),  related substances (HPLC), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph.Eur. 
2.9.40), particulate contamination (2.9.19), sterility (Ph.Eur. 2.6.1), endotoxin test (Ph.Eur. 2.6.14), 
air/water tightness. 
The proposed specifications at release and end of shelf life are generally acceptable. The release and 
shelf life limits of the active substance content are in line with batch and stability data. Sterility and 
bacterial endotoxin tests are in line with Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Description and validation of the methods are acceptable.  
Batch data were provided for three production-scale batches. The results complied with the proposed 
specifications and demonstrate consistent manufacture.  
Matever concentrate is packed in 7 ml, type I transparent glass vial complying with Ph. Eur. 
requirements on high hydrolytic resistance suitable for use in parenteral preparation. The vials are 
sealed with bromobutyl rubber stopper 20 mm (type I of Ph. Eur. 3.2.9) and an aluminium flip cap 
20 mm.  
The specifications for vial, rubber stopper and cap have been provided and are satisfactory. The test 
methods have been described and acceptable certificates of analysis are provided. It was confirmed 
that elastomeric closures (bromobutyl compound with silicate filler and inorganic colouring system) do 
not contain PVC. Elution test of stoppers has been performed with acceptable results. 
The plastic container components comply with the actual requirements of the Ph. Eur., the Commission 
Directive relating to plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs and 
relevant EU regulations, where applicable. The copies of IR spectra for materials have been provided. 
Stability of the product 
Film-coated tablets 
Stability studies were carried out on three batches of each strength in line with ICH guidelines. The 
product was tested under long-term conditions (36 months at 25°C / 60% RH), intermediate 
conditions (36 months at 30°C / 65% RH) and accelerated conditions (6 months at 40°C / 75% RH). 
The product was kept in the commercial blister packaging. 
The results of the following tests were submitted: appearance, identification, average mass, hardness, 
loss on drying, assay, related substances, disintegration, dissolution, microbial contamination, 
tightness of blister.  
The analytical methods were identical to the methods proposed for routine testing of the finished 
product. The methods for assay and related substances were proven during their validations as 
stability-indicating.  
During the stability studies the product did not show any significant change in the quality. 
All the results remained well within the specification limits during all the stability studies.  
Results for bulk stability studies of all strengths were also acceptable. The Bulk shelf life of 6 months is 
acceptable when stored below 25 °C. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 13/23 
 
 
 
Forced degradation study data show that the product is not sensitive to light or moisture in the 
commercial package.  
Based on the data, the shelf life when used in the conditions defined in the SmPC can be accepted  
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Stability studies were carried out on three production-scale batches of Levetiracetam concentrate kept 
in the commercial packaging. The studies were conducted under ICH conditions namely under long-
term conditions (12 months at 25°C / 60% RH), intermediate conditions (12 months at 30°C / 65% 
RH), accelerated conditions (6 months at 40°C / 75% RH) 
The analytical methods used for the stability studies were identical to the methods proposed for routine 
testing of the finished product as mentioned section 3.2.P.5.1. The methods for assay and related 
substances were proven during their validations as stability-indicating. The following tests were 
investigated: Appearance, identification, pH, average volume, optical control, specific gravity, 
osmolality, assay of levetiracetam, related substances, enantiomeric purity, air/water tightness of 
vials, endotoxin test, sterility and particulate contamination.  
An in-use stability study for 24 hours has been performed after first opening for dilution. It was 
concluded that the results of the in-use stability testing remain within the proposed limits for the 
control tests and the Levetiracetam concentrate are therefore found to be stable.  
The shelf-life is accepted when used in the conditions defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Levetiracetam is described in the last edition of the European Pharmacopoeia. Where applicable, 
specifications applied by both the active substance and the finished product manufacturers are in-line 
with the monograph.  
The pharmaceutical development of the formulation, the manufacturing process, control of the active 
substance and the finished product have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in 
accordance with relevant CHMP and ICH guidelines. The manufacturing flow-chart was provided with 
suitable in-process controls. The manufacturing process is adequately validated at pilot scale at the 
proposed manufacturing site and a validation protocol has been presented. 
The routine specifications and tests methods proposed for the finished product will adequately control 
the quality of the finished product. Analytical methods were adequately described and validated in 
agreement with relevant guidelines.  
Batch analyses showed that the finished product meets the specifications proposed.  
The container-closure systems for both pharmaceutical forms were found to be suitable to ensure the 
quality of the finished product as confirmed by the stability data.  
The stability studies comply with the ICH stability guideline. The control tests and specifications for the 
finished product were adequately established. 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished products 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 14/23 
 
 
 
conclusion that the medicinal product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, all quality issues have been resolved. 
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided for 
both pharmaceutical forms (film coated tablet and concentrate for solution for infusion), which is based 
on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Matever manufactured by Pharmathen S.A. considered unlikely to result in any 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all Levetiracetam containing products and the 
exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not 
increased. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This is an abridged application for film-coated tablets and concentrate for solution for infusion 
containing Levetiracetam. To support the marketing authorisation application for the film-coated 
tablets, the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting 
conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. No studies have been conducted with 
the concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of Levetiracetam based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Exemption  
Film-coated tablets 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 15/23 
 
 
 
Four different strengths of Levetiracetam tablets (250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg, 1000 mg) have been 
developed by the MAH. The application for all the dosage strengths is based on one bioequivalence 
study with Matever 1000 mg film-coated tablets. 
This approach is considered acceptable as all the conditions set forth in section 4.1.6. of the Guideline 
on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 are fulfilled:  
a) Matever tablets are manufactured by the same manufacturing process, 
b) The qualitative composition of Matever tablets is the same for all strengths included in the 
marketing authorization application, 
c) The ratio between the amounts of excipients is similar for all strengths included in the marketing 
authorization application, 
d) Dissolution profiles are similar under identical conditions for the additional strengths and the 
strengths of the batches used in the bioequivalence study. 
e) Levetiracetam has shown to display linear pharmacokinetics over therapeutic range 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
One strength of Levetiracetam 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion (500mg/5ml) has been 
developed by the MAH. No formal bioequivalence study was submitted and a biowaiver was requested. 
This approach is considered acceptable as it is in line with conditions set forth in the Guideline on the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1.: 
a) Matever concentrate for solution for infusion is a parenteral solution 
b) Pharmaceutical equivalence testing has illustrated that Matever concentrate for solution for infusion 
is essentially similar to the reference product, Keppra 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
(500mg/5ml), in terms of the active content and assay of related substances. 
Clinical studies 
Film-coated tablets 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 1 bioequivalence study:  
  Study LVA-P5-042 is a single dose (under fasting conditions) trial. This study has investigated 
the 1000 mg strength. 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Not applicable 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
The study was a single centre, randomised, single dose, laboratory-blinded, two-period, two-
treatment, two-sequence, crossover study, performed under fasting conditions in healthy volunteers 
(males and females).  
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 16/23 
 
 
 
Each subject received a single dose of respective formulation in each period with 240 ml of water after 
an overnight fast. Each treatment was administered once according to a randomisation list. 
Standardised meals were served during each study phase.  
The minimum wash-out period was 7 days.  
Blood samples were collected predose (0), and up to 36 hours after drug administration at 0.17, 0.33, 
0.5, 0.67, 0.84, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3,  4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 24 and 36 hours post-dose in K3 EDTA 
Vacutainers. After centrifugation, the plasma samples were transferred into the labelled polypropylene 
tubes in two splits and frozen on dry ice, than stored at -20ºC until sent to the laboratory for assay. 
The clinical part of the study was performed from 22.10.2005 to 31.10.2005 a Clinical Research 
Organisation (CRO) in Canada (clinical part and analytical part). 
Statement of compliance with GCP and GLP is presented. 
Study was approved on 15 Sep 2005 by the Ethical committee composed according to the ICH 
standards. 
The study itself has not been inspected, however, the clinical and analytical sites were inspected by EU 
authorities: by AFSSAPS in November 2003 and by MHRA in October 2007 respectively. No critical 
findings were found, 
The CHMP considers that the design of the study is appropriate. The wash out period satisfies criteria 
of at least 5-times the half life (T1/2 being ca 7h), thus it is sufficient; the sampling time schedule is 
deemed adequate in order to estimate Levetiracetam PK parameters.  
Test and reference products  
Matever 1000 mg film coated tablet manufactured by Pharmathen S.A. (batch No. 078025…, 
manufacturing date 10/2005) has been compared to Keppra 1000 mg film coated tablet manufactured 
by UCB Pharma S.A., Belgium (Batch No: 0000005264, exp. Date 03/2008). 
The CHMP considers that Keppra 1000 mg film coated tablet, the reference product, is the appropriate 
choice, since it is a well known medicinal product authorised within EU comunity.  
The certificates of analysis for both the test and reference products were presented. The batch size of 
the test product was declared and considered adequate. The dose (1000 mg) corresponds to the 
highest strength applied for.  
Population studied   
Thirty-two (28 + 4 alternates) healthy, non-smoker/ex-smokers or light smokers (no more than 10 
cigarettes per day), male and female subjects were randomized into the study. No subject dropped out 
from the study.  
Thus, thirty-two (32) subjects completed both study periods. 
In accordance with the protocol, only the samples of the first 14 subjects assigned to each sequence of 
drug administration (i.e.: 28 subjects) were analysed and included in the PK evaluation. 
Mean age (± SD) of the thirty two subjects (17 men and 15 women) was 34 ± 10 years; mean height 
168.2 ± 8.4 cm; mean weight 68.8 ± 9.1 kg; and mean BMI 23 ± 2 kg/m2.   
All subjects were Caucasians (Caucasoid). 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 17/23 
 
 
 
One subject required the dosage of concomitant medication (acetaminophen) during the course of the 
study because of adverse event. Six female subjects used a systemic hormonal contraception during 
the study. 
Protocol deviations documented during the study are presented. The most frequent deviation was that 
in sampling time; deviations greater than 2 minutes were adjusted to reflect actual sampling time. 
The CHMP considers that the study population was chosen according to the scientific guidelines and the 
sample size is found adequate. 
All subjects were judged eligible for enrolment in this study, based on medical and medication 
histories, demographic data, vital signs measurements, physical examination, and clinical laboratory 
tests. The inclusion and exclusion criteria were acceptable.  
No clinically significant changes in levetiracetam pharmacokinetics based on sex, race and smoking 
status has been observed in the literature. The test conditions were sufficiently standardized in order 
to minimize the variability of all factors involved.  
There were several deviations from the protocol, which can be considered as minor with no impact on 
the study validity. The concomitant medication is considered to have no significant influence on 
levetiracetam pharmacokinetics. 
Analytical methods 
The bioanalytical part of the study was done at a Clinical Research Organisation (CRO) in Canada. 
Plasma concentrations of levetiracetam were determined using HPLC/MS/MS method. 
The validation is declared to be performed on three HPLC systems (LC/MS/MS02, LC/MS/MS03, 
LC/MS/MS05). Zidovudine was used as the internal standard (IS). 
Linearity was demonstrated within the calibration range as well as accuracy and precision. 
Acceptable performance was shown at the limit of quantification. 
Six batches of human plasma were used to prove acceptable matrix effect.  
Dilution integrity was demonstrated for a dilution factor of 5 (with blank plasma). 
Stability in plasma was shown for three freeze-thaw cycles as well as for 18.4 hour on bench-top (22 
ºC), and long-term stability in plasma at -20ºC was shown for 92 days.  
Statement of compliance with GLP, protocol and SOP is presented. 
From expected 1280 samples (excluding replicates), 1278 were received (2 samples were missed blood 
draw). Samples from 4 alternates (160 samples) were not subject to analysis as predefined in the 
protocol. Therefore, 1118 samples were analyzed. 
Plasma concentrations of levetiracetam were determined by the above mentioned validated method in 
four HPLC systems (LC/MS/MS01, LC/MS/MS09, LC/MS/MS11, LC/MS/MS12).  
A total of sixteen calibration curves for acceptable calibration curves were presented. The correlation 
coefficients were ≥0.9902. Between batch precision and accuracy of the calibration standards ranged 
from 2.8 % to 4.9% and 96.7% to 103.5%, respectively. The calibration range was from 0.250 to 
50.000 mcg/ml of levetiracetam. 
Back-calculated mean accuracy and precision of QC samples from all accepted analytical batches in the 
study ranged between 102.6% to 105.1% and 8.6% to 9.3%, respectively.  
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 18/23 
 
 
 
Ten samples were reanalysed out of the 1118 analysed study samples (0.9%). Four samples were 
above upper limit of quantification, six samples lost in processing. No sample was repeated because of 
pharmacokinetic reason. 
The maximum sample storage period was of 31 days. 
The CHMP considers that the analytical method has been adequately described and validated, and 
satisfactory method performance during study sample analysis was demonstrated. The analytical 
method is considered acceptable Long term stability data in human plasma covers maximum storage 
period of samples. LOQ 0.250 mcg/ml represents approximately 0.83% of Cmax values, this is 
considered adequate.  
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were observed or calculated for levetiracetam: AUCt, AUC∞, 
Cmax, AUCt/∞, Tmax, Kel, and T½.  
Primary variables were considered AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and C max.   
The CHMP considers that the pharmacokinetic parameters calculated are justified,  
Statistical methods   
Based on published data, the intra-subject coefficients of variation of about 21% and 10% were 
considered for Cmax and AUC, respectively. Thus, with these expected coefficients of variation and an 
expected ratio of AUC and Cmax within 92.5% and 107.5%, the study should have a power of at least 
80% to show bioequivalence with 27 subjects. In order to account for possible dropouts, 28+4 
subjects were included in the study. 
Statistical and pharmacokinetic analyses are declared to be generated using Kinetic, an application 
developed at Algorithme Pharma and SAS (version 9.1.3 or higher) using ProcMix. 
ANOVA was carried out on ln-transformed AUCt, AUC∞, Cmax values and non transformed Kel, and T½ 
values. The treatment, sequence and period were included in the model as fixed effect; a random 
factor was also added for the subject effect (nested in sequence). 
Non parametric test was performed on Tmax.  
Criteria for conclusion of bioequivalence: 
As declared in the protocol, for claiming bioequivalence, the 90% geometric confidence intervals of the 
ratio (T/R) of least-squares means from the ANOVA of ln-transformed AUCt, AUC∞ and Cmax should 
fall within 80%-125% limits.  
The CHMP finds the statistical methods appropriate for a single dose study. Standard bioequivalence 
criteria are proposed for AUC0-t and C max.  
Results 
Twenty-eight (28) subjects were included in the final statistical data set, four (4) alternates has not 
been analysed and included, in accordance with the protocol.  
Levetiracetam pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax 
median, range) 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 19/23 
 
 
 
Treatment 
AUC 0-t 
g/ml/h 
AUC 0-∞ 
g/ml/h 
C max 
g/ml 
tmax 
h 
Test 
260.668 
270.377 
31.147 
1.00 
Reference 
263.552 
272.936 
31.301 
0.92 
T1/2 
h 
7.25 
7.18 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
98.67 
98.90 
100.14 
CV (%) 
6.59 
6.25 
17.59 
AUC 0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC 0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
C max   maximum plasma concentration  
T max  
T 1/2  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
Safety data 
No deaths or serious adverse event was reported during this study.  
There were sixty (60) adverse events considered as mild or moderate reported by twenty-four (24) of 
the thirty-two (32) subjects who received at least one dose of the study medication (safety 
population). 
Eighteen (18) subjects who received test preparation reported thirty-four (24) adverse events. 
Fourteen (14) subjects who received reference preparation and reported twenty-six (26) adverse 
events with the reference product. 
The most commonly reported adverse events were somnolence, dizziness, headache and nausea. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Matever 1000 mg film coated tablet is considered 
bioequivalent with Keppra 1000 mg film coated tablet. 
The results of study LVA-P5-042 with 1000 mg formulation CAN be extrapolated to the lower strengths 
750 mg, 500 mg and 250 mg, according to conditions in the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4  Additional data 
Not applicable. 
2.4.5  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 20/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.6  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
The results of one bioequivalence study have been presented. The study was a single centre, 
randomised, single dose, laboratory-blinded, two-period, two-treatment, two-sequence, crossover trial, 
performed under fasting conditions in healthy volunteers (males and females).  
Each subject received a single dose of respective formulation in each period with 240 ml of water after 
an overnight fast. Each treatment was administered once according to a randomisation list. 
Standardised meals were served during each study phase.  
The minimum wash-out period was 7 days.  
The ratios and 90% CI of AUCt, AUC∞, Cmax ln-transformed values are within the limits of 80-125% 
as predefined, moreover, they are inside narrower limits of 90 - 111%. 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Matever 1000 mg film coated tablet is considered 
bioequivalent with the reference product Keppra 1000 mg film coated tablet. 
The CHMP considered that as Matever 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion (500mg/5ml) is 
similar to Keppra 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion (500mg/5ml) with regard to content 
of active substance and excipients, a formal bioequivalence study is not necessary, in accordance with 
the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  
2.4.7  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the CHMP considers that Matever 1000 mg film coated 
tablet is bioequivalent with Keppra 1000 mg film coated tablet. 
The results of study LVA-P5-042 with 1000 mg formulation can be extrapolated to the lower strengths 
750 mg, 500 mg and 250 mg, according to conditions in the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1, section 4.1.6. 
The CHMP considered that as Matever 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion (500mg/5ml) is 
similar to Keppra 100mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion (500mg/5ml) with regard to content 
of active substance and excipients, a formal bioequivalence study is not necessary, in accordance with 
the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 30 November 2011. 
The PSUR of the reference medicinal product is on a yearly cycle. The PSUR submission schedule 
should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 21/23 
 
 
 
No Risk Management Plan was provided by the applicant since the application is based on a reference 
medicinal product containing a known active substance for which no safety concern requiring additional 
risk  minimisation  activities  has  been  identified.  The  applicant  considers  that  levetiracetam  is  a  well 
established active ingredient, which is been used for many years and the safety profile of the products 
is very well established. 
Only  routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  according  to  volume  9A/ICH  will  be  undertaken  whilst  the 
product  is  in  the  market,  including  careful  review  of  individual  case  safety  reports,  literature  review, 
signal  detection  procedures  and  generation  of  the  required  safety  reports.  Specific  risk  minimisation 
activities are not envisaged as the safety aspects of the product are well characterised and therefore a 
Risk Minimisation plan is not required. 
The CHMP, having considered the above, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance would be 
adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
2.6  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of levetiracetam tablets and concentrate for solution for 
infusion.  
The reference product Keppra is indicated is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset 
seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly 
diagnosed epilepsy and as adjunctive therapy 
- 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
- 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile myoclonic Epilepsy. 
- 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this generic application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for levetiracetam was presented. This was considered sufficient by the 
CHMP. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics 
and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s 
clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
One bioequivalence study under fasting conditions constitutes the basis for this application. The study 
design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of these formulations and was in line 
with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling times as 
well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Matever met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared 
with the Keppra. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, 
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
AUC 0-, and C max were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 
to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4 
Recommendation 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Matever as monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy; as 
adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation 
in adults, children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy, in the treatment of myoclonic 
seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy and in the 
treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age 
with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy, is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Risk management system and PSUR cycle 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable.  
Matever 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/323600/2011 
Page 23/23 
 
 
 
 
