ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
MAVENCLAD 10 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 10 mg of cladribine. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each tablet contains 64 mg sorbitol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet 
White, round, biconvex tablets of 8.5 mm diameter, engraved with 'C' on one side and '10' on the other 
side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
MAVENCLAD is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with highly active relapsing multiple 
sclerosis (MS) as defined by clinical or imaging features (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of MS. 
Posology 
The recommended cumulative dose is 3.5 mg/kg body weight over 2 years, administered as 
1 treatment course of 1.75 mg/kg per year. Each treatment course consists of 2 treatment weeks, one at 
the beginning of the first month and one at the beginning of the second month of the respective 
treatment year. If medically necessary (e.g. for recovery of lymphocytes), the treatment course in 
year 2 can be delayed for up to 6 months. Each treatment week consists of 4 or 5 days on which a 
patient receives 10 mg or 20 mg (one or two tablets) as a single daily dose, depending on body weight. 
For details, see Tables 1 and 2 below. 
Following completion of the 2 treatment courses, no further cladribine treatment is required in years 3 
and 4 (see section 5.1). Re-initiation of therapy after year 4 has not been studied. 
Criteria for initiating and continuing therapy 
Lymphocyte counts must be 
• 
• 
normal before initiating treatment in year 1, 
at least 800 cells/mm³ before initiating treatment in year 2. 
If necessary, the treatment course in year 2 can be delayed for up to 6 months to allow for recovery of 
lymphocytes. If this recovery takes more than 6 months, the patient should not receive cladribine 
tablets anymore. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution of dose 
The distribution of the total dose over the 2 years of treatment is provided in Table 1. For some weight 
ranges the number of tablets may vary from one treatment week to the next. Use of oral cladribine in 
patients weighing less than 40 kg has not been investigated. 
Table 1  Dose of cladribine per treatment week by patient weight in each treatment year 
Dose in mg (number of tablets) per treatment week 
Treatment week 1 
40 mg (4 tablets) 
50 mg (5 tablets) 
60 mg (6 tablets) 
70 mg (7 tablets) 
80 mg (8 tablets) 
90 mg (9 tablets) 
100 mg (10 tablets) 
100 mg (10 tablets) 
Weight range 
kg 
40 to < 50 
50 to < 60 
60 to < 70 
70 to < 80 
80 to < 90 
90 to < 100 
100 to < 110 
110 and above 
Treatment week 2  
40 mg (4 tablets) 
50 mg (5 tablets) 
60 mg (6 tablets) 
70 mg (7 tablets) 
70 mg (7 tablets) 
80 mg (8 tablets) 
90 mg (9 tablets) 
100 mg (10 tablets) 
Table 2 shows how the total number of tablets per treatment week is distributed over the individual 
days. It is recommended that the daily cladribine doses in each treatment week be taken at intervals of 
24 hours at approximately the same time each day. If a daily dose consists of two tablets, both tablets 
are taken together as a single dose. 
Table 2 Number of tablets per week day 
Total number of tablets  
per week 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Day 1 
Day 2 
Day 3 
Day 4 
Day 5 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
A missed dose must be taken as soon as remembered on the same day according to the treatment 
schedule. 
A missed dose must not be taken together with the next scheduled dose on the following day. In the 
case of a missed dose, the patient must take the missed dose on the following day, and extend the 
number of days in that treatment week. If two consecutive doses are missed, the same rule applies, and 
the number of days in the treatment week is extended by two days. 
Concomitant use of other oral medicinal products 
It is recommended that administration of any other oral medicinal product be separated from that of 
MAVENCLAD by at least 3 hours during the limited number of days of cladribine administration (see 
section 4.5). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dedicated studies have been conducted in patients with renal impairment. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 60 to 89 mL/min), no dose adjustment is 
considered necessary (see section 5.2). 
Safety and efficacy in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment have not been established. 
Therefore, cladribine is contraindicated in these patients (see section 4.3). 
Hepatic impairment 
No studies have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment. 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic impairment because the importance of 
hepatic function for the elimination of cladribine is considered negligible (see section 5.2). 
In absence of data, the use of cladribine is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score >6). 
Elderly 
Caution is recommended when cladribine is used in elderly patients, taking into account the potential 
greater frequency of decreased hepatic or renal function, concomitant diseases and other medicinal 
therapies. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of MAVENCLAD in children below the age of 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
MAVENCLAD is for oral use. The tablets must be taken with water, and swallowed without chewing. 
The tablets can be taken independent of food intake. 
As the tablets are uncoated, they must be swallowed immediately once removed from the blister and 
not be left exposed on surfaces or handled for any period of time longer than that required for dosing. 
If a tablet is left on a surface, or if a broken or fragmented tablet is released from the blister, the area 
must be thoroughly washed. 
The patient's hands must be dry when handling the tablets and washed thoroughly afterwards. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
Active chronic infection (tuberculosis or hepatitis). 
Initiation of cladribine treatment in immunocompromised patients, including patients currently 
receiving immunosuppressive or myelosuppressive therapy (see section 4.5). 
Active malignancy. 
Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <60 mL/min) (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Haematological monitoring 
Cladribine's mode of action is closely linked to a reduction in lymphocyte count. The effect on 
lymphocyte count is dose-dependent. Decreases in neutrophil count, red blood cell count, haematocrit, 
haemoglobin or platelet count compared to baseline values have also been observed in clinical studies, 
although these parameters usually remain within normal limits. 
Additive haematological adverse reactions may be expected if cladribine is administered prior to or 
concomitantly with other substances that affect the haematological profile (see section 4.5). 
Lymphocyte counts must be determined 
• 
• 
• 
before initiating treatment in year 1, 
before initiating treatment in year 2, 
2 and 6 months after start of treatment in each treatment year. If the lymphocyte count is below 
500 cells/mm³, it should be actively monitored until values increase again. 
For treatment decisions based on the patient's lymphocyte counts, see section 4.2 and subsection 
'Infections' below. 
Infections 
Cladribine can reduce the body's immune defence and may increase the likelihood of infections. HIV 
infection, active tuberculosis and active hepatitis must be excluded before initiation of cladribine (see 
section 4.3). 
Latent infections may be activated, including tuberculosis or hepatitis. Therefore, screening for latent 
infections, in particular tuberculosis and hepatitis B and C, must be performed prior to initiation of 
therapy in year 1 and year 2. Initiation of MAVENCLAD should be delayed until the infection has 
been adequately treated. 
A delay in initiation of cladribine should also be considered in patients with an acute infection until 
the infection is fully controlled. 
Particular attention is recommended for patients who have no history of exposure to varicella zoster 
virus. Vaccination of antibody-negative patients is recommended prior to initiation of cladribine 
therapy. Initiation of treatment with MAVENCLAD should be postponed for 4 to 6 weeks to allow for 
the full effect of vaccination to occur. 
The incidence of herpes zoster was increased in patients on cladribine. If lymphocyte counts drop 
below 200 cells/mm³, anti-herpes prophylaxis according to local standard practice should be 
considered during the time of grade 4 lymphopenia (see section 4.8). 
Patients with lymphocyte counts below 500 cells/mm³ should be actively monitored for signs and 
symptoms suggestive of infections, in particular herpes zoster. If such signs and symptoms occur, anti-
infective treatment should be initiated as clinically indicated. Interruption or delay of MAVENCLAD 
may be considered until proper resolution of the infection. 
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported for parenteral 
cladribine in patients treated for hairy cell leukaemia with a different treatment regimen. 
Although no case of PML has been reported with cladribine tablets, a baseline magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) should be performed before initiating cladribine tablets treatment (usually within 
3 months). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignancies 
In clinical studies, events of malignancies were observed more frequently in cladribine-treated patients 
compared to patients who received placebo (see section 4.8). 
MAVENCLAD is contraindicated in MS patients with active malignancies (see section 4.3). An 
individual benefit-risk evaluation should be performed before initiating treatment in patients with prior 
malignancy. Patients treated with cladribine should be advised to follow standard cancer screening 
guidelines. 
Liver function 
Liver injury, including serious cases, has been reported uncommonly in patients treated with 
MAVENCLAD. 
Before initiating MAVENCLAD a comprehensive patient history regarding previous episodes of liver 
injury with other drugs or underlying liver disorders should be taken. Patients should have their serum 
aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin levels assessed prior to initiation of therapy 
in year 1 and year 2. During treatment, liver enzyme and bilirubin monitoring should be obtained 
based on clinical signs and symptoms. 
If a patient develops clinical signs, unexplained liver enzyme elevations or symptoms suggestive of 
hepatic dysfunction (e.g., unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, or 
jaundice and/or dark urine), serum transaminases and total bilirubin should be measured promptly. 
Treatment with MAVENCLAD should be interrupted or discontinued, as appropriate. 
Contraception 
Before initiation of treatment both in year 1 and year 2, women of childbearing potential and males 
who could potentially father a child should be counselled regarding the potential for serious risk to the 
foetus and the need for effective contraception (see section 4.6). 
Women of childbearing potential must prevent pregnancy by use of effective contraception during 
cladribine treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose (see section 4.5). 
Male patients must take precautions to prevent pregnancy of their female partner during cladribine 
treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose. 
Blood transfusions 
In patients who require blood transfusion, irradiation of cellular blood components is recommended 
prior to administration to prevent transfusion-related graft-versus-host disease. Consultation with a 
haematologist is advised. 
Switching to and from cladribine treatment 
In patients who have previously been treated with immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive 
medicinal products the mode of action and duration of effect of the other medicinal product should be 
considered prior to initiation of treatment. A potential additive effect on the immune system should 
also be considered when such medicinal products are used after treatment (see section 4.5). 
When switching from another MS medicinal product, a baseline MRI should be performed (see 
subsection 'Infections' above). 
Hepatic impairment 
The use of cladribine is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh score >6) (see section 4.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sorbitol 
The additive effect of concomitantly administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and 
dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) should be taken into account. 
The content of sorbitol in medicinal products for oral use may affect the bioavailability of other 
medicinal products for oral use administered concomitantly. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
This medicinal product contains hydroxypropylbetadex, which may be available for complex 
formation with other medicinal products, potentially leading to an increase in bioavailability of such a 
product (especially medicinal products with low solubility). Therefore, it is recommended that 
administration of any other oral medicinal product be separated from that of MAVENCLAD by at 
least 3 hours during the limited number of days of cladribine administration. 
Immunosuppressive medicinal products 
Initiation of cladribine treatment is contraindicated in immunocompromised patients, including 
patients currently receiving immunosuppressive or myelosuppressive therapy with, e.g., methotrexate, 
cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine or azathioprine, or chronic use of corticosteroids because of a risk of 
additive effects on the immune system (see section 4.3). 
Acute short-term therapy with systemic corticosteroids can be administered during cladribine 
treatment. 
Other disease-modifying medicinal products 
The use of cladribine with interferon beta results in an increased risk of lymphopenia. Safety and 
efficacy of cladribine in combination with other disease-modifying treatments for MS have not been 
established. Concomitant treatment is not recommended. 
Haematotoxic medicinal products 
Because of the cladribine-induced reduction in lymphocyte count, additive haematological adverse 
reactions may be expected if cladribine is administered prior to or concomitantly with other substances 
that affect the haematological profile (e.g. carbamazepine). Careful monitoring of haematological 
parameters is recommended in such cases. 
Live or live attenuated vaccines 
Treatment should not be initiated within 4 to 6 weeks after vaccination with live or attenuated live 
vaccines because of a risk of active vaccine infection. Vaccination with live or attenuated live vaccines 
should be avoided during and after cladribine treatment as long as the patient's white blood cell counts 
are not within normal limits. 
Potent ENT1, CNT3 and BCRP transporter inhibitors 
At the level of cladribine absorption, the only conceivable interaction pathway of clinical relevance 
appears to be the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP or ABCG2). Inhibition of BCRP in the 
gastrointestinal tract may increase the oral bioavailability and systemic exposure of cladribine. Known 
BCRP inhibitors, which may alter the pharmacokinetics of BCRP substrates by 20% in vivo, include 
eltrombopag. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro studies indicate that cladribine is a substrate of the equilibrative nucleoside (ENT1) and 
concentrative nucleoside (CNT3) transport proteins. Accordingly, the bioavailability, intracellular 
distribution and renal elimination of cladribine may theoretically be altered by potent ENT1 and CNT3 
transporter inhibitors such as dilazep, nifedipine, nimodipine, cilostazol, sulindac or reserpine. 
However, net effects in terms of potential cladribine exposure alterations are difficult to predict. 
Although the clinical relevance of such interactions is unknown, it is recommended that co-
administration of potent ENT1, CNT3 or BCRP inhibitors be avoided during the 4- to 5-day cladribine 
treatment. If this is not possible, selection of alternative concomitant medicinal products with no, or 
minimal ENT1, CNT3 or BCRP transporter inhibiting properties should be considered. If this is not 
possible, dose reduction to the minimum mandatory dose of medicinal products containing these 
compounds, separation in the timing of administration and careful patient monitoring is recommended. 
Potent BCRP and P-gp transporter inducers 
The effects of potent inducers of the efflux transporters BCRP and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) on the 
bioavailability and disposition of cladribine have not been formally studied. A possible decrease in 
cladribine exposure should be considered if potent BCRP (e.g. corticosteroids) or P-gp (e.g. 
rifampicin, St. John's Wort) transporter inducers are co-administered. 
Hormonal contraceptives 
Co-administration of cladribine with oral hormonal contraceptives (ethinylestradiol and 
levonorgestrel) showed no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction with cladribine. Therefore, 
concomitant use of cladribine is not expected to decrease the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives (see 
section 4.6). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Contraception in males and females 
Before initiation of treatment both in year 1 and year 2, women of childbearing potential and males 
who could potentially father a child should be counselled regarding the potential for serious risk to the 
foetus and the need for effective contraception. 
In women of childbearing potential, pregnancy must be excluded before the initiation of 
MAVENCLAD in year 1 and year 2, and prevented by use of effective contraception during cladribine 
treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose. Women who become pregnant under therapy 
with MAVENCLAD should discontinue treatment. 
As cladribine interferes with DNA synthesis, adverse effects on human gametogenesis could be 
expected (see section 5.3). Therefore, male patients must take precautions to prevent pregnancy of 
their partner during cladribine treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose. 
Pregnancy 
Based on human experience with other substances inhibiting DNA synthesis, cladribine could cause 
congenital malformations when administered during pregnancy. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
MAVENCLAD is contraindicated in pregnant women (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether cladribine is excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for serious 
adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, breast-feeding is contraindicated during treatment with 
MAVENCLAD and for 1 week after the last dose (see section 4.3). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
In mice, there were no effects on fertility or the reproductive function of offspring. However, testicular 
effects were observed in mice and monkeys (see section 5.3). 
As cladribine interferes with DNA synthesis, adverse effects on human gametogenesis could be 
expected. Therefore, male patients must take precautions to prevent pregnancy of their partner during 
cladribine treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose (see above). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
MAVENCLAD has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most clinically relevant adverse reactions are lymphopenia (25.6%) and herpes zoster (3.0%). The 
incidence of herpes zoster was higher during the period of grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia (<500 to 
200 cells/mm³ or <200 cells/mm³) compared to the time when the patients were not experiencing 
grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia (see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions described in the list below are derived from pooled data from clinical studies in MS 
in which oral cladribine was used as monotherapy at a cumulative dose of 3.5 mg/kg. The safety 
database from these studies comprises 923 patients. Adverse reactions identified during post-
marketing surveillance are indicated by an asterisk [*]. 
The following definitions apply to the frequency terminology used hereafter: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000) and frequency not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Infections and infestations 
Common: 
Very rare: 
Oral herpes, dermatomal herpes zoster. 
Tuberculosis (see section 4.4). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common:  Lymphopenia. 
Common: 
Decrease in neutrophil count. 
Immune system disorders 
Common: 
Hypersensitivity* including pruritus, urticaria, rash and rare cases of angio-oedema. 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Uncommon: 
Liver Injury*. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: 
Rash, alopecia. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Lymphopenia 
In clinical studies, 20% to 25% of the patients treated with a cumulative dose of cladribine 3.5 mg/kg 
over 2 years as monotherapy developed transient grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia. Grade 4 lymphopenia was 
seen in less than 1% of the patients. The largest proportion of patients with grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia 
was seen 2 months after the first cladribine dose in each year (4.0% and 11.3% of patients with 
grade 3 lymphopenia in year 1 and year 2, 0% and 0.4% of patients with grade 4 lymphopenia in 
year 1 and year 2). It is expected that most patients recover to either normal lymphocyte counts or 
grade 1 lymphopenia within 9 months. 
To decrease the risk for severe lymphopenia, lymphocyte counts must be determined before, during 
and after cladribine treatment (see section 4.4) and strict criteria for initiating and continuing 
cladribine treatment must be followed (see section 4.2). 
Malignancies 
In clinical studies and long-term follow-up of patients treated with a cumulative dose of 3.5 mg/kg 
oral cladribine, events of malignancies were observed more frequently in cladribine-treated patients 
(10 events in 3,414 patient-years [0.29 events per 100 patient-years]) compared to patients who 
received placebo (3 events in 2,022 patient-years [0.15 events per 100 patient-years]) (see section 4.4). 
Hypersensitivity 
In clinical studies of patients treated with a cumulative dose of 3.5 mg/kg oral cladribine, 
hypersensitivity events were observed more frequently in cladribine-treated patients (11.8%) 
compared to patients who received placebo (8.4%). Serious hypersensitivity events were observed in 
0.3% of cladribine-treated patients and in no patients who received placebo. Hypersensitivity events 
led to treatment discontinuation in 0.4% of cladribine-treated patients and in 0.3% patients who 
received placebo. 
Liver Injury 
During post-marketing experience, uncommon events of liver injury, including serious cases and cases 
leading to discontinuation of treatment, were reported in temporal association with MAVENCLAD. 
Transient elevations of serum transaminases were usually greater than 5-fold the upper limit of normal 
(ULN). Isolated cases of transient serum transaminase elevations up to 40-fold the ULN and / or 
symptomatic hepatitis with transient elevation of bilirubin and jaundice have been observed. 
Time to onset varied, with most cases occurring within 8 weeks after the first treatment course (see 
section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is limited experience with overdose of oral cladribine. Lymphopenia is known to be dose-
dependent (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Particularly close monitoring of haematological parameters is recommended in patients who have been 
exposed to an overdose of cladribine. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no known specific antidote to an overdose of cladribine. Treatment consists of careful 
observation and initiation of appropriate supportive measures. Discontinuation of MAVENCLAD may 
need to be considered. Because of the rapid and extensive intracellular and tissue distribution, 
haemodialysis is unlikely to eliminate cladribine to a significant extent. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, 
ATC code: L04AA40 
Mechanism of action 
Cladribine is a nucleoside analogue of deoxyadenosine. A chlorine substitution in the purine ring 
protects cladribine from degradation by adenosine deaminase, increasing the intracellular residence 
time of the cladribine prodrug. Subsequent phosphorylation of cladribine to its active triphosphate 
form, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine triphosphate (Cd-ATP), is particularly efficiently achieved in 
lymphocytes, due to their constitutively high deoxycytidine kinase (DCK) and relatively low 
5'-nucleotidase (5'-NTase) levels. A high DCK to 5'-NTase ratio favours the accumulation of Cd-ATP, 
making lymphocytes particularly susceptible to cell death. As a result of a lower DCK/5'-NTase ratio 
other bone marrow derived cells are less affected than lymphocytes. DCK is the rate limiting enzyme 
for conversion of the cladribine prodrug into its active triphosphate form, leading to selective 
depletion of dividing and non-dividing T and B cells.  
The primary apoptosis-inducing mechanism of action of Cd-ATP has direct and indirect actions on 
DNA synthesis and mitochondrial function. In dividing cells, Cd-ATP interferes with DNA synthesis 
via inhibition of ribonucleotide reductase and competes with deoxyadenosine triphosphate for 
incorporation into DNA by DNA polymerases. In resting cells cladribine causes DNA single-strand 
breaks, rapid nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide consumption, ATP depletion and cell death. There is 
evidence that cladribine can also cause direct caspase-dependent and -independent apoptosis via the 
release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor into the cytosol of non-dividing cells. 
MS pathology involves a complex chain of events in which different immune cell types, including 
autoreactive T and B cells play a key role. The mechanism by which cladribine exerts its therapeutic 
effects in MS is not fully elucidated but its predominant effect on B and T lymphocytes is thought to 
interrupt the cascade of immune events central to MS. 
Variations in the expression levels of DCK and 5'-NTases between immune cell subtypes may explain 
differences in immune cell sensitivity to cladribine. Because of these expression levels, cells of the 
innate immune system are less affected than cells of the adaptive immune system. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Cladribine has been shown to exert long-lasting effects by preferentially targeting lymphocytes and 
the autoimmune processes involved in the pathophysiology of MS. 
Across studies, the largest proportion of patients with grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia (<500 to 
200 cells/mm³ or <200 cells/mm³) was seen 2 months after the first cladribine dose in each year, 
indicating a time gap between cladribine plasma concentrations and the maximum haematological 
effect. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Across clinical studies, data with the proposed cumulative dose of 3.5 mg/kg body weight show a 
gradual improvement in the median lymphocyte counts back to the normal range at week 84 from the 
first dose of cladribine (approximately 30 weeks after the last dose of cladribine). The lymphocyte 
counts of more than 75% of patients returned to the normal range by week 144 from the first dose of 
cladribine (approximately 90 weeks after the last dose of cladribine). 
Treatment with oral cladribine leads to rapid reductions in circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. CD8+ 
T cells have a less pronounced decrease and a faster recovery than CD4+ T cells, resulting in a 
temporarily decreased CD4 to CD8 ratio. Cladribine reduces CD19+ B cells and CD16+/CD56+ 
natural killer cells, which also recover faster than CD4+ T cells. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Relapsing-remitting MS 
Efficacy and safety of oral cladribine were evaluated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled clinical study (CLARITY) in 1,326 patients with relapsing-remitting MS. Study objectives 
were to evaluate the efficacy of cladribine versus placebo in reducing the annualised relapse rate 
(ARR) (primary endpoint), slowing disability progression and decreasing active lesions as measured 
by MRI. 
Patients received either placebo (n = 437), or a cumulative dose of cladribine of 3.5 mg/kg (n = 433) 
or 5.25 mg/kg body weight (n = 456) over the 96-week (2-year) study period in 2 treatment courses. 
Patients randomised to the 3.5 mg/kg cumulative dose received a first treatment course at weeks 1 and 
5 of the first year and a second treatment course at weeks 1 and 5 of the second year. Patients 
randomised to the 5.25 mg/kg cumulative dose received additional treatment at weeks 9 and 13 of the 
first year. The majority of patients in the placebo (87.0%) and the cladribine 3.5 mg/kg (91.9%) and 
5.25 mg/kg (89.0%) treatment groups completed the full 96 weeks of the study. 
Patients were required to have at least 1 relapse in the previous 12 months. In the overall study 
population, the median age was 39 years (range 18 to 65), and the female to male ratio was 
approximately 2:1. The mean duration of MS prior to study enrolment was 8.7 years, and the median 
baseline neurological disability based on Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score 
across all treatment groups was 3.0 (range 0 to 6.0). Over two thirds of the study patients were 
treatment-naive for MS disease-modifying drugs (DMDs). The remaining patients were pre-treated 
with either interferon beta-1a, interferon beta-1b, glatiramer acetate or natalizumab. 
Patients with relapsing-remitting MS receiving cladribine 3.5 mg/kg showed statistically significantly 
improvements in the annualised relapse rate, proportion of patients relapse-free over 96 weeks, 
proportion of patients free of sustained disability over 96 weeks and time to 3-month EDSS 
progression compared to patients on placebo (see Table 3). 
Table 3  Clinical outcomes in the CLARITY study (96 weeks) 
Parameter 
Annualised relapse rate (95% CI) 
Relative reduction (cladribine vs. 
placebo) 
Proportion of patients relapse-free 
over 96 weeks 
Time to 3-month EDSS progression, 
10th percentile (months) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI) 
*  p <0.001 compared to placebo 
Placebo 
(n = 437) 
0.33 (0.29, 0.38) 
Cladribine cumulative dose 
3.5 mg/kg 
(n = 433) 
0.14* (0.12, 0.17) 
5.25 mg/kg 
(n = 456) 
0.15* (0.12, 0.17) 
57.6% 
79.7% 
13.6 
54.5% 
78.9% 
13.6 
0.67 (0.48, 0.93) 
p = 0.018 
0.69 (0.49, 0.96) 
p = 0.026 
60.9% 
10.8 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the cladribine 3.5 mg/kg treatment group was statistically significantly superior to placebo 
with regard to number and relative reduction of T1 Gd+ lesions, active T2 lesions and combined 
unique lesions as demonstrated in brain MRI over the entire 96 weeks of the study. Patients taking 
cladribine compared to the placebo treatment group had 86% relative reduction in the mean number of 
T1 Gd+ lesions (adjusted mean number for cladribine 3.5 mg/kg, and placebo groups were 0.12 and 
0.91, respectively), 73% relative reduction in the mean number of active T2 lesions (adjusted mean 
number for cladribine 3.5 mg/kg, and placebo groups were 0.38 and 1.43, respectively) and 74% 
relative reduction in the mean number of combined unique lesions per patient per scan (adjusted mean 
number for cladribine 3.5 mg/kg, and placebo groups were 0.43 and 1.72, respectively) (p <0.001 
across all 3 MRI outcomes). 
Post-hoc analysis of time to 6-month confirmed EDSS progression resulted in a 47% reduction of the 
risk of disability progression in the cladribine 3.5 mg/kg compared to placebo (hazard ratio = 0.53, 
95% CI [0.36, 0.79], p <0.05); in the placebo group the 10th percentile was reached at 245 days, and 
not reached at all during the study period in the cladribine 3.5 mg/kg group. 
As shown in Table 3 above, higher cumulative doses did not add any clinically meaningful benefit, but 
were associated with a higher incidence in ≥grade 3 lymphopenia (44.9% in the 5.25 mg/kg group vs. 
25.6% in the 3.5 mg/kg group). 
Patients who had completed the CLARITY study could be enrolled in CLARITY Extension. In this 
extension study, 806 patients received either placebo or a cumulative dose of cladribine 3.5 mg/kg (in 
a regimen similar to that used in CLARITY) over the 96-week study period. The primary objective of 
this study was safety, while efficacy endpoints were exploratory. 
The magnitude of the effect in reducing the frequency of relapses and slowing disability progression in 
patients receiving the 3.5 mg/kg dose over 2 years was maintained in years 3 and 4 (see section 4.2). 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity 
Post-hoc subgroup efficacy analyses have been conducted in patients with high disease activity treated 
with oral cladribine at the recommended 3.5 mg/kg cumulative dose. These included 
• 
patients with 1 relapse in the previous year and at least 1 T1 Gd+ lesion or 9 or more T2 lesions, 
while on therapy with other DMDs, 
patients with 2 or more relapses in the previous year, whether on DMD treatment or not. 
• 
In the analyses of the CLARITY data, a consistent treatment effect on relapses was observed with the 
annualised relapse rate ranging from 0.16 to 0.18 in the cladribine groups and 0.47 to 0.50 in the 
placebo group (p <0.0001). Compared to the overall population, a greater effect was observed in time 
to 6-month sustained disability where cladribine reduced the risk of disability progression by 82% 
(hazard ratio = 0.18, 95% CI [0.07, 0.47]). For placebo the 10th percentile for disability progression 
was reached between 16 and 23 weeks, while for the cladribine groups it was not reached during the 
entire study. 
Secondary progressive MS with relapses 
A supportive study in patients treated with cladribine as an add-on to interferon beta vs. placebo + 
interferon beta also included a limited number of patients with secondary progressive MS 
(26 patients). In these patients, treatment with cladribine 3.5 mg/kg resulted in a reduction of the 
annualised relapse rate compared to placebo (0.03 versus 0.30, risk ratio: 0.11, p <0.05). There was no 
difference in annualised relapse rate between patients with relapsing-remitting MS and patients with 
secondary progressive MS with relapses. An effect on disability progression could not be shown in 
either subgroup. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with secondary progressive MS were excluded in the CLARITY study. However, a post-hoc 
analysis of a mixed cohort including CLARITY and ONWARD patients, defined by a baseline EDSS 
score of ≥3.5 as a proxy for secondary progressive MS, showed a similar reduction in annualised 
relapse rate compared to patients with an EDSS score below 3. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
MAVENCLAD in all subsets of the paediatric population in multiple sclerosis (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Cladribine is a prodrug that has to be phosphorylated intracellularly to become biologically active. 
Cladribine pharmacokinetics were studied following oral and intravenous administration in MS 
patients and patients with malignancies, and in in vitro systems. 
Absorption 
Following oral administration, cladribine is rapidly absorbed. Administration of 10 mg cladribine 
resulted in a cladribine mean Cmax in the range of 22 to 29 ng/mL and corresponding mean AUC in the 
range of 80 to 101 ng•h/mL (arithmetic means from various studies). 
When oral cladribine was given in fasted state, median Tmax was 0.5 h (range 0.5 to 1.5 h). When 
administered with a high-fat meal, cladribine absorption was delayed (median Tmax 1.5 h, range 1 to 
3 h) and Cmax was reduced by 29% (based on geometric mean), while AUC was unchanged. The 
bioavailability of 10 mg oral cladribine was approximately 40%. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is large, indicating extensive tissue distribution and intracellular uptake. 
Studies revealed a mean volume of distribution of cladribine in the range of 480 to 490 L. The plasma 
protein binding of cladribine is 20%, and independent of plasma concentration. 
The distribution of cladribine across biological membranes is facilitated by various transport proteins, 
including ENT1, CNT3 and BCRP. 
In vitro studies indicate that cladribine efflux is only minimally P-gp related. Clinically relevant 
interactions with inhibitors of P-gp are not expected. The potential consequences of P-gp induction on 
the bioavailability of cladribine have not been formally studied. 
In vitro studies showed negligible transporter-mediated uptake of cladribine into human hepatocytes. 
Cladribine has the potential to penetrate the blood brain barrier. A small study in cancer patients has 
shown a cerebrospinal fluid/plasma concentration ratio of approximately 0.25. 
Cladribine and/or its phosphorylated metabolites are substantially accumulated and retained in human 
lymphocytes. In vitro, intra- versus extracellular accumulation ratios were found to be around 30 to 40 
already 1 hour after cladribine exposure. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of cladribine was studied in MS patients following the administration of a single 
10-mg tablet and a single 3-mg intravenous dose. Following both oral and intravenous administration, 
the parent compound cladribine was the main component present in plasma and urine. The metabolite 
2-chloroadenine was a minor metabolite both in plasma and in urine, e.g. accounting only for ≤ 3% of 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plasma parent drug exposure after oral administration. Only traces of other metabolites could be found 
in plasma and in urine. 
In hepatic in vitro systems, negligible metabolism of cladribine was observed (at least 90% was 
unchanged cladribine). 
Cladribine is not a relevant substrate to cytochrome P450 enzymes and does not show significant 
potential to act as inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 
and CYP3A4. Inhibition of these enzymes or genetic polymorphisms (e.g. CYP2D6, CYP2C9 or 
CYP2C19) are not expected to result in clinically significant effects on cladribine pharmacokinetics or 
exposure. Cladribine has no clinically meaningful inductive effect on CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and 
CYP3A4 enzymes. 
After entering the target cells, cladribine is phosphorylated to cladribine monophosphate (Cd-AMP) 
by DCK (and also by deoxyguanosine kinase in the mitochondria). Cd-AMP is further phosphorylated 
to cladribine diphosphate (Cd-ADP) and cladribine triphosphate (Cd-ATP). The dephosphorylation 
and deactivation of Cd-AMP is catalysed by cytoplasmic 5'-NTase. In a study of the intracellular 
pharmacokinetics of Cd-AMP and Cd-ATP in patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia, the 
levels of Cd-ATP were approximately half of the Cd-AMP levels. 
Intracellular half-life of Cd-AMP was 15 h. Intracellular half-life of Cd-ATP was 10 h. 
Elimination 
Based on pooled population pharmacokinetic data from various studies, the median values for 
elimination were 22.2 L/h for renal clearance and 23.4 L/h for non-renal clearance. Renal clearance 
exceeded the glomerular filtration rate, indicating active renal tubular secretion of cladribine. 
The non-renal part of the elimination of cladribine (approximately 50%) consists of negligible hepatic 
metabolism and of extensive intracellular distribution and trapping of the active cladribine principle 
(Cd-ATP) within the targeted intracellular compartment (i.e. the lymphocytes) and subsequent 
elimination of intracellular Cd-ATP according to the life-cycle and elimination pathways of these 
cells. 
The estimated terminal half-life for a typical patient from the population pharmacokinetic analysis is 
approximately 1 day. This however does not result in any drug accumulation after once daily dosing as 
this half-life only accounts for a small portion of the AUC. 
Dose and time dependence 
After oral administration of cladribine across a dose range from 3 to 20 mg, Cmax and AUC increased 
in a dose-proportional fashion, suggesting that absorption is not affected by rate- or capacity-limited 
processes up to a 20 mg oral dose. 
No significant accumulation of cladribine concentration in plasma has been observed after repeated 
dosing. There is no indication that cladribine pharmacokinetics might change in a time-dependent 
fashion after repeated administration. 
Special populations 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of cladribine in elderly or in 
paediatric MS patients, or in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment. 
A population kinetic analysis did not show any effect of age (range 18 to 65 years) or gender on 
cladribine pharmacokinetics. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Renal clearance of cladribine was shown to be dependent on creatinine clearance. Based on a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis including patients with normal renal function and with mild renal 
impairment, total clearance in patients with mild renal impairment (CLCR = 60 mL/min) is expected to 
decrease moderately, leading to an increase in exposure of 25%. 
Hepatic impairment 
The role of hepatic function for the elimination of cladribine is considered negligible. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
An interaction study in MS patients showed that the bioavailability of 10 mg oral cladribine was not 
altered when co-administered with pantoprazole. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical safety pharmacological and toxicological assessment of cladribine in animal models 
relevant for the safety assessment of cladribine did not yield significant findings other than those 
predicted by the pharmacologic mechanism of cladribine. The primary target organs identified in the 
repeat-dose toxicology studies by parenteral routes (intravenous or subcutaneous) up to 1-year 
duration in mice and monkeys were the lymphoid and haematopoietic system. Other target organs 
after longer administration (14 cycles) of cladribine to monkeys by subcutaneous route were the 
kidneys (karyomegaly of renal tubular epithelium), adrenals (cortex atrophy and decreased 
vacuolation), gastrointestinal tract (mucosa atrophy) and testes. Effects on the kidneys were also seen 
in mice. 
Mutagenicity 
Cladribine is incorporated into DNA strands and inhibits DNA synthesis and repair. Cladribine did not 
induce gene mutation in bacteria or mammalian cells, but it was clastogenic causing chromosomal 
damage in mammalian cells in vitro at a concentration which was 17-fold above the expected clinical 
Cmax. In vivo clastogenicity in mice was detected at 10 mg/kg, which was the lowest dose tested. 
Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of cladribine was assessed in a long-term 22-month study with 
subcutaneous administration in mice and in a short-term 26-week study by oral route in transgenic 
mice. 
• 
• 
In the long-term carcinogenicity study in mice, the highest dose used was 10 mg/kg, which was 
seen to be genotoxic in the mouse micronucleus study (equivalent to approximately 16-fold the 
expected human exposure in AUC in patients taking the maximum daily dose of 20 mg 
cladribine). No increased incidence of lymphoproliferative disorders or other tumour types 
(apart from Harderian gland tumours, predominantly adenomas) was seen in mice. Harderian 
gland tumours are not considered to be of clinical relevance, as humans do not have comparable 
anatomical structures. 
In the short-term carcinogenicity study in Tg rasH2 mice, no cladribine-related increase in 
incidence of lymphoproliferative disorders or other tumour types was seen at any dose tested up 
to 30 mg/kg per day (equivalent to approximately 25-fold the expected human exposure in AUC 
in patients taking the maximum daily dose of 20 mg cladribine). 
Cladribine was also assessed in a 1-year monkey study by the subcutaneous route. No increased 
incidence in lymphoproliferative disorders and no tumours were seen in this study. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although cladribine may have a potential for genotoxicity, long-term data in mice and monkeys did 
not provide any evidence of a relevant increased carcinogenicity risk in humans. 
Reproduction toxicity 
While there were no effects on female fertility, reproductive function or general performance of 
offspring, cladribine was shown to be embryolethal when administered to pregnant mice, and the 
compound was teratogenic in mice (also following treatment of the males only) and rabbits. The 
observed embryolethal and teratogenic effects are consistent with the pharmacologic mechanisms of 
cladribine. In a male mouse fertility study, malformed foetuses with agenesis of portions of 
appendage(s) distal the humerus and/or femur were seen. The incidence of affected mouse foetuses in 
this study was in the same range of spontaneous incidence of amelia and phocomelia in this strain of 
mice. However, considering cladribine genotoxicity, male-mediated effects related to potential genetic 
alteration of differentiating sperm cells cannot be excluded. 
Cladribine did not affect the fertility of male mice, but observed testicular effects were reduced 
testicular weights and increased numbers of non-motile sperm. Testicular degeneration and reversible 
decrease in spermatozoa with rapid progressive motility were also seen in the monkey. Histologically, 
testicular degeneration was only seen in one male monkey in a 1-year subcutaneous toxicity study. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Hydroxypropylbetadex (2-hydroxypropyl-ß-cyclodextrin) 
Sorbitol 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf-life 
4 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Oriented polyamide (OPA)/aluminium (Al)/polyvinyl chloride (PVC) – aluminium (Al) blister sealed 
in a cardboard wallet and fixed in a child-resistant outer carton. 
Pack sizes of 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/17/1212/001 
EU/1/17/1212/002 
EU/1/17/1212/003 
EU/1/17/1212/004 
EU/1/17/1212/005 
EU/1/17/1212/006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 August 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 25 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTION WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVEUSE OF THE MEDICNAL 
PRODUCT  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
NerPharMa S.R.L. 
Viale Pasteur, 10 
20014 Nerviano (MI) 
Italy 
R-Pharm Germany GmbH 
Heinrich-Mack-Strasse 35 
89257 Illertissen 
Germany 
Merck S.L. 
Polígono Merck 
08100 Mollet del Vallés (Barcelona) 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Mavenclad (cladribine) in each Member State (MS) the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder (MAH) must agree about the content and format of the educational materials (EM), including 
communication media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the 
National Competent Authority (NCA). 
The MAH shall ensure that in each MS where Mavenclad is marketed, all prescribers and patients who 
are expected to prescribe / use Mavenclad are provided with: 
• 
• 
The Prescriber Guide 
The Patient Guide 
The Prescriber Guide should include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
An introduction to Mavenclad, reminding the prescriber to consider the Patient Guide while 
discussing Mavenclad treatment with the patient, to support the early identification of signs and 
symptoms of adverse reactions and their timely treatment; 
The treatment regimens; 
A reminder to carefully consider data on blood count monitoring and screening for latent 
infections before starting the treatment; 
A reminder to obtain liver values and consider patient history on liver injury before starting the 
treatment; 
Guidance for patient’s monitoring during the treatment; 
Information on pregnancy prevention. 
The Patient Guide should include an introduction to Mavenclad treatment, its side effects, potential 
risks and information on pregnancy prevention. 
The prescriber / patient guide should include information about the following safety concerns: 
• 
Important identified risks 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Severe (Grade ≥ 3) lymphopenia, to ensure compliance to haematological testing and 
treatment requirements; 
Herpes zoster infections, to ensure awareness of signs and symptoms suggestive for these 
infections; 
Tuberculosis, to raise awareness about this risk. 
Liver injury, to consider patient history on liver injury, to obtain liver values prior to 
treatment and to ensure awareness of clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of the risk. 
• 
Important potential risks 
1. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), opportunistic infections (other than 
PML and tuberculosis) and severe infections, to ensure awareness of signs and symptoms 
suggestive of these risks; 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Malignancies, to raise awareness on this risk because: 
a. 
b. 
Patients with current active malignancies must not receive Mavenclad treatment;  
Patients should be advised to undertake standard cancer screening after Mavenclad 
treatment; 
3. 
Teratogenicity/adverse pregnancy outcomes, to ensure that female patients of child 
bearing potential / partners of male patients receiving Mavenclad: 
a. 
Receive counselling before starting the treatment (consisting of two treatment 
courses administered at the beginning of two consecutive years) both in year 1 and 
year 2; 
Use effective contraception during the treatment and for at least 6 months after the 
last dose. 
b. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
MAVENCLAD 10 mg tablets 
cladribine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each tablet contains 10 mg cladribine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sorbitol. Read the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 tablet 
4 tablets 
5 tablets 
6 tablets 
7 tablets 
8 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Child-resistant packaging. 
1 
2 
3 
Open flap 
Push and hold hooks 
Pull out tray until it stops 
Push (text to indicate the two hooks that have to be pressed for opening) 
QR code to be included www.mavenclad-instructions.com 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/17/1212/001 - 1 tablet 
EU/1/17/1212/002 - 4 tablets 
EU/1/17/1212/003 - 5 tablets 
EU/1/17/1212/004 - 6 tablets 
EU/1/17/1212/005 - 7 tablets 
EU/1/17/1212/006 - 8 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
mavenclad 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS 
CARDBOARD WALLET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
MAVENCLAD 10 mg tablets 
cladribine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Merck Europe B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Cladribine 10 mg 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
MAVENCLAD 10 mg tablets 
cladribine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What MAVENCLAD is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take MAVENCLAD 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take MAVENCLAD 
Possible side effects 
How to store MAVENCLAD 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What MAVENCLAD is and what it is used for 
MAVENCLAD contains the active substance cladribine, a cytotoxic (cell killing) substance that works 
mostly on lymphocytes, cells of the immune system that are involved in inflammation. 
MAVENCLAD is a medicine used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS) in adults. MS is a disease in 
which inflammation destroys the protective sheath around the nerves. 
Treatment with MAVENCLAD has been shown to reduce flare-ups of symptoms and to slow down 
progression of disability. 
2.  What you need to know before you take MAVENCLAD 
Do not take MAVENCLAD 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to cladribine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are HIV positive, meaning you are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). 
if you have active tuberculosis or liver inflammation (hepatitis). 
if you have a weakened immune system due to medical conditions or because you are taking 
other medicines that weaken your immune system or reduce the production of blood cells in 
your bone marrow. These include: 
- 
ciclosporin, cyclophosphamide and azathioprine (used to suppress the immune system, 
for example after organ transplantation); 
methotrexate (used to treat conditions such as psoriasis or rheumatoid arthritis); 
long-term corticosteroids (used to reduce inflammation, for example in asthma). 
- 
- 
See also 'Other medicines and MAVENCLAD'. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
if you have active cancer. 
if you have moderate or severe kidney problems. 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding (see also 'Pregnancy and breast-feeding'). 
Do not take MAVENCLAD and talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are unsure if any of the 
above applies to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking MAVENCLAD. 
Blood tests 
You will have blood tests before you start treatment to check that you can take MAVENCLAD. The 
doctor will also do blood tests during and after treatment to check that you can continue to take 
MAVENCLAD, and that you are not developing any complications from the treatment. 
Infections 
You will be tested to see if you have any infections before you start MAVENCLAD treatment. It is 
important to talk to your doctor if you think you have an infection. Symptoms of infections can 
include: fever, aching, painful muscles, headache, generally feeling unwell or yellowing of the eyes. 
Your doctor may delay treatment, or interrupt it, until the infection clears up. 
Shingles 
If necessary, you will be vaccinated against shingles before you start treatment. You will need to wait 
between 4 and 6 weeks for the vaccination to take effect. Tell your doctor immediately if you get 
symptoms of shingles, a common complication of MAVENCLAD (see section 4), which may need 
specific treatment. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
If you believe your MS is getting worse or if you notice any new symptoms, for example changes in 
mood or behaviour, memory lapses, speech and communication difficulties, talk to your doctor as 
soon as possible. These may be the symptoms of a rare brain disorder caused by infection and called 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a serious condition that may lead to 
severe disability or death.  
Although PML has not been observed with MAVENCLAD, as a precaution, you may have a head 
MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) before you start treatment. 
Cancer 
Single events of cancer have been observed in patients who had received cladribine in clinical studies. 
Talk to your doctor if you have previously had cancer. Your doctor will decide the best treatment 
options for you. As a precautionary measure, you should follow standard cancer screening 
recommendations, as advised by your doctor. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver problems 
MAVENCLAD may cause liver problems. Talk to your doctor before taking MAVENCLAD if you 
have or have ever had liver problems. Tell your doctor immediately if you develop one or more 
of the following symptoms: feeling sick (nausea), vomiting, stomach pain, tiredness (fatigue), loss of 
appetite, yellow skin or eyes (jaundice) or dark urine. These could be symptoms of serious liver 
problems. 
Contraception 
Men and women must use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 6 months after the 
last dose. This is important because MAVENCLAD can seriously harm your baby. 
See also 'Pregnancy and breast-feeding'. 
Blood transfusions 
If you require blood transfusions, tell the doctor that you are taking MAVENCLAD. You may have to 
have the blood irradiated to prevent complications. 
Changing treatments 
If you change from other MS treatments to MAVENCLAD, your doctor will check that your blood 
cell counts (lymphocytes) are normal before you start treatment. 
If you change from MAVENCLAD to other MS treatments, talk to your doctor. There can be overlaps 
in the effect on your immune system. 
Children and adolescents 
Use of MAVENCLAD is not recommended in patients below the age of 18 years, because it has not 
been investigated in this age group. 
Other medicines and MAVENCLAD 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Do not start MAVENCLAD together with medicines that weaken your immune system or reduce the 
production of blood cells by your bone marrow. These include: 
- 
- 
- 
ciclosporin, cyclophosphamide and azathioprine (used to suppress the immune system, for 
example after organ transplantation); 
methotrexate (used to treat conditions such as psoriasis or rheumatoid arthritis); 
long-term corticosteroids (used to reduce inflammation, for example in asthma). Short-term 
corticosteroids can be used when advised by your doctor. 
Do not use MAVENCLAD together with other medicines for MS unless specifically advised by your 
doctor. 
Do not take MAVENCLAD at the same time as any other medicine. Leave a gap of at least 
3 hours between taking MAVENCLAD and other medicines taken by mouth. MAVENCLAD 
contains hydroxypropylbetadex that may interact with other medicines in your stomach. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor, if you are or have been treated with: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
medicines which may affect your blood cells (for example carbamazepine, used to treat 
epilepsy). Your doctor may need to supervise you more closely. 
certain types of vaccines (live and live attenuated vaccines). If you have been vaccinated within 
the last 4 to 6 weeks, MAVENCLAD therapy must be delayed. You must not receive such 
vaccines during MAVENCLAD treatment. Your immune system must have recovered before 
you can be vaccinated, and blood tests will check this. 
dilazep, nifedipine, nimodipine, reserpine, cilostazol or sulindac (used to treat the heart, high 
blood pressure, vascular conditions or inflammation), or eltrombopag (used to treat conditions 
associated with bleeding). Your doctor will tell you what to do if you have to take these 
medicines. 
rifampicin (used to treat certain types of infection), St. John's wort (used to treat depression) or 
corticosteroids (used to suppress inflammation). Your doctor will tell you what to do if you 
have to take these medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take MAVENCLAD if you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant. This is important 
because MAVENCLAD may seriously harm your baby. 
You must use effective methods of contraception to avoid becoming pregnant during 
MAVENCLAD treatment and for 6 months after taking the last dose. If you get pregnant more than 
6 months after the last dose in year 1, no safety risk is expected but this will mean that you cannot 
receive treatment with MAVENCLAD while you are pregnant. 
Men must use effective methods of contraception to prevent their partner from getting pregnant while 
being treated with MAVENCLAD and for 6 months after the last dose. 
Your doctor will give you guidance on appropriate methods of contraception. 
Do not take MAVENCLAD, if you are breast-feeding. If your doctor believes that MAVENCLAD is 
essential for you, your doctor will advise you to stop breast-feeding during treatment and at least one 
week after the last dose. 
Driving and using machines 
MAVENCLAD is not expected to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
MAVENCLAD contains sorbitol 
This medicine contains 64 mg sorbitol in each tablet. 
3. 
How to take MAVENCLAD 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment courses 
You will be given MAVENCLAD as two treatment courses over 2 years. 
Each treatment course consists of 2 treatment weeks, which are one month apart at the beginning of 
each treatment year. 
A treatment week consists of 4 or 5 days on which you receive 1 or 2 tablets daily (see Table 1). 
Example: if you start your treatment mid April, you take your tablets as shown. 
Table 1 
Year 1 
1st treatment week 
1 or 2 tablets daily for 4 
or 5 days, mid April 
1st treatment week 
Year 2 
1 or 2 tablets daily for 4 or 
5 days, mid April 
2nd treatment week  1 or 2 tablets daily for 4 
2nd treatment week  1 or 2 tablets daily for 4 or 
or 5 days, mid May 
5 days, mid May 
Before you start a treatment course, your doctor will do a blood test to check that the levels of 
lymphocytes (a type of white blood cells) are in an acceptable range. If this is not the case, your 
treatment will be delayed. 
Once you have completed the 2 treatment courses over 2 years, your doctor will continue to monitor 
your health for another 2 years, in which you do not need to take the medicine. 
Dose 
1. 
You will be prescribed the correct number of tablets for each treatment week, based on your 
body weight as shown in Table 2. 
You will need one or more packs to provide the correct number of tablets. 
2. 
3.  When you receive your supply of medicine, check that you have the correct number of tablets. 
4. 
In the left column of the table below find the row that fits your body weight (in kg), and then 
check the number of tablets that should be in the pack(s) for the treatment week you will be 
starting. 
If the number of tablets in your pack(s) is different from the number shown for your weight in 
the table below, speak to your doctor.  
Note that for some weight ranges the number of tablets may vary from one treatment week to 
the next. 
5. 
6. 
Example: if you weigh 85 kg and are about to start treatment week 1, you will be given 8 tablets. 
Table 2 
Your weight 
less than 40 kg 
40 to less than 50 kg 
50 to less than 60 kg 
60 to less than 70 kg 
70 to less than 80 kg 
80 to less than 90 kg 
90 to less than 100 kg 
100 to less than 110 kg 
110 kg and above 
Number of tablets to take 
Year 1 treatment course 
Year 2 treatment course 
Treatment week 1 Treatment week 2 Treatment week 1 Treatment week 2 
Your doctor will tell you the number of tablets to take 
4 
4 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
10 
10 
10 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
10 
4 
5 
6 
7 
7 
8 
9 
10 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to take your medicine 
Take the tablet(s) at about the same time each day. Swallow them with water and without chewing. 
You do not have to take the tablets at meal times. You can take them with meals or between meals. 
Read the 'Step-by-Step Guide' at the end of this package leaflet on how to handle the child-
resistant package and how to take the tablets included in the pack. 
Important 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ensure your hands are dry before picking up your tablet(s). 
Push your tablet(s) through the blister and swallow immediately. 
Do not leave your tablet(s) exposed on surfaces, for example on a table, or handle the tablet 
longer than necessary. 
If a tablet is left on a surface or if it breaks and fragments fall from the blister, the area must be 
thoroughly washed. 
Thoroughly wash your hands after handling the tablets. 
If you lose a tablet, contact your doctor for advice. 
Duration of a treatment week 
Depending on the total number of tablets you have been prescribed, you have to take them over 4 or 
5 days, in each treatment week. 
Table 3 shows how many tablets (1 or 2 tablets) you have to take on each day. If your daily dose is 
2 tablets, take them at the same time. 
Example: if you have to take 8 tablets, you would take 2 tablets on Day 1, Day 2, Day 3, then 1 tablet 
on Day 4 and Day 5. 
Table 3 
Total number of tablets  
per treatment week 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Day 1 
Day 2 
Day 3 
Day 4 
Day 5 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
If you take more MAVENCLAD than you should 
If you have taken more tablets than you should, contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will 
decide if you need to stop treatment or not. 
There is limited experience with overdose of MAVENCLAD. It is known that the more medicine you 
take the less lymphocytes may be present in your body, resulting in lymphopenia (see section 4). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take MAVENCLAD 
If you miss a dose and you remember on 
the same day you were supposed to take it 
Take the missed dose on that day. 
If you miss a dose and do not remember it until 
the following day 
Do not take the missed dose along with the next 
scheduled dose. 
Take the missed dose on the next day and extend the 
number of days in that treatment week. 
Example: If you forget to take the Day 3 dose and do not remember it until Day 4, take the Day 3 dose 
on Day 4, and extend the total number of days in the treatment week by 1 day. If you miss 
2 consecutive doses (for example both Day 3 and Day 4 doses), take the missed doses for the next 
2 days, and then extend the treatment week by 2 days. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects could be or could become serious 
Lymphopenia and shingles (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
The most important side effect is a reduction in the number of white blood cells called lymphocytes 
(lymphopenia), which is very common and may be severe. Lymphopenia may increase the risk of 
getting an infection. An infection commonly seen with MAVENCLAD is shingles. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have symptoms of shingles such as a 'band' of severe pain and 
blistering rash, typically on one side of the upper body or the face. Other symptoms may be headache, 
burning, tingling, numbness or itchiness of the skin in the affected area, feeling generally unwell or 
feverish in the early stages of infection. 
Shingles will need to be treated, and MAVENCLAD treatment may need to be stopped until the 
infection is cleared. 
Liver problems (uncommon - may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have symptoms such as feeling sick (nausea), vomiting, 
stomach pain, tiredness (fatigue), loss of appetite, yellow skin or eyes (jaundice) or dark urine. 
MAVENCLAD treatment may need to be stopped or interrupted. 
Other possible side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
cold sore (oral herpes) 
rash 
hair loss 
reduction in the number of certain white blood cells (neutrophils) 
allergic reactions, including itching, hives, rash and swelling of the lips, tongue or face 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
tuberculosis 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store MAVENCLAD 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the cardboard wallet and the carton 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What MAVENCLAD contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is cladribine. Each tablet contains 10 mg cladribine. 
The other ingredients are hydroxypropylbetadex, sorbitol and magnesium stearate. 
What MAVENCLAD looks like and contents of the pack 
MAVENCLAD tablets are white, round, biconvex tablets engraved with 'C' on one side and '10' on the 
other side. Each pack contains 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 tablets in a blister, sealed in a cardboard wallet and 
fixed in a child-resistant carton. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Merck Europe B.V. 
Gustav Mahlerplein 102 
1082 MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
NerPharMa S.R.L. 
Viale Pasteur, 10 
20014 Nerviano (MI) 
Italy 
R-Pharm Germany GmbH 
Heinrich-Mack-Strasse 35 
89257 Illertissen 
Germany 
Merck S.L. 
Polígono Merck 
08100 Mollet del Vallés (Barcelona) 
Spain 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
A Step-by-Step Guide to taking your MAVENCLAD 10 mg tablets 
MAVENCLAD is packed in a reclosable, child-resistant carton and must be kept out of the sight and 
reach of children. See below for a step-by-step guide on how to handle the package and to take the 
MAVENCLAD tablets. Make sure you know how many tablets are contained in the package. See 
package leaflet for guidance. 
1. 
Have a glass of water ready and make sure your hands are clean and dry before taking the 
tablet(s). 
2. 
Pick up carton with the opening instructions facing up. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
(1) Open the flap on the left end. 
(2) Push in the hooks on the sides of the carton simultaneously with your index finger and 
thumb, and keep hooks pushed. 
(3) Pull the tray out until it stops. Caution: Do not remove the tray from the carton. 
4. 
Take the package leaflet from the tray. Make sure you have read all of the package leaflet 
including this step-by-step guide and keep it in a safe place. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Raise the blister pack by pushing your finger through the hole in the tray. Place your hand under 
the blister pack and push 1 or 2 tablet(s) into your hand, according to your prescribed dose. 
6. 
Swallow tablet(s) with water. Tablets must be swallowed whole and not chewed or allowed to 
dissolve in your mouth. Contact with skin should be limited. Avoid touching your nose, eyes, 
and other parts of the body. 
7.  Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
Push the tray back into the carton. Store in the original package in order to protect from 
moisture. 
Keep your tablets in the blister until your next dose. Do not pop the tablets out of the blister. Do not 
store the tablets in a different container. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
