EMA/405631/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004230 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mavenclad 
cladribine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mavenclad. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Mavenclad. 
For practical information about using Mavenclad, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Mavenclad and what is it used for? 
Mavenclad is a medicine used to treat adults with the relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, a disease in 
which inflammation damages the protective sheath around the nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 
Relapsing means that the patient has repeated flare-ups of the symptoms.  
Mavenclad is used in patients whose disease is highly active. It contains the active substance 
cladribine. 
How is Mavenclad used? 
Mavenclad can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in treating multiple sclerosis.  
The dose depends on patients’ body weight and treatment consists of two courses spread over 2 years. 
The first year, patients take one to two tablets a day for 4 or 5 days; after one month, they again take 
one to two tablets a day for 4 or 5 days, adding up to a total dose of 1.75 mg per kg body weight over 
the two periods. This treatment course is repeated one year later. No other medicines should be taken 
within 3 hours of a Mavenclad tablet. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Mavenclad work? 
In multiple sclerosis, the body’s immune (defence) system attacks and damages the protective sheath 
around the nerve cells in the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). The immune cells 
called lymphocytes play a key role in this process.  
The active substance in Mavenclad, cladribine, has a similar chemical structure to purine, one of the 
substances needed to make up the DNA. In the body, cladribine is taken up by cells such as 
lymphocytes and interferes with the production of new DNA. This brings about the death of the 
lymphocytes, slowing down the progression of multiple sclerosis.  
Cladribine is already approved in the EU for the treatment of certain leukaemias (cancers affecting 
lymphocytes). 
What benefits of Mavenclad have been shown in studies? 
Mavenclad has been shown to be effective in one main study involving 1,326 patients with relapsing- 
remitting multiple sclerosis. The study compared the effect of Mavenclad and placebo (a dummy 
treatment) in reducing the relapse rate 96 weeks after the start of treatment. Patients treated with 
Mavenclad had a relapse rate of 0.14 per year on average, compared with 0.33 for patients given 
placebo; at the end of 96 weeks, around 8 out 10 patients given standard doses of Mavenclad and 6 
out of 10 given placebo had not had a relapse. In addition, patients given Mavenclad were nearly 50% 
less likely to have disease progression (indicated as an increase in disability that lasted for at least 6 
months). The results suggested that the effects were greatest in patients with highly active disease 
and that benefit might be expected in other relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. In a follow-up study 
for up to a further 2 years, benefit of the original treatment was maintained but there seemed no 
additional benefit from giving more than 2 courses of Mavenclad treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Mavenclad? 
The most common side effects with Mavenclad are lymphopenia (reduction in lymphocytes, which may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people) and infections with herpes zoster virus, in up to 1 patient in 10. 
Rashes, hair loss and lowered counts of another type of white blood cell, neutrophils, may also affect 
up to 1 patient in 10. For the full list of all side effects reported with Mavenclad, see the package 
leaflet. 
Effects on lymphocytes reduce the body’s immune defence against infections and cancer: Mavenclad 
must not be given to patients with active long-term infections such as tuberculosis or hepatitis, nor to 
patients with HIV infection or whose immune defences are weakened for other reasons such as 
treatment with medicines that suppress the immune system. It must not be given to patients with 
active cancers. Treatment must also be avoided in patients whose kidney function is moderately or 
severely reduced, and in women who are pregnant or breast feeding. For the full list of restrictions, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Mavenclad approved? 
Mavenclad has been shown to reduce relapse rates and delay disease progression in patients with 
relapsing multiple sclerosis. This appeared to be most marked in patients with highly active disease, in 
whom the clinical benefits were considered to outweigh the risks of a severe long-term lowering in 
lymphocyte numbers, which increases the risk of infection and possibly of cancer. In addition, the fact 
that Mavenclad is given by mouth, and requires only 2 short courses 12 months apart, offers an 
Mavenclad  
EMA/405631/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
advantage to patients. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Mavenclad’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mavenclad? 
The company that markets Mavenclad will provide information on the medicine for healthcare 
professionals and patients, including advice on the side effects and safety concerns, the need for 
monitoring before and during treatment, and on pregnancy prevention and effective contraception in 
both female and male patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mavenclad have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Mavenclad 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mavenclad on 22 August 2017. 
The full EPAR for Mavenclad can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Mavenclad, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2017. 
Mavenclad  
EMA/405631/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
