Part VI:  Summary of the Risk Management Plan
Summary of risk management plan for Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.  
The RMP details important risks of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, how these risks can be 
minimized, and how more information will be obtained about 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and 
patients on how glecaprevir/pibrentasvir should be used.
This summary of the RMP for glecaprevir/pibrentasvir should be read in the context 
of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all of which are part of the European Public Assessment 
Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's RMP.
I  The Medicine and What it Is Used For
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is authorized for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection in adults and children aged 3 years and older (see SmPC for the full 
indication).  It contains glecaprevir/pibrentasvir as the active substance and it is 
given by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's benefits can 
be found in glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's EPAR, including in its plain-language 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine's webpage:
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines
/004430/human_med_002151.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124
II  Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important risks of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, together with measures to minimize 
such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine's packaging;

 The authorized pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine's legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR) assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is 
not yet available, it is listed under "missing information" below.
II.A  List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely administered.  Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.  Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term 
use of the medicine).
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
None
None
Missing information
Safety in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh B)
II.B  Summary of Important Risks
Missing information:  Safety in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh B)
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
• SmPC Section 4.2 - Posology and method of 
administration, hepatic impairment section, 
provides information that advises that the use of 
GLE/PIB is not recommended in patients with 
moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B).
• SmPC Section 4.4 - Special warnings and 
precautions for use, advises that the use of 
Maviret is not recommended in patients with 
moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B).
• Restricted medical prescription.
o Use of treatment should be initiated and 
supervised by specialists.
Additional risk minimization measures:
None.
II.C  Post-Authorization Development Plan
II.C.1  Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no ongoing studies that are conditions of the marketing authorization.
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan
There are no other ongoing studies that are part of a post-authorization 
development plan.
