EMA/263042/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004430 
Maviret (glecaprevir / pibrentasvir) 
An overview of Maviret and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Maviret and what is it used for? 
Maviret is an antiviral medicine used to treat adults and children from 3 years of age with chronic 
(long-term) hepatitis C, an infectious disease that affects the liver, which is caused by the hepatitis C 
virus.  
Maviret contains the active substances glecaprevir and pibrentasvir. 
How is Maviret used? 
Maviret can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of patients with hepatitis C virus infection.  
For adults, adolescents aged 12 and older, and children weighing at least 45 kg, Maviret is available as 
tablets that contain 100 mg glecaprevir and 40 mg pibrentasvir. The recommended dose is three 
tablets once a day. For children between 3 and 12 years old weighing between 12 and 45 kg, Maviret 
is available in sachets of granules that contain 50 mg glecaprevir and 20 mg pibrentasvir, with the 
recommended dose dependent on weight. Both tablets and granules should be taken with food and 
treatment lasts 8, 12 or 16 weeks.  
The duration of treatment depends on the HCV variety (genotype), whether patients have liver 
cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) or whether they have received previous treatments with pegylated 
interferon and ribavirin, with or without sofosbuvir, or sofosbuvir and ribavirin (other medicines for 
hepatitis C).  
For more information about using Maviret, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Maviret work? 
The active substances in Maviret, glecaprevir and pibrentasvir, block two proteins essential for the 
hepatitis C virus to multiply. Glecaprevir blocks the action of a protein called NS3/4A protease, while 
pibrentasvir blocks a protein called NS5A. By blocking these proteins, Maviret stops the hepatitis C 
virus from multiplying and infecting new cells. 
What benefits of Maviret have been shown in studies? 
There are 6 genotypes of the hepatitis C virus and Maviret has been shown to be effective at clearing 
all genotypes from the blood.  
In 8 main studies involving over 2,300 adults with hepatitis C, 99% of patients with genotype 1, the 
most common genotype, without cirrhosis, tested negative for the virus after 8 weeks of Maviret 
treatment and 97% patients with genotype 1 with cirrhosis were negative after 8 or 12 weeks. A 
negative test result means that the virus was not found. Results were similar for genotypes 2 and 4-6. 
The medicine’s effectiveness in clearing genotype 3 was slightly lower than for other genotypes (95%).  
In a study in 47 children aged between 12 and 18 years with genotypes 1 to 4 and without cirrhosis, 
all patients tested negative for the virus after 12 weeks of treatment.  
The same study investigated the use of Maviret in children between the ages of 3 and 11 without 
cirrhosis and with genotypes 1-4 of the hepatitis C virus. It showed that 98% of the 62 participants 
who received the final recommended dose tested negative after 8 weeks if they had not previously 
taken other treatments or after 12 to 16 weeks if they had previously been using interferon 
treatments.  
Results in children also showed that the way the medicine was absorbed, modified and removed from 
the body was similar to that in adults. Based on data available in adults, it is expected that Maviret is 
also effective in children with genotypes 5 and 6. 
What are the risks associated with Maviret? 
The most common side effects with Maviret (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are headache 
and tiredness.  
Maviret must not be used in patients with severely reduced liver function. It must also not be used 
together with certain medicines such as:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
atorvastatin, simvastatin (medicines for lowering cholesterol levels in the blood);  
dabigatran etexilate (a medicine for preventing blood clots);  
ethinyl estradiol-containing products (such as contraceptive medicines);  
rifampicin (antibiotic usually used to treat tuberculosis);  
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone (medicines for epilepsy);  
•  St John’s wort (a herbal remedy used for depression and anxiety).  
For the full list of restrictions and side effects with Maviret, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Maviret authorised in the EU? 
Maviret has been shown to be highly effective in clearing the hepatitis C virus from the blood, 
particularly in patients who have not been treated previously or who do not have cirrhosis. The fact 
that Maviret can be given without ribavirin and without dose adjustments in patients with severe 
Maviret (glecaprevir / pibrentasvir)  
EMA/263042/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
kidney problems is a further advantage in comparison with similar medicines. With regard to its safety, 
Maviret’s pattern of side effects raises no particular concern. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Maviret’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Maviret? 
The company that markets Maviret will carry out a study in patients who previously have had liver 
cancer to evaluate the risk of liver cancer returning after treatment with direct-acting antivirals such as 
Maviret. This study is being carried out in light of data suggesting that patients treated with medicines 
belonging to the same class as Maviret and who have had liver cancer could be at risk of their cancer 
returning early. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Maviret have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Maviret are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Maviret are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Maviret 
Maviret received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 July 2017. 
Further information on Maviret can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Maviret.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2021. 
Maviret (glecaprevir / pibrentasvir)  
EMA/263042/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
