EMA/551282/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002643 
Mekinist (trametinib) 
An overview of Mekinist and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mekinist and what is it used for? 
Mekinist is a cancer medicine used to treat adults whose cancer cells have a specific genetic mutation 
(change) in their genes called 'BRAF V600'. It is used for the treatment of: 
•  melanoma (a skin cancer) that has spread or cannot be removed surgically. Mekinist is used on 
its own or in combination with another cancer medicine, dabrafenib; 
• 
• 
advanced (stage III) melanoma after surgery for it. Mekinist is used in combination with 
dabrafenib; 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer. It is used in combination with dabrafenib. 
Mekinist contains the active substance trametinib.  
How is Mekinist used? 
Treatment with Mekinist must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in the use of cancer 
medicines. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Mekinist is available as tablets (0.5 and 2 mg). The dose of Mekinist is 2 mg once a day taken on an 
empty stomach (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) and at around the same time every 
day. 
Mekinist can be continued for as long as the patient benefits from it. After surgery for advanced 
melanoma, treatment is normally continued for 12 months unless the disease comes back. Treatment 
may need to be interrupted or stopped, or the dose reduced, if certain side effects occur.  
For more information about using Mekinist, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Mekinist work? 
In melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer with the BRAF V600 mutation, an abnormal form of the 
protein BRAF is present, which switches on another protein called MEK involved in stimulating cell 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
division. This leads cancers to develop by allowing uncontrolled division of cells. The active substance 
in Mekinist, trametinib, works by blocking MEK and by preventing its activation by BRAF, thereby 
slowing down the growth and spread of the cancer.  
What benefits of Mekinist have been shown in studies? 
Mekinist has been studied in patients whose cancer had the BRAF V600 mutation. 
Melanoma 
Mekinist was more effective than the cancer medicines dacarbazine or paclitaxel at controlling 
melanoma that had spread to other parts of the body or could not be removed surgically. This was 
based on a main study involving 322 patients who received either Mekinist or the comparator medicine 
and which measured how long patients lived until their disease got worse. Patients taking Mekinist 
lived on average for 4.8 months before their disease getting worse, compared with 1.5 months for 
patients given dacarbazine or paclitaxel. 
In an additional study Mekinist did not show any benefit when given to patients who did not respond to 
previous treatment with another cancer medicine that blocked BRAF. 
Two additional studies on melanoma that had spread to other parts of the body or could not be 
removed surgically looked at using the combination of Mekinist and dabrafenib. In one study, 423 
patients were given either the combination or dabrafenib alone. Patients given the combination lived 
for 11 months without their disease worsening compared with 8.8 months for those given dabrafenib 
alone. In a second study involving 704 patients, Mekinist with dabrafenib was compared with another 
medicine for melanoma, vemurafenib. Patients given the combination lived on average 25.6 months 
versus 18 months with vemurafenib.  
In a study involving 870 patients with stage III melanoma that had been removed surgically, the 
combination of Mekinist and dabrafenib given for 1 year was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). Some 40% of patients treated with the combination either died or had their disease come 
back after an average of about 3.5 years compared with 59% of patients receiving placebo.   
Non-small cell lung cancer 
In one main study, 171 patients with non-small cell lung cancer received either dabrafenib combined 
with Mekinist or dabrafenib alone. The main measure of effectiveness was the percentage of patients 
who responded completely or partially to treatment. Response to treatment was assessed using body 
scans and patients’ clinical data. The use of Mekinist and dabrafenib led to a response in over 60% of 
the patients, compared with 23% of patients using dabrafenib alone. 
What are the risks associated with Mekinist? 
The most common side effects with Mekinist (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are rash, 
diarrhoea, tiredness, peripheral oedema (swelling, especially of ankles and feet), nausea and 
acneiform dermatitis (acne-like inflammation of the skin). 
When Mekinist is taken in combination with dabrafenib the most common side effects (which may 
affect more than 1 in 5 people) are fever, tiredness, nausea, chills, headache, diarrhoea, vomiting, 
joint pain and rash. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Mekinist, see the package leaflet. 
MekinistMekinist (trametinib)  
EMA/551282/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Mekinist authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Mekinist’s benefits in cancers that carry the BRAF V600 
mutation are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency considered 
that Mekinist when used alone or in combination with dabrafenib had shown a clinically relevant benefit 
in patients with non-small cell lung cancer or with melanoma that had spread or could not be removed 
surgically. The Agency also found it to be of benefit in patients with advanced melanoma that had been 
removed surgically. Mekinist’s side effects were considered acceptable and manageable with 
appropriate measures. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mekinist? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mekinist have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mekinist are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Mekinist are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Mekinist 
Mekinist received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 June 2014. 
Further information on Mekinist can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
MekinistMekinist (trametinib)  
EMA/551282/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
