Summary of risk management plan for Circadin/Melatonin 
Neurim (melatonin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Circadin/Melatonin Neurim. The RMP details 
important risks of Circadin/Melatonin Neurim, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Circadin's/Melatonin Neurim’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Circadin's/Melatonin Neurim’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Circadin/Melatonin Neurim 
should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Circadin/Melatonin Neurim should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Circadin's/Melatonin Neurim’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Circadin/Melatonin Neurim is authorised for primary insomnia in patients aged 55 years or above (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains melatonin as the active substance and it is given by oral 
tablet. 
Further information about the evaluation of Circadin’s/Melatonin Neurim’s benefits can be found in 
Circadin’s/Melatonin Neurim’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/circadin 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/melatonin-neurim 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Circadin/Melatonin Neurim, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Circadin's/Melatonin Neurim’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Circadin/Melatonin Neurim is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Circadin/Melatonin Neurim are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Circadin/Melatonin Neurim. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Confusion 
Hallucinations 
Dyspnoea 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy/lactation 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Confusion 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical trial and post-marketing case reports; published studies in 
the scientific and medical literature. 
Confusion is a possible consequence of lack of sleep which would be 
an underlying risk for any patient receiving Circadin/Melatonin 
Neurim. 
Additionally, any pre-existing condition that would pre-dispose a 
patient to confusion would be a strong predictor for confusion 
associated with Circadin/Melatonin Neurim.  Case NEU-001063-
2017 contained a specific history of confusion, and case NEU-0062-
2010 contained a history of hallucinations.  In 2 of the 27 reports of 
confusion the patients had Alzheimer’s disease which is a very clear 
confounding factor (NEU-0062-2010 and NEU-0147-2011).  
Two cases included histories of drug abuse.  Case NEU-0264-2010 
involved abuse of lorazepam and alprazolam, and 
Circadin/Melatonin Neurim was being taken to facilitate their 
withdrawal. Case NEU-001202-2017 involved cannabis abuse and 
benzodiazepine withdrawal. 
A further 6 cases contained histories of anxiety or depression: NEU-
0062-2010, NEU-0304-2010, NEU-0035-2013, NEU-0105-2014, 
NEU-0249-2014 and NEU-001037-2015. 
In case NEU-0277-2010 it was reported that the patient had not 
experienced any similar adverse events in the past and none of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
their concomitant medications would be implicated (anastrozole, 
caffeine / magnesium salicylate, calcium / vitamin D, estriol, 
felodipine, simvastatin, thyroxine, zolpidem). 
Therefore, it can be concluded that while a pre-disposing psychiatric 
history may increase the risk of confusion associated with 
Circadin/Melatonin Neurim it is not a necessary factor. 
However, there is no clear dose relationship.  In 8 of the reports 
(8 / 27, 29.6%), the patients were receiving 2 mg daily of 
Circadin/Melatonin Neurim which is the approved daily dose.  In 
case NEU-0105-2014, the patient was in a double-blind clinical trial, 
but the SAEs were not considered to be related as the patient was 
receiving placebo.  However, in report NEU-0105-2014 the patient 
reported that the 2 mg dose was accompanied by poor sleep and an 
out-of-body experience, but when the dose was increased to 4 mg 
the patient experienced “the worst night of my life” alongside 
confusion, anxiety, sweating, nightmares and restlessness.  In 
cases NEU-001151-2015 and NEU-001411-2019 the patients were 
receiving a melatonin daily dose of 3 mg, but it is not confirmed 
that these patients were actually receiving Circadin/Melatonin 
Neurim.  In cases NEU-001557-2019 and NEU-001765-2019, the 
patients took overdoses of melatonin, but they also took at least 
one other medication in overdose. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Pack size of 7, 20, 21 or 30 tablets 
Prescription-only medicine 
Important potential risk: Dyspnoea 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical trial and post-marketing case reports; published studies in 
the scientific and medical literature. 
There were no common risk factors to any of the 20 patients 
experiencing dyspnoea associated with Circadin/Melatonin Neurim.  
Only 3 cases involved underlying respiratory disorders: NEU-0145-
2010 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease;  NEU-001533-2019 
asthma and bronchiectasis; NEU-001890-2019 asthma and non-
productive cough.  Case NEU-0015-2013 involved an 85 year old 
obese patient with a history of cardiac failure and Parkinson’s 
disease.  In case NEU-001009-2015, amisulpride and clomipramine 
were started at exactly the same time as Circadin/Melatonin Neurim 
and the time to onset of the dyspnoea was 2 days later.  Also, all 3 
drugs were stopped at the same time and the dyspnoea resolved.  
However, dyspnoea is not a recognized undesirable effect of 
amisulpride or clomipramine.  In case NEU-001005-2016, the 
patient was receiving amoxicillin presumably for an infection.  If the 
infection was respiratory in nature then this would be a confounding 
factor.  Also, the patient was receiving an unspecified brand of 
melatonin and so the possibility of a reaction to a different excipient 
cannot be ruled out. 
In the discussion on mechanism above, it is hypothesized that 
dyspnoea associated with Circadin/Melatonin Neurim may be a 
symptom of hypersensitivity.  Therefore, previous hypersensitivity 
reactions to medications could be a possible predictive factor. 
There is no clear dose relationship.  The dose was reported in 7 of 
the 20 cases (35%) and was 2 mg daily in 6 of them which is the 
approved dose for melatonin.  In the 6th case (NEU-001062-2015) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the dose was 3 mg but the brand of melatonin was unspecified 
making it unlikely to be Circadin/Melatonin Neurim.  Cases NEU-
001036-2016 and NEU-001890-2017 originated from clinical trials 
and the treatments were blinded. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Pack size of 7, 20, 21 or 30 tablets 
Prescription-only medicine 
Important potential risk: Hallucinations 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical trial and post-marketing case reports; published studies in 
the scientific and medical literature. 
Strong predictive factors for developing hallucinations include an 
underlying medical history of hallucination or taking concomitant 
medications which are known to cause hallucinations.  For the 32 
cases of hallucinations, 16 (50%) contained either confounding 
medical history (Alzheimer’s disease, previous hallucinations and 
psychosis) or medications which are known to cause hallucinations 
(duloxetine, fluoxetine guanfacine, methylphenidate, metoprolol, 
midazolam, oxycodone, promethazine, sertraline, zolpidem and 
zopiclone). 
There was no clear association with dose.  In 17 cases (53.1%) 
either no dose was specified or a dose size was specified but not a 
dosing schedule.  Only 5 cases (19.2%) clearly stated that the dose 
was 2 mg daily.  In case NEU-001028-2017, the patient developed 
hallucinations after receiving Circadin/Melatonin Neurim at 8 mg 
per dose (but with an unspecified dose schedule), but the 
hallucinations resolved when the dose was reduced to 4 mg per 
dose.  In 6 cases that involved multi-drug overdoses, the size of 
the melatonin overdose was not specified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Pack size of 7, 20, 21 or 30 tablets 
Prescription-only medicine 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy / lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6 and PL section 2 where advice is given in 
relation to pregnancy and breastfeeding 
Pack size of 7, 20, 21 or 30 tablets 
Prescription-only medicine 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Circadin/Melatonin Neurim. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Circadin/Melatonin Neurim. 
 
 
