EMA/773299/2013 
EMEA/H/C/002766 
EPAR summary for the public 
Memantine Accord 
memantine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Memantine Accord. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Memantine Accord. 
For practical information about using Memantine Accord, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Memantine Accord and what is it used for? 
Memantine Accord is a medicine that contains the active substance memantine. It is used to treat 
patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease, a type of dementia (a brain disorder) that 
gradually affects memory, intellectual ability and behaviour. 
Memantine Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Memantine Accord is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Axura. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Memantine Accord used? 
Memantine Accord is available as tablets (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg) and can only be obtained 
with a prescription. 
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Treatment should only be started if a caregiver is available who will 
regularly monitor the use of Memantine Accord by the patient. 
Memantine Accord should be given once a day at the same time every day. To prevent side effects, the 
dose of Memantine Accord is gradually increased over the first three weeks of treatment: during the 
first week, the daily dose is 5 mg; in the second week, it is 10 mg; and during the third week, it is 15 
mg. From week four onwards, the recommended maintenance dose is 20 mg once a day. The tolerance 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
and dose should be assessed within three months after starting treatment, and from then on the 
benefits of continuing treatment with Memantine Accord should be re-assessed on a regular basis. The 
dose may need to be reduced in patients who have moderate or severe problems with their kidneys. 
How does Memantine Accord work? 
The active substance in Memantine Accord, memantine, is an antidementia medicine. The cause of 
Alzheimer’s disease is unknown, but memory loss in the disease is believed to be due to a disturbance 
of message signals in the brain. 
Memantine works by blocking types of receptors called N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, to 
which the neurotransmitter glutamate normally attaches. Neurotransmitters are chemicals in the 
nervous system that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. Changes in the way 
glutamate transmits signals within the brain have been linked to the memory loss seen in Alzheimer’s 
disease. By blocking NMDA receptors, memantine improves the transmission of signals in the brain and 
reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease. 
How has Memantine Accord been studied? 
The company provided data on the medicine’s solubility, composition and absorption in the body. No 
additional studies in patients were required as Memantine Accord was shown to have comparable 
quality and is considered to be bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Axura. ‘Bioequivalent’ means 
that the medicines are expected to produce the same levels of the active substance in the body.  
What are the benefits and risks of Memantine Accord? 
Because Memantine Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Memantine Accord approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Memantine Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and is 
considered bioequivalent to Axura. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Axura, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Memantine Accord be approved for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Memantine Accord? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Memantine Accord is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Memantine Accord, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients.   
Other information about Memantine Accord 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Memantine Accord on 04 December 2013. 
The full EPAR for Memantine Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Memantine Accord  
EMA/773299/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Memantine Accord, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2013. 
Memantine Accord  
EMA/773299/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
