EMEA/H/C/002671 
EPAR summary for the public 
Memantine ratiopharm 
memantine hydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Memantine ratiopharm. It 
explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its 
conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Memantine ratiopharm. 
For practical information about using Memantine ratiopharm, patients should read the package leaflet 
or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Memantine ratiopharm and what is it used for? 
Memantine ratiopharm is a medicine that contains the active substance memantine hydrochloride. It is 
used to treat patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease. Alzheimer’s disease is a type of 
dementia (a brain disorder) that gradually affects memory, intellectual ability and behaviour. 
Memantine ratiopharm is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Memantine ratiopharm is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Ebixa. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Memantine ratiopharm used? 
Memantine ratiopharm is available as tablets (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg) and can only be 
obtained with a prescription.  
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Treatment should only be started if a caregiver is available who will 
regularly monitor the use of Memantine ratiopharm by the patient. 
Memantine ratiopharm should be given once a day at the same time every day. To prevent side 
effects, the dose of Memantine ratiopharm is gradually increased over the first three weeks of 
treatment: during the first week, the dose is 5 mg; in the second week, it is 10 mg; and during the 
third week, it is 15 mg. From week four onwards, the recommended maintenance dose is 20 mg once 
a day. The tolerance and dose should be assessed within three months after starting treatment, and 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
from then on the benefits of continuing treatment with Memantine ratiopharm should be re-assessed 
on a regular basis. The dose may need to be reduced in patients who have moderate or severe 
problems with their kidneys. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Memantine ratiopharm work? 
The active substance in Memantine ratiopharm, memantine hydrochloride, is an antidementia 
medicine. The cause of Alzheimer’s disease is unknown, but memory loss in the disease is believed to 
be due to a disturbance of message signals in the brain. 
Memantine works by blocking special types of receptor called NMDA receptors, to which the 
neurotransmitter glutamate normally attaches. Neurotransmitters are chemicals in the nervous system 
that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. Changes in the way glutamate transmits 
signals within the brain have been linked to the memory loss seen in Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, 
overstimulation of the NMDA receptors can result in cell damage or death. By blocking NMDA 
receptors, memantine improves the transmission of signals in the brain and reduces the symptoms of 
Alzheimer’s disease. 
How has Memantine ratiopharm been studied? 
Because Memantine ratiopharm is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Ebixa. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Memantine ratiopharm? 
Because Memantine ratiopharm is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Memantine ratiopharm approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Memantine ratiopharm has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Ebixa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Ebixa, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Memantine ratiopharm be approved for use in the 
EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Memantine ratiopharm? 
Safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet 
for Memantine ratiopharm, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.   
Other information about Memantine ratiopharm 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Memantine ratiopharm on 13 June 2013. 
The full EPAR for Memantine ratiopharm can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Memantine ratiopharm  
EMA/200878/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Memantine ratiopharm, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in June 2013. 
Memantine ratiopharm  
EMA/200878/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
