EMEA/H/C/002711 
EPAR summary for the public 
Memantine Merz  
memantine hydrochloride  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Memantine Merz. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Memantine Merz. 
What is Memantine Merz? 
Memantine Merz is a medicine that contains the active substance memantine hydrochloride. It is 
available as tablets (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg). Memantine Merz is also available as an oral 
solution, which is supplied with a pump that delivers 5 mg memantine hydrochloride with each 
activation. 
This medicine is the same as Axura, which is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The 
company that makes Axura has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Memantine Merz 
(‘informed consent’). 
What is Memantine Merz used for? 
Memantine Merz is used to treat patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease. Alzheimer’s 
disease is a type of dementia (a brain disorder) that gradually affects memory, intellectual ability and 
behaviour. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Memantine Merz used? 
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Treatment should only be started if a caregiver is available who will 
regularly monitor the use of Memantine Merz by the patient. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Memantine Merz should be given once a day, at the same time every day. To prevent side effects, the 
dose of Memantine Merz is gradually increased over the first three weeks of treatment: during the first 
week, the dose is 5 mg; in the second week, it is 10 mg; and during the third week, it is 15 mg. From 
week four onwards, the recommended maintenance dose is 20 mg once a day. The tolerance and dose 
should be assessed within 3 months after starting treatment, and from then on the benefits of 
continuing treatment with Memantine Merz should be re-assessed on a regular basis. The dose may 
need to be reduced in patients who have moderate or severe problems with their kidneys. If the 
solution is used, the dose should first be pumped onto a spoon or into a glass of water. It should not 
be poured or pumped directly into the mouth. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Memantine Merz work? 
The active substance in Memantine Merz, memantine hydrochloride, is an antidementia medicine. The 
cause of Alzheimer’s disease is unknown, but memory loss in the disease is believed to be due to a 
disturbance of message signals in the brain. 
Memantine works by blocking special types of receptor called NMDA receptors, to which the 
neurotransmitter glutamate normally attaches. Neurotransmitters are chemicals in the nervous system 
that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. Changes in the way glutamate transmits 
signals within the brain have been linked to the memory loss seen in Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, 
overstimulation of the NMDA receptors can result in cell damage or death. By blocking NMDA 
receptors, memantine improves the transmission of signals in the brain and reduces the symptoms of 
Alzheimer’s disease. 
How has Memantine Merz been studied? 
Memantine Merz has been studied in three main studies including a total of 1,125 patients with 
Alzheimer’s disease, some of whom had taken other medicines for their disease in the past. 
The first study involved 252 patients with moderately severe to severe disease, while the other two 
involved a total of 873 patients with mild to moderate disease. Memantine Merz was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) over 24 to 28 weeks. The main measures of effectiveness were the 
change in symptoms in three main areas: functional (the degree of disability), cognitive (the ability to 
think, learn and remember) and global (a combination of several areas including general function, 
cognitive symptoms, behaviour and the ability to carry out everyday activities). 
Memantine Merz was also studied in three additional studies including a total of 1,186 patients with 
mild to severe disease. 
What benefit has Memantine Merz shown during the studies? 
Memantine Merz was more effective than placebo at controlling the symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease. 
In the study of moderately severe to severe disease, patients taking Memantine Merz had fewer 
symptoms than those taking placebo after 28 weeks, as measured on both global and functional 
scores. In the two studies of mild to moderate disease, patients on Memantine Merz had less severe 
symptoms after 24 weeks, as measured on the global and cognitive scores. However, when these 
results were considered along with those of the three additional studies, it was noted that the effect of 
Memantine Merz was smaller in patients with mild disease. 
Memantine Merz  
EMA/650625/2012 
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Memantine Merz? 
The most common side effects with Memantine Merz (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
somnolence (sleepiness), dizziness, balance disorders, hypertension (high blood pressure), dyspnoea 
(difficulty breathing), constipation, headache, raised liver function test results and drug 
hypersensitivity (allergy to the medicine). For the full list of all side effects reported with Memantine 
Merz, see the package leaflet. 
Memantine Merz must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to memantine 
hydrochloride or any of the other ingredients.  
Why has Memantine Merz been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Memantine Merz’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Memantine Merz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Memantine Merz on 22 November 2012.  
The full EPAR for Memantine Merz can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Memantine Merz, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in November 2012. 
Memantine Merz  
EMA/650625/2012 
Page 3/3
 
 
 
