Summary of risk management plan for MENQUADFI (Meningococcal Polysaccharide 
[Serogroups A, C, Y and W-135] Tetanus Toxoid Conjugate Vaccine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for MENQUADFI. The RMP details important 
risks of MENQUADFI, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about MENQUADFI’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
MENQUADFI’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how MENQUADFI should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for MENQUADFI should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of  
MENQUADFI’s RMP. 
VI.1.   THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
MENQUADFI is authorized for active immunization of individuals from the age of 12 months and older, 
against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with available official recommendations (see SmPC for 
the full indication). It contains 10 μg of each of the meningococcal polysaccharide serogroups A, C, W 
and Y as the active substance and it is given by intramuscular (IM) route, preferably in the deltoid region 
or anterolateral thigh depending on the recipient’s age and muscle mass.  
Further information about the evaluation of MENQUADFI’s benefits can be found in MENQUADFI’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/menquadfi  
VI.2. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of MENQUADFI, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about MENQUADFI’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.   
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs;  
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
 
 
 
 
 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;  
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or without 
prescription) can help to minimize its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of MENQUADFI is not yet available, it is listed under 
“missing information” outlined in the next section. 
VI.2.1. List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of MENQUADFI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof 
of a link with the use of MENQUADFI. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet 
and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine) 
Table 1 - List of important risks and missing information   
Important identified risk  
None  
Important potential risk  
None  
Missing information  
Use during pregnancy  
Co-administration with MenB vaccine in infants and toddlers  
VI.2.2. Summary of important risks 
Table 2 - Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Co-administration with MenB vaccine in infants and toddlers   
Missing information: Co-administration with MenB vaccine in infants and toddlers   
Risk minimization 
measures  
Routine risk minimization measures:  
SmPC Section 4.5.   
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Safety, immunogenicity and co-administration with MenB vaccine 
study in infants and toddlers (MET52).  
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.  
Missing information: Use during pregnancy 
Risk minimization 
measures  
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Routine risk minimization measures:  
SmPC Section 4.6.  
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Pregnancy registry (MEQ00070).  
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan. 
VI.2.3. Post-authorisation development plan 
 VI.2.3.1.Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of  
MENQUADFI.  
VI.2.3.2.Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
 Table 4 - Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Safety, immunogenicity and co-administration with MenB vaccine study in infants and 
toddlers (MET52) (Cat. 3)  
Purpose of the study: This study evaluates the safety and immunogenicity of MenACYW conjugate 
vaccine when administered concomitantly with licensed MenB vaccine (BEXSERO) and other routine 
pediatric vaccines as part of the national immunization schedule in healthy infants and toddlers in the 
UK. 
Pregnancy registry (MEQ00070) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study: This study assesses maternal, obstetrical, pregnancy, and neonatal and infant 
outcomes among women vaccinated with MenACYW conjugate vaccine during pregnancy or in the 
30 days preceding their last menstrual period or estimated date of conception.  
REFERENCES 
None 
 
 
 
   
 
      
