European Medicines Agency  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Menveo 
Meningococcal Group A, C, W135 and Y Conjugate vaccine 
Common Name:  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001095 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................. 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION....................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 15 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 22 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 54 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 56 
Page 2/58 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. submitted on 31 October 2008 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Menveo, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application composed of 
administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own 
tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  Menveo is indicated for active immunization of 
adolescents (from 11 years of age) and adults at risk of exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, 
W135 and Y, to prevent invasive disease. The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official 
recommendations. 
Information on Paediatric requirements: 
Pursuant  to  Article  7,  the  application  included  an  EMEA  Decision  P/103/2008  for  the  following 
condition:  
•  Meningococcal meningitis 
Invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP)  
The PIP is not yet completed.  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP. The Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-
clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
CHMP (Scientific) Advice was given on several occasions: 
(cid:131)  EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/501998/2006 (dd. 2006-12-14) (initial SA regarding quality, non-clinical and 
clinical aspects) 
(cid:131)  EMEA/CHMP/SWAP/155074/2007 (dd. 2007-04-26) (Follow-up S.A. on clinical development plan in 
children aged 2 – 10 years) 
(cid:131)  EMEA/231862/2007 (dd. 2007-05-31) (Clarification letter of follow-up S.A.) 
(cid:131)  EMEA Pre-submission meeting (2008-06-12) 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Page 3/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur:   Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Co-Rapporteur: Liv Mathiesen 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 31 October 2008. 
The procedure started on 19 November 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  5  February 
2009.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  6 
February 2009. In accordance with  Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur 
and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in less than 80 days.   
During the meeting on 16-19 March 2009, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 19 
March 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  23  July 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 7 September 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on 21-24  September  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant.  
The  summary  report  of  the  inspection  carried  out  at  the  following  site(s)  Novartis  Vaccines  and 
Diagnostics S.r.l Bellaria-Rosia 53018 Sovicille (Siena) Italy between 14 and 18 September 2009 
was issued on 3 december 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 16 November 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 30 November 2009. 
During the meeting on 14-17 December 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Menveo  on  17  December  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 December. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
Meningococcal disease forms a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and sepsis in both industrialised and 
developing  countries  worldwide.    The  causative  agent  is  a  gram-negative  bacterium:    Neisseria 
meningitidis. Asymptomatic colonization of the upper respiratory tract by encapsulated N.meningitidis is 
common,  however,  only  a  small  percentage  of  colonized  persons  develop  disease  (Vogel,  2001).  In 
Europe,  incidence  rates  of  meningococcal  disease  have  been  found  in  the  range  of  0.4  to  4.9  cases  per 
100.000 inhabitants per year (Roberts et al., 2007). Invasive infection by N.meningitidis usually manifests 
as  bacteraemia  and/or  meningitis,  and  less  commonly  as  septic  arthritis,  myocarditis,  pericarditis, 
endophthalmitis,  or  pneumonia  (Stephens  et  al.,  2007).  Other  signs  of  meningococcal  meningitis  may 
include  headache,  stiff  neck,  fever,  chills,  malaise,  and  shock.  The  case-fatality  rate  for  meningococcal 
disease ranges from 2% to 40%, being highest in patients with meningococcemia and lowest in patients 
with mild forms of bacteraemia or uncomplicated meningitis (Andersen, 1978 & Greenwood et al., 1987). 
Page 4/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At  least  13  meningococcal  serogroups  have  been  identified  based  on  differences  in  capsular 
polysaccharides. Five serogroups (A, B, C, Y and W135) are responsible for the vast majority of cases of 
meningococcal  disease  worldwide.  The  distribution  of  these  serogroups  varies  by  geographic  region. 
Serogroup B and C strains are currently the most prevalent in Europe, and B, C and Y in North America, 
(Stephens  et  al.,  2007;  Roberts  et  al.  2007).  Serogroup  A  strain  is  common  in  developing  countries 
(Greenwood, 1987). Serogroup W135 outbreaks have been reported in several countries among pilgrims 
attending  the  Hajj  (yearly  pilgrimage  to  Medina  &  Mekka),  and  close  contacts  (Sandell  et  al.,  2001; 
Aguilera et al. 2002; Hahne  et al., 2002; Taha et al., 2002). 
Meningococcal disease is predominantly a disease of infants and young children (6 months–2 years), due 
to  acquirement  of natural immunity  from around 2 years onwards. The presence of maternal antibodies 
provides neonates with passive immunity. Increased disease incidence can also occur in adolescents and 
adults. Disease among adolescents and young adults is more a consequence of social behaviour. A known 
risk  factor  for  meningococcal  disease  is  clustering  of  individuals,  which  potentially  results  to  quick  
transfer  strains.  This  is  believed  to  explain  high  rates  of  meningococcal  disease  among  new  military 
recruits  during  basic  training  prior  to  the  institution  of  routine  vaccinations,  and  among  matriculating 
college students residing in dormitories (Goldschneider et al., 1969a; Goldschneider et al., 1969b; CDC, 
2000;  Bruce  et  al.,  2001).  Additionally,  persons  travelling  to  regions  where  other  serogroups  are 
circulating  are  at  increased  risk  of  meningococcal disease,  as  illustrated  by  outbreaks  of  meningococcal 
disease due to serogroup W135 following the Hajj in 2000 . 
Meningococcal polysaccharide vaccines (based on purified meningococcal capsular polysaccharides) are 
available  for  prevention  of  disease  caused  by  serogroups  A,  C,  W  and  Y  strains  of  N.meningitidis. 
Serogroup  A  &  C  polysaccharides  are  safe  and  immunogenic,  with  clinical  efficacy  rates  of  85%  and 
higher among children aged 5 years or older, and adults. Serogroup Y & W135 polysaccharides are also 
safe and immunogenic in older children and adults, although clinical protection has not been documented 
(Rosenstein et al., 2001). A major downfall of the polysaccharide vaccines is their relative ineffectiveness 
in young children, and the short duration of protection if achieved in these age groups (CDC, 1997). In 
addition,  studies  have  suggested  that  multiple  doses  of  serogroup  A  &  C  polysaccharides  may  cause 
immunologic tolerance (Granoff et al., 1998; MacLennan, et al. 2001).  
The  possibility  of  immunologic  hyporesponsiveness  following  repeated  exposure  to  unconjugated 
meningococcal  polysaccharide  vaccines  is  of  potential  concern.  This  has  been  described  among  infants 
and older individuals for serogroup C meningococci, but also for other than serogroup C meningococcal 
polysaccharides (MacLennan et al., 1999; Granoff et al., 1998; Richmond et al., 2000; Keyserling et al., 
2005).  
Unlike meningococcal polysaccharide vaccines, vaccines conjugated to a protein antigen are thought to be 
immunogenic  in  young  children  and  infants  with  more  durable  immunity,  due  to  the  conversion  of  the 
immune response from a T-cell independent to a T-cell dependent one (Käyhty et al., 1994; Dintzis et al., 
1994).  This  has  been  demonstrated  for  conjugate  H  influenzae  type  B  vaccines,  and  similar  properties 
apply to licensed Streptococcus pneumoniae protein-conjugate vaccine and for the existing N meningitidis 
serogroup C conjugate vaccine (Granoff et al., 1998; Obaro et al., 2006). Data currently available from the 
UK  and  Canada,  estimate  the  clinical  effectiveness  in  adolescents  for  the  meningococcal  serogroup  C 
conjugate vaccine at 88% to 96% (Trotter et al., 2004; DeWals et al., 2007). A study from Spain estimated 
the effectiveness among children below 10 years of age at 94% (Larrauri et al., 2005). 
About the product 
Novartis Meningococcal ACWY conjugate vaccine (Menveo) belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic group 
of Meningococcal vaccines (ATC code: JO7AH). It is composed of four drug substances, MenA-CRM197, 
MenC-CRM197, MenW135-CRM197 and MenY-CRM197. The vaccine is presented in the form of one vial 
containing  the  lyophilised  MenA  Conjugate  Component  plus  excipients,  and  one  syringe  containing  the 
Page 5/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liquid MenCWY Conjugate Component plus excipients. The selected final formulation is made of 10-5-5-
5 μg per oligosaccharide of N. meningitidis serogroups A, C, W, and Y respectively, conjugated to Cross-
Reactive Material protein (CRM197) of Corynebacterium diphtheria per dose (0.5 ml). The pharmaceutical 
form  is  powder  and  solution  for  solution  for  injection.  The  vaccine  contains  no  adjuvant,  thiomersal  or 
preservatives.  
Within  Europe,  Menveo  would  be  intended  for  individuals  at  increased  risk  of  invasive  meningococcal 
disease,  such  as  travellers  and  individuals  clustered  together  in  close  proximity  (including matriculating 
university students and those in military service).  
The proposed therapeutic indication is: 
“Menveo is indicated for active immunization of adolescents (from 11 years of age) and adults at risk of 
exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y, to prevent invasive disease. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations.” 
Posology: 
Menveo vaccine should be administered as a single 0.5 ml injection. The need for, and timing of, a booster 
dose of Menveo has not yet been determined. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Menveo (Meningococcal Group A, C, W135 and Y Conjugate Vaccine) consists of one vial, containing 
the lyophilized MenA Conjugate Component, and one syringe containing the liquid MenCWY Conjugate 
Component.  The  selected  final  formulation  contains  10-5-5-5  µg  per  oligosaccharide  of  N.  meningitidis 
serogroups  A,  C,  W,  and  Y  respectively,  without  adjuvant.  The  pharmaceutical  form  is  powder  and 
solution for solution for injection. The dose is 0.5 ml (after reconstitution).  
Menveo consists of 4 drug substances: Meningococcal group A (or C, or W 135 or Y) oligosaccharides 
conjugated  to  Corynebacterium  diphtheriae  CRM197  protein  (abbreviated  to  MenA-CRM,  MenC-CRM, 
MenW-CRM or MenY-CRM Conjugate respectively). Each drug substance is prepared from two purified 
intermediates derived from bacterial fermentation:  
Corynebacterium  diphtheriae  Cross  Reactive  Material  197  (CRM197)  and  capsular  polysaccharide 
obtained from either Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W135 or Y. 
In summary, the drug substance part of Module 3 consists of nine separate sections, which are: 
-CRM197 (process intermediate) 
-MenA polysaccharide (process intermediate) 
-MenC polysaccharide (process intermediate) 
-MenW polysaccharide (process intermediate) 
-MenY polysaccharide (process intermediate) 
-MenA-CRM Conjugate (drug substance) 
-MenC-CRM Conjugate (drug substance) 
-MenW-CRM Conjugate (drug substance) 
-MenY-CRM Conjugate (drug substance) 
The drug product part consists of 2 separate sections: 
-MenA Lyophlized Conjugate Component (MenA Lyo) 
-MenCWY Liquid Conjugate Component (MenCWY Liquid) 
Page 6/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
The  tetravalent  MenACWY  conjugate  vaccine  consists  of  oligosaccharides  derived  from  capsular 
polysaccharides  of  Neisseria  meningitidis  serogroups  A,  C,  W  and  Y,  each  conjugated  to  the  CRM197 
carrier protein. 
Meningococcal polysaccharide is produced from the fermentation and purification of the Gram-negative 
diplococcus Neisseria meningitides serogroup A, C, W or Y. 
CRM 
The manufacturing of CRM197 is carried out at the Bellaria-Rosia site and testing occurs both at this and 
the Siena site.  
•  Manufacture: 
The  production  of  purified  CRM197  starts  with  the  fermentation  of  Corynebacterium  diphtheriae 
C7ß197M8.  CRM197  is  secreted  into  the  supernatant.  The  supernatant  is  collected  by  continuous 
centrifugation  and  filtered  through  a  (stacked  disk)  depth  filtration.  The  filtrate  is  concentrated  and 
diafiltered  against  sodium  phosphate  buffer,  followed  by  filtration  through  a  0.22  µm  filter.  Further 
purification includes column chromatography. The eluate is ultrafiltrated and diafiltered against potassium 
phosphate buffer. The retentate is collected, a stabilizer is added and the purified CRM bulk concentrate is 
filtered at 0.22 µm and stored at < -15°C.  
•  Control of materials 
New master and working seeds were produced to minimize the risks of contamination with Transmissible 
Spongiform  Encephalopathies  (TSE)  by  ensuring  that  all  possible  material  of  bovine  origin  had  been 
removed  from  the  seed  production  process  wherever  possible.    This  involved  changing  to  CY  medium. 
The specifications for MS and WS are in agreement with Ph Eur requirements. 
Most  materials  used  in  the  production  are  of  pharmacopoeia  (Ph.  Eur  or  USP)  quality.  For  others                          
internal specifications are set. 
•  Process validation 
All  process  requirements  were  met  for  three  consecutive  full  scale  runs  plus  two  additional  runs.  A 
tabulated summary of each of the steps of the process outcomes was given and demonstrates consistency. 
Consistency  is  demonstrated  for  the  unmodified  process  that  was  used  for  the  clinical  and  consistency 
batches. This data support the acceptance criteria. After that post-validation changes have been made to 
the process. 
•  Manufacture process development 
The  CRM197  manufacturing  process  used  for  MenACWY  conjugate  vaccine  production  is  based  upon 
Novartis  Vaccines’  previous  experience  with  this  protein.  The  development  and  optimization  of  the 
manufacturing process were conducted and implemented at Novartis Siena. Subsequently the process was 
transferred to the Rosia site where it was validated and the phase 3 clinical batches were produced.   
Page 7/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  production  process  for  purification  of  CRM  is  acceptably  controlled  and  has  been  validated  with 
batches  of  the  same  sizes  as  batches  intended  for  commercial  production.  The  quality  control  of  CRM 
complies with Ph. Eur., and is performed with validated methods.  
The  results  from  the  batch  analysis  for  purified  CRM  show  that  all  batches  are  within  the  pre-set 
specifications  and  show  a  high  degree  of  consistency.  Submitted  stability  data  for  CRM  support  the 
proposed shelf-life of 30 months. 
However, changes were made to the CRM197 manufacturing process after the completion of the process 
validation.  Material  from  this  proposed  modified  process  was  not  used  in  the  clinical  studies.  Upon 
request the company has submitted data to demonstrate comparability between the validated and modified 
process  which  has  demonstrated  that  the  modified  process  does  not  affect  the  impurity  profile.  The 
company  has  already  started  a  36  months  stability  study  for  CRM197  produced  with  the  commercial 
process at Rosia.   
Meningococcal Polysaccharides and conjugates 
•  Manufacture 
The production of the Meningococcal Polysaccharides and conjugates of the different serotypes is very 
similar and differs just in a few aspects.  
Batches and scale definition 
A batch of Men polysaccharide is defined as the product of a single fermentation and harvest. 
All Men polysaccharide fermentation and purification clinical lots were produced at the 
full-scale defined for commercial production lots. 
Fermentation of Polysaccharides  
Vials of working seed are incubated in flasks until appropriate OD590 is reached. 
The flasks of bacterial suspension are then inoculated in the fermentor.  The fermentation proceeds at 
a controlled conditions. At the end of fermentation, the culture is inactivated by addition of formaldehyde 
and incubated. 
The  supernatant  is  collected  by  continuous  (stacked  disk)  centrifugation  and  serially  depth-filtered  to 
remove  material  in  suspension.  This  supernatant  is  concentrated  and  diafiltered  against  WFI.  
Polysaccharide  is  precipitated  from  the  retentate  by  the  appropriate  reagent  solution.    The  precipitate 
(humid paste) is collected by centrifugation and stored at ≤ –15°C in polypropylene containers.  
Purification of Polysaccharides  
Thawed paste (humid paste) is added to alcohol and then the clarified extract is 0.22 µm filtered. 
The alcoholic suspension is filtered, precipitated and the precipitate is recovered by centrifugation.  
The polysaccharide vacuume dried after previous centrifugation. 
The purified polysaccharide is a process intermediate, stored in a polypropylene container at -15°C 
or below. 
Preparation of Men-CRM.  
Purified  polysaccharide  Men  is  subsequently  hydrolyzed,  sized,  activated  and  conjugated  to  the 
carrier protein CRM197 to give the drug substance. 
Sizing:  Sizing  of  Men  oligosaccharide  utilizes 
three  consecutive  manufacturing  steps: 
polysaccharide  hydrolysis  (to  produce  oligosaccharides  of  suitable  average  chain  length), 
ultrafiltration (to remove high molecular weight oligosaccharides), and oligosaccharide sizing. 
Activation:  Activation  of  Men  oligosaccharide  utilizes  four  consecutive  manufacturing  steps: 
reductive  amination  (to  introduce  an  amino  group  at  the  reducing  end  of  the  oligosaccharide), 
aminated  oligosaccharide  concentration/diafiltration  (to  remove  excess  reductive  amination 
Page 8/58 
 
 
 
 
 
reagents), rotary evaporation (to remove water), and finally oligosaccharide activation (to react the 
free amino group of the oligosaccharide with bis N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of adipic acid). 
Conjugation:  The  drug  substance  Men-CRM  is  created  by  the  conjugation  of  the  activated  Men 
oligosaccharide molecule to purified CRM197 protein. 
Filling, storage and transportation (shipping) 
The Men-CRM conjugate bulk is stored in sterile polyethylene terephthalate copolyester containers 
at ≤ -15°C. 
The  production  of  the  four  Meningococcal  humid  paste,  purified  polysaccharide  and  Men–CRM-
conjugates is well described in separate sections.  
Source, history, and generation of the cell substrate 
For  all  four  Meningococcal  seeds  a  flow  chart  detailing  the  history  of  the  master  and  working  seed 
production from the initial receipt of the organism within Novartis is provided.  In addition information 
regarding place of isolation of the strains, whether they are from invasive cases or healthy carriers, and 
typing (utilizing both immunological and molecular typing scheme) is provided.  
The seeds for Menveo were produced to ensure that all material of bovine origin was removed from 
the seed production process. In order to reduce TSE risk, a series of subculturing operations were 
performed on media sourced in compliance with EMEA 410/01 and 9 CFR 94.18.   
The retest of master and working seeds is carried out in accordance with an internal procedure. The 
colony count, which has been selected as the most critical parameter, shows no downward trend for 
any of the master seeds and working seeds used for production of Menveo.   
In general, the control testing of the Master and Working cell banks is considered acceptable. Novartis has 
committed  to  submit  batch  analysis  results  for  three  commercial  batches  of  purified  polysaccharide 
produced with the new Men A working seed.    
Summary of polysaccharide and Men-CRM production  
Compendial (Ph. Eur., USP or ACS) specifications are in place for most of the raw materials used in the 
routine production. However, the internal specifications for raw materials for which non-compendial in-
house specification have been set are too vague and not acceptable. The CHMP agreed to the applicant’s 
commitment  to  provide  this  as  a  follow-up  measure.  The  water  for  injection  and  purified  water  are  in 
compliance with Ph.Eur or USP.  
The only ruminant derived materials used are derived from bovine milk sourced from healthy animals in 
the same conditions as milk considered fit for human consumption and therefore complies with the TSE 
Note for Guidance (EMEA/410/01 Rev. 2). No viral issues have been identified. 
Overall  the  production  of  all  polysaccharides,  CRM  and  Men-CRM  conjugates  is  consistent.  Process 
outcomes  are  identified  as  critical  and  non-critical.  It  is  noted  that  the  company’s  definition  for  a  non-
critical  process  control  parameter  contains  internal  inconsistencies  concerning  whether  or  not  these 
parameters impact quality characteristics. The applicant has committed to revise the relevant SOP. 
The Manufacturing process for purified polysaccharides is for most steps acceptably controlled and have 
been validated with batches of the same size as batch sizes intended for commercial production.  
However,  alert  limits  set  for  bioburden  during  early  purification  steps  for  the  polysaccharides  were 
considered too high. The root cause of the high bioburden observed during validation is likely related to 
the design of the product recovery lineAfter implementing operational improvements significantly lower 
general  bioburden  levels  were  found  in  the  subsequent  manufacturing  campaign  An  acceptable  lower 
Page 9/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
loweraction limit for bioburden, applicable to all four serogroups have been set. Additional modifications 
to the manufacturing process in order to reduce the general bioburden level even further, also on request 
from the GMP inspection (see below) will be introduced. The company has committed to undertake the re-
assessment  of  the  action  limit  for  the  general  bioburden  when  data  from  25  lots  of  each  serogroup  are 
available.  Furthermore,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to  submit  interim  data  from  the  first  5  batches  of 
each serogroup and set preliminary action limits for bioburden based on these results (expected in 2012) 
In  order  to  verify  the  effect  of  the  final  improvements  introduced  in  2009,  the  company  has  also 
committed  to  provide  data  from  bioburden  testing  for  the  first  five  consecutive  lots  regardless  of 
serogroup.  Finally,  the  Company  has  committed  to  inform  the  authorities  of  any  out  of  specification 
results or negative trends observed with regard to bioburden results.  
It  was  discovered,  as  part  of  a  follow-up  to  a  corrective  and  preventive  action  initiated  by  an  out  of 
specification result, that the established formaldehyde inactivation was not able to completely inactivate 
100  %  of  the  N.  meningitidis.  The  Company  has  therefore  changed  the  acceptance  criteria  for  specific 
bioburden after revalidation of the inactivation step. The Company has adequately demonstrated that even 
though  the  formaldehyde  inactivation  is  not  capable  of  consistently  inactivating  100%  of  the  N. 
meningitidis,  the  successive  process  steps,  will  sufficiently  remove  or  inactivate  residual  viable  N. 
meningitidis. This has been verified by the re-validation of the process. 
A product and process-related inspection of the site Novartis, Rosia - Sovicille (SI) - Italy was requested 
at D120 of the procedure to examine the assessment issue raised on the bioburden in the Active Substance 
manufacturing process. It is concluded that the activities required to fully solve all the points raised during 
the GMP inspection required time, however the site can be accepted for manufacturing Menveo provided 
that: An interim report is provided not later than three months updating on the progress of the resolution of 
open deviations. A further inspection will be carried out with a timeline for reporting by September 30th, 
2010. 
Quality control of purified polysaccharides are performed with adequately validated  methods and are in 
general considered to be in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monographs for Meningococcal polysaccharide 
vaccine and Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine. However, the method used for determination of 
the molecular size distribution are slightly different from the Ph. Eur. method, but is based on the same 
principle. This deviation is considered acceptable as the purified polysaccharides are intermediates which 
are hydrolysed later in the process. The deviation of the test for sialic acid from the Ph. Eur. method is 
justified. 
In general, the results from the batch analysis of each of the four polysaccharides demonstrate consistency 
and were within the pre-set limits.  
The manufacturing of conjugates is considered satisfactorily controlled and has been adequately validated 
with batches of the same size which have been used in clinical phase 3 trials and which are intended for 
commercial production. The approach for validation of the life-time (including performance and sanitation 
efficiency) of diafiltration and ultrafiltration filters used throughout the manufacturing of conjugates, are 
satisfactory described.  
•  Specifications 
Appropriate specifications have been provided for the MenA-CRM, MenC-CRM, MenW-CRM  and 
MenY-CRM Conjugates. 
The  stability  protocol  for  purified  polysaccharides  comprises  testing  for  molecular  size  distribution,  O-
acetyl  content  and  dry  weight.  Real  time  stability  data  up  to  36  months  from  clinical  phase  3/process 
validation batches for MenA. W and Y PS support the proposed shelf-life of 36 months at ≤ -15°C for the 
Page 10/58 
 
 
 
 
 
purified polysaccharides. Real time stability data up to 24 months from clinical phase 3/process validation 
batches for MenC support the proposed shelf-life of 30 months at ≤ -15°C for MenC PS.  
The average degree of polymerisation (aDP) is controlled at the level of sized oligosaccharides, but only 
for  MenA  and  MenC  oligosaccharides  at  the  level  of  activated  oligosaccharides.  This  was  adequately 
justified.  Furthermore,  the  activated  oligosaccharides  are  stored  as  dry  powders  at  ≤  -15°C,  conditions 
likely not to affect the glycosidic linkage. 
The  characterisation  aimed  at  both  characterising  the  intermediates  and  drug  substances  and  to  verify 
physiochemical comparability between early clinical phase 3 batches manufactured at Siena and clinical 
phase  3/process  validation  batches  manufactured  at  the  Rosia  site.  In  general,  characterisation  of  the 
intermediates  (CRM,  polysaccharides,  sized  and  activated  oligosaccharides)  are  considered  satisfactory 
and  demonstrate  physiochemical  comparability  between  batches  manufactured  at  the  two  sites.  The 
characterisation of the drug substances on the other hand is not fully comparable. Siena batches contain 
additional polydispersion or higher levels of aggregates/ complexes than the Rosia batches, which is due 
to  aggregation  of  a  non-covalent  nature.  Slight  variations  in  the  conjugate  purification  conditions  could 
affect the variable formation of this additional population of molecules. The agreed set of specifications 
(see above) for the drug substance is, however, considered sufficient to ensure consistency. 
Most of the tests and specifications performed as part of the routine testing on the drug substances are in 
compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine. A specification for 
bioburden  and  not  sterility  has  been  set  for  the  drug  substance  bulk  prior  to  storage  even  if  this  is  a 
requirement  according  to  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  Meningococcal  group  C  conjugate  vaccine. 
However, the proposed limit for bioburden of the drug substance is considered acceptable in view of limits 
for  bioburden  already  accepted  for  other  (non-vaccine)  biologicals.  Microbiological  quality  of  the  Men 
CWY drug product is assured by additional measures.  
Furthermore, based on the batch analysis data of Men conjugate bulks, the proposed specification limits 
for glycosylation grade (saccharide/protein ratio) and total saccharide are considered sufficiently justified.  
Upon  request  the  Applicant  committed  to  reintroduce  percentage  of  asymmetry  and  dispersion  index  as 
routine releasing testing for all four drug substances and setting appropriate limits.  Finally, the company 
committed to establish a specification for appearance for the drug substance in accordance with the ICH 
Q6B. 
With the exception of the in vivo test for immunogenicity, which has been abandoned after completion of 
the process validation, the analytical methods are in general considered adequate.  
Additional information is provided concerning the container closure systems used. The equivalence of the 
cryotubes during the stability study and glass containers for routine storage of activated oligosaccharides 
is justified. 
•  Stability 
The  available  stability  up  to  36  months  data  for  drug  substances  support  the  proposed  shelf-life  of  36 
months at ≤ -15°C.  The protocol for the real-time stability is considered acceptable.  
The  available  stability  data  for  activated  oligosaccharides  for  up  to  24  months  at  ≤  -15°C  show  no 
negative trends for the parameters tested (active ester group content, free N-hydroxysuccinimide, O-acetyl 
content and dry weight). A supposedly upward trend for free HNS has been clarified by the company. The 
applicant has satisfactorily justified that the current stability protocol for activated oligosaccharides, which 
Page 11/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
does not include monitoring of a DP or molecular size distribution, is sufficient to monitor stability of this 
intermediate.  
Medicinal Product 
Menveo consists of one vial containing the MenA lyophilized conjugate component (MenA Lyo) and one 
syringe containing the MenCWY liquid conjugate component (MenCWY Liquid). One dose of Menveo 
contains 10 µg of MenA saccharide, and 5 µg of each of the MenC, MenW and MenY saccharides, while 
the protein content ranges from 32.7 and 64.1 µg CRM197 protein /dose. The excipients are sucrose and 
potassium dihydrogen phosphate from the MenA lyo component (12.5 mg and 5 mM, respectively) and 
sodium chloride, sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, and disodium phosphate dihydrate from the 
MenCWY liquid component (4.5 mg/ml, 2.5 mM, and 7.5 mM, respectively). The product is both 
preservative-free and non-adjuvanted. The MenCWY Liquid is a sterile, colorless, and clear solution for 
injection, supplied in single-dose 1.0 mL glass syringes (without needle) closed with halobutyl teflon 
coated rubber stoppers and a tip cap of butylic rubber formulation with latex. MenA Lyo is a sterile white 
to off-white cake, presented in a 2 mL glass vial with a halobutyl stopper. After reconstitution, the 
solution appears clear and colourless to slightly yellow.  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  product  development  has  been  adequately  described  and  the  rationale  for  the  final  formulation 
justified. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The raw materials of ruminant or human origin are listed. 
The Casamino Acids and the Q-Sepharose XL chromatography matrix both use bovine milk certified as 
being in compliance with the requirements of the EMEA’s current Note for Guidance EMEA/410/01 and 
the FDA’s 59 FR 44591 and 9 CFR 94.  Neither human hair nor poultry feathers (used in the production of 
L-Cysteine Hydrochloride Monohydrate) are thought to be risks for transmission of TSE’s.  Moreover, 
from mid-2002 onwards, L-Cysteine Hydrochloride Monohydrate has been produced using raw materials 
of plant origin. 
Viral clearance studies are considered not applicable. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturing  processes  for  the  drug  substances  were  transferred  in  Q3  2005  from  Novartis  Siena  to 
Novartis Rosia and the process validation was conducted in 2006. All clinical batches of MenCWY Liquid 
have been formulated at the Rosia site, in 2 different buildings. All clinical batches of MenA Lyo have 
been formulated and freeze-dried at Novartis, Marburg.   
The manufacture of MenCWY Liquid consists of the following steps: 
−  Formulation: Preparation of buffered saline solution in a mixing tank, dispensing of drug substances  
in  the  buffered  saline  solution  and  sterile  filtration  of  the  mixed  solution  through  a  0.22  μm  filter 
cartridge into the formulation vessel prior to storage for NMT 3 months at 2- 8°C . 
−  Filling of the MenCWY Liquid component in 1 mL syringes. 
Page 12/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacture of MenA Lyo consists of the following steps: 
−  Formulation and Sterile Filtration: Thawed MenA–CRM conjugate bulk is formulated in potassium 
phosphate  buffer  with  sucrose,  sterile  filtered  (0.22  μm)  and  filled  the  same  day  or  stored  at  a 
temperature of 2-8°C for no longer than 24 hours. If formulation and filling are not performed in 24 
hrs, then an additional sterile filtration step will be performed. 
−  Filling and lyophilisation: Sterile, depyrogenated vials are filled and lyophilised. The vials are stored 
at 2- 8°C until shipment from Marburg to Rosia at 2- 8°C. 
The manufacturing processes are well described. It is confirmed that blending of batches or sub-batches of 
drug substance in the formulations is performed. The use of drug substance subjected to a second round of 
freezing  and  thawing  was  validated.  However,  the  Company  will  only  use  MenW  and  MenY  CRM 
conjugates subjected to a second freeze/thaw cycle until results from a MenC CRM freeze/thaw study are 
available.  
The Drug Product manufacturing process for both the MenA lyo and MenCWY liquid product concerns a 
standard formulation/filling (lyophilisation) process. More information was requested on the validation of 
the used 0.2 μm filters as well as the proposed bioburden limits before filtration. The filtration procedure 
and type of filter is demonstrated to be satisfactory by means of a microbial challenge test using a suitable 
test micro-organism in accordance with Ph.Eur. 5.1.1. It is confirmed that pre and post filter integrity is 
tested. 
With  the  company’s  commitment  to  initiate  filling  of  the  final  container  not  later  than  24  hours  after 
completion of sterile filtration of the MenCWY bulk the company solves the main issue raised during the 
procedure.  
All excipients used in the Menveo are compendial (Ph. Eur./USP). Minor issues were solved on request. 
•  Product Specifications 
The  panel  of  product  specifications  for  release  of  the  final  lot  vaccine  comprises  for  MenCWY  Liquid, 
tests for: Identity, total and free saccharide of MenC-CRM, MenW-CRM and MenY-CRM, appearance, 
volume,  pH,  osmolarity,  endotoxin  and  sterility;  and  for  MenA  Lyo  tests  for:  Identity,  total  and  free 
saccharide,  appearance,  appearance  after  reconstitution,  residual  moisture,  protein  content  (BCA),  pH 
(after reconstitution), sucrose, endotoxin and sterility. The Applicant has provided batch analysis data of 
MenCWY Liquid and of MenA Lyo showing that the results on free saccharide are well below the current 
specification limit. Upon request the free saccharide % limits for release and stability have been aligned 
and tightened and are identical for the three glycoconjugates in MenWCY liquid. The proposed limit for 
free  saccharide  in  MenA  lyo  is  agreed.  Limits  for  MenCWY  endotoxin  content  were  justified  upon 
request. Compared to the Drug Substance, the saccharide content in the Drug Product(s) is significantly 
lower as it is diluted to the final dosage form. It was explained that based on the saccharide content the 
specification could not be set tighter. The explanation was satisfactory. 
Satisfactory  validation  of  the  test  methods  have  been  provided.  Regarding  the  test  for  total  and  free 
polysaccharides,  the  procedure  for  standard  preparations  and  the  limits  of  quantification  were  further 
clarified. 
Protein content is only tested on MenA Lyo to demonstrate process consistency. The omission of a test for 
protein content for MenCWY Liquid is justified. 
After  successful  process  validation,  Novartis  decided  to  remove  the  tests  for  Pyrogen,  Mouse 
Immunogenicity  tests,  MenA-,  MenC-,  MenW-  and  MenY-CRM  ELISA  and  general  safety/abnormal 
toxicity tests from the routine analytical testing of MenCWY Liquid and MenA Lyo. In addition, the High 
Page 13/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performance Gel Permeation Chromatograohy (HPGPC) based tests for Hydrodynamic Size, Percentage 
of Asymmetry, and Dispersion Index for MenA Lyo were abandoned.  
The  Applicant  has  committed  to  reintroduce  the  HPGPC  tests  in  the  release  testing  as  well  as  in  the 
stability testing for MenA lyo.  
The  container  closure  system  has  been  adequately  described  for  the  MenA  Lyo  presentation.  A 
satisfactory description of the syringe for MenCWY Liquid was provided upon request. 
A container closure integrity test has been performed for syringes in order to demonstrate the suitability of 
container  closure  system.  Apparently  this  validation  was  performed  using  an  equivalent  syringe  to  the 
syringe intended for use in commercial production. Information concerning the equivalence between the 
two syringes has not been provided, however the Company has initiated a new Container Closure Integrity 
Test (CCIT) on the syringe intended for use in commercial production.  
•  Stability of the Product 
A shelf-life for MenCWY Liquid and MenA Lyo of 24 months when stored at 2 - 8°C has been accepted. 
The  applicant  commits  to  complete  the  stability  study  through  to  48  months  shelf-life  for  the  process 
validation lots. Stability data for the process Men A and MenCWY validation lots data up to 18/24 months 
have  been  provided.  Accelerated  stability  testing  and  supportive  stability  data  from  drug  substances 
produced  at  Siena  were  already  available.  For  MenCWY  Liquid  all  the  stability  data  are  within  the 
specification limits. All the stability data provided for MenA Lyo are within the specification limits and 
show  no  or  little  change  in  the  total  and  free  saccharide,  pH,  and  residual  moisture.  On  request  the 
applicant  has  committed  to  re-introduce  the  percentage  of  asymmetry  and  dispersion  index  tests  in  all 
future stability studies for MenA Lyo Drug Product. 
Due to the low performance of the immunogenicity assay, the highly variable immunogenicity data is not 
considered  adequate  for  monitoring  the  stability  of  the  drug  product  and  the  Applicant  intends  to  cease 
performing the immunogenicity/ELISA testing for routine stability testing. This is in agreement with the 
Scientific advice given by EMEA. 
The submitted stability data for the reconstituted vaccines support a shelf-life of 24 hours at both 2-8°C 
and 36-38°C. 
In  addition,  the  Applicant  has  also  committed  to  submit  data  which  support  a  24  hrs  shelf-life  of  the 
reconstituted  vaccine  with  MenCWY  Liquid  and  MenA  Lyo  components  at  or  beyond  their  maximum 
shelf-life and committed to inform if any deviations are observed. 
GMP compliance: 
The GMP inspection to the Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics S.r.l. site located in Localita Bellaria-Rosia 
(Sovicille, SI), Italy has been conducted from 20-25 September 2009 and 31 deviations were identified. 
Company’s responses were received on 16 November, while the final GMP inspection report was issued 
on 3 December 2009. It is concluded that the activities required to fully solve all the points raised during 
the GMP inspection required time, however the site can be accepted manufacturing Menveo provided that: 
an interim report is provided not later than three months updating on the progress of the resolution of open 
deviations. A further inspection will be carried out with a timeline for reporting by September 30th, 2010. 
Regarding the use of batches produced prior to the inspection: 
Page 14/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All batches  manufactured were produced in a GMP licensed facility. The inspection revealed  major but 
not critical concerns. Based on this it is considered that the batches produced (in 2007-2008/9), prior to the 
full implementation of changes to deal with the bioburden problems can be used provided that they met 
the  specifications  (in  place  at  the  time).  The  bioburden  levels  at  intermediate  steps  for  the  2007-2008/9 
batches and incomplete inactivation of N. meningtidis group W at the inactivation step, are no reason for 
concern, because subsequent steps have a sufficient inactivation and removal capacity.  
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical program of studies with MenACWY consists of three non-GLP immunogenicity studies 
in  mice  and  three  completed  GLP  toxicology  studies  in  rabbits.  The  results  of  two  GLP  repeat-dose 
toxicity  studies  in  rabbits  (Study  489062  and  AA78333)  testing  the  current  formulation  of  MenACWY 
(non adjuvanted) were also submitted during the procedure.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Immunogenicity  in  mice  and  rabbits  has  been  investigated  by  using  an  ELISA  to  measure  antibodies 
against  each  serogroup  and  serum  bactericidal  assay  (SBA)  measuring  functional  antibodies  for  each 
serogroup. 
Immunogenicity studies in mice 
Mice were treated twice by subcutaneous (SC) injection, 4 weeks apart, with MenA-CRM, MenC-CRM, 
MenW-CRM  and  MenY-CRM.  Sera  were  collected  14  days  after  the  second  dose  and  analysed  for 
antibody  levels  (ELISA)  and  functionality  (SBA).  In  these  studies,  the  antigens  were  formulated 
individually  or  in  combination,  with  different  antigen  ratios,  with  or  without  either  Al(OH)3  or  AlPO4 
adjuvant, and with increasing adjuvant dosages. 
Immunogenicity  study  in  mice  with  adjuvanted,  Al(OH)3  or  AlPO4,  tetravalent  combinations  of  MenA, 
MenC, MenW and MenY conjugates - Study 243/07 
The  aim  of  this  study  was  to  compare  the  immunological  response  of  mice  treated  with  the  four 
conjugated meningococcal oligosaccharides MenA, MenC, MenW and MenY, formulated with Al(OH)3 
or AlPO4 adjuvants, at different antigen molar ratios.  
Combinations  of  the  four  CRM-conjugates,  adjuvanted  with  AlPO4,  were  administered  at  the  following 
antigen ratios of A:C:W:Y (weight:weight in μg of oligosaccharides): (4 or 2):2:2:2; (4 or 2):2:1:1; (4 or 
2):2:0.5:1; (4 or 2):2:2:1; (4 or 2):2:1:0.5; or (4 or 2):2:1:2.  
The combination adjuvanted with Al(OH)3 was administered at the ratio of (4 or 2):2:2:2. 
The  ELISA  GMT  values  showed  differences  between  the  antigens  in  their  interaction  with  the 
adjuvants/other antigens. E.g. with MenW, the titres tend to be lower with AlPO4, whereas for MenY the 
titres  tend  to  be  lower  with  Al(OH)3.  Whether  there  is  or  there  is  no  interference  between  antigens  can 
hardly be concluded because of all the other differences between the treatments. 
As the intended formulation does not contain any adjuvant, these data are of limited value, and cannot be 
used to predict the optimal ratio between the antigens. 
Page 15/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity  study  in  mice  with  adjuvanted,  Al(OH)3  or  AlPO4,  monovalent  and  tetravalent 
combinations of MenACWY conjugates - Study 244/07 
Immune responses were evaluated in mice using antigens combined at ratios of 1:1:1:1 (at 2 μg of each 
oligosaccharide) or 1:1:0.25:0.5 (at 2 μg of A and C, 0.5 μg of W, and 1 μg of Y oligosaccharides) versus 
single  antigens.  The  rationale  for  the  combinations  with  lower  MenW-CRM  and  MenY-CRM 
oligosaccharide  concentrations  was  to  address  potential  antigen  interference  with  Al(OH)3-  or  AlPO4-
containing formulations, especially with respect to the MenA component. 
ELISA  and  SBA  titres  showed  immune  responses  and  functional  activity  in  mice  with  all  formulations 
tested.  Overall,  no  notable  differences  in  antibody  responses  were  observed  when  antigens  were 
combined.  Immunogenicity  of  MenC-CRM,  MenW-CRM  and  MenY-CRM  did  not  change  when  the 
conjugates were administered alone or in combination. However, for the MenA conjugate two of the six 
tetravalent formulations did not induce bactericidal antibodies. 
In  all  treatment  groups  alum  adjuvants  were  included.  The  absence  of  interference  is  an  optimistic 
conclusion as in fact the confidence intervals are wide. As the intended formulation does not contain any 
adjuvant, these data are of limited value, not having any predictive value for the human situation. 
Immunogenicity  study  in  mice  of  tetravalent  conjugated  MenACWY  vaccine  with  different  adjuvant 
dosages and without adjuvant - Study 245/07 
This study investigated the immune responses of mice given the tetravalent combination of MenACWY 
without  adjuvant  or  formulated  with  increasing  doses  of  AlPO4  adjuvant.  The  dose  volume  of  0.5  mL 
contained 2 μg of each oligosaccharide. When used, the AlPO4 adjuvant dosages tested were 0.060, 0.030 
or 0.015 mg (of Al3+ per dose).  
ELISA and SBA titres showed immune responses to all antigens with all formulations tested. No major 
difference were observed with the various aluminium phosphate dosages or in the absence of adjuvant, but 
the best immune response to MenA-CRM antigen was obtained with the formulation containing 0.06 mg 
Al3+,  and  somewhat  lower  responses  were  observed  with  the  lower  adjuvant  concentrations  or  without 
adjuvant. 
The positive influence of AlPO4 on the titre measured by ELISA as well as by SBA is in contrast to the 
finding  of  the  study  mentioned  above,  where  this  adjuvant  was  negatively  associated  with  the  immune 
response. It is the only mouse study in which a group without adjuvant has been tested, but no conclusion 
is possible from this single experiment. This study does not contribute to the proof-of-concept. 
Immunogenicity studies in rabbits 
As  part  of  toxicity  studies  in  rabbits,  serum  samples  were  collected  to  confirm  the  immunological 
response of MenACWY in the experiment. Antibody assays (ELISA and SBA) were not conducted under 
GLP.  
Single/repeated dose toxicity - Study 02-2752 
The general toxicology study with alum-adjuvanted MenACWY formulations was designed with a single-
dose  and  a  repeat-dose  aspect  (5  doses  each  administered  2  weeks  apart).  The  rabbits  received 
intramuscularly 40μg saccharide/dose containing all four antigens at a concentration of 10 µg each. 
Sera  from  controls  were  negative  for  antibodies  throughout  the  study.  After  a  single  dose,  antibody 
responses  were  detectable  (ELISA  and  SBA)  14  days  after  injection  in  all  animals  given  the 
MenACWY+Al(OH)3,  while  fewer  than  half  of  the  animals  given  the  AlPO4  formulation  had 
seroconverted. In the repeat-dose aspect of the study, antibody titres (ELISA)  and function (SBA)  were 
highest after the third dose and declined thereafter, but were still detectable 14 days after the last injection. 
A non-adjuvanted formulation was not tested in this study. 
Page 16/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose-range finding Developmental and reproductive toxicity (DART) - Study UBA00020 
Two  groups  of  animals  receiving  MenACWY  and  MenACWY+AlPO4  respectively  (0.5  ml  containing 
10µ of Men A, 5µ each of Men C, W and Y) were used only for blood sampling for antibody analysis. 
Five  intramuscular  injections  were  administered  to  5  female  rabbits/group  (for  the  dosing  scheme,  see 
Toxicology  section).  Blood  samples  were  collected  from  these  animals  during  the  pre-mating  phase  on 
days 3, 17 and 31 (approximately 48 hours post-injection) and during gestation on days 7 (prior to dosing) 
and 29 (at Caesarean section). Fetal blood was also collected and pooled on gestation day 29. 
The  ELISA  results  demonstrated  that  the  titers  were  approximately  2  times  higher  with  MenACWY 
containing AlPO4 adjuvant than without adjuvant and that fetal sera contained high specific titers against 
all  serogroups.  The  bactericidal  antibody  results  also  demonstrated  that  responses  to  the  adjuvanted 
MenACWY were higher than to non-adjuvanted vaccine. Bactericidal titers were about the same level in 
maternal sera as in the fetal sera. 
Pivotal DART study - Study UBA00038 
One hundred and eight New Zealand White female rabbits were randomly assigned to four dosage groups. 
Group  II  and  IV  rabbits  were  administered  intramuscular  injections  of  MenACWY  (without  adjuvant, 
similar  to  final  product)  and  Group  I  and  III  rabbits  were  administered  intramuscular  injections  of  the 
control article (0.9% Sodium  Chloride Injection). Five intramuscular injections were administered to 27 
female  rabbits/group  (for  the  dosing  scheme,  see  Toxicology  section).  Antibody  analysis  and  serum 
bactericidal activity were performed on maternal and fetal/pup blood samples to confirm exposure. 
The ELISA titers peaked around day 7 to 20 of gestation and declined after that.  The titers for MenW and 
MenY at day 29 of lactation were similar to pre-study titers. On gestation day 29 the fetal sera titers were 
higher than the corresponding maternal titers. Bactericidal titers at gestation day 29 were higher against 
MenA  and  MenC  than  against  MenW  and  MenY.  The  bactericidal  titers  in  fetal  sera  were  similar  or 
higher than the corresponding maternal titer. 
In  the  two  reproductive/developmental  (DART)  toxicity  studies  described  above,  the  current  (non-
adjuvanted)  formulation  of  MenACWY  was  tested.  The  vaccine  was  immunogenic  in  maternal  rabbits 
(does) and antibodies were detectable (ELISA) and functional (SBA) in fetuses on day 29 of gestation. F1 
offspring had ELISA titres that were comparable to their does on day 29 of lactation.  
The  immunogenicity  data  from  the  dose-range  finding  DART  study  as  well  as  from  the  pivotal  DART 
study  in  rabbits  clearly  indicate  an  immune  response  to  the  individual  antigens.  It  cannot  be  concluded 
whether the vaccine, although inducing serum-bactericidal activity, will induce protection in these rabbits.  
The  non-adjuvanted  vaccine  clearly  results  in  a  higher  MenA  response  than  the  alum-adjuvanted 
responses, indicating that indeed the mouse data are of limited value in this respect. 
The data from pups (after caesarian section and Lactation day 29) indicate the placental transfer of IgG 
during the latter part of pregnancy and transfer via milk. It shows that it might be possible to vaccinate 
pregnant mothers to protect their children, although the clinical relevance of the titre reported on Lactation 
Day 29 is not known. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No studies investigating secondary pharmacology were performed with MenACWY based on the nature 
of the product and the existing nonclinical safety/tolerability profile. The drug substances in MenACWY 
consist of purified oligosaccharides conjugated to CRM197, and the non-active constituents of the vaccine 
are well-established ingredients of pharmaceutical preparations.  
In some repeated dose toxicity studies heart rate has been recorded. However, these recordings were made 
at the 5th day after the 2nd injection and at the 6th day after the 3rd injection. No effects have been observed. 
The choice of these time points to measure heart rate is without any rationale and was not explained by the 
Page 17/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant. In the last study performed in rabbits and requested by the EMEA, heart rate has been measured 
2 hours after the first and after the second injection. No effects have been recorded. Monitoring each day 
during at least a few days after administration would have been a better option. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No studies investigating safety pharmacology were performed with MenACWY based on the nature of the 
product and the existing nonclinical safety/tolerability profile. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  studies  investigating  pharmacodynamic  drug-drug  interactions  were  performed  with  MenACWY 
based on the nature of the product and the existing nonclinical safety/tolerability profile. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic testing is not required for vaccines. 
Toxicology 
The  MenACWY  toxicology  program  consists  of  a  completed  GLP  general  toxicology  study  in  rabbits 
with single- and repeat-dose aspects (study 02-2752), two GLP general toxicology studies in rabbits with 
two doses (studies AA78333 and 489062) and pilot and definitive rabbit reproductive and developmental 
toxicity studies (DART studies). 
All studies were performed in rabbits using 1-2× the clinical dose and the clinical route of administration. 
These  studies  addressed  the  potential  for  local  and  systemic  toxicity  in  males  and  nulliparous  females 
(single/repeat-dose toxicity), and potential for effects on pregnant females, their fetuses, and F1 offspring 
(reproductive and developmental toxicity). 
The  number  of  vaccine  doses  administered  to  rabbits  in  these  studies  exceeded  the  intended  number 
proposed  for  immunization  of  adolescents  or  adults  by  up  to  four  doses.  On  a  body  weight  basis,  each 
dose to a rabbit was equivalent to approximately 10 times the dose administered to an adolescent (using 40 
kg for human subject and 4 kg for rabbit). 
Comparable manufacturing processes have been used throughout the development of the vaccine so any 
impurities  or  residuals  would  have  been  tested  in  the  repeat-dose  and  reproductive  and  developmental 
toxicity  studies  in  rabbits.  The  drug  substances  (MenA-CRM,  MenC-CRM,  MenW-CRM,  and  MenY-
CRM),  and  any  manufacturing  impurities,  were  tested  regardless  of  the  presence  of  aluminium-based 
adjuvants. 
•  Single dose toxicity (Study 02-2752) 
In the single-dose aspect of study 02-2752, rabbits (4/sex/group) received a single intramuscular injection 
of 40μg total oligosaccharides. Antigens were formulated with either aluminium phosphate or aluminium 
hydroxide  adjuvant.  One  control  group  received  aluminium  phosphate  and  a  second  control  group 
received aluminium hydroxide adjuvant. Two animals/sex/group were necropsied 2 or 14 days post-dose. 
The study parameters evaluated were as follows: viability checks twice a day, clinical signs daily, physical 
examinations twice a day, dermal scoring of injection sites performed 1 and 2 days after each treatment, 
body weights weekly and food consumption recorded daily. Body temperatures were measured before and 
2  days  after  injection  or  weekly  during  non-dosing  periods.  Heart  rates  were  measured  pre-test  and  on 
days  21  and  50,  clinical  pathology  analyses  (hematology,  serum  chemistry,  and  coagulation,  including 
fibrinogen) were performed pre-test, 2 days after each treatment and at recovery necropsy. 
Page 18/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific effects have been observed in the single dose part of the study. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
Study 02-2752 
In  the  repeat-dose  aspect  of  study  02-2752,  rabbits  received  five  intramuscular  injections  of 40 μg  total 
oligosaccharides.  The  study  parameters  evaluated  were  the  same  as  described  above  for  the  single-dose 
aspect with the addition of ophthalmoscopic examinations performed pre-test and before each necropsy. 
Rabbits were necropsied 2 or 14 days post-last dose (days 58 or 70, respectively). There was no systemic 
toxicity  associated  with  adjuvanted  MenACWY  given  two  weeks  apart.  Reversible  decrease  in  white 
blood cell counts and transient increases in fibrinogen occurred in treated animals; fluctuating cell counts 
are  consistent  with  the  administration  of  immunologically  active  materials  in  animals  and  men  and 
fibrinogen  elevation  may  be  indirectly  mediated  by  circulating  cytokines  and  are  among  the  transient 
abnormalities  commonly  associated  with  activation  of  the  immune  system.  Partially-to-fully  reversible, 
generally minimal to slight, injection site reactions were present in all study groups, with a slightly higher 
incidence and/or severity in animals receiving the MenACWY formulations. 
Combining the single and repeat dose toxicity studies in a single study design is a rational approach saving 
animals. The choice of time points to measure body temperature and heart rate was insufficiently justified 
and was not focused to detect effects of the vaccine.  
Results from the two other 2-dose toxicology studies in rabbits with non-adjuvanted MenACWY provided 
additional nonclinical support for the product and confirmed the toxicological profile of the vaccine. 
Study AA78333 
New  Zealand  White  rabbits  (8/sex)  were  assigned  to  2  groups.  Necropsies  (4/sex/group)  were  on  study 
days 16 (main) and 28 (recovery). Two intramuscular injections of 25 µg of non-adjuvanted MenACWY 
administered  2  weeks  apart  were  locally  and  systemically  well  tolerated  in  rabbits.  Body  temperatures 
were measured before and 2 hours after each injection and no relevant effects were observed. Occasional 
and slight and transient skin redness or swelling seen in both group animals correlated with minimal/slight 
dermal or intramuscular inflammation and hemorrhage at microscopic examination. These changes were 
of  similar  nature  and  severity  in  treated  and  control  groups  and  where  therefore  considered  to  be  a 
consequence of the intramuscular injection procedure. There were no findings in this study that changed 
the non clinical safety profile of the vaccine that had been established with adjuvanted formulations. 
The  dosing  regimen  used  in  this  study  (2  doses  given  2  weeks  apart)  exceeded  the  planned  clinical 
regimen for adolescents (> 11 years of age) and adults by 1 dose. Each dose was equal to the proposed 
clinical  dose  of  25  µg  total  oligosaccharides  and  CRM197.  On  a  microgram  per  kilogram  basis,  rabbits 
(approximately 4 kg) received ~10 times the dose to an adolescent, assuming a 40 kg human body weight. 
Study 489062 
In study 489062 repeat-dose toxicity and local tolerability of MenACWY were evaluated. New Zealand 
White  rabbits  were  assigned  to  2  groups  and  received  intramuscular  injections  of  MenACWY  or  saline 
solution  (control  article).  Dose  and  route  of  administration  were  the  same  as  above  (study  AA78333). 
Several  animals  of  both  groups  developed  symptoms  consistent  with  ‘enteritis  complex’  (including 
mucoid  enteropathy)  and died  or  were  euthanized  in  extremis.  Toxicological  evaluations  were  based  on 
surviving animals only, resulting on a low number of animals in the control groups. 
Page 19/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  following  parameters  were  evaluated  in  surviving  animals:  viability  checks  (twice  a  day),  clinical 
signs  (daily),  skin  observations  of  injection  sites  (1  and  2  days  after  each  treatment  and  daily  up  to 
resolution  of  any  finding),  body  weights  (weekly)  and  food  consumption  (twice  a  week).  Body 
temperatures  were  measured  before  dosing  and  2  and  24  hours  after  each  injection.  Ophthalmoscopic 
examination  was  performed  pre-test  and  before  each  necropsy,  heart  rate  and  respiratory  rate  were 
measured  pre-test,  prior  of  dosing  and  2  hours  after  each  dose  on  Days  1  and  15,  clinical  pathology 
analyses (hematology, serum chemistry, and coagulation, including fibrinogen) were done pre-test, 2 days 
after each treatment (Days 3 and 17) and at recovery necropsy. Immunogenicity was assessed during the 
study  by  ELISA  and  SBA.  Organ  weights  (adrenals,  brain,  heart,  kidneys,  liver,  lungs,  ovaries,  spleen, 
testes  and  thymus)  and  macroscopic  examinations  were  performed.  The  complete  WHO  tissue  list  was 
collected  and  evaluated  histopathologically  in  this  study.  This  study  was  initially  required  as  additional 
study by the EMEA. 
There was no systemic or local toxicity associated with two 0.5 mL intramuscular injections of 25 µg of 
non-adjuvanted MenACWY given two weeks apart. An immune response was apparent after the 2nd dose 
while low or no antibodies were detected after the 1st dose. Due to the ‘enteritis complex’ occurring during 
the study, Novartis chose to initiate a second study (Study AA78333, described above). 
•  Genotoxicity 
No  studies  investigating  genotoxicity  were  warranted  based  on  the  nature  of  the  product  and/or  the 
existing non clinical and clinical safety/tolerability profiles, which is acceptable.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  studies  investigating  carcinogenicity  were  warranted  based  on  the  nature  of  the  product  and/or  the 
existing non clinical and clinical safety/tolerability profiles, which is acceptable.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity was evaluated in New Zealand White rabbits. This species has 
demonstrated  sensitivity  to  developmental  toxicants,  historical  data  are  available,  and  antibodies  are 
elicited by treatment with MenACWY in this animal model. A GLP dose-ranging study (non-pivotal) and 
a  pivotal  GLP  study  were  conducted.  These  studies  were  designed  to  evaluate  ICH  Guideline  S5  (R2) 
stages A through E (with the exception of effects on male fertility and the oestrus cycle) and to comply 
with FDA guidance (Considerations for Developmental Toxicity Studies for Preventative and Therapeutic 
Vaccines for Infectious Disease Indications). 
The studies were designed to have a maximum  stimulation of the antibody concentration (mentioned as 
exposure) in order to ensure maximum exposure of the fetus to the antibodies. However, this is unlikely to 
occur in animal studies, as there is no placental transfer of IgM antibodies during the whole pregnancy, 
and placental transfer of IgG only in the second half of the pregnancy.  
Dose-range finding Developmental and reproductive toxicity (DART) - Study UBA00020 
In  study  UBA00020  the  potential  effects  of  MenACWY  (either  adjuvanted  with  AlPO4  or  without 
adjuvant)  on  maternal  and  fetal  parameters  were  evaluated.  Five  intramuscular  injections  were 
administered to 5 female rabbits/group every other week: 3 times before mating at 1× the clinical dose of 
25 μg and two times during gestation at 1× or 2× the clinical dose (25 μg or 50 μg respectively). 
Pre-mating  dosing  was  on  days  1,  15,  and  29  to  elicit  high  titres  at  the  time  of  mating  and  early  in 
gestation.  The  treatment  on  gestation  days  7  and  20,  at  either  25  or  50  μg,  was  intended  to  maintain 
antibody  levels  and  to  test  the  potential  for  maternal  or  fetal  toxicity  or  teratogenicity.  Dosing  during 
Page 20/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gestation  ensured  fetal  exposure  to  the  vaccine  components  and  allowed  the  determination  of  fetal 
exposure to maternal antibodies via placental transfer, which was expected based on data in pregnant mice 
(Richter 2004). On day 29 of gestation, Caesarean sections were performed.  
There were no deaths or maternal treatment-related findings in this study with the exception of a reduction 
of weight gain (61.9% of the control group) in rabbits given the 50 μg adjuvanted dose during gestation. 
No Caesarean section or litter parameters were affected in any group by treatment. 
Pivotal DART study - Study UBA00038 
The objective of this pivotal study was to assess the potential effects of MenACWY on reproductive and 
developmental toxicity in female rabbits and their fetuses or F1 offspring. 
The  potential  toxicity  of  MenACWY  was  assessed  in  females  before  cohabitation,  through  mating  with 
untreated males, and during gestation and lactation. This study was designed to evaluate ICH Harmonised 
Tripartite Guideline stages A through E of the reproductive process (with the exception of determination 
of  effects  on  male  fertility  and  the  oestrus  cycle)  and  would  detect  any  effects  on  tubal  transport, 
implantation, gestation, parturition, lactation, and maternal behaviour in female rabbits, and development 
of  the  offspring  of  the  treated  females.  The  F1  generation  was  observed  for  4  weeks  to  detect  the 
manifestation of any delayed effect. 
Intramuscular doses (0.5 mL) were administered to alternate hind limbs. Three doses were administered 
prior  to  gestation  to  ensure  induction  of  high  antibody  levels.  Two  doses  were  administered  during 
gestation to expose fetuses to the vaccine and to maintain antibody titres. 
MenACWY  was  well  tolerated  and  there  were  no  treatment-related  maternal  effects,  no  embryofetal 
toxicity was observed, and there were no developmental effects in F1 offspring during 4 weeks of post-
natal  observation.  Based  on  the  study  results,  MenACWY  was  not  a  reproductive  or  developmental 
toxicant in rabbits. 
•  Local tolerance  
The  pivotal  single  and  repeat-dose  intramuscular  study  in  rabbits  (Study  02-2752)  included  a  full 
evaluation  of  local  tolerability.  Microscopic  observations  following  repeated  dosing  included  minor 
inflammatory  and  degenerative  changes  at  the  injection  sites,  with  slightly  greater  severity  and/or 
incidence in vaccine-treated animals compared to control groups. In most cases the findings were graded 
as minimal or slight in severity. Occasional focal haemorrhage in the dermis, subcutaneous tissues, or in 
the underlying muscle layers was noted in all groups. These changes correlated with discoloration seen at 
macroscopic  examinations.  The  incidence  and  severity  of  findings  was  decreased  following  the  14-day 
recovery period. 
Data from the two additional repeat-dose toxicity studies (489062 and AA78333) has also been submitted 
and  no  local  or  systemic  toxicity  related  to  the  vaccine  was  observed.  The  studies  conducted  by  the 
company confirm the safety and tolerability of the vaccine. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with EMEA “Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of medicinal products for 
human use" (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) which specifies  that vaccines are exempt due to the nature of 
their constituents, no additional information has been performed. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
There  is  no  well-accepted  animal  challenge  model  in  which  to  study  protection  from  disease  caused  by 
N.meningitidis strains A, C, W and Y post-vaccination. Therefore, non clinical pharmacology studies have 
focused  on  demonstrating  the  immunogenicity  of  the  vaccine  and  on  showing  that  the  elicited  serum 
antibodies can kill bacteria of the homologous strains. 
Page 21/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Serum Bactericidal Activity (SBA) assay is internationally recognised as the most important method 
for  measuring  functional  activity  of  antibodies  elicited  after  meningococcal  polysaccharide-based 
vaccines. SBA was established as correlate of protection for polysaccharide vaccines in 1969.  
The vaccine or its components have not been tested in any animal model of disease. Although limitations 
exist  it  would  have  been  important  to  gain  experience.  However,  if  the  proof-of-concept  is  proven  in 
clinical studies than no further animal studies are needed. 
General safety/abnormal toxicity testing of each clinical lot has been performed in mice and Guinea pigs 
(USP  and  Ph.Eur.).  These  studies,  together  with  the  biochemical/biophysical  release  tests,  ensure  the 
acceptability  of  individual  clinical  or  commercial  lots.  There  were  no  manufacturing  impurities  or 
residuals at levels that constitute any cause for concern.  
The  general  safety/abnormal  toxicity  testing  in  mice  and  guinea  pigs  are  of  limited  value  from  a  non 
clinical point of view and can be discarded from future procedures. 
The results of the GLP general toxicology study in rabbits with single and five repeated doses support the 
safety and immunogenicity of MenACWY.  
The proposed indication for this dossier is for the administration of 1 dose of MenACWY to individuals 
from  11  years  of  age.  The  non  clinical  immunogenicity  and  toxicology  data,  in  combination  with  the 
clinical  data,  support  the  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  MenACWY.  Theoretical  safety  concerns  with 
respect  to  the  use  of  MenACWY  in  humans,  such  as  potential  hypersensitivity  reactions  to  vaccine 
ingredients  and  interactions  with  ongoing  therapy  that  could  diminish  antibody  responses  to  active 
immunization, have been addressed in the label. 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical development program of the MenACWY conjugate vaccine included early studies (V59P1 & 
V59P3 (preliminary), and V59P2, V59P4, and V59P7) designed to investigate the effect of different doses 
of  each  serogroup  antigen  (A,C,W,Y)  on  the  immune  response  and  the  need  for  an  adjuvant  in  the 
formulation. 
The  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  the  final  non-adjuvanted  10-5-5-5  MenACWY  formulation  was 
evaluated  in  individuals  aged  11  years  and  older  in  a  series  of  phase  2  and  3  studies:  V59P6,  V59P11, 
V59P13,  V59P17,  and  V59P18.  The  study  design  and  main  objectives  of  the  studies  are  described  in 
Table 1 below. 
In  addition  to  the  submitted  studies  supporting  the  chosen  formulation  (i.e.  dose  &  adjuvant)  and  the 
immunogenicity and safety in the proposed indication, the applicant has submitted some studies conducted 
in toddlers and children under the age of 11 years old which fall outside the proposed indication. Lastly, 
four  more  studies  have  been  planned  in  children  under  the  age  of  10  (V59P5E1,  V59P20,  V59P21  & 
V59P22).  
Within  the  clinical  development  programme,  no  clinical  efficacy  studies  were  undertaken,  only 
immunogenicity  was  assessed.  Control  vaccines  used  in  the  above  mentioned  studies  included  vaccines 
containing polysaccharides of serogroups A, C, W, and Y (MenactraTM, Sanofi Aventis; MenomuneTM, 
Aventis Pasteur); Tetanus Toxoid, Reduced Diphtheria Toxoid and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, Adsorbed 
(Tdap: BoostrixTM [EU formulation in V59P11 and US formulation in V59P18]); and Human Papilloma 
Virus (HPV) vaccine (GardasilTM, Merck). 
Page 22/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice regarding the clinical development programme was sought on several occasions from the 
UK  regulatory  authority  and  the  CHMP.  The  following  essential  issues  were  put  forward  in  the  initial 
scientific advice by the CHMP: 
-  The use of human complement in the Serum Bactericidal Assay (SBA) was endorsed 
-  Detection  of  SBA  against  each  of  the  polysaccharide  antigens  in  titres  of  ≥1:4  is  a  confident 
measure for clinical protection 
-  The  use  of  a  more  conservative  hSBA  threshold  titre  of  1:8  for  the  demonstration  of  non-
inferiority is acceptable 
- 
It  is  more  appropriate  to  make  a  distinction  between  initially  seropositive  and  seronegative 
persons;  a  fourfold  rise  in  hSBA  titres  should  be  considered  as  primary  endpoint  for  initially 
seropositive  persons  –  hSBA  titre  of  ≥1:8  one  month  after  vaccination  should  be  considered  as 
primary endpoint for initially seronegative persons only 
-  The suggested comparator vaccine (Menactra in adolescents >11 years) is adequate in principle. 
-  Additional  immunological  aspects  covered  in  WHO  recommendations  for  MenA  and  MenC 
vaccines should be considered (persistence of antibodies, response to carrier protein, etc) 
-  Standardization of the SBA should be extensively discussed 
-  Due to low incidence rates of MenACWY disease it is considered not feasible to generate clinical 
efficacy data; a plan should be in place to evaluate effectiveness post licensing. 
Largely,  the  Applicant  followed  the  scientific  advice  as  provided  by  the  CHMP.  It  should  be  noted 
however that in the Scientific Advice the company indicated that initial MA would be sought for children 
age 2 and older, and not 11 and older as is currently the case. The follow up scientific advice pertained to 
the clinical development in children younger than 10 years, and is not considered relevant to the current 
submission. Secondly, the standardisation of the SBA was not adequately discussed. 
The following CHMP guidelines in particular are applicable for this application: 
(cid:131)  Note for Guidance on the “Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines” (EMEA/CHMP/VWP/164653/2005)  
(cid:131)  Note for Guidance on “Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials” (CPMP/ICH/363/96)  
(cid:131)  Note for Guidance on “Note for Guidance on “Choice of a Non-Inferiority Margin” 
(CPMP/EWP/2158/99) 
Page 23/58 
 
 
 
Table 1 Overview of submitted and ongoing clinical studies in the Menveo development programme, including study details 
Study ID 
Geographic 
Location 
Study Objective (Primary) 
Design 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen; Route of 
Administration 
Subjects by arm
STUDIES FOR PROPOSED INDICATION:  
V59P6 
US 
V59P11 
Italy 
Safety and Immune Response 
of One Dose MenACWY vs. 
Menomune® 
Single-Blind, 
Randomised, Active 
Controlled Phase 2 Multi-
Centre (2 stages) 
• MenACWY 10-5-5-5μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY 10-5-5-5μg Ad - IM 
• Menomune® SC 
Safety and Immune Response 
of MenACWY with and 
without Boostrix®, vs. 
Boostrix® alone 
Observer-Blind, Random, 
Controlled Phase 3, 
Multi-Centre 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM (+ 
Boostrix® [EU Formulation] ) 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– (+ Saline) IM 
• Boostrix® [EU Formulation] IM (+ Saline) 
V59P13 
US 
Lot to Lot Consistency of 3 
Lots of MenACWY & Safety 
& Immune Response of 
MenACWY vs. Menactra™ 
Observer-Blind, Random, 
Controlled Phase 3, 
Multi-Centre 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM 
• Menactra™ IM 
V59P17 
Argentina  
Colombia 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY vs. Menomune® 
or Menactra™ 
Observer-Blind, Random, 
Controlled Phase 3, 
Multi-Centre 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM 
• Menactra™ IM 
• Menomune® SC 
V59P18 
ongoing 
Costa Rica 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY & without 
Boostrix® & Gardasil® 
Open-Label, 
Randomized, Active 
Controlled Phase 3, 
Single-Centre 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM (co-
administered with Boostrix®+ Gardasil®) 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM followed 
by Boostrix® followed by Gardasil® 
• Boostrix® followed by MenACWY 10-5-5-
5 μg Ad– IM followed by Gardasil® 
• 164 
• 151 
• 209 
• 359 
• 357 
• 353 
• 2649 
• 875 
• 1817 
• 899  
• 109  
• 540 
• 541 
• 539 
Age groups 
included 
No. of 
study 
centres
11-17 y 
11-18y /  
19- 25 y 
11-18 y / 
19- 55 y 
19-55 y vs 
Menactra™ 
56-65 y vs 
Menomune® 
Adolescents 
11-18 y 
3 
14 
44 
3 
1 
Page 24/58 
 
 
 
Table 1. continued 
Study ID 
Geographic 
Location 
Study Objective (Primary) 
Design 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen; Route 
of Administration 
Subjects by 
arm 
Age groups 
included 
OTHER STUDIES INCLUDED IN SUBMISSION:  
V59P1 
Switzerland 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Comparison of Two MenACWY 
Formulations vs. Mencevax® 
V59P1E1  Switzerland 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Persistence of Antibodies & 
Memory Response of Subjects 
Previously Vaccinated with either 
MenACWY or Mencevax® 
V59P2 
Finland 
Germany 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Dose Ranging Study 
V59P3 
Switzerland 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY with and without 
Adjuvant vs. Mencevax® 
V59P4 
US 
V59P5 
UK 
Canada 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Dose Ranging; 
Men ACWY with & without 
Adjuvant vs. Menomune® 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Schedule Finding  
Two or Three Doses With 
Concomitant Infant Routine 
Vaccinations  
Persistence of Antibodies, 
Booster and Memory Response 
Open Label, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled, 
Phase 1, Single-
Centre 
Open Label, Active 
Controlled, Phase 
2, Single-Centre 
Observer-Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled, 
Phase 2, Multi-
Centre 
Observer Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 1 Single-
Centre 
Double-Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Multi-
Centre 
Open-label, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Multi-
Centre 
• MenACWY10-10-10-10μg Ad+ IM 
• MenA+CWY 10-10-10-10μg Ad+ IM 
• Mencevax® SC 
• 30 
• 30 
• 30 
Adults 18-45 y 
• 1/10th dose Mencevax® IM 
• MenACWY 10-10-10-10μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY 0-10-10-10 μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY 10-5-5-5 μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY 5-5-5-5 μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY 2.5-2.5-2.5-2.5μg Ad+ IM 
• Menjugate® IM 
• MenACWY10-10-10-10 μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY10-10-10-10μg Ad- IM 
• Mencevax® IM 
• MenACWY10-10-10-10μg Ad- IM 
• MenACWY5-5-5-5μg Ad-IM 
• MenACWY5-5-5-5 μg Ad+ IM 
• Menomune® SC 
• MenACWY+ & MenACWY+ Boost IM 
• MenACWY+ & no Boost IM 
• MenACWY+ followed by 1/5th Dose 
Menomune® SC 
• MenACWY- & 10-5-5-5 μg Ad- Boost IM 
• MenACWY- followed by 1/5th Dose 
Menomune® SC 
• Menjugate® & MenACWY+ Boost IM 
29 Total 
• 15 prior 
MenACWY 
• 14 prior 
Mencevax® 
18-45 y 
Previous 
participants in 
V59P1 
• 109 
• 106 
• 103 
• 101 
• 104 
•  97 
• 30 
• 30 
• 30 
• 81 
• 79 
• 75 
• 80 
• 229 
• 49 
• 98 
• 135 
• 45 
• 45 
Toddlers (12-16 
months) 
Adults (18-45 years) 
Toddlers (12-
16months): 
MenACWY 
Children (3-5 years): 
Menomune® 
Infants (2 months) 
Page 25/58 
Table 1. continued 
Study 
ID 
Geographic 
Location 
Study Objective (Primary) 
Design 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen; Route 
of Administration 
Subjects by 
arm 
Age groups 
included 
OTHER STUDIES INCLUDED IN SUBMISSION:  (Continued) 
V59P7 
Finland 
Poland 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY with and without 
Adjuvant vs. Mencevax® 
V59P8 
US 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY vs. Menomune® 
V59P9 
Canada 
Schedule Finding 
Safety & Immune Response After 
One or Two Doses of MenACWY 
V59P10  Argentina 
Safety & Immune Response of One 
Dose MenACWY vs. Menomune® 
Observer Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Multi-
Centre 
Single-Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
in Children Open-
Label in Toddlers 
Phase 2 Single-
Centre 
Open Label, 
Partially 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Multi-
Centre 
Observer-Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 3 Multi-
Centre 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad+ IM 
• MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM 
• Mencevax® IM followed by 
MenACWY10-5-5-5 μg Ad– IM 
• MenACWY 
• MenACWY (+PnC) 
• MenACWY (+ DTaP) 
• Menomune® SC 
• 205 
• 331 
• 81 
• 453 
• 71 
• 73 
• 310 
Toddlers  
(12-35 months) 
Children  
(36-59 months) 
Children  
(2-10 years) 
Toddlers  
(12-23 months) 
• MenACWY 
• Menjugate® followed by MenACWY 
• 125 
• 50 
Infants  
(6 -12 months) 
• MenACWY 
• Menomune® SC 
• 950 
• 550 
Children  
(2-10 years) 
Page 26/58 
 
 
 
Table 1. continued 
Study ID 
Geographic 
Location 
Study Objective (Primary) 
Design 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen; Route of 
Administration 
Subjects by arm 
Age groups 
included 
OTHER COMPLETED OR ONGOING STUDIES OF MenACWY OUTSIDE OF INDICATION, NOT INCLUDED IN DOSSIER 
V59P2E1 
Finland 
Safety & Immune Response 
Following One Dose of Mencevax® 
6 Months After One Dose of 
MenACWY 
Open-Label, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Single-
Centre 
Mencevax® SC 
V59P2E2 
Finland 
Safety & Immune Response 
Following One Dose of Mencevax® 
12 Months After One Or Two Doses 
of MenACWY 
Open-Label, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 2 Single-
Centre 
Mencevax® SC 
• 94 Prior 
MenACWY 
• 25 Naïve 
Subjects 
• 175 Prior 
MenACWY 
• 62 Naïve 
subjects 
Toddlers  
(22-24 months)
Toddlers  
(24-28 months)
V59P14 
US 
Argentina 
Colombia 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY given with US Routine 
Infant Vaccines Followed by 
MenACWY Booster vs. Routine 
Infant Vaccines Alone Followed by 
two Doses MenACWY in 2nd Year 
of Life 
Open-Label, 
Randomized, 
Phase 3 
Multi-Centre 
• MenACWY (+ Routine Vaccines) 
• Routine Vaccines Only Followed by 
MenACWY 
• 3000 (planned)
• 1500 (planned) 
Infants  
(2 months) 
V59P16 
Non-IND 
Study 
UK 
Safety & Immunogenicity  
Memory B Cell Response to 
MenACWY at 2, 4 and months of 
age 
Open-Label, 
Randomized Phase 
2 Single-Centre 
• MenACWY 
• 216 
Infants  
(2 months) 
Page 27/58 
 
Table 1. continued 
Study ID 
Geographic 
Location 
PLANNED STUDIES 
Study Objective (Primary) 
Design 
Test Product(s); Dosage Regimen;  
V59P5E1 
UK 
Canada 
Safety & Immunogenicity 
Persistence of Antibody Response 
in Children Previously Vaccinated 
with MenACWY as Infants 
Open-label, Active 
Controlled Phase 2 
\Multi-Centre 
N/A 
• MenACWY  
• Menactra™  
V59P20 
US 
Canada 
Safety & Immune Response of 
MenACWY vs. Menactra™ 
V59P21 
US 
Safety and Immune Response of 
MenACWY with ProQuad® 
administered at various schedules 
V59P22 
Germany 
Safety and Immune Response of 
One or Two Doses of MenACWY 
vs. Menjugate® 
Observer-Blind, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 3 Multi-
Centre 
Open-Label, 
Randomized 
Phase 3 
Multi-Centre 
Open-Label, 
Randomized, 
Active Controlled 
Phase 3 
Multi-Centre 
Subjects by 
arm 
Age groups 
included 
• 376 Planned 
Subjects (40 
months) 
• 260 Planned 
Subjects (60 
months) 
• 100 Planned 
Naïve Subjects 
Children 40 
& 60m who 
previously 
participated in 
V59P5 
• 1580 (Planned)
• 1240 (Planned) 
Children (2-
10 years) 
• MenACWY followed by MenACWY plus 
ProQuad® SC 
• MenACWY followed by MenACWY IM followed 
by ProQuad® 
• ProQuad® SC 
• 610 (planned) 
• 610 (planned) 
• 610 (planned) 
Infants (7-9 
months) 
• MenACWY 
• Menjugate® IM 
• 400 Planned 
• 200 Planned 
Infants (6 
months) 
Page 28/58 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
A GCP inspection of 2 clinical sites, protocol numbers V59P13 and V59P18 and an inspection of the 
sponsor  in  connection  with  the  examination  of  the  current  application  was  requested  by  the  CHMP. 
The outcome of this inspection and the satisfactory responses to its findings are an integral part of this 
procedure.  The  overall  recommendation  was  that  clinical  data  could  be  used  for  further  assessment. 
No additional GCP inspection actions prior to authorisation were required. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No pharmacokinetic studies were  conducted. As explained in the  European Medicines Agency Note 
for Guidance on “the Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines”, pharmacokinetic studies are generally not 
required  for  vaccines.  The  kinetic  properties  of  antigens  do  not  provide  useful  information  for 
determining dose recommendations. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  is  defined  by  its  immunogenicity  profile.  Since  the  efficacy  of 
MenACWY vaccines is assessed by immunological criteria, all clinical studies will be discussed under 
Clinical Efficacy. 
Clinical efficacy 
• 
Immunological assays 
The  immune  response  elicited  by  meningococcal  vaccines  is  demonstrated  through  an  assay  which 
measures the serum bactericidal activity from the serum of vaccine recipients. This in vitro assay tests 
the  ability  of  vaccine-induced  bactericidal  antibodies  to  kill  meningococci,  when  in  the  presence  of 
complement. The hSBA was used exclusively in the development of MenACWY vaccine. 
A  validation  report  for  the  serum  bactericidal  assay  for  the  determination  of  complement  fixing 
antibodies against Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W135, and Y has been presented. Using a 
number of test sera the accuracy, precision, linearity and specificity was determined using a standard 
design for validation. The method was found to fulfil the set criteria for the different properties and 
therefore suitable for measuring clinical samples for documentation of immunogenicity.   
The SBA test as such has been adequately validated. On request the company described the procedures 
regarding their cultivation of the target strains and selection of complement and sera. The choice of the 
target strains for serogroup A and C was based on the recommendations by Maslanka et al 1997 and 
the WHO and for serogroup W and Y available strains recommended by VEU or CDC were chosen. 
The applicant has provided additional information which assures a high standardization of the hSBA 
assay.  
ELISA is an alternative measure of immunogenicity according to the WHO guidelines.  The Applicant 
has  measured  the  immune  response  by  ELISA  measuring  specific  antibodies  against  the  different 
capsule polysaccharides of the different serogroups in two ways: total IgG and high avidity antibodies. 
ELISA results have been presented from study V59P1, V59P2 and V59P3. In several of the clinical 
studies (V59P1, V59P2, V59P3, V59P6) immunogenicity has been  measured by two or more of the 
following methods using the same set of sera: 
a.  Serum bactericidal assay using human complement 
b.  Serum bactericidal assay using baby rabbit complement 
c.  ELISA measuring total serogroup specific IgG (μg/ml) 
d.  ELISA measuring high avidity antibodies 
Page 29/58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On  request  a  discussion  regarding  the  significance  of  the  different  methods  and  correlation  between 
these was submitted. The correlation of hSBA and rSBA (baby rabbit complement) was rather weak.  
The  results  with  the  testing  of  sera  with  rabbit  complement  demonstrated  that  subjects  with  hSBA 
<1:4 could still be considered protected according to the results of the rSBA. 
•  Dose response studies 
Early  dose  response  studies  (V59P1  &  V59P3)  demonstrated  the  safety  and  immunogenicity  of 
MenACWY, with or without aluminium phosphate as an adjuvant, in adults. 
Study V59P1 
Study  V59P1  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  a  single  dose  of  a 
MenACWY  conjugate  (CRM197)  vaccine  compared  to  separate,  concomitant  administration  of  the 
meningococcal A component (adjuvanted to aluminium phosphate) and MenCWY full liquid vaccine, 
and  compared  to  a  polysaccharide  MenACWY  vaccine  (Mencevax®).  This  early  clinical  study 
demonstrated that a single dose of the tetravalent MenACWY vaccine conjugated to CRM197 (10μg 
of  each  antigen)  was  safe  and  well  tolerated  in  healthy  adults  aged  18-45  years.  Immune  responses 
were  comparable  among  vaccination  groups,  as  expected  for  these  vaccines  (polysaccharide  and 
primary conjugate) in adults. 
In  study  V59P1,  15  subjects  out  of  the  30  in  each  group  were  selected  for  the  follow  up  study 
V59P1E1 which was set up to provide serological data from vaccinees challenged with a sub-optimal 
dose  of  Men  A,C,W,  Y  polysaccharides  1  year  after  the  primary  vaccination.  The  subjects  were 
randomly  selected  for  the  extension  phase.  There  is  some  indication  from  this  follow  up  study  that 
MenACWY has a reduced capacity to induce a booster response compared to a monovalent conjugate 
vaccine. The Applicant commented on request that differences between populations as well as inherent 
variability with the hSBA assay are factors that contribute to differences in response.  
Study V59P3 
In  study  V59P3  (a  phase  I,  observer  blind,  randomised  controlled  study)  the  safety  and 
immunogenicity  of  a  MenACWY  conjugate  vaccine  with  aluminium  phosphate  adjuvant  was 
compared  to  a  non-adjuvanted  conjugated  MenACWY  vaccine  and  to  a  polysaccharide  MenACWY 
vaccine (Mencevax®), in healthy adults. The conjugate MenACWY formulations were not associated 
with  clinically  significant  safety  concerns  and  were  generally  well-tolerated,  with  reactogenicity 
profiles similar to the MenACWY polysaccharide vaccine. Both conjugate vaccine formulations were 
immunogenic and induced IgG anticapsular antibody titres, as measured by total IgG Enzyme-Linked 
ImmunoSorbent Assay (ELISA). 
According to the protocol of study V59P3, SBAs should have been analysed – however, because the 
primary  objective  was  safety  no  bactericidal  testing  was  performed  and  immune  response  was 
measured by ELISA, which is considered acceptable for this study.  
The  results  from  both  Phase  1  studies  (V59P1  &  V59P3)  supported  further  evaluation  of  the 
MenACWY conjugate vaccine formulations either with or without aluminium phosphate adjuvant in 
younger age groups. The selection of dose and the decision not to use an adjuvant in the final product 
were based on three randomized, observer- or double-blind, controlled clinical studies in children aged 
12  to  35  months,  an  age  group  where  it  was  predicted  that  a  single  vaccine  dose  might  be  most 
discriminating between candidate vaccines (V59P2, V59P4 and V59P7). 
Study V59P2 
Study  V59P2  enrolled  600  toddlers  aged  12  to  16  months  into  one  of  six  vaccination  groups.  Four 
groups received one injection of adjuvanted MenACWY dose of each serogroup ranging from 2.5μg to 
10μg. Based on pre-clinical data suggesting possible interference between the serogroup A antigen and 
the other serogroups, the study included a fifth group, which received 10μg of serogroups C, W and Y, 
omitting  serogroup  A.  The  sixth  group,  acting  as  the  control  arm,  received  Menjugate  (serogroup C 
only).  A  subset  received  a  second  vaccination  of  the  same  vaccine  and  formulation  that  they  had 
received at study day 1. 
Page 30 of 58 
 
 
 
The results of this larger dose finding study, demonstrated that a 10μg-5μg-5μg-5μg dose combination 
for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y, gave the best response expressed as GMT in toddlers, age 12-16 
months. 
Study  V59P2  provided  some  evidence  that  the  immune  response  against  a  monovalent  conjugate 
MenC  vaccine  (Menjugate)  was  better  as  compared  to  the  response  to  the  (adjuvanted)  MenACWY 
10-5-5-5  vaccine  for  the  MenC  antigen.  The  result  was  supported  by  measuring  capsular  IgG 
antibodies by ELISA. This is possibly due to the higher content of MenC in the monovalent vaccine 
(10μg  compared  to  5μg  in  Menveo),  however  too  little  data  has  been  presented  to  make  any 
conclusions on the relevance of the observed difference. In their response the applicant presented on 
request briefly data from two studies in infants that were not submitted with the application. One of 
the  studies  indicated  a  better  response  of  Menjugate  compared  to  MenACWY  against  the  MenC 
component  while  the  other  study  indicated  a  similar  response.  Because  the  MenC  component  is 
important  in  the  EU  it  is  important  to  clarify  the  performance  of  a  tetravalent  versus  monovalent 
vaccine. The Applicant has committed to submit the study protocol for V59P22 with a time table that 
shows when the information can become available. 
In  study  V59P2  the  hSBA  GMT  was  significantly  higher  for  most  of  the  groups  at  the  German 
investigation site compared to the Finnish site. The Applicant discussed potential causes of the large 
variation  between  the  two  sites.    Also,  in  this  study  the  ELISA  method  for  measuring  capsular  IgG 
antibodies  was  discontinued  because  ELISA  results  were  considered  unreliable  as  a  correlate  for 
protection. 
Studies V59P4 and V59P7 
Study V59P4 enrolled 225 toddlers (aged 12 to 16 months) to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety 
of  MenACWY  5-5-5-5  formulated  with  and  without  aluminium  phosphate  adjuvant  and  non-
adjuvanted  MenACWY  10-10-10-10.  In  addition,  a  licensed  polysaccharide  meningococcal  ACWY 
vaccine  (Menomune)  was  administered  to  a  planned  group  of  75  children  aged  3  to  5  years  as  an 
immunogenicity comparator group. hSBA geometric mean titres (GMTs) were used in study V59P4 to 
assess the impact of the inclusion of the adjuvant.  
Study V59P7 enrolled 600 subjects: 400 children aged 12 to 35 months were to receive MenACWY 
10-5-5-5 formulated with or without adjuvant and 200 subjects aged 36 to 59 months were to receive 
either  non-adjuvanted  MenACWY  10-5-5-5  or  a  meningococcal  polysaccharide  ACWY  vaccine 
(Mencevax).  All  subjects  were  to  receive  a  second  vaccination  of  adjuvanted  or  non-adjuvanted 
MenACWY 10-5-5-5 at 1, 6, or 12 months after the first injection.  
Both  studies  V59P4  and  V59P7  demonstrated  that  the  short  term  immunogenicity  was  only 
marginally  increased  with  the  addition  of  aluminium  phosphate,  justifying  the  choice  for  the  non-
adjuvanted  10-5-5-5  MenACWY  formulation.  Study  V59P6  confirmed  the  marginal  effect  of  the 
adjuvant (see section on supportive studies). 
Following the initial assessment there was not enough data to conclude if the addition of aluminium 
adjuvant affects the long term persistence of bactericidal antibodies. In an extension of study V59P4 
(amendment 5), for a selection of subjects antibody persistence was evaluated at 12 months. Data for 
MenC  antibodies  at  12  months  provided  no  indication  that  the  presence  of  aluminum  phosphate 
adjuvant  in  the  MenACWY  formulation  affected  the  immune  response  to  MenC.  There  was  no 
significant  difference  at  day  360  between  the  5ACWY(-alum)  and  5ACWY(+alum)  formulations  in 
either hSBA  GMTs or  %  responders (≥1:4/≥1:8). The response to the  10ACWY(-alum) formulation 
did not differ significantly from the 5ACWY(-alum) or 5ACWY (+alum) formulations. According to 
the original Study Report of V59P4, the persistence of antibodies to N meningitidis serogroups A, C, 
W135  and  Y  at  12  months  following  immunization  would  be  evaluated.  It  is  appreciated  that  the 
presence of the adjuvant did not significantly increase the % with hSBA ≥1:4 and 1:8 to serogroup C 
at day 360 compared with the non-adjuvanted MenACWY formulation. No further testing at day 360 
was performed for the other serogroups.   
Study  V59P7  showed  a  low  response  to  the  MenC  component.  The  GMT  values  presented  showed 
some  inconsistencies,  as  the  6-month  titre  was  higher  than  the  titre  measured  1  month  post 
vaccination. Also, the proportion of subjects with titre  ≥ 1:8 (36%) and with titre ≥ 1:4 (49%) were 
both  lower  than  those  observed  in  study  V59P4.  The  applicant  discussed  that  the  difference  in 
Page 31 of 58 
response in different studies might be due to several contributing factors for example different vaccine 
formulations and different populations. 
•  Main studies 
The  clinical  program  included  one  pivotal  study  (V59P13)  and  four  supportive  studies  (V59P6, 
V59P17, V59P18 and V59P11). 
There were three primary immunogenicity objectives for these studies: 
1)  Assess  non-inferiority  versus  a  licensed  comparator  (Menomune  licensed  in  EU  or  Menactra 
licensed in the US); 
2) Establish clinical lot consistency for MenACWY; 
3)  Establish  non-interference  with  age-appropriate  vaccines  on  the  immunogenicity  of  MenACWY 
due to 
a) concomitant vaccination with Tdap (Boostrix) and HPV (GARDASIL) vaccine 
b) sequential vaccination 1 month following Tdap vaccine. 
Methods (general) 
The basic methodology of the clinical development plan for the MenACWY vaccine (as inclusion and 
exclusion criteria, the definitions for the immunologic, safety, and statistical endpoints) was conserved 
across  all  phase  III  studies.  Specific  objectives  and  populations  under  study  varied.  The  same 
laboratory techniques used for the hSBA assays were used in each study. Unless specified otherwise, 
the immunogenicity of each vaccine was tested one month post vaccination. 
Study V59P13 
The pivotal study, V59P13, was a randomised single blind controlled multicentre study to evaluate lot-
to-lot consistency of MenACWY and to compare safety and immunogenicity of MenACWY with that 
of Menactra™ (Meningococcal ACWY Conjugate Vaccine). 
METHODS 
Study participants 
Study participants were healthy male and female individuals, aged 11 to 55 years, recruited from local 
communities (44 centres) within the US. Next to general exclusion criteria common for most vaccine 
trials, specific exclusion criteria were: 
-  A previous or suspected disease caused by N meningitidis,  
-  A  household  contact  with  and/or  intimate  exposure  to  an  individual  with  culture-proven  N 
meningitidis infection within 60 days prior to enrolment,  
-  Previously  immunized  with  a  meningococcal  vaccine  or  vaccine  containing  meningococcal 
antigen(s)  (exception:  receipt  of  Outer  Membrane  Protein  (OMP)-containing  Haemophilus 
influenzae type b (Hib) vaccines was permitted).  
Treatments 
Individuals were assigned to receive either the investigational vaccine MenACWY Lot 1, MenACWY 
Lot 2, MenACWY Lot 3, or Menactra. 
One 0.5 ml dose of the final MenACWY formulation (10-5-5-5) or 0.5 ml dose of Menactra (4μg of 
polysaccharide conjugated to diphtheria toxoid) was administered by intramuscular (IM) injection in 
the left deltoid area. 
The comparator, Menactra, is not licensed in EU; it was licensed in the USA and Canada based upon 
demonstrating 
tetravalent 
meningococcal vaccine (Menomune).  
immunological  equivalence  of  Menactra  with  a  polysaccharide 
Page 32 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The primary objectives of V59P13 were: 
(cid:131)  To establish clinical lot-to-lot consistency between three lots of MenACWY with respect to hSBA 
GMTs,  in  adolescents  aged  11  to  18  years.  Lot-to-lot  consistency  was  established  if  for  all 
serogroups and for all pairs of vaccine lots, the two-sided 95% CI of the GMT ratio was within 
[0.5, 2.0]. 
(cid:131)  To  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  MenACWY  compared  with  Menactra,  as  measured  by  the 
percentage of subjects with seroresponse in adolescents aged 11 to 18 years, and in adults aged 19-
55  years.  For  all  of  the  four  serogroups,  the  lower  limit  of  the  two-sided  95%  CI  around  the 
difference (MenACWY minus Menactra) in the percentage of subjects with seroresponse had to be 
greater than -10% to accept non-inferiority. 
Secondary objectives were: 
(cid:131)  To establish clinical lot-to-lot consistency between three lots of MenACWY, as measured by the 
percentage of subjects with seroresponse and hSBA titre ≥1:8, in adolescents aged 11 to 18 years. 
(cid:131)  To  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  MenACWY  compared  with  Menactra,  as  measured  by  the 
percentage  of  subjects  with  seroresponse  (ages  11  to  55  years),  hSBA  titre  ≥  1:8  and  ≥  1:4  and 
GMTs (ages 11 to 18, 19 to 55, and 11 to 55 years). 
Blood was drawn before vaccination at day 1, and after vaccination, at day 29. From day 29 to day 180 
only safety was collected. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary and secondary immunogenicity endpoints are described above.  
Seroresponse was defined as a composite endpoint: 
If Baseline Titre is:  
Then Seroresponse is: 
Pre-vaccination titre < 1:4 
Post-vaccination titre ≥ 1:8 
Pre-vaccination titre ≥ 1:4 
Post-vaccination titre fourfold increase over baseline 
Samples Size 
Primary Lot-to-Lot Consistency: 
Within-group  standard  deviations  were  estimated  based  upon  results  in  study  V59P6.  In  order  to 
ensure high power for serogroup C, 525 subjects were planned to be randomized to each of the three 
MenACWY  lots  to  obtain  500  evaluable  subjects.  In  order  to  maintain  the  1:1:1:1  treatment  group 
balance in the randomization, 525 Menactra subjects were also planned to be enrolled. In addition, in 
order  to  conserve  human  complement  donor  resources  for  A,  W,  and  Y,  it  was  decided  to  assay  a 
smaller number of evaluable subjects (350) for each of these serogroups. With 500 evaluable subjects 
per lot assayed for serogroup C and 350 evaluable subjects per lot assayed for serogroups A, W, and 
Y,  the  power  to  reject  the  null  hypothesis  associated  with  the  primary  lot-to-lot  immunogenicity 
objective  and  to  demonstrate  immunologic  consistency  for  each  serogroup  is  97%,  >99%,  >99%, 
>99% for C, A, W, and Y, respectively. Assuming the results for the four serogroups are independent, 
the overall power to demonstrate immunologic consistency is equal to 96%. 
Primary Immunogenicity/Seroresponse: 
It was assumed that the percentage of subjects in the adolescent group (11-18 yrs) with seroresponse is 
similar in the MenACWY group compared with Menactra. With 1500 evaluable subjects assayed for 
MenACWY serogroup C (i.e. three lots with 500 subjects, see above), 1050 evaluable subjects assayed 
for MenACWY serogroups A, W, and Y, 350 evaluable subjects assayed for Menactra serogroup A, 
500  evaluable  subjects  assayed  for  Menactra  serogroup  C,  and  300  subjects  assayed  for  Menactra 
serogroups  W  and  Y,  the  power  to  reject  the  null  hypothesis  associated  with  the  non-inferiority 
immunogenicity primary objective and demonstrate non-inferiority for each serogroup is 99% for each 
of the serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Assuming the results for the four serogroups are independent, the 
Page 33 of 58 
 
 
 
overall  power  to  demonstrate  immunologic  non-inferiority  is  equal  to  96%.  Applying  the  same 
assumptions  used  for  the  adolescent  group  (11-18  yrs)  to  the  adult  group  (19-55  yrs),  the  overall 
power  to  demonstrate  immunologic  non-inferiority  in  the  adult  group  is  estimated  to  be  90%.  The 
estimate of the overall power across the three primary objectives is 83% (=96% x 96% x 90%). 
Randomisation 
In total, 3539 subjects 11 to 55 years of age were randomised at a 1:1:1:1 ratio to one of four vaccine 
groups (MenACWY Lot 1, Lot 2, Lot 3, or Menactra). Randomisation was stratified by centre and age 
so that 2180 adolescents (11 to 18 years of age), 413 adults (19 to 34 years of age) and 946 adults (35 
to 55 years of age) were enrolled. 
Blinding (masking) 
Subjects  were  given  MenACWY  or  Menactra  intramuscularly  (IM)  by  an  unblinded  study  vaccine 
administrator. The subjects were blinded to the study vaccine given. All safety follow-up performed 
by the investigator and study staff was also blinded.  
Statistical methods 
The GMTs, GMRs and two-sided 95% CIs were constructed by exponentiation (base 10) of the least 
square  means  of  the  logarithmically  transformed  (base  10)  hSBA  titers  and  their  95%  CIs  obtained 
from  an  Analysis  of  Variance  (ANOVA)  model  with  vaccination  lot  and  center  as  factors  in  the 
model. As a sensitivity analysis to incorporate possible baseline imbalance among the lots, an analysis 
of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  was  also  run  which  incorporated  baseline  log10  titers  and  status  for  DT-
containing vaccination in prior 5 years (status = with or without such vaccination) along with lot and 
center as factors in the model.  
The  two-sided  95%  CIs  for  each  serogroup  for  the  difference  in  proportions  (MenACWY  minus 
Menactra) were constructed using the differences of two percentages based on the chi-square method. 
As a sensitivity analysis, a logistic regression was performed which incorporated baseline log10 titers 
and status for DT-containing vaccination in prior 5 years along with group and center as factors in the 
model. Centers were combined as for the lot-to-lot consistency modelling.  
For  the  local  and  systemic  reaction  safety  variables,  differences  between  the  vaccine  groups  after 
vaccination  with  respect  to  all  variables  (including  fever)  were  analysed  using  Pearson’s  chi-square 
test, or Fisher’s Exact test where appropriate due to small expected cell sizes. 
RESULTS 
Participant Flow 
Page 34 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Ages 11-18 
Randomised (n=2180) 
Allocated to MenACWY (n=1640) 
Received MenACWY (n=1631) 
Did not receive MenACWY;  
Inappropriate enrolment (n=.3) 
Withdraw consent (n=5) 
Unable to classify (n=1) 
Allocated to Menactra (n=540) 
Received Menactra (n=539) 
Did not receive Menactra;  
Inappropriate enrolment(n=1) 
Lost to follow-up (n=31) 
Withdraw consent (n=5) 
Inappropriate enrolment (n=1) 
Analysed immunogenicity -
completed visit 2 (n=1611) 
 Completed study - visit 3 
(n=1594) 
Lost to follow-up (n=12) 
Withdraw consent (n=2) 
Protocol deviation (n=1) 
Analysed immunogenicity -
completed visit 2 (n=532) 
Completed study - visit 3 (n=524) 
Ages 19-55 
Randomised (n=1359) 
Allocated to MenACWY  (n=1023) 
Received MenACWY (n=1018) 
Did not receive MenACWY;  
Inappropriate enrolment (n=.3) 
Administrative reason (n=1) 
Unable to classify (n=1) 
Allocated to Menactra  (n=336) 
Received Menactra (n=336) 
Lost to follow-up (n=19) 
Analysed immunogenicity -
completed visit 2 (n=1010) 
Completed study - visit 3 
(n=999) 
Lost to follow-up (n=9) 
Withdraw consent (n=1) 
Protocol deviation (n=1) 
Analysed immunogenicity -
completed visit 2 (n=334) 
Completed study - visit 3 (n=325) 
Recruitment 
The first subject was enrolled on 1st March 2007; the last visit was completed on 16th January 2008. 
Page 35 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
The original study protocol, issued on Oct. 9, 2006, was followed by two amendments. 
The  first  amendment,  issued  on  May  21,  2007,  was  to  incorporate  changes  recommended  through 
regulatory feedback, provide clarification regarding responsibilities of study personnel, and define the 
coordinating  investigator  and  sites,  included  seven  major  and  six  minor  changes.  Two  former 
immunogenicity  secondary  objectives  were  changed 
the 
immunogenicity endpoint “4-fold rise in hSBA titre” was changed to “seroresponse”, the number of 
adults in the 35 to 55 year old age stratum was increased by 400 subjects, and medical history, safety 
assessment, and exclusion criteria were revised. 
to  become  primary  objectives, 
A second amendment was issued on December 20, 2007 to: (a) revise the evaluation of non-inferiority 
of MenACWY to Menactra by increasing the size of the subset of subjects to be analyzed for each of 
the four serogroups and by modifying the calculations of the power to demonstrate non-inferiority and 
(b) clarify that the immune response for examining lot-to-lot consistency would also be measured by 
the percentage of subjects with seroresponse and hSBA titre ≥ 1:4 and ≥ 1:8. All analyses planned in 
the  AP  (defined  and  approved  before  data  base  lock)  were  performed.  No  post  hoc  analyses  were 
performed. 
Baseline data 
Demographic  and  other  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  for  the  subjects  11-18  years  of  age 
randomised to receive one of the three MenACWY lots. The baseline characteristics were also similar 
for  the  subjects  11-55  year  of  age  randomised  to  receive  either  MenACWY  or  Menactra.  A  larger 
proportion of women vs men was recruited in the age group 19-55.  
Numbers analysed 
It was planned to enrol 3432 subjects. In total, 3539 subjects were enrolled and randomized to receive 
either MenACWY (lot 1, lot 2, lot 3) or Menactra. Of the 3524 subjects that received a vaccine, 2649 
received  MenACWY  and  875  received  Menactra.  The  overall  PP  populations  consisted  of  3393 
subjects, 2549 in the MenACWY group and 844 in the Menactra group, corresponding to 96% of the 
enrolled population in both vaccine groups. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary and Secondary Objectives Lot to Lot consistency (in the 11-18 age group): 
The  objective  of  demonstrating  lot  to  lot  consistency  for  the  primary  endpoint,  hSBA  GMTs,  was 
achieved  for  all  serogroups.  However,  it  was  not  achieved  for  the  secondary  outcomes  for  all 
serogroups. 
Primary Immunogenicity Objectives: 
The  results  for  the  other  primary  objective  (i.e.  demonstrating  non-inferiority  in  seroresponse  as 
compared to Menactra one month following vaccination) are presented in the following table. 
Seroresponse: Non-inferiority (11 to 18 year, and 19 to 55 year age groups) 
11-18 years 
19-55 years 
MenACWY  Menactra 
75% 
780/1039 
58% 
21/36 
75% 
801/1075 
79% 
771/977 
66% 
230/347 
67% 
8/12 
66% 
238/359 
79% 
260/331 
Vaccine 
Group 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
9% 
(3%, 15%) 
-8% 
(-35%, 24%) 
8% 
(3%, 14%) 
0% 
(-5%, 6%) 
MenACWY  Menactra 
67% 
582/875 
70% 
62/88 
67% 
644/963 
71% 
425/596 
67% 
191/283 
71% 
27/38 
68% 
218/321 
62% 
133/214 
Vaccine 
Group 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
-1% 
(-7%, 5%) 
-1% 
(-17%, 18%) 
-1% 
(-7%, 5%) 
9% 
(2%, 17%) 
A  Baseline titre  <1:4 
≥ 1:4 
   Overall 
C  Baseline titre  <1:4 
Page 36 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
≥ 1:4 
   Overall 
W  Baseline titre  <1:4 
≥ 1:4 
   Overall 
Y  Baseline titre  <1:4 
≥ 1:4 
   Overall 
68% 
345/506 
75% 
1116/1483 
94% 
570/609 
47% 
193/415 
75% 
763/1024 
81% 
510/630 
47% 
192/406 
68% 
702/1036 
62% 
105/170 
73% 
365/501 
83% 
150/180 
28% 
30/108 
63% 
180/288 
54% 
95/176 
22% 
26/118 
41% 
121/294 
6% 
(-2%, 15%) 
2% 
(-2%, 7%) 
10% 
(5%, 17%) 
19% 
(9%, 28%) 
12% 
(6%, 18%) 
27% 
(19%, 35%) 
25% 
(16%, 34%) 
27% 
(20%, 33%) 
61% 
223/365 
67% 
648/961 
82% 
131/160 
35% 
112/324 
50% 
243/484 
66% 
173/263 
45% 
108/240 
56% 
281/503 
51% 
53/104 
58% 
186/318 
71% 
67/94 
26% 
52/198 
41% 
119/292 
52% 
83/160 
27% 
39/146 
40% 
122/306 
10% 
(-1%, 21%) 
9% 
(3%, 15%) 
11% 
(0%, 22%) 
8% 
(0%, 16%) 
9% 
(2%, 17%) 
14% 
(4%, 23%) 
18% 
(9%, 28%) 
16% 
(9%, 23%) 
The  immune  response  to  MenACWY  was  found  to  be  non-inferior  to  the  immune  response  against 
Menactra in both adolescents and adults according to the predefined margins. However, as can be seen 
in  the  table  above,  seroresponse  was  relatively  low.  This  appeared  to  be  mostly  driven  by  the  low 
response in subjects who had baseline hSBA ≥ 1:4, and the relatively high proportion of subjects with 
baseline hSBA ≥ 1:4 in serogroups C, W and Y.  
After  first  review  of  the  data  the  lower  seroresponse  in  subjects  with  prevaccination  hSBA  ≥1:4  as 
compared  to  subjects  with  baseline  hSBA  <  1:4  in  the  pivotal  study  raised  the  concern  of  potential 
hyporesponsiveness.  The  applicant  provided  data  and  discussed  the  relevance  of  pre-  and 
postvaccination  GMTs  in  addition  to  seroresponse.  These  are  summarised  in  the  table  below  for 
subject seropositive and seronegative at baseline separately: 
Baseline titre 
<1:4 
≥1:4 
Serogroup 
Pre Vaccination 
GMT (95% CI) 
Post Vaccination 
GMT (95% CI) 
Pre Vaccination 
GMT (95% CI) 
Post Vaccination 
GMT (95% CI) 
A 
C 
W 
Y 
2.01 
(1.98 – 2.05) 
2 
(1.9 – 2.11) 
1.9 
(1.77 – 2.04) 
1.92 
(1.79 – 2.05) 
28 
(23 – 34) 
37 
(30 – 46) 
59 
(50 – 70) 
35 
(29 – 43) 
13 
(12 – 14) 
11 
(11 – 12) 
36 
(33 – 39) 
18 
(17 – 20) 
91 
(50 – 166) 
152 
(118 – 195) 
153 
(128 – 183) 
82 
(66 – 102) 
The  post  vaccination  GMTs  for  subjects  with  baseline  hSBA  titre  ≥1:4  are  higher  as  compared  to 
subjects who were seronegative at baseline, with a higher absolute increase. This supports that there is 
no  evidence  of  a  reduced  antibody  response  in  seropositive  persons  and  /or  an  indication  of 
hyporesponsiveness. 
Secondary Immunogenicity Objectives: 
The percentages of subjects aged 11-55 years old with baseline hSBA titre ≥ 1:8 at day 1 were similar 
between the two vaccine groups. At day 29, the percentages of subjects with hSBA titre ≥ 1:8 showed 
Page 37 of 58 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  large  increase  for  all  four  serogroups  in  both  vaccine  groups  but  were  consistently  higher  in  the 
MenACWY group (A: 72% vs. 69%, C: 83% vs. 79%, W: 95% vs. 89%, Y: 85% vs. 70%). 
The results for the secondary objectives confirm the findings for the primary objectives; for the entire 
study  population  (PP)  non-inferiority  can  be  demonstrated.  The  proportion  of  subjects  with  hSBA 
titres ≥1:8 one month after vaccination is reassuringly high, although a relatively high proportion of 
seropositive subjects at baseline was observed, especially for serogroup W135. 
Ancillary analyses 
A  larger  proportion  of  women  versus  men  was  recruited  in  the  age  group  19-55.  Upon  request  the 
MAH showed that both the immunogenicity results from study V59P18 (% subjects with hSBA≥1:8) 
as from study V59P13 (hSBA GMTs) stratified by gender did not provide any evidence of an effect of 
gender on the immune response to MenACWY. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
The  MAH  presented  supplementary  immunogenicity  data  (hSBA  GMTs,  %  subjects  with  hSBA 
≥1:4/1:8) from 83/84 subjects between the ages of 56 and 65 years (addendum of CSR V59P17). The 
responses  in  the  MenACWY  group  were  consistently  higher  as  compared  to  the  Menomune  group. 
More importantly, the response in the older age group (56-65 years) was not lower as compared to the 
response in the 18-55 years age group. The results from study V59P13 stratified by 10 year age strata 
did not provide evidence of a consistent declining immune response with increasing age. Nevertheless, 
there is some indication of a decline with increasing age, most notably for serogroup Y. 
•  Supportive studies 
Study V59P6 
V59P6 was a phase 2, randomized, single-blind, controlled, multi-centre study which provided further 
data on the immunogenicity of MenACWY in 424 adolescents, this time compared to a polysaccharide 
MenACWY  vaccine,  Menomune.  The  initial  objective  of  this  study  was  to  compare  the 
immunogenicity and safety of MenACWY adjuvanted to aluminium phosphate to that of Menomune. 
However,  after  enrolment  had  started,  the  decision  was  made  to  continue  with  an  unadjuvanted 
MenACWY vaccine, resulting in the addition of an extra stage and treatment arm in study V59P6.   
The primary objective of study V59P6 was to compare the immunogenicity of a single dose of either 
the adjuvanted (MenACWY+) or unadjuvanted (MenACWY-) formulation of MenACWY conjugate 
vaccine with the immunogenicity of a single dose of licensed meningococcal ACWY polysaccharide 
vaccine  (Menomune®),  defined  as  %  of  subjects  with  hSBA  ≥  1:4  directed  against  N.  meningitidis 
serogroups A, C, W-135, and Y at 1 month after vaccination, when administered to adolescents 11 to 
17 years of age. The study also looked at persistence of antibodies at 12 months post vaccination. 
The  primary  endpoint  (%  of  subjects  with  hSBA  ≥  1:4)  was  unlike  that  of  other  trials  within  the 
development  program  of  MenACWY,  as  it  was  not  discriminative  for  subjects  with  pre-existing 
antibody  titres  against  the  different  antigens.    Nevertheless,  the  results  of  this  trial  provide  useful 
supportive data, especially regarding the comparison with a PS MenACWY vaccine.  
At  one  month  after  study  vaccination,  both  MenACWY+  as  MenACWY-  vaccine  groups  showed 
significantly higher percentages of subjects with hSBA titres ≥ 1:4 for all four serogroups as compared 
to  Menomune.  Although  the  threshold  hSBA≥1:4  is  considered  to  be  a  confident  measure  for  short 
term  clinical  protection  against  invasive  disease,  the  more  conservative  threshold  of  hSBA≥1:8  was 
preferred, based upon the intrinsic character of the hSBA as this uses the starting dilution of ≥1:4. The 
results for V59P6 with % subjects hSBA≥1:8 are presented in the following table: 
Page 38 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA ≥ 1:8, Prevaccination & 1 month post vaccination: 
% with hSBA ≥ 1:8 
Time of blood sample: 
Parameter 
MenACWY + 
MenACWY- 
Menomune 
A 
Prevaccination 
1 month after vaccination 
Censored 
1 month after vaccination 
C 
Prevaccination 
1 month after vaccination 
Censored 
1 month after vaccination 
W  Prevaccination 
1 month after vaccination 
  Censored 
1 month after vaccination 
Y 
Prevaccination 
1 month after vaccination 
Censored 
1 month after vaccination 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
n (%) 
95% CI 
N 
2 (1) 
0-4 
158 
128 (81) 
74-87 
156 
126 (81) 
74-87 
156 
20 (12) 
8-19 
161 
138 (86) 
79-91 
161 
118 (84) 
79-91 
141 
66 (41) 
33-49 
161 
156 (97) 
93-99 
161 
90 (95)  
88-98 
95 
28 (18) 
12-24 
159 
149 (94) 
89-97 
159 
121 (92) 
86-96 
131 
2 (1) 
0-5 
148 
120 (81) 
74-87 
148 
118 (81) 
73-87 
146 
25 (17) 
11-24 
148 
123 (83) 
76-89 
148 
98 (80) 
71-86 
123 
19 (13) 
8-20 
146 
132 (90) 
84-95 
146 
113 (89)  
82-94 
127 
34 (23) 
17-31 
147 
139 (95) 
90-98 
147 
105 (93) 
87-97 
113 
1 (1) 
0.014-3 
179 
74 (41) 
34-49 
179 
73 (41) 
34-49 
174 
32 (18) 
13-25 
177 
112 (63) 
56-70 
177 
80 (55) 
47-63 
145 
37 (21) 
16-28 
173 
149 (86) 
80-91 
173 
112 (82) 
75-88 
136 
40 (23) 
17-29 
177 
143 (81) 
74-86 
177 
104 (76) 
68-83 
137 
censored: subjects seropositive at baseline removed from analysis 
When  comparing  the  immunogenicity  elicited  by  MenACWY-  (non-adjuvanted,  final  formulation) 
with  Menomune  (licensed  polysaccharide  vaccine),  in  the  present  study,  the  %  subjects  with  hSBA 
≥1:8 one month post vaccination is higher for all serogroups for MenACWY.  
After removal of seropositive subjects at baseline (defined as  hSBA ≥1:4) from the analysis (marked 
as  “censored”  in  the  table  above),  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  hSBA  ≥  1:8  one  month  post 
vaccination for all serogroups remained consistently high (81%, 84%, 95% and 92% for Men A, C, W, 
and Y respectively). This was confirmed by the secondary objective, hSBA GMTs.  The results of this 
study  are  clearly  supportive  to  the  demonstration  of  efficacy  by  MenACWY  (non-adjuvanted).  The 
results of this study furthermore supported the choice of a non-adjuvanted formulation as compared to 
the adjuvanted MenACWY vaccine (i.e. the difference in response at one month between MenACWY- 
and MenACWY+ is minimal).  
Page 39 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
For  Menomune  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  hSBA  ≥  1:4  of  46%  against  MenA  one  month  after 
vaccination was surprisingly low.  Plain polysaccharide vaccines such as Menomune are expected to 
mount a high level of bactericidal antibodies that are protective against disease in this age group (11-
17 years). In the earlier mentioned study, V59P4, Menomune was also used as a control vaccine and 
the  proportion  of  subjects  with  hSBA  titer  ≥  1:4  against  MenA  was  low  for  both  Menomune  (36% 
n=69) and MenACWY (41% n=70).  Upon request the applicant explained the characteristics of the 
SBA assay using human or rabbit complement and emphasised that comparisons between vaccines are 
more valid when performed within the same study.  
Regarding the persistence of antibodies, a relatively large decline in the % of subjects with hSBA≥ 1:4 
for serogroup A was seen over 12 months (48% drop) compared to other serogroups (3%, 0% and 9% 
drop for C, W & Y respectively) and compared to the decrease observed for Menomune for serogroup 
A  (2%  drop).  The  MAH  presented  additional  data  regarding  persistence  of  serum  bactericidal 
antibodies from study V59P13E1, an extension of study V59P13 in which hSBA was measured at 21 
months, with planned further evaluations, 3, 5 and 7 years after vaccination in a subset of participants.  
These data are presented in the following table (subjects were aged 11-19 years at vaccination). 
Serogroup 
A 
C 
W-135 
Y 
Menveo  
1 month 
75% (n=239) 
85% (n=278) 
96% (n=238) 
86% (n=239) 
Menactra  
1 month 
66% (n=134) 
83% (n=192) 
94% (n=108) 
70% (n=108) 
Menveo  
21 months 
36% (n=275) 
62% (n=275) 
84% (n=273) 
67% (n=275) 
Menactra  
21 months 
25% (n=188) 
58% (n=188) 
74% (n=185) 
54% (n=188) 
The  data  from  V59P13E1  are  reassuring  in  the  sense  that  the  initial  drop  in  hSBA  titres  against 
serogroup A observed in study V59P6 does not continue at the same rate, but may have stabilized at a 
lower level.  The results from sampling at 3, 5 and 7 years in study V59P13E1 will be important to 
verify and the applicant has commitment to provide follow-up data on this. 
Long term persistence is especially important when the vaccine is not primarily intended for travellers’ 
vaccination,  but  rather  for  community  intervention.  In  this  respect  it  is  important  that  the  Applicant 
has  also  presented  supporting  data  from  clinical  trials  in  infants  and  children  2-10  years.    The  data 
supports  the  following:  1)  hSBA  titre  against  serogroup  A  drops  substantially  between  1  and  12 
months post vaccination, 2) MenACWY performs better than the polysaccharide comparator vaccine 
(Menomune), and 3) a solid booster effect was observed after a small dose of polysaccharide or a new 
dose of vaccine. 
In  study  V59P6  serum  bactericidal  titres  were  also  measured  by  using  baby  rabbit  complement  in 
addition to the human complement.  While human complement was used for the whole population of 
148  subjects  in  the  non-adjuvanted  MenACWY  group,  the  baby  rabbit  complement  was  used  on  a 
subset  of  68  subjects.  The  samples  for  rSBA  were  randomly  selected  before  the  hSBA  results  were 
known. The results are presented in the tables below: 
Percentages of Subjects with Rabbit SBA Titers ≥ 1:8 (95% CI) at Baseline, 1 Month and 12 
Months After Vaccination (Study V59P6) 
rSBA Titers ≥1:8  
(%, 95% CI) 
Sero 
group 
A 
C 
Time point 
ACWY 
Baseline 
1 month post 
12 months post 
Baseline 
N=68 
37% (25, 49) 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
100% (94, 100) 
N=69 
16% (8, 27) 
Page 40 of 58 
Menomune 
N=70 
31% (21, 44) 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
97% (89, 100) 
N=70 
13%  (6, 23) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rSBA Titers ≥1:8  
(%, 95% CI) 
Sero 
group 
W 
Y 
Time point 
1 month post 
12 months post 
Baseline 
1 month post 
12 months post 
Baseline 
1 month post 
12 months post 
ACWY 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
84% (73, 92) 
N=69 
13% (6, 23) 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
97% (89, 100) 
N=69 
9% (3,18) 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
97% (89, 100) 
Menomune 
99% (92, 100) 
N=63 
67% (54, 78) 
N=70 
11% (5, 21) 
100% (95, 100) 
N=63 
71% (59, 82) 
N=70 
10% (4, 20) 
99% (92, 100) 
N=63 
75% (62, 85) 
Rabbit SBA GMTs (95% CI) at Baseline, 1 Month and 12 Months After Vaccination (Study 
V59P6) 
Sero 
group 
Time point 
ACWY 
Menomune 
rSBA GMTs 
Baseline 
N=68 
8.88 (5.07, 16) 
N=70 
7.91 (4.69, 13) 
A 
1 month post 
8159 (6045, 11013) 
3549 (2683, 4695) 
N=63 
N=63 
12 months post 
2462 (1683, 3603) 
1127 (789, 1612) 
Baseline 
N=69 
3.41 (2.41, 483) 
N=70 
3.17 (2.28, 4.41) 
C 
1 month post 
1791 (1184, 2708) 
917 (619, 1356) 
N=63 
N=63 
12 months post 
161 (78, 331) 
67 (34, 132) 
Baseline 
N=69 
4.69 (3.05, 7.22) 
N=70 
3.5 (2.33, 5.26) 
W 
1 month post 
9259 (6934, 12364) 
4598 (3495, 6048) 
N=63 
N=63 
12 months post 
1627 (870, 3044) 
157 (87, 282) 
Baseline 
N=69 
3.17 (2.3, 4.36) 
N=70 
2.8 (2.07, 3.8) 
Y 
1 month post 
7573 (5045, 11366) 
1441 (981, 2119) 
12 months post 
1389 (784, 2458) 
105 (61, 179) 
N=63 
N=63 
Page 41 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  response  as  measured  by  rSBA  is  much  higher  than  when  measured  with  hSBA.  The  results 
demonstrate that subjects with hSBA <1:4 can still be considered protected according to the results of 
the  rSBA,  which  seems  to  be  the  more  sensitive  method.  The  GMTs  presented  demonstrate  a  good 
immune response as measured by rSBA, with significantly higher GMTs 1 month after vaccination as 
compared to the comparator vaccine, and a similar picture at 12 months (though the difference did not 
reach statistical significance for serogroup C). 
Study V59P17 
Study V59P17 was an observer-blind, randomised controlled phase III multicenter study to compare 
the  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  one  dose  of  MenACWY  with  that  of  a  licensed  conjugated 
MenACWY vaccine in subjects aged 19-55 years.  In addition the immunogenicity and safety of one 
dose of MenACWY was compared to one dose of a licensed polysaccharide MenACWY  vaccine in 
health subjects aged 56-65 years of age. At the time of the initial application, serology analyses were 
still ongoing, and only safety results were submitted. The immunogenicity results for the older adults 
were received upon request. These are presented in the following table. 
Immunogenicity of MenACWY and ACWY-PS at baseline and one month after vaccination in 
adults aged 56-65 years. 
Percentage of Subjects With hSBA Titer 
≥ 1:8  
hSBA GMTs  
Menveo  ACWY-
PS 
7% 
(2, 20) 
N=41 
63% 
11% 
(5, 20) 
N=83 
87% 
(78, 93) 
N=83 
(47, 78) 
N=41 
21% 
(13, 32) 
N=84 
90% 
17% 
(7, 32) 
N=41 
83% 
(82, 96)  
N=84 
(68, 93) 
N=41 
67% 
67% 
(56, 77) 
N=82 
(50, 81) 
N=39 
94% 
95% 
(86, 98) 
N=82 
(83, 99) 
N=39 
20% 
27% 
(12, 30) 
N=84 
(14, 43) 
N=41 
88% 
68% 
(79, 94) 
N=84 
(52, 82) 
N=41 
A 
Day 
1 
Day 
29 
C 
Day 
1 
Day 
29 
W 
Day 
1 
Day 
29 
Y 
Day 
1 
Day 
29 
Menveo minus 
ACWY-PS)  
(95% CI) 
4% 
(-10, 14) 
23% 
(8, 40) 
4% 
(-12, 18) 
8% 
(-4, 23) 
0% 
(-17, 19) 
-1% 
(-9, 11) 
-7% 
(-24, 8) 
20% 
(5, 36) 
Menveo 
ACWY-PS 
Menveo / 
ACWY-PS 
(95% CI) 
2.71 
2.36 
1.15 
(2.29,3.22)
N=83 
(1.85,3.01) 
N=41 
(0.86,1.55) 
111 
(70,175) 
N=83 
3.79 
21 
(11,39) 
N=41 
3.56 
(3.03,4.73)
N=84 
(2.59,4.89) 
N=41 
5.4 
(2.47, 12) 
1.06 
(0.72, 1.56) 
196 
86 
2.27 
(125,306) 
N=84 
(45,163) 
N=41 
17 
(12,25) 
N=82 
164 
(112,240) 
N=82 
16 
(9.55,28) 
N=39 
132 
(76,229) 
N=39 
(1.05, 4.95) 
1.04 
(0.55, 1.99) 
1.24 
(0.64, 2.42) 
3.9 
4.2 
0.93 
(2.99,5.08)
N=84 
(2.87,6.14) 
N=41 
121 
(76,193) 
N=84 
28 
(15,55) 
N=41 
(0.59, 1.47) 
4.25 
(1.89, 9.56) 
Page 42 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  hSBA  titers  ≥  1:8  was  non-inferior  to  ACWY-PS  for  all  four 
serogroups and statistically superior for serogroups A and Y.  Similarly, GMTs were non-inferior to 
ACWY-PS for all four serogroups and statistically higher for serogroups A, C and Y.   
Study V59P18 
This Phase 3, open-label, single-center, randomised, controlled study in healthy subjects 11 to 18 years 
of age, evaluated the possible interference of concomitant or sequential administration of MenACWY, 
Tdap and HPV vaccines. In total, 1620 subjects were randomized at a 1:1:1 ratio to receive: 
(cid:131)  MenACWY  concomitantly  with  Tdap and  HPV  at  study  month  0  followed  by  two  injections  of 
HPV at month 2 and 6 (MenACWY+Tdap+HPV group); 
(cid:131)  MenACWY  at  study  month  0  followed  by  one  injection  of  Tdap  at  month  1,  followed  by  three 
injections of HPV at months 2, 4, and 8 (MenACWY → Tdap group); 
(cid:131)  Tdap at month 0 followed by one injection of MenACWY at month 1, followed by three injections 
of HPV at months 2, 4, and 8 (Tdap → MenACWY group). 
In  this  study  there  were  numerous  primary  and  secondary  objectives  of  which  several  were 
interrelated.  
The three primary objectives are described in the table below: 
Objective 
Endpoint 
Arms and timepoints to be 
compared: 
Non-
inferiority 
margin¹: 
Primary Objective 
1  To show that the immunogenicity of 
MenACWY is not interfered with by 
concomitant administration of HPV and 
Tdap vaccines. 
To show that the immunogenicity of 
Tdap is not interfered with by 
concomitant administration of 
MenACWY vaccine 
2 
3  To show that administration of Tdap 1 
month prior to MenACWY does not 
interfere with MenACWY response. 
% Seroresponse 
% Seroresponse 
Group I vs. Group II at 
month 1 
% with anti-diphtheria toxin  ≥1.0 
IU/ml & anti-tetanus toxin ≥1.0 IU/ml  
Group I vs. Group III at 
month 1 
Ratios of anti-PT, anti-FHA, anti-PRN 
GMC-s  
Group I / Group III at month 
1 
Group III at month 2 vs. 
Group II at month 1  
-10% 
-10% 
> 0.67 
-10% 
Concerning the primary endpoints, the relevance of the definition of seroresponse for Diphtheria and 
Tetanus has been questioned – as subjects with prevaccination antibody titres are not accounted for. A 
different  endpoint  would  have  been  more  appropriate  to  evaluate  the  second  primary  objective 
(concerning  interference  with  immune  response  to  Tdap).  Similarly,  the  significance  of  the  defined 
endpoint for the pertussis antigens is not known as a correlate for protection.   .  
Randomisation was stratified by gender. 
Immune response to Men ACWY 
The results for the primary MenACWY objectives of study V59P18 are presented in the table below: 
Primary immunogenicity objectives (MenACWY): % of subjects with hSBA Seroresponse 
Variable 
MenACWY + Tdap 
+ HPV (I) 
MenACWY→ 
Tdapa (II) 
Tdap → 
MenACWY 
(III) 
Vaccine Group Differences 
(95% CI) 
Concomitant 
(I - II) 
Sequential 
(III - II) 
Page 43 of 58 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
A   Baseline 
titer  
C   Baseline 
titer  
W   Baseline 
titer  
Y   Baseline 
titer  
<1:4 
≥ 1:4 
Overall 
<1:4 
≥ 1:4 
Overall 
<1:4 
≥ 1:4 
Overall 
<1:4 
≥ 1:4 
Overall 
N=460 
80% (76, 84) 
N=456 
81% (77, 85) 
N=37 
84% (68, 94) 
N=497 
80% (77, 84) 
N=337 
90% (86, 93) 
N=160 
69% (62, 76) 
N=497 
83% (80, 86) 
N=257 
96% (93, 98) 
N=233 
55% (48, 61) 
N=490 
77% (73, 80) 
N=362 
91% (88, 94) 
N=134 
59% (50, 67) 
N=496 
83% (79, 86) 
N=30 
87% (69, 96) 
N=486 
82% (78, 85) 
N=355 
88% (84, 91) 
N=132 
74% (66, 81) 
N=487 
84% (81, 88) 
N=259 
99% (97,100) 
N=215 
59% (52, 65) 
N=474 
81% (77, 84) 
N=362 
91% (87, 94) 
N=125 
58% (48, 66) 
N=487 
82% (79, 86) 
N=415 
87% (84, 90) 
N=43 
81% (67, 92) 
N=458 
87% (83, 90) 
N=319 
90% (86, 93) 
N=138 
69% (60, 76) 
N=457 
84% (80, 87) 
N=224 
90% (86, 94) 
N=234 
41% (35, 48) 
N=458 
65% (61, 70) 
N=333 
90% (87, 93) 
N=127 
46% (38, 56) 
N=460 
78% (74, 82) 
-1% 
(-6, 4) 
-3% 
(-20, 16) 
-1% 
(-6, 4)* 
1% 
(-3, 6) 
-5% 
(-15, 6) 
-1% 
(-6, 3)* 
-3% 
(-6, -1) 
-4% 
(-13, 6) 
-4% 
(-9, 1)* 
1% 
(-4, 5) 
1% 
(-11, 13) 
0% 
(-4, 5)* 
6% 
(1, 11) 
-5% 
(-22, 14) 
5% 
(1, 10)** 
2% 
(-3, 7) 
-5% 
(-16, 5) 
-1% 
(-6, 4)* 
-9% 
(-14, -6) 
-17% 
(-26, -8) 
-16% 
(-21, -10) 
0% 
(-5, 4) 
-11% 
(-23, -1) 
-4% 
(-9, 1)* 
a MenACWY alone 
* noninferiority criterion met (the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI >-10 %) 
** superiority criterion met (the lower limit of two-sided 95% CI >0%). 
There was no evidence to suggest that concomitant administration of MenACWY with Tdap & HPV 
vaccines had an effect on the immune response to MenACWY.  
From  these  data  there  was  some  evidence  to  suggest  that  vaccination  with  Tdap  one  month  prior  to 
vaccination with MenACWY interfered with the immune response to MenACWY, as non-inferiority 
could  not  be  demonstrated  for  MenW.  In  their  response  to  this  concern,  the  MAH  focused  on  the 
relevance of postvaccination GMT and seroprotection in addition to seroresponse. However, also post 
vaccination MenW hSBA GMTs were lower for the group who received MenACWY one month after 
receiving a DTaP booster dose (hSBA GMT: 104, 95%CI: 91-119, vs. 159. 95%CI: 140-181 for the 
MenACWY→Tdap group), as was the % subjects  with MenW hSBA  ≥1:8 (95%, 95%CI: 93-97 vs. 
99%, 95%CI: 98-100). Given the fact that seroprotection rates were still well above 90% and GMTs 
were high it is not very likely that the observed differences will be of major consequences. 
Immune Response to Tdap 
The results for the primary Tdap objective for study V59P18 are presented in the following table: 
Primary  immunogenicity  objective:  effect  of  concomitant  vaccination  on  immunogenicity  for 
Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Antigens  
MenACWY 
+ 
Tdap + HPV 
(95% CI) 
(I) 
MenACWY 
→ Tdap 
(95% CI) 
(II) 
Tdap → 
MenACWY a) 
(95% CI) 
(III) 
Vaccine 
Group 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
(I - III) 
Vaccine 
Group 
Ratio 
(95% CI) 
(I/III) 
Concomitant  
N=495 
N=459  
N=487  
Page 44 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diphtheria 
Tetanus 
% ≥1.0 
IU/mL 
% ≥1.0 
IU/mL 
Pertussis antigen  
PT 
GMC 
FHA 
GMC 
PRN 
GMC 
100% 
(99, 100) 
100% 
(99, 100) 
N=482 
51 
(47, 55) 
N=492 
341  
(310, 375) 
N=495 
824  
(732, 928) 
100% 
(99, 100) 
100% 
(99, 100) 
98% 
(96, 99) 
100% 
(99, 100) 
2% 
(1, 4)** 
0% 
(-1, 1)* 
NA 
NA 
N=452 
79 
(73, 87) 
N=458 
1107 
 (989, 1238) 
N=459 
1563 
(1390, 1758) 
N=477 
63 
(58, 69) 
N=485 
511  
(464, 563) 
N=487 
1198  
(1063, 1351) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.8 
(0.71, 0.9)* 
0.67 
(0.58, 0.76)* 
0.69 
(0.58, 0.81)* 
a Tdap alone 
* noninferiority criterion met (for D, T: the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI >-10 %; for PT, FHA, PRN: the 
lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI >0.67)  
** superiority criterion met (for D, T: the lower limit of two-sided 95% CI >0%; for PT, FHA, PRN: the lower limit of 
two-sided 95% CI >1.0). 
Non-inferiority of the immune response to Tdap when administered concomitantly with MenACWY 
and HPV, compared with the immune response to Tdap when administered alone, was demonstrated 
for the diphtheria and tetanus antigens. One month after vaccination, nearly all subjects in both groups 
had  antibody  concentrations  against  diphtheria  and  tetanus  ≥  1.0  IU/ml.  Although  non-inferiority  of 
Tdap with MenACWY & HPV to Tdap alone was established, prevaccination titres were high with up 
to 99% having achieved the endpoint for diphtheria and 87% for tetanus at baseline.  
Regarding the antidiphtheria ELISA GMCs, a drop was observed in the GMC for Diphtheria from 26 
(95%CI:  23,  28)  at  baseline  to  10  (95%CI:  9.1,  12)  30  days  after  vaccination  with  Tdap  in  the 
MenACWY→Tdap group. The observed low anti-D response in this group is due to the GMTs being 
adjusted  for  baseline  GMTs  (log10  baseline)  resulting  in  a  less  pronounced  effect  on  anti-D. 
Experience  from  the  use  of  other  diphtheria  toxoid  containing  vaccine  has  not  indicated  a  safety 
concern.  The  higher  response  against  diphtheria  toxoid  induced  by  Menveo  as  compared  to  Tdap  is 
explained by the higher diphtheria toxoid content in MenACWY. MenACWY contains between 32.7 
and  64.1  µg/dose  of  CRM197  (based  on  the  range  of  CRM  as  reported  in  the  SPC),  Tdap  contains 
approximately 5 micrograms of diphtheria toxoid antigen per dose.  
For  the  pertussis  antigens,  non-inferiority  was  demonstrated  for  PT  but  not  for  FHA  or  PRN. 
However, the clinical relevance of this finding is not clear since there are no established correlates of 
protection for pertussis. Also, it was found that subjects receiving Tdap one month after MenACWY 
had  a  better  immune  response  to  PT,  FHA  and  PRN  compared  to  those  who  received  Tdap  alone. 
Similarly, when comparing the % of subjects in the different groups with at least a four fold increase 
in  antibody  titre  for  PT,  FHA  and  PRN,  it  appears  that  those  who  received  Tdap  one  month  after 
MenACWY had a better response compared to those who received the vaccines simultaneously. Here 
too, the clinical relevance is unknown.  
Immune Response to HPV 
With  regards  to  the  effect  of  concomitant  administration  of  MenACWY  with  HPV  vaccine  on  the 
immune response to the HPV vaccine, this was measured by anti-HPV seroconversion and anti-HPV 
GMTs  one  month  following  the  third  HPV  vaccination.  Non-inferiority  of  the  immune  response  of 
HPV  administered  concomitantly  with  MenACWY  and  Tdap  compared  to  HPV  vaccine  alone  was 
demonstrated for the four HPV types for both endpoints, with seroconversion rates over 98% for all 
HPV types when HPV vaccine was administered concomitantly with MenACWY and Tdap and when 
administered  alone.  Nonetheless,  anti-HPV  GMTs  were  significantly  lower  when  given  with 
MenACWY and Tdap concomitantly.  
Page 45 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MenACWY 
+ 
Tdap + HPV 
(95% CI) 
(I) 
N=361 
1059 
(926, 1212) 
N=362 
1264 
(1134, 1408) 
N=492 
5286  
(4705, 5939) 
N=495 
908 
(798, 1032) 
HPV alone 
 (95% CI) 
(II + III) 
Vaccine Group Ratio 
 (95% CI) 
I/(II+ III) 
N=737 
1461 
(1327, 1608 ) 
N=745 
1701 
(1575, 1837) 
N=458 
6590 
 (6068, 7158) 
N=459 
1117 
(1019, 1224) 
0.73  
(0.62, 0.85)* 
0.74  
(0.65, 0.92)* 
0.80  
(0.70, 0.92)* 
0.81  
(0.70, 0.95)* 
HPV Type 
HPV 6 
GMT 
HPV 11 
GMT 
HPV 16 
GMT 
HPV 18 
GMT 
* noninferiority criterion met (for D, T: the lower limit of the two-sided 95% CI >0.5  
Study V59P11 
Study  V59P11  was  a  phase  3  observer  blind,  randomised,  controlled,  multi-centre  study,  evaluating 
the immunogenicity and safety of concomitant administration of a Tdap Vaccine and MenACWY in 
healthy subjects aged 11 to 25 years. 
The primary objective was to demonstrate non-inferiority of the immune response to a single injection 
of  Tdap  concomitantly  administered  with  a  single  injection  of  MenACWY  to  a  single  injection  of 
Tdap with placebo. 
Immune response to Men ACWY 
The immune response of MenACWY administered concomitantly with Tdap was evaluated in a subset 
of 245 randomly selected subjects. The results are presented in the following table: 
MenACWY immunogenicity results of V59P11 
Geometric mean hSBA GMTs at day 1 and day 29 
and GMRs 
% subjects with  hSBA titre ≥ 1:8 at day 
1 and day 29 
Variable 
Day 
MenA 
Day 1  GMT 
Day 29  GMT 
GMR (day 
29/day 1) 
MenC 
Day 1  GMT 
Day 29  GMT 
GMR  (day 
29/day 1) 
MenW 
Day 1  GMT 
Day 29  GMT 
Tdap + 
MenACWY 
GMT/GMR 
(95%CI) 
N=119 
2.14 (1.99, 2.31) 
34 (23, 50) 
MenACWY + 
saline 
GMT/GMR 
(95%CI) 
N=126 
2.21 (2.05, 2.38) 
50 (34, 74) 
16 (11, 23) 
23 (16, 33) 
Tdap + MenACWY  MenACWY + saline 
% of Subject (95% 
CI) 
N=119 
2% (0%, 6%) 
74% (65%, 82%) 
% of Subject (95% 
CI) 
N=126 
4% (1%, 9%) 
80% (72%, 87%) 
N=118 
4 (3.23, 4.96) 
89 (58, 136) 
N=124 
3.92 (3.16, 4.86) 
92 (60, 140) 
N=118 
25% (17%, 33%) 
92% (86%, 96%) 
N=124 
25% (18%, 34%) 
88% (81%, 93%) 
22 (15, 33) 
23 (16, 35) 
N=116 
11 (7.7, 15) 
73 (54, 98) 
N=124 
9.49 (6.93, 13) 
77 (57, 103) 
N=116 
53% (43%, 62%) 
96% (90%, 99%) 
N=124 
56% (46%, 65%) 
97% (92%, 99%) 
Page 46 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMR (day 
29/day 1) 
6.9 (4.84, 9.85) 
8.09 (5.69, 12) 
MenY 
Day 1  GMT 
Day 29  GMT 
N=117 
5.38 (4.2, 6.89) 
73 (54, 98) 
N=125 
5 (3.91, 6.39) 
70 (52, 94) 
N=117 
38% (30%, 48) 
93% (87%, 97%) 
N=125 
38% (29%, 47%) 
94% (89%, 98%) 
GMR (day 
29/day 1) 
14 (9.41, 19) 
14 (9.79, 20) 
There was no evidence of an effect of concomitant administration with Tdap on the immune response 
to MenACWY. The results for seroresponse clearly demonstrate an effect of baseline titre on response, 
which confirms the findings in earlier discussed studies.  
Immune Response to Tdap 
With  regards  to  the  effect  of  concomitant  vaccination  of  MenACWY  and  Tdap  on  the  immune 
response to Tdap, the results are presented in the following table: 
Primary Immunogenicity Objective: % subjects in the Tdap-containing groups with anti-
diphtheria and anti-tetanus titre ≥ 1.0 IU/ml and at least 4-fold increase for PT, FHA and PRN 
Day 
Variable 
Tdap+ MenACWY 
% (95% CI) 
Tdap + saline % 
(95% CI) 
Vaccine 
difference (95% 
CI) 
Diphtheria 
N=350 
N=345 
Day 1 
Day 29 
Tetanus 
Day 1 
Day 29 
PT 
≥ 1.0 IU/mL 
≥ 1.0 IU/mL 
4% (2%, 7%) 
94% (91%, 96%) 
5% (3%, 7%) 
85% (80%, 88%) 
0% (-4%, 3%) 
9% (5%, 14%) 
N=350 
N=345 
≥ 1.0 IU/mL 
≥ 1.0 IU/mL 
25% (20%, 30%) 
100% (99%, 100%) 
36% (31%, 42%) 
99% (98%, 100%) 
-11% (-18%, 5%) 
1% (-1%, 2%) 
N=286 
N=287 
Day 29 
4-fold increase 
76% (70%, 80%) 
81% (76%, 85%) 
-5% (-12%, 1%) 
FHA 
N=286 
N=287 
Day 29 
4-fold increase 
83% (78%, 87%) 
86% (82%, 90%) 
-3% (-9%, 3%) 
PRN 
N=285 
N=287 
Day 29 
4-fold increase 
84% (79%, 88%) 
91% (87%, 94%) 
-7% (-13%, -2%) 
For diphtheria, the higher % of subjects achieving titres ≥ 1.0 IU/ml one month post vaccination in the 
Tdap+MenACWY  arm  (94%,  95%CI:  91-96%)  as  compared  to  the  Tdap+saline  arm  (85%,  95%CI: 
80-88%) can most likely be attributed to the presence of CRM197, the non-toxic mutant of diphtheria 
toxin,  in  MenACWY.  The  low  level  of  responders  at  baseline  (4-5%)  is  unlikely  to  have  had  an 
influence  on this  conclusion.  With  regards  to  tetanus,  as  both  arms  approach  100%  of  subjects  with 
titers  ≥  1.0  IU/ml  one  month  post  vaccination,  the  difference  between  the  two  arms  in  baseline 
response does not affect the conclusions. 
The results concerning the immune response against the pertussis antigens are in line with the results 
of study V59P18, although in this study it is the PT and PRN which are more affected by concomitant 
vaccination with MenACWY (compared to the FHA and PRN in study V59P18). Again, the clinical 
relevance of the difference between the two arms is unclear.  
Page 47 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
During the procedure, a concern was raised about the limited data in elderly adults and the unknown 
impact of age on immunogenicity. Since the number of exposed in the oldest age strata is low (n=84) 
and  only  includes  persons  up  to  65  years  of  age,  no  final  conclusions  can  be  drawn  regarding  the 
influence on the immune response. Therefore, a statement has been included in the SPC that data in 
persons aged 55 to 65 are limited, and data in persons aged over 65 are absent. 
In  all  studies  a  relatively  high  %  of  subjects  had  antibodies  against  MenW135  at  baseline.  This  is 
unexpected  as  the  incidence  of  disease  due  to  serogroup  W  is  low,  and  outbreaks  are  rare.  The 
explanation given by the MAH is that baseline titres reflect presence of cross-reactivate antibodies to 
subcapsular  proteins  in  the  selected  serogroup  W135  assay  strain  that  contribute  to  complement-
mediated  killing  as  well  as  presence  of  specific  W135  anti-capsular  antibodies.  The  subsequent 
mathematical explanation that despite high baseline titres overcrowding may still lead to outbreaks, is 
a plausible hypothesis, but falls outside the scope of this assessment. Relevant is the interpretation of 
the hSBA results and extrapolation of these to protective efficacy that may be elicited by the vaccine. 
The Applicant was asked to clarify to what extent the subcapsular proteins contributed to the immune 
response of serogroup W, but also to other serogroups. It was clarified that the immune response to the 
vaccine  is  entirely  driven  by  capsular  polysaccharides,  and  therefore  must  be  due  to  anti-capsular 
antibodies. The Company has committed to substantiate that the vaccine response to serogroup W is 
indeed  specific,  i.e.  due  to  anti-capsular  antibodies,  and  not  due  to  (non  specific)  enhancement  of 
immune  response,  which  can  be  addressed  by  serum  adsorption.  This  can  be  done  in  an ongoing  or 
planned study. 
Despite  the  methodology  of  study  V59P13  being  endorsed  by  CHMP  during  a  scientific  advice 
procedure, it has to be highlighted that in the scientific advice the company indicated that initial MA 
would be sought for children age 2 and older, and not 11 and older as is currently the case. Therefore, 
the  relevance  with  regards  to  the  European  situation  of  the  comparison  with  Menactra  only  as 
conjugated meningococcal vaccine would raise some concerns. The conditions and order of testing the 
several  primary  and  secondary  objectives  were  not  clearly  defined.  Underlying  assumptions  as  non-
inferiority  margins  have  not  been  carefully  justified  and  placed  into  context  of  data  from  previous 
experience with PS MenACWY vaccines or conjugate MenC vaccines. The response of the MAH to 
the concern raised was not fully satisfactory. The choice of a non-inferiority margin should always be 
justified  on  a  case  by  cases  basis.  Precedents  from  other  regulatory  authorities  are  not  necessarily 
sufficient justification. In EMEA guidelines standard  margins are proposed with the reservation that 
these  margins  may  differ  in  different  situations.    However,  although  the  MAH  did  not  adequately 
address the issue, with few exceptions the results were such that it mainly concerned a methodological 
discussion without consequence for the current application. However, it should be very clear that these 
margins  per  se  are  not  acceptable  for  future  studies.  The  MAH  has  committed  to  adequately 
substantiate the margins for future studies.   
During  the  procedure  some  concerns  were  raised  regarding  concomitant  administration  of  Menveo 
with  other  vaccines.  In  study  V59P18,  it  appears  that  administering  MenACWY  one  month  after 
administering of Tdap has a negative effect on the response to the W135 antigen (difference = -16%, 
95%CI  -21%,  -10%).  Given  the  fact  that  seroprotection  rates  were  still  well  above  90%  and  GMTs 
were high it is not very likely that the observed differences will be of major consequences. However, 
this  has  been  correctly  reflected  in  the  SPC.  Also,  there  was  some  evidence  to  suggest  a  negative 
effect of concomitant vaccination with MenACWY and HPV on the response to pertussis antigens in 
studies V59P18 and V59P11. It is agreed with Applicant that the clinical relevance is unknown. The 
SPC has been updated accordingly.  
Factors  that  have  been  identified  to  be  critical  for  meningococcal  vaccines  to  be  effective  for 
prevention of disease in a region, is to prevent carriage of the pathogenic strain and duration of serum 
bactericidal  activity.   As  MenACWY  may  be used for  that purpose  in  the  future  it  is  important  that 
those  factors  are  studied  in  more  detail.    Conjugated  vaccines  in  contrast  to  plain  polysaccharide 
vaccines  have  been  shown  to  prevent  carriage.  The  impact  of  vaccination  on  carriage  is  especially 
important  when  a  vaccine  is  implemented  in  community  vaccination  programs.  For  the  present 
intended use in travellers this is less relevant. However, this may change when the vaccine is planned 
Page 48 of 58 
 
 
to  be  used  in  other  (i.e.  younger)  age  categories.  The  applicant  has  presented  plans  to  study 
meningococcal carriage in response to vaccination. If possible the correlation between prevention of 
carriage and hSBA titers will also be studied by the applicant.  
Clinical safety 
The safety of the final non-adjuvanted 10-5-5-5 MenACWY formulation was evaluated in individuals 
aged 11 years and older in a series of phase 2 and 3 studies: V59P6, V59P11, V59P13, V59P17, and 
V59P18. 
In  addition,  there  is  data  available  on  severe  adverse  events  (SAEs)  reported  from  11  studies  with 
either different formulations or dosages, or in a different age group. 
•  Patient exposure 
In  the  five  main  studies,  a  total  of  6724  subjects  were  exposed  to  MenACWY  as  a  single  first 
vaccination or a second vaccination.  In a pooled analysis, safety data for MenACWY was assessed 
from 6185 subjects aged 11 to 65 years, head-to-head comparisons were made with 1757 subjects who 
received Menactra, 209 subjects who received Menomune and 892 subjects receiving Tdap.  
Patient exposure: studies with the final formulation and dose of MenACWY in the targeted age 
groups (>11 years)  
a Subjects from V59P6 who received adjuvanted MenACWY are excluded. 
b Subjects in V59P11 are 11 to 25 years of age. 
c Subjects in V59P18 who received MenACWY followed by Tdap are included under the MenACWY column here and 
for the adverse events occurring during the first month after vaccination. Similarly, subjects who received Tdap 
followed by MenACWY are included under the Tdap column. Subjects from V59P18 are not included in the 
summaries of unsolicited adverse events occurring during the second through sixth months after vaccination. Data for 
the full duration of month 2 through month 6 are not yet available because this study is still ongoing. 
d Subjects in V59P11 received MenACWY + Tdap (EU-marketed formulation); subjects in V59P18 received 
MenACWY + HPV + Tdap (US-licensed formulation). 
e All subjects who received either MenACWY alone or with a concomitant vaccine (column 1 + column 2). 
In  addition,  single  or  multiple  injections  of  final  or  non-final  MenACWY  formulations  were 
administered  to  subjects  in  the  following  age  groups:  V59P1  (adults  aged  18  to  45  years),  V59P2 
(toddlers aged 12 to 16 months), V59P3 (adults aged 18 to 45 years), V59P4 (toddlers aged 12 to 16 
months), V59P5 (infants aged 2 months), V59P7 (toddlers aged 12 to 35 months and children aged 36 
to 59 months), V59P8 (children aged 2 to 10 years and toddlers aged 12 to 23 months), V59P9 (infants 
Page 49 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aged 6 to 12 months), V59P10 (children aged 2 to 10 years), ongoing study V59P14 (infants aged 2 
months), and ongoing study V59P16 (infants aged 2 months). For the two studies ongoing at the time 
of the submission, severe adverse events based on the safety database as of 15 February, 2008, were 
listed and evaluated. 
•  Adverse events  
Solicited adverse events:  
Solicited adverse events were categorized as local reactions, systemic reactions or other indicators of 
reactogenicity.  An overview of all solicited adverse events for MenACWY and Menactra is presented 
in the following table (pooled analysis). 
Local reactions 
Injection site pain was noted as the most common local reaction during the 7 days after vaccination. 
Severe pain was reported in 2% for both vaccines. Injection site pain was mostly reported during the 
first  3  days  after  vaccination.    Erythema  was  reported  in  15%  of  subjects  receiving  MenACWY, 
severe erythema was reported in 2% of subjects receiving MenACWY. In the Menactra group this was 
Page 50 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
13%  and  1%  respectively.  The  onset  of  erythema  was  mostly  in  the  first  three  days  following 
vaccination.  
The incidence of induration after MenACWY in pooled studies was 13%, induration greater than 50 
mm  was  reported  in  1%  of  subjects.  For  subjects  receiving  Menactra  this  was  12%  and  1% 
respectively. The onset of induration was mostly within the first three days following vaccination. In 
study V59P13, there was one subject with an extensive site reaction (8x13 cm) following vaccination 
with MenACWY. 
Systemic reactions 
In  total  the  incidence  of  chills,  nausea,  malaise,  myalgia,  arthralgia,  headache,  rash  and  fever  was 
similar  between  the  two  vaccine  groups.  Headache  was  most  commonly  reported,  followed  by 
myalgia.  The  onset  of  systemic  reactions  was  mostly  reported  within  the  first  three  days  after 
vaccination, except for rash and fever, which were reported equally over the first seven days. 
Other reactions 
The incidence of subjects staying home during the 7 days after vaccination was 4% in both the total 
MenACWY group and in the Menactra group. Staying home was most frequently reported within the 
first  3  days  after  vaccination.  The  use  of  analgesic/antipyretic  medication  was  17%  in  the  total 
MenACWY  group and 19% in the Menactra group (pooled studies, pooled age groups). Medication 
use was mostly reported within 3 days after vaccination. 
Unsolicited adverse events 
During month 1 after vaccination, headache (outside the first 7 days) was the only AE that occurred 
with  an  incidence  of  1%  or  more  in  the  total  MenACWY  group.  No  difference  in  the  incidence  of 
headache was noted between the total MenACWY and Menactra groups (2% each). During months 2 
to 6 (study V59P18 excluded), none of the AEs was reported by 1% or more of the subjects. 
The overall incidence of unsolicited adverse events was low – mostly these concerned adverse events 
that fell outside the predetermined 7 day period in which they were solicited (i.e. headache, myalgia, 
nausea,  induration,  erythema,  arthralgia,  rash).  The  most  frequently  reported  unsolicited  AEs  in  the 
total MenACWY group were headache (2% incidence) and  pharyngolaryngeal pain dysmenorrhoea, 
upper  respiratory  tract  infection,  cough,  nausea,  malaise,  pharyngitis,  and  vomiting  (all  1%). 
Concomitant  administration  of  MenACWY  and  Tdap  or  Tdap+HPV  did  not  affect  the  incidence  of 
unsolicited  AEs.  None  of the  “probably  or  possibly  related  adverse  events”  reported  during the  first 
month after vaccination occurred in more than 1% of the subjects.  
Summary of probably and possibly related unsolicited adverse events within 1 month after 
vaccination: MenACWY compared with Menactra in pooled age groups and pooled studies  
Total MenACWY 
N=6185 
Menactra 
N=1757 
Headache 
Malaise 
Injection site erythema 
Injection site pain 
Injection site pruritis 
Myalgia 
Nausea 
Injection site induration 
Arthralgia 
Erythema 
62 (1) 
34 (1) 
32 (1) 
28 (<1) 
25 (<1) 
23 (<1) 
23 (<1) 
21 (<1) 
18 (<1) 
14 (<1) 
Page 51 of 58 
20 (1) 
5 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
8 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
7 (<1) 
3 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
11 (1) 
4 (<1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diarrhoea 
Lymphadenopathy 
Rash 
Nasopharyngitis 
Dizziness 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
13 (<1) 
13 (<1) 
13 (<1) 
12 (<1) 
10 (<1) 
10 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
5 (<1) 
12 (1) 
5 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
Induration 
Criterion for inclusion in this table = 10 subjects in the total ACWY group. Cell entries are n (%). 
10 (<1) 
There  were  no  episodes  of  anaphylaxis  or  immediate  hypersensitivity  within  30  minutes  after 
vaccination.  One  non-serious  adverse  event  from  V59P13  was  of  interest  as  an  immune-mediated 
neurological syndrome, however, this event was considered unrelated to vaccination. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths were reported during or after the study period in the five studies included for the proposed 
indication.  Two  subjects  outside  of  the  proposed  indication  died  (one  person  of  hypovolemic  shock 
following the placement of a “double J stent”; one infant due to a lung infection). Both events were 
assessed as unrelated to study vaccinations. 
Of the 6185 subjects receiving MenACWY included in the pooled safety analysis, 40 (0.6%) reported 
at least one SAE from vaccination day through the 6-month follow-up in the five studies supporting 
the proposed indication. SAEs reported by more than one subject each who received MenACWY were 
spontaneous abortion (4 subjects), appendicitis and road traffic accident (3 subjects each), and suicide 
attempt  (2  subjects).  One  SAE  was  considered  probably  or  possibly  related  to  study  vaccine: 
spontaneous  abortion  in  a  19  to  34  year  old  subject  in  the  V59P17  study.  All  other  SAE  were 
considered unrelated. 
Serious Adverse Events in Completed Studies not included in the pooled safety analysis 
Overall,  there  have  been  292  SAEs  reported  up  to  15  February  2008  in  subjects  who  received  any 
formulation  of  MenACWY,  or  in  subjects  for  whom  the  vaccine  remains  unknown  due  to  the  blind 
nature  of  the  studies  that  are  ongoing.  Among  all  SAEs  reported  in  completed  studies,  five  serious 
adverse  events  observed  in  infant  trials  were  considered  possibly  related:  febrile  seizures  (study 
V59P10),  supraventricular  tachycardia  (study  V59P5),  idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (study 
V59P5), Kawasaki’s disease (V59P14), and infant botulism (V59P14).  
•  Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory tests (chemistry, haematology, and routine urinalyses) were carried out on samples 
provided  by  participants  in  the  first  two  studies,  V59P1  and  V59P3,  conducted  under  the  clinical 
development  plan  for  MenACWY.  No  significant  abnormal  changes  in  laboratory  parameters  were 
seen. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The possible effect of intrinsic factors (age and gender) and extrinsic factors (geographic location) on 
the safety results was evaluated.  
Concerning age, it was found that the group 35-55 years old reported less adverse reactions compared 
to the younger age groups, indicating a decrease in reactogenicity with an increase in age.  This is a 
known phenomenon for vaccines. Concerning gender, it was found that female subjects reported more 
Page 52 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse  events  compared  to  male  subjects,  primarily  regarding  injection  site  pain  (F:46%,  M:34%), 
and headache (F: 35%, M:24%) and “stayed home” (F:20%, M:13%). As the difference in the safety 
profile for males and females is similar for both vaccine groups it does not affect the comparison of 
safety between MenACWY and Menactra. Overall, there is paucity of data in subjects over 55 years. 
In  study  V59P17  safety  data  was  collected  for  subjects  between  56  and  65  years  of  age,  these  data 
were  not  integrated  in  the  integrated  summary  of  safety  because  these  data  are  the  only  safety  data 
generated in that age group therefore integration was considered not necessary.  
Regarding geographic location, the safety data from subjects out of the US was compared to that of the 
Latin American population. The only real difference between the two populations is in the reporting of 
malaise, which is higher in the Latin American population, and to some degree the higher incidence of 
chills in the Latin American population. This finding is considered to be of marginal importance. 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Thirty  four  women  in  studies  V59P13  and  V59P17  became  pregnant  during  the  6-month  follow-up 
period.  Twenty-eight  women  were  administered  MenACWY,  and  six  women  were  administered 
Menactra.  For  22  subjects,  the  pregnancy  is  ongoing,  and  is  being  monitored.  In  these  studies  there 
have been four miscarriages, five therapeutic abortions, and one congenital anomaly. One spontaneous 
abortion in V59P17 was judged related to the study vaccine due to temporal relation. The listings and 
overview of miscarriages or spontaneous abortions however did not seem to be complete and accurate. 
However the Company has adequately explained the differences in the numbers tabulated. From the 
clinical reports of single studies 5 spontaneous abortions/ miscarriages were identified. 
One  further  case  of  miscarriage/spontaneous  abortions  was  observed  in  study  V59P18,  however, 
follow-up on the  pregnancy status was not performed in this study. 
Elderly 
Data in subjects aged 56-65 year is still limited and no data is available in subjects aged > 65 years.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
5286  subjects  received  Menveo  alone,  while  899  received  Menveo  along  with  a  concomitant 
vaccination.  An  additional  539  received  Menveo  31  days  after  received  a  concomitant  vaccination 
(Tdap, study V59P18). 
Potential vaccine-vaccine interactions were evaluated in studies of MenACWY alone compared with 
MenACWY given with routine concomitant vaccines and of sequential administration of MenACWY 
given following Tdap. In the 11 to 18 year age group, MenACWY given with concomitant Tdap or 
with  Tdap  and  HPV  vaccine  increased  the  incidence  of  reactions  such  as  myalgia,  arthralgia  and 
malaise,  which  was  reflective  of  the  inherent  reactogenicity  of  each  of  the  vaccines  administered. 
There was no evidence in the present investigations of vaccine-vaccine interactions when MenACWY 
was  given  concomitant  with  Tdap  or  with  Tdap  and  HPV.  There  was  also  no  evidence  of  vaccine-
vaccine interaction when MenACWY was given 1 month after Tdap. 
However,  in  study  V59P18,  there  are  different  tabulated  values  of  reactogenicity  after  concomitant 
vaccination  with  MenACWY,  Boostrix  and  Gardasil.    According  to  the  clinical  study  report  for 
V59P18,  the  frequency  of  “any  reaction”  (local,  systemic,  other)  is  89%  and  local  reaction  is  85  % 
after  concomitant  vaccination  with  MenACWY,  Boostrix  and  Gardasil.  In  “Integrated  Summary  of 
Clinical  Safety”  report,  the  frequency  of  “any  reaction”  is  75%  and  local  reaction  is  54%  after 
concomitant vaccination with MenACWY, Boostrix and Gardasil.  The Applicant explained that the 
different rates of reactions after concomitant vaccination are due to differences in the measurement, in 
one  case,  reactions  to  Menveo  only  were  detected,  while  in  the  other  case  reactions  to  all  vaccines 
were recorded.  
Page 53 of 58 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
One  serious  adverse  event  from  study  V59P18  (hypophyseal  adenoma)  led  to  withdrawal  of  the 
subject from the study, this event was judged not to be related to study vaccine. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
MenACWY  was  well  tolerated  by  the  6185  subjects  aged  11-55  years  that  were  included  in  five 
clinical  studies.    The  reactogenicity  profile  of  MenACWY  was  comparable  to  that  of  Menactra. 
Although a large proportion reported pain (41% versus 46%), only very few reported severe pain (2% 
versus 2%). The levels of pain following vaccination are similar to what is seen with other vaccines in 
adults.  Systemic  reactions  following  vaccination  were  generally  low  and  comparable  for  the  two 
vaccines.  A  relatively  large  proportion  reported  headache  (30%  versus  28%),  though  few  reported 
severe  headache  (3%  versus  2%).  Headache  in  ≥10%  of  subjects  has  been  reported  for  other 
meningococcal vaccines, but also for DTaP vaccines as Boostrix/Infanrix and for Hepatitis A vaccines 
(Epaxal). 
In all clinical studies individuals who had been exposed to meningococcal vaccines in the past were 
excluded.  As  this  group  might  be  revaccinated  with  MenACWY  the  Applicant  has  committed  to 
present plans for further testing of immunogenicity and safety in this population, especially in persons 
who  previously  received  a  monovalent  (conjugate)  MenC  vaccine  and  persons  who  have  previously 
been vaccinated with a polysaccharide MenACWY vaccine. 
Based on the limited information provided in pregnant women, the MAA has proposed a pregnancy 
registry  involving  two  complementary  methodologies.  Two  signal  detection  approaches  will  be 
employed in tandem, one using a prospective cohort methodology and the second using a case/control 
design. The applicant has committed to submit study protocols, including (among others) sample size 
calculations and study milestones. 
The lack of data in elderly has been addressed in the RMP and the SPC has been updated accordingly. 
The MAA has committed to present safety data stratified by age in future PSURs. 
The risk of vaccine failure is an important risk with most vaccines and has been included in the list of 
potential risks.  
As the MAA applied for a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) according to EU regulation 1901/2006, 
the agreed studies in this PIP and hence the milestones and objectives of this development have been 
included in the EU-RMP. 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Summary of the risk management plan: 
Page 54 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern  
Identified risks: 
Important potential risks 
Guillain-Barré Syndrome  
Acute disseminated 
encephalomyelitis 
Anaphylactic reactions 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional)  
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities (routine and 
additional)  
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance  
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC section 4.3  provides a 
warning that individuals who 
are hypersensitive to any 
component of the vaccine 
should not be vaccinated  
SPC section 4.4 notes that 
individuals with 
thrombocytopenia or other 
bleeding diatheses could be at 
increased risk of complications 
from an intramuscular injection 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
SPC section 4.6 declares that 
there are limited data on 
Menveo’s use in pregnant or 
lactating women 
SPC section 4.2 notes that there 
are insufficient data on these 
populations 
SPC section 4.2 states  the need 
for, and timing of, a booster 
dose of Menveo has not yet 
been determined 
SPC section 4.2 notes that there 
are insufficient data on children 
< 11 years 
SPC section 4.6 declares that 
there are limited data on 
Menveo’s use in pregnant or 
lactating women 
SPC section 4.2 notes that there 
are insufficient data on these 
populations 
SPC section 4.2 states  the need 
for, and timing of, a booster 
dose of Menveo has not yet 
been determined 
SPC section 4.2 notes that there 
are insufficient data on children 
< 11 years 
Thrombocytopenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Vasculitis 
Whole limb swelling 
Brachial neuritis 
Injection site reactions (severe) 
Systemic reactions (severe) 
Vaccine failure 
Important missing information 
Safety of vaccine during 
pregnancy or lactation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
Pregnancy registry 
Off label use in pediatric or 
elderly populations 
Exposure to repeated doses, 
including booster responses  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Safety of vaccines in children < 
11 years 
Pediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) 
Safety of vaccine during 
pregnancy or lactation 
Pregnancy registry 
Off label use in pediatric or 
elderly populations 
Exposure to repeated doses, 
including booster responses  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Safety of vaccines in children < 
11 years 
Pediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) 
Page 55 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  dossier  covers 
intermediates  (CRM197,  MenA,  MenC,  MenW,  Men  Y 
polysaccharides and the Men-CRM conjugates), the lyophilised MenA conjugate component and the 
MenCWY liquid conjugate component as finished products. 
the  process 
The  Applicant  detailed  the  manufacturing  processes.  Overall,  the  production  of  all  polysaccharides, 
CRM and Men-CRM conjugates is consistent. The analytical control procedures are summarised and 
the  acceptance  criteria  and  validation  results  are  reported.  The  manufacturing  process  for  purified 
polysaccharides is acceptably controlled and has been validated. 
During the evaluation procedure a major objection was raised. The major objection was related to the 
alert limits for bioburden and the extremely high bioburden levels observed during validation of the 
drug  substance.  Satisfactory  response  was  provided.    The  Company  has  also  committed  to  provide 
additional  information  post-approval  as  defined  in  the  follow-up  measures.    The  shelf  life  for 
MenCWY Liquid and MenA Lyo of 24 months when stored at 2-8 °C is accepted. 
In conclusion, the benefit/risk ratio was found positive with regard to the quality of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  program  for  non-clinical  pharmacology  is  limited  to  immunogenicity  data  in  mice  and  rabbits 
using  ELISA  and  serum  bactericidal  assay.  The  mouse  immunogenicity  data  are  not  relevant  as  all 
studies  have  been  carried  with  inclusion  of  an  adjuvant.  The  rabbit  data  indicate  that  the  intended 
formulation  of  MenACWY  is  able  to  induce  an  antibody  response  to  all  antigens,  which  is  also 
associated with serum-bactericidal activity. No important safety concerns were identified.  
Efficacy 
Throughout  the  studies  submitted  by  the  Applicant,  MenACWY  induced  an  immune  response  in 
adolescents  (11  years  and  older)  and  adults  leading  to  (short  term)  seroprotection  against  invasive 
disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W135 and Y as defined by a hSBA titre of 
>1:8. For the main immunogenicity study (V59P13) this was achieved in 72%, 83%, 95% and 85% of 
subjects for A, C, W135 and Y respectively (% subjects with hSBA≥ 1:8). In the supportive studies, 
similar percentages of vaccinees achieved hSBA titres ≥1:8 one month after vaccination. 
The immune response to Menveo one month after vaccination was similar (for W and Y) or better (for 
A  and  C)  as  compared  to  the  immune  response  to  a  plain  polysaccharide  MenACWY  vaccine. 
Additionally,  non-inferiority  to  the  immune  response  of  another  protein  conjugated  MenACWY 
vaccine was shown. Moreover, there is no evidence that concomitant administration of Menveo with 
Tdap and HPV vaccine affects the short term immune response to the Men A, C, W, or Y antigens.  
Safety 
MenACWY was associated with a range of local and systemic adverse reactions commonly seen for 
vaccines, such as pain, erythema and induration, headache, myalgia, chills, and malaise. These adverse 
events were rarely severe. Concomitant administration with Tdap & HPV resulted in a slight increase 
in reactogenicity as expected. Overall, the safety profile, which was determined in over 6000 persons, 
does not preclude the use of MenACWY in adolescents (11-18 years) and adults (19-55 years).  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
Page 56 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  User consultation 
The  applicant  provided  a  bridging  document  to  indicate  the  similarities  and  differences  between  the 
PL for Menjugate and the PL for Menveo. Their patient information leaflets are very similar, therefore 
the company, as detailed in the Guideline concerning consultation with target patient groups for the 
package  leaflet  product,  for  Menveo  references  to  the  Menjugate  user  testing.  This  was  judged 
acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
MenACWY was shown to induce an immune response in adolescents (11 years and older) and adults 
leading  to  (short  term)  seroprotection  against  invasive  disease  caused  by  Neisseria  meningitidis 
serogroups  A,  C,  W135  and  Y.    These  are  part  of  the  five  serogroups  (A,  B,  C,  Y  and  W135) 
responsible for the vast majority of cases of meningococcal disease worldwide. 
The possible benefits of MenACWY over currently available vaccines are the presence of additional 
serogroups,  in  order  to  provide  broader  protection  (to  A,  W  and  Y)  in  settings  where  this  would  be 
necessary.  
Secondly,  plain  polysaccharide  vaccines  are  known  to  be  less  effective  compared  to  conjugated 
vaccines  in  infants  and  young  children  and  they  do  not  mount  a  booster  response.  After  repeated 
injections  the  response  is  less  than  for  the  first  primary  response,  a  term  referred  to  as 
hyporesponsiveness.  The  lack  of  hypo-responsiveness  of  MenACWY  was  demonstrated  in  study 
V59P1E1  where  a  challenge  with  plain  polysaccharide  vaccine  was  applied,  and  in  study  V59P7 
where two doses of MenACWY was applied to toddlers 12-35 months.  
An  impact  of  MenACWY  on  pharyngeal  carriage  on  meningococcal  bacteria  has  not  been 
investigated, but is supposed to be a benefit of conjugated meningococcal vaccines.  
Risks 
Considering  the  age  limit  in  the  currently  sought  indication,  the  data  suggest  that  this  vaccine  is 
mainly  suitable  for  persons  travelling  to  areas  where  meningococcal  disease  occurs  due  to  other 
serogroups than prevalent in their own countries. Hence, for the European situation, protection against 
mainly A, but also W135 and Y are most essential. MenC is more prevalent in the EU, and in several 
countries part of the childhood immunization programme.  
However further data should be generated in order to document the effect of a repeated dose/booster 
dose in the age group covered by the indication for use. Such data should also include the potential for 
increased side effects due to repeated vaccination. 
Furthermore  there  was  evidence  suggesting  a  negative  effect  of  concomitant  administration  of  Tdap 
with Menveo on the immune response to the pertussis antigens. The clinical relevance of this effect is 
presently  unknown.  A  drop  in  the  antidiphtheria  Elisa  GMC  seen  one  month  following  vaccination 
with  Tdap  compared  to  baseline  was  explained  by  an  initial  response  to  the  Menveo  CRM  carrier 
protein. Similarly, there is evidence suggesting a negative effect on the response to the W135 antigen 
when Menveo is administered one month after administration of Tdap.  
It has also to be noted that there is limited data for use in subjects aged 56-65 years and no data in 
individuals aged > 65 years old. 
Balance 
The currently available immunogenicity data with regard to short term (one month) and long term (> 
12 / 21 months) protection in subjects aged 11 years and above, can be considered sufficient to support 
Page 57 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approval  of  a  vaccine  intended  for  subjects  (from  11  years  of  age)  at  risk  of  exposure  to  Neisseria 
meningitidis serogroups A, C, W135 and Y. Although further persistence data should be generated in 
order  to  document  whether  a  booster  dose  is  needed.  Furthermore  the  safety  data  available  do  not 
preclude the use of the vaccine. 
From  a  clinical  point  of  view  the  B/R  of  Menveo  is  positive  for  the  proposed  indication  as  the 
outstanding issues have been addressed appropriately and the SPC has been adapted accordingly. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Menveo for the “active immunization of adolescents (from 
11 years of age) and adults at risk of exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y, to 
prevent  invasive  disease.  The  use  of  this  vaccine  should  be  in  accordance  with  official 
recommendations.”  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Furthermore, the CHMP takes note that the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan is not fully completed 
yet as only some of the measures are completed. The CHMP reviewed the already available paediatric 
data of studies subject to this plan and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Page 58 of 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
