EMA/595072/2015 
EMEA/H/C/001095 
EPAR summary for the public 
Menveo 
meningococcal group A, C, W135 and Y conjugate vaccine 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Menveo. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Menveo.  
What is Menveo? 
Menveo is a vaccine. It is available as a powder and solution that are mixed together to make a 
solution for injection. It contains parts of the bacterium Neisseria meningitidis (N. meningitidis). 
What is Menveo used for? 
Menveo is used to protect adults and children from the age of two against invasive disease caused by 
four groups of the bacterium N. meningitidis (A, C, W135, and Y).  
Menveo is used in people who are at risk of exposure to the bacterium. Invasive disease occurs when 
the bacteria spread through the body causing serious infections such as meningitis (infection of the 
membranes that surround the brain and spine) and septicaemia (blood infection). 
The vaccine should be given according to official recommendations. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Menveo used? 
Menveo is given as a single injection preferably into the shoulder muscle. Menveo must not be given 
into a blood vessel or into or under the skin. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Menveo work? 
Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) how to defend itself 
against a disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the 
bacterium contained in the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. When the person is 
exposed to the bacterium, these antibodies together with other components of the immune system will 
be able to kill the bacteria and help protect against the disease. 
Menveo contains small amounts of oligosaccharides (a type of sugar) extracted from four groups of the 
N. meningitidis bacterium: A, C, W135 and Y. These have been purified, then ‘conjugated’ (attached) 
to a protein from the bacterium Corynebacterium diphtheriae. This helps to enhance the immune 
response. 
How has Menveo been studied? 
The ability of Menveo to trigger the production of antibodies (immunogenicity) was assessed in a main 
study involving almost 4,000 participants aged 11 years and above and in a second main study 
involving almost 3,000 children between two and 10 years old. Menveo was compared with a similar 
conjugated vaccine against N. meningitidis. The main measure of effectiveness was whether Menveo 
was as good as the comparator vaccine at stimulating immune response against the four types of 
N. meningitidis oligosaccharides. 
What benefit has Menveo shown during the studies? 
The results of the main studies showed that Menveo was as effective as the comparator vaccine in 
stimulating an immune response against all four types of N. meningitidis oligosaccharides in adults and 
children from the age of two. The number of people who had an immune response against the 
oligosaccharides was similar for the two vaccines. 
What is the risk associated with Menveo? 
The most common side effects with Menveo in adults and children from the age of 11 (seen in more 
than 1 patient in 10) are headache, nausea (feeling sick), malaise (feeling unwell), myalgia (muscle 
pain), as well as pain, erythema (reddening of the skin) and induration (hardening) at the site of 
injection. In children between two and 10 years old, the most common side effects were similar and 
also included sleepiness and irritability. For the full list of all side effects reported with Menveo, see the 
package leaflet. 
Menveo must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances or any of 
the other ingredients, including diphtheria toxoid. The vaccine must not be given to anyone who has 
had a life-threatening reaction to a vaccine that contains similar components in the past. Vaccination 
should be postponed in people who have a high fever. 
Why has Menveo been approved? 
The CHMP noted that five N. meningitidis bacterial groups (A, B, C, W135 and Y) are responsible for 
invasive disease, and that Menveo provides broader protection than other available vaccines. The 
Committee noted that Menveo offers the benefits of conjugated vaccines, including producing a 
stronger immune response in young children. The Committee therefore decided that Menveo’s benefits 
are greater than its risks in people who are at risk of exposure to N. meningitidis bacterium, and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Menveo  
EMA/595072/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Menveo? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Menveo is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Menveo, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Menveo 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Menveo on 15 March 2010.  
The full EPAR for Menveo can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports . For more information about treatment with Menveo, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2015. 
Menveo  
EMA/595072/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
