Amsterdam, 23 January 2020 
EMA/71871/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Type II variation assessment report 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001095/II/0093 
Invented name: Menveo 
International non-proprietary name: Meningococcal group A, C, W135 and Y 
conjugate vaccine 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): GSK Vaccines S.r.l 
This application is in the area of: (Non-)Clinical 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 3 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 3 
4. EPAR changes ......................................................................................... 4 
5. Introduction ............................................................................................ 6 
6. Clinical Safety aspects............................................................................. 6 
6.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ..................................................................... 6 
6.2. Results ............................................................................................................... 6 
6.3. MAH’s discussion .................................................................................................. 8 
7. PRAC advice ............................................................................................ 9 
8. Changes to the Product Information ....................................................... 9 
9. Appendix 1 ............................................................................................ 10 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 2/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, GSK Vaccines S.r.l submitted to the 
European Medicines Agency on 5 November 2019 an application for a variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.3.b  
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL intended to 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA and 
implement the outcome of a procedure concerning PSUR or 
IIIB 
PASS or the outcome of the assessment done under A 
45/46 - Change(s) with new additional data submitted by 
the MAH 
Update of section 4.8 of the SmPC in order to include lymphadenopathy as a new expected adverse reaction 
after vaccination in Post-marketing experience based on final results from study V59_77 and substantiated 
by supportive clinical data only to establish frequency, following CHMP assessment of procedure P46/039. 
Section 4 of the Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. In addition, the Marketing authorisation holder 
(MAH) took the opportunity to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template version 10.1. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
A review of lymphadenopathy was carried out. The MAH’s clinical trial database (including the case report 
from clinical study V59_77 reporting ‘lymphadenopathy’), the MAH’s safety database, the Eudravigilance 
database and literature were considered. 
Study V59_77 was previously assessed by CHMP in procedure P46/039 (AR included as Appendix). 
In most of the case reports of ‘lymphadenopathy’, including those published in literature (35 out of 48), 
lymphadenopathy events occurred in close temporal association with the vaccine administration. The 
causality between product administration and the occurrence of lymphadenopathy is considered very likely 
due to these plausible time to onset (TTO).  
Section 4.8 of the SmPC has been amended to in order to include ‘lymphadenopathy’, and section 4 of the 
Package Leaflet was updated accordingly. 
The proposed frequency categorisation as ‘rare’ is acceptable, as the reported frequency in clinical trials was 
<1%.  
The benefit-risk balance of Menveo remains positive. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 3/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.3.b  
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL intended 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
to implement the outcome of a procedure concerning 
and IIIB 
PSUR or PASS or the outcome of the assessment done 
under A 45/46 - Change(s) with new additional data 
submitted by the MAH 
Update of section 4.8 of the SmPC in order to include lymphadenopathy as a new expected adverse reaction 
after vaccination in Post-marketing experience based on final results from study V59_77 and substantiated 
by supportive clinical data (mainly to establish frequency), following CHMP assessment of procedure 
P46/039. 
Section 4 of the Package Leaflet is updated accordingly. In addition, the Marketing authorisation holder 
(MAH) took the opportunity to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template version 10.1. 
is recommended for approval. 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above. 
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘Menveo-H/C/001095-II-93’ 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 4/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 5/36 
  
  
 
 
 
5.  Introduction 
Menveo has a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union since 15 March 2010. It is 
indicated for active immunization of children (from 2 years of age), adolescents and adults at risk of 
exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W-135 and Y, to prevent invasive disease.  
With this application, the MAH proposed an update of section 4.8 of the SmPC in order to include 
‘lymphadenopathy’ as a post-marketing experience adverse drug reaction after vaccination, based on final 
results from study V59_77 and substantiated by supportive clinical data only to establish frequency, 
following CHMP assessment of procedure P46/039 (AR included as Appendix). 
6.  Clinical Safety aspects 
6.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Following assessment of Menveo study V59_77 Clinical Study Report (CSR) to the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA), submitted in the framework of Article 46 of the EU paediatric regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, 
the final CHMP assessment report (EMA/H/C/01095/P46), requested the MAH to add lymphadenopathy in 
section 4.8 of the summary of product characteristics (SmPC). 
Study V59_77 was a phase 3b, controlled, open-label, multi-center clinical trial conducted to evaluate safety 
and immunogenicity of Menveo after a single vaccination in healthy individuals, 15 through 55 years of age, 
who were vaccinated with Menveo or Menactra 4 to 6 years before and in vaccine-naive individuals. In this 
study, a single case of an ipsilateral lymphadenopathy (swollen lymph node under left arm after vaccination 
in left deltoid) 3 days after receiving Menveo was reported for one subject aged 16 years, among the 701 
exposed to Menveo during the study. The event was medically attended and identified by the investigator as 
possibly related with vaccination. This case report triggered a CHMP request for SmPC modification to 
include lymphadenopathy as an adverse reaction following Menveo administration. 
The current safety signal analysis of lymphadenopathy has been made on cases reported in clinical trials, in 
the GSK worldwide safety database, in the Eudravigilance database and in the literature. During the signal 
evaluation, cases of lymphadenopathy possibly related to Menveo administration were reported from the 
safety database, Eudravigilance search and literature sources. 
6.2.  Results 
Clinical trial database 
Among the 127 events reported after Menveo administration, 36 of the 127 events occurred within 7 days 
from the vaccination. Among the events where both site of vaccination and site of adverse event were 
mentioned, 14 reports of the event occurred homolaterally to the site of vaccination with Menveo, of which 
12 were reporting the PT ‘Lymphadenopathy’, and 2 the PT ‘Lymph node pain’. Eleven of these 14 events 
were assessed as possibly related to Menveo by the investigator. Lymphadenopathy was reported in less 
than 1% of subjects exposed to at least one dose of Menveo. 
Spontaneous reports (MAH’s safety database) 
A total of 89 cases were retrieved following a search in the MAH’s safety database until 10 April 2019, using 
the following MedDRA preferred terms (PTs): Lymphadenopathy, Injection site lymphadenopathy, 
Lymphadenitis, Vaccination site lymphadenopathy, Lymph node pain, Administration site lymphadenopathy, 
Lymphoid hyperplasia, Lymphatic gland hypertrophy, Lymph node swelling. 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 6/36 
  
  
 
Of the retrieved 89 cases in the dataset, 27 cases were excluded due to insufficient information present for 
assessment and 14 cases were excluded because these cases reported with other more likely causes of the 
adverse event (e.g. concurrent medical conditions or other treatments). The remaining 48 cases where the 
potential association of lymphadenopathy with Menveo could not be excluded were further reviewed.  
Characteristics of the 48 cases: 
The lymphadenopathy events occurred in close temporal association with vaccine administration: 35 cases 
out of 48 had onset within 24 hours from the vaccination (reported as on the same day of the vaccination or 
within one day from vaccination). 
In 25 of these cases, the lymphadenopathy events were reported to be occurring homolaterally to the site of 
vaccination with Menveo. In the remaining cases, the information on the injection site or on the site in which 
the event occurred was not reported. 
The reported lymphadenopathy events were generally mild to moderate in intensity and were self-limiting. 
Of the 9 serious cases, 3 cases were reported as requiring intervention. 1 case was reported as medically 
significant, 1 case as hospitalized and 1 case as disabled without any further details on the disability of the 
patient; 3 cases were reported as serious by the reporter without providing the reason. 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 7/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no trends or patterns observed in analysis including subject age or gender or number of doses of 
Menveo administered. There were no reports of Menveo re-administration, or of recurrence of 
lymphadenopathy following another dose of Menveo in the same subject. 
Among the 48 cases the outcome was recovered or recovering in 32/48 cases, unknown in 9/48 cases, and 
not recovered in 7/48 cases at the time of the report. 
Eudravigilance (EV) database / Eudravigilance Data Analysis System (EVDAS) 
The EVDAS electronic reaction monitoring report (eRMR) for meningococcal group A, C, W135 and Y 
conjugate vaccine with DLP 27 March 2019 using the similar PTs retrieved 96 cases. Of the 96 cases 
retrieved from the line listing requested from EVDAS, 11 cases, reported for Menveo or for an unspecified 
quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine, were inserted into the MAH’s Safety database and were considered as 
new cases. These cases have been included in the evaluation described in section - Spontaneous reports 
(MAH’s safety database) - above. 
Literature 
One article reported the occurrence of lymphadenopathy, or lymphadenitis after the administration of 
Menveo. Holmes et al. described a case report of a 17 years old female patient who was diagnosed with 
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus with palpable right posterior cervical chain lymphadenopathy at the physical 
examination, occurred at her admission to the emergency room (15 days after vaccine administration). A 
causal association with the vaccine could not be determined due to insufficient information. 
In addition, a different article [Mayeta et al] presented the outcome of a surveillance study of vaccine 
adverse events reported from 2011 to 2012 in the French armed forces with Menveo being one of the 
vaccines administered. Among local reactions reported after Menveo administration, 5 cases with 
lymphadenopathy (1 case) or lymphadenitis (4 cases) with TTO between 1 and 4 days after vaccination with 
Menveo alone (3 cases) or in co-administration with other vaccines (2 cases) were reported to the MAH (data 
not reported in the article). All the cases received from the literature search have been included in the 
evaluation described in section - Spontaneous reports (MAH’s safety database) - above. 
6.3.  MAH’s discussion 
Whether a possibility exists for a causal association between lymphadenopathy and administration of 
Menveo vaccination was analysed according to the WHO assessment causality, as follows: 
• 
Temporality: From both the clinical trial and the safety databases, some events reported to occur with 
close temporal association with vaccination were retrieved. 
•  Biological Plausibility: The occurrence of lymph node enlargement as an immune-mediated process after 
vaccination is biologically plausible and is well explained in the literature. 
•  Strength of association: Regardless of TTO, age categories or ethnicities, the data across the clinical 
trials after a pooled analysis had shown similar frequencies of occurrence of Lymphadenopathy (<1%) 
in Menveo and placebo group with a relative risk (Menveo versus placebo) of 1.84 (95% CI; 0.49-6.93). 
•  Specificity: Lymphadenopathy is not linked specifically and uniquely with Menveo. The patho-physiology 
of a lymph node enlargement and lymphocyte activation due to an immune mediated antigen-antibody 
response is well understood, however the same can be caused by other aetiologies such as systemic 
infection (which may be viral, bacterial, fungal, or protozoan), autoimmune diseases, storage diseases, 
drug reactions, histiocytic disorders, and disseminated neoplastic diseases. 
•  Consistency: In clinical trials, lymphadenopathy was shown to be reported with a low frequency in all 
groups following the administration with Menveo or placebo (<1%). Similar data were obtained from the 
spontaneous reporting were, considering the vast number of doses distributed for Menveo (i.e., more 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 8/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
than 49 million doses since January 2011), 48 cases represent a reporting rate of 0.1 cases per 100,000 
doses distributed. 
‘Local lymphadenopathy’ was proposed by the MAH for addition to the Post Marketing sections of the PI, 
considering that: 
• 
spontaneous reports of cases with at least possible causal association with Menveo vaccination which are 
progressively accumulating as more doses are being administered and with the occurrence of 
lymphadenopathy being a biologically plausible adverse reaction after vaccination. 
• 
The clinical trial database analysis is considered inconclusive. 
Assessment comment 
Following the CHMP assessment of the results of the clinical study V59_77 (EMA/H/C/01095/P46), the MAH 
was requested to include ‘lymphadenopathy’ in section 4.8 of the SmPC. In this variation application a 
review of lymphadenopathy in the MAH’s clinical trial database (including the case report from clinical study 
V59_77 reporting ‘lymphadenopathy’), MAH’s safety database, Eudravigilance database and literature was 
submitted. In most of the case reports ‘lymphadenopathy’ including those published in literature (35 out of 
48), lymphadenopathy events occurred in close temporal association with the vaccine administration. The 
causality between product administration and the occurrence of lymphadenopathy is very likely due to these 
plausible TTOs.  
Slightly deviating from the CHMP recommendation, the MAH proposed to include ‘local lymphadenopathy’ as 
adverse event in section 4.8 of the SmPC instead of ‘lymphadenopathy’ as requested by the CHMP. Of the 48 
cases presented with the current variation, there were no reports of ‘local lymphadenopathy’; all were 
reporting ‘lymphadenopathy’. Besides, the term ‘lymphadenopathy’ is conforming to the Medical Dictionary 
for Diagnosis Registration and Analysis (MedDRA) a preferred term (PT) where the term ‘local 
lymphadenopathy’ is not. Furthermore, in another SmPC of a meningococcal vaccine (Menjugate) 
‘lymphadenopathy’ is listed. Therefore, the MAH’s proposal to include ‘local lymphadenopathy’ instead of 
‘lymphadenopathy’ was not acceptable.  
The MAH therefore agreed to include the initially requested by CHMP term ‘lymphadenopathy’ in section 4.8 
of the SmPC with the frequency ‘rare’, as the reported frequency in clinical trials was <1%. Section 4 of the 
Package Leaflet was also updated accordingly (see attachment 1) 
7.  PRAC advice 
N/A 
8.  Changes to the Product Information 
Slightly deviating from the CHMP recommendation, the MAH initially proposed to include ‘local 
lymphadenopathy’ as adverse event in section 4.8 of the SmPC instead of ‘lymphadenopathy’ as requested 
by the CHMP. For the reasons detailed in Section 6 of this Report, this initial MAH’s proposal was not 
acceptable.  
The MAH therefore agreed to include the term recommended by CHMP (‘lymphadenopathy’) in section 4.8 of 
the SmPC, with the frequency ‘rare’, as the reported frequency in clinical trials was <1%. A SmPC amended 
accordingly was provided, together with correspondingly amended Package Leaflet (Section 4, see 
attachment 1). 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 9/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) took the opportunity to bring the PI in line with the 
latest QRD template version 10.1 
Please refer to Attachment 1 which includes all agreed changes to the Product Information. 
9.  Appendix 1 
CHMP Assessment Report for Menveo P46 039 (EMEA/H/C/001095/P46/039), dated 28 February 2019 
Type II variation assessment report  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 10/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 February 2019 
EMA/71871/2020  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Menveo  
meningococcal group a, c, w135 and y conjugate vaccine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/001095/P46/039 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 8 August 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Menveo, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Menveo is indicated for active immunization of children (from 2 years of age), adolescents and adults at risk 
of exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y, to prevent invasive disease. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Menveo  should be  administered  as  a  single dose  (0.5  ml).  To  ensure optimal antibody  levels  against  all 
vaccine serogroups, the primary vaccination schedule with Menveo should be completed one month prior to 
risk of exposure to Neisseria meningitides groups A, C, W135 and Y. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that “A Phase 3b, Controlled, Open-Label, Multi-Center Study to Evaluate Safety and 
Immunogenicity of a Single Dose of GlaxoSmithKline’s Meningococcal ACWY Conjugate Vaccine (Menveo), 
Administered to Healthy Individuals 15 through 55 years of age, approximately 4-6 years after primary 
ACWY vaccination.”  is a stand alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The study vaccine specific to this study was the MenACWY-CRM vaccine (Menveo, GSK Biologicals). There is 
no specific paediatric formulation. The meningococcal ACWY conjugate vaccine was to be reconstituted just 
before injection of the lyophilized MenA-CRM component with the MenCWY-CRM full liquid vaccine. The 
pharmaceutical form was a powder and solution for injection. Menveo was provided as vial/vial presentation. 
MenA lyophilised conjugate component (glass vial) and MenCWY liquid conjugate component (glass vial). 
One 0.5 mL single dose of Menveo was to be administered by intramuscular injection in the deltoid area of 
non-dominant arm (preferably) in Menveo-Menveo, Menactra-Menveo treatment groups and to treatment 
Naive group on day 1.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
Clinical study V59_77: “A Phase 3b, Controlled, Open-Label, Multi-Center Study to Evaluate Safety and 
Immunogenicity of a Single Dose of GlaxoSmithKline’s Meningococcal ACWY Conjugate Vaccine (Menveo), 
Administered to Healthy Individuals 15 through 55 years of age, approximately 4-6 years after primary 
ACWY vaccination.” 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 12/36 
  
  
 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
Primary objectives: 
• To demonstrate a sufficient immune response following a booster dose of MenACWY-CRM (Menveo) 
vaccine, given to subjects who previously received Menveo, as measured by the percentage of subjects with 
human serum bactericidal assay (hSBA) seroresponse against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y at 
day 29 after vaccination. 
• To demonstrate a sufficient immune response following a booster dose of MenACWY-CRM (Menveo) 
vaccine, given to subjects who previously received Menactra, as measured by the percentage of subjects 
with hSBA seroresponse against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y at day 29 after vaccination  
Assessor’s comments 
A sufficient immune response was defined as the hSBA seroresponse >75%; please see section on 
endpoints. 
Secondary objectives aimed at comparing the immune response to the booster dose between subjects who 
previously received Menveo, subjects who previously received Menactra, and subjects who previously 
received Menveo or Menactra (pooled vaccine group) and following a single dose in vaccine-naive 
individuals, as measured by the percentages of subjects with hSBA seroresponse, hSBA ≥ 8 and ≥ 16, and 
hSBA GMTs against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y at day 1, day 4, day 6, and day 29 after 
vaccination, and to assess the persistence of bactericidal antibodies approximately 4 to 6 years after primary 
vaccination with Menveo and Menactra, as compared to naturally acquired levels (vaccine naïve individuals) 
as measured as the % with hSBA ≥1:8 at day 1. 
In addition the reactogenicity and safety of MenACWY-CRM vaccine when administered to subjects who 
previously received Menveo or Menactra (vaccine-primed) and vaccine-Naïve individuals was assessed. 
Study design 
This was a phase 3b, controlled, open-label, multi-center study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of 
Menveo after a single vaccination in healthy individuals who were vaccinated with Menveo or Menactra 4 to 
6 years before and in vaccine- Naïve individuals. 
Study population /Sample size 
Approximately 700 healthy subjects 15 through 55 years of age were to be enrolled in the study. The sample 
size was based on data from study V59P13E1 which was used to estimate the statistical power. Overall 
statistical power to show sufficiency of immune response to a booster dose of Menveo for each serotype in 
both the Menveo-Menveo and the Menactra-Menveo group was to be at least 92%. 
In order to participate in this study, all individuals had to meet all of the following criteria at study entry: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 13/36 
  
  
1. Individuals (male/female) of 15 through 55 years of age on the day of informed consent or assent. 
2. Individuals who received Menveo 4 to 6 years prior to enrollment at an age of 11 years or older 
(Menveo-Menveo group) 
Or 
Individuals who received Menactra 4 to 6 years prior to enrollment at an age of 11 years or older 
(Menactra-Menveo group) 
Or 
Individuals who had not received any previous meningococcal vaccine (Naive group). 
3. Individuals who gave written informed consent and who were able to comply with study procedures 
including follow-up 
4. Males or females of non-childbearing potential or using an effective birth control method until at least 30 
days after study vaccination. 
Exclusion criteria common for vaccine studies were applied here (e.g. current or previous, confirmed or 
suspected disease caused by N meningitidis, meningococcal vaccination other than the investigational 
vaccine, progressive unstable or uncontrolled clinical conditions, hypersensitivity to any component of the 
vaccines, abnormal function of the immune system, recent treatment with systemic antibiotics, 
immunoglobulins or blood products, recent or planned vaccination with a vaccine other than the 
investigational vaccine, fever or any other clinical condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, might 
pose additional risk to the subject due to participation in the study, etc). 
Assessor’s comments 
The inclusion of a naïve control group is appropriate as it is relevant to evaluate the persistence, as natural 
boosting can be expected for certain serogroups, and similarly important to evaluate the booster response. 
Treatments 
All subjects were to receive a single dose of Menveo at day 1. 
Study groups: 
• Group Menveo-Menveo: approximately 300 subjects, who were vaccinated with a single dose of Menveo 4 
to 6 years before, were to receive 1 dose of Menveo. 
• Group Menactra-Menveo: approximately 300 subjects, who were vaccinated with a single dose of Menactra 
4 to 6 years before, were to receive 1 dose of Menveo. 
• Group Naive: approximately 100 subjects, of similar age to subjects enrolled in other primed groups, with 
enrollment distributed across all clinical sites, who had not received any meningococcal vaccination, were to 
receive 1 dose of Menveo. 
Randomization / Stratification: 
Within each study group, subjects were to be randomized into one of two different blood draw schedules 
according to a 1:1 ratio, in which subjects were assigned to get blood draws at day 1, day 4 and day 29 or 
at day 1, day 6 and day 29, respectively. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 14/36 
  
  
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint: 
• Percentage of subjects with hSBA seroresponse against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y at day 29 
for Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups. 
Seroresponse was defined for this study as follows: For subjects with pre-vaccination titers <4, 
postvaccination titers ≥ 16; for subjects with pre-vaccination titers ≥4, post vaccination titers at least 4 times 
the pre-vaccination titers. 
Secondary Endpoints: 
Immunogenicity endpoints: 
The following measures were summarized for Menveo-Menveo, Menactra-Menveo, Naive and the pooled 
(Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo) groups: 
•  Percentage of subjects with hSBA titer ≥ 8 and ≥ 16 against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and 
Y at day 1, day 4, day 6 and day 29 and between-group differences; 
•  Percentages of subjects with hSBA seroresponse against N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y at 
day 4, day 6 and day 29 and between-group differences; 
•  hSBA GMTs against N meningitidis serogroup A, C, W and Y at day 1, day 4, day 6 and day 29; 
•  Ratios of hSBA GMTs at day 1, day 4, day 6 and day 29 (between study groups); 
•  hSBA Geometric Mean Ratios (GMRs) at day 4, day 6, and day 29 compared to day 1 (within study 
groups). 
Safety endpoints: 
Safety of the study vaccine was assessed in the Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups and the 
pooled vaccine groups (Menveo-Menveo and Menactra - Menveo) and the vaccine-naive group in terms of 
the frequencies (percentages) of reported AEs including:  
1.  Any unsolicited AEs reported within 30 minutes after vaccination; 
2.  Solicited local and systemic AEs reported from day 1 (6 hours) through day 7 after vaccination; 
3.  Other indicators of reactogenicity (eg, use of analgesics / antipyretics, body temperature) within 7 
days after vaccination; 
4.  All unsolicited AEs reported from day 1 through day 29 after vaccination; 
5.  Medically-attended AEs, AEs leading to withdrawal and SAEs reported from day 1 through day 181 
(during the entire study period). 
Statistical Methods 
Primary Immunogenicity Objective 
The primary population for the analysis of sufficient immune response was the per protocol set (PPS), and 
consisted of the Menveo-Menveo group (n=270 evaluable subjects) and Menactra-Menveo group (n=270 
evaluable subjects). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 15/36 
  
  
For each individual vaccine group (Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo) and each A, C, W, and Y 
serogroup, the percentage of subjects with seroresponse were computed, along with associated two-sided 
95% Clopper-Pearson CIs. 
To demonstrate immune response sufficiency after Menveo booster vaccine administration, the lower limit of 
the one-sided 97.5% CI for the percentage of subjects with hSBA seroresponse against each of serogroups 
A, C, W and Y had to be greater than 75%. This was to be tested sequentially first in the group of subjects 
who received primary vaccination with Menveo and, if met, also in the group of subjects who received 
primary vaccination with Menactra. 
Secondary Immunogenicity Objectives 
The primary population for the analysis of the secondary immunogenicity objectives was the PPS. 
Seroresponse (day 4, day 6 and day 29) and Percentage of subjects with hSBA titer≥ 8 and ≥ 16 (day 1, day 
4, day 6, and day 29): 
The percentage of subjects with seroresponse, the percentage of subjects with hSBA titer ≥ 8 and ≥ 
16, and their associated two-sided 95% Clopper-Pearson CIs were computed by group 
(Menveo-Menveo, Menactra-Menveo, Naive, and pooled Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo) 
and by N meningitidis serogroup. Differences in percentages and associated 95% CIs between study 
groups were calculated using the Miettinen & Nurminen score method. 
In a descriptive fashion - using the difference in percentages and 95% CIs - each of the previously 
vaccinated groups (individually and pooled) was compared to the Naive group. Also the two 
previously vaccinated study groups were compared to each other.  
Between-group ratios of GMTs (adjusted and unadjusted): 
The between-group ratio of hSBA GMTs and corresponding 95% CI, at each of visit day 1 
(persistence), day 4, day 6 and day 29 against each N meningitidis serogroup were obtained by 
exponentiating the mean between-group differences in log-transformed titers and the 
corresponding 95% CIs at each of the timepoints specified.  
Additionally, adjusted ratios of GMTs were obtained from Analysis of Covariance models including 
pre-vaccination titer as factor in the model. The previously vaccinated groups (individually and 
pooled Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo) were compared to the Naive group at each 
timepoint – descriptively – using the ratios of GMTs.  
The two previously vaccinated groups were also compared to each other at each time point using 
GMT ratios. 
Within-group GMRs (adjusted and unadjusted): 
Within each study group and for each serogroup, GMRs were calculated, as applicable, at: 
• Visit day 4 versus at Visit day 1; 
• Visit day 6 versus at Visit day 1; and 
• Visit day 29 versus at Visit day 1. 
The unadjusted GMRs and 95% CIs were constructed by exponentiating the mean within-group 
differences in log-transformed titers and the corresponding 95% CIs. 
Secondary Safety Objectives 
Solicited AEs: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 16/36 
  
  
The analyses of post-vaccination solicited AEs reported from day 1 to day 7 were performed based on 3 
intervals: 6 hours-day 3, day 4-day 7 and 6 hours-day 7. The analyses of solicited AEs were done separately 
for 30 minutes.  
Unsolicited AEs: 
All the unsolicited AEs occurring during the study, judged either as probably related, possibly related, or not 
related to vaccination by the investigator, were recorded. The original verbatim terms used by investigators 
to identify AEs in the case report forms were mapped to preferred terms (PTs) using the Medical Dictionary 
for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary. The unsolicited AEs were then grouped by MedDRA preferred 
terms into frequency tables according to system organ class (SOC). AEs judged by the investigator as at 
least possibly related to study vaccine were summarized by vaccine group, according to SOC and preferred 
term within SOC. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
The first subject was enrolled on 08-12-2016; the last subject completed on 07-12-2017. A total of 704 
subjects (301 in the Menveo-Menveo group, 301 in the Menactra-Menveo group and 102 in the Naive group) 
who provided informed consent were enrolled in the study. One subject in the Menactra-Menveo group and 
2 subjects in the Naive group did not receive study vaccination because they could not be randomized. All 
other subjects received study vaccination. In total, 18 subjects withdrew from the study prematurely after 
they received study vaccination: 16 (2%) were lost to follow-up and 2 (< 1%) withdrew consent. 
The subject disposition flowchart (page 67 Clinical Study Report): 
A total of 37 (5%) subjects had protocol deviations: 10 (3%) in the Menveo-Menveo group, 19 (6%) in the 
Menactra-Menveo group, and 8 (8%) in the Naive group. The most common reason for deviating from the 
protocol was “subject did not comply with blood draw schedule”, reported by a total of 13 (2%) subjects.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 17/36 
  
  
 
Immunogenecity analysis were performed on the per protocol set (PPS) and on the full analysis set (FAS). 
Overview of population analysed (see page 82 of the Clinical Study Report): 
Baseline characteristics (page 83 Clinical Study Report): 
Demographic and baseline characteristics were generally balanced between both primed groups 
(Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo). The mean age of subjects enrolled in the study was 17.1±3.66 
years in the Menveo-Menveo group and 17.8±4.53 years in the Menactra-Menveo group. The Naive group 
enrolled mostly adults (mean age: 38.8±10.49), and more female (67%) than male (33%) subjects. The 
age difference between the subjects in the primed groups and those in the Naive group is in line with 
expected enrolment, given the ACIP recommendation for a universal vaccination with a quadrivalent 
conjugated meningococcal vaccine at 11-12 years of age. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 18/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comment 
Based on the inclusion criteria, the age difference between the primed subjects and the vaccine naïve 
subjects is understandable. However, this difference will hamper a fair comparison between primed and 
naïve subjects because of possible differences in natural exposure and vaccine response could be 
attributable to age.  
Efficacy results 
Primary efficacy outcome 
1. At day 29 after the Menveo booster dose the percentage of subjects with hSBA seroresponse for 
serogroups A, C, W, and Y ranged from 95.49% to 96.86% across serogroups in the Menveo-Menveo group. 
The lower limits of the 1-sided 97.5% CI for the percentages of subjects in the Menveo-Menveo group with 
hSBA seroresponse were greater than 75% for all serogroups. This demonstrates a sufficient immune 
response following a booster dose of Menveo vaccine, given to subjects who previously received Menveo. 
2. At day 29 after the Menveo booster dose the percentage of subjects with hSBA seroresponse for 
serogroups A, C, W, and Y ranged from 93.24% to 96.45% across serogroups in the Menactra-Menveo 
group. The lower limits of the 1-sided 97.5% CI for the percentages of subjects in the Menactra-Menveo 
group with hSBA seroresponse were greater than 75% for all serogroups. This demonstrates a sufficient 
immune response following a booster dose of Menveo vaccine, given to subjects who previously received 
Menactra. 
Thus for both primary immunogenicity objectives, the criterion to demonstrate a sufficient immune response 
following a booster dose of Menveo was met. Primary efficacy outcome (see page 85 of the Clinical Study 
Report): 
Secondary efficacy outcomes 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA seroresponse at day 4, day 6, and day 29 
A booster dose of Menveo induced an anamnestic immune response in subjects who previously received 
either Menveo or Menactra, as shown by the higher percentages of subjects with hSBA seroresponse against 
N meningitidis serogroups A, C, W, and Y in the Menveo-Menveo, Menactra-Menveo, and pooled 
Menveo/Menactra-Menveo groups compared to subjects who received a first dose of Menveo (Naive group) 
observed from day 6 (see table below, Clinical Study Report page 87). By day 29, across serogroups 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 19/36 
  
  
 
93.24%-96.86% of subjects in the Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups had hSBA seroresponse, 
compared to 35.87%-65.59% of subjects in the Naive group. 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8 (and ≥ 16) at Day1, day 4, day 6, and day 29 
The anamnestic immune response to a booster dose of Menveo in subjects who previously received either 
Menveo or Menactra was also shown by the higher percentages of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8 and ≥ 16 
against N meningitides serogroups A, C, W, and Y in the Menveo-Menveo, Menactra-Menveo, and pooled 
Menveo/Menactra-Menveo groups compared to the Naive group observed from day 4, with non-overlapping 
95% CIs between primed and Naive groups observed starting from day 6. By day 29, at least 98.62% of 
subjects in the primed groups had hSBA titers ≥ 8 against any serogroup (100% against serogroup W in both 
primed groups), and at least 97.52% had hSBA titers ≥ 16 against any serogroup. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 20/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8 (see page 89 of the Clinical Study Report): 
hSBA GMTs at day 1, day 4, day 6, and day 29 
In subjects who previously received either Menveo or Menactra, also hSBA GMTs against N meningitidis 
serogroups A, C, W, and Y were higher compared to subjects who received a first dose of Menveo (Naive 
group) from day 6. By day 29, hSBA GMTs against all serogroups had further increased in all study groups, 
with GMRs compared to day 1 ranging between 63.63-123.41 across serogroups in the Menveo-Menveo and 
Menactra-Menveo groups, and between 4.57-14.14 across serogroups in the Naive group. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 21/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA GMTs (see page 94 of the Clinical Study Report): 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8 at day 1 (persistence) 
Percentages of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8 at day 1 were 12.46% and 15.46% against serogroup A in 
Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups, and were higher than in the Naive group, with a vaccine 
group difference between the Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups vs. the Naive group of 8.29% 
(95% CI: 1.55%-13.44%) and 11.30% (95% CI: 4.40%-16.78%), respectively. For the other serogroups 
percentages ranged from 53.63% to 61.82% for serogroup C, from 76.09% to 76.63% for serogroup W, and 
from 47.24% to 53.90% for serogroup Y, across subjects primed 4 to 6 years before, percentages that were 
higher in the Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo groups than those seen in the Naive group, with 
vaccine group differences between Menveo-Menveo and Menactra-Menveo group vs. the Naive group 
ranging between 14.64%-26.41% across serogroups (LLs of the 95% CIs all > 0). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 22/36 
  
  
 
 
 
Assessor’s comment 
The seroresponses for the different serogroups and study groups, started to increase between day 4 to 6 
after vaccination, with highest seroresponses measured at day 29 (last blood draw). This trend was 
observed across the different immunogenicity analyses (hSBA, GMT’s, GMR’s and the reverse cumulative 
distribution curves of hSBA titers). Higher responses were observed in subjects that had been primed with 
Menactra or Menveo, compared to vaccine-naïve subjects, indicating that there is an anamnestic response.  
Relatively many vaccine naïve subjects had hSBA titers ≥8 before vaccination, which is in line with previous 
studies and is considered an indication that these individuals previously experienced natural boosting. After 
vaccination however a true booster response could not be observed. For example 61.29% of naïve subjects 
had pre-vaccination hSBA titers for serogroup W ≥8, compared to 75.43%, 76.95% and 76.18% of Menveo, 
Menactra and pooled Menveo/Menactra subjects. At day 29, 84.78% of the vaccine naïve subjects had hSBA 
titers for serogroup W ≥8, compared to 100% of the vaccine primed subjects. For serogroup W, the day 29 
GMT for the vaccine naïve subjects only reached 55.31, while GMT’s for vaccine primed subjects ranged from 
1394.65 to 1883.96. This raises the question whether these subjects were true seropositives, i.e. actually 
had protective levels of bactericidal antibodies, or whether there is an inflation of some sort in the assay.  
The MAH should present the immune response (hSBA and GMT) in vaccine naïve subjects stratified by 
baseline seropostivity and critically discuss their findings. 
Furthermore, hSBA GMT’s for serogroups A and Y obtained from the Menveo primed subjects at day 29 are 
210.10 and 1066.66 respectively (see hSBA GMT table presented above). These GMT’s are significantly 
lower than the GMT’s presented in table 8 of the valid SmPC (819 and 2092 respectively, 28 days after a 
booster dose of Menveo and 5 years after first Menveo vaccination). Although hSBA titers ≥8 are measured 
in 98-100% of subjects in the current study, the Applicant should discuss the observed differences in the 
GMT responses.  
hSBA GMTs at Day1 (persistence) 
At baseline (day 1), hSBA GMTs ranged between 2.80 (against serogroup A in the Menveo-Menveo group) 
and 23.33 (against serogroup W in the Menactra-Menveo group) in the primed groups, and were higher than 
those observed at day 1 in the Naive group (ranging from 2.26 against serogroup A to 12.33 against 
serogroup W). 
Assessor’s comment 
The data on persistence of the immune response show some differences between study V59_77 and the data 
in the valid SmPC. Table 8 (section 5.1 of the SmPC) presents the results obtained from study V59P6E1 in 49 
subjects. In this study, 29% of subjects had hSBA titers ≥8 before the booster dose and 5 years after 
vaccination (corresponding GMT 5.16). The current study presents the results obtained from 290 Menveo 
primed subjects of whom 12.46% had hSBA titers ≥8 (serogroup A), before the booster dose and 4-6 years 
after vaccination with Menveo (corresponding GMT 2.81). The same applies to the persistence of hSBA titers 
for serogroup Y. Whereas the valid SmPC table 8 describes hSBA titers ≥8 in 78% of subjects (corresponding 
GMT 28), the current study describes hSBA titers ≥8 in 54% of subjects (corresponding GMT 9.24). These 
observations imply that persistence for serogroups A and Y is less than previously reported and they do have 
implications for sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC.    
Statistical/analytical issues 
•  As primary analyses, vaccine-group effects were not adjusted. As secondary analyses, 
vaccine-group effects were adjusted for the log-transformed pre-vaccination antibody titer. The 
group titers of Naive subjects were always summarized without any adjustment (ie unadjusted 
GMTs and percentages).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 23/36 
  
  
•  Missing immunogenicity values were considered not informative. No imputation methods were used 
to address missing immunogenicity or safety data. 
• 
• 
There were no planned interim analyses for this study. No DMC was used for this study. 
The two hypotheses associated to the primary objective were tested in a hierarchical manner; 
therefore, no adjustment for multiplicity was needed. 
•  Using the PPS (day 29), the analysis of the hSBA seroresponse against N meningitides serogroups A, 
C, W, and Y was replicated by sex and race. There was no meaningful effect of these factors seen on 
the percentages of subjects with hSBA seroresponse against any of the serogroups. However, there 
were very few subjects enrolled in some of the race categories, making the assessment difficult. 
Safety results 
Solicited AEs and Other Indicators of Reactogenicity 
• Between 6 hours through day 7, at least 1 solicited AE was reported in 65% of primed subjects (pooled 
Menveo/Menactra-Menveo group) and 55% subjects in the Naïve group. Solicited local AEs were reported by 
36% of primed subjects and 42% of vaccine-naive subjects, and solicited systemic AEs by 52% of primed 
subjects and 36% of vaccine-naive subjects. 
• The most frequently reported solicited local AEs was injection site pain, both for primed subjects (36%) 
and vaccine-naive subjects (41%) and the most frequently reported systemic reactions was fatigue (38% of 
primed subjects and 20% of vaccine-naive subjects). 
• Most of the solicited AEs were mild to moderate in intensity, had their onset between 6 hours and day 3 
after vaccination and resolved within 3 days from onset. 
• Fever (body temperature ≥ 38.0°C) was reported in 7 (1%) primed subjects and by none of the subjects 
in the Naive group. All cases of fever resolved within 2 days after vaccination. Fever with a body temperature 
≥ 40.0°C was not reported by any subject in the study. 
• Both in the pooled Menveo/Menactra-Menveo and in the Naive group, 5% of subjects used antipyretics 
and/or analgesics for prevention of pain and/or fever; 7% and 10% of primed and vaccine-naive subjects, 
respectively, used antipyretics and/or analgesics for the treatment of pain and/or fever. 
Solicited local AE’s (page 109 Clinical Study Report): 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 24/36 
  
  
 
Solicited systemic AE’s (page 111 Clinical Study Report): 
Assessor’s comment 
Systemic solicited AE’s occurred relatively more often in the primed group. This is currently not 
acknowledged by the MAH. The MAH should discuss this trend and substantiate whether or not to mention it 
in the SmPC. 
Furthermore, fatigue was reported very often as a solicited AE in the current study. Fatigue should be added 
to the frequency table in section 4.8.  
Also, arthralgia was reported very often as a solicited AE in the current study. Based on this finding, the MAH 
should re-evaluate the frequency of arthralgia amongst the total number of subjects exposed to Menveo. 
Unsolicited AEs 
• Overall, 9 subjects (8 primed subjects [pooled Menveo/Menactra-Menveo group] and 1 in the Naive group) 
reported at least 1 unsolicited AE within 30 minutes after vaccination. 
• Overall, 25% of primed subjects and 22% of subjects in the Naive group reported any unsolicited AE 
between day 1 and day 29 after vaccination. The most frequently reported unsolicited AE between day 1 and 
day 29 after vaccination, by preferred term, was headache (reported in 3% of primed and vaccine-naive 
subjects).  
• Overall, 8% of primed subjects and 11% of subjects in the Naive group reported at least 1 possibly related 
unsolicited AE between day 1 and day 29 after vaccination. The only at least possibly related AEs reported 
in more than 1% of subjects in either the pooled Menveo/Menactra-Menveo or the Naïve group were fatigue 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 25/36 
  
  
 
 
 
(reported in 2% of primed subjects), injection site erythema (4% in the Naive group), and injection site 
pruritus (2% in the Naive group). 
• Medically attended AEs were reported in 30% of primed subjects and 19% of vaccine-naive subjects, 
respectively. Overall, across primed and vaccine-naive subjects, 5 subjects reported medically attended AEs 
that were considered at least possibly related to the study vaccine by the investigator. 
• Few SAEs were reported during the study: 5 (1%) primed subjects and 3 (3%) vaccine-naive subjects 
reported at least 1 SAE; none of the SAEs reported in this study was considered at least possibly related to 
the study vaccine. 
• There were no AEs leading to premature withdrawal from the study or deaths reported in this study. 
Assessor’s comment 
No deaths occurred and no AEs occurred leading to withdrawal from the study. The 13 serious adverse 
events reported by 8 subjects, were judged not to be related to the study drug. These findings further 
support what is already known about the safety profile of Menveo.  
The MAH should discuss whether the possibly related medically attended AEs must be added to section 4.8 
of the SmPC. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The current study aimed to evaluate the safety and antibody response following a single booster dose of 
Menveo administered to healthy adolescents and adults, 15-55 years of age, given approximately 4-6 years 
after primary MenACWY vaccination (Menveo or Menactra) and to assess the safety and antibody response 
to a single dose of Menveo given to vaccine-naïve subjects (subjects who did not receive any meningococcal 
vaccination prior to participation to this trial). This is a relatively large study where persistence of the 
immune response to Menveo is measured in 589 individuals for up to 4-6 years and the effect of a booster 
response is measured in 572 individuals. The information currently contained in the SmPC regarding the 
persistence of immunity in adolescents and the response to a booster in this age group is based upon far 
more limited data, in approximately 50 individuals. 
The vaccine naïve group was significantly older than the vaccine primed groups (38.8±10.49 years vs. 
17.1±3.66 years Menveo-Menveo and 17.8±4.53 years Menactra-Menveo). This hampers any between 
group comparisons, as age can affect the immune response to vaccination and the background exposure to 
Neisseria meningitidis can be expected to increase with age. These observations will not have any impact on 
the current SmPC, the issue is not further pursued here. 
Booster response 
The study demonstrated that a single booster dose of Menveo induced an immune response for which the 
lower limit of the one-sided 97.5% CI for the percentage of subject with hSBA seroresponse at day 29 
against serogroups A, C, W, and Y was greater than 75%, irrespective of the meningococcal quadrivalent 
conjugated vaccine used for priming (Menveo or Menactra). The response to the booster dose was 
anamnestic, as evidenced by exponentially higher hSBA titers after a booster dose in primed subjects (GMRs 
at day 29 compared to day 1 ranging 63.63-123.41 across serogroups) compared with vaccine naïve 
individuals given a first dose of meningococcal vaccine (GMRs at day 29 compared to day 1 ranging 
4.57-14.14). Percentages of primed subjects with hSBA titre ≥ 8 ranged from 47.14%-97.86% already at 
study day 6.  
Questions were raised relating to relatively large proportion of vaccine naïve subjects who are seropositive 
at baseline to different serogroups, in particular serogroup W, however in whom no booster response was 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 26/36 
  
  
observed. The MAH clarified that the immune response and memory in naturally primed individuals will not 
be similar to the response in individuals primed with a conjugate vaccine, explaining the differences in 
response. 
Persistence 
Persistence of immune responses at 4-6 years after primary vaccination was measured by percentages of 
subjects with hSBA ≥ 8 and GMTs at day 1 (pre-vaccination). Percentages of subjects with hSBA ≥ 8 were 
12.46% (Menveo-Menveo) and 15.46% (Menactra-Menveo) for serogroup A, 61.82% and 53.63% for 
serogroup C, 76.09% and 76.63% for serogroup W, and 53.90% and 47.24% for serogroup Y. GMTs were 
higher in primed subjects compared to vaccine-naive controls, especially against serogroup C, W and Y.  
The results concerning persistence of seroresponse 4-6 years after primary vaccination are not entirely in 
line with the data that are presented in table 8 of the current SmPC. Although persistence in serogroup A is 
known to be poor, the current SmPC describes hSBA ≥ 8 in 29%, whereas only 12.46% of 290 subjects had 
hSBA ≥ 8 in the current study. Moreover, persistence data in serogroup Y are worrying as the data presented 
here describe hSBA ≥ 8 in 54% of subjects, while the SmPC currently describes 78%.  
Following a request for clarification, the MAH pointed out that the data from the present study represent the 
immune response 4-6 years after a single dose, in line with the dosing recommendations in the SmPC, with 
no insight in to the response to the primary vaccination course which limits the ability to determine the 
waning of antibodies. The comparison with the vaccine naïve group in study V59_77 also has its limitations, 
further limiting the ability to conclude on the waning of antibodies. Finally, a direct comparison to other 
studies with Menveo also comes with limitations due to differences in populations, natural circulation of 
meningococcal strains and potential assay variability. Therefore the data are insufficient to single out 
whether there is a real issue with waning protection against MenY. 
Safety 
Overall, the safety profile did not reveal any major safety concerns. A trend towards more systemic solicited 
AE’s in the primed group compared to the naïve group could be observed, which is likely due to the 
differences in age between the two groups. The frequencies of unsolicited AEs reported within 1 month after 
vaccination were balanced between all study groups, and few at least possibly related unsolicited AEs were 
reported across groups. All reported SAEs (13 in 8 subjects) were considered not related to study 
vaccination. No deaths or AEs leading to withdrawal from the study were reported. Few medically attended, 
possibly related AEs were observed. Lymphadenopathy is not yet listed in the SmPC and should be included 
in section 4.8. 
3.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following questions as part of this procedure: 
• 
Efficacy 
o  Many vaccine naïve subjects had hSBA ≥ 8 for one or more serogroups, which is not unexpected 
perse and in line with baseline immunity seen in different studies. However it appears that after 
vaccination these subjects did not experience a true booster response which is unexpected. The MAH 
is asked to discus this matter and to illustrate it by performing the hSBA and GMT immunogenicity 
analyses in the naïve group separated into a group with seropositive and a group with seronegative 
subjects. 
o  Some significant differences were observed between persistence data for serogroups A and Y, 
presented in the current study V59_77 (in 290 Menveo primed subjects) and persistence data 
presented in Table 8 of the current SmPC (based on study V59P6E1 in 49 Menveo primed subjects). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 27/36 
  
  
These observations imply that persistence in both serogroups A and Y is poor and they do have 
implications for sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
•  Safety 
o  Systemic solicited AE’s occurred relatively more often in the primed group. The Applicant is asked to 
discuss this trend and substantiate whether or not to mention it in the SmPC. 
o  Fatigue was reported very often by the current population and should be added to the frequency 
table in section 4.8.  
o  The SmPC currently describes that arthralgia occurs often. In the data presented here, arthralgia is 
described to occur very often. It is suggested to re-evaluate the frequency of arthralgia amongst the 
total number of subjects that have been exposed to Menveo. 
o  Regarding the medically attended, possibly related AEs, the MAH should discuss whether these 
should be added to section 4.8. 
o  Since the above changes to section 4.8 require a type II variation procedure, the MAH should 
consider to merge the separate frequency tables for children aged 2-10 years old and children and 
adults aged 11 years and older, in order to improve readability. 
The timetable is a 30 day response timetable with clock stop. 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
Efficacy 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Many vaccine naïve subjects had hSBA ≥ 8 for one or more serogroups, which is not unexpected per se and 
in line with baseline immunity seen in different studies. However, it appears that after vaccination these 
subjects did not experience a true booster response which is unexpected. The MAH is asked to discuss this 
matter and to illustrate it by performing the hSBA and GMT immunogenicity analyses in the naïve group 
separated into a group with seropositive and a group with seronegative subjects. 
Company Response: 
As requested by the Agency, immune responses by baseline serostatus in vaccine-naïve subjects from study 
V59_77 are presented in Table 1 (GMTs) and Table 2 (percentages of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8). Of note, 
the number of vaccine-naïve subjects seropositive at baseline (subjects with pre-vaccination hSBA titer ≥ 4) 
varied across the serogroups and was particularly low for N. meningitidis serogroup A (N=8; 8.60%), 
preventing drawing conclusions. Nevertheless, the data do show an increase in bactericidal titers against all 
4 serogroups in vaccine-naïve subjects seropositive at baseline after a single dose of Menveo. In 
vaccine-naïve subjects seropositive at baseline hSBA GMTs were higher at Day 29 than at Day 1, as shown 
by the geometric mean ratios (GMRs [Day 29/Day 1]) for N. meningitides serogroups A (12.48), C (10.00), 
W (2.60), and Y (4.50; Table 1). hSBA GMTs at Day 29 were higher against all serogroups in subjects 
seropositive when compared to those seronegative at baseline. The same was observed for the percentages 
of subjects with hSBA titers ≥ 8, which were higher at Day 29 when compared to Day 1 irrespectively of the 
baseline serostatus, and at Day 29 higher in subjects seropositive at baseline than those seronegative (Table 
2). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 28/36 
  
  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 29/36 
  
  
 
These immunogenicity results in vaccine-naive subjects seropositive at baseline cannot, however, be 
directly compared with immune responses seen after a booster dose in previously vaccinated subjects in 
study V59_77, as there are several unknown factors that may influence the magnitude and kinetics of the 
immune response in subjects seropositive at baseline, including: 
• 
Time since exposure  
•  Strength of exposure (duration, degree of contact) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 30/36 
  
  
 
•  Serogroup, strain or species (potentially non-invasive) of exposure 
•  Status of nasal colonization 
In addition, the immune response and memory in naturally primed individuals may not be similar to the 
response in individuals primed with a conjugate vaccine. Encapsulated bacteria such as N. meningitidis 
generally induce a T-cell independent response, primarily of the (low-affinity) immunoglobulin M isotype. 
The surface polysaccharide antigens do not require T-cells to elicit antibody production and, therefore, 
immunological memory is limited [Weintraub, 2003; Klouwenberg. 2008]. 
On the other hand, protein-conjugated polysaccharide vaccines such as Menveo induce a T-cell dependent 
immune response, which is characterized by longer immunological memory based on functional avidity 
maturation and production of higher-affinity antibodies (primarily IgG) by B-cells due to T-cell stimulation 
[Klouwenberg. 2008; Blanchard-Roehner, 2008; Ada, 2003]. 
Therefore, it can be expected that the immune response to a booster dose in subjects primed with a 
conjugate meningococcal vaccine that is designed to elicit specific, robust and long-lasting immune 
responses against multiple serogroups, may be higher and different than that seen after a first dose in 
subjects who may have been exposed to one or more strains of the pathogen. 
Assessor’s comment 
It is agreed with the MAH that the immune response and memory in naturally primed individuals may not be 
similar to the response in individuals primed with a conjugate vaccine. 
Conclusion 
Issue solved 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Some significant differences were observed between persistence data for serogroups A and Y, presented in 
the current study V59_77 (in 290 Menveo primed subjects) and persistence data presented in Table 8 of the 
current SmPC (based on study V59P6E1 in 49 Menveo primed subjects). These observations imply that 
persistence in both serogroups A and Y is poor and they do have implications for sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the 
SmPC. 
Company Response 
GSK acknowledges the observations made by the Agency that hSBA GMTs and percentages of subjects with 
hSBA titers ≥ 8 against N. meningitidis serogroups A and Y in study V59_77 appeared to be lower than those 
previously observed at a similar time point in study V59P6E1. However, these results do not automatically 
indicate lower persistence or waning of antibody titers. 
The results at Day 1 from study V59_77 represent a snapshot of the immune response to Menveo at 4-6 
years after a single vaccination. Since there was no assessment of antibody titers before and after the initial 
(priming) Menveo dose, which was administered according to field conditions, no conclusions regarding 
waning of antibody titers can be drawn for primed subjects in study V59_77. 
Nevertheless, the data from study V59_77 do suggest persistence of a specific immune response against 
serogroups A and Y up to 4-6 years after a single vaccination with Menveo, as shown by: 
•  Higher hSBA titers before (booster) vaccination in study V59_77 in primed subjects (serogroup A: 2.80, 
serogroup Y: 9.12) compared to vaccine-naïve controls (serogroup A: 2.26, serogroup Y: 4.44; V59_77 
Report Table 11.4.1-8). The same was observed when comparing the percentages of subjects with hSBA 
titers ≥ 8 against serogroups A (primed: 12.46%; vaccine-naïve controls: 4.17%) and Y (primed: 
53.90%; vaccine-naïve controls: 31.25%) before vaccination in study V59_77 (V59_77 Report Table 
11.4.1-7). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 31/36 
  
  
 
• 
The anamnestic response to a booster dose of Menveo: higher hSBA GMT increase in Menveo primed 
subjects compared to vaccine-naïve controls as early as 5 days after the day of vaccination in study 
V59_77 and several-fold higher hSBA GMTs in Menveo primed subjects at day 29 after the booster than 
in vaccine-naive controls after a first dose. 
Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that low persistence of antibody titers does not automatically correlate 
with lack of protection [Baxter, 2016]. The correlate of protection routinely used in Menveo clinical trials is 
a more conservative extrapolation from the original correlate of protection (hSBA titer ≥ 4) determined by 
Goldschneider et al. for serogroup C [Goldschneider, 1969a; Goldschneider, 1969b], and therefore hSBA 
titers lower than 1:8 do not necessarily indicate lack of protection.  
Moreover, in a large field trial assessing a serogroup A conjugate vaccine used in a mass vaccination 
campaign in several countries in Africa, persistence of hSBA titers was low at 1 year after vaccination, but 
protection against disease remained high as evidenced by very low incidence of invasive meningococcal 
disease cases due to serogroup A [Kristiansen, 2014; Daugla, 2014]. 
In conclusion, the Company believes that the results of the V59_77 study do not indicate low persistence of 
antibodies to N. meningitidis serogroups A and Y despite lower titers than seen in previous studies, as the 
lack of baseline assessment (at the time of priming) makes it impossible to assess waning or lack of waning 
of antibodies. Based on the above, GSK believes that the V59_77 clinical data do not lead to any new 
conclusion on persistence of the immune response and that sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC currently 
contain all the relevant information for prescribers. Thus, GSK believes that no revision of sections 4.4 and 
5.1 of the SmPC is needed. 
Assessor’s comment 
The response of the MAH is not entirely agreed. The data currently in the SmPC is more limited than the data 
from the present study, and paints a slightly different picture as in that persistence is worse for MenY as well 
as for MenA. The poor persistence for MenA is currently included in the warning in section 4.4, therefore we 
can agree that no changes are needed for MenA, however the poor persistence for MenY is not. The MAH 
argues that protection may be better than suggested by the hSBA cut off applied, this can be agreed that this 
is possible however how much better? Applying a cut-off of hSBA >1:4 would still indicate a potential issue.  
Furthermore, it has been established that circulating bactericidal Ab’s are needed for sustained protection 
against IMD – therefore we have to assume that absence of measurable antibodies indicates an absence of 
protection. Considering the severity of the disease, it is preferred to err on the side of caution. 
The MAH however also points out that the data represent the immune response 4-6 years after a single dose, 
in line with the dosing recommendations in the SmPC, with no insight in to the response to the primary 
vaccination course which limits the ability to determine the waning of antibodies. Further, it can be agreed 
that comparison with the vaccine naïve group in study V59_77 also has its limitations, further limiting the 
ability to conclude on the waning of antibodies. Finally, a direct comparison to other studies with Menveo 
also comes with limitations due to differences in populations, natural circulation of meningococcal strains 
and potential assay variability. Therefore the data are insufficient to single out whether there is a real issue 
with waning protection against MenY. 
In conclusion, we can agree with the company that an SmPC update based upon these data might not be 
necessary as the data will not significantly add to the information already reflected in the SmPC. 
Conclusion 
Issue solved 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 32/36 
  
  
 
 
 
Safety 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Systemic solicited AE’s occurred relatively more often in the primed group. The Applicant is asked to discuss 
this trend and substantiate whether or not to mention it in the SmPC. 
Company Response 
GSK acknowledges the observations made by the Agency that systemic AEs occurred relatively more often 
in the primed group (52%) than in vaccine-naïve subjects (36%; V59_77 Report Table 12.2.1-1). 
The mean age of subjects enrolled in the study was 17.1±3.66 years in the Menveo-Menveo group and 
17.8±4.53 years in the Menactra-Menveo group. The Naïve group enrolled mostly adults, with a mean age 
of 38.8±10.49 years. The age difference between the subjects in the primed groups and those in the Naïve 
group is in line with expected enrolment, given the ACIP recommendation for a universal vaccination with a 
quadrivalent conjugated meningococcal vaccine at 11-12 years of age and the subsequent recommendation 
for a booster dose approximately 5 years later. The difference in the percentages of subjects who reported 
systemic solicited AEs could have been caused by the difference in age between primed and vaccine-naïve 
subjects. It is generally expected that adolescents are more likely to have concomitant infectious diseases, 
which may have contributed to more frequent reported systemic solicited AEs in the primed group. Indeed, 
primed subjects more frequently reported unsolicited AEs in the system organ class “Infections and 
infestations” than vaccine-naïve subjects (pooled Menveo/Menactra-Menveo group: 20%; Naive group: 
13%), that are commonly associated with fatigue and headache, which were the 2 solicited systemic AEs 
that contributed most to the difference in the overall percentages of subjects who reported solicited systemic 
AEs between the primed and the Naive groups. Therefore, it is clinically plausible that the difference in the 
percentages of subjects who reported systemic solicited AEs could have been caused by the differences in 
age of those enrolled, rather than a difference in priming status between primed and vaccine-naïve subjects. 
Thus, we cannot conclude that the differences in reporting rates of solicited systemic AEs between the 
groups is related to the vaccination status of subjects, due to potential differences in reporting rates across 
different age groups.  
Assessor’s comment 
It is agreed with the MAH that the age difference between the groups could possibly explain the differences 
in reporting rates. 
Conclusion 
Issue solved 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Fatigue was reported very often by the current population and should be added to the frequency table in 
section 4.8. 
Company Response 
GSK acknowledges that fatigue was reported by 38% of primed subjects and 20% of vaccine-naïve subjects 
in study V59_77, which would correspond to the frequency “very common” in the SmPC. 
Although ‘fatigue’ is not included as a standalone term, GSK believes that it is already covered in the Menveo 
SmPC. The Menveo SmPC indeed includes “malaise” as a very common adverse reaction in individuals 11 to 
65 years of age. Malaise is a broader term which includes fatigue in its spectrum [Greenberg, 2002]. 
Considering the above, GSK considers an update of the SmPC not needed. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 33/36 
  
  
 
 
Assessor’s comment 
Both terms are separate MedDRA LLTs. It is acknowledged however that there is some overlap. The MAH is 
urged to be consistent in studies as to which terminology they use, and what definitions they apply. There is 
no need to include fatigue as likely this is encompassed by the ‘malaise’ already listed. 
Conclusion 
Issue solved. 
Rapporteur’s Request 
The SmPC currently describes that arthralgia occurs often. In the data presented here, arthralgia is 
described to occur very often. It is suggested to re-evaluate the frequency of arthralgia amongst the total 
number of subjects that have been exposed to Menveo.  
Company Response 
GSK acknowledges the Rapporteur’s request and has re-evaluated the frequency of arthralgia, considering 
all clinical trials that enrolled subjects 11 to 65 years of age. Table 3 below provides the number and 
percentages of subjects who reported arthralgia after any dose (primary or booster) of Menveo in clinical 
trials that enrolled subjects 11 to 65 years of age. 
Overall, 9.77% of subjects reported arthralgia. This is in line with what is currently reported in the Menveo 
SmPC, which reports arthralgia as “common”, i.e. ≥1% to <10%. Therefore, no update of the SmPC 
regarding the frequency of arthralgia is foreseen.  
Assessor’s comment 
The percentage of 9.77% is just inside the 10% threshold, therefore the rate can be considered ‘common’ 
rather than ‘very common’.  
Conclusion 
Issue solved. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 34/36 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Regarding the medically attended, possibly related AEs, the MAH should discuss whether these should be 
added to section 4.8. 
Company Response 
The following at least possibly related medically attended AEs (all non-serious) were reported following 
Menveo vaccination in study V59_77: urticaria (2 cases reported by 1 subject), fatigue, headache, and 
myalgia (1 case each, all in the same subject), anxiety (1 case in 1 subject), pyrexia (1 case in 1 subject), 
and lymphadenopathy (1 case in 1 subject). 
Except for urticaria (which is a symptom of hypersensitivity reactions) and lymphadenopathy, all these AEs 
are already reported in the Menveo SmPC. Urticaria and lymphadenopathy were only reported by 1 subject 
in study V59_77. GSK is of the opinion that this does not warrant an update of the SmPC. 
Assessor’s comment 
The position of the MAH is not agreed. Urticaria is a known adverse reaction to many vaccines and causality 
is therefore possible, however it can be accepted that it falls under hypersensitivity reactions. The same does 
not hold for lymphadenopathy, which is not currently covered by the information in the SmPC. Therefore this 
should be listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Conclusion 
Issue not solved. The MAH is expected to submit a type II variation to include lymphadenopathy in 4.8. 
Rapporteur’s Request 
Since the above changes to section 4.8 require a type II variation procedure, the MAH should consider to 
merge the separate frequency tables for children aged 2-10 years old and children and adults aged 11 years 
and older, in order to improve readability. 
Company Response 
As indicated in the above responses to the Rapporteur’s requests, GSK does not foresee an update of section 
4.8 of the Menveo SmPC. 
With regards to the request to merge the safety information for children 2 to 10 years of age and individuals 
11 to 65 years of age, GSK is of the opinion that applying this change will not improve the readability of the 
SmPC. On the contrary, due to differences in reactions usually reported by subjects in the different age 
groups (children, adolescents and adults) presenting all adverse reactions together will deprive health care 
providers of tools to make a risk assessment for subjects from different age groups. Therefore, GSK does not 
foresee any changes to the Section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Assessor’s comment 
The Rapporteur remains of the opinion that the two tables creates redundancy, but will not further pursue 
this issue. A type II variation to include urticaria and lymphadenopathy is still expected. 
Conclusion 
Issue solved.  
4.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
In conclusion, a single Menveo booster dose induced an anamnestic response within 5 days after vaccination 
in individuals primed with a quadrivalent conjugate meningococcal vaccine 4-6 years earlier. The company 
states that the data provided do not influence the benefit risk balance. This is agreed.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 35/36 
  
  
 
 
The MAH is expected to submit a type II variation to include lymphadenopathy in section 4.8. 
  Fulfilled 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/71871/2020 
Page 36/36 
  
  
