European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/635781/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
MEPACT 
International Nonproprietary Name: mifamurtide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000802 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 12 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 21 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 46 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 47 
 2/49 
  
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant IDM Pharma, S.A. submitted on 03 November 2006 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) through the centralised procedure for 
MEPACT, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product (EU/3/04/206) on 21 June 2004. 
MEPACT was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication:  treatment of 
osteosarcoma. The calculated prevalence of this condition was 0.5 per 10,000 EU population. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  the  treatment  of  high  grade  resectable  non-
metastatic osteosarcoma in combination with chemotherapy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Protocol Assistance  
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 12 May 2005. Protocol Assistance 
pertained to the quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Eric Abadie/Pierre Demolis 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 3 November 2006. 
The procedure started on 22 November 2006.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
8 February 2007.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 9 February 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  19-22  March  2007  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 March 2007. 
A  clarification  meeting  with  the  Rapporteurs  on  the  CHMP  List  of  Questions  was  held  on 
4 April 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
7 September 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 31 October 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 12-15 November 2007 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
A clarification meeting with the Rapporteurs on the CHMP list of outstanding issues was held 
on 28 November 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
21 December 2007. 
 3/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 11 January 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 January 2008 the outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant  during  an  oral  explanation  before  the  CHMP.  During  the  same  meeting  the  CHMP 
agreed  on  a  second  list  of  outstanding  issues  to  be  addressed  in  writing  and  in  an  oral 
explanation by the applicant. A GCP inspection, requested by the CHMP, was carried out at the 
following  site(s):  one  investigator  site  in  California,  USA  (inspected  11-13  June  2007),  one 
investigator  site  in  New  York,  USA  (inspected  18-21  June  2007)  and  the  sponsor  site  in 
California, USA (inspected 14-15 June 2007 / 14-18 April 2008). The final inspection reports 
were issued on 13 September 2007 and 9 June 2008. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP 2nd list of outstanding issues 23 May 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the 2nd list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 20 June 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 23-26 June 2008 the CHMP agreed on a 3rd list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  3rd  list  of  outstanding  issues 
20 August 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the 3rd list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 10 September 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  4th  list  of 
outstanding  issues  to  be  addressed  in  writing  and  at  an  oral  explanation  by  the  applicant.  A 
clarification meeting with the Rapporteurs was held on 25 September 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  4th  list  of  outstanding  issues  on 
20 October 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the 4th list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 3 November 2008. 
During a meeting of a SAG Oncology on 6 November 2008, experts were convened to address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 November 2008 the outstanding issues were addressed by 
the applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During  the  meeting  on  15-18  December  2008  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to MEPACT on 18 December 2008. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  
15 December 2008. 
 4/49 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Osteosarcoma  is  the  most  common  primary  malignancy  of  bone  tissue,  especially  in  children  and 
adolescents, but the overall incidence in Europe is low (<2.4 per 100.000). Osteosarcomas comprise 
56 percent of all bone cancers in individuals under the age of 20.  
Staging  incorporates  the  degree  of  differentiation  as  well  as  local  and  distant  spread  in  order  to 
estimate the prognosis of the patient. The histology grade of malignancy is divided into low grade and 
high  grade.  High-grade  osteosarcoma  accounts  for  approximately  20–22%  of  all  primary  malignant 
bone  tumours.  Occurrence  is  most  commonly  in  the  second  decade  of  life  with  frequencies  slightly 
higher in males than in females (1.5:1) and its peak frequency is observed in the adolescent.  
The extent of the primary tumour is classified as either intra-compartmental, meaning it has basically 
remained in place, or extra-compartmental, meaning it has extended into other nearby structures.  
Osteosarcoma  can  be  localized  or  metastatic.  Localized  tumours  are  limited  to  the  bone  of  origin, 
although  local  skip  metastases  may  be  apparent  within  the  bone,  indicating  a  worse  prognosis. 
Radiologic evidence of metastatic tumour deposits in lung, other bones and other distant sites is found 
in 15% to 20% of patients at diagnosis; 85% to 90% of metastatic disease is in the lungs. The second 
most common site of metastasis is another bone. 
Before  the  deployment  of  (neo)adjuvant  chemotherapy,  despite  surgery  and  or  radiotherapy, 
osteosarcoma had a 5 year survival rate of ca 15%. The explanation of this phenomenon is probably 
the  presence  of  micrometastasis  in the  majority  of  osteosarcoma  patients  presenting  without  clinical 
metastasis.  Due to the  effects  of  (neo)adjuvant  chemotherapy  the  5  year’s survival  for  patients  with 
osteosarcoma is approximately 65 percent. Clinically detectable metastatic disease at initial diagnosis 
is the most consistent adverse prognostic factor: Overt metastasis at diagnosis has a major impact on 
patient survival: The estimated long-term survival proportion for patients with localized osteosarcoma 
is about two-thirds compared to 25 percent for patients with metastatic disease. 
Since  the  eighties  adjuvant  chemotherapy  is  considered  standard  treatment  component  of  resectable 
osteosarcoma,  both  in  children  and  in  adults.  The  choice  of  regimen  and  the  optimal  timing  of 
application  are  still  under  investigation.  Also,  preoperative  chemotherapy  may  be  applied  when  a 
limb-sparing procedure is considered. Neoadjuvant treatment has been established in the early nineties 
with  the  aim  to  facilitate  limb  sparing  surgery  following  initial  systemic  therapy.  This  neo-adjuvant 
treatment may result in down staging of the primary process as well as eradication of micrometastasis. 
It  may  also  reveal  efficacy  of  the  chemotherapy  by  the  extent  of  necrosis  induced  in  the  tumour 
(Huvos grade).  
Current  treatment  regimen  consist  of  ifosfamide,  high  dose  methotrexate  (HDMTX),  cisplatin,  and 
doxorubicin  or  (HD)  methotrexate,  doxorubicin,  bleomycin,  cyclophosphamide,  and  dactinomycin 
with/without  cisplatin.  Neo-adjuvant  treatment  has  been  established  in  the  early  nineties  with  the 
intent of facilitating limb sparing surgery following initial systemic therapy. The upfront addition of 
ifosfamide to HDMTX and doxorubicin (as well as cisplatin) has been found to improve initial tumour 
response rates, but the influence on overall and event-free survival remained unclear.  
Response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in general is variable and a major prognostic factor. Five-year 
survival  rates  for  patients  with  an  extremity  sarcoma  and  a  "good"  response  to  chemotherapy  (as 
stated, <10% viable tumor cells in the surgical specimen) are significantly higher than for those with a 
lesser response, although survival did not differ significantly in relation to histologic subtype.  
Liposomal  muramyl  tripeptide  phosphatidyl-ethanolamine  (L-MTP-PE)  consists  of  a  liposomal 
embedded  active  ingredient  muramyl  tripeptide  (MTP).  The  phosphatidyl  ethanolamine  (PE)  was 
added  to  facilitate  the  integration  of  MTP  into  the  liposomes.  MTP  is  a  synthetic  derivative  of 
muramyl dipeptide (MDP), the smallest naturally-occurring immunostimulatory component of the cell 
wall  of  primarily  Gram  positive  bacteria  like  Bacillus  Calmette-Guerin,  and  a  major  component  in 
Freund’s complete adjuvant. MTP-PE is lyophilised with a mixture of phospholipids (1-palmitoyl-2-
oleoylphosphatidylcholine  and  1,2-dioleoylphosphatidylserine)  that,  when  constituted  with  saline, 
 5/49 
 
provides  the  liposomal  structure  which  is  supposed  to  facilitate  targeting  the  MTP-PE  to  tissue 
macrophages and the RES. The target cells of the liposomes seem the same cells that also express the 
receptor for MTP-PE and contain NOD2 as an intracellular effector protein. The presumed mode of 
action  is  the  activation  of  macrophages  by  MTP-PE,  rendering  these  cells  tumoricidal,  but  the 
Applicant states that the mode of action is not fully understood.  
The applicant applied for an indication for MEPACT in combination with post-operative multi-agent 
chemotherapy  for  children  and  adults  for  the  treatment  of  high-grade  resectable  non-metastatic 
osteosarcoma (bone cancer) after surgery to remove the tumour. Following CHMP scientific review, 
the  applicant  changed  the  indication  to:  MEPACT  is  indicated  in  children,  adolescents  and  young 
adults  for  the  treatment  of  high-grade  resectable  non-metastatic  osteosarcoma  after  macroscopically 
complete surgical resection. It is used in combination with post-operative multi-agent chemotherapy. 
Safety and efficacy have been assessed in studies of patients 2 to 30 years of age at initial diagnosis 
(see  SPC  section  5.1).  The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended (“complete and independent application”). 
MEPACT  treatment  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  specialist  physicians  experienced  in  the 
diagnosis  and  treatment  of  osteosarcoma.  The  recommended  dose  of  mifamurtide  for  all  patients  is 
2 mg/m2 body surface area. It should be administered as adjuvant therapy following resection: twice 
weekly  at  least  3 days  apart  for  12 weeks,  followed by  once-weekly  treatments  for  an  additional  24 
weeks for a total of 48 infusions in 36 weeks.(see SPC section 4.2). 
MEPACT  must  be  reconstituted,  filtered  using  the  filter  provided  and  further  diluted  prior  to 
administration. The reconstituted, filtered and diluted suspension for infusion is a homogenous, white 
to off-white, opaque liposomal suspension, free of visible particles and free of foam and lipid lumps. 
After reconstitution, filtering using the filter provided and further dilution, MEPACT is administered 
by  intravenous  infusion  over  a  period  of  1 hour.  MEPACT  must  not  be  administered  as  a  bolus 
injection (See SPC section 4.2). Instructions on reconstitution, filtering using the filter provided and 
dilution prior to administration are provided in the SPC (see SPC section 6.6.). 
MEPACT has been granted Orphan Medicinal Product status in accordance to the conclusion of the 
COMP  (EU/3/04/206,  opinion  dated  21/06/2004)  in  view  of  the  prevalence  of  the  condition  (high 
grade  resectable  non-metastatic  osteosarcoma  after  neoadjuvant  therapy  and  definitive  tumour 
resection in children and young adults) which was considered as <1 per 10,000 individuals in the EU. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
MEPACT  is  a  liposomal  formulation  of  a  new  chemical  entity,  mifamurtide,  an  immune  modulator 
proposed for clinical  use with  adjuvant  chemotherapy  in  the treatment  of  children  and  young  adults 
with  high  grade  resectable  non-metastatic  osteosarcoma  after  neoadjuvant  therapy  and  definitive 
tumour  resection.  L-MTP-PE  was  first  developed  by  Ciba-Geigy,  Inc.  in  the  early  1980s  as  a 
biological  response  modifier  for  the  treatment  of  metastatic  tumors.  After  licensing  by  another 
company, L-MTP-PE rights were purchased by IDM in 2003. The product is presented as lyophilisate 
for suspension for intravenous injection and is supplied in a carton that contains one dose of MEPACT 
supplied as lyophilisate in a 50 ml glass vial and one sterile Mifamurtide filter supplied in a blister. 
The recommended dose of mifamurtide for all patients is 2 mg/m2 body surface area as per the SPC. 
Active Substance 
The  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  is  Mifamurtide  corresponding  to  the  molecular  formula 
C59H108N6O19P • Na • xH2O where x = 0 to 5. 
Mifamurtide, also called liposomal muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (L-MTP-PE), is a 
liposomal formulation of active ingredient muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl ethanolamine (MTP-PE), 
which is a fully synthetic lipophilic derivative of muramyl dipeptide (MDP).  
MDP  is  the  smallest  naturally-occurring  immunostimulatory  component  of  the  bacterial  cell  walls 
used  in  Freund’s  complete  adjuvant.  MTP-PE  is  lyophilised  with  a  mixture  of  phospholipids  [1-
palmitoyl-2-oleoylphosphatidylcholine  (POPC)  and  1,2-  dioleoylphosphatidylserine  (OOPS)]  that, 
when  constituted  with  saline,  provide  the  liposomal  structure  and  facilitate  targeting  to  tissue 
macrophages. Preliminary data have confirmed that MTP-PE is a specific ligand of NOD2, a receptor 
found primarily on monocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages. 
 6/49 
 
MTP-PE  is  an  amphipathic  molecule,  bearing  a  hydrophilic  moiety  (i.e.  muramyl  peptide)  and  a 
lipophilic moiety (i.e. dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine). MTP-PE behaves as a surface active, 
bilayer forming molecule that can associate at an oil-water interface and form micellar structures and 
intercalate into bilayers formed from other lipids, such as phospholipids. 
It  appears  as  an  odourless  white  to  off  -white  amorphous  powder.  The  tripeptide  possesses  4  chiral 
carbons,  and  also  the  muramyl  moiety  has  4  chiral  carbons,  all  with  a  specific  configuration.  The 
substance 
in 
chloroform/methanol 9:1.      
is  optically  pure  with  a  defined  specific  optical  rotation  when  measured 
It  is  soluble  in  chloroform,  methylene  chloride,  t-butanol,  and  ethyl  acetate,  slightly  soluble  in 
methanol,  and  ethanol  and  insoluble  in  diethyl  ether.  In  water  it  results  in  clear  solutions  with 
aggregated (micellar) structures. Its pKa is 2.5 to 3.5. 
The current manufacturing process yields an amorphous solid with very low crystallinity. Since MTP-
PE  is  processed  from  homogeneous  solution  and  incorporated  into  liposome  bilayers  for 
administration, polymorph forms, if in existence, would disappear. Therefore, polymorphism of MTP-
PE is not relevant and has not been studied.  
•  Manufacture 
MTP-PE is synthesized from peptide, carbohydrate and lipid components. The synthesis of the drug 
substance is performed under GMP from five starting materials. 
Three early and stable intermediates are manufactured separately and in bulk quantities, which can be 
stored  long  term.  These  early  intermediates  are  prepared  in  sufficient  quantity  to  make  multiple 
batches of the  drug  substance from  single batches  of  the  early  intermediates. The  steps  that  may  be 
considered as critical are described and validation results on three batches are submitted.  
During synthesis, the drug substance is exposed only to organic solvents and is essentially free from 
bacterial contamination. Only at the last step of processing involving ultrafiltration for salt exchange 
and concentration is there a potential source of microbial contamination. However, the process is well 
controlled. A 0.22 µm filtration unit and a 0.22 µm membrane filter are in place before and after the 
ultrafiltration step to remove potential contaminants. The resulting MTP-PE drug substance powder is 
tested for bioburden and endotoxin prior to release for production of the drug product. 
The  commercial  process  for  preparation  of  L-MTP-PE  does  not  use  any  materials  that  are  directly 
derived from animal sources. However, there are two animal derived phospholipases used during the 
synthesis of the excipients. The first phospholipase is produced by fermentation of a microorganism. 
The animal derived component, peptone, is introduced in the production medium used to produce the 
microorganism. The peptone used is derived from milk produced by healthy bovine and that such milk 
is comparable to the quality of milk used for human consumption as required by the guideline. 
As  far  as  the  second  phospholipase  concerns,  a  certificate  of  origin  for  the  bovine  material  was 
provided.  Furthermore,  a  processing  step  that  involves  low  pH  treatment  (2-3  pH  solution)  over  60 
minutes is employed.  This processing step was included to inactivate any putative viruses, if present. 
•  Specification 
The  specifications  for  the  control  of  the  drug  substance  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual), 
identification  (IR,  TLC),  specific  rotation  (polarimetry),  pH  and  clarity  of  solution  (PhEur),  assay 
(HPLC),  fatty  acid  analysis  (GC), related substances (LC-MS/MS), residual  solvents  (GC),  Ratio  of 
Alanine  to  Isoglutamine  (cation  exchange-derivatisation-photometric  determination),  water  content 
(Karl-Fischer),  heavy  metals  (Inductively  Coupled  Plasma-Optical  Emission  Spectroscopy  (ICP-
OES)),  microbial contamination (PhEur). 
•  Stability 
Stability  data  on the active  substance  have  been  provided for  three production scaled  batches  (post-
change) and nine pilot scaled batches stored at -20 °C (18-24 months), 5 °C (18-24 months), and 25 
°C/60% RH (6 months). The drug substance is normally packaged in 1000 ml glass containers with a 
polybutylene  terephthalate  (PBT)  screw  cap  containing  a  polytetrafluoro-ethylene  (PTFE)  liner. 
However, the stability studies were performed in 2ml glass vials, blanketed with argon and sealed with 
Teflon coated butyl rubber stoppers. A re-test period of 24 months at -20 °C can be granted. The TLC 
 7/49 
method  which  has  been  used,  is  considered  acceptable  as  the  main  degradation  product  is  detected. 
The  CHMP  however,  asked  the  applicant  to  provide  stability  data  (at  least  of  the  proposed  re-test 
period) in which the impurities have been measured by LC-MS/MS as part of the Follow-up Measures 
to which the Applicant committed. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The identification of the optimal liposomal formulation was based on preclinical and animal studies. 
The clinical trials of L-MTP-PE conducted under the sponsorship of Ciba-Geigy, and Jenner and US 
National Cancer Institute (for the pivotal study INT-0133) and the majority of the preclinical studies 
were  all  performed  using  the  identified  optimal  formulation  by  mixing  MTP-PE  with  the  lipid 
excipients  (consisting  of  a  fixed  POPC  to  OOPS  ratio)  in  a  defined  ratio.  This  is  the  formulation 
proposed for the drug product discussed in this marketing application. 
The product is a  lyophilisate  for  suspension  for  injection,  i.e.,  a  dry  mixture  of 3  components to  be 
constituted  by  hydration  and  mixing  with  50  ml  of  0.9%  NaCl  solution  resulting  in  injectable 
multilamellar  microspheres,  to  be  injected  after  filtration  and  after  adding  to  a  50  ml  0.9%  NaCl 
infusion liquid.  
L-MTP-PE is a formulation of muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl ethanolamine (MTP-PE), which is a 
fully  synthetic  lipophilic  derivative  of  muramyl  dipeptide  (MDP).  The  later  is  a  naturally  occurring 
component of bacterial cell walls. The product is supplied in vials, each one containing 5% overfill so 
one  dosage  form  is  expected  to  deliver  4  mg  of  MTP-PE  and  a  mixture  of  two  phospholipids:  1-
Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine  (POPC)  and  1,2-Dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-
serine  monosodium  salt  (OOPS).  The  overage  is  intended  to  compensate  for  losses  of  volume  of 
suspension in syringe, filter housing and infusion lines including drop counters etc. 
Systemic administration of MTP-PE drug substance to animals results in activation of macrophages to 
bactericidal,  virucidal,  fungicidal,  parasiticidal,  and 
tumoricidal  states.  However,  systemic 
administration of an aqueous solution of the amphiphilic MTP-PE, as micelles, was accompanied by 
deleterious side effects, stimulating development of a liposomal formulation.  
However,  the  drug  substance  has  been  purposely  designed  to  be  a  true  phospholipid.    It  was 
demonstrated that the true phospholipid MTP-PE does not escape from the lipid bilayers and the MTP-
PE  molecule  is  not  molecularly  dissolved  in  aqueous  solution.  By  using  ultra-centrifugation 
experiments it was shown that no MTP-PE existed outside the liposomes. It was further demonstrated 
by immunoassay for MTP-PE, only functional for either free MTP-PE or MTP-PE at the surface of the 
liposomes, based on 4 batches, that only small parts (if any) of the MTP-PE exist in free form in the 
liposome  suspension during  the  7  days  storage  after constitution.  In  view  of  the  presented  data it is 
considered that it has been sufficiently demonstrated that measurement of free MTP-PE or release rate 
measurements of MTP-PE are not required as drug product specification. 
In the very early development natural phospholipids used to manufacture a product in the form of a 
thin film  but  soon  after  synthetic  excipients  were  employed  and the  product  was  manufactured as  a 
sterile dry lyophilisate with a robust, porous structure. Synthetic phospholipids were preferred because 
they  have  a  reproducible  fatty  acid  composition  with  predictable  properties  for  the  formation  of 
liposomes  in  contrast  to  phospholipids  isolated  from  natural  sources.  Synthetic  phospholipids  also 
contain  monounsaturated  fatty  acid  chains  that  are  more  stable  than  the  oxidation-sensitive 
polyunsaturated fatty acid chains contained in lipids from natural sources. 
The  two  synthetic  phospholipids  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  product  are  POPC  (1-Palmitoyl-2-
oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine)  and  OOPS  (1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycerol-sn-phosphatidyl-L-
serine monosodium salt. OOPS and POPC are non-compendial, inactive, excipients. 
Both the polar head groups (choline and serine) and fatty acid chains (palmitic acid and oleic acid) of 
the lipids in L-MTP-PE are common, naturally occurring substances in man. POPC has a phosphatidyl 
choline structure similar to natural lecithins. It has the most frequently occurring fatty acid – palmitic 
acid – in 1-position and an unsaturated fatty acid - oleic acid - in 2-position. OOPS has a phosphatidyl 
serine structure similar to the anionic phospholipids found in many tissues. After lyophilisation, these 
lipids  form  a  stable,  dry  lipid  cake  with  a  porous  structure,  providing  a  large  surface  area  which  is 
 8/49 
optimal for contact with the constitution medium. The selected phospholipids have a phase transition 
temperature  of  about  5°C  when  in  contact  with  water.  This  allows  the  in  situ  preparation  of  the 
liposome  suspension  at  room  temperature.  The  in  situ  constitution  method  was  shown  to  yield 
multilamellar  liposomes  (MLVs)  having  the  desired  size  range  for  optimal  macrophage  uptake  and 
sustained release of MTP-PE to the cells. Size distribution studies showed that the MTP-PE liposomes 
have  a  monomodal  size  distribution  and  are  chemically  homogeneous,  i.e.,  the  same  MTP-PE: 
POPC:OOPS ratio was found in both small (<1µm) and large (>5µm) liposomes. No unincorporated, 
non-liposomal MTP-PE was detected. The drug substance is an integral component of the liposomal 
bilayer. 
Expected rates of hydrolysis are 75% for small unilamellar vesicles (SUVs), 50% for large unilamellar 
vesicles (LUVs), and 5% for multilamellar vesicles (MLVs). The potential impact of the varying ratios 
between SUVs – LUVs – MLVs towards a consistent drug dosage therapy has been sufficiently dealt, 
as well as relationship with degradation of POPC and MTP-PE. 
The optimal ratio of of POPC to OOPS used in the product, was established by relevant studies of the 
pharmacologic  effects  in  in  vitro  phagocytosis  experiments  with  radiolabeled  liposomes  containing 
various ratios of the lipids. The ratio of MTP-PE to phospholipids was selected  to optimize anti-tumor 
efficacy in a murine B16 melanoma model. 
The exposed lipid on the outside of the liposome is susceptible to enzymatic hydrolysis.  
Changes  to  the  formulation  during  the  drug  product  development  were  relatively  minor  and  the 
provided  information  suggests  that  both  pre-change  and  post-change  products  are  very  well 
comparable  for  all  involved,  very  varying  parameters.  Before  administration,  the  lyophilisate  is 
reconstituted  with  Sodium  Chloride  Injection  (0.9%  NaCl)  to  form  multilamellar  liposomes 
suspension.  The  suspension  is  then  filtered  with  the  IDM  spike  filter  prior  to  intravenous  injection. 
The filter step intends to remove foam and reduce the content of particles ≥10 µm in the constituted 
liposomal  suspension  in  order  to  prevent  thromboembolic  events  after  i.v.  administration.  The  IDM 
spike filter is provided in the drug product package thus is considered part of this application. 
The filters  have  little  impact  on  the  overall  liposome  size  distribution,  but  remove  or  disperse large 
liposomes efficiently. Various filter materials have been tested for their compatibility with constituted 
L-MTP-PE. Results have shown straight pore filters of 3 µm average pore size are particularly well 
suited; thus was chosen. The packaged filters are terminally sterilised by ethylene oxide. The release 
specification for the spike filter includes appropriate testing and specification for the residual ethylene 
oxide in accordance with ISO 10993-7. The IDM spike filter included with L-MTP-PE drug product is 
affixed  with  a  CE  mark  showing  it  satisfies  all  essential  requirements  of  applicable  sections  of 
Directive  93/42/CEE  on  the  Medical  Devices.  Filters  are  released  for  use  after  meeting  appropriate 
visual, dimensional, and functional tests. 
POPC 
POPC is an amphipathic molecule bearing a hydrophilic moiety (i.e., choline group) and a lipophilic 
moiety (i.e., the dipalmitoyl glycerol part). Such physico-chemical characteristics drive the solubility 
profile  of  POPC  to  behave  as  a  bilayer  forming  agent.  In  aqueous  media,  it  can  be  dispersed  into 
liposomal structures. 
It appears as a hygroscopic white to off-white odorless powder. There are no established polymorphs. 
POPC  is  derived  from  phosphatidyl  choline.  Lecithin  is  usually  used  as  a  synonym  for  pure 
phosphatidyl  choline, a  phospholipid  that is  the  major  component  of  a  phosphatide  fraction  isolated 
from either egg yolk or soy beans. Chemically, lecithin is phosphatidyl choline. Recommended doses 
range from 3 to 9 grams of phosphatidylcholine daily in divided doses. 
Lecithin  supplements  containing  20  to  30%  phosphatidyl-choline  are  used  as  a  dietary  supplement. 
Lecithin is also used for parenteral application and the product was shown to have no adverse effects. 
Synthesis  schemes  were  provided  and  sufficient  information  concerning  critical  steps  and 
intermediates,  residual  solvents,  specifications,  analytical  methods  and  stability  has  been  provided. 
Impurities found in POPC appear to be of lipid structure. As such, they represent components found in 
natural lipids. No such components are known to cause any problems or safety concerns in the doses 
 9/49 
finally  administered. The  amounts  present  are  usually  so low  as individual  components, that  neither 
identification nor qualification is considered necessary.  
Comparability test results between POPC batches from the two suppliers used throughout the product 
development were presented. In general the results indicate that POPC materials from both sources are 
highly comparable. 
OOPS 
OOPS appears as an odorless white to off-white powder. There are no established polymorphs. OOPS 
is  derived  from  phosphatidyl  serine.  Phosphatidyl  serine,  a  ubiquitous,  endogenously  occurring 
phospholipid,  is  a  structural  component  of  biological  membranes  of  plants,  animals  and  other  life 
forms. 
Phosphatidyl serine derived from both bovine brain and soy lecithin is used as a dietary supplement. 
Phosphatidyl  serine  derived  from  soy  lecithin  undergoes  an  enzymatic  process  that  converts 
phosphatidyl  choline  to  phosphatidyl  serine.  Because  of  the  hypothetical  possibility  of  bovine 
spongiform  encephalopathy,  the  soy-derived  phosphatidyl  serine  is  preferred.  Typical  doses  are  100 
mg three times daily. Though with different route of administration, when phosphatidyl serine is used 
as  a  dietary  supplement  it  is  considered  safe.  It  is  generally  accepted  that  “the  use  of  phosphatidyl 
serine as a  dietary  supplement  is  safe  provided that bovine-derived  sources,  if used, are  not  derived 
from bovine tissues from cattle born, raised, or slaughtered in any country where BSE exists.” 
Synthesis  schemes  were  provided  and  sufficient  information  concerning  critical  steps  and 
intermediates, residual solvents, specifications, analytical methods and stability has been provided.  
Impurities  seen  in  OOPS,  are  of  lipid  structure  and  as  such,  they  represent  components  found  in 
natural lipids. No such components are known to cause any problems or safety concerns in the doses 
finally  administered. The  amounts  present  are  usually  so low  as individual  components, that  neither 
identification nor qualification is considered to be necessary. 
Comparability test results between POPC batches from the two suppliers used throughout the product 
development were presented. In general the results indicate that POPC materials from both sources are 
highly comparable. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The  commercial  process  for  preparation  of  L-MTP-PE  does  not  use  any  materials  that  are  directly 
derived  from  animal  sources;  except  for  the  following  two  materials  used  during  the  manufacturing 
process for POPC and OOPS: 
•  Phospholipase  A2  (PLA2)  is  used  as  reagent  in  the  synthesis  of  POPC.  Phospholipase  A2  is 
isolated from porcine pancreatic gland. 
•  Peptone is used as a reagent in the production of Phospholipase D. Phospholipase D is then used in 
the manufacturing process of OOPS. Peptone is derived from bovine milk casein. 
Regarding PLA2 a document from the manufacturer of PLA2 is available comprising statements that 
the porcine material is obtained from an approved and supervised slaughterhouse, from animals having 
received  ante  mortem  and  post  mortem  veterinarian  inspections,  and  that  storage  and  delivery  is  in 
frozen  state,  comprising  enzyme  activity  unit  specifications  and  microbiological  specifications,  and 
comprising  a  report  stating  that  the  risk  of  transmitting  swine  Hepatitis  E  Virus  (swine  HEV)  is 
estimated to be insignificant. Considering the minute amount of these enzymes used in the MEPACT 
production and the rightly assumed inactivation by process steps of PLA2, POPC and MEPACT the 
issue of viral safety of the product is sufficiently covered. 
Regarding  Phospholipase  D  a  statement  is  present  from  the  manufacturer  of  Phospholipase  D 
declaring that Phospholipase D is manufactured without materials of animal origin, i.e., the enzyme is 
TSE/BSE  free,  and  that  the  peptone  used  is  derived  from  milk  produced  by  healthy  bovine  in  New 
Zealand and that such milk is comparable to the quality of milk used for human consumption. 
The  provided  statements  are  considered  to  be  acceptable  for  the  two  materials  from  animal  source, 
being used for the manufacturing of the excipients POPC and OOPS, respectively. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
 10/49 
The drug product is manufactured by aseptic processing under aseptic conditions in a grade A clean 
area. The active and inactive ingredients are formulated into bulk solution in an appropriate solvent. 
The bulk solution is filtered through a sterile 0.22 µm nylon membrane filter and filled in sterilized, 
depyrogenated  vials  in  a  continuous  manner.  The  filled  vials  are  lyophilised,  sealed,  inspected  and 
packaged. The bulk solution is typically compounded and filled within 48 hours. Before filtration of 
the bulk solution, samples for Quality Control and bioburden analysis are withdrawn. 
•  Product Specification 
The release and shelf life specifications comprise requirements for both the dry lyophilisate as well as 
the  constituted  liposome  suspension.  The  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance  of  vial  content 
(visual), Mean of mass content per vial (weighing), Appearance of constituted liposomal suspension 
(visual), pH of constituted liposomal suspension (potentiometry), Particle (i.e., liposome) size and size 
distribution  in  constituted  liposomal  suspension  (light  diffraction),  sub-visible  particles  (light 
obscuration  particle  count),  identity  of  components  (by  TLC)  within  constituted  liposomal 
suspension(for MTP-PE,  POPC,  OOPS  by  TLC),  Water  content (PhEur),  Residual  Solvent  (PhEur), 
Sterility  (PhEur),  Bacterial  Endotoxins  (PhEur),  assay  Content  of  components  within  constituted 
liposomal suspension (for MTP-PE, POPC and OOPS by HPLC), Impurities (HPLC), Birefringence in 
constituted liposomal suspension (polarized light microscopy), Bioassay (biologic activity of MAC by 
their ability to generate TNF-α secretion). 
The  impurity  limits  included  in  the  specifications  for  POPC  and  OOPS  have  been  toxicologically 
qualified with the preclinical and clinical studies. 
Batch analysis results were provided for 3 batches from IDM, 15 clinical batches from Ciba-Geigy and 
one additional batch from Jenner.  
Sufficient  data regarding  the  comparability  of  constituted liposome  product  of early  clinical  batches 
(from Ciba-Geigy) and post-change batches (from IDM) have been presented and appropriate testing 
and specifications were established. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Long Term Stability 
Stability  data  from  five  batches  stored  for  up  to  24  months  at  (5±3  ºC)  and  up  to  12  months  at 
accelerated  (25±2  ºC  /60±5  %  RH)  storage  conditions  have  been  presented.  These  batches  were 
manufactured by the commercial manufacturer using the proposed commercial process and scale. 
Results showed no significant change from the release testing or from baseline. The data support the 
claimed self life, when the drug product is stored in accordance with the conditions specified in the  
SPC.  
In addition, stability data from five older batches (Ciba-Geigy) stored for up to 24 months at 8°C and 
25°C as well as three months at 40°C were provided as supportive information. 
All  stability  studies  have  been  performed  with  L-MTP-PE  in  the  actual  containers  used  for  clinical 
studies and intended for commercial materials. Results of the chemical testing showed no change in 
MTP-PE, OOPS, and POPC content after up to 24 months storage at 5°C. MTP-PE and OOPS content 
after  12  months  storage  at  25°C  showed  an  approximate  5%  loss;  MTP-PE  content  after  3  months 
storage  at  40°C  showed  an  approximate  10-12%  loss;  and,  OOPS  content  after  3  months  storage  at 
40°C  showed  an  approximate  25%  loss.  The  constituted  liposomal  suspension  stored  under  the 
experimental conditions did  not  show  any  variation with  regard  to  particle  size  distribution.  After 3 
months storage of the powder at 40°C, the appearance of the constituted liposomal suspension showed 
a yellowish color. 
Short-Term Stability of the Liposome Suspension 
The  study  showed  that  the  reconstituted  drug  product  from  both  Ciba-Geigy  and  IDM  batches  was 
stable  for  up  to  14-24  hours.  Storage  of  the  constituted  drug  product  for  up  to 14  hours  showed  no 
measurable  degradation,  and  the  stability  profile  is  consistent across  four lots  of  drug  product  when 
either stored in PVC or polyolefin infusion bags.  
 11/49 
No adverse trend can be observed in the in-use stability study in the infusion bags. Values of MTP-PE 
assay fluctuation during the 24 hour storage period were within an acceptable window. The proposed 6 
hours in-use time of the constituted product in the infusion bags is therefore acceptable. Stability of 
the constituted drug product has been demonstrated for time periods well in excess of those that can be 
expected in clinical practice and in excess of the proposed hold time as per the SPC. 
A  one-week  short-term  stability  study  of  the  liposome  suspension  prepared  from  three  batches  of 
MEPACT  from  the  current  manufacturer  was  presented  to  confirm  the  earlier  findings  from  Ciba-
Geigy  for  the  stability  of  the  constituted  suspension  of  MEPACT  in  the  vial.  The  reconstitution  is 
performed according to the instructions proposed in the SPC. This study was also intended to show 
that the drug substance remains integrated in the liposomal layers (i.e., not released during storage.) 
The data do not reveal change of the suspension in vials after 7 days of storage in the refrigerator or 
release of the drug substance from the liposomes. 
Photostability of reconstituted Liposomes 
A  photostability  study  on  reconstituted  liposomes  on  one  batch  of  drug  product  including  test 
parameters  on  MTP-PE,  POPC,  Lyso-MTP-PE  content  was  conducted.  Results  indicate  that  the 
constituted suspension is photostable up to 24 hours of indoor indirect daylight. The same batch was 
also tested in a temperature cycling study with results meeting the shelf life specifications.  
Stability of Temperature Cycling of L-MTP-PE Lyophilisate 
A  temperature  cycling  study  was  also  conducted  to  assess  the  effect  of  short-term  temperature 
excursion  outside  of  the  label  storage  conditions,  e.g.,  as  may  be  experienced  during  shipping  and 
handling,  on  product  properties  and  stability  of  the  product.  The  study  was  performed  on  one 
representative  lot  of  L-MTP-PE  vials.  The  product  properties  immediately  after  exposure  to  the 
thermal  conditions  all  comply  with  stability  acceptance  criteria.  This  study  will  continue  until  the 
evaluation  of  product  stored  24  months  at  label  conditions  after  exposure  in  order  to  determine  the 
long term effect of the thermal excursions. 
In conclusion the submitted data support the self life of the product when stored under the conditions 
specified  in  the  SPC  and  in  addition  sufficient  in-use  stability  of  the  liposome  suspension  has  been 
demonstrated as stated in the SPC.   
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The quality of the active substance is considered sufficiently 
described  and  adequately  supported  by  data.  Sufficient  information  has  been  presented  for  the 
excipients POPC and OOPS which are considered novel excipients. Both comply with acceptable in-
house  specifications  in  view  of  their  synthesis.  Full  information  on  the  synthesis  and  toxicologic 
profile of these excipients has been provided. As far as the drug product concerns the results of tests 
carried  out 
important  product  quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. 
indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  total  of  86  pharmacology  studies  (including  primary  and  secondary  pharmacodynamic  and  safety 
pharmacology evaluations), 12 pharmacokinetic (ADME) studies and 20 toxicology studies, including 
toxicokinetic  assessments,  have  been  submitted  in  support  of  the  current  marketing  application  for  
L-MTP-PE.  The  studies  primarily  used  the  i.v.  route  to  model  the  intended  clinical  route  of 
administration.  
All  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicology  studies  were  conducted  with  L-MTP-PE,  the  same 
test  material  used  in  all  clinical  studies  and  intended  for  marketing.  Among  all  the  safety 
pharmacology studies, only the  QT intervals studies were GLP compliant. Other safety pharmacology 
studies  were  performed  between  1984  and  1989  and  were  not  GLP  compliant.  The  majority  of 
 12/49 
 
toxicology  studies,  including  the  pivotal  toxicology  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with 
international GLP guidelines. 
The  applicant  sought  EMEA  protocol  assistance  on  the  pharmaceutical,  preclinical  and  clinical 
development. Concerning preclinical aspects, the advice addressed safety pharmacology studies (QT 
prolongation  following  the  requirements  of  ICH  guideline  S7B)  and  the  lack  of  a  complete 
genotoxicity program. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other cytokines and immunomodulators, ATC code: L03AX15 
Mifamurtide (muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl ethanolamine, MTP-PE) is a fully synthetic derivative 
of muramyl dipeptide (MDP), the smallest naturally-occurring immune stimulatory component of cell 
walls  from  Mycobacterium  sp.    It  has  similar  immunostimulatory  effects  as  natural  MDP  with  the 
additional advantage of a longer half-life in plasma. MEPACT is a liposomal formulation specifically 
designed for in vivo targeting to macrophages by intravenous infusion.  
MTP-PE is a specific ligand of NOD2, a receptor found primarily on monocytes, dendritic cells and 
macrophages.    MTP-PE  is  a  potent  activator  of  monocytes  and  macrophages.  Activation  of  human 
macrophages  by  MEPACT  is  associated  with  production  of  cytokines,  including  tumour  necrosis 
factor  (TNF-α),  interleukin-1  (IL-1β),  IL-6,    IL-8,  and  IL-12  and  adhesion  molecules,  including 
lymphocyte  function-associated  antigen-1  (LFA-1)  and  intercellular adhesion  molecule-1  (ICAM-1).  
In vitro-treated human monocytes killed allogeneic and autologous tumor cells (including melanoma, 
ovarian,  colon,  and  renal  carcinoma)  (Key  et  al.  1982,  Fidler  et  al.  1986,  Talmadge  et  al.  1984, 
Talmadge et al. 1986) but had no toxicity towards normal cells.  
In  vivo  administration  of  MEPACT  resulted  in  the  inhibition  of  tumour  growth  in  mouse  and  rat 
models of lung metastasis, skin and liver cancer, and fibrosarcoma (Saiki et al., 1986, Karpoff et al. 
2000,  Thomas  et  al.  1995,  Wange  et  al.  1995,  MacEwen  et  al.  1988).    Significant  enhancement  of 
disease-free  survival  was  also  demonstrated 
treatment  of  dog  osteosarcoma  and 
hemangiosarcoma  with  MEPACT  as  adjuvant  therapy  (MacEwen  et  al.  1989,  Smith  et  al.  1993, 
Kurzman et al. 1995, Vail et al. 1995). 
the 
in 
The applicant  submitted the  results  of  a  study  of  L-MTP-PE  on  lung  metastases  in  mice  bearing 
Lewis  Lung  carcinoma  primary  tumour  in  the  footpad.  L-MTP-PE  (0.75  or  7.5  mg/m2  i.v.,  three 
times weekly/2 weeks) was started three days after either early (d 11) or late (d 17) removal of 
the primary tumour. Treatment with L-MTP-PE or with empty liposomes after early removal of the 
primary tumour resulted in decrease in the number of lung metastases compared to control. However, 
late removal of the primary tumour was associated with an increase in lung metastasis, and the effect 
was larger for mice treated with L-MTP-PE or with empty liposomes, compared to control.  
An effect of L-MTP-PE was also observed using renal adenocarcinoma cells in mice receiving empty 
liposomes (Dinney et al., 1992). 
In  a  fibrosarcoma  tumor  model,  mice  received  a  single  local  dose  of  thoracic  irradiation,  treatment 
with  L-MTP-  PE  (3  mg/m2  (1  mg/kg)  i.v.  twice  weekly/4-weeks,  or  a  combination  of  the  two 
treatments five days after i.v. injection of fibrosarcoma cells. Treatment with L-MTP-PE alone did not 
decrease  the  median  number  of  lung  tumor  colonies,  nor  significantly  increase  the  animal  survival. 
Although the treatment with irradiation alone significantly prolonged median survival (p = 0.01), the 
most  significant  results  were  obtained  with  the  combined  treatment  (p  =  0.001),  where  60%  of  the 
mice survived up to day 140 and were found to be tumor-free (Saiki et al., 1986).  
L-MTP-PE induced antitumour activity in a liver metastasis model of colon cancer in the rat (Thomas 
et al., 1995). However, using more tumour cells, L-MTP-PE enhanced tumour growth (Ref. Wang et 
al., 1995). 
In a randomised study in dogs undergoing amputation for osteosarcoma, treatment with L-MTP-PE (2 
mg/m2, twice weekly/8 weeks) was associated with longer metastasis-free period and longer survival 
time compared to placebo liposomes (MacEwen et al., 1989). Similar results were observed when L-
MTP-PE  therapy  was  initiated  after  cisplatin  therapy  compared  to  placebo  liposomes,  but  not 
 13/49 
concurrently  (Kurzman  et  al.,  1995).    Concurrent  treatment  with  L-MTP-PE  (1-2  mg/m2  i.v.  twice 
weekly/8  weeks)  of  metastatic  splenic  hemangiosarcoma  after  splenectomy  with  chemotherapy 
(doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide)  prolongued  disease-free  survival  and  overall  survival  compared  to 
chemotherapy  plus  liposome  placebo  (Vail  et  al.,  1995).  Canine  monocytes  could  be  activated  to 
tumoricidal activity against canine osteosarcoma cells by L-MTP-PE in vitro and in vivo (Smith et al., 
1993). 
Treatment  with  L-MTP-PE  in cats  did  not   significantly  alter  either  disease free  interval  or  survival 
time (Fox et al., 1995)  
In vitro and in vivo studies in mice ( Fidler et al., 1989, Fogler et al., 1985, LeGrue et al., 1987) and 
dogs    (Kurzman  1999)  demonstrated  that  administration  of  L-MTP-PE  leads  to  activation  of 
macrophages  resulting  in  enhanced  cytotoxic  activity  against  a  variety  of  tumour  cells  (e.g. 
osteosarcoma) in vitro. Free and liposome encapsulated-MTP-PE activated murine (Gisler et al., 1982) 
and rat (Schroit et al., 1982) macrophages and spleen cells more efficiently than MDP in vitro and in 
vivo.  
Human monocytes activated in vitro with L-MTP-PE became cytotoxic for several tumour cell types 
but continued to ignore normal cells (Barna et al., 1984)  
NOD2  is  an  intracellular  protein  predominantly  expressed  in  cells  of  the  myeloid  lineage,  which  is 
able to induce NFκB activation and is implicated in innate immune defense against bacteria. NOD2 is 
a  receptor  for  MDP  (Girardin  et  al.,  2003,  Inohara  et  al.,  2003)  Preliminary  in  vitro  data  show  that 
MTP-PE  is  a  specific  ligand  of  NOD2  suggesting  that  macrophage  activation  by  L-MTP-PE  is  also 
mediated by NOD2.  
MDP  was  observed  to  bind  to  NALP3  (Martinon  F.  et  al.,  2004),  another  receptor  involved  in 
inflammatory  responses.  Activation  of  monocyte/macrophage  by  L-MTP-PE  was  associated  with 
secretion or transcription of a variety of cytokines, especially inflammatory cytokines (O’Reilly et al., 
1991,  Kurzman  et  al.,  1993,  Kleinerman  et  al.,  1992,  Maeda  et  al.,  1993)  such  as  TNFα  (Dieter  P., 
1995), IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6 (Fox, et al., 1994), and IL-8 (Asano T., 1994). 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In  vivo  MTP-PE  stimulated  rabbit  white  blood  cell  proliferation  (Wachsmuth  et  al.,  1988).  The 
proliferating monocytic cells were bone marrow-derived and migrated into tissue within 24 hours after 
MTP-PE  administration.  In  addition,  proliferation  in  the  epithelium  of  the  bile  ducts  and  esophagus 
was  also  stimulated.  Enhanced  proliferation  occurred  more  slowly  and  to  a  lesser  extent  in 
hepatocytes, hepatic interstitial cells, and renal epithelial cells, consistent with a regenerative process 
after  an  inflammatory  or  toxic  event.  Similar  cell  proliferations  were  observed  in  guinea  pigs 
(Wachsmuth et al., 1989) and humans.  
L-MTP-PE  administrated  before  irradiation  accelerated  hematopoietic  recovery  from  radiation-
induced damage in mice (Fedorocko et al 1994, Mackova et al., 1993, 1997, 2002), with a synergistic 
effect  with 
indomethacin.  Oral  administration  of  MTP-PE  prevented  doxorubicin-induced 
gastrointestinal toxicity in mice, preserving intestinal architecture (Killion et al., 1996) 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
In  one  rat  study  L-MTP-PE  caused  slight  but  significant  increases  in  urine  volume  and  electrolyte 
content (Buch, O. 1985). Liposomes at the high dose of 100 mg/kg induced a 50% increase of the very 
low density lipoprotein and the serum triglycerides, regardless of the presence of MTP-PE. Liver and 
total  body  weight  were  unaffected.  A  slight  increase  in  plasma  free  fatty  acid  levels  was  seen  with 
liposomes  alone.  Some  changes  in  carbohydrate  metabolism  (transient  increase  in  blood  glucose, 
modifications  in  tissue  glycogen)  after  L-MTP-PE  administration  attained  statistical  significance. 
There were no effects on liver enzyme by liposomes alone or L-MTP-PE (Muller, K. 1985; Albrecht, 
W. 1985). L-MTP-PE had no overt neurological or behavioural effects in mice or rats (Grewal et al., 
1985). 
On isolated atria preparation from guinea pigs, neither the frequency of spontaneous contraction nor 
the  force  of  electrically-driven  contraction  was  affected  by  L-MTP-PE.  L-MTP-PE  caused  marginal 
and  transient  blood  pressure  reduction  and  bradycardia  in  cats  (≥  0.04mg/kg  (~0.5mg/m2)  i.v.),  and 
only marginal changes in the QT intervals (highest dose 0.4mg/kg (~5mg/m2)). With both drug-loaded 
 14/49 
and  unloaded  liposomes,  50%  of  the  cats  presented  ventricular  extrasystoles,  but  the  number  of 
extrasystoles was increased in cats receiving L-MTP-PE. Some cats showed an increase in respiration 
rate and a moderate decrease in tidal volume.  
In a single dose toxicity study in dogs (20 mg/m2) prolongation of the PQ interval was observed in 2/4 
dogs (no effect on QT interval was seen). There were no adverse cardiovascular changes observed by 
ECG  following  3  or  6  month  repeat  dose  administration  in  dogs  (max  dose  respectively  0.1  mg/kg 
(2mg/m2) and 0.5  mg/kg (10 mg/m2)) and one month toxicity study in rabbits (max dose 0.1 mg/kg 
(1.2mg/m2)). 
There was no specific safety pharmacology study on the respiratory system in animals. 
L-MTP-PE had no overt neurological or behavioural effects in mice or rats. 
L-MTP-PE caused slight but significant increases in urine volume and electrolyte content in one rat 
study. 
High doses of liposomes increased male rat serum triglycerides and very low density lipoprotein, no 
effects of L-MTP-PE were observed on serum lipids and lipoprotein levels, and only slight changes in 
carbohydrate  metabolism  (transient  increase  followed  by  a  distinct  decrease  in  blood  glucose, 
modifications in tissue glycogen). 
No antagonism of acetylcholine, barium chloride, histamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, apomorphine or 
physostigmine by L-MTP-PE was observed. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
L-MTP-PE did not antagonize responses to acetylcholine, barium chloride, histamine, noradrenaline or 
serotonin  when  tested  on  isolated  tissue  preparations  responsive  to  these  agonists  (Buch,  O.,  1985) 
Administration of L-MTP-PE did not antagonize apomorphine-induced hypothermia or physostigmine 
lethality in mice (Grewal et al., 1985) 
Single or repeated doses of doxorubicin reduced the normal numbers of alveolar macrophages (AM) 
or peritoneal exudate macrophages (PEM) in mice. A reduction in the number of PEM was seen after 
i.p.  injection  of  L-MTP-PE.  1-2  weeks  after  the  last  doxorubicin  treatment  PEM  surviving  the 
administration  of  up  to  15  mg/kg  doxorubicin  were  found  to  become  tumoricidal  if  stimulated  with  
L-MTP-PE. 
Systemic  administration  of  L-MTP-PE  did  not  result  in  additive  toxicity  (measured  as  diminished 
blood  leukocyte  counts,  altered  leukocyte  differentials,  and  decreased  hematocrits)  compared  to 
chemotherapeutic treatment (ifosfamide (2.5 mg/kg), doxorubicin (10 mg/kg) or cisplatin (10 mg/kg)) 
and  did  not 
ifosfamide  and  doxorubicin.  The 
myelosuppression  normally  observed  following  treatment  with  doxorubicin  was  prevented  by 
combination treatment with L-MTP-PE. 
the  anti-tumour  effects  of 
interfere  with 
In  a  lung-metastatic  model,  L-MTP-PE,  cisplatin  or  cyclophosphamide,  alone  or  in  combination, 
significantly  reduced  the  number  of  pulmonary  metastases.  However  the  therapeutic  efficacy  of 
cisplatin seemed reduced by L-MTP-PE administration. 
In a murine ovarian tumour model, L-MTP-PE administration did not change the anti-tumour effect of 
cisplatin  (up  to  7.5  mg/kg).  In  addition  no  adverse  effect  on  the  effect  of  cisplatin  (70  mg/m2)  was 
observed in the dogs with osteosarcoma when L-MTP-PE was given concomitantly.  
Coadministration of doxorubicin with L-MTP-PE resulted in an enhanced canine monocyte activation 
and cytotoxicity compared to doxorubicin or L-MTP-PE alone. 
The  in  vitro  response  of  human  monocytes  to  2  µg/mL  L-MTP-PE  was  not  altered  by  prior  or 
simultaneous  incubation  with  5-  500  ng/mL  of  doxorubicin  (in  vitro).  Single-agent  chemotherapy 
consisting  of  cisplatin,  high  dose  methotrexate,  cyclophosphamide,  or  doxorubicin  given  to  patients 
before isolation of their monocytes did not interfere with the induction of tumoricidal activity by in 
vitro  treatment  with  L-MTP-PE.  To  some  extent,  enhanced  activation  was  observed  in  monocytes 
from  patients  following  the  administration  of  doxorubicin  or  cyclophosphamide.  However,  when 
patients  had  received  doxorubicin  and  cyclophosphamide  together  on  the  same  day,  profound 
 15/49 
suppression of in vitro activation was observed in 50% of the patients. This returned to normal by 3 
weeks post-combination therapy. 
Ibuprofen  at  dose  levels  of  40  µg/mL  suppressed  the  activation  and  the  generation  of  the  cytotoxic 
phenotype of monocytes in vitro. Low levels of ibuprofen (up to 10 µg/mL), added to co-culture of 
monocytes and tumour cells once the monocytes were activated did not interfere with tumour killing 
(Fujimaki et al., 1993). 
In a mouse tumour model repeated treatment of mice with diclofenac (i.p.) or with L-MTP-PE (i.v.) 
significantly  suppressed  tumour  growth  and  increased  the  percentage  of  surviving  mice.  However, 
these effects were lost when diclofenac and L-MTP-PE treatment was combined. 
Combined administration of indomethacin and L-MTP-PE prior to lethal irradiation protected 100% of 
the  C57BL/6  mice  from  death,  while  no  protection  was  seen  with  indomethacin  alone  and  80% 
protection was seen with L-MTP-PE (Fedorocko et al., 1996). 
An in vitro study of the metabolism of L-MTP-PE and MTP-PE by cytochrome P450 in human liver 
microsomes indicated that L-MTP-PE and MTP-PE did not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic data are derived from six studies, which were performed in the same four species 
(mice, rats, rabbits and dogs) that were used in most of the pharmacology and toxicology studies. The 
doses of L-MTP-PE investigated during the pharmacokinetic studies (in mice 1.2-4 mg/m2 or 0.4-1.25 
mg/kg, in rats 1.2-6 mg/m2 or 0.2-1 mg/kg, in rabbits 1.2 mg/m2 or 0.1 mg/kg, and in dogs 1-10 mg/m2 
or 0.05-0.5 mg/kg) were in the same order of  magnitude as the doses of L-MTP-PE identified as the 
NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level) in rabbits and dogs, i.e., 0.1 mg/kg, and as the dose used in 
the Phase III clinical trial (2-4 mg/m2). The applicant performed a single dose study both with MTP-
PE  and  L-MTP-PE  in  rats  and  dogs  (study  B56/1991).  This  study  revealed  that  L-MTP-PE  was 
extensively  distributed  to  organs  and  tissues,  whereas  MTP-PE  remained  much  more  in  the  central 
plasma compartment. 
−  Methods of analysis. 
Immunoassay 
Plasma and serum concentrations of unchanged MTP-PE were measured using a chemoluminescence 
immunoassay  (CLIA)  (Gay  et  al.,  1990,  Gay  et  al.,  1991).  The  CLIA  assay  was  used  to  assess 
concentrations of MTP-PE in rat and dog plasma samples (Gay et al., 1993) and human serum samples 
(Landmann et al., 1994). 
Radiometry 
Preclinical  animal  pharmacokinetics  investigations  were  mostly  performed  with  both  a  tritium  [3H] 
and  a  radio-carbon  [14C]-labelled MTP-PE  (Kocher,  1985; Wiegand,  et  al.,  1986).  Alternatively,  the 
fate  of  L-MTP-PE  was  followed by  labelling  the liposomes  with  67Gallium-deferoxamine (67Ga-DF) 
(Melissen et al., 1993)  
−  Absorption 
As L-MTP-PE is administered by i.v. route, bioavailability is complete. Pharmacokinetic parameters 
were  derived  following  single  and  repeated  dosing  of  L-MTP-PE.  Free  MTP-PE  was  measured. 
Intravenous  dosing  was  the  only  route  of  administration.  The  disposition  of  L-[3H]MTP-PE  was 
studied in mice (Fogler et al., 1985), the disposition of L-[14C]MTP-PE was studied in rats (Gay et al., 
1992; Wiegand et  al.,  1986),  rabbit  (Wiegand  et  al., 1986)  and  dog  (Gay  et  al.,  1992;  Gygax  et  al., 
1992).  Shortly after i.v. administration, L-MTP-PE was cleared very rapidly from the circulation. The 
concentration of radiolabel in plasma followed a biphasic decrease, with a slower decrease during a 
later elimination phase. 
In  one  study  in  dog,  the  mean  plasma  concentration-time  profiles  of  total  and  free  MTP-PE  were 
superimposable at a dose of 2 mg/m² of L-MTP-PE, indicating that no liposomal drug was present in 
the circulation (Gygax D., 1992). The fact that free MTP-PE could sometimes be measured indicates 
leaking  of  MTP-PE  from  liposomes  even  during  their  very  short  residence  time  in  the  blood.  In 
another study at doses of 1, 2 and 10 mg/m², plasma concentrations of total drug were higher than free 
drug, indicative the presence of liposomes in the circulation. Following administration of L-MTP-PE, 
 16/49 
Cmax1hour  and  AUC1-8h  for  both  free  and  total  drug  concentrations  were  consistent  with  a  dose-
proportional relationship. L-MTP-PE and MTP-PE were administered separately to rats and dog. The 
AUC of MTP-PE following L-MTP-PE, is 10 less or 100 less of AUC of MTP-PE following MTP-PE 
in rat and dog respectively. 
−  Distribution 
Distribution  of  L-MTP-PE  was  investigated  in  mice  in  two  studies  up  to  24  h  following  i.v. 
administration of L-[3H]MTP-PE and of MTP-PE in  67Ga-DF radiolabelled liposomes (Fogler et al., 
1985; Melissen et al., 1993). Organ-associated radioactivity indicated accumulation first in the lung, 
with  8%  of  the  injected  dose  localized  in  the  lung  5  minutes  after  administration.  The  liposomes 
distributed  mainly  in  the  liver  (30%  of  the  injected  dose)  and  spleen  (14-18%  of  the  injected  dose) 
over  the  2  hours  after  administration.  Investigation  of  the  cell  types  involved  in  the  uptake  of 
liposomes showed that, in the liver, 83% of the liposomes were taken up by the macrophages (Kupffer 
cells). In the spleen, liposomes were taken up mainly by macrophages and dendritic cells. 
The body distribution of L-MTP-PE was investigated in rats given intravenously L-[14C]MTP-PE or 
[3H]MTP-PE in 14C-labeled liposomes (Wiegand et al., 1984; Wiegand et al., 1986). Concentrations of 
the radiolabels were measured in organs after 5 and 30 minutes and 4, 6 and 24 hours. Radioactivity 
was distributed substantially to lung, spleen, liver and bone marrow. Radioactivity was rapidly cleared 
from  the  lung,  while  bone  marrow,  liver  and  spleen  displayed  a  somewhat  slower  clearance  of 
radioactivity. By 168 hours, low but significant residual  14C concentrations were found in all organs 
and tissues. 
−  Metabolism 
No  in  vitro  metabolism  related  experiments  were  submitted.  Metabolism  of  L-MTP-PE  was  studied 
only  in  mice.  When  metabolism  of  L-MTP-PE  was  studied  60  minutes  after  i.v.  injection  of  
L-MTP-PE, practically all MTP-PE was intact in liver extracts. This persisted up to 4 hours and was 
observed in lung and spleen. The major peak of radioactivity extracted from urine, however, was MDP 
(Fogler et al., 1985) 
−  Excretion 
The main route of excretion in rat, rabbit and dog for L-MTP-PE appeared to be urine. 
The excretion of L-MTP-PE in urine was followed over 24 hours after the injection in mice (Fogler et 
al., 1985). Ten % of the 3H label was excreted by 24 hours.  
The  disposition  of  L-[14C]MTP-PE  was  investigated  after  intravenous  administration  to  rats,  rabbits 
and dogs (Wiegand et al., 1984). In all species, excretion of radioactivity was incomplete and ranged 
between 70 and 85% of the dose by day 7, and was still ongoing after 7 days. Excretion of 14C in the 
urine, however, was faster in rats than in rabbits and dogs.  
No studies on excretion in milk were submitted. 
−  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies were submitted. 
−  Other pharmacokinetic studies 
In  Study  B33/1983  the  effect  of  liposome  size  on  distribution  to  tissues  and  organs  of  rats  was 
investigated. Liposomes larger than 5 micrometer showed high affinity to lung tissue. With decreasing 
size relatively more compound was distributed to liver and spleen. 
Toxicology 
A comprehensive panel of nonclinical toxicology studies was conducted in multiple species to assess 
the safety of L-MTP-PE or MTP-PE and to characterize any potential toxicity. Single dose and repeat-
dose studies were performed in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs. Teratogenic potential was investigated in 
rats and rabbits and mutagenicity was evaluated in an in vitro bacterial mutagenicity assay and in an in 
vivo  micronucleus  test  in  mice.  Detection  of  chromosomal  aberrations  in  mammalian  cells  was 
performed with the active agent, MTP-PE. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
 17/49 
Single dose toxicity studies were performed in three species: mouse, hamster and dog. Rodents were 
comparatively  insensitive  as  repeat  i.v.  doses  up  to  3,750  mg/m2  (1,250  mg/kg)  of  L-MTP-PE 
produced  no  mortality  or  overt  signs  of  toxicity  in  mice.  The  rabbit  and  dog  were  selected  as  the 
primary  species  for  toxicity  studies  based  on  preliminary  experiments,  which  indicated  that  both 
species were more sensitive to the test compound than rodents. In the dog, administration of 10 mg/m2 
of  L-MTP-PE  and  above  produced  severe  clinical  signs  and  death  within  24  hours  of  treatment, 
apparently  due  to  infarction  and  extensive  haemorrhage,  especially  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  
This lethal syndrome occurred only in dogs given single injections of material. Tachyphylaxis to the 
pro-inflammatory response was described for various serum cytokines and body temperature. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat dose studies were performed in five species: mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, and dogs. Most of 
the studies were conducted in accordance with GLP guidelines. 
In  the  mouse  studies,  L-MTP-PE  at  10  mg/kg  (30  mg/m2)  was  administered  intravenously  for  five 
consecutive  days  or  twice  weekly  for  one  month.    There  was  no  treatment  related  mortality  in  the 
animals  injected  for  5  days,  although  weight  gains  during  treatment  were  minimal  in  males.  There 
were  no  signs  of  toxicity  during  treatment  or  gross  pathology  at  the  time  of  necropsy  with  either 
dosage regimen. 
In  the  rats  studies,  daily  administration  of  0.1  to  1  mg/kg  (0.6  to  6  mg/m2)  of  L-MTP-PE  for  two 
weeks  did  not  show  any  sign  of  toxicity.  Signs  of  pharmacological  action  were  apparent  in  blood 
chemistry.  
When guinea pigs were administered 0.1 to 25 mg/kg (2 to 500 mg/m2) of LMTP-PE twice weekly for 
four weeks all animals receiving 25 mg/kg were dead by 17 days after the start of treatment. Guinea 
pigs receiving 5 mg/kg or higher exhibited a febrile reaction and lost body weight. 
Rabbits  were  administered  intravenous  doses  of  0.001,  0.01,  and  0.1  mg/kg  (0.012,  0.12  or  1.2 
mg/m2),  respectively)  for  one  month.  L-MTP-PE  was  tolerated  at  all  dose  levels  without  mortality. 
Gross and histopathologic changes occurred predominantly in the lungs, spleen, bone marrow, heart, 
and  at  injection  sites.  The  changes  in  the  lung,  spleen  and  bone  marrow  were  predominantly  of  an 
inflammatory  nature,  featuring  infiltration/accumulation  of  leukocytes/macrophages  around  blood 
vessels,  which  is  probably  compatible  with  the  macrophage-activating  properties  of  LMTP-PE. 
However,  intimal  thickening  and/or  thrombus  formation  in  pulmonary  arteries  was  prominent  in 
intermediate and high dose groups, although a tendency toward reversibility was observed at the end 
of  the  one  month  recovery  period.  It  was  concluded  that  the  pulmonary  arterial  lesions  were  of 
uncertain  etiology  in  rabbits  that  also  have  a  background  of  spontaneous  nodular  pneumonitis  and 
therefore  the  no-toxic-effect  dose  of  the  liposome-encapsulated  material  was  considered  to  be  0.1 
mg/kg. In the six month study, the treatment was tolerated without compound-related mortality and no 
salient changes in clinical or laboratory examinations up to and including a daily dose of 0.5 mg/kg. 
However,  taking  into  account  technical  problems  with  administration  and  an  infection  with 
Encephalitozoon cuniculi, only 10 animals without any complications in total remained suitable for the 
purpose of the study. Due to technical and health problems, the objective of the study was not met. 
Regarding the repeat dose studies performed in dogs, five subacute tolerance studies were initiated to 
test the various dosage regimens. Daily doses of 0.5 mg/kg (10 mg/m2) were injected for 5 consecutive 
days, or twice or 5 times a week for 4 weeks. A daily dose of 0.1 mg/kg (2 mg/m2) administered 5 
times  per  week  for  a  month  was  also  studied.  Results  from  these  studies  indicate  that  the  toxicity 
related to multiple doses of 0.5 mg/kg was mild and centered around slight to moderate aberrations of 
haematology  and  clinical  chemistry.  Clinical  signs  were  minimal  and  highly  variable  but  included 
sporadic emesis, diarrhea, and pyrexia. The most prevalent clinical laboratory changes following one 
month  dosing  included  slightly  reduced  erythrocytic  parameters,  leukocytosis  often  associated  with 
neutrophilia  or  monocytosis,  transient  thrombocytopenia,  slight  hypokalemia,  and  increases  in  total 
serum  globulin and  cholesterol.  Histopathological  changes  were  minor  and inconsistent,  and  arterial 
proliferative lesions were only present in one instance. Daily repeated doses of 0.1 mg/kg produced 
only minor fluctuations and this dose was essentially a no-observed-adverse-effect level. 
The 3-month toxicity study conducted in dogs with intravenous doses of 0.001, 0.01, and 0.1 mg/kg, 
respectively (0.02, 0.2 or 2  mg/m2) confirmed the results observed in the tolerance studies. Adverse 
 18/49 
effects  were  minimal.  Slight  decreases  in  albumins,  increases  in  alpha-  and  beta  and  decreases  in 
gamma-globulins, and slight leukocytosis were the only significant changes observed. There were no 
relevant gross or histological changes. 
In 6-month pivotal study performed in dogs, overall, dogs in the 0.5 mg/kg (10 mg/m2) group showed 
signs  of  pronounced  inflammatory  response  manifested  as  synovitis,  pericarditis,  inflammatory 
necrosis of the liver and vascular lesions accompanied by alteration and enlargement of lymph nodes. 
Considerable inter-individual differences were apparent in all these effects, which are probably a result 
of  exaggerated  pharmacological  activity  of  the  compound.  Alterations  related  to  this  biological 
activity  such  as  increased levels  of  C-reactive  protein  and  fibrinogen  and  changes  in  the  number  of 
leukocytes  were  seen  at  all  dose  levels.  The  mild  inflammatory  response  seen  in  the  liver  of  some 
animals  of  the  0.1  mg/kg  (2  mg/m2)  group  is  also  considered  a  reflection  of  the  pharmacological 
activity since necrotic reactions were not apparent. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The genotoxic potential of L-MTP-PE has been evaluated in in vitro and in vivo studies. L-MTP-PE 
was not a mutagen (data not shown). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies were not submitted based on the applicant’s justification that L-MTP-PE will 
be  administered  in  conjunction  with  combination  chemotherapy  known  to  cause  second  malignancy 
(AML/MDS) in a proportion of patients. The applicant also claimed that L-MTP-PE does not present a 
known  close  chemical  analogue  with  carcinogenic  compounds  and  did  not  give  rise  to  suspicious 
changes during the long-term toxicological and mutagenic-potential tests. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No  studies  have  been  submitted  to  assess  the  impact  of  L-MTP-PE  on  reproductive  function.  The 
applicant  justification  was  that  L-MTP-PE  is  being  developed  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  patients 
receiving chemotherapy including chemotherapy drugs reported to cause effects on fertility as well as 
foetal  death  and/or  congenital  anomalies.  The  applicant  also  pointed  out  that  there  were  no  results 
from repeat dose studies that suggested potential harmful effects which might lead to impairment of 
male or female reproductive function. 
Reproductive effects were noted in developmental toxicity studies in rats and rabbits. No indication of 
treatment  related  embryo-foetal  toxicity  or  teratogenicity  was  observed  in  rats  at  doses  up  to  0.8 
mg/kg. In rabbits, there was an apparent association with growth retardation at doses beginning at 0.5 
mg/kg. An increased incidence of abnormally ossified vertebrae was found. Skeletal examination also 
revealed slightly retarded ossification. A treatment-related reduction in food intake and maternal and 
foetal  body  weight  gain  was  observed  in  another  rabbit  study.  No  treatment  related  external  foetal 
abnormalities were found.  
Globally,  the  low  dose  level  of  0.1  mg/kg  caused  slight  maternal  toxicity,  characterised  by  minor 
effects  on  body  weight  gain  and  food  consumption  during  the  first  6  days  of  treatment  only.  Only 
equivocal  effects  were  seen  at  0.2  mg/kg,  but  no  definite  conclusions  regarding  the  no  observable 
effect level could be made owing to the small group sizes used. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data were submitted, mainly based on one study. Free and total concentrations of MTP-
PE  in  plasma  of  beagle  dogs  have  been  measured  on  day  1,  86  and  178  during  the  repeated  daily 
administration of 0.05, 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg of L-MTP-PE for 6 months. Free and total AUC’s of MTP-
PE were consistent with a dose proportional relationship and have comparable values between day 1, 
86, 178.  
Exposure tended to be higher in rats than in dogs when given comparable doses. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  was  assessed  in  the  single  and  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  L-MTP-PE  was  well 
tolerated following i.v. administration. 
A non-GLP study was performed to investigate the skin sensitizing (contact allergenic) potency of  
 19/49 
L-MTP-PE in albino guinea pig (Maurer, et al., 1987) No differences between the test groups and the 
vehicle  treated  controls  (saline)  were  seen,  after  intradermal  challenge  application  of  L-MTP-PE. 
Additionally, there were no reactions suggestive of allergic or hypersensitivity reactions in the clinical 
trials. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Assessment of sensitization potential was performed in guinea pigs. There was no difference between 
L-MTP-PE  groups  and  control.  Additionally,  there  were  no  reactions  suggestive  of  allergic  or 
hypersensitivity reactions in the clinical trials. 
Complementary  non-GLP  experiments  (Study  20  and  21)  were  performed  to  evaluate  the  potential 
negative  interactions  that  could  occur  in  the  simultaneous  use  of  L-MTP-PE  and  chemotherapeutic 
drugs, especially with respect to enhancing hematologic toxicity of the chemotherapy agents. (Killion 
et al., 1992). According to the applicant, these studies showed that the intravenous administration of 
L-MTP-PE did not enhance the myelosuppressive and toxic effects of the chemotherapy drugs. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant submitted an environmental risk assessment and justified that MEPACT does not pose a 
significant environmental risk. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  number  of  published  studies  where  MTP-PE  was  associated  with 
monocytes and macrophages activation in vitro and in vivo. Systemic treatment with L-MTP-PE was 
tested in several tumour metastasis models in rodents. Trials of L-MTP-PE as adjuvant treatment have 
also been performed in dogs and cats. The treatment was variably effective in delaying tumour growth 
and  enhancing  animal  survival.  The  exact  mechanism  by  which  MEPACT  activation  of  monocytes 
and  macrophages  leads  to  antitumour  activity  in  animals  and  humans  is  not  yet  known.  Adequate 
information on the pharmacodynamic properties of MEPACT is provided in the SPC (see section 5.1) 
Only the toxicology studies, which investigated QT intervals, included a GLP statement. This lack of 
GLP  statement  for  the  safety  pharmacology  studies  is  acceptable  since  several  aspects  of  safety 
pharmacology have been assessed in GLP-compliant toxicology studies. 
Only limited/marginal effects of L-MTP-PE on the cardiovascular system (prologation of PQ interval) 
and no effects on CNS have been observed. Some effects on the respiratory system have been noted. A 
moderate  increase  in  respiration  rate  and  reduced  tidal  volume  were  observed  in  anesthetized  cats, 
transient  irregular  respiration  was  seen  in  rabbits  and  panting  and  an  occasional  respiratory  distress 
was observed in dogs.  
Respiratory  distress  has  been  mentioned  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC.  However  the  aetiology  of  this 
phenomenon is not known. 
In  general  no  adverse  effects  of  L-MTP-PE  treatment  on  efficacy  of  chemotherapeutic  agents  were 
observed.  It  may  be  possible  to  combine  L-MTP-PE  with  doxorubicin,  cisplatin,  methotrexate,  or 
cyclophosphamide  as  single  agents.  In  contrast,  a  combination  of  chemotherapeutic  agents  (such  as 
doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide) may suppress L-MTP-PE induced activation of monocytes. From 
these  data  is  appears  that  doxorubicin  is  the  preferred  chemotherapeutic  agent  for  a  combination 
therapy  with  L-MTP-PE  because  doxorubicin  even  slightly  enhanced  the  L-MTP-PE  induced 
activation of human monocytes.  
Ibuprofen does not seem to interfere with the efficacy of L-MTP-PE only in low doses. No studies on 
potential interactions with other relevant drugs prescribed during chemotherapeutic treatment such as 
corticosteroids or (other) anti-emetics have been presented.    
L-MTP-PE  was  developed  in  order  to  increase  the  distribution  of  MTP-PE  to  organs  and  tissues.  
L-MTP-PE indeed significantly increased distribution to organs and tissues thereby making L-MTP-
PE a more appropriate formulation than MTP-PE. 
Pharmacokinetics of L-MTP-PE were studied both by means of radiolabelled material (14C and 3H) 
and cold material. L-MTP-PE was rapidly cleared from the central plasma compartment into tissues 
and  organs.  Distribution  was  mainly  into  lung,  liver  and  spleen.  There  was  no  indication  that 
 20/49 
accumulation in plasma would take place. It is however, reasonable to assume that accumulation will 
take  place  in  tissues  and  organs.  Data  on  kinetics  in  pregnant  and  nursing  animals  were  lacking. 
Plasma protein binding was not studied but it is reasonable to assume that it will be low. 
Metabolism was only studied in mice. In liver tissue practically all MTP-PE was intact in liver extracts 
up  to  4  hours  and  was  also  observed  in  lung  and  spleen.  The  major  peak  of  radioactivity  extracted 
from urine, however, was MDP.  
Excretion mass balances were incomplete, most probably due to the use of inappropriate radiolabels. 
The main route of excretion in rat, rabbit and dog for L-MTP-PE related material appeared to be urine. 
Excretion in milk was not studied. 
In sensitive species (rabbit and dog) the highest daily dose of liposomal mifamurtide that did not cause 
adverse effects was 0.1 mg/kg, corresponding to 1.2 and 2 mg/m2, respectively. The no-adverse-effect 
level for MEPACT in animals corresponds roughly to the 2 mg/m2 recommend dose for humans. 
Data  from  a  six  month  dog  study  of  daily  intravenous  injections  of  up  to  0.5  mg/kg  (10  mg/m2) 
MEPACT  provide  an  8-  to  19-fold  cumulative  exposure  safety  margin  for  overt  toxicity  for  the 
intended clinical dose in humans. Major toxic effects associated with these high daily and cumulative 
doses  of  MEPACT  were  mainly  exaggerated  pharmacological  effects:  pyrexia,  signs  of  pronounced 
inflammatory  response  manifested  as  synovitis,  bronchopneumonia,  pericarditis  and  inflammatory 
necrosis  of  the  liver  and  bone  marrow.  The  following  events  were  also  observed:  haemorrhage  and 
prolongation  of  coagulation  times,  infarcts,  morphological  changes  in  the  wall  of  small  arteries, 
oedema and congestion of the central nervous system, minor cardiac effects, and slight hyponatraemia. 
MEPACT  was  not  mutagenic and  did  not  cause teratogenic  effects in rats  and rabbits.  Embryotoxic 
effects were observed only at maternal toxic levels. 
There were no results from general toxicity studies that suggested harmful effects on male or female 
reproductive  organs.  Specific  studies  addressing  reproductive  function,  perinatal  toxicity  and 
carcinogenic potential have not been performed.  
MEPACT does not appear to be a significant environmental concern because the estimated amount of 
MTP-PE  to  be  release  in  the  environment  by  each  patient  following  use  of  the  product  is  low,  and 
because  of  the  rarity  of  the  condition.  The  main  route  of  release  will  be  waste  water,  and  the 
PECsurface  water  for  MEPACT  was  well  below  the  threshold  of  the  CHMP  guideline  for  Phase  I 
Assessment.  
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  main  study  of  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  was  INT-0133,  a  randomised  clinical  trial.  The 
applicant also submitted 11 phase I studies on PK, PD, safety and efficacy of L-MTP-PE in several 
concentrations in cancer patients. Also 7 phase II studies were submitted. These studies investigated 
the  activity  of  different  regimens  of  L-MTP-PE  in  patients  with  metastatic  disease.  Pharmacology 
results are taken from a total of eight studies in cancer patients (see Table 1). 
Table 1. Listing of clinical studies with pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data. 
Study ID 
Phase 
Patients 
No. 
patients 
Dose, regimen, duration 
01 
02 
03 
07 
08 
I 
I 
I 
I 
II 
Metastatic cancer 
38 
Metastatic cancer 
32 (4 PK) 
Metastatic cancer 
Adv malignant 
melanoma 
Relapsed 
osteosarcoma 
48 
30 
33 
 21/49 
inf 
twice 
0.01-6  mg/m2 1h inf twice weekly 
4 weeks 
0.01-12  mg/m2  1h 
weekly 9 weeks 
0.05-9  mg/m2  1h  inf  once  weekly 
12 weeks 
1  or  4  mg  1h  inf  once  weekly  for 
12 weeks 
2  mg/m2  1h 
weekly; 3-months 
infusion; 
twice 
 
 
 
 
II 
II 
I 
II 
II 
I 
Resectable melanoma 
high risk relapse 
Relapsed 
osteosarcoma 
Advanced metastatic 
NSCLC inoperable, 
recurrent,metastatic 
Resected Dukes’C 
colon adenocarcinoma 
Metastatic recurrent 
colon carcinoma 
09 
10 
BR/MA1 
BR/MA2 
BR/MB1 
BR/MC1 
GCP 
20 
2  mg/m2  (titration  up  to  2  mg/m2 
+2  mg)  1h  inf;  twice  weekly  12 
weeks  followed  once  weekly  12 
weeks. 
2 mg/m2 1h inf twice weekly for 4 
weeks  before  resection  and  8 
weeks  after  then  12  weeks  once 
weekly 
2  mg/m2  (titration  up  to  2  mg/m2 
+2  mg)  1h  inf;  twice  weekly  12 
weeks  followed  once  weekly  12 
weeks.  +  IFOS  1.8  mg/m2  or 
Cisplatin 120 mg/ m2   
14 (14 PK)  4 mg 30 min inf, twice weekly 12 
12 
12 
32 
24 
weeks  
1, 2, 4 mg 30 min inf, once weekly 
12 weeks  
0.25,  1,  4  mg  30  min  inf  once 
weekly 24 weeks  
0.25, 1, 4 mg 30 min inf, 13 weeks 
+ 5-FU 370 mg/m2 and leucovorin 
200  mg/m2  for  5  days  every  4 
weeks  
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
The CHMP requested a GCP inspection of trial INT-0133. No critical findings were observed and the 
overall compliance to current GCP standards was considered sufficient (see also discussion on clinical 
efficacy). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The information on the pharmacokinetics of L-MTP-PE submitted by the applicant was mainly based 
on  biodistribution data from 4 patients (study 02) and serum concentrations from 14 cancer patients at 
a dose of 4 mg administered twice weekly (study BR/AM 1).  
Study  02  was  a  single-center,  open-label  trial  in  adult  patients  with  metastatic  cancer  refractory  to 
standard therapy who had an estimated life expectancy of at least 12 weeks. The objectives were to 
determine the tolerability, immunomodulatory effects, antitumor activity of L-MTP-PE and, in select 
patients,  the  biodistribution  of  99mTc-labeled  L-MTP-PE,  in  patients  with  advanced  metastatic 
malignancies. Thirty-two (32) patients were enrolled in the study, 21 males and 11 females with age 
ranging  from  18  to  71  year  (mean  51.4  years).  The  majority  of  patients  had  tumours  of  the 
gastrointestinal  tract.  Twenty  patients  completed  the  study  and  12  were  prematurely  discontinued, 
primarily for reasons of unsatisfactory therapeutic response (progressive disease). Only four patients 
who  had  been  infused  with  1  mg  of  99mTc-labeled  L-MTP-PE  either  several  days  before  infusion 
with 6 mg/m2 of unlabeled L-MTP-PE or co-administered with unlabeled L-MTP-PE for a total dose 
of  6  mg/m2  provided  blood  samples  for  the  assessment  of  biodistribution.    Blood  samples  were 
collected at the completion of infusion of L-MTP-PE (time 0) and at 1, 5, 10, 15, 30, 60, 120, and 240 
minutes and 24 hours after injection. To assess biodistribution, total body images were obtained at 2, 
6, and 24 hours following injection of 99mTc-labeled L-MTP-PE using a dual-headed gamma camera. 
Static spot images of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis in anterior and posterior views were obtained at 
the same imaging time slots as the total body images.  
Study BR/MA 1 was of open and non-comparative design. The initial objective was to evaluate serum 
concentration-time  profiles  of  free  and  total  L-MTP-PE  in  patients  with  advanced  metastatic  cancer 
given  repeated  intravenous  infusions  of  4  mg  of  L-MTP-PE  using  serum  remaining  after  the 
determination of serologic parameters. Patients with advanced metastatic cancers received 4 mg of L-
 22/49 
MTP-PE infused i.v. over 30 minutes twice weekly for 12 weeks. Blood samples were collected just 
before  the  start  of  infusion  (hour  0)  and  0.5,  2,  4,  6,  24,  and  72  hours  after  the  start  of  infusion. 
Additional  samples  were  collected  at  various  intervals  between  week  4  and  week  12.  Free  drug 
concentrations were measured before disruption of the liposomes and total drug concentrations were 
measured after the release of MTP-PE from the disrupted liposomes. Serum concentrations of free and 
total MTP-PE were measured by an immunoassay that had a limit of quantitation of 0.1 nmol/l for free 
drug  and  1.0  nmol/l  for  total  drug.  Within-assay  and  between-assay  variations  were  in  the  range  of 
1.4%  to  20.6%  and  recoveries  were  between  92.5%  and  113.7%.  Samples  were  analyzed  for  14 
patients, 7 males and 7 females with a mean age of 54.6 years (range 30 to 69 years).  
•  Absorption  
MEPACT  is  lyophilisate  for  suspension  for  injection.  Therefore,  bioavailability  is  per  definition 
100%. 
•  Distribution 
In  study  02,  at  6  hours  after  injection  of  99mTc-labeled  liposomes  containing  1  mg  MTP-PE, 
radioactivity  was  found  in  liver,  spleen,  nasopharynx,  thyroid,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  in  lung.  This 
radioactivity partially cleared by 24 hours. In 2 of the 4 patients, lung metastases were also observed. 
Plasma elimination of 99mTc-labeled L-MTP-PE was biphasic with an elimination half-life of 15 ± 9 
min  and  18  ±  2h  for  the  initial  and  terminal  phases,  respectively.  Elimination  of  radioactivity  was 
similar in plasma and red blood cells. 
•  Elimination 
In  study  BR/MA  1,  after infusion,  total  and  free  serum  concentrations  declined to  values  below  the 
limit of quantitation within 24 hours. Serum concentration-time curves of free drug were lower than 
those  of  total  drug,  indicating  the  presence  of  liposomes  in  circulation.  Mean  serum  concentrations 
measured  at  the  end  of  the  first  infusion  (C0.5h)  were  8.5  ±  6.9  nmol/l  for  total  drug  and  2.0  ±  0.8 
nmol/l for free drug. Mean AUC values of the free drug after the first and last infusion were similar. 
 23/49 
Figure  1  Mean  serum  concentration-time  (hours)  profiles  of  total  and  free  MTP-PE  after  the 
first (week 1) and the last (week 11 or 12) intravenous infusion during 30 min  of 4 mg L-MTP-
PE (means of 7 to 9 patients, study BR/MA 1).  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Pharmacokinetics  of  L-MTP-PE  have  been  measured  only  at  a  dose  of  4  mg,  which  is  somewhat 
higher  than  the  proposed  dose  of  2  mg/m2.  Mean  serum  concentration-time  curves  of  total  and  free 
MTP-PE after the first infusion on day 1 and after the last infusion during either week 11 or week 12 
were comparable (Figure 1). 
•  Special populations 
None of the intrinsic or extrinsic factors have been analysed for the pharmacokinetics of L-MTP-PE. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal interaction studies have been performed with MEPACT and other medicinal products. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No studies submitted. 
 24/49 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Immunomodulatory effects of L-MTP-PE were investigated in 11 phase I/II studies.  
Liposomal MTP-PE is selectively taken up by macrophages and monocytes and slowly broken down 
within the cell. Cellular released L-MTP-PE may signal through the NOD2 receptor, an intracellular 
protein  that  induces  NF-κB  activation  and  is  implicated  in  innate  immune  defense  against  bacteria 
(Nardin et al. 2006).  
Immunomodulatory effects of L-MTP-PE were investigated in 11 phase I/II studies. MTP-PE induced 
TNFα, IL-6, CRP and neopterin (usually early) during the treatment of most patients. According to the 
applicant, the observed induction was consistent with activation of macrophages by L-MTP-PE. The 
extent of induction varied greatly between patients and between studies e.g. mean maximal induction 
of  IL-6  varied  between  3-  and  90-fold.  According  to  the  applicant,  this  may  to  some  extent  be 
explained  that  many  of  these  assays  were  variable  and  not  validated  at  the  time  these  studies  were 
performed.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Effect of L-MTP-PE dose (0.01 – 12 mg/m2) on immunodulatory effects were investigated in studies 
01, 02, 03, 07, BR/MA2, BR/MB1 and BR/MC1 in patients with various forms of metastatic disease 
(Table 3). In general, MTP-PE administered at doses <0.25 mg/m2 resulted in less induction of TNFα, 
IL-6 , and IL-1 (02, BR/MB1, BR/MC1). There was considerable variability between studies but there 
was  a  trend  that  the rise  in  CRP  levels  increases  with  higher  dose.  In  osteosarcoma  patients  treated 
with 2 mg/m2 L-MTP-PE, CRP was elevated in all patients at 24 hours and elevations in CRP could be 
detected  throughout  the  treatment  course  (study  08), (Kleinerman  et  al.,  1992) whereas  in  study  10, 
only  in  4/10  patients  CRP  was  increased  after  the  first  administration  (Kleinerman  et  al.,  1995).  At 
doses>1 mg/m2 L-MTP-PE mean CRP levels were induced > 2-fold of the baseline. 
Table  2.  Mean  %  change from  baseline  CRP  24h after  the first  administration of  L-MTP-PE, 
dose dependency 
Study 
01 
Baseline 
CRP 
Dose 
0.01-0.25 
mg/m2 
0.4-1.8 
mg/m2 
2-4 mg/m2 
2-6 mg/m2 
22# 
-6 ± 56 
N=8 
29 ± 136 
N=6 
50 ± 54 
N=8 
02 
5 
141 ±323 
N=2 
99 ± 186 
N=5 
444 ± 589 
N=8 
246 ± 283 
N=2 
BR/MA2 
(1,2, 4 mg) 
BR/MB1 
(0.25,1,4 mg) 
BR/MBC1 
(0.25,1,4 mg) 
7 
-5 ± 20 
N=2 (1 mg) 
147 ± 329 
N=5 (2 mg) 
221 ± 325 
N=4 
0.6 
501 
N=6 
573 
N=12 
376 
N=13 
2 
40 
N=4 
319 
N=4 
1081 
N=10 
#. Baseline value for CRP was very high in study 01, in healthy subjects CRP levels are approximately 1 mg/dl. 
Changes from baseline MTA 24h after the first administration of L-MTP-PE are shown in Table 3. In 
study 01, approximately half of the patients showed increases in MTA. The increase in activity was 
seen  largely  at  doses  less  than  2  mg/m2  whereas  in  patients  who  received  2  to  6  mg/m2,  and 
particularly in the patients treated at 6 mg/ m2, no effect on MTA was seen. MTA values in healthy 
volunteers  were  <  10%.  At  high  baseline  MTA  values  >35%  (study  02  and  BRMA1),  MTA  values 
decreased  following  L-MTP-PE  infusion.  Also  in  study  BR/MA1,  MTA  declined  during  treatment 
with 4 mg L-MTP-PE in the 5 patients with initially high MTA(55±4%), whereas the 9 patients with 
initial low MTA (2 ±3%) showed a small, transient increase in MTA after the first administration of L-
MTP-PE (Landmann et al., 1994). Highest MTA values were observed in week 4 in this study and in 
study 07 in weeks 5 to 7. In study 08, all except 1 patient had baseline value <10% cytotoxicity. 8/10 
patients  showed  an  increase  in  the  absolute  percent  cytotoxicity  value  of  more  than  10%  (12%  to 
 25/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48%)(Kleinerman  et  al.  1992).  In  study  09,  in  9  out of  18  patients  MTA increased  more  than  10%, 
which was correlated with clinical status (Fujimaki et al., 1993).  
Table 3. Mean % change from baseline MTA 24 hours after the first administration of L-MTP-
PE, dose dependency 
Study 
Baseline 
MTA( %) $ 
Dose 
0.01-0.25 mg/m2 
0.4-1.8 mg/m2 
2-4 mg/m2 
2-6 mg/m2 
6-12 mg/m2 
01 
21 
93 ± 219 
N=4 
31 ± 87 
N=11 
-24 ± 57 
N=5 
02 
* 
182 ± 387 
N=6 
44 ± 139 
N=8 
15 ± 150 
N=4 
03 
33 
63 ±101 
N=8 
545 ±1214 
N=6 
-58 ±24 
N=3 
45 ± 138 
22 ± 118 
07 
(1, 4 mg) 
19 
52# 
N=7 
11# 
N=7 
$Baseline MTA values for cancer patients were higher than reported for healthy controls(<10%) 
* Baseline MTA value was different for the 4 dose groups: 11, 22, 30 and 41 from low to high L-MTP-PE. 
#A higher increase in MTA was observed after 5 to 7 weeks. At both 1 and 4 mg MTA activity doubled from 
18% baseline to 36% 24h post-dose. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
After  intravenous  administration  in  21  healthy  adult  subjects  mifamurtide  was  cleared  rapidly  from 
plasma  (minutes),  resulting  in  a  very  low  plasma  concentration  of  total  (liposomal  and  free) 
mifamurtide. The mean AUC was 17.0 +/- 4.71 h x nM and Cmax was 15.7 +/- 3.72 nM. In separate 
study  in  14  patients,  mean  serum  concentration-time  curves  of  total  and  free  mifamurtide  that  were 
assessed after the first infusion of MEPACT and after a last infusion 11 or 12 weeks later, were almost 
superimposable and the mean AUC values of the free mifamurtide after the first and last infusion were 
similar. These data indicate that neither total nor free mifamurtide accumulated during the treatment 
period (see SPC section 5.2). 
At 6 hours after injection of radiolabelled liposomes containing 6 mg mifamurtide, radioactivity was 
found  in  liver,  spleen,  nasopharynx,  thyroid,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  in  lung.  The  liposomes  were 
phagocytosed  by  cells  of  the  reticuloendothelial  system.  In  2  of  4  patients  with  lung  metastases, 
radioactivity  was  associated  with  lung  metastases.  Mean  half-life  of  radiolabelled  material  was 
biphasic with an α phase of about 15 minutes and a terminal half-life of approximately 18 hours (see 
SPC section 5.2). 
MEPACT  is  contraindicated  in  case  of  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance  or  to  any  of  the 
excipients.  MEPACT  is  also  contraindicated  in  case  of  concurrent  use  with  ciclosporin  or  other 
calcineurin inhibitors (see SPC section 4.5), or in case of concurrent use with high-dose non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory  drugs  (NSAIDs,  cyclooxygenase 
inhibitors)  (see  SPC  section  4.5).  The 
contraindications are adequately reflected in the SPC. (See SPC section 4.3). 
No  PK/PD  studies  with  MEPACT  have  been  performed  in  the  target  population.  The  applicant  has 
committed to provide a final clinical study report of a clinical trial including PK/PD data obtained in 
the target population from the ongoing MTP-OS-403 study as a follow-up measure. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  mifamurtide  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  have  not  been 
formally studied. Caution should be used in these patients because dose adjustment information is not 
available. Continued monitoring of the kidney and liver function is recommended if MEPACT is used 
beyond  completion  of  chemotherapy  until  all  therapy  is  completed.  (See  SPC  section  4.2).  The 
applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  a  clinical  study  to  assess  the  PK  of  MEPACT  in  patients  with 
renal or hepatic impairment as a follow-up measure. 
Interactions with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction are adequately described in 
the SPC (see SPC section 4.5).  
 26/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limited  studies  of  the  interaction  of  MEPACT  with  chemotherapy  have  been  conducted.  Although 
these studies are not conclusive, there is no evidence of interference of MEPACT with the anti-tumour 
effects of chemotherapy and vice versa  
It  is  recommended  to  separate  the  administration  times  of  MEPACT  and  doxorubicin  or  other 
lipophilic medicinal products if used in the same chemotherapy regimen.  
The use of MEPACT concurrently with ciclosporin or other calcineurin inhibitors is contraindicated 
due  to  their  hypothesised  effect  on  splenic  macrophages  and  mononuclear  phagocytic  function  (see 
section 4.3).  
Also, it has been demonstrated in vitro that high-dose NSAIDs (cyclooxygenase inhibitors) can block 
the macrophage activating effect of liposomal mifamurtide. Therefore the use of high-dose NSAIDs is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Because  mifamurtide  acts  through  stimulation  of  the  immune  system,  the  chronic  or  routine  use  of 
corticosteroids should be avoided during treatment with MEPACT. 
In  vitro  interaction  studies  showed  that liposomal  and  non-liposomal  mifamurtide  do  not  inhibit the 
metabolic  activity  of  cytochrome  P450  in  pooled  human  liver  microsomes.  Liposomal  and 
non-liposomal  mifamurtide  do  not  induce  the  metabolic  activity  or  the  transcription  of  cytochrome 
P450  in  primary  cultures  of  freshly  isolated  human  hepatocytes.    Mifamurtide  is  therefore  not 
expected to interact with the metabolism of substances that are hepatic cytochrome P450 substrates. 
In a large controlled randomised study, MEPACT used at the recommended dose and schedule with 
other  medicinal  products  that  have  known  renal  (cisplatin,  ifosfamide)  or  hepatic  (high-dose 
methotrexate, ifosfamide) toxicities did not exacerbate those toxicities and there was no need to adjust 
mifamurtide dose. 
From  the  pharmacodynamic  data  presented,  L-MTP-PE  administration  was  fairly  consistently 
associated  with  induction of  TNFα,  IL-6,  CRP  and  neopterin  and  macrophage  tumouricidal  activity 
(MTA). These effects are consistent with activation of macrophages. No increase in MTA values was 
observed  at  L-MTP-PE  doses  above  2  mg/m2,  although  the  results  should  be  interpreted  with  care 
because  of  high  baseline  levels.  From  the  data  presented,  the  optimal  biological  dose  cannot  be 
determined. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study(ies) 
Two  phase  II  studies  were  submitted.  Study  08  and  (1988-1992)  included  33  osteosarcoma  patients 
that  developed  or  retained  metastases  despite  chemotherapy,  after  primary  tumour  resection 
(Kleinerman  et  al.,  1995).  A  historical  comparison  of  efficacy  endpoints  was  presented  (data  not 
shown). 
Protocol 10 (1991-1992) included 12 osteosarcoma patients with persisting or developing metastases 
after  or  during  chemotherapy  (cisplatin  or  ifosfamide),  after  primary  tumor  resection.  Protocol  10 
studied  the  adverse  events  induced  by  L-MTP-PE  when  given  in  combination  with  cisplatin  or 
ifosfamide only (data not shown). No efficacy parameters were analysed. 
•  Main study 
The  main  efficacy  study  submitted  was  a  phase  III  intergroup  trial  of  doxorubicin,  cisplatin  and 
methotrexate  with  and  without  ifosfamide,  with  and  without  muramyl  tripeptide  phosphatidyl 
ethanolamine (MTP-PE) for treatment of osteogenic sarcoma (Meyers et al. 2005 and 2008; Romet-
Lemonne et al. 2005; Anderson 2006). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria were: 
−  Newly diagnosed (no greater than one month from diagnostic biopsy) fully malignant high-grade 
osteosarcoma of bone. 
 27/49 
−  Patients ≤30 years old 
−  Patients with normal organ function (renal: serum creatinine ≤1.5 x normal or creatinine clearance 
or radioisotope GFR > 40 ml/min/m2 or >70 ml/min/1.73 m2 or an equivalent GFR as determined by 
the institutional normal range; hepatic: total bilirubin ≤1.5 x normal and SGOT (AST) or SGPT (ALT) 
< 2.5 x normal; cardiac: shortening fraction of ≥29% by echocardiogram or ejection fraction ≥ 50% by 
radionuclide angiogram; patients with a history of pericarditis or myocarditis were excluded).  
Patients  with  low-grade  osteosarcoma,  parosteal  or periosteal sarcoma  were  ineligible.  Patients  with 
metastatic disease were ineligible. No prior chemotherapy or radiation therapy were allowed. Patients 
should have had biopsy only to establish a diagnosis. 
Treatments 
This study was conducted in three phases (induction therapy; surgery; maintenance).  
Phase 1 (Induction Therapy) Within 30 days of a new diagnosis of high-grade osteosarcoma, patients 
were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. Until week 10 patients received neoadjuvant 
induction  therapy  with  one  of  two  chemotherapy  regimens:  Regimen  A  consisted  of  doxorubicin, 
cisplatin, and methotrexate, and Regimen B consisted of doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and methotrexate.  
Phase 2 Definitive surgery was performed between weeks 10 to 11, during which patients received no 
study medication. 
Phase 3 Beginning at week 12, patients in Regimen A received maintenance therapy that consisted of 
the  induction  chemotherapeutics  with  or  without  L-MTP-PE.  Maintenance  therapy  for  patients  in 
Regimen B consisted of the induction chemotherapeutics plus cisplatin, with or without L-MTP-PE. 
(See tables 4 and 5, Figure 2). 
 28/49 
Table 4. Comparison of treatment arms in INT-0133 
Table 5. Chemotherapy treatment schedule in INT-0133 
 29/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients assigned to receive L-MTP-PE in the maintenance phase received twice weekly i.v. injections 
for 12 weeks followed by once weekly injections for an additional 24 weeks. The starting dose of L-
MTP-PE was 2 mg/m2. According to the protocol, the dose could be escalated twice (to 2 mg/m2 + 1 
mg and then to 2 mg/m2+2 mg) until biologic markers of activity were seen: elevation of oral body 
temperature  to  at  least  38.1°C  within  24  hours  of  beginning  drug  administration,  or  the  presence  of 
grade  2  visible  rigors  lasting  30  minutes,  or  a  significant  elevation  in  CRP  (>2x  baseline)  24  hours 
post-dosing.  
Figure 2: Study design 
Objectives 
The  trial  protocol  stated  multiple  specific  aims,  including  to  improve  the  survival  of  patients  with 
osteosarcoma,  to  compare  the  results  of  combined  chemotherapeutic  regimens  with  or  without 
ifosamide, to test the effect of ifosfamide on histologic response; and to determine whether MTP-PE 
can improve disease-free survival for patients with osteogenic sarcoma. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint stated in the protocol was  disease-free survival for both treatment comparisons 
(MTP-PE  maintenance  and  ifosfamide  induction,  respectively).  Disease  free  survival  (DFS)  was 
defined as survival from randomization to relapse of osteosarcoma or death. 
Sample size 
The sample size calculation assumed 60% long-term survival, a Gompertz model with long-term DFS 
of 60% v. 72%, 2-sided significance level of .05, power of 80% and 2 years of flow-up, yielding 3.9 
years of accrual or 585 patients. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation was stratified for LDH, involvement above knee or elbow, and prior amputation. 
Blinding (masking) 
None. 
Statistical methods 
Both  primary  analyses  were  pre-specified  to  use  a  logrank  comparing  the  two  levels  of  one  factor 
while stratifying for the other (MTP-PE maintenance and ifosfamide induction, respectively). 
In a separate cohort within the same study, patients with metastatic or unresectable disease could also 
be enrolled. These were to be considered separate from all efficacy analyses (no formal testing was to 
take place). 
 30/49 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
A  total  of  793  patients  were  enrolled,  115  of  whom  had  metastatic  or  unresectable  disease.The  678 
patients with non-metastatic resectable disease were referred to as the intent-to-treat (ITT) group and 
were the subject of the primary analysis of this study (INT-0133 pivotal). Eventually 664 patients were 
deemed eligible for study entry. 303 patients withdrew from the study during the treatment or follow 
up phases, mostly due to disease progression. 464 patients completed protocol therapy.  
The  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  dataset  included  372  male  and  306  female  patients.  The  mean  age  of  the 
patients  was  approximately  14  years  and  the  majority  of  patients  were  white.  Most  subjects  had  a 
primary tumor site in either the femur or tibia. The applicant considers demographic characteristics to 
be similar across treatment groups.  
Patients with metastatic or unresectable disease at baseline are analyzed separately (INT-0133”other”). 
Therefore,  the  primary  analysis  set  was  comprised  of  all  randomized  patients  who  did  not  have 
evidence of metastasis and who had (supposedly) resectable tumours at the time of randomization.  
Clinical  assessment  and  imaging  study  efficacy  endpoints  were  designed  to  be  completed  at 
designated time points, i.e. each course of treatment. 
Post-treatment  follow-up  was  to  continue  after  treatment  every  3  months  for  1  year,  then  every  6 
months for 2 years, then once a year, and at relapse after completion of the study. Table 5 summarizes 
the length of actual follow-up for patients in the ITT dataset and table 6 shows the actual number of 
phase reports per patient per year after final treatment visit. 
Recruitment 
Intergroup Study 0133 (INT-0133, also referred to as CCG-7921 and POG-9351) was conducted by 
the Children’s Cancer Group (CCG) and the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) under the leadership of 
the U.S. NCI. The study was conducted at 178 centers, most in the United States. Subsequently the 
POG and CCG were combined to create the Children’s Oncology Group (COG).  
Conduct of the study 
The  original  protocol  was  dated  4  March  1993.  Seven  amendments  were  made  to  the  protocol.  In 
general,  these  amendments  extended  the  administration  of  L-MTP-PE  for  an  additional  12  weeks, 
clarified procedures for the administration of L-MTP-PE and other study medications, further defined 
safety  procedures,  and  made  a  variety  of  administrative  clarifications  and  corrections.  The 
amendments included also the addition of three originally unplanned interim analyses. During the time 
this trial was accruing patients, NCI implemented requirements that the Cancer Cooperative Groups, 
including POG and CCG, increase the rigor of the data monitoring committees and implement formal 
interim  analysis  plans.  In  addition,  a  proportional  hazards  regression  model  was  used  to  assess 
interaction between the chemotherapy and L-MTP-PE therapy. 
Baseline data 
Patients’ demographics are shown in Table 6. 
 31/49 
Table 6. Patients’ demographics (pivotal study INT-0133) 
Numbers analysed 
The  intent-to-treat  dataset  included  678  patients  with  non-metastatic  and  resectable  disease.  664 
patients were included in the eligible-patient data set. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy  results  were  presented  based  on  the  primary  analysis  set  as  well  as  based  on  updated  data 
sets. Results for disease-free survival and overall survival are shown in Tables 7-9 and Figures 3-4. 
Table 7:  Overall Survival: 2003, 2006 and 2007 Datasets 
2003 Data 
2006 Data 
2007 Data 
# of Pts 
(deaths) 
P-
value1 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% 
CI  
for 
HR2 
# of Pts 
(deaths) 
P-
value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% 
CI 
for HR 
# of Pts 
(deaths) 
P-
value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% CI 
for HR 
340 (85) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
340 (100) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
340 (100) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
Treatment 
No 
MEPACT 
MEPACT 
338 (63) 
0.0183 
0.67 
(0.48, 
0.94) 
338 (  73) 
0.0352 
0.72 
(0.53, 
0.98) 
338 (  73) 
0.0313 
0.72 
(0.53, 
0.97) 
1P-value for comparing “No MEPACT” with “MEPACT” from log-rank test stratified by ifosfamide use and randomization strata. 
2Hazard ratio 
 32/49 
 
 
 
 
Table 8:  Disease-Free Survival: 2003, 2006 and 2007 Datasets 
2003 Data 
2006 Data 
2007 Data 
Treatment 
# of Pts 
(events) 
P-
value1 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% 
CI 
for 
HR2 
# of Pts 
(events) 
P-
value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% 
CI 
for HR 
# of Pts 
(events) 
P-
value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
95% 
CI 
for HR 
No 
MEPACT 
340 (126) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
340 (133) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
340 (133) 
--- 
1.00 
--- 
MEPACT 
338 (102) 
0.0245 
0.74 
(0.57, 
0.96) 
338 (107) 
0.0623 
0.78 
(0.61, 
1.01) 
338 (107) 
0.0586 
0.78 
(0.61, 
1.01) 
1P-value for comparing “No MEPACT” with “MEPACT” from log-rank test stratified by ifosfamide use and randomization strata. 
2Hazard ratio  
Table 9. Four and six year survival probabilities (primary analysis set) – 2003 Dataset 
Figure 3. DFS in the primary analysis set (pivotal study INT-0133) -– 2003 Dataset 
 33/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. OS in the primary analysis set(pivotal study INT-0133) – 2003 Dataset 
Ancillary analyses 
The results of subgroup analyses for overall survival and disease-free survival are shown in figures 5-8 
(see discussion on clinical efficacy). 
Figure 5. Forest Plot: Overall Survival, 2007 Dataset 
2007 Overall Survival: MEPACT vs. No MEPACT
Subgroups
Females
Males
Age 1-12
Age 13-15
Age 16+
White 
Hispanic 
Black
Other
CC
PO
N
NW 
SW 
S
LDH Below ULN
LDH at or Above ULN
AlkPhos Below ULN 
AlkPhos at or Above ULN 
Tum. Size 0.2-6.9 
Tum. Size 7.0-8.9 
Tum. Size 9.0-10.9 
Tum. Size 11.0+ 
Overal
.2
.5
1
2
5
Hazard Ratio:  MEPACT vs. No MEPACT
 34/49 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Forest Plot: Disease-Free Survival, 2007 Dataset 
2007 Disease-Free Survival: MEPACT vs. No MEPACT
Subgroups
Females
Males
Age 1-12
Age 13-15
Age 16+
White 
Hispanic 
Black
Other
CC
PO
N
NW 
SW 
S
LDH Below ULN
LDH at or Above ULN
AlkPhos Below ULN 
AlkPhos at or Above ULN 
Tum. Size 0.2-6.9 
Tum. Size 7.0-8.9 
Tum. Size 9.0-10.9 
Tum. Size 11.0+ 
Overal
.2
Hazard Ratio:  MEPACT vs. No MEPACT
.5
1
5
2
Figure 7. Overall Survival by Treatment Assignment Primary Analysis Set  
2006 Follow Up – 2006 Dataset 
i
i
g
n
v
v
r
u
S
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
A
A + MTP-PE
B
B + MTP-PE
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Years
 35/49 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Disease-Free Survival by Treatment Assignment Primary Analysis Set – 2003 
Dataset 
Disease-Free Survival:  Primary Analysis Set
g
n
v
i
i
v
r
u
S
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
A
A + MTP-PE
B
B + MTP-PE
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Years
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
None submitted. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
None submitted. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Patients with metastatic disease or unresectable primary disease were included in trial INT-0133 as a 
separate  cohort  (115  patients  were  included).  Exploratory  efficacy  analyses  were  conducted  and 
submitted (data not shown). Efficacy data from study 08 and Protocol 10 were also submitted (data not 
shown). 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
MEPACT  significantly  increased  the  overall  survival  of  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  resectable 
high-grade osteosarcoma when used in conjunction with combination chemotherapy when compared 
to  chemotherapy  alone.  In  a  randomised  phase  III  study  of  678  patients  with  newly-diagnosed 
resectable high-grade osteosarcoma, the addition of adjuvant MEPACT to chemotherapy resulted in a 
relative reduction in the risk of death of 28% (p = 0.0313, hazard ratio (HR) = 0.72 [95% confidence 
interval (CI): 0.53, 0.97]).  
The safety and efficacy of MEPACT have been established in children from the age of 2 years. It is 
not recommended for use in children below the age of 2 due to a lack of data on efficacy and safety in 
this age group. (See SPC section 4.2) 
None  of  the  patients  treated  in  the  osteosarcoma  studies  were  65  or  older  and  in  the  phase  III 
randomised study, only patients up to age 30 years were included. Therefore, there are not sufficient 
data to recommend the use of MEPACT in patients >30 years of age. (See SPC section 4.2) 
During  the  assessment,  the  CHMP  considered  that  because  the  present  submission  is  based  on  the 
results  of  a  single  pivotal  trial,  INT-0133,  the  data  would need  to  be  of  high  quality  and the  results 
robust  (CHMP/EWP/2330/99).  A  GCP  inspection  was  requested  to  take  place  at  2  of  the  178  INT-
0133  investigational  sites  and  the  sponsor  site  with  the  scope  to  verify  the  data  in  the  MAA  for  a 
sample of patients in investigator’s sites as selected by CHMP. Special attention was to be given to the 
completeness of the  dataset,  particularly  in  terms  of key  efficacy  data  (primary  endpoint), treatment 
 36/49 
 
 
allocation  and  administration,  and  safety  reporting.  In  addition,  administrative  aspects  including 
randomisation,  monitoring,  and  data  entry  were  to  be  inspected  at  the  sponsor’s  site  Initially,  full 
access to trial documentation was refused by the sponsor so that the validity of the clinical study could 
not be verified. The reason for this was that assurance of confidentiality was requested at the time of 
the inspection, which was not forthcoming from the inspectors as this would be considered within the 
scope of the scientific assessment of the marketing authorisation application. This constituted a critical 
finding and the GCP compliance of the pivotal study could not be confirmed. Upon further review, 
the  sponsor  provided  written  agreement  to  the  applicant  to  fully  cooperate  with  the  EMEA. 
Following  a  justification  submitted  by  the  applicant, claiming  that  the  access  to  trial  documentation 
had been resolved, the CHMP requested a re-inspection of the sponsor of study INT-0133 and access 
to sponsor data centre and the requested documentation was provided. The GCP inspection took place 
as  planned  and  there  were  several  findings  showing  that  the  sponsor  did  not  fully  comply  with  its 
responsibilities for implementing and maintaining quality assurance and control systems with written 
SOPs to ensure that trials are conducted and data are generated, documented (recorded) and reported 
in compliance with the protocol, GCP and other applicable regulatory findings. Findings included the 
fact  that  no  documents  were  available  to  substantiate  on-site  monitoring  and  auditing  frequency 
(audits of each site were stated to be performed on a 3-yearly basis, with 10 patients or 12% of the 
sponsor’s patients audited per site, whichever highest). Concerning the 2006 data set planned for the 
inspection, the inspectors concluded that this was no longer a true representation of the data available 
because additional follow-up was available since database lock. The original randomisation list was no 
longer  available  and  had  to  be  rebuilt.  In  some  cases,  events  were  reported  without  using  the 
appropriate  CRF  forms.  Inadequate  procedures  were  used  for  the  timely  and  complete  reporting  of 
study data. In some instances, the procedures in place to collect the most up to date data on overall 
survival were ineffective because of inadequate resolution of queries. Concerning the sites inspected, 
it had become clear that clinical trial data was not readily accessible. In isolated cases, the information 
could  not  be  located  even  upon  request.  However,  the  inspectors  found  that  overall  all  major 
deficiencies occurred in a limited number of cases and that there was no indication of a structural or 
pre-determined bias for one of the treatment arms. In conclusion, no critical findings were observed, 
the  overall  compliance  to  current  GCP  standards  was  considered  sufficient,  and  the  outcome  of  the 
inspection  was  that  the  database  could  be  used  in  the  scientific  evaluation  of  the  marketing 
authorisation application. 
During the assessment, the CHMP also found that there were a number of unexplained findings and 
uncertainties  about  the  treatment  effect  associated  with  MEPACT.  In  particular  the  mechanism  of 
action  of  MEPACT  has  been  claimed  to  be  the  aspecific  activation  of  the  mononuclear  phagocyte 
system (MPS), but no direct evidence of MEPACT induced anti-tumoral cytotoxicity was available. 
Important differences in treatment effect had been observed for different age groups, gender and race. 
The treatment effect was different according to associated chemotherapy and appeared to be present 
only  when  MEPACT is  used  in  conjunction  with  ifosfamide.  A  large  number  of  patients  have  been 
censored  in  time-to-event  analyses,  but  it  was  difficult  to  exclude  that  censoring  is  independent  of 
outcome.  The  CHMP  convened  the  scientific  advisory  group  (SAG)  for  oncology  to  advise  on  a 
number  of  points.  The  SAG  agreed  that  the  claimed  mechanism  of  a  specific  activation  of  the 
mononuclear  phagocyte  system  (MPS)  seems  plausible  and  may  be  related  to  the  clinical  efficacy 
observed. The SAG agreed that it is difficult to speculate on the importance of any apparent effects in 
post hoc subgroup analyses. The apparent interactions with age, gender and race might be entirely due 
to chance. There is no strong pharmacological rationale for an interaction with any of those subgroups. 
However, it might be of interest to conduct further pharmacokinetic studies to explore intrinsic factors. 
No subgroup analyses have been presented by histological response to pre-operative chemotherapy. It 
would  be  interesting  to  investigate  the  effect  of  MTP  by  histological  response  to  pre-operative 
chemotherapy, since this is an important prognostic factor. Also, important imbalances with respect to 
this  factor  should  be  ruled  out.  From  the  data  presented  on  overall  survival  it  is  possible  that  there 
exists  a  quantitative  interaction  with  ifosfamide.  However,  the  SAG  agreed  that  this  quantitative 
interaction  is  likely  to  be  small  and  of  little  clinical  importance,  although  the  precise  magnitude  is 
difficult to establish. What is important is that the clinical data presented are reassuring about the fact 
that  there  is  no  important qualitative  interaction. The  SAG  agreed  by  consensus  that  the  benefits  of 
MTP  are  consistent  regardless  of  the  treatment  arm  used  in  the  pivotal  trial,  although  the  treatment 
effect might be slightly different. Further pharmacokinetic studies could be conducted to address this 
point.    Although  missing  data  are always  undesirable,  in  this  context, the high  level  of  censoring  is 
 37/49 
considered unbeneficial and could have been prevented despite the nature of the disease and the type 
of patient population. However, as long as the censoring mechanisms are the same between treatment 
arms, it should be possible to rule out major bias in the treatment estimate. From the data presented the 
SAG  agreed  that  there  are  no  signs  of  different  follow-up  and  censoring  mechanisms  between 
treatment arms so this should not be a major concern. A more extended follow-up in terms of overall 
survival  (OS)  should  be  attempted  with  the  aim  of  reducing  the  missing  data.  Overall,  the  SAG 
considered  that  the  unexplained  observations  and  uncertainties  are  well  within  the  range  of  what  is 
observed  with  other  cancer  products.  The  SAG  agreed  that  based  on  the  clinical  efficacy  data 
presented,  treatment  with  MTP  was  associated  with  clinically  significant  benefits  in  the  proposed 
indication. The SAG also agreed that the observed toxicity profile raised no particular concern, given 
the large unmet medical need and the sufficiently convincing efficacy data, and that it is considered 
important to conduct a number of additional studies post-approval to address the pharmacokinetics of 
MTP  by  age,  to  investigate  the  pharmacokinetics  of  ifosfamide  in  combination  with  MTP,  to 
investigate the efficacy and safety of MTP for the treatment of adult osteosarcoma, to further explore 
the possibility of using MTP also before surgery (neoadjuvant setting), as well as to attempt to retrieve 
more OS data that is currently missing. 
Clinical safety 
The safety database also consisted of the 248 patients treated with MEPACT during the early phase 
single arm studies in patients with mostly advanced malignancies.  
The  applicant  claimed  that  it  is  likely  that  undesirable  effects  also  occurred  in  INT-0133,  but  they 
were  not recorded  because  only  serious and life-threatening  adverse  reactions  were collected  in  that 
study. Although frequent and appropriate measures of safety and efficacy were required by protocol, 
not all results were collected in the CRFs. In addition, not all data recorded in the CRFs were entered 
into  the  the  sponsor’s  database.  The  collection  and  reporting  of  data  by  course  was  tied  to  the 
chemotherapy courses during induction and maintenance. This meant that many events and toxicities 
that occurred during the course were not associated with specific dates.  
•  Patient exposure 
The exposure to L-MTP-PE in pivotal study INT-0133 is shown in table 10. 
Table 10. L-MTP-PE exposure in the primary analysis set (in mg) (pivotal study INT-0133) 
•  Adverse events  
 38/49 
 
 
Each of the 248 patients treated with MEPACT during the early phase single arm studies in patients 
with  mostly  advanced  malignancies  experienced  at  least  one  undesirable  effect.  Many  of  the  most 
frequently  reported  undesirable  effects  as  shown  in  the  following  summary  table  are  thought  to  be 
related  to  the  mechanism  of  action  of  mifamurtide.  The  majority  of  these  events  were  reported  as 
either  mild  or  moderate. This profile is  consistent  whether summarising  all  early  studies (n=248)  or 
only those studies in osteosarcoma (n=51). 
Adverse reactions are classified according to system organ class and frequency. Frequency groupings 
are defined according to the following convention: Very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness 
(Table 11). 
Table 11. Adverse reactions associated with MEPACT in ≥ 1/100 patients 
Infections and infestations 
Common: 
Sepsis, cellulitis, nasopharyngitis, catheter site infection, upper 
respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, pharyngitis, Herpes 
simplex infection  
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
Cancer pain 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: 
Very common: 
Common: 
Anaemia 
Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Anorexia 
Dehydration, hypokalaemia, decreased appetite 
Very common: 
Common: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common: 
Confusional state, depression, insomnia, anxiety 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Headache, dizziness 
Paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, tremor, somnolence, lethargy 
Eye disorders 
Common: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Common: 
Blurred vision 
Vertigo, tinnitus, hearing loss 
Cardiac disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Vascular disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Tachycardia 
Cyanosis, palpitations 
Hypertension, hypotension 
Phlebitis, flushing, pallor 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Dyspnoea, tachypnoea, cough 
Pleural effusion, exacerbated dyspnoea, productive cough, haemoptysis, 
wheezing, epistaxis, exertional dyspnoea, sinus congestion, nasal 
congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Vomiting, diarrhoea, constipation, abdominal pain, nausea 
Upper abdominal pain, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, lower 
abdominal pain 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Hepatic pain 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Hyperhidrosis 
Rash, pruritis, erythema, alopecia, dry skin 
Very common: 
Common: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common: 
Common: 
Myalgia, arthralgia, back pain, pain in extremity 
Muscle spasms, neck pain, groin pain, bone pain, shoulder pain, chest 
 39/49 
 
 
 
 
wall pain, musculoskeletal stiffness 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common: 
Haematuria, dysuria, pollakiuria 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Dysmenorrhoea  
Common: 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common: 
Common: 
Fever, chills, fatigue, hypothermia, pain, malaise, asthenia, chest pain 
Peripheral oedema, oedema, mucosal inflammation, infusion site 
erythema, infusion site reaction, catheter site pain, chest discomfort, 
feeling cold 
Investigations 
Common: 
Weight decreased 
Surgical and medical procedures 
Common: 
Post-procedural pain 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia  has  most  commonly  been  reported  when  MEPACT  is  used  in  conjunction  with 
chemotherapeutic  agents.    In  a  randomised  controlled  trial,  the  incidence  of  myeloid  malignancy 
(acute  myeloid  leukaemia/myelodysplastic  syndrome)  was  the  same  in  patients  receiving  MEPACT 
plus chemotherapy as in patients receiving only chemotherapy (approximately 2.5%). 
Metabolism and nutritional disorders 
Anorexia (21%) was very commonly reported in trials of MEPACT in late stage cancer patients. 
Nervous system disorders 
Consistent  with  other  generalised  symptoms,  the  most  common  nervous  system  disorders  were 
headache (50%) and dizziness (17%). 
Ear and labyrinth disorders  
Although hearing loss may be attributable to ototoxic chemotherapy, like cisplatin, it is unclear 
whether MEPACT in conjunction with multi-agent chemotherapy may increase hearing loss. 
A higher percentage of objective and subjective hearing loss was observed overall in patients who 
received MEPACT and chemotherapy (12 % and 7%, respectively) in the phase III study  
compared to those patients that received only chemotherapy (7% and 1%). All patients received a 
total dose of cisplatin of 480 mg/m2 as part of their induction (neoadjuvant) and/or maintenance 
(adjuvant) chemotherapy regimen.  
Cardiac and vascular disorders 
Mild-moderate  tachycardia  (50%),  hypertension  (26%)  and  hypotension  (29%)  were  commonly 
reported in uncontrolled trials of MEPACT. One serious incident of subacute thrombosis was reported 
in early studies, but no serious cardiac events were associated with MEPACT in a large randomised 
controlled trial. 
Respiratory disorders 
Respiratory  disorders,  including  dyspnoea  (21%),  cough  (18%)  and  tachypnoea  (13%)  were  very 
commonly reported, and two patients with pre-existing asthma developed mild to moderate respiratory 
distress associated with MEPACT treatment in a phase II study. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders were frequently associated with MEPACT administration, including nausea 
(57%)  and  vomiting  (44%)  in  about  half  of  patients,  constipation  (17%),  diarrhoea  (13%)  and 
abdominal pain.  
Skin and subcutaneous disorders 
Hyperhidrosis (11%) was very common in patients receiving MEPACT in uncontrolled studies. 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
 40/49 
 
 
Low  grade  pain  was  common  in  patients  receiving  MEPACT,  including  myalgia  (31%),  back  pain 
(15%), extremity pain (12%) and arthralgia (10%).  
General disorders and administration site conditions  
The majority of patients experience chills (89%), fever (85%) and fatigue (53%). These are typically 
mild to moderate, transient in nature and generally respond to palliative treatment (e.g., paracetamol 
for  fever).  Other  generalised  symptoms  that  were  typically  mild  to  moderate  and  very  common 
included  hypothermia  (23%),  malaise  (13%),  pain  (15%),  asthenia  (13%)  and  chest  pain  (11%). 
Oedema,  chest  discomfort,  local  infusion  or  catheter  site  reactions  and  ‘feeling  cold’  were  less 
frequently reported in these patients, mostly with late stage malignant disease.  
Investigations 
Increase  in  blood  urea  and  blood  creatinine  was  associated  with  MEPACT  use  in  one  patient  with 
osteosarcoma. 
Grade III-IV adverse events during study INT-0133 
The most frequently reported grade 3 and 4 toxicities in the primary analysis set as well as in patients 
randomized to L-MTP-PE include low blood counts (47% ANC, 24% WBC, 29% platelets), stomatitis 
(46%), infections (22%), and abnormal liver enzymes (33% SGOT; 52% SGPT) (Table 12). The only 
other adverse events reported at a frequency greater than 10% were nausea and vomiting (18%) and 
objective hearing loss (12%). The same events occurred at comparable frequencies in the no-L-MTP-
PE group with the exception of objective hearing loss, which occurred in 7% of the patients in the no-
L-MTP-PE group (p=0.0478). All of these adverse events are typically associated with chemotherapy 
and are included in the toxicities list of the chemotherapy agents used in this study. 
Adverse events 
Table 12: Grade III-IV Adverse Events by Individual Study Arm during study INT-0133 
Arm A + L-
MTP-PE 
Arm B + L-
MTP-PE  
Arm A 
Arm B 
Total 
Haematology 
second malignancy 
Kidney 
systolic BP 
diastolic BP 
hematuria 
bladder 
Gastrointestinal 
stomatitis 
abdominal pain 
constipation 
diarrhea 
nausea and vomiting 
Pulmonary 
vital capacity 
functional 
clinical 
Cardiac 
rhythm 
echo 
function 
hypertension 
hypotension 
Nervous 
Periph sensory 
Cent cerebellar 
Skin 
Allergy 
Hearing 
4 (2%) 
4 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
14 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
94 (54%) 
4 (2%) 
6 (3%) 
6 (3%) 
36 (21%) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
2 (1%) 
3 (2%) 
0 
6 (3%) 
14 (8%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
0 
82 (49%) 
6 (4%) 
7 (4%) 
3 (2%) 
35 (21%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
3 (2%) 
2 (1%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
7 (4%) 
7 (4%) 
3 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
3 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
61 (37%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
5 (3%) 
23 (14%) 
1 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
0 
4 (2%) 
5 (3%) 
8 (5%) 
8 (5%) 
2 (1%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
0 
0 
73 (43%) 
5 (3%) 
3 (2%) 
11 (6%) 
24 (14%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
0 
1 (1%) 
3 (2%) 
0 
0 
1 (1%) 
4 (2%) 
6 (4%) 
6 (4%) 
3 (2%) 
5 (1%) 
8 (1%) 
1 
1 
310 (46%) 
18 (3%) 
19 (3%) 
25 (4%) 
118 (17%) 
3 
4 (1%) 
2 
6 (1%) 
6 (1%) 
1 
3 
8 (1%) 
10 (1%) 
27 (4%) 
27 (4%) 
10 (1%) 
objective deficit 
8 (5%) 
26 (16%) 
16 (10%) 
13 (8%) 
63 (9%) 
 41/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Arm A 
subjective deficit 
Infection 
Fever 
Local reaction 
Mood 
Weight change 
Performance status 
Creatinine clearance 
1 (1%) 
48 (28%) 
5 (3%) 
2 (1%) 
6 (3%) 
4 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
Arm A + L-
MTP-PE 
Arm B 
10 (6%) 
33 (20%) 
2 (1%) 
0 
7 (4%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
33 (20%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
0 
0 
Arm B + L-
MTP-PE  
2 (1%) 
40 (23%) 
4 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
4 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
Total 
14 (2%) 
154 (23%) 
14 (2%) 
6 (1%) 
18 (3%) 
10 (1%) 
3 
Creatinine clearance toxicity grade 3 and 4 was reported more frequently for patients assigned to the 
no-L-MTP-PE group. An examination of the four treatment groups for this categories is consistent for 
creatinine  clearance,  i.e.  both  groups  receiving  L-MTP-PE  (Regimens  A+  and  B+)  were  lower  than 
both groups not receiving L-MTP-PE (Regimens A and B). A decrease in creatinine clearance is not 
unexpected because of the known renal toxicity of the concomitant chemotherapy. 
Hearing loss 
Grade  3  and  4  objective  hearing  loss  was  observed  primarily  in  treatments  arms  A  and  to  a  lesser 
extent  also  in  arms  with  regimen  B.  A  clinical  significant  higher  loss  was  observed  in  with  arm  A 
treated with L-MTP-PE. Objective hearing loss was observed in 12% in the L-MTP-PE group (n=39) 
whereas in 7% of the patients in the no-L-MTP-PE group (n=24) (p=0.0478). 
Immunological events 
Five  instances  of  potential  allergic  reaction  to  L-MTP-PE  were  reported  or  noted  during  review  of 
INT-0133.  Urticaria  and  macular,  erythematous  rash  (grade  3)  resulting  in  dose  delay;  erythema 
multiforme (grade ≥) resulting in dose discontinuation ; hives (grade 1) resulting in dose mitigation to 
2 mg/m2; allergic reaction to L-MTP-PE (NOS) grade 4 resulting in dose discontinuation; respiratory 
distress grade 2 resulting in dose discontinued. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In trial INT-0133, there were 148 deaths reported in the patients in the primary analysis group, mostly 
due to progressive disease. One other patient presumably died as the result of progressive disease. No 
deaths were attributed to L-MTP-PE. Most deaths were due to progressive disease.  
Five instances of potential allergic reaction to L-MTP-PE were reported, including 2 cases of urticaria 
(66766,  63969),  one  erythema  multiform  (63890),  one  grade  IV  allergic  reaction  (65489)  and  one 
bronchospasm (60243). In four cases, reactions occurred late in the maintenance treatment. Except for 
urticaria, L-MTP-PE was discontinued. Rash and erythema occurred in 2% and 6% of treated patients 
during  previous  protocols  including  L-MTP-PE.  One  case  of  blister  was  recorded  during  phase  I-II 
studies. 
During INT-0133 clinical study, three patients experienced two pleural effusions (63737, 58228) and 
one pericardial effusion (68129). Although rare, pericardial and pleural effusions have been previously 
reported with L-MTP-PE. A total of 3 pleural effusions and one pericardial and pleural effusion were 
recorded  during  prior  phase  I-II  studies.  In  toxicological  studies,  pericarditis  was  recorded.  The 
aetiology of effusion could be related to the immune stimulation of L-MTP-PE. 
Two episodes of seizure (61388) and painful spasms of extremities (65464) could be related to neuro-
toxicity  of  L-MTP-PE.  One  convulsion,  one  muscle  spasm  and  one  leukoencephalopathy  were  also 
recorded during phase I-II protocols including L-MTP-PE. 
One case of cardiac grade II arrhythmia (68129) was reported during study int-0133. No other rhythm 
abnormality  was  recorded  during  phase  I-II  protocols.  However  tachycardia  and  bradycardia  were 
commonly registered during all studies. They were frequently associated with initial febrile reaction. 
Patients experienced also hyper- or hypotension, nausea or vomiting, myalgia and pain, dyspnoea and 
chills.  Severe flu like symptoms and arterial tension variation were dose limiting toxicity during phase 
I studies. 
•  Laboratory findings 
 42/49 
From the phase II osteosarcoma studies, treatment-emergent adverse events associated with laboratory 
toxicities were reported by ≥5% (3/51) of the 51 patients. The most common laboratory toxicity was 
leukopenia  which  was  reported  by  20%  (10/51)  of  the  patients.  As  noted  above,  this  was  also  the 
adverse  event  that emerged  as  a potential  SAE  in  several  patients  in  protocol 10,  where  L-MTP-PE 
was used in conjunction with chemotherapy. Eight percent (4/51) of patients had at least one episode 
of a grade 3 or 4 leukopenia. Anaemia (12%, 6/51) was the second most common laboratory toxicity 
reported with grade 3 anaemia reported for 4% of patients (2/51). No grade 4 anaemia was reported. 
Neutropenia was reported by three patients who were enrolled in Protocol 10 where patients received 
either  cisplatin  or  ifosfamide  along  with  the  L-MTP-PE.  Treatment-emergent  adverse  events 
associated with laboratory toxicities that were reported by < 5% of the patients included 4% (2 of 51 
patients) urine glucose, hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia; 2% (1 of 51 patients) pure red cell aplasia, 
blood  creatinine  increased,  blood  urea  increased,  urine  specific  gravity  increased,  hyponatremia, 
hypophosphatemia, proteinuria, ketonuria. 
In  trial  INT-0133,  the  Grade  3  and  grade  4  adverse  toxicities  regarding  laboratory  parameters  were 
presented.  A  considerable  increase  in  the  number  of  blood  transfusions  is  administered  in  the 
maintenance phase of arm B+L-MTP-PE when compared to the non-L-MTP-PE treated arm B (275 vs 
341 respectively). In arm B, also the need for platelet transfusions and total parenteral nutrition (TPN) 
appeared higher in the L-MTP-PE-group. 
Arm A 
40 (23%) 
Arm A + L-
MTP-PE 
Table 13: laboratory data during study INT-0133 
Adverse 
events 
Haematology 
white blood 
cell 
neutrophils 
platelets 
hemoglobin 
lymphs 
Coagulation  
PT 
PTT 
84 (48%) 
56 (32%) 
14 (8%) 
2 (1%) 
75 (45%) 
48 (29%) 
14 (8%) 
2 (1%) 
29 (17%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Arm B 
Arm B + L-
MTP-PE  
Total 
44 (27%) 
53 (31%) 
166 (24%) 
71 (43%) 
43 (26%) 
14 (8%) 
3 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
85 (50%) 
49 (29%) 
18 (11%) 
4 (2%) 
315 (46%) 
196 (29%) 
60 (9%) 
11 (2%) 
0 
0 
1 
0 
Hepatic 
SGOT 
SGPT 
alkalin 
phosphatase 
bilirubin total 
Pancreas 
amylase 
glucose 
Kidney 
BUN 
creatinine 
Creatinine 
clearance 
Electrolytes 
sodium 
potassium 
calcium 
magnesium 
48 (28%) 
84 (48%) 
4 (2%) 
52 (31%) 
86 (51%) 
0 
66 (40%) 
102 (61%) 
2 (1%) 
60 (35%) 
91 (53%) 
5 (3%) 
226 (33%) 
363 (54%) 
11 (2%) 
19 (11%) 
12 (7%) 
17 (10%) 
16 (9%) 
64 (9%) 
1 (1%) 
14 (8%) 
2 (1%) 
3 (2%) 
5 (3%) 
5 (3%) 
10 (6%) 
5 (3%) 
3 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
4 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
4 (2%) 
1 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
8 (5%) 
2 (1%) 
6 (4%) 
0 
12 (7%) 
0 
2 (1%) 
9 (5%) 
2 (1%) 
11 (7%) 
2 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
10 (6%) 
2 (1%) 
2 (1%) 
1 (1%) 
0 
8 (5%) 
3 (2%) 
3 (2%) 
3 
40 (6%) 
5 (1%) 
11 (2%) 
16 (2%) 
9 (1%) 
37 (5%) 
12 (2%) 
14 (2%) 
•  Safety in special populations 
No safety data from special populations were submitted. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No safety data related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions were submitted. 
 43/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
During  phase  I/II  studies,  six  patients  discontinued  treatment  after  adverse  event  (rash  and 
conjunctivitis  for  patient  1-5;  myalgia,  tachypnea  and  fever  for  patient  1-30;  peripheral  edema, 
vomiting,  chills,  fever  for  patient  3-31;  dyspnea,  hypotension,  cough  for  patient  3-35;  hypotension, 
pitting edema, dyspnea, cough, decreased urine output for patient 3-40; fever, pericardial and pleural 
effusion  for  patient  10-303).  Four  of  these  patients  were  receiving  doses  of  L-MTP-PE  form  4  to  6 
mg/m², above the MTD. During protocols 08 and 10, thirty two patients discontinued L-MTP-PE due 
to  an  adverse  event.  In  14  cases,  the  causality  relationship  was  related  to  L-MTP-PE.  The  most 
adverse events were expected, due to the immune stimulation related to L-MTP-PE.  
During  study  INT-0133,  eleven  patients  were  withdrawn  from  the  clinical  study  due  to  toxicity.  As 
expected, regimen B (4 drug therapy) was associated with more withdrawal than regimen A (3 drug 
therapy). The addition of L-MTP-PE did not increase the number of withdrawal related to toxicity (4 
patients with L-MTP-PE versus 7 patients without L-MTP-PE).  However the number of withdrawals 
during  the  treatment  phases  by  parent/patient  was  higher  for  the  L-MTP-PE  groups  compared  with 
those  who  did  not  receive  L-MTP-PE.  The  administration  of  L-MTP-PE  was  scheduled  to  continue 
beyond the completion of chemotherapy. Review of the CRFs for these patients indicates that while 
many of the withdrawals were due to refusal of further L-MTP-PE therapy, they were not necessarily 
relayed to the completion of chemotherapy. In many of these instances the withdrawal was based on 
the patients’ reactions to L-MTP-PE, such as fever and rigors. 
Table 14: Patients exposure and withdrawal during study INT-0133 
Regimen B 
Regimen A  Regimen A + 
L-MTP-PE 
167 
164 
4 
174 
170 
3 
3 
6 
0 
153 
8 
0 
9 
1 
1 
6 
0 
145 
20 
1 
8 
1 
166 
164 
5 
0 
4 
2 
148 
6 
6 
7 
4 
Regimen B + 
L-MTP-PE 
171 
169 
4 
0 
3 
1 
158 
26 
4 
9 
2 
Total 
678 
667 
16 
4 
19 
3 
604 
60 
11 
33 
8 
130 
108 
120 
106 
464 
Total 
Induction phase 
Withdrawn by 
parent/patient 
Withdrawn by 
physician 
Progressive 
disease 
Withdrawn for 
toxicity 
Maintenance 
phase 
Withdrawn by 
parent/ patient 
Withdrawn by 
physician 
Progressive 
disease 
Withdrawn for 
toxicity 
Completed 
protocol therapy 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data have been submitted. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Each of the 248 patients treated with MEPACT during the early phase single arm studies in patients 
with  mostly  advanced  malignancies  experienced  at  least  one  undesirable  effect.  Many  of  the  most 
frequently  reported  undesirable  effects  were  thought  to  be  related  to  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
mifamurtide. The majority of these events were reported as either mild or moderate. This profile was 
 44/49 
  
 
consistent  whether  summarising  all  early  studies  (n=248)  or  only  those  studies  in  osteosarcoma 
(n=51).  
It  is  likely  that  undesirable  effects  also  occurred  in  the  large  randomised  study,  but  they  were  not 
recorded because only serious and life-threatening adverse reactions were collected in that study.  In 
the pivotal study INT-0133 long term observations on safety are hampered by a low average number 
of  approximately  1.4  and  1.5  assessment  visits/year.  Only  grade  3  and  grade  4  toxicities  only  in 
frequencies higher than 10% have been reported. The data on adverse events (AE) as provided do not 
differentiate  for  the  time  point  at  which  these  events  were  observed.  The  most  frequently  reported 
grade 3 and 4 toxicities encountered in this study (low blood counts, nausea and vomiting, stomatitis, 
infections, hearing loss and abnormal liver enzymes) were associated with the chemotherapy applied. 
A higher incidence of grade 3-4 objective hearing loss in patients receiving L-MTP-PE in combination 
with regimen A (doxorubicin, cisplatin, methotrexate) was observed. 
In  patients  with  a  history  of  asthma  or  other  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease,  consideration 
should  be  given  to  administration  of  bronchodilators  on  a  prophylactic  basis.  Two  patients  with 
pre-existing asthma developed mild to moderate respiratory distress associated with the treatment. If a 
severe respiratory reaction occurs, administration of MEPACT should be discontinued and appropriate 
treatment initiated (see SPC section 4.4). 
Administration of MEPACT was commonly associated with transient neutropenia, usually when used 
in conjunction with chemotherapy. Episodes of neutropenic fever should be monitored and managed 
appropriately. MEPACT may be given during periods of neutropenia, but subsequent fever attributed 
to  the  treatment  should  be  monitored  closely.  Fever  or  chills  persisting  for  more  than  8  hours  after 
administration of MEPACT should be evaluated for possible sepsis (see SPC section 4.4). 
Association of MEPACT with signs of pronounced inflammatory response, including pericarditis and 
pleuritis,  was  uncommon.  MEPACT  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  a  history  of 
autoimmune,  inflammatory  or  other  collagen  diseases.  During  MEPACT  administration,  patients 
should  be  monitored  for  unusual  signs  or  symptoms,  such  as  arthritis  or  synovitis,  suggestive  of 
uncontrolled inflammatory reactions. (see SPC section 4.4). 
Patients with a history of venous thrombosis, vasculitis or unstable cardiovascular disorders should be 
closely  monitored  during  MEPACT  administration.  If  symptoms  are  persistent  and  worsening, 
administration should be delayed or discontinued. Haemorrhage was observed in animals at very high 
doses. These are not expected at the recommended dose, however monitoring of clotting parameters 
after the first dose and once again after several doses is recommended. (see SPC section 4.4).  
Occasional allergic reactions have been associated with MEPACT treatment, including rash, shortness 
of  breath  and  Grade  4  hypertension.  It  may  be  difficult  to  distinguish  allergic  reactions  from 
exaggerated inflammatory responses, but patients should be monitored for signs of allergic reactions 
(see SPC section 4.4). 
Nausea,  vomiting  and  loss  of  appetite  are  very  common  adverse  reactions  to  MEPACT. 
Gastrointestinal toxicity may be exacerbated when MEPACT is used in combination with high dose, 
multi-agent chemotherapy and was associated with an increased use of parenteral nutrition (see SPC 
section 4.4). 
There  are  no  data  from  the  use  of  mifamurtide  in  pregnant  patients  (see  SPC  section  4.7).  Animal 
studies are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see SPC section 5.3). MEPACT should 
not be used during pregnancy and in women not using effective contraception. 
It is unknown whether mifamurtide is excreted in human milk. The excretion of mifamurtide in milk 
has  not been  studied in animals.  A  decision  on  whether to continue/discontinue  breast-feeding  or to 
continue/discontinue therapy should be made taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the 
child and the benefit of MEPACT therapy to the woman.  
No  studies  of the effects  on  the ability  to  drive  and use  machines  have  been  performed.  Some  very 
common  or  common  undesirable  effects  of  MEPACT  treatment  (such  as  dizziness,  vertigo,  fatigue 
and blurred vision) may have an effect on the ability to drive and use machines (see SPC section 4.7). 
No  case  of  overdose  has  been  reported.  The  maximum  tolerated  dose  in  phase  I  studies  was  4-
6 mg/m2 with a high variability of adverse reactions. Signs and symptoms that were associated with 
 45/49 
higher  doses  and/or  were dose  limiting  were not life-threatening,  and  included fever,  chills, fatigue, 
nausea, vomiting, headache and hypo- or hypertension. In the event of an overdose, it is recommended 
that  appropriate  supportive  treatment  be  initiated.  Supportive  measures  should  be  based  on 
institutional guidelines and the clinical symptoms observed. Examples include paracetamol for fever, 
chills and headache and anti-emetics (other than steroids) for nausea and vomiting (see SPC section 
4.9). 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan (Table 15). 
Table 15 Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
1. Cardiotoxicity / vascular 
events 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, data from PK study in 
healthy volunteers, routine 
pharmacovigilance 
2. Risk of bleeding / 
haemorrhage 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study,  routine pharmacovigilance 
3. Allergy and 
immunological events 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
4. Respiratory disorders 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
5. Exacerbated gastro-
intestinal toxicity leading to 
increased need for total 
parenteral nutrition 
6. Exacerbation of cisplatin-
related ototoxicity 
7. Neurotoxicity 
8. Flu-like symptoms 
(Masking of serious 
infection by MEPACT 
adverse reactions) 
9. Ocular events 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study (non-cisplatin patients), 
routine pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns of risk 
of cardiovascular disorders, recommends 
close monitoring of susceptible patients.  
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns of risk 
of haemorrhage, recommends close 
monitoring of clotting parameters.  
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns of 
allergic reactions and recommends 
monitoring patients for signs.  
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns of a 
possibility of respiratory distress and 
mentions possible prophylactic and 
emergency measures.  
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns that 
patients treated with MEPACT may have an 
increased need for total parenteral nutrition.  
Comment in SPC: Section 4.8 indicates that 
MEPACT may increase chemotherapy-
associated hearing loss. 
None 
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns that 
episodes of prolonged fever should be 
evaluated as sepsis. 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
None 
10. Chronic inflammation or 
autoimmune disease, such as 
synovitis or arthritis 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
11. Hepatic and renal 
toxicities, including 
electrolyte imbalance 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
12. Myelosuppression 
Monitoring through Surveillance 
 46/49 
Warning in SPC:  Section 4.4 warns of risk 
of pronounced inflammatory response, 
advises caution in patients with a history of 
autoimmune-related diseases and advises to 
monitor patients for related symptoms. 
Hepatic toxicity – Recommendation in SPC:  
Section 4.2 recommends monitoring of liver 
function until the end of MEPACT therapy. 
Renal toxicity – Recommendation in SPC:  
Section 4.2 recommends monitoring of 
kidney function until the end of MEPACT 
therapy..  
Warning in SPC:  SPC Section 4.4 warns of 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study, routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
episodes of neutropenia and neutropenic 
fever 
13. Tolerability in 
conjunction with multi-agent 
chemotherapy (grade 1 and 2 
events) 
14. Long-term safety 
information incomplete 
Collection of quality of life data as 
part of the Surveillance Study 
None 
Surveillance Study, routine 
pharmacovigilance 
None 
The applicant has committed to conduct a Surveillance Study (MTP-OS-501-R - Surveillance Study of 
patients with non-metastatic and resectable osteosarcoma).  
The applicant has committed to closely monitor the off-label-use of MEPACT and report on this topic 
in  detail  in  PSURs in  accordance  with  the requirements  set  out  in  Article  24(3)  of  Regulation  (EC) 
726/2004,  taking  account  of  the  guidance  set  out  in  Volume  9  (Pharmacovigilance)  on  the  Rules 
governing medicinal products in the European Union. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The quality of the active substance is considered sufficiently 
described  and  adequately  supported  by  data.  Sufficient  information  has  been  presented  for  the 
excipients POPC and OOPS which are considered novel excipients. Both comply with acceptable in-
house  specifications  in  view  of  their  synthesis.  Full  information  on  the  synthesis  and  toxicologic 
profile of these excipients has been provided. As far as the drug product concerns the results of tests 
important  product  quality 
carried  out 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. 
indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Mifamurtide (muramyl tripeptide phosphatidyl ethanolamine, MTP-PE) is a fully synthetic derivative 
of muramyl dipeptide (MDP), the smallest naturally-occurring immune stimulatory component of cell 
walls  from  Mycobacterium  sp.  It  has  similar  immunostimulatory  effects  as  natural  MDP  with  the 
additional advantage of a longer half-life in plasma. MEPACT is a liposomal formulation specifically 
designed for in vivo targeting to macrophages by intravenous infusion.  
MTP-PE is a specific ligand of NOD2, a receptor found primarily on monocytes, dendritic cells and 
macrophages.  MTP-PE  is  a  potent  activator  of  monocytes  and  macrophages.  Activation  of  human 
macrophages  by  MEPACT  is  associated  with  production  of  cytokines,  including  tumour  necrosis 
factor  (TNF-α),  interleukin-1  (IL-1β),  IL-6,  IL-8,  and  IL-12  and  adhesion  molecules,  including 
lymphocyte  function-associated  antigen-1  (LFA-1)  and  intercellular adhesion  molecule-1  (ICAM-1). 
In vitro-treated human monocytes killed allogeneic and autologous tumor cells (including melanoma, 
ovarian, colon, and renal carcinoma), but had no toxicity towards normal cells.  
In  vivo  administration  of  MEPACT  resulted  in  the  inhibition  of  tumour  growth  in  mouse  and  rat 
models  of  lung  metastasis,  skin  and  liver  cancer,  and  fibrosarcoma.  Significant  enhancement  of 
disease-free  survival  was  also  demonstrated 
treatment  of  dog  osteosarcoma  and 
hemangiosarcoma  with  MEPACT  as  adjuvant  therapy.  The  exact  mechanism  by  which  MEPACT 
activation of monocytes and macrophages leads to antitumour activity in animals and humans is not 
yet known. 
the 
in 
In sensitive species (rabbit and dog) the highest daily dose of liposomal mifamurtide that did not cause 
adverse effects was 0.1 mg/kg, corresponding to 1.2 and 2 mg/m2, respectively. The no-adverse-effect 
level for MEPACT in animals corresponds roughly to the 2 mg/m2 recommend dose for humans. 
 47/49 
 
Data  from  a  six  month  dog  study  of  daily  intravenous  injections  of  up  to  0.5  mg/kg  (10  mg/m2) 
MEPACT  provide  an  8-  to  19-fold  cumulative  exposure  safety  margin  for  overt  toxicity  for  the 
intended clinical dose in humans. Major toxic effects associated with these high daily and cumulative 
doses  of  MEPACT  were  mainly  exaggerated  pharmacological  effects:  pyrexia,  signs  of  pronounced 
inflammatory  response  manifested  as  synovitis,  bronchopneumonia,  pericarditis  and  inflammatory 
necrosis  of  the  liver  and  bone  marrow.  The  following  events  were  also  observed:  haemorrhage  and 
prolongation  of  coagulation  times,  infarcts,  morphological  changes  in  the  wall  of  small  arteries, 
oedema and congestion of the central nervous system, minor cardiac effects, and slight hyponatraemia. 
MEPACT  was  not  mutagenic and  did  not  cause teratogenic  effects in rats  and rabbits.  Embryotoxic 
effects were observed only at maternal toxic levels. 
There were no results from general toxicity studies that suggested harmful effects on male or female 
reproductive  organs.  Specific  studies  addressing  reproductive  function,  perinatal  toxicity  and 
carcinogenic potential have not been performed.  
Efficacy 
MEPACT  significantly  increased  the  overall  survival  of  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  resectable 
high-grade osteosarcoma when used in conjunction with combination chemotherapy when compared 
to chemotherapy alone. In a randomised phase III study of 678 patients (age range from 1.4 to 30.6 
years) with newly-diagnosed resectable high-grade osetosarcoma, the addition of adjuvant MEPACT 
to chemotherapy either doxorubicin cisplatin and methotrexate with or without ifosfamide resulted in a 
relative reduction in the risk of death of 28% (p = 0.0313, hazard ratio (HR) = 0.72 [95% confidence 
interval (CI): 0.53, 0.97]).  
Safety 
The safety of liposomal mifamurtide has been assessed in more than 700 patients with various kinds 
and stages of cancer and in 21 healthy adult subjects. Each of the 248 patients treated with MEPACT 
during the early phase single arm studies in patients with mostly advanced malignancies experienced 
at least one undesirable effect. Many of the most frequently reported undesirable effects are thought to 
be related to the mechanism of action of mifamurtide. The majority of these events were reported as 
either  mild  or  moderate. This profile is  consistent  whether summarising  all  early  studies (n=248)  or 
only  those  studies  in  osteosarcoma  (n=51).  It  is  likely  that  undesirable  effects  also  occurred  in  the 
large randomised study, but they were not recorded because only serious and life-threatening adverse 
reactions were collected in that study. 
Very common (≥1/10) adverse reactions associated with MEPACT were anaemia, anorexia, headache, 
dizziness, tachycardia, hypertension, hypotension, dyspnoea, tachypnoea, cough, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
constipation, abdominal pain, nausea, hyperhidrosis, myalgia, arthralgia, back pain, pain in extremity, 
fever, chills, fatigue, hypothermia, pain, malaise, asthenia, chest pain 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
A readability test was conducted and the results were submitted. The package leaflet had a minimum 
of  81%  or  greater  pass  rate  in  terms  of  locating  and  understanding  the  information.  The  user 
consultation was considered adequate. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Based on the data presented, the CHMP concluded that MEPACT significantly increased the overall 
survival  of  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  resectable  high-grade  osteosarcoma  when  used  in 
conjunction  with  combination  chemotherapy  when  compared  to  chemotherapy  alone.  Initially,  the 
CHMP had concerns that there remained important uncertainties about the mechanism of action, that 
important interactions had not been ruled out, that the evidence of efficacy from the pivotal clinical 
trial was difficult to interpret due to missing data and incomplete long-term follow-up of all patients, 
and that due to these reasons the efficacy and safety could not be considered as established. However, 
 48/49 
following the advice of the scientific advisory group and additional argumentations presented by the 
applicant  during  the  oral  explanation,  the  CHMP  considered  that  although  there  were  a  number  of 
uncertainties,  e.g.,  about  potential  interactions  with  intrinsic  or  extrinsic  factors,  the  effect  of  such 
potential interactions was considered to be small. Further pharmacokinetic studies will be conducted to 
address these issues. Similarly, although the pivotal trial data collection resulted in missing data and 
lack  of  extensive  long-term  follow-up,  this  was  not  considered  to  have  introduced  important  bias 
favouring  MEPACT.  Further  data  from  long-term  safety  studies  will  be  provided.  The  CHMP 
considered that based on the clinical efficacy data presented, treatment with MEPACT was associated 
with  clinically  significant  benefits  in  the  proposed  indication  and  that  in  view  of  the  benefits  the 
observed toxicity profile raised no particular concern, and concluded that the benefit-risk balance in 
the claimed indication was favourable. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  MEPACT  was  favourable  in  the  indication  “MEPACT  is 
indicated  in  children,  adolescents  and  young  adults  for  the  treatment  of  high-grade  resectable 
non-metastatic  osteosarcoma  after  macroscopically  complete  surgical  resection.  It  is  used  in 
combination with post-operative multi-agent chemotherapy. Safety and efficacy have been assessed in 
studies  of  patients  2  to  30  years  of  age  at  initial  diagnosis  (see  [SPC]  section  5.1)”  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation 
 49/49 
 
 
 
