EMA/435402/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004438 
Mepsevii (vestronidase alfa) 
An overview of Mepsevii and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mepsevii and what is it used for? 
Mepsevii is a medicine to treat mucopolysaccharidosis type VII (MPS VII, also known as Sly 
syndrome), an inherited disease caused by a lack of an enzyme needed to break down complex 
carbohydrates known as glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). 
MPS VII is rare, and Mepsevii was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) 
on 21 March 2012. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu312973.  
Mepsevii contains the active substance vestronidase alfa. 
How is Mepsevii used? 
Mepsevii is given every two weeks as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting 4 hours. The recommended 
dose for each infusion is 4 mg per kilogram of body weight. Before the infusion the patient is given 
antihistamine treatment to reduce the risk of allergic reactions. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given by an appropriately trained 
healthcare professional who can manage medical emergencies. Treatment should also be supervised 
by a healthcare professional with experience in the treatment of MPS VII.  
For more information about using Mepsevii, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Mepsevii work? 
Mepsevii is an enzyme replacement therapy that works by replacing the missing enzyme (beta-
glucuronidase) in patients with MPS VII, helping to break down GAGs and stopping them building up in 
the body.  
What benefits of Mepsevii have been shown in studies? 
Mepsevii has been shown to reduce the levels of GAGs in the body and reduce or stabilise symptoms in 
patients with MPS VII.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In a main study of 12 patients with MPS VII, patients treated with Mepsevii for 6 months had a 65% 
reduction in their urine levels of GAGs. In 11 out of 12 patients, symptoms, including those affecting 
vision and movement, improved or did not get worse. 
What are the risks associated with Mepsevii? 
The most common side effects with Mepsevii (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
anaphylactoid reaction (sudden, severe allergic reaction), urticaria (itchy rash), rash, extravasation at 
the infusion site (leakage of medicine in tissues surrounding the area of injection). Diarrhoea, pruritus 
(itching) and swelling at the infusion site were also reported (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people).  
Mepsevii must not be used in patients who have ever had anaphylactic reaction to vestronidase alfa or 
any of the other ingredients of the medicine. For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Mepsevii authorised in the EU? 
Mepsevii reduces the levels of GAGs in the body and improves or at least stabilises the symptoms of 
MPS VII. In addition, most side effects are mild to moderate in severity.  
Although only a limited amount of data is available from clinical studies, the European Medicines 
Agency took into account the life-threatening and debilitating nature of MPS VII and the lack of 
authorised medicines. EMA decided that Mepsevii’s benefits are greater than its risks and that it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Mepsevii has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Mepsevii due to the rarity of the disease and for 
scientific reasons. Every year, the Agency will review any new information that becomes available and 
this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Mepsevii? 
Since Mepsevii has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Mepsevii will conduct a study to provide data on the long-term effectiveness and safety of Mepsevii as 
well as on the disease itself, including its progression and development of symptoms. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mepsevii? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mepsevii have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mepsevii are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Mepsevii are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Mepsevii 
Mepsevii received a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances valid throughout the EU 
on 23 August 2018. 
Mepsevii (vestronidase alfa)  
EMA/435402/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Mepsevii can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2020.  
Mepsevii (vestronidase alfa)  
EMA/435402/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
