Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue 
International Nonproprietary Name: methylthioninium chloride 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002108 
Note 
assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents  
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 19 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 23 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 34 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 39 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 45 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 47 
Page 2/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
BIS 
Bispectral index 
BLMB 
Benzoyl leuco methylene blue  
BP 
British Pharmacopeia 
CHMP 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use   
CNS 
Central nervous system 
DRF 
Dose-ranging finding 
EMA 
European Medicines Agency 
ERA 
Environmental risk assessment 
GC 
Gas Chromatography 
G6PD 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase 
GLP 
Good Laboratory Practice  
HPLC 
High-performance liquid chromatography 
ICH 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
ICP-MS 
Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectroscopy 
IR 
IV 
Infrared Spectroscopy  
Intravenous 
LMB 
Leucomethylene blue 
LOD 
Limit of detection  
LOQ 
Limit of quantification  
MB 
Methylene blue 
MetHB 
Methaemoglobin 
NADH 
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
NADPH 
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate 
NOAEL 
No-observed adverse effect level  
NTP 
National Toxicology Program 
Ph Eur 
European Pharmacopoeia 
RMP 
Risk management plan 
SmPC 
Summary of product characteristics  
USP 
United States Pharmacopeia 
Page 3/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Provepharm  S.A.S.  submitted  on  30  December  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue, 
through the centralised procedure under Article 3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility 
to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 June 2009. The eligibility to the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on 
demonstration of significant technical innovation. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  10(3)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  – 
Hybrid application. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Reference medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions 
in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
- 
Product  name,  strength,  pharmaceutical  form:  Methylthioninium  Chloride  Injection  USP  1%, 
solution for injection, 10 mg/ml 
-  Marketing authorisation holder: Martindale Pharmaceuticals Limited 
-  Date of authorisation: 3 November 1987 
-  Marketing authorisation granted by: United Kingdom 
-  Marketing authorisation number: PL 00156/0039 
Reference  medicinal  product  authorised  in  the  Community/Member  State  where  the  application  is 
made: 
- 
Product  name,  strength,  pharmaceutical  form:  Methylthioninium  Chloride  Injection  USP  1%, 
solution for injection, 10 mg/ml 
-  Marketing authorisation holder: Martindale Pharmaceuticals Limited 
-  Date of authorisation: 3 November 1987 
-  Marketing authorisation granted by: United Kingdom 
-  Marketing authorisation number: PL 00156/0039 
Differences compared to the reference medicinal product: change in therapeutic indication (to extend 
the indication to the treatment of chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia and to the use in 
children) and change in strength (quantitative change to the active substance). 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  bibliographic  literature  substituting  all  non-clinical  tests  and  clinical 
studies. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  Treatment  of  medicinal  and  chemical  products- 
induced methaemoglobinaemia. Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is indicated in adults and children 
above the age of 3 months. 
Page 4/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Scientific Advice: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  25  June 2009.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder   
Co-Rapporteur:  Patrick Salmon  
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 30 December 2009. 
The procedure started on 20 January 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 April 2010. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 April 2010.   
  During the meeting on 17-20 May 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on 
21 May 2010. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
13 October 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 26 November 2010. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  13-16 December 2010,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 13 January 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 31 January 2011. 
  During the meeting on 14-17 February 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue on 17 February 2011. 
 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 6 May 2011. 
Page 5/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Methaemoglobinaemia  is  characterised  by  a  reduced  ability  of  the  blood  to  carry  oxygen  because  of 
reduced  levels  of  normal  haemoglobin.  Therefore,  this  condition  manifests  as  tissue  hypoxia  and 
ischemia.  Methaemoglobinaemia  can  be  either  inherited  or  acquired  following  the  exposure  to  toxic 
agents, the latter being more common. Acquired methaemoglobinaemia occurs after exposure to drugs, 
toxins,  or  their  metabolites  or  may  arise  from  dietary  aetiologies.  These  may  include  chlorate  and 
bromate 
local  anaesthetics,  antibiotics 
(e.g. 
trimethoprim, 
sulfonamides  and  dapsone), 
metoclopramide,  zopliclone,  nitrates  and  nitrites  from  food,  water  chemical  and  medicines,  aniline 
products and pesticides. 
Acquired  methaemoglobinaemia  is  a  rare  condition  with  an  approximate  estimate  of  75  patients 
suffering  from  acquired methaemoglobinaemia  per  year in  Europe.  Infants  are  more likely  to  develop 
methaemoglobinaemia due to several factors related to their young age. The redox protective system 
is not mature before the age of 3 months and the gastric pH in infants encourages the conversion of 
nitrates into nitrites. Furthermore, the frequency of poisonings is two to four times higher for children 
under four years than for adults. The elderly are subject to methaemoglobinaemia when suffering from 
anaemia or cardiopulmonary disorders, especially since Diaphorase I (NADH) is less responsive. 
Acute methaemoglobinaemia may be life-threatening and requires an emergency treatment. Treatment 
of  methaemoglobinaemia  relies  on  rapid  identification  of  the  condition,  the  removal  of  the  offending 
drug  or  toxin  and  the  administration  of  substances  that  rapidly  convert  the  ferric  iron  back  to  its 
ferrous  state.  Currently,  a  consensus  opinion  exists  among  the  medical  community  using 
methylthioninium chloride in case of methaemoglobinaemia.  
The eligibility to the centralised procedure based on demonstration of significant technical innovation 
was  granted  as  at  present  there  is  no  commercial  source  of  methylthioninium  chloride  active 
substance in compliance with Ph Eur. Methylthioninium chloride has a strong affinity for metals, and it 
is difficult to manufacture a substance that complies with the Ph Eur monograph. The applicant utilises 
a manufacturing process which allows obtaining an active substance which is metal-free and contains 
very low levels of organic impurities. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  acts  as  an  electron  donor 
for  the  non-enzymatic  reduction  of 
methaemoglobinaemia.  A  distinct  enzyme,  NADPH  methaemoglobin 
reductase, 
converts 
methylthioninium  chloride  (the  oxidized  form)  to  leucomethylene  blue  (LMB,  i.e.  the  reduced  form), 
using NADPH. The reduced form then chemically reduces methaemoglobin (Hgb(Fe3+)) to haemoglobin 
(Hgb(Fe2+)). 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  provided  as  a  solution  for  injection,  5  mg/ml,  and  is  intended 
for  intravenous  usage  administered  by  healthcare  professionals  only.  The  usual  dose  in  adults  and 
children is 1 to 2 mg (0.2-0.4 ml) per kg body weight over a period of 5 minutes. In infants  3 months 
the  recommended  dose  is  0.3  to  0.5  mg  (0.06  to  0.1 ml)  per  kg  body  weight  over  a  period  of 
5 minutes.  A  repeat  dose  may  be  given  after  one  hour  if  required  (see  SmPC).  The  maximum 
recommended  total  dose  in  adults  and  children  is  7 mg/kg.  There  are  no  dose  adjustments 
recommended  in  organ  impairment,  but  caution  is  recommended  in  moderate  and  severe  renal 
impairment. 
Since  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  hypotonic  the  SmPC  suggest  that  it  may  be  diluted  in 
glucose  5%  solution  for  injection.  It  should  be  noted  that  dilution  with  sodium  chloride  solution  for 
injection should be avoided because chloride reduces the solubility of methylthioninium chloride. 
Page 6/47
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  presented  as  solution  for  injection,  containing  50  mg  of 
methylthioninium  chloride  (active  substance)  in  10 ml  (5 mg/ml).  The  only  excipient  is  water  for 
injections. 
The  solution  is  clear,  deep  blue  with  a  pH  value  between  3.0  and  4.5  and  osmolality  between 
10 and 15 mOsm/kg.  
The product is supplied in 10 ml type I glass ampoules. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Methylthioninium  chloride  (INN),  also  known  as  methylene  blue  (USAN  name),  is  chemically 
designated as 3,7-bis(dimethylamino)-phenazathionium chloride as has the following structure: 
Methylthioninium  chloride  is  a  dark  blue,  crystalline  powder  with  a  copper-coloured  sheen  or  green 
crystals with a bronze-coloured sheen. 
The solubility of methylthioninium chloride has been determined in water at different temperatures. The 
substance is slightly soluble in water and very slightly soluble in DMSO and ethanol. 
In  addition,  the  potential  for  precipitation  of  methylthioninium  chloride  diluted  in  NaCl  0.9% w/v  has 
been  investigated.  The  presence  of  NaCl  could  lead  to  precipitation  of  the  active  substance.  Solubility 
measurements  have  been  undertaken  in  pure  water  and  in  water  at  different  pH  where  the  ionic 
strength  was  adjusted  by  KCl.  Significant  differences  were  observed.  This  difference  is  attributed  to  a 
common ion effect with the chloride ions. Chloride ions decrease the solubility by a factor of 50. 
The molecule of methylthioninium chloride is highly charged and the pKa is in the range 0-1. The log P 
value (octanol:phosphate pH 7 buffer) is -0.9, and the log D value is 0.06.  
Several  polymorphic  forms  of  methylthioninium  chloride  exist.  As  the  finished  product  is  a  solution  of 
the  active  substance,  the  polymorphic  form  is  not  considered  relevant  for  the  finished  product  in  this 
case. 
Manufacture 
A technical innovation in the manufacturing process leads to a substance which is essentially free from 
heavy metal impurities. This is based on a metals-free synthesis route, where no purification step to 
remove metals is included. The process has been patented by the applicant.  
The  aim  of  the  development  was  to  obtain  methylthioninium  chloride  compliant  with  the  Ph Eur 
monograph, in particular with respect to metal levels and related substances suitable for intravenous 
use. 
Page 7/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  manufacturing  process  utilised  allows  obtaining  an  active  substance  which  is  metal-free  and 
contains  very  low  levels  of  organic  impurities.  Methylthioninium  chloride  has  a  strong  affinity  for 
metals, and it is difficult to manufacture a substance that complies with the Ph Eur monograph. 
The manufacturing process of the active substance has been described in sufficient detail. The critical 
steps  and  intermediates  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  the  process  controls  have  been 
justified.  The  process  has  been  prospectively  validated  on  three  production  scale  batches.  Results 
confirm  that  the  process  can  yield  a  consistent  and  reproducible  substance  which  complies  with  the 
acceptance criteria, and which has a low metal content. 
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  methylthioninum  chloride  was  provided  by  the  route  of 
synthesis  and  it  has  been  verified  by  IR  and  UV  spectroscopy.  This  is  normally  not  considered 
satisfactory,  but  since  this  is  a  well-known  compendial  substance  and  comparison  with  the  Ph  Eur 
methylthioninium  chloride  CRS  has  been  performed,  this  was  regarded  sufficient  for  the  general 
structure elucidation. 
Potential  impurities  have  been  well  discussed  in  relation  to  their  origin  (raw  material,  manufacturing 
process and degradation products) and potential carry-over into the final drug substance. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  is  in  compliance  with  the  Ph Eur  monograph  for  methylthioninium 
chloride,  except  for  solubility  in  water  and  ethanol.  This  difference  may  arise  from  the  purification 
process in this case. The specification includes tests for identity (UV/VIS, TLC, colour reaction, reaction 
of chlorides), appearance, solubility (water and ethanol), assay, related substances, metals (Al, Cd, Cr, 
Cu,  Sn,  Fe,  Mn,  Hg,  Mo,  Ni,  Pb,  Zn),  loss  on  drying,  sulphated  ash,  methanol-insoluble  substances, 
residual solvents (GC and HPLC), pH, impurities from synthesis, microbial purity and endotoxins. 
The active substance is tested with methods according to the Ph Eur monograph for methylthioninium 
chloride  for  appearance,  solubility,  assay,  identification,  methanol-insoluble  substances,  related 
substances (Azure B, each other, sum of impurities other than Azure B), loss on drying and sulphated 
ash.  The  trace  metals  are  determined  by  in-house  ICP-MS  method  which  is  similar  to  the  one 
prescribed  in  the  Ph Eur  monograph.    Residual  solvents  are  determined  by  GC  and  HPLC  methods. 
Impurities from synthesis are quantified by a HPLC method with UV detection and compendial methods 
are used for the microbiological tests.  
Non-compendial methods have been validated (trace elements by ICP-MS, residual solvents by GC and 
HPLC, synthesis impurities by HPLC).  
The ICP-MS method has been validated for the respective metals for linearity, accuracy and precision 
in  appropriate  ranges.  The  limit  of  detection  (LOD)  and  limit  of  quantification  (LOQ)  have  also  been 
estimated and are considered sufficient to allow accurate and  precise determination at the respective 
specification limits. The specificity of the method was not addressed in the validation, but the ICP-MS 
method can be considered inherently specific for the respective elements.  
The  residual  solvents  method  has  been  satisfactorily  validated  in  suitable  ranges  for  specificity, 
linearity, accuracy and precision. The LOD and LOQ have been estimated and are considered sufficient 
for the determination of the solvents. The stability of solutions has also been evaluated.  
The  HPLC  method  for  residual  solvent  has  been  satisfactorily  validated  for  linearity,  accuracy  and 
precision in suitable ranges. The stability of solutions has also been investigated. Specificity has been 
verified by chromatograms.  
Page 8/47
 
 
 
 
 
The  HPLC  method  for  synthesis  impurities  has  been  suitably  validated  for  each  of  the  synthesis 
impurities as regards linearity, accuracy and precision. LOD and LOQ have been estimated and verified. 
Specificity  has  been  demonstrated  by  relevant  chromatograms.  The  stability  of  solutions  and  the 
robustness of the method have also been evaluated.  
Batch  analysis  data  were  provided  for  three  production  scale  batches  manufactured  by  the  proposed 
commercial manufacturer according to the process. Results complied with the proposed specifications. 
The  residual  solvents  and  trace  metal  contents  were  below  LOQ.  It  can  be  concluded  that  the  batch 
analysis  results  indicate  that  the  process  is  under  control  and  the  substance  of  acceptable  purity  is 
consistently produced. 
Stability 
Stability  studies  according  to  ICH  guidelines  have been  initiated  on  three  production  scale  batches  of 
the  drug  substance.  The  batches  are  stored  at  accelerated  (40C/75%  RH)  and  long  term  conditions 
(25C/60%  RH,  30C/65%  RH)  and  kept  in  the  proposed  container  closure  system.  The  testing  is 
performed against the specification and with the proposed methods.  
Supportive stability data from three pilot scale batches were also provided.  
In addition forced degradation studies have been conducted on one pilot batch of the drug substance. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  in  solution  was  treated  with  HCl,  NaOH  or  hydrogen  peroxide.  The  drug 
substance  in  the  solid  state  has  also  been  subjected  to  testing  upon  exposure  to  light  (500  W/h/m2) 
and elevated temperature. The untreated sample was used as reference. Obtained results showed that 
methylthioninium chloride is sensitive to light, alkaline and acid conditions.  
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
The products found on the EU market, both registered and unregistered products, as well as in the US 
were  described  as  1%  solutions  of  methylthioninium  chloride.  The  BP  only  gives  the  content  as 
methylthioninium chloride trihydrate  95.0-105.0% of the label claim without specifying any particular 
strength of the drug product.  
The  objective  of  the  formulation  development  has  been  to  obtain  a  solution  for  injection  of 
methylthioninium chloride complying with the general monographs of the Ph Eur and also with the BP 
monograph  Methylthioninium  Injection  for  use  in  the  treatment  of  medicinal  and  chemical  products-
induced methaemoglobinaemia. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  manufactured  by  the  applicant  is  very  low  in  both  organic  and  inorganic 
impurities  and  fulfils  the  strict  criteria  for  metal  contents  of  the  Ph  Eur.  The  applicant  has  found  a 
strong common ion effect (Cl-) on solubility, and dilution of the product with saline should be avoided. 
Because  of  the  lower  solubility  of  the  substance  as  compared  to  other  less  pure  grades  of 
methylthioninium chloride, it has not been considered suitable to manufacture a finished product with 
the same strength as the reference product, 10 mg/ml. Instead, the 5 mg/ml strength was proposed to 
avoid  precipitation.  As  the  solubility  is  also  very  temperature  dependent  the  product  should  not  be 
refrigerated or frozen to avoid precipitation. 
The  USP  and  BP  monographs  for  methylthioninium  chloride  injection  require  that  the  pH  value  is  of 
3.0-4.5.  This  criterion  was  adopted  for  the  proposed  formulation,  especially  because  at  higher  pHs, 
degradation was observed upon autoclave sterilisation. 
Page 9/47
 
 
 
 
 
Methylthioninium chloride is sensitive to light and because of this the primary packaging suitable would 
be  brown  glass.  However,  methylthioninium  chloride  absorbs  metals  from  the  brown  glass  material 
both  in  solution  and  in  the  solid  state,  and  thus  clear  glass  ampoules  were  chosen  as  the  primary 
packaging. A storage precaution to protect the product from light by keeping the ampoules in the outer 
carton  was  included  in  the  product  information.  Chloride  ions  significantly  reduce  the  solubility 
methylthioninium chloride and the finished product is not compatible with 0.9% saline due to risk for 
precipitation. Compatibility with 5% glucose solution has been demonstrated. 
Manufacturing  process  development  has  been  well  documented.  It  has  been  shown  that  the 
manufacturing process is robust and its choice was considered justified.  
The  formulation  development  was  generally  described  satisfactorily.  The  key  critical  parameters  were 
identified and successfully evaluated. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the substances used in the manufacture of Methylthoninium chloride Proveblue is of human or 
animal origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing is standard and involves dissolution, filtration and terminal sterilisation. The critical 
steps in the process have been identified and described and the process has been sufficiently validated 
with  three  consecutive  production  scale  batches.  A  bulk  holding  time  was  considered  acceptable.  The 
bulk solution is filtrated through 0.2 µm before filling and the product is terminally sterilised according 
to  Ph Eur  criteria  (121C  for  20  minutes).  The  sterilisation  step  has  been  demonstrated  to  not  have 
effect  on  the  appearance,  pH  and  assay.  The  validation  batches passed  the  sterilisation  test  and  also 
complied  in  all  instances  with  the  finished  product  specifications.  The  filter  used  in  the  process  has 
been adequately validated. The process is able to produce a product of consistent and adequate quality.  
Product specification 
The product specifications include tests for appearance, pH, extractable volume, uniformity of dosage 
units, identification (TLC and HPLC), assay (and identification), related substances (HPLC), particulate 
contamination, sterility, bacterial endotoxins. 
Analytical methods have been sufficiently described, some of them are compendial methods described 
in the Ph Eur. Adequate validation data have been provided for non-compendial methods. 
Validation  information  has  been  provided  for  the  HPLC  methods  for  assay  of  the  active  and  the  two 
methods  for  impurities.  The  remaining  methods  are  compendial.  For  sterility  and  endotoxin  tests  the 
applicant  demonstrated  these  methods  were  suitable  for  the  methylthioninium  chloride  containing 
product.  
Batch analysis results on three commercial scale batches demonstrated compliance with the proposed 
specifications  and  confirmed  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  product.  The  results  were  consistent 
from  batch  to  batch  and  proved  that  the  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the 
agreed specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  according  to  ICH  guidelines  are  on-going  for  three  commercial  scale  and  two  pilot 
scale batches of finished product in its marketing package. 
Page 10/47
 
 
 
 
 
The  studies  comprise  accelerated  (40C/75%  RH)  and  long  term  storage  (25C/60%  RH,  30C/65% 
RH) according to ICH guidelines. 
A  photo-stability  study  has  also  been  carried  out  on  one  batch  of  finished  product.  The  study  was 
performed  according  to  ICH  Q1B.  The  following  samples  were  subjected  to  light:  Naked  ampoules, 
ampoules  in  blister  without  paper  cover,  ampoules  in  blister  and  with  paper  cover.  An  ampoule  not 
subjected  to  light  served  as  reference.  No  other  forced  degradation  studies  have  been  conducted  on 
the finished product as it is only an aqueous solution of the drug substance. 
It  is  stated  in  the  Ph  Eur  monograph  that  methylthioninium  chloride  should be  stored  protected  from 
light  and  this  was  confirmed  in  the  forced  degradation  studies  on  the  drug  substance.  Although  the 
photodegradation was not observed during the testing it is proposed that the product is stored in the 
outer carton on order to protect from light. 
The  results  generated  during  the  stability  studies  and  statistical  analyses  support  the  proposed  shelf 
life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.4 Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  about  the  active  substance,  methylthioninium  chloride,  has  been  provided.  The  active 
substance  is  a  known  substance  with  a  monograph  in  the  Ph  Eur.  The  applicant  utilises  a 
manufacturing  process  which  allows  obtaining  an  active  substance  in  a  form  which  has  a  low  metal 
content and contains low levels of organic impurities, and is therefore suitable for intravenous use.  
The impurity profile of methylthioninium chloride has been satisfactorily addressed. 
The control tests and specifications for drug substance product are satisfactory and in accordance with 
the Ph Eur monograph for this substance. 
A retest period was supported by satisfactory stability studies. 
The finished product is a  simple aqueous solution of methylthioninium chloride in water for injections 
filled in a glass ampoule and terminally sterilised in an autoclave.  
The  method  of  manufacture  is  considered  standard  and  has  been  satisfactorily  described,  including 
hold times and in-process tests. The scale of manufacture is supported by batch data. The data shows 
consistent manufacture and is considered sufficient for this standard manufacturing process. 
The product is controlled according to acceptable specifications. The batch data demonstrate consistent 
manufacture. 
The  stability  programme  is  considered  satisfactory.  The  batches  placed  on  stability  are  considered 
representative  of  the  product  to  be  marketed.  The  results  generated  during  the  stability  studies 
support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.5 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  drug  substance  and  the  drug  product  have  been  appropriately  characterised  and  generally 
satisfactory documentation has been  provided. The results indicate that the active substance and the 
finished  product  can  be  reproducibly  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  is  suitable  for 
intravenous use and should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Page 11/47
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  non  clinical  development  program  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  mainly  based  on 
bibliographical data. 
Some  complementary  studies  have  been  performed 
to  bridge 
to 
the  reference  product 
(Methylthioninium  Chloride  Injection  USP  1%  w/v,  marketing  authorisation  holder:  Martindale 
Pharmaceuticals Limited authorised in UK). 
Two  of  the  studies  submitted  by  the  applicant  were  GLP  compliant,  the  Ames  test  and  the  1-month 
repeat-dose toxicity study in dogs. 
Methylthioninium chloride is also known as methylene blue (MB). 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Methaemoglobinaemia  is  characterised  by  a  reduced  ability  of  the  blood  to  carry  oxygen  because  of 
reduced  levels  of  normal  haemoglobin.  Therefore,  this  condition  manifests  as  tissue  hypoxia  and 
ischemia.  
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
In  human  and  veterinary  medicine,  methylthioninium  chloride  is  primarily  prescribed  for  acquired 
methemoglobinemia  arising 
from  the 
ingestion  of  nitrites,  quinines,  aniline,  nitrobenzenes, 
nitrotoluenes,  and  sulfonamides  –  compounds  which  oxidize  hemoglobin  (Fe2+)  to  methemoglobin 
(Fe3+).  The  presence  of  methemoglobin  decreases  the  oxygen-carrying  capacity  of  the  blood  and 
shifts the oxygen dissociation curve to the left. In the erythrocyte, methemoglobin is chiefly reduced to 
hemoglobin via methemoglobin reductase which utilises reduced NAD as the electron donor. A second 
pathway  uses  reduced  NADPH  derived  from  the  metabolism  of  glucose  via  glucose-6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase  (G6PD).  In  the  case  of  poisoning,  the  intrinsic  ability  of  the  red  blood  cell  to  reduce 
methemoglobin  is  rapidly  overwhelmed.  In  these  cases,  an  exogenous  electron  donor,  usually 
methylthioninium chloride is administered. In the erythrocyte, methylthioninium chloride is reduced to 
the colourless leucomethylene blue only by NADPH. Leucomethylene blue then reduces methemoglobin 
nonenzymatically, resulting in hemoglobin and methylthioninium chloride. The leuco form of the dye is 
regenerated by NADPH completing the cycle (see Figure 1). Methylthioninium chloride is administered 
either iv or orally for the treatment of acute and idiopathic methemoglobinemia. 
Figure 1: Reduction of methaemoglobin to haemoglobin by NADPH reductase.  
Page 12/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  submitted.  The  applicant  submitted  bibliographic  data  to 
support the application (data not shown). 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies were submitted. The applicant submitted bibliographic data to 
support the application (data not shown). 
Safety pharmacology programme 
MB acts as a cofactor accelerating the conversion of methaemoglobin to haemoglobin in erythrocytes. 
However,  at  higher  concentrations,  MB  can  cause  some  conversion  of  haemoglobin  back  to 
methaemoglobin  and  may  cause  methaemoglobinaemia.  Haemolysis  has  also  been  noted;  however, 
this effect is more evident in in vitro studies and may be minimal in intact erythrocytes.  
Cardiovascular system 
Following  bolus  intravenous  injections  of  MB  in  rats  (5  and  50  mg/kg)  blood  pressure  and  heart  rate 
remained within the normal physiologic ranges (Vutskits 2008).  
However, an increase in blood pressure followed by hypotension was observed following administration 
of MB at 10 and 20 mg/kg IV (Oktay 1993). The effects on blood pressure  appeared to  be transient. 
Clinical  experience  with  MB  indicates  that  at  therapeutic  dose  (1mg/kg)  there  are  no  significant 
cardiovascular  effects  of  MB.  However,  at  7  mg/kg  iv  (the  maximum  daily  recommended  dose), 
electrocardiogram  changes  (T  wave  flattening  or  inversion)  have  been  reported  in  humans  without 
methaemoglobinaemia, resolving within 2–12 hours of the injection (Bradberry 2003). 
Respiratory Function 
Direct  effects  of  MB  on  the  respiratory  system  are  expected  to  be  limited  compared  to  the  impact  of 
methaemoglobinaemia, since reduced levels of haemoglobin are expected to result in a compensatory 
increase in respiratory parameters such as rate and volume.  
Central Nervous system 
Neurotoxic effects after administration of MB in vitro and in vivo have been reported in the literature. 
The  incubation  of  slices  of  young  rat  cerebellum  incubated  for  one  hour  with  MB  (10  to  100  μM), 
caused a progressive destruction of the differentiating cells (Garthwaite 1988). Similarly, a suppression 
of evoked excitatory field potentials in hippocampal slices at 1h following incubation with 10 μM MB has 
been  reported;  this  was  associated  with  an  increase  in  dying  cells  at  doses  of  10  μM  MB  (Vutskits 
2008).  Intrathecal  administration  of  MB  in  cats  resulted  in  neuronal  damage  and  inflammation  and 
associated  paraplegia.  In  humans,  doses  of  5-10  mg/kg  iv  during  parathyroidectomy  have  been 
associated with prolonged post operative disorientation and were associated with serotonin toxicity. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  significant  nonclinical  data  on  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  have  been  reported  in 
association with MB. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Rats receiving a single IV administration of non-radiolabelled methylthioninium chloride at 2, 5, 7.5, 10, 
15  and  25  mg/kg  and  were  examined  at  3  min  post  dose.  Four  tissues  (kidney>heart>liver>lung) 
concentrated 25-36% of the dose, indicating very rapid uptake into tissues (Disanto 1972/III). 
Page 13/47
 
 
 
 
 
Tissue  distribution  was  also  measured  in  rats  1  h  after  receiving  a  single  intraduodenal  or  IV 
administration of non-radiolabelled methylthioninium chloride. Following IV administration, the highest 
concentrations  were  measured  in  bile>brain>liver>blood,  with  no  methylthioninium  chloride  in 
intestinal  wall.  Following 
intraduodenal  administration,  the  highest  concentrations  were 
in 
bile>intestinal wall>liver>brain, with no methylthioninium chloride measured in blood. Following both 
routes of administration, levels in tissues were up to hundred times that measured in blood. The high 
concentration  in  bile  after  both  routes  of  administration  indicates  that  this  was  a  major  route  of 
elimination  (Peter  2000).  Methylthioninium  chloride  radiolabelled  with  123I  and  221At  was  shown  to  be 
strongly  bound  to  pigmented  tissues.  There  was  no  obvious  retention  of  radio-iodinated 
methylthioninium chloride in the brain over the observation period and in the eyes for at least the first 
14 h (Link 1989; Link 1996). 
In  rabbits,  the  level  of  plasma  protein  binding  was  measured  in  vitro  at  71-77%,  increasing  with 
concentration.  Binding  to  BSA  was  of  the  same  order  (64-71%)  but  had  no  relationship  with 
concentration (Kozaki 1981). 
In the rat, following intra-duodenal and intravenous administration of MB, the bile was indicated as a 
major route of elimination (Peter 2000). In the rabbit, MB was excreted into urine and bile mostly as 
leucomethylene  blue  (Watanabe  1977a).  In  male  dogs  receiving  a  single  oral  administration  of  non-
radio-labelled MB, 3.9% was recovered in the urine and 44.3% in the faeces Watanabe (1977b). 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The following five studies were submitted: 
  Zebrafish study carried out with three different sources of MB active substances. 
  A mitochondrial study on living human fibroblasts to compare the toxicity of Methylthioninium 
chloride Proveblue and USP reference standard MB.   
  An Ames test on three different sources of methylene blue active substances. 
  A  dose-ranging  finding  study  in  Beagle  dogs  to  select  the  dose  levels  for  the  1-month  repeat 
dose study. This study was performed with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue. 
  A  1-month  IV  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  in  Beagle  dogs  to  evaluate  the  potential  toxicity  of 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  5  mg/ml  solution  for  injection  and  compare  the 
toxicological profile to the reference medicinal product. 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity data from the literature were submitted as part of the application. No studies were 
conducted by the applicant. 
In  a  study  in  sheep,  a  toxicological  assessment  was  conducted  using  LD50  determination,  MetHb 
production  and  haematological  effects  as  evaluation  parameters.  From  these  data,  it  appears  that  as 
conditions  may  warrant,  the  dosage  of  methylthioninium  chloride  may  be  safely  increased  up  to  at 
least 15 mg/kg in sheep in therapy of severe methaemoglobinaemias (Burrows 1984). 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Reports  from  the  US  National  Toxicology  Program  (NTP)  investigating  the  effects  of  MB  trihydrate  on 
male  and  female  rats  and  mice, in  compliance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practice  (GLP)  Regulations  were 
Page 14/47
 
 
 
 
 
submitted.  The  applicant  performed  a  two-phase  dose-range  finding  study  and  a  pivotal  1-month 
repeat-dose toxicity study in Beagle dogs (see table 1). 
Table 1: Repeat-dose toxicity studies on Methylthioninium chloride 
Reference 
Duration 
Species 
Study Design 
Results/Conclusions 
NTP TR540 
2008 
1 month  
Mouse 
Rat 
NTP TR540 
2008 
3 months   Mouse 
Rat 
Study  
N° 36109 TSC 
(Provepharm) 
14 days 
Dog 
Study  
N° 36110 TSC 
(Provepharm) 
1 month 
Dog 
Groups of 10 male 
and 10 female mice 
(B6C3F1) and rats 
(F344/N) 
Doses: 0, 125, 250, 
500, 1000, 2000 
mg/kg body 
weight/day; 5 days 
per week for 5 
weeks; by oral 
gavage 
Observations of 
organs, haematology 
and chemistry tests, 
complete 
histopathology 
performed  
Groups of 10 male 
and 10 female mice 
(B6C3F1) and rats 
(F344/N) 
Doses: 0, 25, 50, 
100 or 200 
mg/kg/day; 5 days 
per week for 14 
weeks; by oral 
gavage 
Observations of 
organs, haematology 
and chemistry tests, 
complete 
histopathology 
performed 
Two-phase dose 
range-finding study 
for the 1-month 
study 
Slow IV infusion of 
Proveblue® 
(constant 
concentration of 5 
mg/mL) in 4 beagle 
dogs 
Dose levels tested:  
- Phase I (1 male 
and 1 female): 7.5 
mg/kg/day for 4 
days and 15 
mg/kg/day for 1 day 
- Phase II (1 male): 
1.5 mg/kg/day 
during 14 days 
- Phase III (1 
female): 0.3 
mg/kg/day during 
14 days 
4-week toxicity 
study by slow 
intravenous infusion 
to beagle dogs. 
5 groups of 3 males 
and 3 females:  
- 1 control group  
- 3 groups with 
- Mice: none of the mice in the 500, 1000 or 
2000 mg/kg/d groups survived to the end of the 
study. Survival in the 250 mg/kg/d group was 
also reduced relative to control animals. 
Lesions in spleen, liver and forestomach 
associated with MB treatment. 
- Rats: at doses of 500 mg/kg and above, 
effects on the haematopoietic system and early 
deaths were observed. Toxicity observed: 
methaemoglobinaemia followed by anaemia, 
haemosiderin pigment deposition in the liver and 
kidney and subsequent hepato- and nephro-
toxicity. Spleen and liver lesions associated with 
MB treatment. 
- Mice: methaemoglobinaemia and regenerative 
Heinz body anaemia. Dose-dependent increase 
in spleen, heart and kidney weights and 
reduction in thymus weights. 
Decreased sperm motility and increased 
epididymal sperm counts in male at 200 mg/kg. 
- Rats: methaemoglobinaemia and regenerative 
Heinz body anaemia, significant increase in 
spleen weights, decrease in thymus and lung 
weights. Spleen lesions in dosed rats. Incidence 
of bone marrow hyperplasia significantly 
increased in groups administered 50 mg/kg MB 
or greater. No consistent effects of MB on 
reproductive system measures. 
Phase I: Treatment stopped from day 6 
because of important clinical signs of toxicity 
(cyanosis, hypoactivity) after one injection at 15 
mg/kg/day. Both animals prematurely sacrificed 
on day 7. Observation of marked anaemia and 
an important inhibition of neutrophilic 
peroxydase activity. Increase in absolute and 
relative spleen weights attributed to treatment 
Phase II: marked regenerative anaemia 
associated with increased platelet count, 
fibrinogen and total bilirubin.  Observation of 
high absolute and relative spleen weights 
attributed to treatment.  Increase in liver 
weights noted. Relationship to treatment could 
not be excluded 
Phase III: no clinical observation and no 
treatment-related laboratory findings. Treatment 
related high absolute and relative spleen weights 
observed. No treatment-related macroscopic 
findings noted. 
consumption, 
No  relevant  findings  were  noted  with  respect  to 
unscheduled  deaths,  clinical  signs,  bodyweight, 
food 
or 
electrocardiography  at  the  end  of  the  treatment 
period.  On  day  14,  males  and  females  receiving 
item  at  1.00  mg/kg/day  showed 
the  test 
moderate 
and 
macrocytic  anaemia  associated  with  increased 
ophthalmology 
regenerative, 
hypochromic 
Page 15/47
 
 
 
 
 
Reference 
Duration 
Species 
Study Design 
Results/Conclusions 
Methylthioninium 
chloride Proveblue 
(doses: 0.25, 0.5 
and 1 mg/kg/day) 
- 1 group with 
reference medicinal 
product (1 
mg/kg/day) 
This study is 
compliant with EMEA 
guideline “Note for 
guidance on 
repeated dose 
toxicity” (ref. 
CPMP/SWP/1042/99 
corr.). 
in  mean 
mean  platelet  count  and  fibrinogen  level.  At  the 
end  of  the  treatment  period,  a  dose-related 
decrease 
red  blood  cell  count, 
haemoglobin,  packed  cell  volume  and  mean  cell 
haemoglobin  concentration  associated  with  a 
dose-related  increased  mean  reticulocyte  and 
platelet counts were observed at all dose-levels. 
Few  Heinz  bodies  and  few  erythroblasts  were 
observed  at  1.00  mg/kg/day  (not  seen  in 
controls).  Mean  fibrinogen  levels  were  higher  in 
both males and females at 1.00 mg/kg/day. 
A  minimal  increase  in  mean  total  blood  bilirubin 
values were noted at 0.50 mg/kg/day and higher 
in  males  and  at  0.25  mg/kg/day  and  higher  in 
females  treated  with  the  test  item.  Moderate 
bilirubin  levels  were  observed  at  a  higher 
incidence  in  urines  in  all  treated  groups  in 
comparison to controls. 
Dose-related  increases  in  mean  spleen  weights 
were  correlated  with  increased  haemopoiesis 
(from  0.25  mg/kg/day)  and  congestion  (at  0.25 
mg/kg/day  and  higher  in  females,  and  at  0.50 
mg/kg/day and higher in males) in the spleen at 
microscopic  examination  of  animals  treated  with 
the test item. These findings were compensatory 
to the anaemia. Green/brown pigment consistent 
with  haemosiderosis  in  the  spleen  and  liver  at 
0.25  mg/kg/day  and  above,  kidneys  at  1.00 
mg/kg/day  (secondary  to  the  haemolysis  and 
increased  catabolism  of  haemoglobin)  were  also 
noted  at  microscopy.  In  addition,  increased 
cellularity  of  the  bone  marrow  was  noted  in  all 
high-dose animals. A trend towards an increased 
incidence  of  thickened  subcutaneous  tissue  at 
necropsy  and 
incidence  and/or  severity  of 
inflammatory  findings  at  the  injection  sites  in 
groups treated at 0.50 or 1.00 mg/kg/day which 
indicated  a  minimal  irritant  effect  of  the  test 
item.  Similar  laboratory  and  pathology  findings 
were reported in animals receiving the reference 
item  at  the  same  dose-level  of  1.00  mg/kg/day 
(effects on haematological parameters on day 14 
and  spleen  weights  at  necropsy  were  slightly 
more  marked  compared  to  the  test  item). 
Regenerative  anaemia  (decreased  mean  red 
blood  cell  count,  haemoglobin  and  packed  cell 
volume, 
increased  mean  reticulocyte  count, 
presence  of  Heinz  bodies  and  erythroblasts)was 
observed  with  treatment  and  the  degree  was 
associated  with  dose  (0.25  (minimal),  0.5 
(slight),  1.00  (moderate)).  At  each  dose  level 
regenerative  anaemia  was  associated  with  an 
observed increase in platelets and an increase in 
bilirubin.  Increased  spleen  weights  were  also 
associated with the anaemia. At  each dose level 
gree/ brown pigments were noted in the liver at 
all doses, in the spleen at the mid and high dose 
and  in  the  kidneys  only  at  the  top  dose  and  is 
considered  to  be  secondary  to  haemolysis  and 
increased  catabolism  of  haemoglobin.  At  the 
high  dose,  increased  cellularity  of  the  bone 
in  all  dogs  and  was 
marrow  was  noted 
considered  related  to  the  regenerative  anaemia. 
Inflammatory findings at the injection sites (mid 
and high dose) indicated a minimal irritant effect 
of  the  test  item,  which  was  also  observed  with 
the test item. 
Overall no no-observed adverse effect level 
could be identified, however based on the finding 
at the high dose methylthioninium chloride 
Page 16/47
 
 
 
 
 
Reference 
Duration 
Species 
Study Design 
Results/Conclusions 
Proveblue (5 mg/ml) is considered to have a 
similar toxicological and toxicokinetic profile at 
Methylene Blue injection USP 1% w/v following 
daily injection for 4 –weeks.  
Genotoxicity 
GLP compliant Ames test in Salmonella typhimurium was performed on the strains: TA1535, TA1537, 
TA98,  TA100  (3.9,  7.8,  15.6,  31.3,  62.5,  125  μg/plate)  and  on  the  TA102  strain  (15.6,  31.3,  62.5, 
125,  250,  500  μg/plate)  in  presence  or  absence  of  a  rat  liver  metabolising  system  (Aroclor  1254-
induced rat liver S9 mix) with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and two other MB products.  
All the three tested MB products were mutagenic in presence and absence of rat metabolising system, 
which confirms what is already known regarding MB. 
Methylthioninium chloride was mutagenic in gene mutation assays in mouse lymphoma cells but not in 
vivo mouse micronucleus assay when administered intravenously at 62 mg/kg.  
Carcinogenicity 
In 2 year study conducted by NTP, a carcinogenic potential was demonstrated in male mice (dosed up 
to 25 mg/kg/day) and in male rats (dosed up to 50 mg/kg/day). An equivocal evidence of carcinogenic 
activity was observed in female mice. No evidence of carcinogenic activity was observed in female rats 
(NTP report TR540). 
No carcinogenicity studies were performed by the applicant. This is acceptable since Methylthioninium 
chloride Proveblue will be used for short durations in emergency situations only. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
According to the scientific advice (EMEA/H/SA/1211/1/2009/SME/ III) given by the CHMP on 25 June 
2009, no reproductive toxicity studies were deemed necessary, but relevant reproductive toxicity data 
could be derived from the literature. The applicant presented publicly available data which showed that 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is to be considered a reproductive toxicant (data not shown). 
In vitro, Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue has been shown to reduce motility of human sperm in a 
dose  dependant  manner.  It  has  also  been  shown  to  inhibit  the  growth  of  cultured  two-cell  mouse 
embryos and the production of progesterone in cultured human luteal cells. 
In rats and rabbits, teratogenic effects have been reported, with foetal and maternal toxicity. In rats, 
increased resorption rates have been observed. The excretion of Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue 
in milk has not been studied in animals. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data have been submitted for the pivotal repeat dose toxicity study in Beagle dogs.  
Following single and repeat dosing, females appear to have a higher exposure (AUC) in comparison to 
males  at  the  higher  doses  (0.50  and  1.0  mg/kg)  and  this  sex  difference  is  also  reflected  in  the 
reference compound.  At equivalent doses, exposures (Cmax and AUC) appear to be higher in animals 
treated  with  the  reference  compound  and  this  difference  is  more  pronounced  in  males  than  females 
(see table 2).  
Page 17/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Toxicokinetic Data 
0.25 (Test item) 
0.50 (test item) 
1.00 (Test item) 
1.00 Reference 
Daily 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
M 
F 
M 
F 
M 
F 
M 
F 
25.5 
19.8 
47.6 
56.4 
116 
114 
150 
22.0 
16.3 
32.2 
65.6 
134 
172 
150 
124 
201 
0.5 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
Nc 
Nc 
27.9 
36.1 
57.1 
69.1 
91.5 
108 
27.3 
40.5 
74.8 
63.9 
129 
121 
112 
134 
Day 1 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
AUC 
(ng.hr/ml) 
Tmax (h) 
Day 28 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
AUC 
(ng.hr/ml) 
Tmax (h) 
0.083 
Note: No quantifiable plasma levels of test or reference item were detected in control animals. 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
0.083 
Nc 
The toxicokinetic profile for Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue can be considered comparable to the 
reference product in dogs following 4-week IV injection. 
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance at the site of administration was addressed within the dose-ranging finding study and 
in  the  1-month  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  in  dog.  In  the  DRF  study,  there  was  a  local  reaction 
characterised by red discoloration and a thickened subcutaneous tissue in the two dogs treated at the 
highest dose at 7.5 mg/kg however this study did not include control animals. Based on the results of 
the 1-month repeat dose toxicity study, it is considered that there is a slight irritant effect of both the 
test item and the reference item at both the mid and high dose.  
Other toxicity studies 
No studies on antigenicity, immunotoxicity, dependence, metabolites or impurities have been 
conducted which is considered acceptable. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  ERA  was  submitted  as  part  of  this  application.  Since  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is 
intended for use as a treatment of medicinal and chemical product-induced methaemoglobinaemia, and 
this treatment is not administered on more than one occasion during the lifetime of a patient, the dose 
was  annualised,  which  is  accepted  by  the  assessor.  The  PEC surface  water  calculated  was  below  the 
PEC action limit of <0.01 μg/l and no further environmental assessment is required.  
The  log  P  value,  determined  experimentally,  was  -0.9.  The  log  D  for  Methylthioninium  chloride 
Proveblue  was  0.06,  a  value  well  below  4.5  and  no  PBT  (Persistent,  bioaccumulative  and  toxic) 
assessment is required. 
2.3.6.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
The non clinical data submitted as part of this application are mainly from bibliographic sources. 
The way in which methylthioninium chloride is able to reduce methaemoglobin to haemoglobin is well 
known and understood and no studies on primary pharmacodynamics are necessary. Methylthioninium 
chloride  has  been  investigated  and  used  in  several  medical  conditions  as  described  in  the  literature, 
and no studies on secondary pharmacodynamics are deemed necessary. 
Page 18/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Pharmacodynamic drug interactions data have been submitted and this is considered acceptable.PK 
studies indicated that bile was the major route of elimination. 
Single dose toxicity data comes from the literature which is considered acceptable. 
A two-phase dose-range finding study in Beagle dogs dosed up to 7.5 mg/kg was conducted. The main 
effects  were  blood  related;  decreased  red  blood  cell  count,  haemoglobin  and  packed  cell  volume, 
increased reticulocytes and increased platelet count, fibrinogen and total bilirubin.  
In  addition,  the  applicant  performed  a  pivotal  1-month  intravenous  repeat-dose  toxicity  study 
(36110TSC)  in  Beagle  dogs.  No  no-observed  adverse  effect  level  (NOAEL)  could  be  identified.  The 
toxicity and toxicokinetic data for Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and the reference product were 
comparable  and  no  new  toxicities  were  identified  in  this  study  (regenerative  anaemia  and  associated 
findings) with respect to the studies previously reported. The observed findings are also considered to 
be in line with those observed within the literature for Methylthioninium chloride.  A slight local irritant 
effect of both the test item and the reference item was seen at both the mid and high dose.  
MB  is  mutagenic,  carcinogenic  and  is  considered  a  reproductive  toxicant.  These  risks  are  outweighed 
by the fact that MB is an antidote that could be life-saving in cases of methaemoglobinaemia. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  5 mg/ml  solution  for  injection  is  intended  to  be  used  as  an 
antidote  in  the  treatment  of  medicinal  and  chemical  products-induced  methaemoglobinaemia  and  the 
product belongs to the ATC code V03AB17.  
The indication applied for initially was the following: 
 
Treatment 
of  medicinal 
and 
chemical  products- 
induced  methaemoglobinaemia 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  indicated  in  adults  and  children  above  the  age  of  3 
months. 
The finally approved indication is as follows: 
  Acute 
symptomatic 
treatment 
of  medicinal 
and 
chemical 
products- 
induced 
methaemoglobinaemia. Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is indicated in adults, children and 
adolescents (aged 0 to 17 years old). 
A  scientific  advice  given  by  the  CHMP  on  25  June  2009  (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/357282/2009,  procedure 
number EMEA/H/SA/1211/1/2009/SME/III) concluded that a hybrid application was acceptable and the 
clinical  part  could  consist  of  bibliographical  data.  Furthermore,  the  CHMP  recommended  that  the 
applicant  should  demonstrate  that  the  change  of  concentration/solubility  of  the  active  substance  will 
not impact pharmacokinetics compared to the reference product. 
No clinical studies have been performed with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue but 2 in vitro studies 
were conducted by Provepharm to show similarity to the reference medicinal product:  
1.  plasma protein binding study with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and the reference product 
(study 17174) and  
2.  Cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  inhibition  assays  and  CYP  induction  assays  with  Methylthioninium 
chloride Proveblue and the reference product (study bd00196).  
Page 19/47
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  a  literature  search  was  performed  to  provide  support  for  the  three  changes  from  the 
reference product: 
- 
- 
the change of the concentration (5 mg/ml instead of 10 mg/ml); 
the addition of the indication “treatment of chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia”; 
-  and the use in children. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption  
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is administered intravenously injected very slowly over a period of 
5 minutes and information on absorption is therefore not required. 
Bioequivalence: 
The  Note 
for  guidance 
on 
the 
investigation 
of  bioavailability 
and  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) states that the applicant is not required to submit a bioequivalence study if 
the  product  is  to  be  administered  as  an  aqueous  intravenous  solution  containing  the  same  active 
substance in the same concentration as the reference product.  
For  this  product,  there  is  a  difference  in  the  strength  compared  with  the  reference  product. 
Furthermore,  there  appears  to  be  some  other  difference  as  well  with  respect  to  the  solubility  of  the 
active  drug  substance.  This  was  the  background  to  the  recommendation  by  the  CHMP,  i.e.  that  the 
applicant  should  demonstrate  that  the  change  of  concentration/solubility  of  the  active  substance  will 
not impact pharmacokinetics compared to the reference product. The applicant did not perform an in 
vivo  bioequivalence  study  but  provided  two  in  vitro  studies  in  conjunction  with  the  published 
pharmacokinetic data to demonstrate that there was no difference between the products with respect 
to the pharmacokinetic features. 
Distribution 
The  in  vitro  protein  binding  in  human  plasma  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  and 
Methylthioninium  chloride  USP  was  estimated  at  a  test  concentration  of  10 μM  employing  equilibrium 
dialysis (18±2 hours at 37°C, 12-14 K MWCO dialysis membrane 0.05 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.5). An 
HPLC-MS/MS method was applied to measured drug substance. The results are shown in table 3. 
Table 3: Results of protein binding study 
Page 20/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
There  are  few  publications  describing  the  pharmacokinetic  fate  in  vivo  in  humans.  Following 
intravenous  and  oral  administration,  blood  concentrations  exhibit  a  multi-phasic  time  course  with  a 
terminal  half-life  around  5  hours  but  other  results  have  also  been  reported  (half-life  in  plasma  and 
blood  of  approximately  18  hours  and  14-15  hours,  respectively).  Differences  are  probably  due  to 
varying  analytical  methods  and/or  sampling  periods  and  the  longer  half-lives  were  observed  in  the 
more  recent  studies  with  long  sampling  periods  (up  to  24  hours  post-dose),  adequate  analytical 
methods which therefore appear more reliable.  
Renal elimination of MB and LMB appears to be a major elimination pathway, but varying figures of the 
extent have been reported: 29% and 74% of the dose, respectively, was reported to be excreted in 
the urine as MB and LMB in two different publications. It is uncertain if additional elimination pathways 
for MB are present. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The  inhibition  and  induction  of  the  CYP450  was  studied  by  the  applicant.  The  objective  of  this  study 
was  to  assess  whether  there  would  be  a  difference  in  the  in  vitro  drug-drug  interaction  potential 
between Methylthionium chloride Proveblue and Methylthionium chloride (MTC). 
CYP450 Inhibition 
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  relative  inhibition  potential  (IC50  values)  for  two 
compounds, Proveblue and MTC, against the human cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms 1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, and 3A4. Each CYP isoform was tested with appropriate known positive controls, as well as 
negative  controls.  In  positive  controls  with  known  inhibitors,  measured  IC50  values  were  all  within 
expected  ranges.  Overall,  both  compounds  had  similar  inhibitory  effects  on  the  six  isoforms  tested. 
Both compounds were potent inhibitors of CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C9 and 2C19.   
CYP450 Induction 
Cryopreserved  plateable  human  hepatocytes  were  used  to  evaluate  Proveblue  and  MTC  to  determine 
their induction potential for CYP1A2 and 3A4. CYP1A2 and 3A4 enzyme activities were measured using 
known substrates for these enzymes and the results are presented as a fold induction compared to the 
vehicle  control.  Both  compounds  behave  in  a  similar  fashion  in  this  assay  but  in  all  experiments  the 
positive  controls  result  in  very  little  effect.  Both  compounds  elicited  cytotoxic  effects  at  the  100  μM 
concentration resulting in loss of cell viability. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
A distinct enzyme, NADPH methemoglobin reductase, converts methylthioninium chloride (the oxidized 
form  of  the  dye)  to  leucomethylene  blue  (LMB)  (the  reduced  form),  using  NADPH.  The  reduced  form 
then chemically reduces methemoglobin (Hgb(Fe3+)) to haemoglobin (Hgb(Fe2+)). 
Page 21/47
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  2:  from  Bradberry  SM,  Aw  TC,  Williams  NR,  Vale  JA.  Occupational  methaemoglobinaemia. 
Occup Environ Med. 2001 Sep:58(9):611-5 
The  mechanisms  that  cause  methaemoglobinaemia  are  well  understood.  Likewise,  the  way 
methylthioninium chloride function when used to treat methaemoglobinaemia is uncontroversial. 
Similar redox carriers, such as toluidine blue or thionine have never gained such popularity, and only 
few attempts have been made to compare their efficacy. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The  applicant  provided  two  in  vitro  studies  conducted  by  Provepharm  to  show  that  the  products  are 
similar.  The  protein  binding  study  was  very  limited  and  only  one  concentration  level  was  studied.  A 
difference  between  the  formulations  tested  in  the  recovery  was  indicated  (50%  versus  64%),  which 
may  imply  a  difference  of  the  two  products  concerning  adsorption  to  the  equipment  (filters  and/or 
plastic  material)  used  in  the  protein  binding  study  and  thus  also  to  utensils  used  for  dosing  of  the 
medicinal  product.  However,  the  possible  difference  is  considered  small  and  would  not  result  in  a 
clinically  relevant  difference  in  the  administered  dose,  between  the  two  formulations.  Furthermore, 
there  are  no  signs  that  adsorption  would  be  an  issue  for  methylthioninium  chloride.  The  in  vitro 
inhibition  study  did  not  reveal  any  differences  between  the  products  and  the induction  study  was  not 
conclusive due to little response from positive controls. 
The  Note 
for  guidance 
on 
the 
investigation 
of  bioavailability 
and  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98)  states  that  a  bioequivalence  study  is  not  required  if  the  product  is  to  be 
administered  as  an  aqueous  intravenous  solution  containing  the  same  active  substance  in  the  same 
concentration as the reference product. For this product, there is a difference in the strength compared 
with  the  reference  product  due  to  the  difference  with  respect  to  the  solubility  of  the  active  drug 
substance. The documentation provided by the applicant contributes little to conclusion whether there 
is a difference in the drug substances that would impact pharmacokinetics, and thereby the efficacy of 
the  drug.  However,  given  that  the  solubility  difference  is  minor  (1.1  to  1.3  m/v%  versus  1.6  m/v%) 
and  that  this  is  as  an  aqueous  solution  for  intravenous  administration,  a  difference  in  the  systemic 
exposure compared with the reference product is not expected. A bioequivalence study is therefore not 
required. 
Regardless  of  elimination  pathway,  it  is  known  that  organ  systems  mature  for  some  time  after  birth. 
Roughly, glomerular filtration as well as metabolic enzyme activity reaches adult capacity around 1-2 
years of age, and thereafter depends on body size. Thus, if the purpose is to achieve similar systemic 
exposure  in  children  and  adults,  the  proposed  dose  recommendation  in  children  may  not  be  optimal. 
However, the dose proposed is in agreement with the commonly recommended by EU Poison centres. 
Page 22/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
A slightly reduced solubility is not considered to have an effect on the pharmacokinetic features for a 
formulation  where  the  drug  substance  is  an  aqueous  solution  to  be  administered  intravenously.  The 
clinical pharmacology documentation is considered sufficient. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
As considered lifesaving for many intoxicated patients, placebo-controlled randomised studies have not 
been  performed.  The  Scientific  advice  from  EMA  concluded  that  proof  of  efficacy  could  be  based  on 
published data, mainly case reports. 
The  applicant  has  not  performed  any  clinical  studies  with  this  product  but  has  performed  a  literature 
search to provide support for the three changes from the reference product: 
- 
- 
the change of the concentration (5 mg/ml instead of 10 mg/ml) 
the addition of the indication “treatment of chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia” 
-  and the use in children. 
EU Poison Centres data 
A  request  form  concerning  drug-induced  methaemoglobinaemia  cases  was  sent  by  the  Applicant  to 
Poison Centres in European Union Member States and in Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland, at the end 
of March 2009. The aim of this request was to obtain information about the number of poisoning cases 
leading to methaemoglobinaemia, the responsible compounds and the treatment used (see table 4). 
Table  4:  Cases  of  methaemoglobinaemia  as  reported  by  Poison  Centres  in  European  Union, 
Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway 
Member State 
Total number of 
cases 
Cause of Poisoning 
(number of cases) 
Antidote used 
(manufacturer) 
Protocol of MB 
treatment 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 1% 
(magistral 
formulation) 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 10mg/ml 
(Sterop) 
1-2 mg/kg slowly 
IV  
Adults and 
children:  
1-2 mg/kg IV over 
5 to 10 min. 
Dose may be 
repeated after 1 hr 
if needed.  
Austria 
5 cases since 
2003 
Belgium  
69 cases since 
1972: 
40 adults 
20 children 
(and 9 animals) 
- Sodium Chlorate (3) 
- Gyromitra esculenta (1) 
- Hydrogene Sulfide (5) 
- Phenazopyridine (12) 
- Nitrites (11) 
- Chlorate (5) 
- Paracetamol (5) 
- Dapsone (4) 
- Loperamide (3) 
- Nitrates (3) 
- Substral (3) 
- Nitrobenzen (2) 
- Pyrimethamine (2) 
- Aniline (1) 
- Calorimeter (1)  
- Cocaïne (1) 
- Dextromethorphan (1) 
- Chervil soup (1) 
- Linuron (1) 
- Metamizole (1) 
- Methylthioninium chloride (1) 
- Organic nitrite (1) 
- Oxyphenbutazone (1) 
- Phenylsulfone (1) 
- Beetroot (1) 
- Toluidin (1) 
- Tributylnitrite (1) 
- unknown (5) 
Page 23/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Member State 
Total number of 
cases 
Cause of Poisoning 
(number of cases) 
Antidote used 
(manufacturer) 
Protocol of MB 
treatment 
Czech Republic 
32 cases since 
2004 
- Gentian violet (22) 
Ascorbic acid only 
- Aniline (5) 
- Dapsone (2) 
- Ortho-toluidine (1) 
- Isobutylnitrite (Poppers) (2) 
1 case: Toluidin 
blue (unknown) 
 4 cases: no 
treatment 
Not specified 
Not specified 
1 case: Toluidin 
blue (unknown) 
Estonia 
No cases since 
Sept. 2008 
Not applicable 
Methylthioninium 
chloride (unknown) 
Finland 
Not available 
Not available 
France 
A mean of 1 case 
per year 
- Poppers (amyl nitrite) 
- Chlorate 
- some anesthetics 
Methylthioninium 
chloride (unknown, 
compassionate 
use) 
Methylthioninium 
chloride (unknown) 
Hungary 
No information in the database 
Adults and 
children: 
1-2 mg/kg IV (1% 
solution) over 5 
min.  
Repeat dose in 30-
60 min if no 
response. 
1-2 mg/kg IV.  
Dose may be 
repeated if needed. 
Not specified 
1-2 mg/kg IV 
Maximal dose: 5-7 
mg/kg. 
Liechtenstein/ 
Switzerland 
13 cases since 
1997 
- Amyl nitrite (2) 
- Dapsone (2) 
- Isopropyl nitrite (1) 
- Isobutyl nitrite (1) 
- Nitrite compound (1) 
- Combustion (1) 
- Kohlrabi (1) 
- Chloroaniline (1) 
- 4-bromo-2-fluoroaniline (1) 
- primaquine (1) 
- Unknown (1) 
7 cases: 
Methylthioninium 
chloride for 7 cases 
(unknown) 
6 cases: no 
treatment 
1-2 mg/kg given 
slowly IV, may be 
repeated up to a 
maximum of 7 
mg/kg. 
Norway 
2 adult cases 
since 16-feb-
2004 
- unknown product 
containing nitrites (1) 
- unknown (1) 
Metytionin 
injektionsvätska 
inj. 10 mg/mL 
(Swedish injection 
product)  
Note: no report of  
adverse effect or 
serious adverse 
event caused by 
MB 
Adults and 
children: 
1-2 mg/kg slowly 
IV over 5 min. 
Dose may be 
repeated after 1-4 
hrs if required. 
Maximal total 
dose: 5-7 mg/kg. 
Slovak 
Republic 
Spain 
2 cases since 
2004 
12 cases since 
May 2005 
- nitrates in water (1) 
- aniline (1) 
Toluidinblau (Dr. F. 
Kohler Chemie)  
No MB available in 
the country 
- linuron 
- naphtalene 
- phenazopyridine 
- pendimethalin (dinitroaniline 
herbicide) 
Sweden 
Less than 10 
cases per year 
Not specified 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 1% in 5% 
glucose solution 
(galenic formula 
made by 
pharmacists) 
Methylthionine 
manufactured for 
National Use 
1-2 mg/kg IV over 
5 min.  
Dose may be 
repeated after 1hr. 
Maximal dose: 7 
mg/kg 
Not specified 
Page 24/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Member State 
The 
Netherlands 
Total number of 
cases 
14 cases between 
01-jan-2007 and 
31-dec-2008 
Cause of Poisoning 
(number of cases) 
Antidote used 
(manufacturer) 
Protocol of MB 
treatment 
- Methylthioninium 
chloride 
(10mg/mL) 
Alternative to MB: 
- Tolonium 
- Vitamin C 
(but less effective 
than MB) 
Adults and 
children: 
1-2 mg/kg IV 
during 5 min. 
Dose can be 
repeated.  
Maximal dose: 7 
mg/kg. 
- cigarette with powder from 
firework (1) 
- aniline and P-aminoazo-
benzene (1) 
- resorcinol (1) 
- dapsone (2) 
- ammonium nitrates (1) 
- Hydrogen peroxide 3% and 
phenacetin (1) 
- Isosorbide mononitrate (1) 
- nitrites and beer (1) 
- prednisolon and plaquenil (1) 
- nitrogen phosphate and 
potassium (1) 
- nitrites and cocaine (1) 
- Methylthioninium chloride (2) 
Current  medical  practice  in  EU  Poison  Centres  shows  that  methylthioninium  chloride  is  the  first-line 
treatment  in  children  and  adults  cases  of  both  medicinal  and  chemical  products  induced 
methaemoglobinaemia.  In  some  Member  States,  methylthioninium  chloride  is  not  used  because  it  is 
not available. 
Dose-related data 
Based on the answers received from EU poison centre, the usual dose recommended is 1 to 2 mg per 
kg body weight, i.e. 0.2-0.4 ml per kg body weight, given intravenously over a period of 5 minutes.  
It must not be administered by subcutaneous or intrathecal injection. 
A repeat dose (1 to 2 mg/kg body weight, i.e. 0.2-0.4 ml/kg body weight) may be given one hour after 
the  first  dose  in  cases  of  persistent  or  recurrent  symptoms  or  if  methaemoglobin  levels  remain 
significantly higher than the normal clinical range. 
Treatment does not usually exceed one day. 
Based  on  available  literature  data,  the  maximum  recommended  cumulative  dose  for  the  course  of 
treatment  is  7 mg/kg  and  should  not  be  exceeded,  since  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue 
administered above the maximum dose may cause methaemoglobinaemia in susceptible patients.  
In  the  case  of  aniline-  or  dapsone-induced  methaemaglobinaemia,  the  maximum  recommended 
cumulative dose for the course of treatment is 4 mg/kg.  
Too limited data are available to support a continuous infusion dose recommendation. 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is hypotonic and may be diluted in 50 ml glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) 
solution for injection to avoid local pain, in particular in paediatric population. 
Medicinal-product induced methaemoglobinaemia – Case reports 
  Adults 
Most  cases  of  acquired  methaemoglobinaemia  reported  in  the  adult  population  are  related  to  topical 
anaesthetics,  particularly  benzocaine  spray  applied  during  surgery,  the  use  of  the  antibiotic  dapsone, 
intoxication by aniline products and nitrites or nitrates (from food, water, chemicals and medicines). 
In  most  case  reports,  patients  with  acquired  methaemoglobinaemia  were  treated  with  IV  infusion  of 
methylthioninium chloride as a 10 mg/ml solution with a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg over 5 to 15 min. 
Page 25/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  5  and  Table  6  list  the  medicinal  product  induced-  methaemoglobinaemia  case  reports  found  in 
public domain: 
Table 5: Case reports of efficacy in adults with medicinal product induced-methaemoglobinaemia 
Reference 
Cause 
Patient 
MB Treatment 
Route 
Results 
Cause: Chlorate and bromate local anaesthetics 
Benzocaine 
oral spray 
27-year-old 
man 
65 mg (1-2 mg/kg) 
IV 
Complete recovery 
Young 
2008 
Jiminez 
2007 
Hurricane 
spray 
(Benzocaine) 
56-year-old 
woman 
60 mg (1 mg/kg) over 
5 min 
IV 
Kane 
2007 
Benzocaine 
18 patients  
(mean age: 
62.8 ± 16.0 
years) 
Mean dose ± SD:  
1.3 ± 0.4 mg/kg body 
weight (range 0.7-2 
mg/kg) 
2 patients required a 
2nd dose (after initial 
dose of 50 mg) 
Birchem 
2005 
Ash-
Bernal 
2004 
Benzocaine 
69-year-old 
woman 
2 mg/kg 
Benzocaine 
52-year-old 
man 
Not specified 
Sachdeva 
2003 
Benzocaine 
Case 1: 72-
year-old man 
Case 2: 65-
year-old man 
Case 1: 2 mg/kg 
Case 2: 1 mg/kg 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
Benzocaine 
71-year-old 
woman 
1 mg/kg (1% solution) 
for 5 min 
IV 
Cyanosis completely 
resolved within minutes of 
receiving MB 
Resolution of signs and 
symptoms within 1h 
(frequently within 20 to 30 
min) 
1h later, MetHb level 
decreased to 18.4% with 
improvement of cyanosis.  
2h later, MetHb level = 4% 
Rapid reverse of 
methaemoglobinaemia 
Case 1: Resolution of 
cyanosis and decrease of 
MetHb level within 2h 
Case 2: Resolution of 
cyanosis within 15 min 
Decrease of MetHb level 
from 22.5% to 2.4% 1h 
after administration. Full 
recovery. 
Nguyen 
2000 
Jaffery 
2008 
Lin 
2007 
Saha 
2006 
Bayard 
2004 
Topical 
benzocaine 
Topical 
benzocaine 
Topical 
benzocaine 
Topical 
benzocaine 
44-year-old 
woman 
29-year-old 
woman 
71-year-old 
man 
26-year-old 
woman 
Rodriguez 
1994 
Benzocaine 
83-year-old 
man 
Bolyston 
2002 
Probably 
benzocaine 
73-year-old 
woman 
2 mg/kg 
IV 
Resolution of symptoms 
50 mg over 10 min 
(1% solution) 
1 mg/kg over 5 min 
90 mg (2 mg/kg) over 
5 min 
100 mg (approx. 1.5 
mg/kg) 
2nd dose 3h later: 
80mg (1.1 mg/kg) 
3rd dose 20h later: 
80mg 
200 mg in 100 ml of 
isotonic sodium 
chloride solution 
infused during 30 min 
IV 
Decrease of MetHb level 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
Decrease of MetHb level 
within 4 hours 
3h later: MetHb level near 
zero 
Decrease in MetHb 
concentration (from 54.1% 
to 4.3 % after 2nd dose). 
After 3rd dose: decrease of 
MetHb level from 30% to 
4.2% within 4h 
30 min after infusion: 
metHb level 9% 
90 min after infusion: 
metHb level 2%  
Methaemoglobinaemia 
rapidly resolved 
Wolak 
2005 
Multiple 
exposures to 
oxidizing 
agents (ie, 
mafenide 
acetate and 
benzocaine 
21-year-old 
man 
2 mg/kg over 5 
minRepeat 1 mg/kg 
dose 
IV 
Recovery 
Page 26/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
spray) 
Prilocaine 
Prilocaine 
Adams 
2007 
Wilburn-
Goo 
1999 
45-year-old 
woman 
Case 1: 22-
year-old woman 
Case 2: 33-
year-old woman 
Case 3: 19-
year-old woman   
Lunenfeld 
2004 
Topical 
anesthetics 
(Cetacaine) 
52-year-old 
man 
Douglas 
1977 
Topical 
anesthetic 
spray 
(Cetacaine) 
Case 1: 77-
year-old man 
Case2: 80-year-
old woman 
Cause: Antibiotics 
43 mg 
IV 
Quick improvement 
Case 1: 100 mg 
Case 2: dose not 
specified, treatment 
during 5 min 
Case 3: 1.5 mg/kg 
1st dose: 1 mg/kg 
2nd dose: 1 mg/kg, 
5min after the 1st dose 
Case 1:  60 mg (6 mL 
of 1% solution) with 
250 mg of ascorbic 
acid 
Case 2: 50 mg (5 mL 
of 1% solution) 
IV 
Case 1: full recovery 
Case 2: MetHb level 
decreased to 2% within 5 
min 
Case 3: Recovery 
IV 
Complete recovery 
IV 
Case 1:  Cyanosis resolved 
within 10 min 
Case 2: Cyanosis resolved 
within a few min 
Arrivaben
e Caruy 
2007 
Matisoff 
2006 
Salamat 
2003 
Dapsone 
52-year-old 
man 
1 mg/kg 
IV 
Clinical improvement 15 
min after administration 
Dapsone 
71-year-old 
woman 
1st dose: 5 mL (1% 
solution) 
Then 5 mL (1% 
solution) increments up 
to 20 mL total 
IV 
Decrease of MetHb to 1.9% 
Dapsone 
66-year-old 
man 
1 mg/kg over 10 min 
IV 
Prompt symptomatic 
improvement 
Cause: Amyl nitrites 
Modarai 
2002 
Amyl nitrite 
Case 1: 32-
year-old woman 
Case 2: 28-
year-old man 
Case 1: 1.5 mg/kg 
over 5 min 
Case 2:  2 mg/kg over 
5 min 
IV 
Case 1: Improvement 
within 40 min 
Case 2: Improvement 
within 10 min 
Stambach 
1997 
Volatile amyl 
nitrites 
Early twenties 
woman 
1st dose: 2 mg/kg 
2nd dose: 1 mg/kg 
IV 
Full recovery 
Other causes 
Fung 
2008 
Mary 
2000 
Zopiclone 
ingestion 
43-year-old 
woman 
Metoclopramide 
88-year-old 
man 
1st dose: 80 mg (1 
mg/kg) 
2nd dose 90 min later: 
80 mg (1 mg/kg) 
100 mg in 100 cc of 
normal saline given 
over 3 min 
Decrease of MetHb from 
23.8% to 3.6% 1h after 2nd 
dose 
Complete resolution of 
cyanosis 
Clinical improvement, 
MetHb level returned to 
normal within 24h 
IV 
IV 
Published  data  support  the  proposed  indication  (medicinal  product  induced-  methaemoglobinaemia) 
and posology.  
The  response  to  methylthioninium  chloride  treatment  is  so  rapid,  with  marked  lowering  or 
normalization  of  methaemoglobin  (metHb)  levels  within  an  hour  or  two  that  no  other  treatment  is 
usually needed, but the patient should be observed carefully, because continued absorption of a toxic 
substance  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  may  cause  recurrence  of  methaemoglobinaemia  (Beutler 
2005). 
Half-life of metHb is 55 minutes. After MB administration, cyanosis resolves within 15 to 30 minutes. 
Marked  reduction  in  the  metHb  concentration,  usually  by  50%,  is  seen  within  30  to  60  minutes.  MB 
Page 27/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
itself has oxidizing properties at higher doses, with toxic effects appearing in doses > 7 mg/kg (Gupta 
2000). 
A  second  dose  may  need  to  be  administered  in  very  severe  cases,  such  as  if  there  is  evidence  of 
continuing  chemical  absorption  or  prolonged  methaemoglobin  formation.  The  latter  is  associated 
particularly  with  methaemoglobinaemia  caused  by  poisons  that  require  metabolic  activation,  such  as 
aniline. A long half life and enterohepatic circulation of the parent compound and its metabolites may 
also contribute to prolonged methaemoglobin formation. If a second dose of methylthioninium chloride 
is  administered,  the  clinical  situation  should  be  re-evaluated  before  any  further  dose  is  given,  since 
higher or repeated doses of methylthioninium chloride may exacerbate methaemoglobin formation and 
cause intravascular haemolysis in these cases (Bradberry 2001). 
Usually,  methylthioninium  chloride  therapy  should  be  continued  until  methemoglobin  level  is  below 
10% (Prasad 2008). The same dose may be repeated every 60 min as required up to a total dose of 7 
mg/kg (Guay 2009). 
Consequently,  the  SmPC of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue,  mentions  that:  “A  second  dose  may 
be  given  one  hour  after  the  first  dose  in  cases  of  persistent  or  recurrent  symptoms  or  if 
methaemoglobinaemia levels remain higher than normal”. 
However,  in  case  of  aniline-  or  dapsone-induced  methaemoglobinaemia,  it  is  recommended  not  to 
exceed a cumulative dose of 4 mg/kg because of the risk of haemolytic anaemia. The SmPC has been 
updated accordingly. 
In  children,  as  for  adults,  the  dose  may  be  repeated  after  one  hour  in  cases  of  persistence  or 
recurrence  of  symptoms  (Moodambail  2005).  However,  in  infants  below  3  months  of  age,  it  is 
recommended to administer a dose of 0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg for the initial dose as well as any repeat dose. 
  Children 
Published  literature  shows  that  methylthioninium  chloride  can  successfully  be  used  in  children  with 
medicinal product induced-methaemoglobinaemia (table 5).  
The  immature  enzyme  function  in  the  newborn  makes  them  more  disposed  for  developing  adverse 
events  by  the  substance  methylthioninium  chloride  itself.  NADPH-methaemoglobin  reductase  in  the 
newborn is approximately 60% of that in adults and reaches the normal adult concentration around 3 
months of age. Also, infants younger than 3 months of age have higher levels of foetal haemoglobin, 
which has a structure that is easily oxidised into methaemoglobin. However methylthioninium chloride 
treatment  option  should  be  open  also  for  this  group,  especially  as  they  can  easily  develop 
methaemoglobinaemia, caused e.g. by nitrate in water, see case reports in next section.  
In  these  patients,  the  recommended  dose  is  0.3-0.5  mg/kg  body  weight  given  over  a  period  of  5 
minutes (Guay 2009, Rauber-Luthy 2009). This dose may be as effective as the usual adult dose of 1.0 
mg/kg which has sometimes induced haemolysis in this subpopulation (Guay 2009). The choice of the 
initial dose is confirmed by a study conducted on premature neonates 
A repeat dose (0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg body weight, i.e. 0.06-0.1 ml/kg body weight) may be given one hour 
after the first dose in cases of persistent or recurrent of symptoms or if methaemoglobin levels remain 
higher than normal. 
Extreme caution should be exercised when administering to newborns and infants below the age of 3 
months  due  to  lower  concentrations  of  NADPH-methaemoglobin  reductase  necessary  for  reducing 
methaemoglobin  to  haemoglobin,  making  these  infants  more  susceptible  to  methaemoglobinaemia 
produced by high doses of methylthioninium chloride. 
Page 28/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Case reports of efficacy in children with medicinal product induced-methaemoglobinaemia 
Reference 
Cause 
Patient 
MB Treatment 
Route 
Results 
Cause : Chlorate and bromate anaesthetics 
Autret 
1989  
Nestosyl 
2-year-old girl 
1 mg/kg (MB 1%) 
Dahshan 
2006 
Topical use 
benzocaine 
spray 
3-year-old 
toddler 
1 mg/kg 
Hersch 
2004 
Benzocaine 
exposure 
Case 1: 2 ½ 
year old 
Case 2: 5 ½ 
year old 
Case 1 : 10 mg 
Case 2: 20 mg 
IV 
over 
5 min 
Cyanosis was cleared and 
O2 saturation and PaO2 
were normalized 15 min 
after administration of MB. 
IV 
infusi
on 
IV 
MB promptly cleared the 
central cyanosis, restored 
normal oxygenation, and 
improved the arterial blood 
gas 
Case 1: Within 8 min, 
cyanosis visibly faded with 
MetHb levels reduced to 
4.4% within 6h 
Case 2: Cyanosis resolved 
within 15 min 
Tush 
1996 
Benzocaine and 
resorcinol 
(Vagisil) cream 
(OTC 
medication) 
6-day-old 
neonate 
3 mg (1 mg/kg) 
IV 
Fullerton 
2002 
5% Mafenide 
Acetate Solution 
and Topical 
Lidocaine Spray 
12-year-old 
boy 
0.1 mL/kg (1% 
solution) over 5 min 
IV 
Guay 
2009  
Benzocaine 
Review on 242 
cases (adults 
and children)  
MB (n=155) or MB plus 
ascorbic acid (n=14) 
First dose MB 
between 0.5 and 5.5 
mg/kg  
Cumulative MB dose: 
between 0.6 and 9.4 
mg/kg 
IV 
Ozdogan 
2010  
Prilocaine 
40-day-old 
neonate  
1 mg/kg 
IV 
Skin color returned to 
normal 45 min after the 
dose 
Respiratory status and 
cyanosis improved shortly 
after infusion of MB.  
Follow-up MetHb levels at 
2h and 12h after treatment 
were 4.1% and 2.5% 
respectively. 
In patients who received 
MB +/- ascorbic acid: 
- Time to metHb level of 
≤2.0% varied from 0.33 to 
36.2h. 
- Time to disappearance of 
clinical cyanosis: from 0.25 
to 9h 
In 1-day-old newborn who 
received a single dose of 
1.0 mg/kg MB: haemolysis 
attributed to MB 
administration 
Cyanosis resolved in 
60 min. MetHb fraction 
regressed to 4% in 60 min 
and to 1.5% in 24h. 
Cyanosis disappeared 
completely after 120 min. 
Bouziri 
2010 
Cutaneous 
application of a 
pomade 
containing 
benzocaine, 
resorcin, and 
oxyquinoline 
(Nestosyl) 
Cause : Antibiotics 
16-month-old 
boy 
Loading dose: 2 mg/kg 
of a MB 1% solution 
followed by 1 mg/kg 
twice daily 
Slow 
IV 
injecti
on 
over 
5 min 
Rapid improvement of 
cyanosis, neurological 
status, and hemodynamic 
state. 24h later, decrease 
of MetHb level from 50.6% 
to 9.8%. Patient discharged 
on day 3 
Ferguson 
1997 
Dapsone 
(deliberate self-
poisoning) 
14-year-old 
girl 
1st dose: 90 mg  
Total dose over 48h: 8 
mg/kg 
IV 
bolus 
1h after 1st dose, MetHb 
level: 5.9% but rapid 
increase of MetHb level 
(exceeding 25%). 
MetHb level reduces over 
Page 29/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
MacDonal
d 
1997 
Acute dapsone 
intoxication 
3-year-old boy 
Prasad 
2002  
Dapsone 
2-year-old 
male 
next 4-5 days after total 
dose of 8 mg/mL MB. 
IV 
3 doses of MB reduced 
MetHb level to 6% 
IV 
After 1st dose: persistent 
cyanosis. 
MetHb level : 
- on day 2: 48% 
- on day 3: 28% 
- on day 4: 17% 
- on day 5: 8% 
Persistent cyanosis on day 
3 and 4. 
4 doses of 16 mg (1 % 
solution, 0.1 mg/kg) 
with activated charcoal 
1 mg/kg along with 
ascorbic acid (500 mg) 
over a period of 5 min. 
MB and charcoal 
therapy continued 8 
hourly in the same 
dose. 
Day 2: 2 doses MB. MB 
therapy continued on 
days 3 and 4 (same 
dosage) and stopped 
on day 5. 
Cumulative MB dose: 
22 mg/kg 
(in 4 days) 
Tsai 
2005 
Moodamb
ail 
2005 
Sulfadiazine 
3-year-old 
1 mg/kg 
IV 
Decrease of MetHb to 1% 
within 1h 
Dapsone 
19-month-old 
child 
1 mg/kg MB 1% 
diluted in distilled 
water, 2nd dose 
administered 10 hrs 
after the 1st one 
Cumulative MB dose: 2 
mg/kg 
IV 
slowly 
over 
10 
min 
MetHb decreased after 10 
hours from 28.1 % to 21%. 
Cyanosis improved 
dramatically. After 2nd 
dose: MetHb level 
insignificant on the next 2 
days and patient 
discharged home. 
Other causes 
Merieau 
2005 
Metoclopramide 
5-day-old 
newborn 
1 mg/kg 
Attof 
2006 
Cerium nitrate 
(topical 
antiseptic) 
16-year-old 
girl 
1.5 mg/kg (i.e.100 
mg) for 15 min 
Se Eun 
Hyun 
2009 
Chinese herbal 
medicine 
8-year-old girl 
2 mg/kg MB 1% 
solution. Treatment 
repeated on 2nd day 
Cumulative MB dose: 4 
mg/kg 
IV 
Not 
specif
ied 
IV 
infusi
on 
Cyanosis disappeared 
within 1 hour. MetHb level 
decreased from 11.2 % to 
0.4%. 
MetHb down from 31.8% to 
3.5% 1h after treatment 
After 1st dose: MetHb level 
decreased to 13.1%, 
cyanosis and dyspnoea 
improved. After 2nd dose: 
MetHb level decreased to 
2.5% and 1.3% on the 3rd 
and 4th hospital days 
respectively. Discharged on 
6th day. 
Chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia - Case reports 
In  all  the  reported  cases  (2  cases  in  children  and  10  in  adults),  treatment  with  methylthioninium 
chloride  was  effective,  except  in  a  patient  with  G6PD  deficiency.  The  enzymes  deficiencies  of  this 
patient  have  a  diminished  capacity  to  reduce  methylthioninium  chloride  to  leucomethylene  blue,  by 
performing  the  NADPH-dependent  reduction  of  methaemoglobin.  Thus,  G6PD  deficiency  is  a 
contraindication of methylthioninium chloride as indicated in the SmPC. 
Table 6 and table 7 below list the chemical product induced- methaemoglobinaemia case reports found 
in public domain: 
Page 30/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Case reports of efficacy in adults with chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia 
Reference 
Cause 
Patient 
MB Treatment 
Route 
Results 
Cause: Aniline products 
Demirel 
1999 
Aniline 
Case 1: 54-
year-old man 
Case 2: 37-
year-old man 
Case 1: 140 mg 
Case 2: 150 mg 
IV 
Case 1: Decrease of MetHb 
level to 4.9% within 1h. 
Decrease to 1.5% after 
several hours 
Case 2: Decrease of MetHb 
level to 7.5% within 2h. 
Complete improvement. 
Ferrer-
Gomez 
2008 
Aniline 
19-year-old 
man 
Kearney 
1984 
Aniline 
32-year-old 
man 
Mullick 
2007 
Harvey 
1983 
Liao 
2002 
Pizon 
2009 
Aniline-induced 
in patient with 
G6PD 
deficiency 
Aniline 
Aniline 
p-Chloroaniline 
23-year-old 
woman 
22-year-old 
man 
25-year-old 
man 
20-year-old 
man 
Cause: Other chemicals 
1st dose: 80 mg over 
10 min  
2nd dose: 1 mg/kg 
3rd dose: not specified 
Total dose: 3 mg/kg 
- 200 mg (plus 500 mg 
ascorbic acid) 
- 2nd dose: 300 mg 
(plus 1g ascorbic acid) 
- Over the next 12h: 
800 mg (plus 2.5 g 
ascorbic acid) in 5 
divided dose  
-  20h after poisoning 
occurred, 180 mg 
IV 
Improvement 
IV 
Reduction of the MetHb 
level from 70% to 24%. 
Then MetHb level declined 
spontaneously. 
Patient scheduled for 
quantitative G6PD studies 
but lost to follow-up. 
50 mg (1% solution) in 
normal saline over 10 
min 
IV 
No clinical improvement 1h 
after because of G6PD 
deficiency. Use of oxygen 
therapy. 
- 1st dose: 150 mg 
(2 mg/kg)  
- 2nd dose: 150 mg 
40 mg 
IV 
Reduction of MetHb level 
IV 
Clinical improvement but 
identification of  G6PD 
deficiency 
2 mg/kg 
IV 
Complete recovery 
Anic 
1999 
Herbicide 
“Galex 500 EC” 
(25% of 
metolachlor 
and 25% of 
metobromuron 
dissolved in 
xylene) 
81-year-old 
man 
1.5 mg/kg (10 mL, 1% 
solution) 
IV 
Very effective, full recovery 
Geiger 
1935 
Cyanide 
poisoning 
28-year-old 
woman 
1st dose: 50 cm3 (1% 
solution) 
2nd dose (50 cm3 of 1% 
solution) administered 
10 min after the 1st 
one 
IV 
Within 8 min after the 1st 
injection, respiratory 
function restored. 
Definite improvement 30 
min after 2nd dose. 
Maric 
2008 
Food additive 
4 patients (age 
not specified) 
Not specified 
IV 
Rapid clinical improvement 
The  proposal  to  include  also  chemical  products-induced  methaemoglobinaemia  is  supported  by 
published 
literature.  The  SmPC 
includes  a  warning  that 
in  patients  with  aniline-induced 
methaemoglobinaemia,  repeated  doses  of  methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  may  be  required. 
Caution  should  be  exercised  in  the  course  of  treatment  with  methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  as 
this may exacerbate Heinz body formation and haemolytic anaemia. Lower doses should therefore be 
considered and total cumulative dose should not exceed 4 mg/kg. 
Page 31/47
 
 
 
 
 
● Children 
Table 8: Case reports of efficacy in children with chemical products-induced methaemoglobinaemia 
Reference 
Cause 
Patient 
MB Treatment 
Route 
Results 
Cause: Aniline products 
Maione 
1990 
Aniline shoe black  15-year-old 
2 mg/kg 
IV 
Hjelt 1995 
Toxic substance 
(probably 
Parachloraniline) 
Premature 
neonates 
(n=13) 
28 doses of MB: 
- 0.1-0.2 mg/kg bw 
(n=7) 
- 0.3-0.9 mg/kg bw 
(n=10) 
- 1.0-1.6 mg/kg bw 
(n=11) 
IV 
Following administration, 
MetHb reduced to Hb and 
level of consciousness 
immediately improved. 
Treatment of severe 
methaemoglobinaemia is 
premature neonates with 
0.3-1.0 mg/kg proved 
efficient. A possible side 
effect is an increased need 
for transfusion. Therefore, 
the smallest effective dose 
of MB must be used. 
Golden 
1998 
Savino 
2006 
Drinking of 
artificial fingernail 
removal fluid 
containing 
nitroethane 
26-month-old 
boy 
2 administrations of 2 
mg/kg MB within 14 
hrs 
Cumulative MB dose: 4 
mg/kg 
IV 
MB failed to reduce MetHb 
due to G6PD deficiency. 
High  
concentration of 
courgette soup 
(nitrates) 
2-month-
infant 
1-month 
infant 
0.1 ml/kg (1% 
solution) 
Not 
specif
ied 
Syndrome completely 
resolved after 12h 
Bucaretchi  
2000 
See below 
In a retrospective study by Bucaretchi (2000), 17 children (1-13 years old) with methemoglobinaemia 
>  20%  caused  by  dapsone  exposure  were  described.  All  of  the  children  received  multiple  doses  of 
activated  charcoal  orally  or  via  nasogastric  tube.  Twelve  children  were  treated  with  methylthioninium 
chloride 1-2 mg/kg. Causes for refraining from methylthioninium chloride treatment not stated.  There 
were  no  significant  statistical  differences  between  the  results  of  the  two  treatments  according  to  the 
time-course  decrease  in  methaemoglobinaemia.  However  the  author  concludes:  “Methylthioninium 
chloride  should  be  the  treatment  of  choice  in  urgencies  of  severe  methaemoglobinaemia  caused  by 
acute exposure to dapsone. The therapeutic association with multiple doses of activated charcoal may 
reduce  the  chances  of  methaemoglobinaemia  recurrence,  thus  reducing  the  need  for  repeated 
administration of methylthioninium chloride and avoiding its possible complications.” 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary in this patient population. 
Renal impairment 
Methylthioninium  chloride Proveblue  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients with moderate  to  severe 
renal  disease  since  there  is  limited  data  available  and  methylthioninium  chloride  is  predominantly 
renally eliminated. Lower doses (<1 mg/kg) may be needed.  
Hepatic impairment 
There is no experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment.  
Paediatric population 
Page 32/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The posology for infants above 3 months, children and adolescents should be the same as for adults.  
For  infants  3  months  old  or  younger  and  newborn  infants,  the  recommended  dose  is  0.3-0.5  mg/kg 
body weight, i.e. 0.06 to 0.1 ml/kg body weight, given over a period of 5 minutes. 
A repeat dose (0.3 to 0.5 mg/kg body weight, i.e. 0.06-0.1 ml/kg body weight) may be given one hour 
after the first dose in cases of persistent or recurrent of symptoms or if methaemoglobin levels remain 
significantly higher than the normal clinical range. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
As methylthioninium chloride is considered lifesaving for many intoxicated patients, placebo-controlled 
randomised  studies  have  not  been  performed.  The  CHMP  scientific  advice  concluded  that  proof  of 
efficacy could be based on published data, mainly case reports. 
No controlled clinical trials on the efficacy of Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue have been performed 
and  current  practice  is  only  based  on  the  cumulative  experience  since  the  first  published  case  report 
with successful outcome in the 1930’s.  
Current medical practice in most EU Poison Centres shows that methylthioninium chloride is the first-
line  treatment  in  children  and  adults  cases  of  both  medicinal  and  chemical  products  induced 
methaemoglobinaemia.  In  some  Member  States,  methylthioninium  chloride  is  not  used  because  it  is 
not available. 
Most  cases  of  acquired  methaemoglobinaemia  reported  in  the  adult  population  are  related  to  topical 
anaesthetics,  particularly  benzocaine  spray  applied  during  surgery,  the  use  of  the  antibiotic  dapsone, 
intoxication by aniline products and nitrites or nitrates (from food, water, chemicals and medicines). In 
most  case  reports,  patients  with  acquired  methaemoglobinaemia  were  treated  with  IV  infusion  of 
methylthioninium  chloride  as  a  10  mg/ml  solution  at  the  usual  recommended  dose  of  1  to  2  mg/kg 
over 5 to 15 min. 
Published literature data show that methylthioninium chloride can successfully be used in children with 
medicinal  product 
induced-methaemoglobinaemia  (new  proposed 
indication) 
if 
taking 
into 
consideration  the  immature  enzyme  function  in  the  newborn  making  them  more  disposed  for 
developing adverse events by the substance methylthioninium chloride itself.  
In  all  reported  cases  of  chemical  product  induced-  methaemoglobinaemia  (new  proposed  indication) 
treatment with methylthioninium chloride was effective (2 cases in children and 10 in adults), except in 
one patient with G6PD deficiency.  
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue was initially proposed for use in children, but only above 3 months 
of  age.  This  recommendation  was  based  on  the  observation  that  infants  below  the  age  of 
approximately  3  months  are  more  susceptible  to  methaemoglobinaemia  produced  by  high  doses  of 
methylthioninium chloride and a contraindication was proposed by the Applicant to be included in the 
SmPC  for  children  3  months  or  younger.  This  contraindication  was  questioned  by  the  CHMP  as  the 
methylthioninium chloride treatment option should be also available for this group, especially as infants 
easier  can  develop  methaemoglobinaemia,  caused  e.g.  by  nitrate  in  water.  The  Applicant  has  now 
included dose recommendations for infants 3 months old or younger based on the very limited clinical 
data available for this population. 
If patients fail to respond to methylthioninium chloride Proveblue, it is likely to be due to cytochrome 
b5  reductase  deficiency,  glucose-6-  phosphate  dehydrogenase  deficiency  or  sulfhaemoglobinemia.  In 
these patients, alternative treatment option should be considered. 
Page 33/47
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
This medicinal product (Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue 5 mg/ml Solution for injection) has fewer 
impurities but the active substance is the same as for the reference product. Methylthioninium chloride 
is the single most used drug to treat drug- and chemical induced methaemoglobinaemia. The efficacy 
assessment  only  rests  on  published  case  reports.  On  this  basis,  the  efficacy  in  treating 
methaemoglobinaemia with methylthioninium chloride must be considered to have been established.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure  
The  incidence  of  intoxications  via  water  nitrates  or  via  drugs  is  very  low  in  developed  countries  and 
particularly in the European Community.  
Table  9  below  summarises  the 
few  data  available  addressing  the 
incidence  of  acquired 
methaemoglobinaemia.  
Table 9: Patient exposure 
Reference 
Cause of 
intoxication 
Number of cases 
reported 
Calculated 
incidence per year 
in Europe 
Location 
Hersh 2004 
Benzocaine 
60 cases since 1950 
Leclerc 2008 
Nitrate 
3000 cases worldwide 
between 1945-1985 
1 
75 
Leclerc 2008 
Nitrate 
1 case between 1989-1993 
2.5 
Worldwide 
Europe and US 
(reported by WHO) 
France (study by 
Zmirou on 9500 
newborns) 
Gruener 1970;  
Shuval 1972 
Nitrate 
2000 cases from 1941 to 
1971 
CSHPF 1998 
Water 
4 cases from 1989 to 1992 
67 
1 
Europe and US 
France 
Based on these data, the maximum reported incidence of methaemoglobinaemia in Europe is 75 cases 
per year.  
Adverse events  
Intravenous  administration  may  cause  abdominal  pain,  headache,  dizziness,  tremors,  anxiety, 
confusional state, chest pain, dyspnoea, tachycardia, hypertension, and hyperhirosis.  
However,  several  of  these  are  also  symptoms  of  methaemoglobinaemia  (Therapeutic  Drugs  1999; 
Martindale 2007; Clifton 2003; Bradberry 2001).  
Clifton et al 2003 mentioned dose related toxicity of methylthioninium chloride. 
Table 10: Dose-related toxicity of methylene blue 
Dose 
Toxic manifestations 
(mg/kg) 
2-4 
Haemolytic anaemia, skin desquamation in infants 
7 
20 
80 
Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, chest pain, fever, haemolysis 
Hypotension 
Bluish discoloration of skin (similar to cyanosis) 
Page 34/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally  nausea,  vomiting  and  dysuria  have  been  reported  in  patients  treated  with  oral  MB 
(Therapeutic Drugs 1999; Martindale 2007; Deutsch 1997).  
Some  cases  of  mild  diarrhoea  have  occurred  after  oral  administration  of  an  aqueous  solution  of  MB 
(Walter-Sack 2009).  
Blue coloration of urine, faeces and saliva can occur.  
Blue  coloration  of  oral  mucosa  and  teeth  has  also  been  observed  after  oral  administration  of  an 
aqueous solution of MB (2.5%)  (Walter-Sack 2009).  
MB  may  impart  a  blue  coloration  to  skin,  which  may  hinder  the  diagnosis  of  cyanosis  (Therapeutic 
Drugs 1999; Martindale 2007). 
Photosensitisation (photo allergy or photo toxicity) may occur after administration of MB.  
Patients treated with MB should be advised to take protective measures against exposure to ultraviolet 
or sunlight until tolerance is determined (Drug facts and comparisons 2004). 
A  number  of  adverse  events  associated  with  methylthioninium  chloride  treatments  have  been 
described when used in the recommended dose interval. The more severe events are linked to higher 
than recommended doses. Reported adverse events are covered in the SmPC. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No  case  of  death  was  reported  in  the  literature  following  IV  administration  of  MB  to  treat 
methaemoglobinaemia. 
Intravenous  injection  of  MB  has  occasionally  caused  hypotension  and  cardiac  arrhythmias,  and  such 
disorders  might  prove  fatal  on  rare  occasions  (Therapeutic  Drugs  1999).  Cardiac  and  blood  pressure 
should be monitored during and after treatment with methylthioninium chloride therapy as reflected in 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Necrotic  ulcers  have  been  reported  at  the  site  of  injection  of  MB  (Perry  1974).  Spinal  cord  necrosis 
causing paraplegia occurred in a patient in whom MB was administered intrathecally (Sharr 1978). MB 
is contraindicated for intrathecal use. 
As  rapid  injection  of  MB may  be  painful  and  extravasation  has  caused  tissue  necrosis,  secure  venous 
access should therefore be ensured before MB administration (Bradberry 2001). 
Two case reports of anaphylactic reaction to MB infusion are described in the literature when MB was 
used  as  a  marker  in  surgical  procedures.  In  one  case,  anaphylactic  reaction  to  MB  appeared  after 
laparoscopic  chromoperturbation,  the  other  in  the  framework  of  general  anaesthesia  in  a  surgical 
procedure for correction of tubal sterility (Rzymski 2003; Dewachter 2005). 
The product information reflects the risk of anaphylactic reactions in section 4.8 and a contraindication 
for hypersensitivity in section 4.3 has been included primarily as a precautionary principle. 
One case of death was reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) 
after administration of MB (MHRA 2008). Unfortunately, no information has been available concerning 
this case report. 
Cases of deaths were reported in infants after intra-amniotic injection of MB to twin pregnant women 
or after IV administration of MB at large doses in two neonates (Kidd 1996; Sills 1994). 
Two  fatal  cases  were  also  reported  death  due  to  overdose  (Sills  and  Zinkham  report  2  cases  of  MB 
overdose in infants). One case was a neonate with trisomy 21 exposed to MB (dose undetermined) as 
Page 35/47
 
 
 
 
 
an intraoperative diagnostic marker and the other a neonate treated who received approx. 20 mg/kg of 
MB for type II glutaric acidaemia.  
Laboratory  tests  were  performed  to  define  the  occurrence  of  MB  toxicity,  phototherapy  for 
hyperbilirubinaemia  and  transfusions  for  anaemia.  Within  hours  after  exposure  to  MB,  the  infants 
voided  green-blue  urine,  followed  by  hyperbilirubinaemia,  recurrent  anaemia  requiring  transfusions, 
and red blood cell dysmorphology, including the appearance of blister cells and Heinz bodies visible in 
both Wright's and supravital-stained peripheral blood smears. 
After the initiation of phototherapy (on day 8, for patients 1 and 2), both infants exhibited cutaneous 
bullae followed by desquamation.  The first patient died on day 15 and the second patient on day 11. 
The authors attributed the death of the 2 infants to an overdose of MB (Sills 1994) 
In  high  dose  (20–30  mg/kg)  methylthioninium  chloride  has  precipitated  severe  intravascular 
haemolysis. 
Lower  doses  may  exacerbate  methaemoglobinaemia  and/or  intravascular  haemolysis,  particularly 
following exposure to agents which themselves cause haemolysis, notably chlorates and aniline-related 
compounds (Bradberry 2001). 
The  serious  adverse  events  noted  above  occurred  in  patients  treated  with  higher  doses  of  MB, 
unauthorised use (inrauterine injection).  No fatalities occurred with IV use of MB for the treatment of 
methaemoglobinaemia, and two cases of anaphylaxis occurred. 
Individuals without methaemoglobinaemia 
The  administration  of  large  intravenous  doses  (≥ 7 mg/kg)  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  to 
individuals  without  methaemoglobinaemia  induces  nausea  and  vomiting,  chest  tightness,  chest  pain, 
tachycardia, apprehension, severe sweating, tremor, mydriasis, blue-green staining of the urine, blue 
staining  of  the  skin  and  mucous  membranes,  abdominal  pain,  dizziness,  paraesthesia,  headache, 
confusion,  hypertension,  mild  methaemoglobinaemia  (up  to  7%)  and  electrocardiogram  changes 
(T wave flattening or inversion). These features resolve generally within 2-12 hours of the injection. 
Individuals with methaemoglobinaemia 
Cumulative  doses  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  may  lead  to  dyspnoea  and  tachypnoea,  presumably 
related  to  reduced  oxygen  availability  caused  by  methaemoglobinaemia,  chest  pain,  tremor,  cyanosis 
and haemolytic anaemia. 
Haemolytic anaemia has also been reported in case of severe overdose (20-30 mg/kg) in infants and 
adults  with  methaemoglobinaemia  caused  by  aniline  or  chlorates.  Haemodialysis  may  be  used  in 
patients with severe haemolysis. 
Paediatric population 
Hyperbilirubinaemia  has  been  observed  in  infants  after  administration  of  20  mg/kg  methylthioninium 
chloride. 
Death  occurred  in  2  infants  after  administration  of  20  mg/kg  methylthioninium  chloride.  Both  infants 
had complex medical circumstances and methylthioninium chloride was only partially responsible.  
The  patient  should  be  maintained  under  observation,  the  methaemoglobin  level  should  be  monitored 
and appropriate supportive measures taken as necessary.  
Laboratory findings 
The use of methylthioninium chloride is associated with some laboratory adverse events data: 
Page 36/47
 
 
 
 
 
Pulse oximetry 
The presence of Methylthioninium chloride may result in an underestimation of the oxygen saturation 
reading  (Fearnley  1995;  Guay  2009).  The  injection  of  methylthioninium  chloride  can  cause  a  false 
indication of SaO2 by interference with changes in light absorption when pulse oximetry is used as an 
indicator of SaO2. It is advisable to obtain an arterial blood sample to confirm PaO2 and SaO2 (Touma 
2007).  
A  special  warning  has  been 
included 
in  Section  4.4  of  SmPC:  “In  cases  of  suspected 
methaemoglobinemia,  it  is  advisable  to  check  the  oxygen  saturation  by  co-oximetry  when  available 
since  pulse  oximetry  may  provide  a  false  estimation  of  oxygen  saturation  during  administration  of 
methylthioninium chloride.” 
Bispectral Index (BIS) 
Methylthioninium  chloride  may  interfere  with  BIS  value  (Matisoff  2006).  Thus,  anaesthesiologists 
should  be  vigilant  for  methaemoglobinaemia  in  patients  receiving  dapsone  therapy  and  for  BIS 
interference with Methylthionimium chloride Proveblue administration. This warning has been included 
in Section 4.4 of SmPC. 
Safety in special populations 
Patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency 
MB  is  not  effective  for  the  treatment  of  methaemoglobinaemia  in  patients  with  G6PD  deficiency  as 
these patients have a diminished capacity to reduce MB to LMB.  
It  is  also  potentially  harmful  as  patients  with  G6PD  deficiency  are  particularly  susceptible  to  the 
haemolytic anaemia induced by MB (Liao 2002). Low grade haemolytic anaemia has also been reported 
in  patients  with  G6PD  deficiency  after  oral  administration  of  390  mg  of  MB  daily  (Therapeutic  Drugs 
1999). Therefore, MB is contra-indicated in patients with G6PD deficiency. 
Patients with renal impairment 
In  the  presence  of  severe  renal  impairment  toxic  blood  concentrations  may  occur  with  conventional 
doses, since MB is eliminated predominantly by the kidney. Therefore, MB should be used with caution 
in patients with severe renal impairment (Therapeutic Drugs 1999; Martindale 2007; Bradberry 2001) 
Methylthioninium  chloride Proveblue  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients with moderate  to  severe 
renal  disease  since  there  is  limited  data  available  and  methylthioninium  chloride  is  predominantly 
renally eliminated. Lower doses (<1 mg/kg) may be needed.  
Use in children 
Extreme  caution  should  be  exercised  when  administering  to  newborns  and  infants  below  the  age  of 
3 months  due  to  lower  concentrations  of  NADPH-methaemoglobin  reductase  necessary  for  reducing 
methaemoglobin  to  haemoglobin,  making  these  infants  more  susceptible  to  methaemoglobinaemia 
produced by high doses of methylthioninium chloride. 
Safety information for children aged 3 to 18 years in published literature does not indicate that MB in 
doses  below  7  mg/ml  seem  to  cause  any  serious  side  effects  except  in  infants  and  in  patients  with 
G6PD deficiency. 
High doses (50 mg iv every 4 hours until the symptomatology receded) of MB have been administered 
to  several  children  2-17  years  in  treatment  of  ifosfamide-induced  encephalopathy.  No  death  or 
neurological sequelae were noted. 
Page 37/47
 
 
 
 
 
Use in the elderly 
No  specific  toxic  effects  have  been  reported  on  the  elderly  without  renal  function  deficiency 
(Therapeutic Drugs 1999). 
Extrinsic factors 
In the literature, no potential interactions with extrinsic factors such as use of tobacco, use of alcohol 
or food habits associated with the use of MB have been reported. 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
There  is  no  published  data  on  IV  injection  of  MB  during  pregnancy.  However,  several  cases  of  intra-
amniotic  administration  of  MB  to  pregnant  women  have  been  reported  demonstrating  the 
teratogenicity of MB following this route of administration in pregnant women. 
The use of MB in pregnant patients is therefore restricted to life threatening methaemoglobinaemia as 
it has been shown that MB is teratogenic. 
There is no published data on whether or not the drug crosses into breast milk. Breast feeding should 
therefore be interrupted if acute treatment is necessary. 
MB  is  not  indicated  for  intrauterine  injection  for diagnosis  of  premature  rupture  of  membranes  or  for 
amniocentesis. 
Patients with hyperglycaemia or diabetes mellitus  
If diluted in glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection, methylthioninium chloride must be used with 
caution in patients with hyperglycaemia or diabetes mellitus, as these conditions may be exacerbated 
by the glucose solution. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Methylthioninium  chloride  should  be  used  with  caution  in  the  treatment  of  aniline-induced 
methaemoglobinaemia  since  it  may  precipitate  Heinz  body  formation  and  haemolytic  anaemia. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  may  reduce  methaemoglobin  concentrations,  but  repeated  doses  could 
aggravate haemolysis without further reducing methaemoglobinaemia. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  can  also  exacerbate  dapsone-induced  haemolytic  anaemia  because  of  the 
formation of the dapsone reactive metabolite hydroxylamine, which oxidises haemoglobin. 
Methylthioninium chloride should not be used to treat methaemoglobinaemia induced by sodium nitrite 
during  the  treatment  of  cyanide  poisoning,  since  cyanide  binding  will  be  reduced  with  resultant 
increased toxicity. Thus, sodium nitrite-induced methaemoglobinaemia is a contraindication 
Methylthioninium  chloride  is  also  contra-indicated  in  methaemoglobinaemia  due  to  chlorate  poisoning 
as the more toxic hypochlorite may be formed. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  should  preferably  be  avoided  in  patients  receiving  drugs  that  enhance 
serotonergic  transmission  including  SSRIs,  bupropion,  buspirone,  clomipramine,  mirtazapine,  and 
venlafaxine. Drug interactions between methylthioninium chloride and SSRIs can cause potentially fatal 
serotonin toxicity. 
An in vitro study showed that methylthioninium chloride is a potent inhibitor of CYP450 1A2, 2B6, 2C9 
and 2C19. The clinical relevance of this finding is unknown but it cannot be excluded that the systemic 
exposure  of  medicinal  products  being  substrates  for  these  isoenzymes  may  be  increased  on 
concomitant administration with methylthioninium chloride. 
Page 38/47
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Based on available data from EU, the maximum reported incidence of methaemoglobinaemia in Europe 
is estimated to be 75 cases per year.  
Intravenous administration has been reported to cause abdominal pain, headache, dizziness, tremors, 
anxiety,  confusional  state,  chest  pain,  dyspnoea,  tachycardia,  hypertension,  and  hyperhirosis. 
However,  several  of  these  are  also  symptoms  of  methaemoglobinaemia.  Intravenous  injection  has 
occasionally caused hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias, and such disorders have been fatal on rare 
occasions. Blue coloration of urine, faeces and saliva can occur. Methylthioninium chloride may impart 
a blue coloration to skin, which may hinder the diagnosis of cyanosis. Photosensitisation (photoallergy 
or  phototoxicity)  may  occur  after  administration  of  methylthioninium  chloride.  A  Drug  Analysis  Print 
covering adverse reaction reports (all routes of administration) to the UK Medicines Agency, during the 
period  July  1963  to  July  2010,  related  some  additional  adverse  events  such  as  aphasia,  agitation, 
hypoxia and urticaria to Methylthioninium chloride.  
If overdosed, methylthioninium chloride can instead oxidize ferrous irons to ferric ions, thus converting 
haemoglobin  to  methaemoglobin  and  cause  haemolysis.  In  severe  over  dosage,  20-30  mg/kg, 
methylthioninium  chloride  can  cause  severe  intravascular  haemolysis  and  haemolytic  anaemia  may 
occur.  
Methylthioninium  chloride  is  not  effective  for  the  treatment  of  methaemoglobinaemia  in  patients  with 
G6PD  deficiency  as  these  patients  have  a  diminished  capacity  to  reduce  methylthioninium  chloride  to 
leucomethylene blue. 
The epidemiologic evidence for teratogenicity of methylthioninium chloride is strong. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity. 
Drug-drug  interactions  between  methylthioninium  chloride  and  drugs  that  enhance  serotonergic 
transmission e.g. SSRIs have been described.  
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
A  number  of  adverse  events  associated  with  methylthioninium  chloride  treatments  have  been 
described when used in the recommended dose interval. The more severe events are linked to higher 
than  recommended  doses.  Reported  adverse  events  are  covered  in  the  proposed  SmPC  and  the 
applicant  has  now  listed  additional  reported  events  to  section  4.8  (aphasia,  agitation,  hypoxia  and 
urticaria) and also included a wording concerning monitoring of cardiac and blood pressure during and 
after treatment with methylthioninium chloride therapy in section 4.4. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Page 39/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important identified safety issues 
Rapid injection of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
Methylthioninium 
activities.  
chloride Proveblue 
Section  4.2  and  4.4  of  the  SmPC  state  that 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  must  be 
injected  very  slowly  over  a  period  of 
5 minutes.   
The  Patient  Information  Leaflet  (PIL)  and 
preparation guide for healthcare professionals 
also includes a warning to this effect. 
It is recommended to include this warning on 
the  outer  carton  to  ensure  that 
in  an 
emergency  situation,  the  information  is  not 
missed  by 
the  healthcare  professional 
administering the injection. 
Dilution with sodium 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
chloride (NaCl) 
activities.   
Section  6.6  of  the  SmPC  states  Do  not  dilute 
with  sodium  chloride  (NaCl)  solution  for 
injection  because  it  has  been  demonstrated 
that  chloride 
reduces 
the  solubility  of 
methylthioninium 
chloride 
(common 
ion 
effect). 
The  warning  is  repeated  in  the  preparation 
guide  section  of  the  PIL 
for  healthcare 
professionals. 
Neonates and infants 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
below 3 months of 
activities.   
age 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  states  that  extreme 
caution 
should 
be 
exercised  when 
administering  Methylthioninium 
chloride 
Proveblue  to  newborns  and  infants  below  3 
months  of  age.  The  same  warning  is  also 
included in the PIL. 
Hypersensitivity to 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
methylthioninium 
activities.   
chloride, or any other 
thiazine dyes 
Section  4.3  of  the  SmPC  provides  for  a  strict 
contraindication 
for  patients  with  known 
hypersensititivity  to  the  active  substance  or 
any  other  thiazine  dyes.  Section  4.8  of  the 
SmPC also includes ‘anaphylactic reactions’ as 
an  adverse  event.  The  same  warning  is 
Page 40/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium nitrite-
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
included in the PIL. 
induced 
activities.   
methaemoglobinaemia 
during the treatment 
of cyanide poisoning 
Section  4.3  of 
the  SmPC  states 
that 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 
Proveblue 
is 
contraindicated  for  use  in  sodium  nitrite-
induced  methaemoglobinaemia.  The  same 
warning is included in the PIL. 
Methaemoglobinaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
resulting from 
activities.   
chlorate poisoning 
Section  4.3  of 
the  SmPC  states 
that 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 
Proveblue 
is 
contraindicated for methaemoglobinaemia due 
to  chlorate  poisoning.  The  same  warning  is 
included in the PIL. 
Patients with Glucose-
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase 
deficiency (G6PD) 
activities.   
Section  4.3  of 
the  SmPC  states 
that 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 
Proveblue 
contraindicated 
for 
the 
treatment 
is 
of 
methaemoglobinaemia 
in 
patients  with 
glucose-6-phosphate 
dehydrogenase 
deficiency 
(G6PD)  due 
to 
the 
risk  of 
haemolytic  anaemia.  A  similar  warning  is 
included in the PIL. 
Deficiency in NADPH 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
reductase 
activities.   
Section  4.3  of 
the  SmPC  states 
that 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 
Proveblue 
is 
contraindicated 
for  deficiency 
in  NADPH 
reductase. A similar warning is included in the 
PIL. 
Subcutaneous and 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
intra-thecal injection 
activities.   
Section  4.2  of 
the  SmPC  states 
that 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue must not 
be  administered  by  subcutaneous  and  intra-
thecal injection. The same warning is included 
in the PIL. 
Patients with aniline-
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
induced 
activities.   
methaemoglobinaemia 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC states  
In 
patients 
with 
aniline-induced 
methaemoglobinaemia,  repeated  doses  of 
methylthioninium  chloride  may  be  required. 
Caution  should  be  exercised  in  the  course  of 
treatment  with  methylthioninium  chloride  as 
this  may  exacerbate  Heinz  body  formation 
and  haemolytic  anaemia.  Lower  doses  should 
Page 41/47
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
therefore  be  considered  and  total  cumulative 
dose should not exceed 4 mg/kg. 
An appropriate warning is included in the PIL. 
dapsone-induced 
activities.   
haemolytic anaemia 
(and/or patients with 
severe anaemia) 
Section 
4.4 
of 
the 
SmPC 
states 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  can 
exacerbate 
dapsone-induced 
haemolytic 
anemia  because  of  the  formation  of  the 
dapsone  reactive  metabolite  hydroxylamine 
which 
oxidises 
haemoglobin. 
It 
is 
recommended  not  to  exceed  a  cumulative 
dose  of  4  mg/kg  in  these  patients.  An 
appropriate  warning  is  also  included  in  the 
PIL.   
Patients with 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
moderate or severe 
activities.   
renal impairment 
(and/or kidney 
disease) 
Section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  states  that  in 
patients  with  moderate  to  severe  renal 
doses 
impairment, 
of  Methylthioninium 
chloride Proveblue may need to be reduced as 
it  is  predominantly  renally  eliminated.  An 
appropriate  warning  is  also  included  in  the 
PIL.   
Diagnosis of cyanosis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
activities.   
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  advises  clearly  that 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue imparts a 
blue  colour  to  skin  which  may  hinder  a 
diagnosis of cyanosis. 
Interaction with 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
serotonergic drugs 
activities.   
resulting in CNS 
toxicity 
Section  4.5  of  the  SmPC  advises  clearly  that 
Methylthioninium 
chloride 
administration 
should  be  avoided 
in  patients  receiving 
serotonergic  drugs  due  to  the  risk  of  CNS 
toxicity.  An  appropriate  warning 
is  also 
included in the PIL. 
Pregnancy, breast-
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
feeding and fertility 
activities.   
Methylthioninium 
Section  4.6  of  the  SmPC  advises  clearly  that 
Proveblue 
intravenously  has  not  been 
administered 
chloride 
investigated  in  pregnancy  and  should  not  be 
used unless clearly necessary. 
Section  4.6  and  5.3  of  the  SmPC  provides 
appropriate  guidance  for  consideration  in 
relation to reduced sperm motility. 
Page 42/47
 
 
 
 
 
 Section 4.6 also advises breast-feeding to be 
discontinued for  up  to  6  days  after  treatment 
with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue.  
Corresponding  advice  as  appropriate  is  also 
clearly communicated within the PIL. 
Haemolytic anaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
activities.   
Section  4.3  of 
the  SmPC 
states  a 
contraindication  for  Patients  with  Glucose-6-
phosphate  dehydrogenase  deficiency  (G6DP) 
due  to  the  risk  of  haemolytic  anaemia. 
Additional  warning  statements  can  be  found 
for  haemolytic  anaemia  within  section  4.4  for 
patients 
with 
chemically 
induced 
methaemoglobinaemia.  
Overdose 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
activities 
Several  precautions  and  warnings  have  been 
included in the SmPC:   
 In 
section 
4.2, 
it 
specifies 
that 
‘Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  for 
administration 
by 
a 
healthcare 
professional’.    Healthcare  professionals  are 
trained  how 
to  administer 
injections 
correctly  and  have  many  years  of 
experience,  thus  reducing  the  likelihood  of 
incorrect administration. 
 Section  4.2 
specifies 
the  maximum 
recommended  cumulative  dose  for  adults 
(7 mg/kg) 
and 
stresses 
that 
the 
recommended 
dose 
should  not 
be 
exceeded.    
In  patients  with  renal  impairment/disease, 
smaller  doses  of  Methylthioninium  chloride 
may  be  required.    A  warning  to  this  effect  is 
included  in  section  4.2  to  reduce  the  chance 
of overdose occurring in these patients. 
Sections  4.2  and  4.4  also  state  that  in  the 
case 
of 
aniline- 
or 
dapsone-induced 
methaemaglobinaemia, 
the 
maximum 
recommended cumulative dose for the course 
of treatment is 4 mg/kg. 
The  PIL  includes  an  appropriate  statement  in 
consideration  that  the  product  is  a  hospital 
administered product. 
The  packaging  is  distinct  and  clearly  states 
Page 43/47
 
 
 
 
 
the  product  name  to  ensure  healthcare 
professionals  will  not  accidentally  administer 
the product, resulting in overdose. 
Important potential safety issues 
Photosensitivity 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
pharmacovigilance 
activities.   
Provepharm  to  monitor  the  literature  and 
post-marketing  data 
to 
ascertain 
the 
incidence  of  photosensitivity  and  if  necessary 
update  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  in  line  with 
the PSUR cycle. 
For all AEs with an 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
unknown frequency 
pharmacovigilance 
activities.   
On  the  basis  of  post-marketing  data,  section 
4.8  of  the  SmPC  can  be  updated  with  AE 
frequencies in line with the PSUR cycle. 
Long term 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
administration  
pharmacovigilance 
activities.   
The  product  remains  an  antidote  for  use  in 
emergency  situations.  Nevertheless,  Section 
4.2  of  the  SmPC  has  been  updated  to  state 
that  “Treatment  should  not  usually  exceed 
one day.” 
Misdiagnosis as a result 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
of underlying cardiac, 
pharmacovigilance 
pulmonary, or 
activities. 
haematologic diseases 
Within a critical care setting, clinicians will be 
aware  of  standard  protocols  which  require 
them to ascertain the patients medical history 
and  differential  diagnosis  prior  to  treatment 
with Methylthioninium chloride.   
Patients with diabetes 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
mellitus or 
pharmacovigilance 
hyperglycaemia  
activities. 
Section 
4.4 
of 
the  SmPC 
contains 
precautionary 
wording 
regarding 
the 
administration  of  glucose  solution  to  diabetic 
and  hyperglycaemic  patient  groups.  It  is 
noted  that  this  advice  would  be  concurrent 
with  the  precautions  ordinarily  taken  by 
clinicians when treating such patients. 
Patients with hereditary 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
(congenital) 
pharmacovigilance 
methaemoglobinaemia 
activities. 
Within a critical care setting, clinicians will be 
aware  of  standard  protocols  which  require 
them to ascertain the patients medical history 
and  make  a  clinical  diagnosis  prior 
to 
treatment with Methylthioninium chloride.   
Methaemoglobinaemia  
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
rebound (resulting from 
pharmacovigilance 
Page 44/47
 
 
 
 
 
intermittent infusion 
activities.   
In  a  clinical  care  setting,  clinicians  will  be 
methylthioninium blue 
or in patients with 
dapsone-induced 
methaemoglobinaemia) 
Missing information 
aware  of  standard  protocols  which  require 
them  to  monitor  patients  before  and  after 
treatment. 
Ethnicity 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Incidence and 
Routine 
Routine risk minimizations activities 
prevalence of medicinal 
pharmacovigilance 
and chemical product-
activities. 
induced 
methaemoglobinaemia  
Methaemoglobinaemia remains a rare 
condition and based on the literature data 
currently available. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
Methylthioninium  chloride  is  the  single  most  documented  and  clinically  used  substance  to  treat  drug- 
and chemical induced methaemoglobinaemia. The clinical experience of methylthioninium chloride over 
the 
last  70  years  has  demonstrated 
its  efficacy 
to 
reverse  most  cases  of 
induced 
methaemoglobinaemia.  
The  applicant  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  has  aimed  at  producing  a  solution  for  injection 
packaged  in  a  suitable  form  for  IV  injection  to  be  in  conformity  with  the  general  monographs  of  the 
Ph.Eur.  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  claimed  to  be  essentially  similar  to  the  reference 
product  Methylthioninium  Chloride  Injection  USP  1%  w/v  by  Martindale  Pharmaceuticals  Limited.  The 
methylthioninium chloride of the Proveblue product is very pure and complies with the purity criteria of 
the Ph. Eur. monograph for methylthioninium chloride. 
This antidote could be life saving. 
The applied new indications  
- 
chemical induced methaemoglobinaemia in adults and  
-  drug-  and  chemical  induced  methaemoglobinaemia  in  newborn  infants,  infants,  children  and 
adolescents  
Page 45/47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are supported by the submitted literature references. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  is  provided  in  a  different  strength  compared  with  the  reference 
product  due  to  a  difference  in  the  solubility.  However,  the  difference  in  solubility  is  small,  and  the 
applicant  has  convincingly  demonstrated  that  the  potential  difference  in  solubility  between 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and the reference product will not impact on the pharmacokinetic 
features.  A  bioequivalence  study  is  not  required  and  it  can  be  concluded  that  treatment  with 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue will result in similar benefits as that of the reference product 
Methylthioninium  chloride  is  the  single  most  used  drug  to  treat  drug-  and  chemical  induced 
methaemoglobinaemia. All poison centres in the EU have since long adopted methylthioninium chloride 
as  the  drug  of  choice  for  treating  this  condition.  No  controlled  clinical  trials  according  to  modern 
standards  have  been  performed  with  methylthioninium  chloride.  This  also  applies  to  the  product 
assessed  here,  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue.  The  efficacy  assessment  rests  only  on  published 
case  reports.  Based  on  these,  the  efficacy  in  treating  methaemoglobinaemia  with  methylthioninium 
chloride must be considered to have been established. There is limited experience for Methylthioninium 
chloride  treatment  in  infants,  but  sufficient  to  establish  the  efficacy  of  the  product  in  this  patient 
population. In addition, available data for other alternative treatment for methaemoglobinaemia in this 
population are almost non-existing. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
A  number  of  adverse  events  associated  with  methylthioninium  chloride  treatments  have  been 
described when used in the recommended dose interval. The more severe events (e.g. cardiovascular 
events) are linked to higher than recommended doses. When used as recommended in the SmPC text 
the risk level is estimated to be low, especially as the patients usually are treated in high care facilities. 
Renal  excretion  is  the  major  elimination  pathway  and  impaired  renal  function  may  lead  to  increased 
systemic exposure. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
As mentioned above, the applicant has convincingly demonstrated that the reduced solubility does not 
lead  to  pharmacokinetic  differences  compared  with  the  reference  product  and  safety  data  can  be 
extrapolated from the reference product. 
As for efficacy, safety data are based on a limited number of case reports. However, the long clinical 
experience  has  created  a  safety  data  base  that  must  be  considered  to  be  reliable.  Although  clinical 
data  in  infants  is  limited,  the  recommended  reduced  dose  should  mitigate  the  risks  in  this  patient 
population. 
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Long clinical experience has demonstrated that  the anti-dote methylthioninium chloride is effective in 
treating  externally  induced  methaemoglobinaemia.  The  reference  product  Methylthioninium  Chloride 
Injection  USP  1%  w/v  by  Martindale  Pharmaceuticals  Limited  has  successfully  been  used  for  many 
years,  and  the  treatment  is  considered  as  life  saving.  Alternative  treatments  exist,  but  have  been 
found  less  effective.  Severe  adverse  events  linked  to  methylthioninium  chloride  treatments  are  few. 
The methylthioninium chloride of the Proveblue product is very pure, which appears to be a potential 
Page 46/47
 
 
 
 
 
advantage  with  this  product.  The  Applicant  has  demonstrated  that  potential  differences  in  quality 
between  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  and  the  reference  product  is  of  no  relevance  for  the 
pharmacokinetic features (indirectly efficacy and safety) and provided sufficient information regarding 
the synthesis of the starting material. Thus, the favourable effects of the treatment are considered as 
undisputable and clearly outweigh the risks. 
  Benefit-risk balance 
Based on previous experience with the reference product, the benefit-risk balance for methylthioninium 
chloride  in  the  treatment  of  methaemoglobinaemia  is  positive.  The  applicant  has  demonstrated  that 
potential differences in quality between Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and the reference product 
is of no relevance for the pharmacokinetic features (indirectly efficacy and safety) of this product and 
provided  sufficient information  regarding  the  synthesis  of  the  starting  material.  Thus,  the  benefit-risk 
balance can be considered as positive. 
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The long positive clinical experience is presently sufficient for establishing benefits and risks related to 
methylthioninium chloride and since quality and quality related pharmacokinetics issues are solved this 
should also be applicable to Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue.  
2.8.2.  Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product 
  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Proveblue  in  the  acute  symptomatic 
treatment  of  medicinal  and  chemical  products-  induced  methaemoglobinaemia  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 47/47
 
 
 
 
 
