14 December 2017 
EMA/20821/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): methylthioninium chloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002029/201705 
Period covered by the PSUR: 06/05/2016 - 05/05/2017  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for methylthioninium chloride, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Eight cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported by the MAH, including cases described in 
literature. Methylthioninium chloride is recognised to be associated with severe central nervous system 
toxicity and has been shown to act as a monoamine oxidase inhibitor that can give rise to serotonin 
toxicity. The available evidence supported the possibility of a causal relationship and inclusion of the 
adverse reaction in the Product Information. A specific warning on this adverse reaction was 
considered of relevance to the prescriber. 
Two literature cases of photosensitivity have been reported by the MAH in this reporting interval. In 
addition, further to a cumulative review performed by the MAH, 10 cases of photosensitivity associated 
with off-label use of methylthioninium chloride have been identified, including photosensitising-induced 
epithelial desquamation in several infants receiving phototherapy. This has been attributed to the 
interaction of methylene blue with light leading to the breakdown of lysosomal membranes. 
Considering the close temporal relationship and the plausible mechanism, the causal relationship 
between methylthioninium chloride and photosensitivity was considered possible. A specific warning 
regarding concomitant phototherapy or use of the product under certain light conditions was 
considered of relevance to the prescriber. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for methylthioninium chloride the CHMP is of the opinion that 
the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing methylthioninium chloride is unchanged 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/20821/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
