Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Methylthioninium 
chloride Cosmo (methylthioninium chloride) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo. The RMP 
details important risks of Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Methylthioninium  chloride  Cosmo's  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Methylthioninium  chloride 
Cosmo should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo should be read in the context of all this 
information  including  the assessment  report  of  the evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  of 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Methylthioninium 
chloride Cosmo’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo® is authorised to aid the detection and visualisation of colon lesions 
during colonoscopy (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains methylthioninium chloride as the active 
substance  and  it  is  given  by  tablets  administered  orally  along  with  a  standard  bowel  cleansing 
preparation, prior to colonoscopy. 
Further information about the evaluation of Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo’s benefits can be found in 
Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/methylthioninium-chloride-cosmo.  
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Methylthioninium  chloride  Cosmo’s  risks,  are  outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Methylthioninium  chloride  Cosmo  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo. Potential risks are concerns 
for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  Serotonin syndrome 
•  Reproductive toxicity 
•  Use in patients with cardiovascular disease 
•  Use in patients with gastrointestinal disease 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Potential risk 1 - Serotonin syndrome 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Serotonin syndrome has been reported with the use of 
methylthioninium chloride / methylthioninium chloride class 
products. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients who are co-administered methylthioninium chloride when 
receiving serotonergic psychiatric drug. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 and 4.5 states that patients who are administered 
serotonergic drugs may experience serotonin syndrome.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important Potential risk 2- Reproductive toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Intra-amniotic injection of pregnant women with a methylthioninium 
chloride class product during the second trimester was associated 
with neonatal intestinal atresia and foetal death. Intra-amniotic or IV 
injection of a methylthioninium chloride class product hours to days 
before birth can result in hyperbilirubinemia, haemolytic anaemia, 
skin staining, methaemoglobinaemia, respiratory distress and 
photosensitivity in the new born 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pregnant and breast feeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
It is recommended in Section 4.3 and 4.6 that methylthioninium 
chloride is not used during pregnancy and breastfeeding should be 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential risk 2- Reproductive toxicity 
discontinued prior to and after treatment with Methylthioninium 
chloride Cosmo. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Missing information 1:– Use in patients with cardiovascular disease 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Missing information 2: Use in patients with gastrointestinal disease 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
 
 
 
 
  
