EMA/292833/2021  
EMEA/H/C/002776 
Lumeblue (methylthioninium chloride)1 
An overview of Lumeblue and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Lumeblue and what is it used for? 
Lumeblue is used in adults as a dye to help doctors see the lining of the colon (large bowel) more 
clearly and improve detection of lesions (abnormalities) during colonoscopy, a procedure to examine 
the colon through a tube with a camera. 
Lumeblue contains the active substance methylthioninium chloride. 
Lumeblue is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but the authorised use, strength, pharmaceutical form and route of 
administration are different. The reference medicine for Lumeblue is Metilénkék Pharmamagist, a 
medicine authorised in Hungary. 
How is Lumeblue used? 
Lumeblue can only be obtained with a prescription. 
It is available as 25 mg tablets. The recommended total dose is 200 mg methylthioninium chloride (8 
tablets) by mouth taken the day before the colonoscopy together with a bowel cleansing preparation (a 
medicine that clears all solid matter from the colon) of 4 litres in total. The first 3 tablets should be 
taken after drinking at least 1 litre of the bowel cleansing preparation; the next 3 tablets should be 
taken 1 hour after the first dose and the last 2 tablets should be taken 1 hour after the second dose.  
For more information about using Lumeblue, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Lumeblue work? 
The active substance in Lumeblue, methylthioninium chloride (also called methylene blue), has been 
widely used for medical purposes. Methylthioninium chloride enters cells such as those in the small 
intestine and colon and temporarily stains the lining of these organs. Because the amount of 
methylthioninium chloride taken up by different types of cells varies, the medicine helps doctors 
identify any abnormalities in the makeup of the lining. 
1 Previously known as Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The tablets have a special coating which allows the medicine to reach the colon before 
methylthioninium chloride is slowly released to stain the lining evenly. 
What benefits of Lumeblue have been shown in studies? 
Lumeblue improved detection of adenoma (a type of tumour linked to increased risk of cancer) or 
carcinoma (a type of cancer) during colonoscopy.  
At least one adenoma or carcinoma was detected in 56% of patients (273 out of 485) who received 
Lumeblue compared with 48% of patients (229 out of 479) who did not receive it. The presence of 
adenoma and carcinoma was later confirmed by examining tissue after removing it from the colon. 
Using Lumeblue did not lead to a higher number of ‘false positive’ results. 
What are the risks associated with Lumeblue? 
The most common side effects with Lumeblue (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
discoloration of the urine and faeces, which disappears after a few days. Short-lived nausea and 
vomiting are also common (they can affect up to 1 in 10 people). 
Lumeblue must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to peanuts, soya or any 
ingredients in the medicine. It must also not be used in patients in whom the enzyme glucose-6-
phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is not working (G6PD deficiency). It must not be taken during 
pregnancy and when breastfeeding. 
Why is Lumeblue authorised in the EU? 
Lumeblue improves detection of adenoma and carcinoma in the colon during colonoscopy, which may 
lead to a reduction in the risk of colorectal cancer if removed. The safety profile of Lumeblue is well 
known from other medicines and products containing the same active substance; the side effects are 
mainly mild or moderate and of short duration. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that 
Lumeblue’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Lumeblue? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Lumeblue have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Lumeblue are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Lumeblue are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Lumeblue 
Methylthioninium chloride Cosmo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 
August 2020. 
The name of the medicine was changed to Lumeblue on 15 December 2020. 
Further information on Lumeblue can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/lumeblue.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2021. 
Lumeblue (methylthioninium chloride)0F  
EMA/292833/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
