SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 June 2002. For scientific information on procedures after this 
date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Inhibition  of  the  renin-angiotensin  system  is  a  well-proven  approach  to  the  treatment  of  arterial 
hypertension. It can be achieved by inhibiting the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) that converts 
angiotensin I into its active form angiotensin II (AGII), or by blockade of angiotensin II (type  AT1) 
receptors. 
Telmisartan  is  a  new  active  substance.  It  is  a  benzimidazole  derivative  antagonist  of  subtype  1 
angiotensin  II  receptors  (AT1)  intended  for  the  treatment  of  essential  arterial  hypertension.  Other 
specific  angiotensin  II  receptor  antagonists  like  losartan,  valsartan,  irbesartan,  eprosartan,  and 
candesartan have already been approved in the European Union. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
Composition 
The medicinal product is available in the form of white to off-white tablets containing 20, 40 or 80 mg 
of  telmisartan.  The  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  is  adequately  described.  The  ratio  of 
excipients to active substance remains constant throughout the dosages.  
Development pharmaceutics 
A  full  development  pharmaceutics  package  has  been  provided  including  the  active  ingredient 
characterisation  and  the  compatibility  studies  with  the  excipients.  There  have  been  no  substantial 
changes in the tablet formulation during development.  
The formulation proposed for commercial use is identical to that used in phase III controlled clinical 
studies,  except  for  a  change  in  the  grade  of  sorbitol  due  to  issues  involving  content  uniformity  that 
occurred during scale-up. The effects of changes in production site, production scale and change in the 
sorbitol grade were addressed in a series of in vitro dissolution tests, which demonstrated equivalence 
of 40 and 80 mg clinical batches. These results of the in vitro tests are considered to be predictive with 
regard to the in vivo bioequivalence.  
After  the  initial  Marketing  authorisation,  the  company  has  developed  a  20mg  tablet  in  order  to 
improve the administration of the 20 mg dose. The 20 mg strength is homologous with the strengths 
already approved and all the strengths are prepared from the same final mixture. 
The  main  physicochemical  properties  of  telmisartan  are  high  lipophilicity  and  polymorphism. 
Structure identification of telmisartan has been provided.  
The finished product is hygroscopic and the selected packaging material (moisture resistant aluminium 
blisters) is considered adequate. 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  is  clearly  described.  Telmisartan  tablets  are  manufactured  in  two  steps. 
The active substance is processed into a spray dried granulate, which is then mixed with sorbitol and 
magnesium  stearate  to  give  a  ready-to-compress  final  mixture.  The  mixture  is  compressed  to  give 
tablets of the stated strengths.  
The manufacturing process of the tablets was subject to prospective validation in accordance with the 
approved  validation  plan.  The  defined  critical  process  parameters  of  the  final  mixture  were  checked 
and evaluated at full scale.  
1/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control of starting materials 
Active substance 
Synthesis  is  performed  in  a  5-step  procedure.  The  description  of  the  synthesis,  in  process  controls 
details  of  conditions;  controls  of  raw  materials  and  yield  achieved  are  considered  acceptable.  The 
specification  includes:  description,  identification,  solubility,  colour  of  solution,  tests  on  related 
substances, residual solvents, heavy metals, water, loss on drying, sulphated ash and assay.  
Impurities 
Four  substances  have  been  identified  as  potential  impurities  of  telmisartan.  The  proposed  limits  are 
acceptable, according to the levels observed in batches used during preclinical and clinical studies and 
in accordance with the ICH guideline. No significant degradation products in the solid state have been 
observed. 
A fifth impurity (impurity V), which gave the most intense impurity peak by HPLC, was the primary 
focus  for  evaluation,  but  its  structure  could  not  be  conclusively  assigned.  At  least  seven  other 
unknown  impurities  have  been  separated  by  the  HPLC  procedure  for  related  substances.  All  the 
unknown impurities are found at levels < 0.1%. Other impurities include heavy metals (< 10 ppm) and 
residual solvents (< 0.1 % each).  
Determination  and  assay  of  the  potential  impurities  was  accomplished  by  a  reverse  HPLC  method 
with  UV  detector.  This  method  has  been  adequately  validated  for  selectivity,  sensitivity,  linearity, 
accuracy, precision and robustness. The detection and quantitation limits for possible impurity I, II, III 
and IV were provided. 
Since  possible  impurity  V  could  not  be  isolated,  validation  of  its  determination  by  HPLC  is  not 
possible. The cause of the problem is that it degrades into three separate compounds during isolation. 
The specification of telmisartan limits the levels of impurity V to not more than 0.2 %. This compound 
was  present  in  development  batches  and  has  therefore  been  qualified  by  toxicological  studies.  In 
accordance  with  ICH  guideline  a  qualification  of  impurities  >  0.1%  is  necessary  when  the  highest 
single dose is > 2 g/day. 
Residual  solvents  have  been  determined  and  assayed  by  direct  injection  GLC.  Validation  of  the 
chromatographic  method  has  been  accomplished  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines.  Tetrahydrofuran 
and formic acid have been determined and assayed by two head space GLC validated procedures.  
Other ingredients and packaging material 
All  ingredients  have  been  adequately  tested.  All  packaging  material  has  been  tested  according  to 
specifications, which ensure their suitability.  
Control tests on intermediate products 
The  spray  dried  granulate  has  been  tested  for  appearance,  identification,  active  substance 
decomposition and assay of the drug substance. The test methods are adequately validated.  
The specifications include the test parameters, particle size and dissolution rate with the corresponding 
analytical  methods.  These  investigations  were  undertaken  to  decide  which  parameters  should  be 
included in the stability program. Therefore the influence of particle size on the dissolution rate was 
investigated. Commercial SD granulate with its typical and reproducible particle size distribution leads 
to  tablets  with  dissolution  rate  consistent  with  the  dissolution  rate  specifications  for  the  tablets 
irrespective of slight variations in the particle size distribution.  
Control tests on the finished product 
The limits proposed for the chemical and physical tests at the time of release and throughout shelf life 
are  justified.  All  quantitative  tests  have  been  validated  and  shown  to  be  suitable  for  the  intended 
purpose. The  specifications for all strengths include  the  following  tests:  identification, uniformity of 
weight,  active  substance  decomposition,  assay  of  the  drug  substance,  dissolution  and  microbial 
contamination. The test methods are adequately validated.  
The  granulate  batch  numbers  used  for  the  manufacturing  of  the  tablets  are  reported  in  the  stability 
reports of the finished product. 
2/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Active substance 
Three batches of the proposed 40 mg and 80 mg tablet strengths were stored in polyethylene bags in 
fibre  drum  for  24  months  at  25  °C/60%  RH  and  for  6  months  at  40  °C/75%  RH.  Parameters  tested 
were appearance, odour, colour and clarity of solution, melting behaviour, decomposition and assay of 
the drug substance. No change in organoleptic, physico-chemical and chemical criteria was observed. 
A  slight  decoloration  was  noticed  after  xenon  light  irradiation,  and  therefore  telmisartan  should  be 
protected from direct sunlight. 
The active substance stability under extreme conditions was found to be stable in alkaline media but to 
decompose  under  acidic  conditions.  Treatment  with  hydrogen  peroxide  resulted  in  formation  of 
additional  products.  These  decomposition  products  did  not  show  up  during  the  accelerated  and  long 
term testing investigation.  
No chemical instabilities are to be expected during storage in any climatic zone. The stability testing 
will be continued in ongoing stability trials.  
Intermediate product 
One  batch  was  stored  for  8  months  at  25  °C/60%  RH  and  40  °C/75%  RH  and  was  investigated  for 
appearance and chemical stability. Two batches were stored at 25°C/60% RH and 40 °C/75% RH for 
6 months, and analysed for appearance, loss on drying and chemical stability.  
An increase in loss on drying was observed at 25 °C/60% RH. The granulate has therefore to be kept 
in tight containers during storage and transport.  
Finished product 
Three  batches  of  40  mg  and  80  mg  strengths  were  stored  in  the  proposed  marketing  package 
aluminium blister at 25 °C/60% RH and 40 °C/75% RH for 12 months. Two batches of telmisartan 20 
mg tablets were stored in the proposed aluminium blister at marketing package 25°C / 60% rel. hum. 
for up to 24 months and for six months at 40°C / 75% rel. hum. Parameters tested were appearance, 
average mass, disintegration time, dissolution rate, hardness, decomposition and assay of telmisartan, 
assessment of the packaging material (aluminium blisters). 
The  parameters  tested  did  not  change  upon  storage,  with  the  exception  of  the  hardness  which 
increased at 40°C / 75% RH after 6 months and the dissolution rate which decreased slightly at 25°C/ 
60% RH. Further stability data on the 40 and 80 mg strengths were provided covering 18 months real 
time date at the submission of the responses to the consolidated list of questions and 36 months real 
time data with the application for a shelf-life extension. Further stability data should be provided on 
the 20 mg strength. The shelf life for telmisartan tablets packed in tight packaging material protected 
from direct sunlight is 36 months for 40 mg and 80 mg tablets and 24 months for 20 mg tablets. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics  
Data from in vitro studies support that telmisartan is a specific antagonist of the AT1 subtype receptor 
with a Ki value of 3.7 nM. Up to the micromolar concentration, telmisartan had no affinity to the AT2 
receptor or to other receptors tested. Its affinity is higher than that of losartan and approaches that of 
AGII. The binding of telmisartan to AT1 receptors is slowly reversible as shown by In vitro receptor 
binding  experiments  and  in  vivo  experiments  in  pithed  rats.  The  latter  experiments  indicate  that 
telmisartan is displaced very slowly from the AT1 receptor by exogenously administered AGII under 
normal physiological conditions. The apparent non-competitive aspects of its pharmacodynamics and 
the  persistence  of  its  pharmacological  activity  (reduction  of  pressor  response  to  AGII  as  well  as  of 
normal  and  high  blood  pressure,  duration  of  inhibition,  timecourse  of  the  effect)  will  be  subject  of 
further preclinical investigations performed by the company. 
In  in  vivo  studies,  telmisartan  antagonised  AGII  induced  pressor  responses  in  all  species  studied. 
Telmisartan  effectively  reduced  blood  pressure  in  different  animal  models  of  hypertension 
3/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(renovascular hypertensive rats, low-renin hypertensive transgenic rats, and  although  apparently less 
in spontaneously hypertensive rats and stroke prone spontaneously hypertensive rats). 
The  AGII  antagonistic  effect  appears  within  one  hour  (in  rats  and  rabbits)  and  two  hours  (in  dogs) 
after oral dosing and lasts for several hours (at least 24 h in the dog). The onset of hypotensive effect 
is dose-dependent and apparently slower than that of AGII antagonism in normal animals. However, 
significant  reduction  of  arterial  pressure  may  be  achieved  in  a  few  hours  after  a  single  oral 
administration of 0.3-1 mg/kg. The hypotensive effect is long lasting (>24 h after high doses 3-6 days 
after repeated doses).  
Telmisartan  interference  with feedback  regulation  makes  plasma  renin activity  and AGII  levels  rise. 
Theoretically  this  might  cause  problems  during  chronic  treatment,  inducing  rebound  hypertensive 
states in the case  of poor compliance, or requiring higher drug dosages to overcome  competition by 
increasing endogenous AGII levels. This issue was addressed in (mREN2) 27-transgenic rats, a model 
of low-renin hypertension, in which recovery of the pre-treatment mean BP after escalating doses (0.5, 
1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg daily) of telmisartan for three weeks was slow. In this model, however, only higher 
doses  or  longer  treatment  with  telmisartan  were  shown  to  increase  plasma  renin  activity  and  AGII 
levels.  
The long-term antihypertensive effect of telmisartan was investigated in several additional preclinical 
studies  submitted  with  the  responses  to  the  CPMP  consolidated  list  of  questions.  These  data  further 
confirmed  the  sustained  efficacy  of  temisartan  with  medium  (6  weeks)  to  long-term  (8  month) 
administration.  No  rebound  hypertension  was  observed  in  another  study  during  a  ten-day  washout 
period.  In  addition,  repeated  challenge  with  telmisartan  in  the  same  animals  at  three  week  intervals 
also suggest there is no adaptive change of the AT1 receptor after pharmacological blockade with the 
AT1 receptor antagonist in the rat.  
With  regard  to  the  high  levels  of  angiotensin  II  during  AT1  receptor  blockade,  it  is  considered  that 
rebound  hypertension  after  discontinuating  the  AGII  antagonist  is  unlikely  since  the  half-life  of 
telmisartan is much longer than that of renin (10 and 15 minutes). Therefore there is enough time for 
renin release to continuously adjust to the decreasing levels of the active compound.  
No major effects on heart rate were observed. In rats and guinea pigs, telmisartan at high doses had 
effects  on  the  ECG  (elevations  of  the  ST-segment,  shortening  of  the  QT-interval,  ventricular 
tachycardia  and  AV-block  with  bradycardia).  In  vitro  electrophysiology  studies  were  not  performed 
because cardiac effects occurred in guinea pigs in vivo at toxicological doses far beyond those, which 
are  anticipated  to  be  in  the  therapeutic  range.  These  effects  were  considered  to  be  non-specific  and 
unrelated to the mechanism of action. These data were confirmed by additional in vitro experiments in 
cardiac  preparations  from  rats  and  guinea  pigs.  Only  very  high  doses  had  a  non-specific  positive 
inotropic  effect  due  to  the  high  concentration  used.  Additionally  in  chronic  toxicity  studies, 
telmisartan had no effects on the ECG in dogs.  
The pharmacology safety programme adressed among others, effects on central and autonomous 
nervous system, cardiovascular and renal systems and did not reveal any adverse effects at relevant 
dose levels and/or concentrations. 
Pharmacokinetics  
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  dogs.  Telmisartan  was  rapidly 
absorbed in mice and rats (Tmax values of 2 hours), more slowly in rabbits and dogs (Tmax values of 7 
hours).  Bioavailability  was  56-75  %  in  mice,  66  %  in  rats  and  14-22  %  in  dogs.  No  clear  gender 
differences in telmisartan plasma concentrations were observed in rats and dogs, whereas telmisartan 
plasma concentrations were higher in female mice compared to males. Values of AUC and Cmax were 
proportional  to  doses  of  up  to  500-mg/kg  day  in  dogs,  but  increased  proportionally  with  doses  of 
≥ 30 mg/kg/day in rats.  
In  vitro  binding  to  plasma  proteins  was  high  in  all  species  studied  (about  99.6%  in  mice,  rats  and 
98.7% in dogs). Apart from interaction studies with hydrochlothiazide, indomethacin and meloxicam, 
the  potential  for  interaction  with  other  medicinal  products  likely  to  be  used  in  patients  with 
cardiovascular disease (other antihypertensive drugs, antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, antidiabetics, 
cholesterol-lowering drugs) is still not known.  
4/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Volume  of  distribution  of  telmisartan  was  3-5  fold higher  than  that  of  total  body  water  indicating  a 
wide  distribution.  Half-life  of  elimination  of  telmisartan  from  plasma  after  oral  administration  was 
between  4  and  20  hours  in  all  species.  Tissue  distribution  studies  showed  that  telmisartan-related 
radioactivity  was  mainly  located  in  the  liver,  and  only  small  amounts  were  detected  in  the  central 
nervous system. In pregnant rats, telmisartan crossed the placenta and was excreted in the breast milk 
of lactating rats.  
The metabolism of telmisartan was similar in all species (mice, rats, dogs and humans) and consisted 
mainly in glucuronidation to a 1-O-acylglucuronide. This metabolite did not demonstrate antagonistic 
activity  at  AT1  receptors.  The  parent  compound  represented  the  majority  of  the  radioactivity  in 
plasma. Metabolism predominantly occurs during the passage through the intestinal wall, but also liver 
and other tissues (such as the kidney) contribute to its metabolism.  
A  supraproportional  increase  of  exposure  was  observed  in  a  number  of  toxicokinetic  studies. 
Additional  data  from  tissue  distribution  studies  of  14C-telmisrtan  after  single  and  multiple  dosing  in 
rats  demonstrated  that  there  is  no  accumulation  and/or  retention  of  radioactivity  in  any  tissue  after 
multiple doses compared to the acute schedule.  
Excretion  is  primarily  faecal  (86-100%)  and  concerns  the  inactive  1-O-acylglucuronide  glucuronide 
metabolite  eliminated  through  the  bile,  within  six  hours  of  administration  (29%  in  mice  to  83%  in 
rats). 
Toxicology  
Acute oral toxicity in rats and dogs was low. The toxicological target organs were the kidney and the 
gastrointestinal tract. 
Kidney effects 
After  oral  administration,  telmisartan  induced  toxicity  to  the  kidneys  (increased  in  plasma  urea, 
plasma creatinine and serum potassium at doses ≥ 4 mg/kg/day in rats, and in dogs at ≥ 5 mg/kg/day), 
gastric and/or duodenal  mucosal  erosions, and  ulcers (in rats  at  doses ≥  4  mg/kg/day and  in dogs at 
≥  40  mg/kg/day).  When  the  extent  of  plasma  protein  binding  was  taken  into  account,  exposure  of 
animals (rats  and dogs measured) at toxic doses overlapped or  exceeded AUC measured in  humans. 
However,  small  or  absent  safety  margins  have  similarly  been  reported  for  both  ACE  inhibitors  and 
AGII antagonists.  
The  induced  kidney tubular damage observed  at  doses ≥  5  mg/kg/day in dogs is consistent  with  the 
reduced  renal  perfusion  as  a  consequence  of  hypotension,  leading  to  tubular  hypoxia  with  tubular 
cellular  degeneration  and  necrosis.  However,  in  humans  telmisartan  is  not  expected  to  induce  a 
hypotensive state with a concomitant reduction of renal blood pressure and ensuing renal lesions.  
In  rats  and  dogs,  telmisartan  induced  renal  juxtaglomerular  hyperplasia  with  hypertrophy  of  the 
afferent  glomerular  arterioles  of  the  kidneys.  These  effects  are  considered  to  be  caused  by  the 
pharmacological action of high doses of telmisartan (blockade of the AGII induced inhibition of the 
renin release and thereby stimulation of renin producing cells) and have also been observed with ACE 
inhibitors  and  other  AT1  antagonists.  Hypertrophy  of  the  juxtaglomerular  cells  induced  by  AT1 
antagonists  and  ACE  inhibitors  is  seen  at  doses  in  excess  of  therapeutically  applied  doses  and  it  is 
considered not to be relevant to the therapeutic use in humans. 
Gastrointestinal effects 
The rat and rabbit seemed to be the most sensitive species towards telmisartan-induced gastrointestinal 
toxicity,  whereas  the  dog  seemed  to  be  less  susceptible.  No  gastrointestinal  adverse  effects  were 
observed in mice. Gastrointestinal damage (ulcers and erosions) was not due to local irritation because 
they  were  observed  after  both  oral  and  intravenous  administraton  of  telmisartan.  In  an  initial  study 
performed  in  Chbb:THOM  rats  with  oral  administration  for  7  days,  the  ulcerogenic  potential  of 
telmisartan was high, although similar to losartan and less than lisinopril. In further studies with two 
other  strains  of  rat,  Sprague  Dawley  and  SHR  Charles  River,  telmisartan  demonstrated  less 
gastrointestinal  toxicity  than  previously  shown  in  the  Chbb:THOM  strain.  The  mechanism  of  the 
gastrointestinal toxicity is not known.  
5/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac effects 
Telmisartan induced reversible decreases in the heart weight of rats at ≥ 1.0 mg/kg/dayafter oral and at 
≥ 20 mg/kg/day after intravenous administration. In dogs at ≥ 5 mg/kg/day after oral administration, 
the reduction was less pronounced and only after a longer exposure period. Significant decrease was 
observed  only  in  the  5-week  study  at  doses  up  to  500  mg/kg/day.  Furthermore  in  2  years 
carcinogenicity studies in mice  and rats, telmisartan induced decreases in heart weights and reduced 
the incidence of age-related myocardial inflammation and fibrosis. 
The pharmacological effect is a reduction of the hypertrophied cardiomyocytes to normal size rather 
than  a  pathological  reduction  of  the  myocyte  diameter.  These  effects  have  also  been  observed  with 
ACE  inhibitors  and  with  other  AT1  antagonists.  The  reduction  of  heart  weight  is  attributed  to  the 
absence  of  the  trophic  effects  of  AGII  on  growing  heart  muscle  cells.  The  heart  weight  reduction 
seems to result from the prevention of cardiac hypertrophy but it apparently does not imply a cardiac 
dysfunction due to loss of contractile activity of smooth muscle cells. In fact the diameter of smooth 
muscle cells has been shown to be reduced, but their number and cellular composition are reportedly 
unchanged. 
Other 
Additionally,  telmisartan  induced  reductions  in  red  cell  parameters.  These  effects  are  well  known 
effects of ACE inhibitors and AT1 antagonists in chronic toxicity studies, since the renin angiotensin 
system seems to be involved in the regulation of erythropoietin in the kidneys.  
Reproduction toxicity studies 
Telmisartan  does  not  affect  fertility  and  has  no  teratogenic  or  embryogenic  toxicity  in  rats. 
Angiotensin receptor antagonists are known to decrease placental perfusion and to cause renal damage 
to the rat foetus during late gestation and early lactation. In the rat, the concentrations of telmisartan 
increased in the foetal compartment during late pregnancy from about 27 % to about 60 % from day 
12 to day 18 of pregnancy. Moreover in rats, telmisartan was excreted in milk at concentrations of 1.5-
2 fold the maternal plasma concentration 4-8 hours post dosing and remained detectable for more than 
48 hours. In rats, it reduced birth weight and slowed body weight gain during lactation.  
There  are  no  adequate  data  on  the  use  of  telmisartan  in  pregnant  women.  Animal  studies  do  not 
indicate  teratogenic  effect,  but  have  shown  foetotoxicity.  Therefore,  as  precautionary  measure, 
telmisartan  should  preferably  not  be  used  during  the  first  trimester  of  pregnancy.  Telmisartan  is 
contraindicated during the 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy and breastfeeding because of the known 
foetotoxic effects drugs acting on the RAS system.  
Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies 
In two year carcinogenicity studies, no telmisartan-related carcinogenic effects were observed at oral 
doses of up to 1000 mg/kg /day in mice, and up to 100 mg/kg/day in rats. No evidence of mutagenicity 
or relevant clastogenic activity was observed in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity 
tests. 
Safety margins 
Chronic treatment  with  telmisartan shows  a small  safety  margin  also with regard to effects on renal 
function in the dog (increase in serum urea nitrogen and creatinine) and gastrointestinal lesions in the 
rat  (no  safety  margin)  and  dog  (low  safety  margin).  Giving  oral  saline  prevents  both  these  toxic 
effects,  which  are  shared  by  ACE  inhibitors  and  other  AGII  antagonists  too.  Despite  this, 
gastrointestinal  toxicity  is  considered  unrelated  to  reduced  gastric  mucosal  blood  flow,  which  is 
reportedly increased during treatment. Although this toxic effect seems to be species-specific (the dog 
is  less  susceptible  than  the  rat,  the  mouse  is  not  sensitive  at  all)  and  rare  in  man  for  both  ACE 
inhibitors and AGII antagonists, a better understanding of its nature could help predict and prevent its 
impact in patients.  
Environmental risk assessment 
Tests  on  the  biodegradability  and  on  the  ecological  effects  of  telmisartan  suggest  that  there  is  no 
significant impact of its proposed introduction.  
6/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Human pharmacology  
Pharmacodynamics 
The  clinical  pharmacology  program  consists  of  23  studies  involving  384  healthy  volunteers  and 
patients.  
Study 502.103 
The suppression of blood pressure response to AGII challenge after 20, 40 and 80 mg telmisartan once 
daily  per  os  in  healthy  young  male  volunteers  (n=48)  was  investigated  in  this  double  blind, 
randomised, 
pharmacodynamics, 
pharmacokinetics and safety of telmisartan.  
placebo-controlled 
determine 
parallel 
group, 
trial 
to 
Telmisartan  dose-dependently  inhibited  the  pressor  response  to  AGII  infusion  with  a  maximum 
inhibition for diastolic blood pressure which was statistically significant (p<0.05) for all dose groups 
compared  to  placebo,  and  ≥  80  %  occurring  at  doses  ≥  40  mg  statistically  significant 
(p< 0.05) compared to 20 mg. The 20 mg dose of telmisartan showed an increase in median maximum 
inhibitory  effect  of  up  to  62  %,  which  was  significantly  different  from  that  seen  with  placebo,  but 
significantly less than that seen following doses of 40 and 80 mg (80% and 96 %, respectively). At 24 
hours  after  dosing,  the  inhibiting  effect  was  statistically  significant  for  telmisartan  doses  ≥  80  mg 
compared to placebo. Doses ≥ 40 mg showed a fast onset of action (0.3 hour) and a long duration of 
action (≥ 35.4 hours).  
Significant  increase  of  sodium  and  potassium  excretion  together  with  urine  volume  were  observed 
within  the  first  3  hours  post  dose  compared  to  the  same  phase  at  the  pre-test  day  after  telmisartan, 
whereas creatinine excretion remains stable.  
In several studies, plasma renin activity and plasma angiotensin II levels increased as expected while 
aldosterone  were  reduced  sometimes  below  the  limit  of  detection.  A  specific,  clinically  relevant 
substrate for these changes is still unknown but similar effects have been described with other AGII 
antagonists or to some degree after angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition.  
No  specific  trials  in  humans  were  performed  to  investigate  the  effects  of  telmisartan  on  cardiac 
function or impulse formation and conductivity.  No  relevant changes were found in the 365 healthy 
volunteers, 6 volunteers with renal insufficiency or 13 volunteers with hepatic failure. Telmisartan was 
not shown to alter heart rate in healthy volunteers. 
In  one  interaction  study  with  glibenclamide  no  changes  induced  by  telmisartan  comedication  were 
found  with  respect  to  the  pharmacodynamic  parameters  (glucose,  C-peptide  and  insulin  plasma 
levels). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  have  been  evaluated  in  the  23  phase  I  studies  in  normotensive 
subjects (N=384) and in 4 clinical studies in hypertensive patients (N=48 [502.201]; N=l14 [502.202]; 
N=274 [502.203]; N=9 [502.211]). 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  orally  administered  telmisartan  was  investigated  in  human  volunteers  after 
single (up to 160 mg once daily) or repeated doses (up to 320 mg once daily).  
Telmisartan was rapidly absorbed after oral administration as solution, capsule or tablet. The time to 
peak  plasma  concentrations,  Tmax,  was  in  the  range  of  0.5  -  3.0  hours  and  tended  to  decrease  with 
higher doses. 
Administration  of  telmisartan  resulted  in  a  disproportionate  increase  of  Cmax,  a  moderate  non-
proportional  increase  of  AUC  on  increasing  the  doses  above  40  mg  after  single  and  repeated 
administration,  and  showed  high  inter-  and  intra-individual  variability.  No  appreciable  drug 
accumulation was observed. 
Pharmacokinetics  was  further  characterised  by  rapid  clearance  (1000  -  2500  ml/min)  and  a  high 
volume of distribution. The mean terminal half-life was greater than 20 hours. 
7/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  at  steady  state  was  assessed  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate 
hypertension  using  capsules  (40,  80  and  120  mg)  and  tablets  (20,  40,  80,  120  and  160  mg) 
administered  once  daily  for  28  days.  These  studies  showed  that  steady  state  was  achieved  within  7 
days  of  dosing.  Results  from  these  studies  confirmed  the  previous  results  in  that  telmisartan  plasma 
concentrations  were  highly  variable,  no  drug  accumulation  was  observed,  plasma  concentration 
increased disproportionately, and the mean terminal elimination half-life was in the range of 22 to 38 
hours. 
After  oral  administration  of  radioactive  labelled  telmisartan,  50%  of  the  total  radioactivity  was 
detected in the plasma. One hour after administration, the parent compound represented approximately 
85% and the inactive glucuronide approximately 11 % of total radioactivity in plasma. The absolute 
bioavailability of orally administered telmisartan was on average 43%. Similarly, after infusion 84% 
of  total  activity  was  recovered  in  the  plasma  as  unchanged  compound  and  up  to  13%  of  activity  as 
glucuronidate  of  telmisartan.  No  other  metabolites  could  be  quantified  either  after  oral  or  after 
intravenous administration. 
The main and only metabolite excreted in urine was glucuronidated telmisartan, only 6% of total urine 
activity  could  be  identified  as  unchanged  telmisartan,  which  corresponds  to  0.06%  of,  totally 
administered radioactivity.  
Telmisartan undergoes saturable first pass elimination in the gastrointestinal tract. The fraction of the 
parent  compound,  which  is  not  conjugated  to  glucuronic  acid  during  first  pass,  is  taken  up  and 
systemically and eliminated predominantly by the liver. The liver capacity for uptake of telmisartan is 
high  but  saturable.  Saturation  of  both  pathways  (intestinal  first-pass  conjugation  and  liver  uptake) 
occurring after doses greater than 40 mg results in high and non proportional systemic concentrations 
of telmisartan.  
Most  of  the  administered  dose  (>98%)  was  excreted  faecally  within  144  h  as  the  parent  compound 
independent  of  route  of  administration.  In  human  faeces,  only  the  parent  compound  is  found. 
Additionally since no data in patients with cholestasis are available, telmisartan is contraindicated in 
patients with biliary obstructive disorders.  
Telmisartan was highly bound to plasma proteins (99.7 %, 99.9% of which bound to serum albumin). 
Renal impairment 
One  controlled  multicenter  trial  (502.211)  investigated  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  telmisartan  (40  to 
80  mg)  compared  to  enalapril  (10  to  20  mg)  given  once  daily  in  71  hypertensive  patients  with 
moderate  renal  impairment  (defined  by  a  Clcrea  value  between  30  and  80  ml/min  inclusive)  over  a      
12-week period. No relevant change in the telmisartan plasma concentration was seen in the subgroup 
of patients (n = 9) for whom these levels were determined. 
Hypertensive  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  responded  to  telmisartan  treatment  in  a 
comparable manner to enalapril. There were no relevant changes in creatinine clearance in both groups 
during  treatment  period.  The  plasma  concentrations  of  telmisartan  in  patients  with  moderate  renal 
failure were comparable with those of healthy volunteers.  
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  telmisartan  was  also  evaluated  in  6  dialysis  dependent  subjects 
receiving  single  oral  doses  of  120  mg  telmisartan  (502.118).  Both  Cmax  and  the  AUC0-24h  were 
approximately  4-fold  lower  compared  with  values  obtained  in  healthy  controls.  The  terminal 
elimination half life remained nearly unchanged. 
The  decrease  in  AUC  in  severe  renal  impairment  seems  to  reflect  the  changes  in  serum  proteins 
known for these patients. This leads to a higher percentage of unbound fraction of telmisartan so that 
distribution  and  elimination  processes  virtually  reduce  plasma  levels.  Total  clearane  is  already  very 
high and most probably not further increased by an increase in telmisartan free raction. The reason for 
the lower plasma levels is most probably a decrease in absorption. However, due to the small number 
of  patients  and  the  high  variability  of  the  measured  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  telmisartan  is 
contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment.  
8/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment (Study 502.123) 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  orally  administered  telmisartan  was  investigated  in  liver  impaired  patients 
(CP  class  A  (n  =  8)  and  class  B  (n  =  4)).  Patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  were  not 
investigated. The mean Cmax was increased by a factor of 3 and AUC0-8 was 2.7-fold higher with oral 
doses  of  20  mg  and  120  mg  telmisartan,  than  in  the  control  group  (healthy  subjects).  The  mean 
terminal elimination half-life remained unchanged. The bioavailability of telmisartan increased in the 
liver impaired volunteers to approximately 100% compared to 42-57% in healthy subjects indicating a 
significant decrease of the first-pass effect (hepatic shunt mechanisms, resulting in liver bypass). 
A  statement  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  has  been  added  mentioning  that  the 
recommended  dose  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  should  not  exceed  40  mg. 
Telmisartan treatment is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Elderly (Study 502.124) 
One  study  was  conducted  in  12  normotensive  elderly  healthy  subjects  (age  range:  65  to  78  years; 
mean:  70  years)  who  received  doses  of  20  mg  and  120  mg  telmisartan  for  7  days.  This  study 
confirmed the non-linear pharmacokinetics of telmisartan. No relevant differences in pharmacokinetic 
parameters were seen between elderly and younger volunteers. Thus, no dose adjustment is required 
for elderly patients. 
Gender effects 
In  female  subjects  Cmax  and  AUCss  were  approximately  3-  and  2-fold  higher,  respectively,  when 
compared to male subjects. These gender differences are not pronounced for other AGII antagonists or 
ACE inhibitors. Due to this unusual finding, the gender effect was investigated in nearly all-clinical 
efficacy studies. The company was asked to further address this issue during oral explanation in July 
1998. Although the AUC is higher in females than males, no gender differences were observed with 
regard to human pharmacodynamics, clinical efficacy or safety. 
No relevant differences were seen between females and males with respect to blood pressure reduction 
and adverse events. Thus, a dosage adjustment in females does not seem to be necessary.  
Bioavailability and bioequivalence 
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  telmisartan  tablets  was  investigated  in  2  studies  comparing  2  oral 
formulations with intravenous infusion in 12 subjects each, one at 40 mg, and the other at 160 mg. For 
the  40  mg  tablet,  absolute  bioavailability  was  42%,  and  relative  to  an  oral  reference  solution 
bioavailability was 90%. 
A  comparison  of  the  plasma  concentration  time  curve  observed  with  the  oral  solution,  capsule  and 
tablet  at  the  80  mg  dose  levels  showed  that  the  elimination  characteristics  of  all  three  formulations 
were similar. When comparing the AUC, capsules and tablets are bioequivalent. 
A  production  batch  of  telmisartan  80  mg  tablets  was  demonstrated  to  be  bioequivalent  to  a  clinical 
batch  of  80  mg  tablets  in  a  trial  including  32  healthy  subjects  (16  female  and  16  male).  No 
bioavailability studies have been submitted comparing the 40 mg tablet intended for  marketing with 
the respective clinical batches used in the pivotal clinical studies. However, this issue is considered as 
satisfactorily  addressed  taking  into  consideration  the  absence  of  substantive  changes  during  the 
pharmaceutical development, the in vitro dissolution tests, and the non-linear pharmacokinetics of the 
80 mg strength. 
Since  in  the  lower  dose  range  (10-40  mg)  telmisartan  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  is  linear  and  all 
tablet  strengths  are  prepared  from  the  same  blend  and  thus  contain  proportional  amounts  of  all 
ingredients, the bioavailability of the 20 mg and 40 mg strengths can be assumed to be comparable. 
Interaction studies 
Effects of telmisartan on the pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamics of other drugs as well as on 
food and on cytochrome P450 enzymes were investigated in 9 studies. 
Interaction  studies  were  performed  with  digoxin,  warfarin,  HCTZ,  amlodipine,  glibenclamide, 
ibuprofen,  paracetamol  and  digoxin.  No  relevant  change  was  seen  with  the  exception  of  digoxin. 
Individual  increases  of  digoxin  trough  levels  of  up  to  39  %  have  been  observed.  However  the  90% 
9/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
confidence  interval  was  within  the  acceptance  limits  of  no  interaction.  Considering  the  narrow 
therapeutic range of digoxin the elevation of trough levels may be of clinical relevance for individual 
cases. In view of these limited available data, a warning to recommend monitoring of plasma levels in 
patients  taking  both  telmisartan  and  digoxin  has  been  included  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics.  
No relevant inhibition or activation of the cytochrome P450 family was observed. Therefore, clinically 
relevant drug-drug interactions caused by therapeutic doses of telmisartan are unlikely to occur with 
drugs as substrates of cytochrome P450 enzymes. 
Effect of food  
Administration  of  telmisartan  with  food  reduced  Cmax,ss  and  increased  the  time  to  maximum  plasma 
concentrations  (Tmax,ss).  The  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  analyses  showed  a  positive 
correlation  between  blood  pressure  reduction  and  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  suggesting  that 
telmisartan 40 mg fasted, telmisartan 80 mg fed and telmisartan 80 mg fasted may all be on the plateau 
of the dose response with telmisartan 40 mg fed somewhat lower. Therefore dosing telmisartan with 
food does not appear to result in diminished therapeutic efficacy.  
A  statement  was  included  in  section  5.2  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics.  
Clinical experience 
The  efficacy  of  telmisartan  in  patients  with  hypertension  was  investigated  in  18  clinical  trials 
conducted in North America and in Europe.  
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  effect  on  supine  diastolic  blood  pressure  at  trough,  measured  as  the 
mean  change  from  baseline  at  study  endpoint.  The  results  were  analysed  using  the  intent-to-treat 
population. Beneficial effects of telmisartan on mortality and morbidity are currently unknown. 
Placebo controlled dose response studies 
Study  502.202  was  a  placebo-controlled  study  in  which  207  hypertensive  patients  (DBP  100- 
114 mmHg) were randomised to receive 40 mg (n=40), 80 mg (n=41), 120 mg (n=41), telmisartan, 20 
mg enalapril (n=42), or placebo (n=43), once daily for four weeks. 
All telmisartan doses significantly lowered diastolic and systolic blood pressure compared to placebo 
after  28  days  of  treatment.  For  all  dose  groups  a  trough  to  peak  ratio  >  80%  was  found  for  both 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure lowering effect. 
Study  502.203  was  a  placebo-controlled  study  in  which  274  hypertensive  patients  (DBP  100  to  
114 mmHg) were randomised to receive 20 mg (n=47), 40 mg (n=47), 80 mg (n=44), 120 mg (n=45), 
and 160 mg (n=45), or placebo (n=46) once daily for four weeks. 
All  doses  of  telmisartan  significantly  lowered  the  diastolic  and  systolic  blood  pressure  compared  to 
placebo after four weeks of treatment. However no dose-response relationship was established among 
telmisartan doses for supine diastolic blood pressure. There was statistically significant evidence for a 
linear  dose-response  relationship  among  telmisartan  doses  for  supine  systolic  blood  pressure  with 
doses  ≥  40mg  being  significantly  more  effective  than  20  mg.  Trough  to  peak  ratios  of  the  diastolic 
blood pressure lowering effect were found to be > 80% for all dose groups, while for systolic blood 
pressure with a ratio ≥ 66% only doses ≥ 40mg exceeded the 50% threshold. The mean trough plasma 
concentration of telmisartan was dose-dependent.  
This  study  confirms  that  a  considerable  proportion  (about  1/5)  of  hypertensive  patients  may  benefit 
from the 20 mg dose. The systolic BP lowering effect of the 20 mg dose is shorter-lasting than with 
higher  doses.  From  11  h  post-dose  onwards  no  significant  reduction  of  systolic  BP  was  found, 
although the reduction of diastolic BP was still significantly greater than with placebo at 12 and 24 h. 
Though questionable on the basis of the available data, the alleged shorter-lasting effect indicated by 
the lower trough-to-peak ratio might be a problem. The 20 mg dose might require better compliance in 
order to maintain satisfactory control of BP. 
The  trough-to-peak  ratio  for  the  20  mg  dose  is  49%,  just  below  the  accepted  criteria  for  once-daily 
regimen (at least 50% of the peak effect remaining at the end of the 24 hours). When trough-to-peak 
10/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
ratios are calculated individually for patients rather than by treatment group, the medians range from 
31%  to  53%  for  supine  systolic  BP.  This  means  that  for  most  patients,  also  from  dose  groups  other 
than the 20 mg one, the trough-to-peak ratio might actually be too low. 
Study  502.206  was  a  placebo-controlled  study  in  which  440  hypertensive  patients  (supDBP  95- 
114  mmHg)  were  randomised  to  receive  40,  80,  120  and  160  mg  telmisartan,  20  mg  enalapril  or 
placebo once daily for 12 weeks. 
All  doses  of  telmisartan  significantly  lowered  the  diastolic  and  systolic  blood  pressure  compared  to 
placebo.  
Results of studies 502.202, 502.203 and 502.206 demonstrate that telmisartan given at doses of 20, 40, 
80, 120 and 160 mg once daily for 4 to 12 weeks is more effective than placebo in lowering diastolic 
and systolic blood pressure. However, there was no relevant dose-related decrease in diastolic blood 
pressure  response  or  increase  in  response  rates  among  the  telmisartan  groups.  Neither  a  minimum 
effective dose nor a plateau in the dose-response curve was identified. 
Due to the limited number of patients involved in these studies, the time to recovery of baseline BP 
after  discontinuation  of  treatment  with  telmisartan,  and  its  dose  relationship  was  difficult  to  assess. 
There was an apparent trend to dose relationship for the time to recovery of baseline SBP whereas data 
concerning DBP were inconsistent.  
Placebo-controlled studies 
Two  placebo-controlled  studies  were  performed  using  a  dose  titration  scheme  with  either  one 
(502.207)  or  two  titration  steps  (502.208).  The  design  included  the  additional  active  comparison 
against atenolol (502.207) and amlodipine (502.208).  
With  respect  to  blood  pressure  measurements  both  trials  were  identical  to  the  previously  described 
fixed dose trials, while study 502.208 also included 24h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. 
Study  502.207  was  a  placebo-controlled,  randomised  parallel-group  dose-titration  multicenter  study 
with mild to moderate essential hypertension (mean supDBP >95 and <114 mmHg). 236 patients were 
randomised  to  receive  either  40  mg  telmisartan  (uptitration  to  80  mg),  80  mg  of  telmisartan 
(uptitration to 120 mg), or 50 mg atenolol, (uptitration to 100 mg), or placebo once daily for 8 weeks.  
Both telmisartan regimens showed statistically significant reductions in supDBP and supSBP 
compared to placebo. There were no statistically significant differences between the telmisartan 
regimens or between the telmisartan regimens and atenolol.  
Study  502.208  was  a  placebo-and  active  controlled,  randomised  parallel-group  dose  titration 
multicenter study in patients with mild to moderate hypertension (mean supDBP = 95 = 114 mmHg). 
232 patients were randomised to receive either 40 mg telmisartan (uptitration to 80 mg and 120 mg), 
or 5 mg amlodipine (uptitration to 10 mg), or placebo once daily for 12 weeks. 
The telmisartan regimens showed statistically significant reductions in supDBP and supSBP compared 
to placebo. There were no statistically significant differences between the telmisartan and amlodipine 
regimens. 
Results  of  studies  502.207  and  502.208  demonstrate  the  antihypertensive  efficacy  and  safety  of 
telmisartan  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  mild  to  moderate  hypertension  in  a  once  daily  dosing 
regimen  with  telmisartan  40-120  mg  compared  to  placebo  for  the  period  of  2  to  3  months.  The 
antihypertensive  effect  was  comparable  to  atenolol  and  amlodipine.  However,  the  120  mg  dose 
resulted in no greater antihypertensive effect than 80 mg. It also appeared from the data that a certain 
group of patients who did not respond to 40 mg or 80 mg dose was unlikely to achieve the target BP 
response at higher doses (120 mg). These data also confirmed the results of the dose-finding studies 
demonstrating  no  relevant  dose-related  decrease  in  diastolic  blood  pressure  response  or  increase  in 
responder rates among the different telmisartan dose regimens. In study 502.208, 48% of telmisartan-
treated patients responded to the 40 mg dose whereas in study 502.207 this proportion of patients was 
45%.  
Long-term active controlled studies 
The  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  of  telmisartan  was  evaluated  in  4  double  blind  active  controlled 
11/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
studies. Two studies (502.214 and 502.216) are described and evaluated in this section. The other two 
long-term  studies  are  assessed  under  studies  in  elderly  (502.210)  and  under  controlled  studies  in 
combination with other antihypertensive agents (502.215). 
Study 502.214 was a randomised, double blind, active controlled, parallel group in patients with mild 
to moderate essential hypertension (supDBP = 95 and = 114 mmHg). 578 patients were randomised to 
telmisartan (40 mg with uptitration to 80 and 160 mg once daily) compared to lisinopril (10 mg with 
uptitration to 20 and 40 mg once daily), with addition of open-label HCTZ (12.5 or 25 mg). The total 
duration of treatment was 52-60 weeks (up to 12 weeks titration and 48 weeks maintenance period).  
Study  502.216  was  a  double  blind,  active  controlled  parallel-group  study  in  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate essential hypertension (mean supDBP = 95 = 114 mmHg). 533 patients were randomised to 
telmisartan (40 mg to 80 mg to 120 mg once daily) or atenolol (50 mg to 100 mg, once daily). The 
duration of double blind active treatment was 26  weeks. In case of insufficient response HCTZ was 
added at week 8. 
Results  from  studies  502.214  and  502.216  confirmed  the  usefulness  of  telmisartan  regimen  starting 
with 40 mg, but offered less information beyond the 80 mg dose. Furthermore, the results showed that 
the addition of HCTZ to telmisartan had a greater additional antihypertensive effect than uptitration to 
the highest telmisartan dose. Efficacy and safety were comparable to the treatments with lisinopril and 
atenolol.  Both  the  clinically  irrelevant  increasing  hypotensive  effect  on  increasing  the  dose  above 
80  mg  daily  and  the  positive  interaction  with  HCTZ  are  mentioned  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.  
Long-term uncontrolled studies 
Long-term  efficacy  of  telmisartan  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  essential  hypertension  was 
evaluated in 4 open-labelled, uncontrolled studies (502.219, 502.220, 502.221, 502.228). Two studies 
(502.219, 502.220) were long-term open-label extensions of controlled clinical trials.  
These studies demonstrated that telmisartan is effective and safe in long-term use. The proportion of 
patients with normalised blood pressure by telmisartan monotherapy (40 or 80 mg) was approximately 
63% (ranging from 41-73% in the studies). The addition of HCTZ in patients who were not controlled 
with  monotherapy  resulted  in  an  increase  of  approximately  17%  of  the  proportion  of  controlled 
patients. Overall, approximately 80% of the patients were controlled (i.e. had a DBP < 90 mmHg) at 
last available trough. 
Active controlled studies in severe hypertension 
Two  trials  were  conducted  in  patients  with  severe  hypertension  [502.209,  502.238].  Study  502.209 
had  to  be  discontinued  prematurely  due  to  recruitment  difficulties  and  is,  therefore,  not  suitable  to 
demonstrate efficacy. 
Study 502.238 is an interim report of an open-label comparison of the antihypertensive efficacy and 
safety of telmisartan (80 and 160 mg once daily) versus enalapril (20 and 40 mg once daily), with the 
optional addition of 25 mg HCTZ and 5 mg amlodipine, in 48 patients (telmisartan: n=34, enalapril: 
n=14) with severe essential hypertension (supDBP > 115 and < 1.30 mmHg) over a treatment period 
of 8 weeks. 
Efficacy and safety of telmisartan monotherapy in patients with severe essential hypertension was not 
demonstrated in  proper  controlled  clinical trials. However,  it appeared that the addition  of  HCTZ  to 
telmisartan  is  effective  in  patients  with  severe  hypertension.  Therefore,  it  is  proposed  that  the 
indication  should  include  all  degrees  of  essential  hypertension  with  the  option  to  add  HCTZ  to 
telmisartan monotherapy in case of non-response. 
Studies in elderly patients 
The efficacy of telmisartan in elderly (= 65 years old) was investigated in one active controlled study 
as well as in subgroup analyses in the controlled clinical trials. 
Study 502.210 was a randomised, double blind, active controlled parallel group trial in patients with 
mild  to  moderate  essential  hypertension.  278  patients  were  randomised  either  to  telmisartan  (20-40- 
80  mg  once  daily),  or  enalapril  (5-10-20  mg  once  daily)  alone  and  in  combination  with  HCTZ 
(12.5 mg to 25 mg once daily). The duration of the study was 26 weeks. 26% of patients were over 75 
12/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
years of age. 
Blinded titration steps were planned for both drugs (telmisartan starting dose 20 mg) every four weeks 
for  the  first  12  weeks  on  the  basis  of  diastolic  BP.  Telmisartan  20  mg  controlled  diastolic  BP 
adequately in the first four-week  titration  period in 33.1% of patients. Only  one out  of four  patients 
(24.1%)  who  failed  to  respond  to  telmisartan  20  mg  at  week  4  became  responders  at  week  8  after 
taking  40  mg  for  four  further.  At  week  12  telmisartan  had  normalised  diastolic  BP  in  63.2%  of 
patients; 16.9% were still on monotherapy with telmisartan 20 mg. 
Results  showed  that  oral  doses  of  20  to  80  mg  telmisartan  once  daily  (with  or  without  addition  of 
HCTZ) lowered blood pressure as well as oral doses of 5-20 mg enalapril once daily (with or without 
addition  of  HCTZ).  No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  both  treatments  groups.  The 
response rates were high in both treatment groups. 
Subgroup  analyses  in  the  controlled  clinical  studies  showed  no  relevant  difference  in  mean  blood 
pressure changes between elderly and younger patients. 
Controlled studies in combination with other antihypertensive agents 
Two controlled trials investigated the combination of telmisartan with HCTZ (502.204, 502.215). 
Study 502.204 is a factorial design placebo-controlled study that evaluated telmisartan alone (20, 40, 
80, 160 mg), HCTZ alone (6.25,12.5, 25) and all possible combinations of the two products during an 
8  week  treatment  period.  A  total  of  818  patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  one  to  the  20  different 
treatment groups. 
Telmisartan alone, 20 to 160 mg, significantly decreased trough DBP and SBP compared to placebo. 
HCTZ  decreased  DBP  and  SBP  in  a  dose-related  manner  over  the  range  of  6.25  to  25  mg.  The 
response at trough to 6.25 mg was not significantly greater than placebo.  
The benefit of the combination was confirmed by the response surface analysis of adjusted means of 
all  treatment  groups,  which  indicated  that  most  of  the  combination  treatments  resulted  in  better 
response than the respective individual components. Telmisartan 80 mg/HCTZ 12.5 combination was 
significantly  better  than  its  individual  components  in  decreasing  both  systolic  and  diastolic  blood 
pressure  after  8  weeks.  The  combination  telmisartan  40  mg/HCTZ  12.5  showed  smaller  benefits 
compared to the components. 
These results suggest that the 20 mg dose is not to be disregarded. In some patients the reduction of 
both  systolic  BP  and  diastolic  BP  may  be  achieved  better  by  adding  hydrochlorothiazide  to  20  mg 
telmisartan than by increasing the dosage of the latter. 
Subgroup  analysis  showed  that  the  magnitude  of  the  DBP  and  SBP  reduction  with  telmisartan 
monotherapy  was  less  in  black  than  in  white  patients.  Numerous  studies  have  already  demonstrated 
that black hypertensive patients are less responsive than whites to blood pressure-lowering effects of 
ACE  inhibitors.  Although  not  supported  by  specific  data  on  the  relation  between  the  PRA  and 
telmisartan effect in blacks, the lower hypotensive effect of telmisartan in this population is mentioned 
in the summary of product characteristics.  
Study  502.215  was  a  controlled  long-term  comparison  of  monotherapy  with  telmisartan  40  mg  and 
80 mg compared with combination therapy of telmisartan 40 or 80 mg with HCTZ 12.5 mg The study 
involved  363  hypertensive  patients  and  aimed  to  evaluate  the  percentage  of  patients  achieving  a 
response defined by a reduction of DBP to < 90 mmHg. The treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
Overall, 57.4% of patients (81/141) who failed to meet the goal response with either 40 mg or 80 mg 
telmisartan as monotherapy met the goal response with combination therapy (telmisartan and HCTZ). 
Studies  502.210,  502.214,  502.216  were  3  other  controlled  long-term  studies  in  which  HCTZ  was 
added in an open way if blinded titration of study drugs failed to control diastolic blood pressure. The 
addition of HCTZ resulted in normalisation rates of diastolic blood pressure in between 40 and 70 % 
of non-responders which is in good agreement with those seen in studies 502.204 and 502.215. 
On  the  basis  of  these  results  it  is  recommended  that  a  thiazide  diuretic  like  HCTZ  can  be  added  to 
telmisartan if patients do not respond to telmisartan monotherapy. Other antihypertensive agents were 
not investigated in controlled studies in combination with telmisartan. 
13/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Overall extent of exposure and premature discontinuation 
384  subjects  received  telmisartan  in  23  clinical  pharmacology  trials.  A  total  of  4,441  adult  patients 
were enrolled in clinical trials of hypertension, 2,969 of which started treatment with telmisartan, 396 
patients  received  placebo  and  1,076  patients  were  treated  with  comparative  antihypertensive  agents 
including enalapril, atenolol, lisinopril, amlodipine and HCTZ.  
Overall,  including  patients  switched  to  telmisartan  from  other  treatment  groups  in  open  extension 
studies, 3,445 patients were treated with telmisartan either alone or in combination with HCTZ. 
A total of 1,400 patients in the safety database received telmisartan for 6 months or more, and a total 
of 415 patients received telmisartan for more than one year. Telmisartan was used as monotherapy in 
3,156  patients,  841  of  which  received  monotherapy  for  six  months  or  more.  Of  these,  253  patients 
received monotherapy for one year or more. The combination telmisartan/HCTZ was used by a total 
of 1,331 patients, of which 614 were treated for = 3 months. 
The majority of the patients received 40 mg and 80 mg doses of telmisartan. 169 patients were treated 
with the 80 mg telmisartan regimen for more than one year. 
The  incidence  of  premature  discontinuation  in  the  telmisartan  group  due  to  adverse  events  was  low 
(4.8%), similar to the discontinuation rate of placebo (5.8%), and lower than the discontinuation rate 
of the comparator (7.9%). 
Analyses of adverse experiences 
Altogether, 2,144 of 3,445 patients treated with telmisartan (62.2%) experienced at least one treatment 
emergent adverse event during the course of clinical hypertension trials, which ranged from one week 
to more than 52 weeks. 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  include  headache  (11.8  %),  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection (10.7%), pain (7.6%), dizziness (6.6%), back pain (6.0%), fatigue (4.6%), diarrhoea (4.4%) 
sinusitis  and  bronchitis  (both  4.1  %),  coughing  (3.2%),  influenza-like  symptoms  (3.0%),  dyspepsia 
(2.7%),  chest  pain  (2.5%),  myalgia  (2.4%),  nausea  (2.2%),  pharyngitis  and  urinary  tract  infections 
(both 2. 1 %). 
The adverse event profile of telmisartan treatment in placebo-controlled trials appeared comparable to 
that  of  placebo.  Events  occurring  with  more  than  a  1%  difference  with  telmisartan  than  placebo 
included  backpain,  pharyngitis,  diarrhoea  and  urinary  respiratory  infection.  No  treatment-emergent 
adverse events occur with increasing  frequency with escalating telmisartan  doses; no adverse events 
appear to have a dose-related frequency of severity. 
Because  of  the  greater  extent  of  exposure,  the  adverse  event  incidence  rates  in  the  long-term 
controlled trials were higher than in placebo-controlled studies, but the reported events were similar in 
the telmisartan or comparator groups with the exception of diarrhoea and upper respiratory infection 
which were about 1 % higher in the telmisartan group. 
The adverse event profile in the long-term uncontrolled studies did not differ from that of long-term 
controlled studies. Only a few events, which were below the 1% threshold in randomised, controlled 
long-term studies appeared at this threshold (= 1 %) in uncontrolled long-term studies. These included 
gastritis, unspecified  gastrointestinal symptoms, angina pectoris and eczema; but all occurred in less 
than 1.5 %. 
Serious adverse events 
100  (2.  9%)  of  3,445  patients  treated  with  telmisartan  in  19  clinical  hypertension  trials  experienced 
serious adverse events.  
Three patients had serious adverse events that resulted in death while receiving telmisartan treatment. 
No deaths occurred during treatment with placebo or other antihypertensive agents.  
A  presumed  myocardial  infarction  resulting  in  death  in  study  502.202  was  considered  by  the 
investigator  to  be  related  to  study  medication.  For  the  second  case  (cardiac  arrest),  both  the 
investigator and clinical monitor felt that there was a reasonable possibility that the event was caused 
14/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
by the study drug in the second case. For the third case (cerebrovascular disorder) both the investigator 
and clinical monitor considered the event to be unrelated to study drug.  
Among  events  concerning  the  cardiovascular  system,  the  most  frequent  serious  adverse  events 
reported  with  telmisartan  were  myocardial  infarction  (9  patients,  0.3%),  angina  pectoris  (7  patients, 
0.2%),  chest  pain  (6  patients,  0.2%)  hypertension,  atrial  fibrillation  (4  patients,  0.1%)  and  coronary 
disorder  (2  patients,  0.1  %).  The  events  were  judged  to  be  possibly  related  to  telmisartan  by  the 
investigator or sponsor in three of the angina pectoris cases, in three cases of hypertension, and in one 
case each of atrial fibrillation, chest pain, cardiac arrest and palpitations.  
Serious  adverse  events  pertaining  to  the  gastrointestinal  system  were  reported  in  six  patients  (0.2%) 
treated with telmisartan. None of these events was considered related to telmisartan. 
There was one report of a serious renal adverse event with telmisartan. This occurred in a patient with 
pre-existing  renal  impairment  who  was  hospitalised  for  a  severe  urinary  tract  infection.  Telmisartan 
was discontinued and the urinary tract infection was treated with antibiotics. Two days later the patient 
developed  a  worsening  of  renal  insufficiency  that  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  possibly 
related to telmisartan. 
The incidence as well as the type of serious adverse event with telmisartan is comparable with other 
already licensed angiotensin antagonists. No additional risks were seen on the basis of the submitted 
data. 
Analyses of laboratory parameters 
The  incidence  of  marked  changes  in  the  majority  of  laboratory  parameters  was  less  than  1  %  and 
similar  for  both  telmisartan  and  placebo  in  the  six  placebo-controlled  trials.  Triglycerides  were  the 
parameter with the highest incidence (16.3% vs. 14.4%). The increase in uric acid (0.5% vs. 0%), and 
the decrease in haemoglobin (0.8% vs. 0.3%), and platelet count (0.8% vs. 0 %) were more frequent in 
the telmisartan group than in the placebo group. 
In  the  total  telmisartan  population  (n=3,445)  the  incidence  of  marked  changes  was  similar  to  the 
placebo-controlled  trials.  Marked  changes  in  triglyceride  levels  (19.3%)  and  platelet  counts  (3%) 
occurred with a higher frequency than other parameters for all telmisartan-treated patients. In addition, 
marked increases in BUN were  noted  in 3.4%  of all  telmisartan  patients, which were  more frequent 
during  treatment  with  telmisartan/HCTZ  combination  therapy  (4.2%  versus  1.0%).  Among  patients 
with  normal  baseline  of  renal  functioning,  the  incidence  of  marked  increases  in  BUN  was  0.5%  on 
telmisartan monotherapy. 
Fourteen  patients  (0.4%)  experienced  hepatic  adverse  events  of  increased  γ-GT,  SGOT,  SGPT  or 
abnormal hepatic function. The intensities of these events were mild for nine patients and moderate for 
five patients.  
Altogether, laboratory adverse events led to permanent discontinuation of telmisartan treatment for 4 
patients (0.1%). Laboratory test parameters leading to discontinuation were hyperuricemia, increased 
BUN  and  increased  serum  creatinine  in  one  patient,  granulocytopenia  in  one  patient,  and  abnormal 
hepatic function in 2 patients. 
Subgroup analysis of adverse events by age in clinical trials of hypertension 
1,606  out of  2,591  patients (62.0%) experienced  at  least  one adverse event in the =  64 years group, 
compared to 436/686 (63.6%) in the 65-75 years group and 101/168 (60.1%) in the = 75 years group. 
There  were  no  individual  events,  or  patterns  of  events,  for  which  elderly  telmisartan  patients 
experienced a markedly higher incidence including orthostatic events, dizziness, fatigue and cough. 
In general, in the therapeutic study population the overall incidence of adverse events was not higher 
in the = 65 years group than in the < 65 years group. 
The  safety data in the enalapril-controlled  long-term  study  502.210 in  elderly  show no difference  in 
the incidence rates of adverse events between telmisartan and enalapril in elderly (each 70.5%). 
15/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Events of special interest 
Orthostatic changes 
Fifty-six  (1.6%)  telmisartan  patients  experienced  adverse  events,  which  involved  postural  changes. 
Almost half of the telmisartan patients were using HCTZ at the initial onset of the orthostatic event. 
Most of the events were mild and did not result in discontinuation.  
Rebound hypertension 
Rebound  hypertension  following  discontinuation  of  telmisartan  treatment  was  reported  in  one  of  74 
patients  treated  with  telmisartan  40-120  mg  who  participated  in  the  ten-day  no-treatment  washout 
period  in  placebo-controlled  trial  502.202.  This  period  of  aggravated  hypertension  in  a  patient  non-
responding  to  telmisartan  during  active  drug  treatment  was  not  considered  drug  related  by  the 
investigator. 
Cough 
The  incidence  of  cough  occurring  with  telmisartan  was  similar  to  that  reported  for  placebo-treated 
patients (1.6%) in six placebo-controlled trials and was significantly less frequent than with enalapril 
and lisinopril.  
Gastrointestinal adverse events 
Telmisartan  plasma  concentrations  in  man  for  some  doses  studied  in  phase  III  were  similar  to  or 
exceeded those seen at the minimal toxic level at which gastric erosions/ulcers were seen in preclinical 
studies  in  rats  and  dogs.  Therefore,  clinical  trial  protocols  included  prospective  monitoring  of 
gastrointestinal adverse events. 
Overall, gastrointestinal adverse events were reported by 15.1 % of patients treated with telmisartan in 
clinical  hypertension  trials.  Diarrhoea  was  the  most  common  gastrointestinal  adverse  event  (4.4%), 
followed by dyspepsia (2.7%), nausea (2.2%) and abdominal pain (1.7%). 
The  discontinuation  rate  for  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  during  telmisartan  therapy  was  27/3445 
patients (0.8%). Telmisartan was discontinued in ten patients (0.3%) due to diarrhoea, in five (0.1%) 
due to dyspepsia, and in three patients each (0.1%) due to nausea and abdominal pain. 
Data showed that despite the absence of dose dependent gastrointestinal toxicity, there was a relatively 
high incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events (from 6.0 to 8.5%, in patients without gastrointestinal 
history;  from  8.0  to  23.1%  in  patients  with  gastrointestinal  history;  from  6.2  to  9.0%  overall).  Data 
from  the  long-term  active  control  trials  suggested  that  duration  of  exposure  to  telmisartan  may 
increase the risk of gastrointestinal toxicity. 
Comparable  data  were  found  for  patients  treated  with  active  comparator  drugs  (140/975,  14.4%  in 
patients  without  gastrointestinal  history,  24/101,  23.8%  in  patients  with  gastrointestinal  history, 
164/1076, 15.2% overall). 
The  risk  of  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  in  telmisartan  treated  patients  was  clearly  higher  in  the 
presence of gastrointestinal history than in patients without gastrointestinal history (16.2 % vs. 8.9 %). 
The  risk  in  the  telmisartan  group  compared  to  placebo  was  much  higher  in  patients  with 
gastrointestinal history (16.2% vs. 7.4%) than in patients without it (8.9% vs. 7.4%). These findings 
were reported in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Melena occurred in seven patients (0.2%), duodenal ulcer in three (0.1%), rectal haemorrhage in two 
(0.1%),  and  gastric  ulcer,  haemorrhagic  gastric  ulcer  and  peptic  ulcer  in  one  patient  each  (<0.05%). 
One of these events was a serious adverse event. One melena and one rectal bleeding were judged by 
the investigator to be related to study drug. All other gastrointestinal bleedings were considered not to 
be drug related. Gastrointestinal bleeding or ulcer was reported in one placebo-treated patient. 
Considering the low incidence of gastrointestinal bleeding, the relative risk of telmisartan compared to 
controls could not be reliably estimated. 
Angioedema 
There was one report of angioedema among 3,445 telmisartan-treated patients (0.02%). considered to 
be drug-related. 
16/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment  
Benefit  
Efficacy and safety were assessed in 14 randomised controlled trials (13 double blind, 1 open label) in 
patients predominantly with mild to moderate hypertension. The controlled studies include 6 placebo-
controlled trials with treatment duration up to 12 weeks. Five of these trials also had control groups in 
which  patients  were  treated  with  active  antihypertensive  drugs.  In  the  4  other  trials,  the  efficacy  of 
telmisartan  was  compared  against  active  treatment  over  a  long-term  period  (3-12  months).  One  of 
these  long-term  studies  includes  only  elderly  people.  A  further  4  studies  investigated  special 
populations (severe hypertensives) or special (renal) effects Four additional uncontrolled trials cover 
study periods of at least one year. 
As many as 2647 patients were exposed to telmisartan doses of 20 mg to 160 mg in controlled trials; 
1568  patients  were  enrolled  in  the  4  long-term  uncontrolled  studies,  1340  of  whom  had  previously 
participated in controlled studies. 
The  antihypertensive  effect  of  telmisartan  was  compared  with  other  BP-lowering  drugs,  including 
atenolol,  lisinopril,  enalapril,  but  not  with  other  AGII  receptor  antagonists,  such  as  losartan. 
Telmisartan lowered mean arterial pressure to much the same extent as all the other drugs.  
Telmisartan was given at doses of 20, 40, 80, 120 and 160 mg once daily. There was no relevant dose-
related difference in decrease in diastolic blood pressure response or increase in related response rates 
among  the  telmisartan  groups.  Neither  a  minimal  effective  dose  nor  a  plateau  in  the  dose-response 
curve was identified. 
Telmisartan  was  effective  in  both  male  and  female  patients,  younger  and  elderly,  in  all  ethnic 
subgroups, and in the long-term treatment of hypertension without evidence of tolerance. 
The  usually  effective  dose  is  40  mg  daily  since  40%  to  50%  of  the  included  hypertensive  patients 
responded to this dose. Despite the lack of apparent advantage in terms of safety and tolerability, some 
patients may already benefit at a daily dose of 20 mg. Doses greater than 80 mg do not contribute to 
any further antihypertensive effect.  
Risk  
Telmisartan has been administered to 3,445 patients and has been found to be safe and well tolerated. 
A  total  of  1,400  patients  received  telmisartan  for  6  months  or  more,  and  a  total  of  415  patients 
received telmisartan one year or more. 
Major  adverse  events  did  not  occur  and  side  effects  were  comparable  to  those  reported  with  ACE 
inhibitors, but the incidence of coughing was halved in the telmisartan patients. 
In  placebo-controlled  clinical  trials,  the  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  with  telmisartan  was 
similar  to  placebo.  Only  the  incidence  of  back  pain,  pharyngitis,  diarrhoea  and  upper  respiratory 
infection reportedly was at least 1% higher in telmisartan-treated patients compared to placebo group. 
Compared to enalapril, incidence of dry cough was halved in telmisartan treated patients.There was no 
relationship  between  dose  and  incidence  or  severity  of  adverse  events.  There  were  no  individual 
events,  or  patterns  of  events,  for  which  elderly  patients  treated  with  telmisartan  experienced  a 
markedly higher incidence. The incidence as well the type of serious adverse events with telmisartan 
was  comparable  with  other  already  licensed  AGII  antagonists.  No  additional  risks  are  seen  on  the 
basis of the submitted data. 
Gastro-intestinal bleeding and ulcers occurred rarely, but more frequently than in the placebo group.. 
The incidence of gastro-intestinal adverse events in the subgroup of patients with either a history or an 
active baseline condition of gastric or duodenal ulcer or stomach dysfunction was higher than in the 
population  of  all  telmisartan-treated  patients  (21.9%  vs.  15.1%).  Similar  results  were  found  for 
patients treated with active comparator drugs (23.8% vs. 15.2%) 
In  view  of  the  gastro-intestinal  toxicity  seen  in  preclinical  studies,  and  the  clinical  data  regarding 
gastrointestinal adverse events, the company presented, during the oral explanation in July 1998, the 
17/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
post-marketing program plan to further investigate the potential gastrointestinal risk and the feasibility 
of comparative trials with other antihypertensive agents of the same class. The CPMP agreed on the 
company’s  proposal  to  perform  an  observational  study  with  a  target  population  of  10,000  denovo 
patients  on  telmisartan  to  provide  further  evidence  regarding  general  safety  and  in  particular 
gastrointestinal  adverse  events.  This  study  will  be  handled  as  a  follow-up  measure  to  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
During  the  oral  explanation  the  company  also  presented  data,  which  showed  that  although  the 
distribution  of baseline risks and  exposure  time  were not in favour of telmisartan, combination with 
ASA  or  other  NSAID’s  does  not  carry  an  incremental  risk  in  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  as 
compared  to  active  comparators.  Furthermore,  efficacy  of  telmisartan  was  shown  to  be  maintained 
during concomitant use with ASA or other NSAID’s. 
Conclusion 
Micardis is a benzimidazole derivative antagonist of sub-type 1 angiotensin II receptors and has been 
shown in animals and man to exert a hypotensive effect. 
The  quality  of  Micardis  tablets,  as  demonstrated  in  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  documentation,  is 
considered acceptable. 
Micardis  has  demonstrated  efficacy  in  patients  with  essential  hypertension.  The  concerns  rose  with 
regard to the possible gender effect, concomitant use with ASA or NSAID’s and gastrointestinal side 
effects,  have  been  adequately  addressed.  Therefore,  the  CPMP  considered  the  benefit  to  risk 
assessment positive and recommended the granting of a Marketing Authorisation for all strengths and 
presentations of this medicinal product. 
6. 
Post-Authorisation  
Interactions 
Reversible  increases  in  serum  lithium  concentrations  and  toxicity  have  been  very  rarely  reported 
during  concomitant  administration  of  lithium  with  telmisartan.  Co-administration  of  lithium  and 
telmisartan  should  be  done  with  caution.  If  this  combination  proves  essential,  serum  lithium  level 
monitoring is recommended during concomitant use. 
Based  on  the  experience  with  the  use  of  other  medicinal  products  that  blunt  the  renin-angiotensin 
system,  concomitant  use  of  telmisartan  with  products  that  may  increase  potassium  levels  or  induce 
hyperkalaemia  (e.g.  ACE  inhibitors,  potassium-sparing  diuretics,  potassium  supplements,  salt 
substitutes  containing  potassium,  cyclosporin  or  other  medicinal  products  such  as  heparin  sodium) 
may  lead  to  increases  in  serum  potassium.  Monitoring  of  potassium  plasma  levels  is  advised  when 
such medicinal products are co-prescribed.  
Adverse drug reactions 
Since  the  introduction  of  telmisartan  in  the  market,  cases  of  erythema,  pruritus,  faintness,  insomnia, 
depression,  stomach  upset,  vomiting,  hypotension,  bradycardia,  tachycardia,  dyspnoea,  eosinophilia, 
thrombocytopenia, weakness and lack of efficacy have been reported rarely. 
As  with  other  angiotensin  II  antagonists,  isolated  cases  of  angioedema,  pruritus,  rash  and  urticaria 
have been reported. 
18/18 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
