EMA/561946/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000209 
EPAR summary for the public 
Micardis 
Telmisartan 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Micardis. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Micardis. 
What is Micardis? 
Micardis is a medicine that contains the active substance telmisartan. It is available as tablets (20, 40 
and 80 mg). 
What is Micardis used for? 
Micardis is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults. ‘Essential’ means that 
the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
Micardis is also used to prevent cardiovascular problems (problems with the heart and blood vessels) 
such as heart attacks or strokes. It is used in patients who have had problems due to blood clots in the 
past (such as heart disease, a stroke or artery disease) or who have type 2 diabetes that has damaged 
an organ (such as the eyes, heart or kidneys). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Micardis used? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, the usual recommended dose of Micardis is 40 mg once a 
day, but some patients may benefit from using 20 mg once a day. If the target blood pressure is not 
reached, the dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for hypertension can be added, 
such as hydrochlorothiazide. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, the recommended dose is 80 mg once a day. The 
doctor should monitor the patient’s blood pressure closely when starting Micardis, and may decide to 
adjust the patient’s blood pressure-lowering medication. Patients with severely reduced kidney function 
should receive a lower starting dose of 20 mg once a day. Patients with mild or moderately reduced 
liver function should not receive doses higher than 40 mg a day. 
How does Micardis work? 
The active substance in Micardis, telmisartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means 
that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful 
vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which 
angiotensin II normally attaches, telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood 
vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to drop, reducing the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a heart attack or stroke. It also allows the heart to pump blood more easily, 
which can help to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular problems. 
How has Micardis been studied? 
For the treatment of essential hypertension, Micardis has been studied in 2,647 patients who took 
Micardis either alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Various doses of Micardis were 
compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) and with other medicines for hypertension (atenolol, 
lisinopril, enalapril and amlodipine). The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in diastolic 
blood pressure (the blood pressure measured between two heartbeats). 
For the prevention of cardiovascular problems, 80 mg Micardis once a day has been studied in one 
main study involving almost 26,000 patients aged 55 years or over who had heart or artery disease, 
had had a stroke, or had diabetes and were at high risk of cardiovascular problems. Micardis was 
compared with ramipril (another medicine to prevent cardiovascular problems), and with the 
combination of both medicines. The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in the number of 
patients who died or were admitted to hospital, or who had a heart attack or stroke. The patients were 
followed up for an average of four and a half years. 
What benefit has Micardis shown during the studies? 
In the treatment of essential hypertension, Micardis was more effective than placebo at reducing 
diastolic blood pressure and had similar effects to the other medicines for hypertension. 
In the prevention of cardiovascular problems, Micardis had a similar effect to ramipril, with around 
17% of patients dying, being admitted to hospital because of cardiovascular problems, or having a 
heart attack or stroke. The combination of the two medicines was no more effective than either 
medicine taken alone and was linked to an increased risk of side effects. 
What is the risk associated with Micardis? 
Side effects with Micardis are not common. However, the following side effects are seen in between 1 
and 10 patients in 1,000: upper respiratory tract infection (colds) including inflammation of the throat 
and sinuses, urinary tract infection (infection of the structures that carry urine) including bladder 
infection, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), hyperkalaemia (high blood potassium levels), 
depression, insomnia (difficulty sleeping), syncope (fainting), vertigo (a spinning sensation), 
bradycardia (slow heart rate), hypotension (low blood pressure), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), 
cough, abdominal pain (stomach ache), diarrhoea, dyspepsia (heartburn), flatulence (gas), vomiting, 
hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating), pruritus (itching), rash, myalgia (muscle pain), back pain, muscle 
spasms, renal impairment (reduced kidney function) including sudden kidney failure, chest pain, 
asthenia (weakness) and increased blood levels of creatinine (a marker of muscle breakdown). 
Hypotension may be more common in patients receiving Micardis to prevent cardiovascular problems. 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Micardis, see the package leaflet. 
Micardis must not be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the 
first three months of pregnancy is not recommended. Micardis must not be used in people who have 
severe liver problems or bile problems. In patients with type 2 diabetes or in patients with moderate or 
severe kidney impairment, Micardis must also not be used in combination with aliskiren-containing 
medicines (also used to treat essential hypertension). For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why has Micardis been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Micardis’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Micardis? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Micardis is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Micardis, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Micardis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Micardis on 16 December 1998.  
The full EPAR for Micardis is available on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Micardis, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
