13 December 2018 
EMA/219798/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Miglustat Dipharma  
International non-proprietary name: miglustat 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004904/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Miglustat Dipharma 
Applicant: 
Dipharma B.V. 
Prins Bernhardplein 200 
1097 JB Amsterdam 
NETHERLANDS 
Active substance: 
miglustat 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
miglustat 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
Other alimentary tract and metabolism 
(ATC Code): 
products, various alimentary tract and 
metabolism products 
(A16AX06) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Miglustat Dipharma is indicated for the oral 
treatment of adult patients with mild to 
moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. 
Miglustat Dipharma may be used only in the 
treatment of patients for whom enzyme 
replacement therapy is unsuitable. 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Capsule, hard 
Strength(s): 
100 mg 
Route(s) of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
Blister (PCTFE/PVC/Alu) 
Package size(s): 
84 capsules 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 2/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ............................................... 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................. 8 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 15 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics.......................................................................................... 20 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 20 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 20 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 21 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 21 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 21 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 22 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 22 
3. Benefit-risk balance ............................................................................... 22 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 22 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 3/23 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
ANOVA 
ASM 
ASMF 
AUC 
AUC0-t 
AUC0-∞ 
BE 
BMI 
BU 
CL/F 
Cmax 
CoA 
CRO 
CV% 
CU 
DMF 
EC 
ECG 
EEA 
EMA 
ERA 
GBA 
GCP 
GD 
GLP 
GMP 
HPLC 
CHMP 
ICH 
IRB 
Kel 
LC/MS/MS   
LOD 
LogKow 
LoQ 
LOQ 
MAA 
PBT 
PEC 
Analysis of Variance  
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File 
Area Under the plasma concentration Curve 
Area Under the plasma concentration Curve, from 0 to the last measurable  
concentration 
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time (0) to infinity. 
Bioequivalence  
Body Mass Index 
Blend Uniformity 
apparent oral clearance 
maximum concentration 
Certificate of Analysis 
Clinical Research Organisation 
Coefficient of Variation 
Content Uniformity 
Drug Master File 
European Commission 
Electrocardiograph 
European Economic Area 
European Medicines Agency 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
glucosidase, beta, acid 
Good Clinical Practice 
Gaucher Disease 
Good Laboratory Practise 
Good Manufacturing Practise 
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Institutional review board 
apparent first-order elimination or terminal rate constant calculated from a 
semi-log plot of the plasma concentration versus time curve. 
combination of liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry 
Limit of Detection 
logarithm of Kow,  the octanol/water partition coefficient 
List of Questions 
Limit of Quantitation 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic 
Predicted Environmental Concentration  
Ph.Eur.  
European Pharmacopoeia 
PK 
ppm 
Pharmacokinetics 
parts per million 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 4/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QP 
RT 
(R)SD  
SEM 
SmPC 
t 1/2 
TFA 
Tmax 
XRPD 
Qualified Person 
Retention Time 
(Relative) Standard Deviation 
Standard Error of the Mean 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
the elimination or terminal half-life  
trifluoracetic acid 
Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration 
X-ray powder diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 5/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Dipharma B.V. submitted on 8 March 2018 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Miglustat Dipharma, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) 
of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 14 September 2017. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a marketing 
authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 
8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Miglustat Dipharma is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. 
Miglustat Dipharma may be used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is 
unsuitable (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Zavesca instead of non-clinical and clinical data 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less than 
6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zavesca 100 mg hard capsules  
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen Cilag International NV 
•  Date of authorisation: 20-11-2002 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/02/238/001 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European reference 
medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zavesca 100 mg hard capsules 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen Cilag International NV 
•  Date of authorisation: 20-11-2002 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Janssen Cilag International NV 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 6/23 
 
  
  
 
 
−  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/02/238/001 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zavesca 100 mg hard capsules 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen Cilag International NV 
• 
Date of authorisation: 20-11-2002  
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
-  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/02/238/001 
• 
Bioavailability study number(s): DPH02-2017-001BE 
During the procedure, the Transfer of Marketing Authorisation from Actelion Registration Ltd to Janssen Cilag 
International NV was adopted by the European Commission on 28 September 2018. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not receive Scientific Advice from the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Frantisek Drafi 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
8 March 2018 
29 March 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
18 June 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
2 July 2018 
members on 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 7/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
26 July 2018 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
14 September 2018 
Questions on: 
The following GCP inspections were requested by the CHMP and their 
outcome taken into consideration as part of the Quality/Safety/Efficacy 
assessment of the product:  
−  A GCP inspection at Clinical Facility and Analytical Laboratory BE/BA 
site. The outcome of the inspection carried out was issued on 
15 August 2018 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
22 October 2018 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
31 October 2018 
during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
15 November 2018 
applicant on: 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
28 November 2018 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Updated Joint Assessment Report on the 
6 December 2018 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
13 December 2018 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Miglustat Dipharma on  
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Miglustat Dipharma with 
13 December 2018 
VPRIV and Cerdelga on (Appendix 1) 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This centralised marketing authorisation application concerns Miglustat Dipharma 100 mg hard capsules, a 
generic version of miglustat. The originator of miglustat, Zavesca 100 mg hard capsules, initially marketed by 
Actelion Registration Ltd, UK, was first approved in Europe in 2002 (and in the USA in 2003) for use as an oral 
substrate reduction therapy in adult patients with mild-to-moderate type 1 Gaucher disease for whom enzyme 
therapy is unsuitable. Only one of the two clinical indications approved for the European Union reference 
product, Zavesca 100mg hard capsules is requested for Miglustat Dipharma 100mg capsules.  
The applicant submitted an abridged application relying on the clinical data of the reference product and a 
bioequivalence study to establish essential similarity between the test product and the EU reference product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 8/23 
 
  
  
 
 
The Miglustat Dipharma applicant applied only for the indication of Zavesca in oral treatment of adult patients 
with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. Zavesca is also indicated for the treatment of progressive 
neurological manifestations in adult patients and paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease but this 
is still subject to market protection/usage patent. 
Gaucher disease (GD) is one of the lysosomal storage diseases. GD is an autosomal recessive disorder caused 
by mutations in the GBA (glucosidase, beta, acid) gene (on chromosome 1q21) which results in a deficiency of 
the lysosomal enzyme beta-glucocerebrosidase. Beta-glucocerebrosidase is an enzyme that helps break down a 
large molecule called glucocerebroside (=glucosylceramide) into a sugar (glucose) and a simpler fat molecule 
(ceramide). This enzymatic deficiency results in an accumulation of glucocerebroside, primarily in 
macrophages, in the liver, spleen, bone marrow, skeleton, lungs, kidneys, and in the more seldom clinical 
subtypes (GD II and GD III) accumulation occurs also in the brain. 
Enzyme therapy with recombinant human β-glucocerebrosidase (imiglucerase - Cerezyme), centrally 
authorised in Europe in 1997, reduces organomegaly and improves haematologic and biochemical parameters 
in type 1 Gaucher disease. However, enzyme therapy requires regular intravenous infusions, which are a 
lifestyle burden for some patients. 
Miglustat (N-butyldeoxynojirimycin) is a synthetic derivative of a family of polyhydroxylated alkaloids or 
iminosugars extracted from plants and microorganisms. It reduces the biosynthesis of glucosylceramide from 
ceramide through the inhibition of the enzyme glucosylceramide synthase. The inhibitory action on 
glucosylceramide synthase forms the rationale for substrate reduction therapy in Gaucher disease (GD). 
In clinical studies of the originator, miglustat reduced liver organ volume and spleen volume, while platelet 
count and haemoglobin slightly increased. Furthermore, miglustat treatment resulted in a reduction of plasma 
chitotriosidase, a hydrolytic enzyme whose plasma levels are elevated in patients with GD. 
The proposed indication is: 
“Miglustat Dipharma is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. Miglustat Dipharma may be used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement 
therapy is unsuitable (see sections 4.4 and 5.1)”. 
The proposed posology is 100 mg three times a day. 
Miglustat Dipharma 100 mg hard capsules are administered orally. Drug product is packed into box of 4 blisters, 
each containing 21 capsules, which provides a total of 84 capsules. Pack sizes are consistent with the dosage 
regimen and duration of use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 9/23 
 
  
  
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as hard capsules, containing 100 mg of miglustat as the active substance.  
Other ingredient of the capsule content is magnesium stearate. The capsule shell is composed of gelatin and 
titanium dioxide (E171). The printing ink comprises black iron oxide (E172), potassium hydroxide, shellac, 
propylene glycol (E1520). 
The product is available in poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene (PCTFE) /polyvinyl chloride (PVC)/aluminium blister 
as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of miglustat is (2R, 3R, 4R, 5S)-1-butyl-2-(hydroxymethyl) piperidine-3,4,5-triol 
corresponding to the molecular formula C10H21NO4. It has a relative molecular mass 219.28 g/mol and has the 
structure shown in Figure 1. 
Figure 1 Structure of miglustat 
The structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis, IR spectroscopy, 
NMR spectroscopy (1H and 13C), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) 
analysis, mass spectrometry and specific optical rotation. Miglustat is sufficiently well characterised and its 
structure is adequately elucidated. Representative figures have been presented.  
Miglustat appears as a white non-hygroscopic crystalline powder with a melting point around 128°C. Miglustat 
is highly soluble in water. Its pKa values were found to be around 6.94 and 13.72; the partition coefficient 
(LogP) -0.6. 
Miglustat has 4 stereocenters which potentially can give rise to 16 different stereoisomers. The synthetic route 
applied allows to obtain a single stereoisomer RRRS confirmed by specific optical rotation. Enantiomeric purity 
is controlled routinely by Optical Rotatory Dispersion (ORD). 
A single polymorphic form has been confirmed by XRPD analysis. No polymorphism was detected. 
Manufacture 
An Active substance Master File (ASMF) procedure was followed. Detailed information on the manufacturing of 
the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory.  
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 10/23 
 
  
  
 
 
The synthesis of miglustat, comprises five steps using two starting materials tetrabenzylglucose (MIG-0) and 
n-butylamine. 
Scheme 1. Synthesis of miglustat 
The manufacturing process has been described in sufficient detail. Risk assessment of the process and process 
validation identified critical steps, which are controlled by appropriate in process controls performed at each 
manufacturing step. The yield of the process has been defined. The choice of the starting material has been 
justified, they are well defined and sufficiently controlled by acceptable specifications. A satisfactory discussion 
of the synthesis of the proposed starting materials, including the used reagents, possible catalysts and solvents 
has been provided together with a discussion about possible impurities and their carry-over into the final active 
substance. The proposed limits and specifications for the three intermediates generated during the 
manufacturing process have been justified and are considered sufficient to guarantee the quality of the final 
active substance.  
Specification 
Miglustat active substance specification includes appropriate tests and limits for appearance (visual), 
identification (FT-IR, HPLC), water content (Karl-Fischer), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), residue on ignition (Ph. 
Eur.), specific optical rotation (polarimetry,in-house), melting point (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), related 
substances (HPLC), trifluoroacetic acid (HPLC), residual solvents (HS-GC), particle size (laser diffraction) and 
palladium content (atomic absorption). 
The specifications, which include relevant physical and chemical parameters to assure the quality of the active 
substance and are in accordance to the corresponding guidelines, are acceptable and adequately justified.  
All potential sources of elemental impurities have been evaluated as per ICH Q3D and the results have been 
presented. It can be concluded that all elemental impurities have been found below the control threshold 
(< 30% of the PDE), therefore they do not need to be tested at release of miglustat active substance. The 
content of palladium is tested in the final active substance as it is intentionally added as a catalyst in the 
synthesis. There were three potential genotoxic impurities identified. Their formation and fate were 
satisfactorily discussed. Results showed no detectable presence of genotoxic impurities in miglustat active 
substance and thus no controls in the final active substance are warranted. Optical rotation test is included in 
active substance specification to confirm the enantiomeric purity. Two HPLC methods are employed for the 
control of related substances, one for ‘impurity 1’ and unknown impurities, and another method for miglustat 
N-oxide. 
The analytical procedures used in the control of the active substance have been satisfactorily described and non 
compendial methods have been validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Information regarding the 
reference standards used in the analytical testing is satisfactory. 
Batch analysis results and certificates of analysis of 6 commercial scale batches of miglustat active substance 
have been presented. The results met the specification criteria and confirm consistency of the manufacturing 
process from batch to batch.  
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 11/23 
 
  
  
 
Stability 
Stability data on four production scale batches of active substance stored in the intended commercial packaging 
for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25 °C / 60 % RH), and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions (40 °C / 75 % RH) was provided according to the ICH guidelines.  
Samples were tested for appearance, identification, assay, related substances, water content, and loss on 
drying. The test methods were the same as for release and are stability indicating. No significant changes to any 
of the measured parameters were observed under long term and accelerated conditions and all remained within 
specification. 
A stress study has been performed under acidic/basic conditions, oxidative conditions, high temperature, 
exposure of the solution and the powder to sunlight, exposure of the solution and the powder to UV light. The 
forced degradation study revealed that miglustat degrades significantly under basic and oxidizing conditions 
(formation of N-oxide derivate up to 44% degradation in 4 hours). The study also showed that the related 
substances methods are stability indicating. 
A photostability study has been performed on a commercial scale batch according to the ICH Q1B guideline. No 
degradation occurred in 48 hours of exposure. 
The stability results justify the proposed retest period which has been set at 48 months in the proposed 
container with no special storage conditions. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as white opaque cap and body, hard gelatin capsule size 4 containing 100 mg 
of miglustat. The capsule body is printed in black with “DPH02” on the cap and “100” on the body. 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development work was to develop a generic medicinal product of Zavesca, 
obtaining an immediate release oral dosage form, which contains 100 mg of miglustat as active substance 
presented in the form of hard capsules and is bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product. 
The quality target product profile (QTPP) of the generic finished product was defined taking into account the 
properties of the active substance and the characterization of the reference medicinal product. The critical 
quality attributes (CQAs) were identified based on their impact on the safety and efficacy of the finished product, 
which are assay, dissolution and stability. 
The formulation and process development was focused to ensure good flowability of the blend and to control 
capsule weight during encapsulation by using suitable lubricant and optimal speed rotation of capsule filling. The 
active substance is freely soluble in water and has good flow properties. Due to its solubility in water and good 
flowability, the particle size has no influence on the dissolution, blend uniformity and uniformity. The optimal 
percentage of lubricant in the formulation has been investigated and 0.5 % of magnesium stearate was 
selected. 
The only excipient in Miglustat Dipharma 100 mg hard capsules is magnesium stearate, used as lubricant. In 
comparison, the reference product Zavesca contains, in addition to magnesium stearate, sodium starch 
glycolate and povidone K30. The compatibility of binary mixture of miglustat with magnesium stearate was 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 12/23 
 
  
  
 
demonstrated in an accelerated study in HDPE bottle at 40°C/75% RH. The results confirmed no influence of 
magnesium stearate on assay, impurity profile and dissolution of miglustat active substance. 
The proposed dissolution method was based on the FDA recommended dissolution method which uses basket 
apparatus at 100 rpm in 1000 mL of 0.1N HCl. Given the simplicity of the formulation and the solubility of the 
active substance this was considered satisfactory. 
Bioequivalence with the reference product was demonstrated by an in vivo study (see section 2.4.2). The 
dissolution profiles of the biobatches of the test and reference products were compared. As expected from the 
active substance characteristics and considering the composition of capsule filling, very rapid dissolution is 
achieved in all tested media (0.1 N HCl, pH 4.5 and pH 6.8) for test and reference products. The results showed 
more than 85% dissolution in 15 minutes, therefore no calculation of similarity factor f2 was required and 
dissolution profiles can be considered similar as per the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **). 
Due to the active substance and formulation characteristics a direct dry blending process was selected. Blending 
step and filling step parameters (running time and rotation speed) have been optimised. A comparison of 
equipment after the transfer of manufacturing process to the proposed commercial manufacturer has been 
provided in dossier with no critical differences. 
The container closure system of the finished product is an opaque poly-chloro-tri-fluoro-ethylene 
(PCTFE) /PVC /aluminium thermo-sealed blister. The material complies with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use 
of the product. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process for the finished product comprises the following main steps: weighing, sieving, 
blending, capsule filling and packaging (primary and secondary). The manufacturing process is considered a 
standard process and has been described satisfactorily.  
Scheme 1 Manufacturing Process Flow chart 
No critical steps were identified in the presented manufacturing process. The in-process controls (IPCs) during 
the manufacturing process have been presented and are adequately justified. There are two intermediates 
isolated during the process, the capsules filling blend and the bulk capsules. The packaging for both is double 
polyethylene (PE) bags in PE drum and holding times for both have been established based on stability studies. 
The manufacturing process has been validated on three commercial batches. Process validation data complies 
with set acceptance criteria. 
In conclusion, it has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is sufficiently robust to provide 
assurance that hard capsules of consistent quality, complying with the designated specification, are produced. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 13/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for appearance 
(visual), identification (HPLC, IR), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), dissolution (Ph. Eur. - HPLC), loss on 
drying (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC) and microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
The shelf life and release specifications limits are identical; the parameters uniformity of dosage units and 
identification are only tested during release. According to the SmPC the maximum daily dose is 300 mg of 
miglustat. The impurities limits were set in line with ICH Q3B (R2) guideline, batch analysis and stability results. 
The potential occurrence of the elemental impurities has been investigated according to the ICH Q3D. Based on 
data collected it has been confirmed that none of elemental impurities should exceed the 30% of PDE. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and validated in accordance with the ICH 
guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used in the routine analysis of finished 
product has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from 4 production scale batches have been presented. All data is within specification. The 
results show that the finished product can be manufactured with consistent quality and meeting its 
specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of six commercial scale batches and one pilot scale batch of the finished product stored under long 
term conditions for up to 36 months (25 °C / 60% RH), and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions 
(40 °C/ 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Three of these batches were manufactured by 
the development site and all the rest at the proposed commercial facility. The stability batches are identical to 
those proposed for marketing and were packaged in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
The following parameters have been investigated: appearance, related substances, assay, dissolution, loss on 
drying and microbiological quality. The methods used were the same as for release testing and are stability 
indicating. All the results were within specifications and no essential changes occurred in organoleptic, physical, 
chemical or microbiological properties of finished product. Stability data exhibit good stability profile. 
A photostability study has not been performed. As the final product is a powder consisting of 99.5% of miglustat 
enclosed in capsule shell and the results of miglustat active substance photostability study confirmed no 
significant degradation, the photostability study for finished product is not deemed necessary. 
The finished product was exposed to forced degradation under acidic, basic, oxidative, high temperature, high 
temperature/high humidity and photolysis conditions. The most significant degradation occurs under basic 
conditions with 5.9 % degradation of one unknown impurity at RT: 11.8. No significant degradation is observed 
under other stress conditions. The results are in line with active substance forced degradation study. 
Based on the provided stability data, the proposed shelf life of 36 months without special storage conditions, as 
stated in the SmPC (sections 6.3 and 6.4) is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients included in the capsule content is from animal or human origin. The unique excipients 
used in Miglustat Dipharma  
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 14/23 
 
  
  
 
The hard gelatin capsules used in the manufacture of the finished product are of animal origin. The TSE 
certificates of suitability (CEP) granted by the EDQM for gelatin used in the production of these hard capsules 
have been provided. Gelatin complies with the current “Note for Guidance on minimizing the risk of transmitting 
animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products” (EMEA/410/01). 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that from a quality perspective 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
None.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to generate 
additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical aspects of the 
SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was 
considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Partial Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. Applicant claims that the introduction of Miglustat 
Dipharma 100 mg hard capsules is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales 
volumes for all miglustat containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. 
Applicant also calculated PEC. In order to finalise the Phase I ERA and to allow for assessment of possible PBT 
properties of miglustat, applicant submitted the post-authorisation commitment that experimentally derived 
logKow would be provided.  
2.3.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of miglustat and justifications that the active 
substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product 
was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 15/23 
 
  
  
non clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
The applicant submitted consumption data showing that the introduction of generic miglustat products did not 
affect overall consumption significantly. Calculated PEC indicates that the medicinal product is unlikely to 
represent a risk for the environment. However, in order to finalise the Phase I ERA and to allow for assessment 
of possible PBT properties of miglustat, applicant agreed to submit experimentally derived logKow as a 
post-authorisation commitment.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
To support the marketing authorisation application the applicant for Miglustat Dipharma 100mg hard capsules 
conducted a bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal 
study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) is of 
particular relevance.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 16/23 
 
  
  
 
 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study No. DPH02-2017-001BE (IPRC 
Study No. MIG-ClOl 7/53). 
Table 1 Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Type 
of 
Stud
y 
Study Identifier 
Locatio
n of 
Study 
Report 
Objective(s) 
of the Study 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Test 
Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen;  
Route of 
Administratio
n 
Number 
of 
Subjects
, sex 
Healthy 
Subjects 
or 
Diagnose
d Patients 
Duration 
of 
Treatmen
t 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Report 
DPH02-2017-001B
E 
BE 
5.3.1.2 
investigate the 
bioequivalenc
e of Miglustat 
Dipharma 100 
mg capsules 
(100 mg 
miglustat 
capsules) (Test 
Product) and 
Zavesca ® 100 
mg (100 mg 
miglustat hard 
capsules) 
(Reference 
Product) after 
a single oral 
dose 
administration 
of 100 mg to 
healthy adults 
under fasting 
conditions. 
cross-over, 
open label, 
single dose, 
comparative 
randomized 
bioequivalenc
e study. 
Miglustat 
Dipharma 100 
mg capsules 
(TEST) 
100 mg capsule 
Oral 
Fasting 
conditions. 
Zavesca® 100 
mg 
(REFERENCE) 
100 mg capsule 
Oral 
Fasting 
conditions. 
30 
healthy 
volunteers 
Single 
dose 
Complet
e Study 
Report 
available 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
The study is designed as comparative, randomized, two treatment, two period, two-way crossover open label 
bioequivalence study on healthy volunteers with single dose administration under fasting conditions. In each 
study period, subjects received a single oral dose of 100 mg of miglustat capsule (test (treatment A) or 
reference (treatment B)) with 240 ml of water after an overnight fast. Wash-out period was 7 days. Blood 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 17/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
samples were collected before dose (0.0) and at 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 4.50, 
5.00, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 12.00, 16.00, 24.00 and 36.00 post-dose. Miglustat in human plasma was analysed by 
LC/MS/MS. 
Test and reference products  
Table 2 Characteristics of test and reference products 
Product characteristics 
Test product 
Reference Product 
Name 
Strength 
Dosage form 
Miglustat Dipharma 
100 mg 
Hard capsules 
Measured content(s) (% of label 
claim) 
101.6 % 
Expiry date (re-test date) 
Re-test 04/2018 
Location of Certificate of Analysis 
Module 5.3.1.2.  
Appendix 16.1.13 
Member State where the reference 
product is purchased from: 
This product was used in the 
following trials: 
Zavesca® 
100 mg 
Hard capsules 
98.9 % 
Expiry Date: 02/20 
Module 5.3.1.2.  
Appendix 16.1.13 
Germany 
DPH02-2017-001BE 
DPH02-2017-001BE 
Applicant also submitted comparison of dissolution profiles of biobatch with three full scale production batches 
to demonstrate the complete similarity of the biobatch (manufactured at pilot scale), used for the in vitro and in 
vivo bioequivalence studies, with the batches produced during the process validation, at commercial scale. The 
dissolved amount of miglustat has been more than 85 % in less than 15 minutes at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 for all 
of the four batches.  
Batch size of test product is not in line with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 rev. 1) that states: “In case of a production batch smaller than 100 000 units, a full 
production batch will be required”. However, applicant demonstrated comparable dissolution between biobatch 
and three full scale production batches at three pHs 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8. Based on the identical dissolution profiles 
between the biobatch and three commercial batches, and considering relatively simple manufacturing process 
of the drug product, it is considered that the used biobatch is representative of the product to be marketed.    
Population(s) studied 
Thirty-eight  male  subjects  were  screened  to  evaluate  fulfilment  of  selection  criteria  described  in  the  study 
protocol.  
The inclusion criteria were: healthy subjects, aged 18-50 years, BMI within 18.5-30 kg/m2, body weight ≥ 50 
kg, healthy by normal physical examination and medical history, normal 12-lead ECG, blood pressure and heart 
rate, oral body temperature between 35.0 and 37.2 °C, no known allergy to the investigated product, capable 
of giving written informed consent prior to receiving any study medication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 18/23 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Analytical methods 
The  analytical  method  for  the  determination  of  miglustat  in  human  plasma  (Li-Heparin)  was  validated.  The 
validation  and  analytical  reports  were  submitted.  Stability  of  analyte  in  the  plasma  samples  has  been 
demonstrated. None of the measured sample concentrations was above calibrated upper limit of quantification. 
Analysis was performed in the blinded manner. Evaluation of metabolite back-conversion is not regarded as 
necessary as incurred sample re-analysis, stability results and purity of standards were acceptable. Moreover, 
only 5 % of miglustat is metabolised to glucuronides. Submitted method in general meets the criteria set by the 
Guideline on bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009). 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters were estimated using a non-compartmental approach: 
Primary:  
Cmax: maximum measured plasma concentration over the time span specified 
AUC0-t:  The  area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve,  from  time  (0)  to  the  last  measurable 
concentration (t), as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
Secondary: 
AUC0-∞: The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time (0) to infinity. 
Tmax: Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration. 
Kel: apparent first-order elimination or terminal rate constant calculated from a semi-log plot of the plasma 
concentration versus time curve. 
t 1/2: the elimination or terminal half-life is calculated as 0.693/Kel. 
Statistical methods 
The  statistical  evaluation  of  bioequivalence  included  following:  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  in  all  derived 
pharmacokinetic  parameters,  calculation  of  formulations  ratios  (point  estimates)  and  parametric  90  % 
confidence interval for ln-transformed AUC0-t and Cmax parameters. 
ANOVA:  5  %  significance  level  for  logarithmically  transformed  (with  the  90  %  confidence  intervals)  and 
untransformed data of Cmax and  AUC0-t. The influence of sequence, subject (sequence), product and period 
effect was tested. 
Descriptive statistics:  all pharmacokinetic parameters: arithmetic mean, SD,  CV %, SEM, median, min  and 
max. 
90 % Confidence intervals: logarithmically transformed Test/Reference ratios had to be within 80.00-125.00 % 
for Cmax and AUC0-t. 
Sample  size  calculation  is  based  on  the  power  of  Schuirmann's  two  one-sided  tests  procedure  for  interval 
hypotheses using the ± 20 rule for the assessment of average bioequivalence. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 19/23 
 
  
  
Results 
The 90% Cis of the GMRs of AUC0-t and Cmax of the test to reference products were well within the 80-125.00% 
range as predefined and in line with the respective EMA guidelines, as described in the Table below: 
There were no pre-dose concentrations of miglustat in period II. Cmax was not observed in any case in the first 
time point after dosing. Extrapolated AUC was less than 20 %. 
Safety data 
Both of the products were well tolerated. None of the subjects dropped out from the study due to an adverse 
event.  
Two subjects reported adverse events in the period II - subject 01 (abdominal pain after test product) and 
subject 26 (abdominal pain after reference product). The clinical results of the screened laboratory 
examinations (biochemistry, haematology and urine analysis) were, occasionally, outside their respective 
normal ranges but not to an extent to be considered clinically significant by the study physician and were 
approved by the IRB. 
Conclusions 
A request for GCP inspection has been adopted for the clinical study DPH02-2017-001BE. The inspection 
concluded that the clinical and bioanalytical part of the inspected trial can be considered all in all as conducted 
in compliance with GCP and internationally accepted ethical standards.  
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Miglustat Dipharma is considered bioequivalent with Zavesca. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The clinical study DPH02-2017-001BE has been inspected from 24 to 28 June 2018 on behalf of the EMA. The 
Applicant has received the Integrated Inspection Report on August 20th, 2018. Based on the inspection, the 
inspected trial can be considered all in all as conducted in compliance with GCP and the data generated by the 
clinical site and the bioanalytical site as acceptable.   
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 20/23 
 
  
  
 
The submitted bioequivalence study shows the bioequivalence between Miglustat Dipharma and reference 
product Zavesca. The safety data did not reveal any new concerns. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the submitted bioequivalence study, Miglustat 100 mg capsules from Dipharma can be considered 
bioequivalent with the reference product Zavesca 100 mg hard capsules, Actelion. Approval of Miglustat 
Dipharma can be supported from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Peripheral Neuropathy 
Important potential risks 
Adverse effect on spermatogenesis parameters and reducing fertility. 
Increased  incidence  of  large  intestinal  inflammation,  adenoma,  and 
adenocarcinoma  in  treated  mice,  the  relevance  of  which  to  humans, 
although unlikely, cannot be completely excluded at the present time 
Reproductive toxicity including dystocia 
Missing information 
Use in patients with renal impairment 
Use  in  patients  with  significant  gastrointestinal  disease,  including 
inflammatory bowel disease 
Use in geriatric patients (>70 years) 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable, there are no activities in the pharmacovigilance plan.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Not applicable, there are no additional risk minimisation measures and routine risk minimisation measures are 
aligned with the originator.  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.0. is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 21/23 
 
  
  
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of miglustat hard capsule. The reference product [Zavesca] is 
indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. Zavesca may be 
used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is unsuitable (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). Zavesca is also indicated for the treatment of progressive neurological manifestations in adult patients and 
paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease (see sections 4.4, and 5.1). The current application for 
Miglustat Dipharma concerns only the indication for Gaucher disease. No nonclinical studies have been provided 
for this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance 
was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data 
on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the 
applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with an open-label, single-dose, randomized, two-period, 
two-treatment, two-sequence, cross-over design. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, 
sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Miglustat Dipharma met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared 
with Zavesca. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and 
Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus decision 
that the benefit-risk balance of Miglustat Dipharma is favourable in the following indication: 
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 22/23 
 
  
  
“Miglustat Dipharma is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. 
Miglustat Dipharma may be used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is 
unsuitable (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product Characteristics, 
section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/219798/2019 
Page 23/23 
 
  
  
