SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Amgen  Europe  B.V  submitted  a  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  through  the  Centralised 
Procedure,  for  the  medicinal  product  Mimpara,  containing  cinacalcet  hydrochloride,  intended  for 
treatment of, 
•  Secondary  hyperparathyroidism  in  patients  with  end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance 
dialysis  therapy.  Mimpara  may  be  used  as  part  of  a  therapeutic  regimen  including  phosphate 
binders and/or Vitamin D sterols, as appropriate. 
•  Reduction of hypercalcaemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. 
This  was  a  complete  and  independent  marketing  authorisation  application,  as  stated  in  Art.  8  (3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. The provided data cover all aspects of the clinical characterization 
of safety and efficacy of cinacalcet. The applicant has submitted the results of non-clinical and clinical 
studies carried out for the application. 
Secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease. 
The  prevalence  of  patients  in  the  EU  with  chronic  kidney  disease  (CKD)  that are on dialysis ranges 
from approximately 500 per million population to over 1000 per million. Secondary hyperparathyroidism 
(HPT) is a common and serious disease that develops early in CKD (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] < 
60  mL/min)  before  the  initiation of dialysis and progresses as patients reach  end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD). 
  Multiple  factors  are  involved  in  the  pathogenesis  of  secondary  HPT,  including 
hypocalcaemia,  phosphate  retention,  reduced  synthesis  of  1,25-dihydroxy  vitamin  D,  and  skeletal 
resistance to the calcaemic action of parathyroid hormone (PTH).   
Approximately 40% of dialysis patients have elevated PTH levels (> 300 pg/mL), and approximately 
10%  of  patients  have  PTH  levels  >  800  pg/mL  (a  level  at  which  parathyroidectomy  is  frequently 
recommended).    The  primary  clinical  consequence  of  secondary  HPT  is  the  development  of  renal 
osteodystrophy.    The  increase  in  serum  PTH  stimulates  osteoclastic  activity  resulting  in  bone 
resorption, primarily of the cortical bone.  As the disease progresses, fibrosis of the marrow space may 
develop.    Other  symptoms  include  muscle  weakness,  fatigue,  lethargy,  pruritus,  and  gastrointestinal 
complaints.  Secondary HPT may also be accompanied by bone and joint pain, vascular calcification, 
peri-articular  calcium  deposits,  impaired  cardiac  function,  proximal  myopathy,  spontaneous  tendon 
rupture, pathological bone fracture, altered lipid metabolism, and in rare instances, skeletal deformities 
and calciphylaxis.  
Secondary  HPT  is  also  complicated  by  an  increase  in  calcium  x  phosphorus  (Ca  x  P),  which  is 
elevated (> 55 [mg/dL]2) in 50% of dialysis patients.  The elevated levels have been associated with an 
increased risk of cardiac, visceral, and vascular calcification and cardiovascular mortality.   
Current  pharmacological  therapy  mainly  consists  of  phosphate  binders  and  vitamin  D.    Phosphate 
binders are used to reduce serum phosphorus levels while vitamin D is administered to control PTH. 
The  most  commonly  prescribed  binders  are  calcium-based  (calcium  carbonate and calcium acetate), 
which  are  limited  by  the  development  of  hypercalcaemia  in  a  considerable  portion  of  the  patients. 
Another  type  of  phosphate  binder  is  sevelamer,  which  is  a  non-calcium  containing  polymer. 
Compliance  with  phosphate  binders  is  often  poor  because  of  the  need  to  consume  multiple 
tablets/capsules with each meal, and constipation, which is a chronic problem in this patient population.  
The second class of drugs currently available for the treatment of secondary HPT includes vitamin D 
sterols. While these agents are effective in reducing PTH levels, they are limited by the development 
of hypercalcaemia and hyperphosphatemia due to enhanced gastrointestinal absorption. These agents 
are contraindicated in patients with hypercalcaemia.   
1/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cinacalcet  is  a  first-in-class calcimimetic that modulates the activity of the calcium-sensing receptor, 
the primary regulator of PTH secretion.  
Parathyroid carcinoma 
Parathyroid  carcinoma  is  extremely  rare  and  accounts  for  0.5%  of  all  primary  HPT  cases,  with an 
estimated  prevalence  of  2  /1,000000.  Most  patients  with  parathyroid  carcinoma  have  markedly 
elevated  serum  calcium  concentrations  (>  14  mg/dL)  and  complications  of  hypercalcaemia.    Up  to 
80% of patients have renal involvement (nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis and renal insufficiency); bone 
pain, fractures, and osteopenia occur in up to 70% of patients. 
For  these  patients,  complete  surgical  en  bloc  resection  of  the  neoplasm  is  the  preferred  treatment.   
Local  recurrence  and/or  metastases  are  common,  and  chemotherapy  and  radiotherapy  show  poor 
results.  On average, hypercalcaemia recurs within 3 years after parathyroidectomy and approximately 
50% of patients die within 10 years of the diagnosis. 
The product and the development programme  
Cinacalcet is proposed to exert calcimimetic action through allosteric modulation of the calcium-sensing 
receptor (CaR) on the parathyroid cell surface. The primary role of the CaR is control of parathyroid 
hormone  (PTH)  secretion  in  response  to  extracellular  calcium  concentration.    Cinacalcet  acts  to 
reduce  circulating  PTH  concentration  through  activation  of  the  CaR  by  increasing  its  sensitivity  to 
extracellular calcium. 
The proposed dose range for the treatment of secondary HPT is 30 to 180 mg administered once daily.  
For  hypercalcaemia  in  parathyroid  carcinoma,  the  recommended  starting  dose  is  30  mg  twice  daily.   
Some parathyroid carcinoma patients may require dosing more than twice daily; doses up to 90 mg 4 
times daily have been administered. To make titration possible, cinacalcet is available in strengths of 30, 
60  and  90  mg.  Based  on  this  posology,  a  combined  package  leaflet  including  all  strengths  has  been 
adopted. 
Much of the early preclinical pharmacology work on the use of calcimimetics in disease models was 
performed  using  the  first  generation  calcimimetic  R-568.  Most  of  this  work  has  been  repeated  with 
cinacalcet, a second generation calcimimetic with improved pharmacokinetic properties. Cinacalcet has 
undergone  a  full  non-clinical  development  programme  with  studies  addressing  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and metabolism, and toxicology. 
The cinacalcet clinical programme consists of 47 studies in normal volunteers and patients with primary 
or  secondary  HPT  performed  from  December  1997  to  June  2003.    Fifteen  of  these  studies  were 
conducted  in  subjects  with  secondary  HPT,  and  5  studies  were  performed  in  subjects  with  primary 
HPT.    The  remaining  27  studies  provide  biopharmaceutical  and  clinical  pharmacology  information  as 
well  as  information  on  initial  efficacy  and  tolerability  of  cinacalcet.    Two  thousand,  five  hundred 
twenty-three  (2,523)  subjects  have  participated  in  the  studies  within  the  clinical  program,  including 
1,677 subjects with secondary HPT and 151 subjects with primary HPT. 
The  clinical  development  programme  performed  for  cinacalcet  in  the  treatment  of  secondary  HPT 
associated  with  CKD,  includes  subjects  on  dialysis  (ESRD)  and  not  receiving  dialysis.    The  phase  3 
program  included  4  double -blind, placebo-controlled studies in subjects with secondary HPT receiving 
maintenance dialysis.  Two randomised, placebo-controlled studies evaluated the effects of cinacalcet 
in  CKD  subjects  not  receiving  dialysis.    The  30  to  180  mg  cinacalcet  dose  range  and  dose-titration 
study design were used, regardless of the stage of CKD. 
The clinical development programme for cinacalcet was also considered for the treatment of primary 
HPT.  It  included  subjects  with  parathyroid  carcinoma  and  intractable  primary  HPT  (subjects  with 
unresolved  primary  HPT  after  unsuccessful  parathyroidectomy  or  subjects  contraindicated  for 
parathyroidectomy). Five clinical studies were conducted in subjects with primary HPT (n = 151), and 
2/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluated the efficacy and safety of cinacalcet in the treatment of primary HPT or intractable primary 
HPT/parathyroid carcinoma. 
Non-clinical toxicology and safety pharmacology studies were conducted under GLP regulations where 
applicable. 
The clinical studies were performed in accordance with current GCP guidelines. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
Mimpara contains cinacalcet hydrochloride as the active ingredient at strengths of 30, 60, and 90 mg, 
with the same proportional composition. It is presented as film coated tablets. 
Other  ingredients  include  pregelatinized  starch,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  povidone,  crospovidone, 
colloidal  silicon  dioxide,  magnesium  stearate,  Opadry
  clear,  carnauba  wax  and 
Opacode
II  green,  Opadry
 black. 
The  medicinal  product  is  packaged  in  Aclar  blisters  or  in  HDPE  bottles  with  a  child  resistant 
polypropylene closure. 
Drug Substance  
of 
name 
chemical 
cinacalcet 
hydrochloride 
is  N-[1-(R)-(1-naphthyl)ethyl]-3-[3-
The 
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-aminopropane hydrochloride. The molecule contains a chiral center and the 
active  substance  is  the  R-enantiomer.  Cinacalcet  hydrochloride  is  a  white  to  off-white,  non-
hygroscopic crystalline powder with only one stable crystalline form at ambient temperature. It has a 
very  low  aqueous  solubility,  especially  at  basic  pH  (<0.001  mg/ml)  and  exhibits  high  permeability. 
These properties underline the effect of the particle size and physical form on the dissolution and hence 
the  bioavailability  of  the  active  substance  and  therefore  need  to  be  tightly  controlled  to  ensure  the 
clinical safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. 
• 
Manufacture 
The manufacturing process has been adequately described, while the critical steps have been identified 
and  are  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process  controls.  The  analytical  methods  used  are  sufficiently 
described and validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. 
The  impurities,  including  the  S-enantiomer  of  cinacalcet,  are  well  characterised  and  controlled.  All 
specified impurities have been qualified in pre-clinical studies. The other impurities are controlled at the 
<  0.1%  level  in  the  drug  substance  specification.  The  residual  levels  of  solvents  are  adequately 
controlled according to the ICH guidelines.  
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for the description, identification (IR, HPLC), assay 
(HPLC),  optical  rotation,  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents,  (GC)  and  particle  size  (Laser 
diffraction).  
The absence of tests for the enantiomeric purity of the product has been appropriately justified and is 
supported  by  batch  analysis  data  from seven batches produced using the commercial process. In all 
cases the results complied with the proposed specification. 
3/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:226)
(cid:226)
(cid:226)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability 
Three pilot scale and four commercial scale batches have been placed under stability studies according 
to  the  ICH  guidelines.  Samples  were  stored  at  long-term  conditions  (25(cid:176) C/60%RH)  for  up  to  30 
months  and  accelerated  (40(cid:176) C/75%RH)  conditions  for  6  months.  The  product  was  tested  for 
appearance,  moisture  content,  chiral  purity,  assay  and  impurities  using  stability  indicating  analytical 
methods.  
Forced degradation studies have also been conducted according to ICH Q1B requirements on one pilot 
scale  batch.  The  results  from  all  stability  studies  show  that  cinacalcet  hydrochloride  is  a  very  stable 
compound that is not sensitive to light. 
Drug Product  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  three  strengths  of  the  final  commercial  film-coated  tablets  have  a  proportionally  identical 
composition. During the development of the commercial formulation, critical parameters for the in vivo 
performance  of  the  dosage  form  have  been  identified.  Different  formulations  have  been  used  in  the 
various  clinical  phases.  These  formulations  have  been  well  described  and  bridged  to  each  other  by 
bioequivalence  studies.  The  in  vivo  results  have  been  used  to  develop  a  discriminating  in  vitro 
dissolution  method.  The  excipients  chosen  are  widely  used  in  pharmaceutical  preparations.  Excipient 
compatibility  studies  were  performed  and  demonstrated  that  there  is  no  interaction  with  the  active 
substance. 
Other ingredie nts 
  II  Green  and  Opacode(cid:210)
Opadry(cid:210)
  Black  are  the  only  excipients  that  contain  ingredients  of  animal 
origin.  Opadry(cid:210)
  II  Green  contains  lactose  monohydrate.  However,  the  lactose  has  been  certified  as 
produced from milk obtained from healthy animals in the same condition as those used to collect milk 
for  human  consumption.  Opacode  Black  contains  shellac,  which  is  derived  from  insects  that  are  not 
implicated in TSE/BSE issues. All other ingredients are of non-animal origin and comply with Eur. Ph. 
requirements. 
The  tablets  are  packed  in  Al/Aclar/PVAc/PVC  blisters  or  in  high-density  polyethylene  (HDPE) 
bottles. The suitability and compatibility of the drug product with the primary packaging materials has 
been  demonstrated  in  accelerated  and  long-term  stability  studies.  The  plastic  materials  used  comply 
with Directive 2002/72/EC relating to plastic materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  method  used  is  a  standard  wet  granulation  process.  Further  manufacturing steps 
are  wet  milling,  fluid  bed  drying  and  dry  milling.  After  blending  with  extra-granular excipients and 
lubrication the granules are compressed. Coating with aqueous film coatings, waxing and tablet printing 
are the final operations.  The manufacturing process is satisfactorily described. The critical steps have 
been  identified  and  are  adequately  controlled  by  appropriate  in  process  controls.  The  analytical 
methods  used  have  been  validated  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines.  An  acceptable  process 
validation plan has been presented and the results from full-scale development batches indicate that a 
product of high quality can be consistently produced.  
• 
Product Specification 
4/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The finished product specifications include tests for description, uniformity of content, assay (HPLC), 
identification (IR, HPLC), impurities, dissolution and water content. 
Batch analysis data have been presented for six full-scale batches manufactured using the commercial 
process.  All  these  batches  comply  with  the  release  criteria  that  were  in  effect  at  the  time  of 
manufacture. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
The  stability  study  design  includes  the  bracketing  of  product  strengths,  container  size/tablet  counts 
(HDPE bottles) and container cavity sizes (blisters). This is justified by dose-proportional formulation, 
the  use  of  equivalent  materials  of  packing  construction,  proportional  cavity  size,  and  relationship  of 
moisture vapour permeation to tablet weight. In addition, a photostability study according to ICH Q1B 
was performed 
Product  packaged  in  blisters  and  bottles  have  been  stored  at  25(cid:176) C/60%RH  for  18  months  and  12 
months, respectively, while accelerated storage (40(cid:176) C/75%RH) of product in both package types has 
been conducted over 6 months.  
All available results comply with the product specification. The results support the proposed shelf life 
of 30 months in HDPE bottles and 2 years for tablets in blisters. The 12-month extrapolation for both 
expiry  periods  is  supported  by  the  good  stability  of  the  drug  product  and  the  statistical  analysis  of 
critical stability parameters. No special storage precautions are warranted. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of Mimpara is adequately established. The active substance exhibits low solubility and high 
permeability  making  dissolution  the  rate-limiting  step  for  its  absorption.  However  in  vitro control 
measures  have  been  developed  to  provide  a  comfortable  margin  of  confidence  concerning  the 
satisfactory and reproducible bioavailability of cinacalcet hydrochloride from this product. 
The  excipients  used  are  typical  for  this  type  of  formulation.  The  packaging  materials  are  commonly 
used  and  adequately  described.  The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  wet  granulation  process 
followed  by  compression  and  film  coating.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and  pharmaceutical 
documentation has been submitted for the marketing authorisation. There are no major deviations from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Cinacalcet  acts  on  the  parathyroid  gland  by  increasing  the  CaR  sensitivity  to  extracellular  calcium.   
The  primary  role  of  the  CaR  is  control  of  parathyroid  hormone  (PTH)  secretion  in  response  to 
extracellular calcium concentration.  Cinacalcet acts to reduce circulating PTH concentration through 
activation of the CaR by increasing its sensitivity to extracellular calcium. 
investigated 
Several  pharmacology  models  were 
in 
hyperparathyroidism.  The  core  battery  of  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conduced  as  well  as 
additional studies looking at secondary organs. Pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism were evaluated 
in multiple species. Chronic toxicology studies were conducted in rats and monkeys. Full reproductive 
toxicology  and  genetic  toxicology  batteries  were  conducted.  Two-year  carcinogenicity  studies  were 
conducted  in  rats  and  mice.  Toxicology  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  impurites,  industrial 
the  activity  of  cinacalcet 
to  assess 
5/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toxicology, and other routes (i.v.) of administration. Juvenile toxicity studies were conducted in rats and 
dogs. 
All pivotal toxicology studies were conducted in accordance with international GLP guidelines. Studies 
were designed based on ICH, FDA, CPMP, and OECD guidelines, applicable when the studies were 
conducted 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
 The  distribution  of  CaR  mRNA  was  studied  with  in  situ  hybridisation  (ISH)  and  RT-PCR  in 
postmortem  tissues  obtained  from  adult  cynomolgus  monkey  and  adult  mouse  and  rat  (Study 
R2002084).  CaR  is  highly  expressed  on  parathyroid  cells  and  at  lower  levels  in  the  kidney, 
gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, hypothalamus, thyroid gland and possibly in testes and bone (although 
studies have failed to demonstrate the presence of functional CaR on osteoblasts or osteoclasts). The 
role of CaR in other tissues than the parathyroid and thyroid glands is not well understood. 
• 
In vitro studies  
In vitro studies showed that cinacalcet could activate the CaR in the presence of extracellular calcium 
Using  different  cell  lines with CaR of human, bovine or rat origin, cinacalcet was shown to increase 
cytoplasmic  calcium,  inhibit  PTH  release  in  parathyroid  cells,  and  increase  calcitonin  release  from 
thyroid  cells.  A  similar  dose-response  pattern  was  seen  in  all  models  showing  limited  species 
differences in activity. By titrating both calcium and cinacalcet it could be shown that cinacalcet shifted 
the calcium concentration response curves to the left, as expected for an allosteric enhancer. The S-
enantiomer of cinacalcet was at least 75-fold less potent in these systems. 
The major metabolites of cinacalcet showed no or minimal pharmacological activity in vitro. 
• 
In vivo studies 
Oral administration of cinacalcet (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) resulted in a decrease in serum PTH levels and 
blood calcium levels in normal rats (Study R2002063). The extent and duration of the suppression was 
dose-dependent. 
.  Secondary  hyperparathyroidism  (HPT)  was  induced  by  5/6  nephrectomy  (5/6  Nx).  This  model 
exhibits  increased  PTH  levels,  parathyroid  gland  hyperplasia  and  decreased  blood  calcium  levels. 
Treatment  with  cinacalcet  led  to  a  dose-dependent  decrease  in  PTH  and  blood  calcium  levels. 
Cinacalcet  reduced  parathyroid  gland  weight  and  the  number  of  parathyroid  PCNA  positive  cells, 
demonstrating its potential to prevent development of hyperparathyroidism 
The effect of cinacalcet was evaluated in another rodent model of chronic renal failure, in which renal 
failure  is  induced  in  rats  by  administration  of  the  antibiotic  puromycin  aminonucleoside  (PAN). Oral 
administration of cinacalcet (10 mg/kg) caused a reduction in PTH levels and serum calcium levels in 
PAN-treated animals (Study R2002065).  
In order to determine whether any tissues other than the parathyroid gland are targets for the in vivo 
pharmacologic  action  of  cinacalcet,  studies  were  performed  in  rats  from  which  the  thyroid  and/or 
parathyroid glands had been surgically removed. Parathyroidectomy (PTX) caused a reduction in both 
serum  PTH  and  calcium  levels.  Administration  of  PTH-Fc (a PTH analogue with extended half-life) 
produced a significant increase in blood calcium levels. Oral administration of cinacalcet (30 mg/kg) to 
PTX  rats  receiving  PTH-Fc caused a significant reduction in blood calcium levels and an increase in 
serum calcitonin le vels (Study R2002068). Cinacalcet had no effect on blood calcium levels in rats with 
both  the  thyroid  and  parathyroid  glands  removed  (Study  R2002070).  These  findings  suggest  that  the 
6/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
parathyroid  and  thyroid  glands  are  the  only  targets  mediating  the  blood  calcium  lowering  effect  of 
cinacalcet in rats. 
Secondary HPT has a negative impact on bone metabolism caused by high circulating levels of PTH, 
which  results  in  the  clinical  condition  of  osteitis  fibrosa  cystica,  characterised  by  high  bone  turnover 
rate and a subsequent increase in fracture rates. Studies were performed to address direct and indirect 
effects of cinacalcet on bone metabolism.  
To  evaluate  potential  effects  of  cinacalcet  on  bone  formation,  cinacalcet  was  administered  daily  by 
gastric lavage  for  9  weeks  at  a  dose  of  20  mg/kg  in  sham  and  5/6  Nx  rats  (Studies  R2002125  and 
R2002067).  Cinacalcet  did  not  control  bone  loss  during  the  9  week  study  period  when  compared  to 
vehicle  treated  5/6  Nx  animals.  Cinacalcet  treated  animals  had  a  less  favourable  mean change from 
baseline in bone mass measurements than vehicle treated animals.  
In a recent preliminary study in 5/6 Nx rats using a lower dose of cinacalcet, amelioration of the osteitis 
fibrosa caused by elevated levels of PTH was demonstrated (Study 1493-09). This study demonstrated 
that  5/6  Nx  rats  treated  with  cinacalcet  (15  mg/kg)  had  significantly  decreased  tibial  fibrosis  volume 
and  tibial  cortical  fibrosity,  significantly  increased  femoral  cortical  bone  mineral  density  and  cortical 
bone strength when compared to 5/6 Nx animals treated with vehicle. 
The different outcome in these studies is proposed to be due to a beneficial effect of oscillating rather 
than persistent PTH levels. By lowering the drug dose, the decrease in PTH levels is not sustained but 
intermittent.  Previous  studies  with  the  first  generation  calcimimetic  NPS  R-568  showed  beneficial 
effects with daily bolus dosing but detrimental effects with continuous infusion (Ishii et al. 2000, Bone 
26:175).  The  maintenance  of  PTH  dynamics  may  be  of  great  clinical  importance,  and  this  is  also 
addressed in the clinical assessment.  
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies investigated the effects of cinacalcet in reducing blood calcium 
levels  in  models  of  hypercalcaemia  of  malignancy.  Cinacalcet  reduced  hypercalcaemia  caused  by 
tumours  (Rice  H-500  Leydig  Cell  Tumor,  CB17C26-DCT  Tumor).  This  effect  was  dose-dependent 
and  enantiomer  specific.    The  mechanism  for  the  reduction  in  hypercalcaemia  is  probably  in  part 
mediated through the CaR located on thyroid C-cells to stimulate the release of calcitonin. 
Cinacalcet was shown to reduce hypercalcaemia resulting from administration of Vitamin D3 in rats. In 
this study cinacalcet did not mediate or exacerbate Vitamin D3 induced vascular mineralisation.  
• 
Safety pharmacology and pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  safety  pharmacology  programme  was  comprehensive  and  covered  CNS,  cardiovascular, 
respiratory,  renal,  gastrointestinal,  and  glucose  homeostatic  systems.  In  most  studie s, cinacalcet was 
administered by oral dosing. Pharmacokinetic data were collected only in the cardiovascular study in 
dogs, where the Cmax at the highest dose (50 mg/kg) was only 1.6-fold higher than the human Cmax at 
the  maximum  human  dose.  For  the  other studies in rats and mice, based on pharmacokinetic studies 
showing  substantially  lower  exposure  in  animals  when  compared  to  humans  on  a  dose/bodyweight 
basis  (both  Cmax  and  AUC),  it  can  be  concluded  that  safety  margins  are  in  most  cases  relatively 
modest.  Treatment-related  effects  were  observed  only  in  a  few  cases.  Cinacalcet  at  200  mg/kg 
produced decreased spontaneous motor activity in mice. This effect was attributed to hypocalcaemia 
resulting from the pharmacological effect of the drug. Increased gastric motility was observed in mice 
at a dose of 200 mg/kg. Cinacalcet administered intravenously at 20 mg/kg in guinea pigs produced a 
transient increase in airway resistance and one guinea pig died as the result of bronchoconstriction 6 
minutes following dosing. 
7/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety pharmacology studies performed with cinacalcet are summarised in the following table. 
Study Type and Study Number  GLP 
Species 
Route of 
Administration 
and doses 
Findings 
No neuropharmacological signs or effect upon body 
temperature when observed through a 24 hour period. 
No analgesic effects 
No anticonvulsant effect on pentylenetetrazol- or 
strychnine-induced seizures or death 
At 200 mg/kg, cinacalcet produced decreased 
spontaneous motor activity at the 10-15 and 15-20 
minute intervals of 33 and 48%, respectively 
No inhibition of potentiation of the submaximal 
electroshock at 8 mA. 
No increases in barbiturate-induced sleep time. 
Mouse 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
po 200 mg/kg  Mouse 
Mouse 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
Mouse 
Mouse 
po20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
iv 2, 6, 20 
mg/kg 
GLP 
po 200 mg/kg  Mouse 
Status 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
GLP 
CNS Evaluation 
Neuropharmacological Profile 
970091 
Phenylquinone Writhing 
970092 
Chemically-Induced Seizures 
970095 
Spontaneous Motor Activity 
970100 
Submaximal Electroshock 
970096 
Barbiturate Sleep Time 
970099 
Antipyretic Evaluation 
970097 
Respiratory Evaluation 
Airway Resistance and Dynamic 
Lung Compliance 
970090 
Gastrointestinal Evaluation 
Gastrointestinal Propulsion 
970098 
Antagonism to Acetylcholine, 
Barium Chloride, and Histamine 
on Guinea Pig Ileum 
970094 
Renal Evaluation 
Electrolyte Concentration and 
Volume Diuresis 
970093 
Hypoglycemic Potential 
Hypoglycemic Potential 
970145 
Cardiovascular Evaluation 
Rat 
No antipyretic effect. 
Guinea Pig  At 20 mg/kg a transient significant increase in airway 
resistance. One guinea pig died 6 minutes following 
cinacalcet administration, apparently due to 
bronchoconstriction. No toxicokinetic evaluations. 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
Mouse 
At 200 mg/kg a statistically significant increase in gastric 
motility (34%). 
in vitro 0.1 
µg/ml 
Guinea Pig 
Ileum 
No antagonism to acetylcholine, barium chloride or 
histamine on guinea pig ileum 
GLP 
po 20, 60, 200 
mg/kg 
Rat 
Statistically significant increases in Ca2+ at all doses. No 
changes in urine volume output, pH, Na+, Ka+, Cl- 
Rat 
No hypoglycemic potential 
Non-
GLP 
po 10, 50 
mg/kg once 
daily for five 
days 
8/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular Profile in Dogs 
970127 
GLP 
po 2, 10, 50 
mg/kg 
Dog 
Emesis, reduction in ionised calcium. No effect on 
electrocardiographic or hemodynamic variables. The 
highest dose resulted in a Cmax 1.6-fold higher than seen 
in humans at the maximum therapeutic dose. 
Seven Cardiac Membrane 
Channel Assay 
970035 
Non-
GLP 
in vitro 500 
ng/ml 
--- 
95% block of KATP channel. Kv4.3, Kv1.5 and hcNA 
blocked between 20 and 50%. No effect on L-type Ca2+, 
hKir2.2 and hERG. 
The target selectivity of cinacalcet was addressed in a receptor screen and in a study that was part of 
the  cardiovascular  safety  evaluation  where  seven  cardiac  membrane  channels  were  studied. 
Cinacalcet  at  10  µM  showed  activity  at  a  number  of  receptors  (8/63)  in  the  receptor  screen  (alpha 1 
adrenergic  non-selective,  the  central  muscarinic  non-selective, the dopamine non-selective, the sigma 
non-selective,  the  sodium  site  2,  the  NK2 receptors and the dopamine and serotonin binding sites on 
each  of  the  prospective  transporter  proteins).  Cinacalcet  at  500  ng/ml  showed  a  95%  block  of  the 
KATP  channel  and  a  20-50%  block  of  the  Kv4.3,  Kv1.5  and  hcNA  channels.  Further  studies  were 
performed  to  determine  IC50  values  for  cinacalcet  binding  to  the  receptors/ion  channels  showing 
binding  in  the  initial  screens.  The  highest  activities  were  observed  with  the  serotonin  transporter 
(IC50=635  nM)  and  the  KATP  channel  (IC50=210  nM).  Calculation  of  safety  margins  based  on  free 
fraction of drug would give margins >10. Although such calculations suggest a small risk for receptor 
interactions in the clinical situation, as a follow up measure, the applicant will perform additional non-
clinical  studies  to  confirm  this.  Considering  the  low  safety  margins  in  most  safety  pharmacology  and 
toxicology studies, the presence of secondary pharmacological events cannot be excluded.  
The possibility  of an interaction with the KATP channel was addressed by studying the hypoglycaemic 
potential of cinacalcet, based on the fact that antidiabetic sulfonylurea compounds act through the KATP 
channel.  The  Applicant  justified  that  the  lack  of  effect  in  cardiac,  blood  pressure,  and  glucose 
parameters observed  in vivo in rats, and the results of the Novascreen assay, are supportive that there 
will be no effect of cinacalcet on KATP channels with clinical use. The Applicant commits to perform 
additional studies, to further address this issue. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
Cinacalcet  is  an  organic  small  molecule  that  acts  as  an  allosteric  modulator  of  the  calcium-sensing 
receptor  on  the  parathyroid  cell  surface.  Cinacalcet  will  increase  the  sensitivity  of  the  receptor to 
extracellular calcium. The result of this will be a reduction of circulating PTH concentrations.  
Several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  pharmacology  models  assessed  the  activity  of  cinacalcet  in 
hyperparathyroidism.  The  parathyroid  and  thyroid  glands  appear  to be the only targets mediating the 
blood calcium lowering effect of cinacalcet in rats. 
Batteries  of  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conduced  as  well  as  additional  studies  looking  at 
secondary  organs.  This  covered  CNS,  cardiovascular,  respiratory,  renal, gastrointestinal, and glucose 
homeostatic systems. The data from these studies do not raise major concerns. However, some studies 
performed  to  determine  potential  interaction  with  a  selection  of  receptors,  channels  and  enzymes, 
suggested  a  potential,  small risk for receptor interactions in the clinical situation. Considering the low 
safety  margins  in  most  safety  pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies,  the  presence  of  secondary 
pharmacological  events  cannot  be  excluded  and  the  applicant  will  perform  further  studies to address 
this. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies with cinacalcet have been performed in the mouse, rat, dog and monkey.  
The  studies  were  carried  out  primarily  with  oral  administration,  which  is  the  clinical  route  of 
administration. 
9/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analytical  methods  were  developed  and  validated  to  quantitate  unlabelled  cinacalcet  in  mouse,  rat, 
rabbit, dog, monkey and human plasma. These methods utilised heparinised plasma samples that were 
extracted  using  solid  phase  extraction.  The  samples  were  separated  by  liquid  chromatography  (LC) 
and cinacalcet was detected by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Validated analytical procedures 
were also developed for AMG102664 (M7), a dealkylated metabolite of cinacalcet in rat, mouse and 
cynomolgus plasma. These metabolite assays were used to verify that animals in the control groups in 
toxicology  (carcinogenicity)  studies  were  not  exposed  to  parent  drug.  An  analytical  procedure  was 
developed for the separation and quantitation of cinacalcet (the R enantiomer) and its S enantiomer. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Cinacalcet  was  well  absorbed  upon  oral  administration.  However,  oral  bioavailability  was  generally 
low, less than 10% (when calculated from data in the PK tabulated summary only 1.4%) in rats and 
approximately 20% in humans. This is likely due to extensive first-pass metabolism. No sex differences 
were seen in PK parameters in the nonclinical species. Nonlinear kinetics, due to saturable absorption, 
was observed at high doses in some toxicology studies. The difference in bioavailability between rats 
and  humans  needs  to  be  considered  when  discussing  safety  margins,  and  safety  margins  should  be 
based on exposure determinations whenever possible.. 
• 
Distribution 
Cinacalcet is highly protein bound (93% to 99%) in all species. Studies with radiolabelled drug showed 
that cinacalcet is widely distributed in tissues without marked accumulation. The highest tissue levels 
were seen in the GI tract and the Harderian gland (a gland associated with the third eyelid, unique to 
rodents). The radioactivity in the CNS was relatively low. However, considering the high permeability 
of cinacalcet in Caco-2 cells, it is likely that the lower CNS radioactivity is mostly related to the lower 
penetration by polar metabolites and that the  active compound will appear in CNS at levels not below 
those in plasma. Cinacalcet is not a substrate of P-glycoprotein. Cinacalcet was excreted into the milk 
of lactating rats and it crossed the placental barrier in rabbits. 
• 
Metabolism  
In vitro and  in vivo studies were performed to elucidate the metabolic pathways for cinacalcet and to 
provide a comparison of the metabolism of cinacalcet in the toxicology species and in humans. 
• 
In vitro studies 
In vitro, cinacalcet undergoes NADPH-dependent oxidative metabolism in the presence of mouse, rat, 
dog,  monkey  and  human  liver  microsomes,  resulting  in  the  formation  of  multiple  metabolites.  Similar 
metabolite patterns were seen across species when comparing chromatographic retention times. The 
major  metabolites  were  dihydrodiols  (4  regioisomeric  forms)  formed  by  oxidation  of  the  naphtalene 
rings.  Multiple  CYP  enzymes  are  capable  of  metabolising  cinacalcet.  Studies  with  specific  CYP 
inhibitors  suggested  CYP3A4  and  CYP1A2  as  the  major  contributors  of  cinacalcet  metabolism in 
humans. 
• 
In vivo studies 
In vivo, cinacalcet is metabolised extensively in mice, rats, monkeys and humans. The primary routes 
of metabolism are N-dealkylation leading to carboxylic acid derivatives and oxidation of the naphtalene 
ring system to  form dihydrodiols. The oxidative metabolites are further conjugated before elimination. 
There do not appear to be human-specific routes of metabolism. 
Several minor metabolites were observed in animal models but not in humans. In humans, there was no 
detectable stereoconversion of cinacalcet (the R-enantiomer) to form the S-enantiomer. 
10/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The circulating and excreted metabolite profile of cinacalcet in humans was similar to that observed in 
animal models, indicating that appropriate species were utilised in the toxicology studies. 
• 
Excretion 
After  administration  of  radiolabelled  drug  to  animals  or  humans,  cinacalcet-derived radioactivity was 
rapidly eliminated. Both hepato-biliary and urinary elimination are major routes of elimination. 
After administration of [14C-CF3] cinacalcet to lactating rats, radioactivity was excreted into milk to a 
moderate  extent  (milk  to  plasma  AUC  ratio  of  0.46).  However,  the  milk  concentrations  of  parent 
cinacalcet were high, with a milk to plasma AUC ratio of 9.58. 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters  
The Applicant has appropriately described the non-clinical pharmacokinetic properties for cinacalcet. A 
number  of  studies  concerning  the  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  cinacalcet  in 
mice,  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  have  been  performed.  Oral  route  of  administration  was  used  in  the 
majority of the studies. 
Cinacalcet  showed  good  absorption,  but  low  oral  bioavailability,  likely  due  to  extensive  first-pass 
metabolism.  Cinacalcet  presented  high  protein  binding  across all species; it is widely distributed in all 
tissues, and is excreted into milk of lactating rats and it crossed the placental barrier in rabbits. 
Multiple  enzymes  extensively  metabolise  cinacalcet.  Studies  with  specific  CYP  inhibitors  suggested 
CYP3A4  and  CYP1A2  as  the  major  contributors  of  cinacalcet  metabolism  in  humans.  The  major 
circulating metabolites are inactive. 
Cinacalcet  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6  and  this  has  been  confirmed  to  be  clinically  relevant.  A 
small  increase  (<2-fold)  in  CYP  content was observed in the monkey toxicology at the highest dose 
(100mg/kg). 
Similar  metabolic  pathways  occur  in  humans  and  the  non-clinical species. There was no evidence of 
human-specific metabolites.  In humans, within 8 days after dosing, greater than 96% of a radioactive 
dose of cinacalcet is recovered, primarily as inactive urinary metabolites.   
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  mice  via  the  oral  and  i.p.  routes.  I.v.  dosing 
was not feasible due to the poor solubility of cinacalcet. They are summarised in the following table : 
Study ID 
970153 
Species/ 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Mouse 5M/5F 
Dose/Route 
0, 10, 100, 500 / oral 
Approx. lethal dose 
/ observed max 
non-lethal dose 
500 / 100 
970154 
Mouse 5M/5F 
0, 1, 5, 20 / i.p. 
20 / 5 
970151 
100326 
Rat 5M/5F 
0, 10, 100, 500 / oral 
Rat 5M/5F 
1000, 1500 / oral 
500 / 100 
1500/ 1000 
Major findings 
500 mg/kg: 1M died. 
Abnormal gait, decreased 
activity, quivering 
20 mg/kg: 1M/1F died. 
Abnormal gait, decreased 
activity, abnormal stance, 
prostration 
500 mg/kg: 1F died. 
1500 mg/kg: 2F died 
=1000 mg/kg: tremors, 
hypoactivity  
11/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
970152 
Rat 5M/5F 
0, 1, 5, 20 / i.p. 
- / 20 
No clinical signs.  
=5 mg/kg: Adhesion of liver 
lobes; white discoloration,  
focal capsulitis and capsular 
fibrosis of liver and spleen 
The  toxicities  seen  in  these  studies  were  likely  due  to  the  hypocalcaemia  resulting  from  the 
pharmacological  effect  of  cinacalcet  (tremors,  hypoactivity).  There  were  no  toxicokinetic  data  from 
these studies. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats,  dogs  and  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Toxicokinetic 
data  from  the  one-month dog study revealed low systemic exposure, possibly due to frequent emesis, 
and  rats  and  monkeys  were  selected  for  the  pivotal  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  The  hypocalcaemia 
resulting from the pharmacological effect of cinacalcet was the dose-limiting toxicity in most species. 
Clinical  signs  in  rats  included  laboured  breathing,  dehydration,  salivation,  skin  pallor  and  thinness. 
Cataracts  were  seen  in  high-dose  rats.  Mild  hyperplasia/inflammation  was seen in the caecum. This 
inflammatory lesion was not seen in the rodent diet studies (carcinogenicity studies), indicating that it 
may be related to the method of administration; oral gavage dosing in a bolus of methylcellulose.  
In  the  monkey  studies,  main  clinical  findings  were  poor  appetite,  sporadic  emesis  and  soft  to  liquid 
faeces.  QT-prolongation  was  seen  in  the  3-month  study,  and  was  proposed  to  be  secondary  to 
hypocalcaemia.  There  were  dose-dependent  declines  in  RBC  and  WBC.  Testosterone  levels  were 
decreased at all dose levels without any histological correlates. There were increases in ALT and AST 
at the highest dose. Increased liver weights (absolute and relative) were observed without microscopic 
correlates.  Total  hepatic  CYP450  increased  at  the high dose. Periportal vacuolation was observed in 
2/3 females in the high dose group at the 6-month interim sacrifice. The toxicological importance of this 
finding is unknown. 
Due to the dose-limiting toxicity associated with hypocalcaemia, safety margins achieved in the repeat-
dose  toxicity  studies  were  small.  In  the  clinical  setting,  calcium  levels  are  carefully  monitored  and 
hypocalcaemia is not likely to be a clinical problem. The toxic findings are in most cases attributed to 
the hypocalcaemia, either directly or indirectly as a result of the decreased food intake and decreased 
body weight. The main toxicity findings, grouped according to target organs were:  
•  GI tract: Emesis, soft or liquid faeces, caecal hyperplasia/inflammation  – Emesis could be due 
to hypocalcaemia or a direct CNS effect.  Caecal hyperplasia/inflammation was considered to 
be dependent on the administration procedure, gavage using methylcellulose as vehicle, since 
the  corresponding  finding  did  not  occur  in  the  carcinogenicity  diet  studies. A contribution of 
CaR in the GI tract is possible.  
•  Decreased  testosterone  levels  were  seen  in  monkeys  .  This  was  considered  due  to  delayed 
maturation  of  animals  secondary  to  decreased  body  weight  gains.  A  direct  effect  on  CaR  in 
testes was considered unlikely since no other hormonal effects were seen and the testes were 
normal histologically. 
•  Liver effects  – there was an increase in ALT, AST and triglyceride levels in monkeys and the 
levels  were  only  partly  normalised  after  4  weeks  recovery.  Other liver-related findings were 
also observed. 
•  Cataracts  were  seen  in  rats  only  and  proposed  to  be  related  to  hypocalcaemia  and/or 
accumulation in Harderian gland, which is found in rodents only. Cataract as a complication of 
hypocalcaemia has been described in the literature 
•  QT-findings  –  a  direct  correlation  between  QTc  intervals  and  calcium  levels  could  be 
observed.  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  correlation  does  not  necessarily  imply  a  causative 
relation. A secondary pharmacological effect cannot be fully excluded. Risk assessment must 
be based on clinical data (see below). 
12/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Lung – Abnormal breathing sounds and/or laboured breathing were reported as clinical signs in 
several  of  the  toxicity  studies.  Increased  airway  resistance  and  bronchoconstriction  was 
observed  in  guinea  pigs  in  a  safety  pharmacology  study.  The  laboured  breathing  observed  in 
the  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  is  a  known  consequence  of  hypocalcemia.  The  rapid  lung 
effects observed in the guinea pig study are not readily attributed to hypocalcemia. However, 
the  exposure  achieved  after  intravenous  administration  is  likely  to  be  several-fold higher than 
what is achieved in the clinical situation. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
A  conventional  battery  of  genotoxicity  studies  was  performed.  The  results  from  these  studies  are 
summarised in the following table: 
Type of test/Study 
ID/GLP 
Test system 
Gene mutations in 
bacteria  
Gene mutations in 
mammalian cells 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in vitro 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in vivo 
Salmonella TA98, 
TA100, TA1535, 
TA1537, E Coli 
WP2-uvrA 
CHO-cells, 
HGPRT-locus 
CHO-cells 
Mouse, micronuclei 
in bone marrow 
Concentrations/ 
Concentration range/ 
Metabolising system 
Results 
Positive/negative/equivocal 
-S9: up to 250 µg/plate  
+S9: up to 750 µg/plate  
Negative 
- S9: 1.5 – 10 µg/ml 
+S9: 10 – 40 µg/ml 
-S9: 0.75 – 6 µg/ml 
+S9: 1.5 – 12 µg/ml 
10, 100, 200 mg/kg 
single oral gavage 
Negative (see discussion below) 
Negative 
Negative 
These  studies  gave  no  evidence  for  a  genotoxic  potential  of  cinacalcet.  However,  in  partic ular in 
absence  of  metabolic  activation,  cinacalcet  exhibited  pronounced  cytotoxicity,  and  that  is  why  the 
studies  with  mammalian  cells  were  performed  at  relatively  low  concentrations.  Also,  in  the  in vitro 
chromosomal  aberration  test,  a  significant  increase  in  the  number  of  chromosomal  aberrations  was 
seen with  the  highest  dose  (6  µg/ml)  after  4  hours  incubation  but  not  after  20  hours  incubation.  The 
number of chromosomal aberrations was within the historical control range. The in vivo micronucleus 
assay was performed in mice. There were no positive findings; however exposure of the bone marrow 
to cinacalcet was not measured but only implied from a previous distribution study in rats. 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Two-year carcinogenicity studies were performed in mice and rats. There were no tumour findings. In 
rats  there  was  a  decreased  incidence  in  thyroid  C-cell  adenomas,  likely  to  be  related  to  the 
pharmacological  activity  of  cinacalcet  since  C-cells  express  CaR.  Plasma  levels  of  cinacalcet  were 
observed in  plasma  samples  taken  from  control  animals  in  both  the  rat  and  mouse  carcinogenicity 
studies. In contrast, very low or no metabolite was detected in the plasma of the control animals A full 
investigation  was  launched  to  determine  the  source  of  contamination,  and  it  was  considered  that the 
AMG  099073-00  measured  in  control  samples  was  possibly  due  to  post-collection  sample 
contamination.  It  could  be  concluded  that  the  control  animals  were  not  exposed  to  the  test  article 
because  the  standard  pharmacological  effects  (decreased  PTH  and  Ca)  were  not  seen  and  because 
virtually no metabolite (AMG 102664-00) was seen in the control samples. This metabolite was present 
at levels at least 20-fold higher than those of the parent in treated animals. The exposure to cinacalcet 
(AUC) in the high dose group was about 1.6-fold higher (mice), 2.5-fold higher (rat males) and 1.4-fold 
higher (rat females) than that observed for a human therapeutic dose. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
13/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction  and  development  studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  There  was  no  effect  on 
fertility in rats. Embryotoxicity (lower foetal body weights) was observed in rats and rabbits at doses 
associated  with  maternal  toxicity.  There  was  no  evidence  for  a  teratogenic  potential.  It  should  be 
pointed  out  that  maternal  and  foetal  toxicity  occurred  at  exposures  close  to  or  below  the  clinical 
exposure, and even at the highest dose evaluated in the main developmental toxicity studies the safety 
margins were small, in the rabbit study below one (0.4). This fact is clearly reflected in the SPC. 
Juvenile  toxicology studies were conducted in rats and dogs (28 days + 28 day recovery). In rats no 
important toxicological findings were observed at doses up to 5 mg/kg (representing an exposure 0.34-
fold that of the adult human dose). In this study, there were a  number of mortalities in the male high 
dose  group,  which  were  attributed  to  dosing  accidents.  In  dogs,  intramural  left  ventricular  arterial 
hypertrophy  was  noted  in  a  few  animals  at  all  dose  groups,  including  the  control,  with  increasing 
severity seen among animals administered 1.5 or 5.0 mg/kg at the end of the recovery period only. One 
male in the high dose group had multifocal left ventricular myocardial fibrosis. The relationship of these 
findings to the test article is unclear. The exposure to cinacalc et at the highest dose (5 mg/kg) was 0.1-
fold that of the adult human dose. 
• 
Local tolerance 
Dermal  exposure  to  cinacalcet  (0.5  g/ml)  produced  slight  skin  irritation  in  one  out  of  three  rabbits. 
Cinacalcet was shown to be a mild dermal contact sensitiser in the guinea pig. Cinacalcet was a severe 
irritant  to  the  conjunctiva  of  the  rabbit  eye.  In  addition,  cinacalcet  caused  corneal  opacity  and  iridial 
irritation. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Toxicity studies in rats and  in vitro genotoxicity studies were performed on impurities to evaluate their 
toxic potential. Impurities were qualified according to ICH guidelines. 
The potential synthetic and degradation impurities that are specified in the specification for control of 
the drug substance were qualified in pre-clinical studies.  Any single unspecified impurity is controlled 
at a level of 0.10%.  Additionally, the limit for total impurities is not greater than 0.70%.    
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The extent and scope of the documentation provided in this application are appropriate to support the 
non-clinical-pharmacology  profile  of  cinacalcet.  A  comprehensive  non-clinical  programme  was 
performed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  (including  drug  metabolism)  and  the 
toxicology, based on the expected long-term dosing of the drug.  
Cinacalcet  is  an  organic  small  molecule  that  acts  as  an  allosteric  modulator  of  the  calcium-sensing 
receptor  on  the  parathyroid  cell  surface.  Cinacalcet  increases  the  sensitivity  of  the  receptor  to 
extracellular calcium. The result of this is a reduction of circulating PTH concentrations. 
Various  pharmacological  studies  demonstrate  the  activity  of  cinacalcet  in  hyperparathyroidism.  The 
parathyroid  and  thyroid  glands  appear  to  be  the  only  targets  mediating  the  blood calcium lowering 
effect of cinacalcet in rodents. 
Pharmacokinetic studies with cinacalcet have been performed in the mouse, rat, dog and monkey.  
Following oral administration, cinacalcet showed good absorption, but low bioavailability, likely due to 
extensive  first-pass  metabolism.  It  is  also  widely  distributed  in  all  tissues.  Extensive  metabolism 
suggests major involvement of CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 in humans. 
14/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A complete  nonclinical toxicology programme was performed. It did not give rise to any serious safety 
concerns. However, the occurrence of non-tolerable hypocalcaemia already at exposure levels close to 
the clinical exposure severely limits the possibility to establish appropriate safety margins. 
The environmental risk assessment of cinacalcet is yet to be finalised. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  comprehensive  clinical  program  was  performed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics, 
efficacy and safety. The submission includes 47 clinical studies in normal volunteers and patients with 
primary  or  secondary  HPT  performed  from  December  1997  to  June  2003.  15  of  these  studies  were 
conducted  in  subjects  with  secondary  HPT,  and  5  studies  were  performed  in  subjects  with  primary 
HPT.  The remaining 27 studies provide biopharmaceutic and clinical pharmacology information as well 
as  information  on  initial  efficacy  and  tolerability  of  cinacalcet.    Two  thousand,  five  hundred 
twenty-three (2523) subjects have participated in the studies within the clinical program, including 1677 
subjects with secondary HPT and 151 subjects with primary HPT. 
The clinical studies were conducted in accordance with the principles of Good Clinical Practice (GCP) 
regulations/guidelines  available  from  regulatory  authorities  and  the  International  Conference  on 
Harmonisation (ICH). 
Pharmacokinetics 
The Applicant has performed a comprehensive clinical pharmacology programme (including in total 41 
in  vivo and  in  vitro studies).  In  vitro  studies  were  performed  using  human  biomaterials  (including 
plasma,  liver  microsomes,  expressed  cytochrome  P450  [CYP]  enzymes,  and  CaCo-2  cells)  to 
characterise the metabolism, permeability, and potential enzyme inhibition profile of cinacalcet.   
12 clinical studies were conducted in healthy volunteers to characterise the pharmacokinetic profile of 
cinacalcet  and  to  evaluate  the  potential  for  drug-drug  interactions  (amitriptyline,  warfarin,  calcium 
carbonate  [CaCO3],  ketoconazole,  sevelamer,  and  pantoprazole).  Additional  studies  evaluated  the 
effects on the pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet in patients with hepatic and renal dysfunction.   
16 studies were performed in patients with primary HPT and patients with secondary HPT and chronic 
kidney  disease  (including  both  patients  on  dialysis  and  patients  not  yet  requiring  dialysis),  which  are 
pharmacological  studies  or  studies  primarily  designed  for  efficacy  and  safety,  but  provided  additional 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data 
The analytical methods have been sufficiently characterised. Samples were extracted using online or 
offline solid phase extraction.  The extracted samples were separated by liquid chromatography (LC), 
and  cinacalcet  was  detected  by  tandem  mass  spectrometry  (MS/MS).    Most  analytical  procedures 
have used electrospray LC/MS/MS in the positive ion mode. The LOQ was 1ng/ml in  the majority of 
studies, but in a few studies 0.1ng/ml. Validation reports were provided. 
Stability validation data demonstrated that cinacalcet was stable in human plasma (heparinised tubes) 
for up to 21h at ambient temperature storage. Stability in  -20(cid:176) C and -70(cid:176) C was demonstrated for up to 
5months and 99days, respectively. 
• 
Absorption  
Cinacalcet was rapidly absorbed with maximal concentrations in patients typically reached at 2 to 6h 
after  oral  administration.  The  in  vitro  results  indicate  that  cinacalcet  is  permeable  and  is  not  a 
substrate for PgP in vitro. The extent of absorption was approximately 80%.  However, the absorption 
is saturated at doses above 200mg, most likely due to poor solubility. The absolute bioavailability during 
fed  conditions  was  approximately  30%.  There  is  a  substantial  food-effect,  with  on  average  70-80% 
15/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher AUC in the fed state, likely due to an increase in cinacalcet solubility from the tablet formulation 
at  concomitant  food  intake.  It  is  recommended  that  cinacalcet  should  be  taken  with  food  or  shortly 
after  a  meal,  as  was  done  in  the  Phase  III-programme.  This  recommendation  is  reasonable  and 
reduces the possible intra individual variability due to food effect. But, even so, the compliance with the 
food  recommendation  will  vary  in  the  population  and  the  food-effect  will  still  contribute  to  the 
variability, especially in patients taking cinacalcet more than two times daily.  
The  Applicant  has  performed  a  comprehensive  biopharmaceutical  program  showing  bioequivalence 
between formulations used in the clinical trials..  
• 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding was about 97% and distributes minimally into red blood cells. Steady-state 
volume of distribution was estimated to be 1,235L following 20mg IV, indicating extensive distribution 
outside the systemic circulation. 
• 
Elimination 
Cinacalcet is eliminated mainly through metabolism, the metabolites being excreted in urine.  
In patients with primary and secondary HPT, CL/F was 222L/h and 234L/h, respectively. Cinacalcet 
levels declined in a biphasic fashion with an initial half-life of approximately 6h and a terminal half-life 
of 30-40h. At steady-state, the two-fold accumulation (once-daily dosing) is predictive from single -dose 
data. About 80% (66 out of 82%) of the radioactivity in urine was identified. The major metabolite, M5 
accounted for overall 73% of radioactivity in plasma. Metabolites M6 and M2-Glu accounted for 9 and 
11  %,  respectively.  Excretion  in  the  faeces  accounted  for  approximately  15%  of  the  dosed 
radioactivity.  Cinacalcet  was  a  relatively  minor  component  in  plasma,  being  less  than  0.3%  of  the 
plasma radioactivity at Cmax. Cinacalcet appears to be metabolised by multiple CYP enzymes. The in 
vitro  data  indicate  that  CYP3A4,  CYP1A2,  CYP2D6  (at  low  concentrations)  and perhaps CYP2C9 
are  responsible  for  cinacalcet  metabolism  but  the  study  results  are  to  some  extent  contradictory. 
Polymorphism in CYP2D6 is not considered to be clinically important.  
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Approximate dose-proportionality has been shown between 30 and 180mg. Data indicate that there is 
non-linearity at low doses (5-25mg), possibly explained by saturation of CYP2D6-pathway.The steady-
state pharmacokinetic profile of cinacalcet did not appear to change over time. 
• 
Special populations 
Studies  980126  and  980125  investigated  the  pharmacokinetics  of  cinacalcet  after  multiple  doses  in 
patients with secondary and primary hyperparathyroidism. After administration of 50 mg/day cinacalcet 
to  patients  with  secondary  HPT,  Ctrough  and  Cmax were 3.53 and 20.2 ng/mL, respectively. After the 
same  dose  to  patients  with  primary  HPT,  average  Ctrough  and  Cmax  were  3.44  and  18.6 ng/mL at 
steady-state, respectively. The maximal plasma cinacalcet concentrations achieved after administration 
of the highest dose studied for the treatment of primary HPT (90 mg 4 times daily) were approximately 
2-fold greater than those typically obtained after once daily dosing of 180 mg. Steady-state is reached 
after  approximately  4-5  days  with  a  2-fold  accumulation  compared  with  single -dose.  No  major 
difference  in  the  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  was  detected  between  subjects  with  primary  and 
secondary  HPT.  There  is  large  variability  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  between  patients  (>50%). 
Given this large inter-patient variability in the pharmacokinetic parameters, dose titration appears to be 
justified.  Inter  occasion  variability  in  CL/F  was  rather  low  (20%)  further  supporting  the  titration 
strategy. 
16/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Even  though  mean  exposure  is  not  changed  with  renal  function,  variability is increased, although the 
observed  variability  may  be  partially  explained  by  the  small  sample  size  (6)  in  each  group  in  the 
relevant  study.  There  was,  however,  no  clear  relationship  between  AUC  versus  CLcrea.  The 
metabolites  of  cinacalcet  are  eliminated  through  renal  excretionand  may  accumulate  during  multiple 
dosing  in  the  ESRD  patient  population  compared  with  healthy  volunteers.  Mode  of  dialysis 
(haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet. 
As  predicted  from  the  elimination  mechanism,  hepatic  impairment  had  a  significant  effect  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  cinacalcet.  Compared  to  subjects  with  normal  liver  function,  average  AUC  of 
cinacalcet was approximately 2-fold higher in subjects with moderate impairment and approximately 4-
fold  higher  in  subjects  with  severe  impairment.  The  mean  half-life of cinacalcet is prolonged by 33% 
and  70%  in  patients  with  moderate  and  severe  hepatic  impairment,  respectively.  Protein  binding  of 
cinacalcet  is  not  affected  by  impaired  hepatic  function.  Because  doses  are  titrated  for  each  subject 
based on safety and efficacy parameters, no additional adjustment is required for subjects with hepatic 
impairment in the SPC. However, cinacalcet should be used with caution in patients with moderate or 
severe  hepatic  impairments  and  treatment  should  be  closely  monitored  during  dose  titration  and 
continued treatment with cinacalcet. 
There  appears  to  be  some  gender  difference  in  the  pharmacokinetics,  which  at  least  to  some  extent 
may  be  explained,  by  the  known  gender  difference  in  CYP1A2  expression.  This  gender  difference 
does  not  warrant  any  labelling  restrictions  given  the  overall  variability  of  the  product,  and  because 
doses  are  titrated  for  each  subject.  The  information  is  included  in  section  in  5.2  of  the  SPC,  and 
reflects the results from the population analysis.  
The effect of body weight, age and race were limited and does not warrant any labelling restrictions.  
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The  interaction  potential  for  cinacalcet  has  only  been  investigated  in  part.  The  only  in  vivo study 
contributing to the assessment of interaction on cinacalcet is the ketoconazole study.  A 2-fold increase 
in  cinacalcet  bioavailability,  most  likely  through  CYP3A4-inhibition,  confirms  the  importance  of 
CYP3A4  in  cinacalcet  metabolism.  The  effect  of  a  potent  CYP1A2  inhibitor  (e.g.  fluvoxamine, 
ciprofloxacin) has not been evaluated and it is not known, and a clinically relevant effect on cinacalcet 
clearance cannot be excluded. The following is included in the SPC: “caution should be exercised when 
cinacalcet  is  administered  concomitantly  with  strong  inhibitors  or  inducers  of  CYP3A4  and/or 
CYP1A2. Dose adjustment of cinacalcet may be necessary”. Additionally, plasma levels of cinacalcet 
may be lower in smokers due to induction of CYP1A2-mediated metabolism. Dose adjustment may be 
necessary  if  a  patient  starts  or  stops  smoking.  The  potential  for  cinacalcet  to  inhibit  the  major  CYP 
enzymes  was  also  evaluated  in  vitro.  Cinacalcet  does  not  potently  inhibit  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19,  or  CYP3A4.    However,  cinacalcet  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6  and  could  therefore 
impair  the  elimination  of  drugs  that  are  metabolised  primarily  by  this  enzyme.  The  in vivo inhibition 
potency,  however,  is  not  clear,  since  the  substrate  (amitriptyline)  used  in  the  interaction  study  is 
metabolised via also other enzymes. A cautionary statement is given in the SPC regarding CYP2D6-
substrates  with  narrow  therapeutic  index  (e.g.,  flecainide,  propafenone,  metoprolol  given  in  heart 
failure, desimipramine, nortriptyline, clomipramine), indicating that dose adjustments may be required. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Cinacalcet is a second generation derivative of the parent calcimimetic compound R-568.  
The clinical development program for cinacalcet investigated primary and secondary pharmacodynamic 
effects  in  volunteers,  in  patients  with  primary  hyperparathyroidism  and  in  patients  with  secondary 
hyperparathyroidism due to chronic renal failure or end-stage renal disease.  
17/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Cinacalcet is a first-in-class calcimimetic that modulates the activity of the calcium-sensing receptor.  
It is a small molecule that acts as an allosteric modulator of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) on the 
parathyroid cell surface.   
The  primary  role  of  the  CaR  is  control  of  parathyroid  hormone  (PTH)  secretion  in  response  to 
extracellular calcium concentration.  Cinacalcet acts to reduce circulating PTH concentration through 
activation of the CaR by increasing its sensitivity to extracellular calcium.  
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In the phase I studies cinacalcet given in single and multiple dose regimens (investigated in dose ranges 
between 1 and 100 mg) was demonstrated to reduce plasma iPTH and total calcium concentrations in 
a  dose  dependent  manner  in  healthy  volunteers  (970241).  After  administration  of  cinacalcet,  large 
intersubject variations in iPTH concentration were observed, though changes in each subject’s plasma 
iPTH  concentration  appeared  to  inversely  correlate  with  changes  in cinacalcet concentration. Serum 
calcitonin concentrations remained essentially unaffected after cinacalcet administration.  
In  secondary  HPT,  escalating  single  doses  of  cinacalcet  were  associated  with  decreasing  iPTH  and 
serum  calcium  concentrations  (980126).    The  iPTH  nadir  was  45%,  50%,  55%,  and  70%  below 
baseline values after doses of 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg, respectively, and iPTH-concentrations remained 
below baseline for 24 hours after doses of 25, 50, and 100 mg. During the multiple -dose phase, iP TH 
was 21% and 39% below baseline concentrations 24 hours after the last 50/25- and 50-mg dose on day 
8, respectively.  Serum calcium was 6%, 4%, and 7% below baseline concentrations 24 hours after the 
last  25-,  50/25-,  and  50-mg  dose  on  day  8,  respectively.  In  the  titration  study  (20000187),  a  large 
decrease  in  PTH  levels  was  evident  up  to  the  75mg  dose  and  a  trend  towards  a  moderate  decrease 
was seen at higher doses and no additional effect was seen at doses over 200mg (as expected based 
on  the  limited  absorption  at  higher  doses).  Large  variability  in  pharmacokinetics  was  seen  at  higher 
doses. In primary HPT (980125), an inverse correlation was observed between mean iPTH and mean 
cinacalcet  concentrations  for  both  the  QD  (50-100mg)  and  BID  (30-50mg)  dose  groups. 
Administration of multiple doses of cinacalcet at doses of 50, 75, and 100 mg QD or 30, 40, and 50 mg 
BID decreased elevated serum calcium to normal values that were sustained over the entire treatment 
period.  iPTH decreased rapidly (approximately  50% 2- to 4-hours postdose) and returned to baseline 
concentrations approximately 12 hours after dosing in the QD and BID treatment groups. 
In  conclusion,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  primary  pharmacology  programme  sufficiently 
demonstrates the effects of cinacalcet on iPTH and calcium levels in healthy volunteers, in CKD with 
secondary HPT and in patients with primary HPT. The Applicant has provided sufficient arguments in 
support of the proposed dosing recommendations. The proposed posology is supported by the results of 
the pivotal clinical studies. 
The clinical development program for cinacalcet included an evaluation of the effect of cinacalcet on 
ECG, in particular, the QT/QTc interval (studies 970241, 990751, and 20000187). ECG data collected 
in  these  studies  were  analysed  to  determine  the  QT  interval;  Bazett’s  and  Fridericia’s  correction 
formulae  were  used  for  correction  of  the  QT-interval data from Study 20000187.  The proportion of 
subjects with an increase from baseline interval of < 30  msec, 30 to 60 msec, and > 60 msec and the 
interval mean, median, and range were calculated. 
Subjects  receiving  cinacalcet  and  subjects  receiving  placebo  had  similar  QTc  intervals  at  any  time 
point.  Subjects participating in Study 20000187 received cinacalcet doses ranging from 25 to 300 mg 
once  daily  for  7  days.    In  this  study,  the  results  for  QTc  were  similar  among  all  dose  groups  and 
between cinacalcet and placebo groups regardless of the correction formulae.  Likewise, the results of 
the categorical analyses did not reveal any differences or trends within or between treatment groups.   
18/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The effects of cinacalcet on ECG were also examined rather extensively in the phase III programme. 
Clinical efficacy  
I. Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease. 
A total of 1597 CKD subjects with secondary HPT were enrolled in 15 clinical studies:  
4 randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled Phase II dose-titration studies in ESRD patients on 
haemodialysis with secondary HPT (studies 20000237, 990740, 990101, 990102) 
 3 randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled main Phase III studies in hemodialysis or    
  hemodialysis/ peritoneal dialysis patients  with secondary HPT in ESRD (studies 20000172,   
  20000183, 20000188) 
 2 randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled phase II studies in patients with CKD and  
  secondary HPT not receiving dialysis (studies 20000236, 20010239) 
 3 extension studies: 
• 
• 
• 
o  1 double blind, placebo-controlled Phase III extension study (study 20010240; with patients, 
who completed studies 20000172 and 20000183) 
o  1  open  label  Phase  II  extension  study  (study  20000130;  with  patients  who  completed 
studies 990101, 990102, 990740, 20000237) 
o  1  open  label  extension  study  (20020158),  which  is  still  ongoing  (including  patients, who 
completed studies 20000172, 20000183, 20000188, 20010141, 20010240);  
•  A  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  (20010141)  to  examine  the  effects  of 
cinacalcet  on  renal  osteodystrophy  in  ESRD  patients  with  secondary  HPT  on  dialysis,  and  1 
ancillary placebo-controlled study in patients with osteitis fibrosa (990126) 
•  Study  20010142,  an  open-label  extension  study  to  assess  the  long-term  safety  and  efficacy  of 
cinacalcet in subjects with CKD not receiving dialysis and secondary HPT was discontinued. 
• 
Dose response studies 
In  four  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  phase  II  studies  (20000237,  990101,  990740, 
990102)  dose  titration  of  cinacalcet  was  performed  over  8-12  weeks  in  haemodialysis  patients  with 
secondary  HPT  (iPTH  =  300  pg/mL).  The  titration  period  was  followed  by  a  6-week maintenance 
phase in 2 of the studies. The studies included altogether 147 cinacalcet treated patients compared with 
146  placebo  treated.  The  doses  employed  ranged  from  20  mg  to  180  mg/day  with  maximal  doses 
varying between studies (50, 100 or 180 mg/day). Reductions in mean iPTH levels, as measured before 
cinacalcet administration, were observed in a dose dependent manner. After the titration the reductions 
varied between 26 and 47 % (in pre-dose samples), with more pronounced reductions obtained with the 
higher doses, and the reductions persisted during the maintenance phase. However, there were large 
interindividual variations. Calcium levels were modestly reduced (5-7%) as were the phosphorus levels 
(5-14%).  In  study  20000187  doses  up  to  300  mg  were  employed,  but  exposure  did  not  appear  to 
increase at doses greater than 200 mg.  A starting dose of 30 mg was chosen because this dose was 
well tolerated and in general, lower doses did not appreciably lower PTH concentrations.  A maximum 
once-daily dose of 180 mg was chosen because cinacalcet exposure increased proportionally with dose 
over  the  range  of  30  to  180  and  then  plateaued  at  doses  above  approximately  180  mg  (Study 
20000187).   
Across  studies  and  individuals, no clear relationship was apparent between cinacalcet concentrations 
and the occurrence of adverse events.   
The CHMP concluded that the primary pharmacological effects of different doses of cinacalcet were 
evaluated  in  a  fairly  large  number  of  ESRD  patients  with  secondary  HPT  and  the  dose  titration 
regimen  chosen  for  further  evaluation  in  the  phase  III  studies  is  judged  to  be  well  supported  by  the 
results. 
19/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Main studies  
The  clinical  development  program  performed  for  cinacalcet  in  the  treatment  of  secondary  HPT 
associated  with  CKD  includes  subjects  on  dialysis  (ESRD)  and  patients  not  receiving  dialysis.    The 
phase  3  program  included  4  double -blind,  placebo-controlled studies in subjects with secondary HPT 
receiving  maintenance  dialysis.    Two  randomised  placebo-controlled studies evaluated the effects of 
cinacalcet in CKD subjects not receiving dialysis.  The 30 to 180 mg cinacalcet dose range and dose-
titration study design were used, regardless of the stage of CKD. 
In  addition,  seven  supportive phase 2 studies in subjects with secondary HPT receiving maintenance 
haemodialysis (HD) were conducted, including 6 randomised, placebo-controlled trials. 
S e c o n d a r y 
E f f i c a c y 
  a n d 
  S a f e t y 
  H y p e r p a r a t h y r o i d i s m 
C o n t r o l l e d 
S t u d i e s 
E S R D 
U n c o n t r o l l e d   S t u d y 
C K D   N o t 
R e c e i v i n g 
D i a l y s i s 
K  e y 
S t u d i e s 
S u p p o r t i v e 
S t u d i e s 
B o n e 
  E f f e c t s 
2 0 0 0 0 1 3 0 
9 9 0 1 2 6 
2 0 0 1 0 1 4 1 
2 0 0 0 0 2 3 6 
2 0 0 1 0 2 3 9 
2 0 0 0 0 1 7 2 
2 0 0 0 0 1 8 3 
2 0 0 0 0 1 8 8 
9 9 0 1 0 1 
9 9 0 1 0 2 
9 9 0 7 4 0 
2 0 0 0 0 2 3 7 
2 0 0 1 0 2 4 0 
I.A Secondary HPT in ESRD Subjects 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The efficacy of cinacalcet in the treatment of secondary HPT in ESRD subjects is mainly supported by 
three phase 3, 6-month, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (20000172, 20000183, and 
20000188)  in  patients  on  standard  therapy  (Vitamin  D  analogues  and/or  phosphate  binders).    In 
addition, a phase 3 extension study (20010240) provided 1-year, placebo-controlled safety and efficacy 
results in ESRD subjects with secondary HPT. Eligible subjects were adults with ESRD and iPTH > 
300  pg/mL  who  were  receiving  HD.    Study  20000188  also  included  subjects  receiving  peritoneal 
dialysis (PD).  No eligibility restrictions were specified for Ca x P at baseline. 
Treatments 
Subjects were permitted to continue receiving standard of care (vitamin D and phosphate binders), if 
prescribed.    During  the  30-day  period  before  day  1  (first  dose  of  study  drug  in  each  study),  the 
prescribed dose and brand of vitamin D sterols and phosphate binders were to remain constant.  Once 
subjects were on study, investigators were at liberty to change phosphate binders at any time during the 
study.  Vitamin D sterols could only be changed based upon the protocol-specified guidelines listed in 
the following table. 
20/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 Days Before Study  
Day 1 to End of Study 
Fixed dose and brand 
Complete flexibility of dose and brand 
Phosphate 
Binders 
Vitamin D 
Sterols 
Fixed dose, brand, and 
route of administration 
Decrease permitted if: 
Increase permitted if: 
Serum calcium 
‡  11 mg/dL 
Serum calcium 
< 8.4 mg/dL 
Serum phosphorus 
‡  6.5 mg/dL 
Symptoms of 
hypocalcaemia 
Ca x P ‡  70 (mg/dL)2 
PTH <100 pg/mL on the 
lowest dose of study drug 
(30 mg 
cinacalcet/placebo)a 
PTH increases by ‡  50% 
from baseline for 
3 consecutive visitsa 
a   Studies 20000172 and 20000183 only 
Each  study  consisted  of  2  phases:  a  12-week  (studies  20000172  and  20000183)  or  16-week (study 
20000188) dose-titration phase in which possible sequential daily doses of 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 mg 
cinacalcet  or  placebo  were  evaluated,  and  a  14-week  (or  10-week)  efficacy-assessment phase  (in 
which doses could also be titrated).  Study 20000188 allowed dose titration every 4 weeks (instead of 
every 3 weeks) to gain experience with a different dose-titration frequency. 
Key aspects of the design, entry criteria, and efficacy endpoints were consistent between studies  
Study Number/ 
Type 
Entry Criteria 
No. of Patients 
Enrolled/Treatment 
Geographic 
Region 
US 
Canada 
20000172 
Randomised, double 
blind, placebo 
control 
ESRD and iPTH 
 300 pg/mL 
receiving 
haemodialysis for 
 3 months 
20000183 
Randomised, double 
blind, placebo 
control 
ESRD and iPTH 
 300 pg/mL 
receiving 
haemodialysis for 
 3 months 
410 enrolled: 
205/cinacalcet 
(30 mg with dose 
titration to 60, 90, 120, 
and 180 mg) 
205/placebo 
331 enrolled: 
166/cinacalcet 
(30 mg with dose 
titration to 60, 90, 120, 
and 180 mg) 
165/placebo 
Duration of 
Cinacalcet 
Exposure 
26 weeks 
(12-week 
dose titration and 
14-week efficacy 
assessment) 
EU 
Australia 
26 weeks 
(12-week dose titration 
and 14-week efficacy 
assessment) 
20000188 
Randomised, double 
blind, placebo 
control 
ESRD and iPTH 
 300 pg/mL 
receiving 
haemodialysis or 
peritoneal dialysis for 
 1 month 
395 enrolled: 
294/cinacalcet 
(30 mg with dose 
titration to 60, 90, 120, 
and 180 mg) 
101/placebo 
US 
Canada 
Australia 
26 weeks 
(16-week dose titration 
and 10-week efficacy 
assessment) 
Endpoints 
21/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‡
‡
‡
‡
‡
‡
 
 
 
Primary end-point in all studies was the proportion of subjects achieving a mean pre dose iPTH value = 
250 pg/mL. 
Endpoint 
Study 
20000172 
Study 
20000183 
Study 
20000188 
Proportion of subjects with a mean iPTH value £
 250 pg/mL 
Primary 
Primary 
Primary 
Proportion of subjects with a reduction from baseline in mean 
iPTH of ‡
 30% 
Secondary 
Secondary 
Secondary 
Percent change from baseline in mean Ca x P 
Secondary 
Secondary 
Change from baseline in self-reported KDQOL cognitive 
functioning scale score 
Secondary 
Secondary 
-- 
-- 
Percent change from baseline in mean iPTH 
Tertiary 
Tertiary 
Secondary 
Percent change from baseline in mean serum calcium 
Tertiary 
Tertiary 
Percent change from baseline in mean serum phosphorus 
Tertiary 
Tertiary 
Proportion of subjects with a mean iPTH £
reduction from baseline in Ca x P 
 250 pg/mL and a 
Tertiary 
Tertiary 
-- 
-- 
-- 
Randomisation 
The protocols for studies 20000172 and 20000183 were identical, with the studies being conducted in 
different  geographic  regions  (North  America  and  Europe/Australia,  respectively).    Both  studies 
included  a  1:1  randomisation  to  cinacalcet  or  pla cebo,  whereas  study  20000188  had  a  3:1 
randomisation.  In all studies, randomisation was stratified by mean baseline iPTH level (> 300 and < 
500, > 500 and < 800, > 800 pg/mL).  In addition, studies 20000172 and 20000183 were stratified by 
baseline  Ca  x  P  (<  70,  >  70  [mg/dL]),  and  study  20000188  was  stratified  by  mode  of  dialysis  (HD, 
PD).    Enrolment  of  subjects  with  a  baseline  iPTH  >  800  pg/mL  was  limited  to  20%  of  subjects  in 
studies  20000172  and  20000183,  based  upon  the  prevalence  of  severe  secondary  HPT in the dialysis 
population.  In study 20000188, no limitations on enrolment were specified for this subgroup 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  analyses  of  the  efficacy  endpoints  used  the  intention-to-treat (ITT) populations, which 
included all subjects who were randomised. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test was used for 
comparisons  between  treatment  groups  for  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  end-points. Since the 
populations  and  end-points  were  essentially  similar  in  the  three  pivotal  studies  and  since interaction 
tests  for  the  primary  end-point did not demonstrate any interaction between protocol and outcome or 
between  treatment  group  and  protocol,  data  were  pooled  for  additional  analyses.  Subjects  with  no 
efficacy-assessment data were considered to be non-responders (PTH = 250pmol/mL, PTH reduction 
= 30%) or the LOCF method was used (change in mean CaxP, PTH, Ca, and P). 
Study 20010240 
A phase 3, placebo-controlled, double-blind extension study (study 20010240) was also conducted.  In 
this  study,  subjects  completing  studies  20000172  and  20000183  could  continue  with  their  original 
treatment assignment for an additional 26 weeks, providing 12 months of overall exposure to cinacalcet 
or placebo.  Although the primary objective of study 20010240 was to evaluate long-term safety, iPTH, 
Ca x P, serum calcium, and serum phosphorus data provide supportive information on the efficacy of 
cinacalcet  over  1  year.    Additional  long-term efficacy data were also collected in study 20010141, a 
double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  1-year  study  that  evaluated  the  effects  of  cinacalcet  on  bone 
histomorphometry in ESRD subjects with secondary HPT, and study 20000130, an ongoing, open-label 
extension study in ESRD subjects with secondary HPT receiving HD. 
22/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
The results were consistent in the three studies and mainly pooled data are presented below. 
Subject disposition for the three phase 3 efficacy studies is shown in the following table. Across these 
studies,  71%  of  subjects  randomised  to  cinacalcet  and  78%  of  subjects  randomised  to  placebo 
completed  the  study.    In  study  20000183,  a  higher  withdrawal  rate  was  observed  for  the  cinacalcet 
group (36%) than for the placebo group (20%).  Adverse events were the most common reason for 
withdrawal  in  this  study,  leading  to  the discontinuation of 23% of the cinacalcet group and 5% of the 
placebo group (study 20000183).  Since response rates were similar when using the ITT analysis set 
and  the  subset  of  subjects  who  had  values  during  the  efficacy-assessment  phase,  the  difference  in 
withdrawal rates between the cinacalcet and placebo groups in this study did not appear to impact the 
overall conclusions of the efficacy analysis.  Otherwise, subject disposition and reasons for withdrawal 
were generally similar between treatment groups and across studies.  
Study 20000172 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Study 20000183 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Study 20000188 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Total 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Randomised 
 205 (100) 
 205 (100) 
 165 (100) 
 166 (100) 
 101 (100) 
 294 (100) 
 471 (100) 
 665 (100) 
Received study drug 
 204 (100) 
 200 ( 98) 
 165 (100) 
 165 ( 99) 
 101 (100) 
 291 ( 99) 
 470 (100) 
 656 ( 99) 
Completed 
 158 ( 77) 
 146 ( 71) 
 132 ( 80) 
 107 ( 64) 
  77 ( 76) 
 217 ( 74) 
 367 ( 78) 
 470 ( 71) 
Discontinued 
  Ineligibility  
  47 ( 23) 
   1 (  0) 
  59 ( 29) 
   0 (  0) 
  33 ( 20) 
   0 (  0) 
  59 ( 36) 
   0 (  0) 
  24 ( 24) 
   0 (  0) 
  77 ( 26) 
   1 (  0) 
 104 ( 22) 
   1 (  0) 
 195 ( 29) 
   1 (  0) 
Study 20000172 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Study 20000183 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Study 20000188 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Total 
Placebo  Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
n (%) 
  Adverse event 
  Consent withdrawn 
  Administrative  
  Lost to follow-up 
  Death 
  Protocol-specified  
    Parathyroidectomy  
    Renal transplant 
  Other 
  19 (  9) 
  11 (  5) 
   3 (  1) 
   1 (  0) 
   5 (  2) 
   7 (  3) 
   2 (  1) 
   5 (  2) 
   0 (  0) 
  19 (  9) 
  15 (  7) 
   7 (  3) 
   4 (  2) 
   6 (  3) 
   8 (  4) 
   0 (  0) 
   8 (  4) 
   0 (  0) 
   9 (  5) 
   3 (  2) 
   2 (  1) 
   0 (  0) 
   5 (  3) 
  12 (  7) 
   3 (  2) 
   9 (  5) 
   2 (  1) 
  38 ( 23) 
   4 (  2) 
   0 (  0) 
   2 (  1) 
   3 (  2) 
   8 (  5) 
   0 (  0) 
   8 (  5) 
   4 (  2) 
   8 (  8) 
   1 (  1) 
   3 (  3) 
   0 (  0) 
   2 (  2) 
   8 (  8) 
   2 (  2) 
   6 (  6) 
   2 (  2) 
  39 ( 13) 
  13 (  4) 
   6 (  2) 
   3 (  1) 
   3 (  1) 
  10 (  3) 
   0 (  0) 
  10 (  3) 
   2 (  1) 
  36 (  8) 
  15 (  3) 
   8 (  2) 
   1 (  0) 
  12 (  3) 
  27 (  6) 
   7 (  1) 
  20 (  4) 
   4 (  1) 
  96 ( 14) 
  32 (  5) 
  13 (  2) 
   9 (  1) 
  12 (  2) 
  26 (  4) 
   0 (  0) 
  26 (  4) 
   6 (  1) 
Conduct of the study 
The studies were well performed and were considered to be informative 
Baseline data 
The  study  populations  are  judged  to  be  essentially  representative  for  the  European  ESRD  target 
population  with  regard  to  demographic  characteristics,  baseline  laboratory  values,  D-vitamin  and 
phosphate binder use. Probably, the use of sevelamer has increased in Europe since the studies were 
performed.   
Outcomes and estimation 
For the primary endpoint in all three phase 3 studies, a significantly higher proportion of subjects (p < 
0.001) in the cinacalcet group compared with the placebo group achieved the target iPTH level (iPTH 
< 250 pg/mL). 
23/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
     
  
     
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
     
  
     
  
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
When  the  results  of  the  three  phase  3  studies  were  pooled,  the  iPTH  concentration  was  reduced  by 
42% during the efficacy-assessment phase in the cinacalcet group (n=665) compared with an increase 
of  8%  in  the  placebo  group  (n=471).  The  mean  difference  between  treatment  groups  was  –49.5 %  
(95% CI  –54.1; –45.0 %). Mean iPTH concentrations at each measurement time point are provided in 
the following figure: 
50
40
30
20
10
0
l
¡
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
-60
-70
-80
M
ea
n
(S
E)
iP
TH
Pe
rc
en
t
Ch
an
ge
(%
¡
l
¡
¡
l
l
¡ ¡ ¡
Placebo
l l l
Cinacalcet
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
¡
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
B 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Week
Placebo (N):
471
Cinacalcet(N): 664
451
640
440
610
439
600
420
581
410
559
410
547
401
536
399
535
389
514
373
504
367
492
370
473
366
473
B = Baseline
For total placebo and total cinacalcet, the least square means adjusted for the study are displayed.
Results  were  consistent  within  all  strata  defined  by  baseline  iPTH  and  Ca  x  P,  and  in  PD  and  HD 
populations.  The  efficacy  of  cinacalcet  on  iPTH  and  Ca  x  P  was  evaluated  in  subjects  who  had  a 
decrease,  no  change,  or  an  increase  from  baseline  in  vitamin  D  sterol  dose  during  the  study.   
Cinacalcet reduced iPTH and Ca x P levels regardless of vitamin D dose change group, and whether 
or not Vitamin D sterols were administered during the study 
In the pooled study population, Ca x P was reduced by 14% during the efficacy-assessment phase in 
the cinacalcet group, compared with an increase of 0.1% in the placebo group. The mean difference 
between treatment groups was 14.05 % (95% CI; -17.2, -10.9 %). 
Serum  calcium  was  reduced  by  7%  during  the  efficacy-assessment  phase  in the cinacalcet group 
compared with an increase of 0.6% in the placebo group (difference between treatment groups  –7.3, 
95% CI;  –8.2%, -6.4%). When the results of the three phase 3 studies were pooled, serum phosphorus 
was reduced by 8% during the efficacy-assessment phase in the cinacalcet group compared with 0.4% 
in the placebo group (difference between treatment groups –7.5%, 95% CI; –10.6%, -4.4%). 
Patient-reported  outcomes  were  assessed  in  the  controlled  phase  3  studies  using  the  KDQOL 
Cognitive  Functioning scale and, as exploratory endpoints, scales in the Medical Outcomes Study 36-
item  Short-Form  Health  Survey  (SF-36).  The  change  in  mean  KDQOL  Cognitive  Functioning  scale 
score  from  baseline  to  the  efficacy-assessment  phase  did  not  differ  between  the  cinacalcet and 
placebo  groups  in  any  of  the  phase  3  studies.  Similar  results  were  observed  for  the  SF-36 Physical 
Component Summary score. 
In a pooled analysis of the controlled phase 3 studies, no notable differences were observed between 
subjects receiving cinacalcet and placebo for any Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) scale.   
24/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The lack of effects in the QoL measurements is not surprising in this severely affected population. 
The proportion of subjects achieving the primary endpoint (iPTH £
 250 pg/mL) was analysed by age (< 
65, ‡
 65 years), sex, race (black, white, other), and geographic region (US, European Union, Canada, 
Australia).    For  each  of  these  subgroups,  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  cinacalcet  group 
 250 pg/mL) as well as a  £
compared  with  the  placebo  group  achieved the primary endpoint (iPTH  £
30% reduction in iPTH.  Similarly, within each demographic subgroup, a greater percentage reduction 
in Ca x P, serum calcium, and serum phosphorus was observed in the cinacalcet group compared with 
the placebo group.  The magnitude of the treatment effect was similar across subgroups, indicating that 
the efficacy of cinacalcet was consistent regardless of baseline demographic characteristics 
Ancillary analyses 
The numbers of subjects at each dose level at end of studies are provided in the following table: 
Dose  
N (%) 
30 mg 
136 (21%) 
60 mg 
109 (17%) 
90 mg 
98 (15%) 
120 mg 
89 (14%) 
180 mg 
224 (34%) 
Across the 4 Phase 3 ESRD studies, no subject in the cinacalcet group and 11 subjects in the pla cebo 
group withdrew from study due to parathyroidectomy. 
Study  20010240  was  a  6-month,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  extension  study  for  subjects 
completing  the  6-month  phase  3  studies  20000172  or  20000183,  providing  an  assessment  of  efficacy 
over 12 months.  
Reductions in iPTH and CaxP were maintained over time. 
Study 20000130 was an open-label, extension study providing an efficacy assessment for up to 3 years 
in total. After 100 weeks (n=60) on cinacalcet, the proportions of subjects with an iPTH = 250 pg/mL 
or = 30% reduction in iPTH from baseline were 52% and 65%, respectively (as compared with 44% 
and 56%, respectively, at week 52). 
I.B Treatment of secondary HPT in CKD subjects not receiving dialysis 
The efficacy of cinacalcet for the treatment of secondary HPT in CKD subjects not receiving dialysis 
is supported by the results of 2 individual studies (20000236 and 20010239).  Data from these 2 studies 
were not pooled to evaluate efficacy since key eligibility criteria (ie, iPTH and serum calcium) and the 
primary endpoints differed in these studies.   
Studies 20000236 and 20010239 were both randomised, double -blind, placebo-controlled, studies.  
The mean magnitude of the reduction in iPTH in CKD subjects not receiving dialysis was comparable 
with that observed in ESRD subjects, as summarised in the following table: 
Study 20000236 
Study 20010239 
Placebo 
(N = 31) 
Cinacalcet  
(N = 30) 
Placebo 
(N = 27) 
Cinacalcet  
(N = 27) 
% Subjects with ‡
 30% reduction in iPTH 
% Change in iPTH a 
10% 
6% 
90% 
-59% 
19% 
6% 
56% 
-32% 
a 
During the efficacy-assessment phase (weeks 12 to 16 for study 20000236 and weeks 12 to 18 for study 20010239) 
25/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject disposition for studies 20000236 and 20010239 is provided in the following table.  The numbers 
of  subjects  completing  the  titration  and  efficacy  assessment  phases  were  similar  between  treatment 
groups in each study. 
26/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
Randomised 
Titration phase 
   Started 
   Discontinued 
   Completed 
Efficacy assessment phase  
   Started 
   Discontinued 
   Completed 
Study 20000236 
Study 20010239 
Placebo 
n (%) 
Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
Placebo 
n (%) 
Cinacalcet 
n (%) 
31 
30 
27 
27 
31 (100) 
2 (6) 
29 (94) 
29 (94) 
3 (10) 
26 (84) 
30 (100) 
3 (10) 
27 (90) 
27 (90) 
1 (3) 
26 (87) 
27 (100) 
6 (22) 
21 (78) 
21 (19) 
1 (4) 
20 (74) 
27 (100) 
7 (26) 
20 (74) 
20 (18) 
2 (7) 
18 (67) 
Total discontinued 
5 (16) 
4 (13) 
7 (26) 
9 (33) 
I.C Bone Health in secondary HPT  
Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover 
Bone  specific  alkaline  phosphatase  (BALP)  was  measured  in  the  phase  3  ESRD  studies  and  a 
reduction  in  median  BALP  levels  was  noted  among  the  cinacalcet  treated  patients  (from  23  to  16, 
n=656) as compared to the placebo treated (24 to 23, n=470). Serum N-Tx was measured in the phase 
II study 20010141, which included a small number of patients (32 cinacalcet treated, 16 placebo), and a 
reduction  in  median  levels  was  noted  among  the  cinacalcet  treated  patients  after  52  weeks  of 
treatment. 
Bone Mineral Density 
In  the  double-blind  placebo-controlled phase 2  study  990740  in  subjects  with  ESRD  (Placebo  n=35, 
Cinacalcet  n=36),  BMD  was  measured  at  various  sites  by  dual  X-ray  absorptiometry  scanning  at 
baseline  and  after  54  weeks  of  treatment.    For  most  sites,  no  significant  differences  were  observed 
between  treatment  groups  for  percentage  change  from  baseline  in  BMD.    A  statistically  significant 
increase was observed at the end of the study for total body in the cinacalcet group, compared with 
placebo (p = 0.031). 
Bone Histomorphometry 
To investigate the effects of cinacalcet treatment on renal osteodystrophy, a 1-year, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind  study  (20010141)  was  conducted  in  ESRD  subjects  with  secondary  HPT  (uncontrolled 
using  current  therapies)  receiving  dialysis.    Nineteen  cinacalcet  subjects  and  13  placebo  subjects 
underwent paired bone biopsies at baseline and after 52 weeks of treatment.  
There  were  trends  to  reductions  in  mean  bone  turnover  parameters  (activation  frequency,  BFR, 
fibrosis surface, and the number of osteoblasts and osteoclasts) among the cinacalcet treated patients 
that did not, however, differ significantly from placebo. 
At baseline, 16 of 19 subjects in the cinacalcet group and 11 of 13 subjects in the placebo group were 
classified  as  having  mild  hyperparathyroid  bone  disease.  Three  subjects  in  the  cinacalcet  group 
developed  adynamic  bone  disease  during  the  study,  which  appeared  to  result  from  sustained  over-
suppression  of  iPTH  (<  100  pg/mL)  in  2  subjects  (1  of  which  was  diabetic)  and  immobilisation  and 
hypercalcaemia in 1 subject. Two subjects in the cinacalcet group and 4 subjects in the placebo group 
developed mixed uraemic osteodystrophy (defined as a normal or elevated activation frequency/BFR in 
the presence of an elevated MLT). 
Fractures 
27/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To evaluate the incidence of fractures in the phase 3 ESRD population, the database was screened and 
a total of 18 (4%) placebo subjects and 10 (2%) cinacalcet subjects experienced one of these events 
while  on  study.  Kaplan-Meier estimates of the cumulative probability of fractures were lower for the 
cinacalcet group, as compared with placebo. 
II. Treatment in intractable primary HPT and parathyroid cancer 
The clinical program evaluating the efficacy of cinacalcet in the treatment of primary HPT included 3 
completed, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (980125, 990120, and 990160) and 2 ongoing, open-
label  studies  (20000159  and  20000204).  Study  20000159  is  an  ongoing  open-label extension study for 
subjects  completing  study  990120.    Study  20000204  was  designed  as  an  open-label, single-arm study, 
and  is  the  pivotal  study  for  this  indication,  recruiting  patients  with  intractable  primary  HPT  or 
parathyroid cancer. Studies 980125, 990120, and 990160 included altogether 136 patients with primary 
HPT and iPTH levels  = 45 pg/mL and serum calcium above 10.3 mg/dl. Cinacalcet reduced Calcium 
levels  by  approximately  10-15%  and  this  effect  was  essentially  maintained  over  1-2  years  (study 
20000159). 
The  primary  objective  for  efficacy  in  all  5  studies  was  to  evaluate  the  ability of cinacalcet to reduce 
serum calcium concentrations in subjects with primary HPT. 
Overview of Cinacalcet Studies for the Treatment of Primary HPT 
Study Number/ 
Type 
980125 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 
dose-ranging 
Entry Criteria 
No. of Subjects  
Enrolled/Treatment 
Geographic 
Region 
Primary HPT 
iPTH = 45 pg/mL 
Serum calcium > 10.3 mg/dL 
and = 12.5 mg/dL 
48 totala 
39/cinacalcet 
50, 75, 100 mg QD 
30, 40, 50 mg BID 
US 
Duration of 
Cinacalcet 
Exposure 
QD phase, 
6 weeks 
BID phase, 
15 days 
990120 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, dose 
titration 
Primary HPT  
iPTH = 45 pg/mL 
Serum calcium > 10.3 mg/dL 
and = 12.5 mg/dL 
9/placebo 
US 
78 total 
40/cinacalcet 
(30 mg BID with dose 
titration to 40 and 
50 mg BID) 
38/placebo 
990160 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 
fixed-dose  
20000159 
Open-label, single-arm, 
dose-titration extension 
Primary HPT  
iPTH = 45 pg/mL 
Serum calcium = 11.0 mg/dL 
10 total 
6/cinacalcet 
(65 mg BID) 
US 
Patients with primary HPT 
who completed protocol-
specified treatment and 
end-of-study assessments 
from study 990120 
4/Placebo 
US 
45/cinacalcet 
(30 mg BID with dose 
titration to 
50 mg BID) 
12 weeks 
(titration) 
12 weeks  
(maintenance) 
28 weeks 
(follow up) 
4 weeks 
(treatment) 
1 week 
(follow up) 
12 weeks 
(titration) 
3 years planned 
(maintenance) 
20000204 
Open-label, single-arm, 
dose titration 
Parathyroid carcinoma or 
intractable primary HPT 
with a serum calcium > 12.5 
mg/dL 
29/cinacalcet 
(30 mg BID to 
90 mg QID) 
US/Canada  16 weeks 
(titration) 
3 years planned 
(maintenance) 
QD:  once daily 
BID:  twice daily 
28/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iPTH:  intact parathyroid hormone 
a 
Forty subjects (32 cinacalcet, 8 placebo) were originally enrolled in this study.  Eight additional subjects 
(7 cinacalcet, 1 placebo) were enrolled as replacements for the BID phase of the study. 
Study 20000204 
The  pivotal  study  20000204 is a multicentre, open label, single arm, dose titration study evaluating the 
efficacy,  safety,  and  pharmacokinetics  of  cinacalcet  in  subjects  with  parathyroid  carcinoma  or 
intractable primary HPT (failed or contraindicated for parathyroidectomy) with a serum calcium > 12.5 
mg/dL  at  screening.    The  primary  endpoint  is  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  = 1 mg/dL reduction in 
serum  calcium  at  the  end  of  the  titration  phase.    The  variable -length titration phase (2 to 16 weeks) 
continued until the serum calcium concentration  was = 10 mg/dL, the subject had reached the highest 
dose (90 mg QID), or adverse events precluded further dose increases. 
Treatment with cinacalcet produced a reduction in serum calcium by  =1mg/dl for 15/21 patients with 
parathyroid carcinoma and for 6/8 with intractable primary HPT. Mean reductions were 14% and 12% 
in the parathyroid carcinoma and intractable primary HPT groups, respectively.  
Individual  fluctuations  of  the  serum  calcium  levels  were  noted  during  treatment  in  the  parathyroid 
carcinoma patients. Upon CHMP request, the Applicant has clarified that the calcium levels in 9 out of 
10 patients with parathyroid cancer remained below the baseline values during the cinacalcet titration 
and maintenance phases. The increase in the mean serum calcium concentration in 3/10 patients of ‡
 1 
mg/dL  during  the  maintenance  phase  as  compared  to  the  end  of  the  titration  phase  remains 
unexplained.  As  a  consequence  of  this  discussion,  a  recommendation  in  the  SPC  has  been  included, 
informing that if clinically relevant reductions in serum calcium are not maintained during treatment in 
parathyroid cancer, discontinuation of therapy should be considered.  
As discussed by the CHMP, no consistent trend in the PTH levels could be seen during treatment in 
the  few  patients  included  in  the  study  with  intractable  primary  HPT  and  in  some  of  the  patients  an 
increase  was  noted.  Overall,  the  information  regarding  use  of  cinacalcet  in  intractable  primary 
hyperparathyroidism remains extremely limited and the data on the few patie nts available is somewhat 
patchy and not fully consistent.  
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  Applicant  has  convincingly  demonstrated  the  capacity  of  cinacalcet  to  reduce  iPTH  levels  in 
patients with secondary HPT in CKD with ESRD. The effect is sustained over time and is consistent 
in different subgroups and in different degrees of disease severity. Importantly, the reduction of iPTH 
is accompanied by moderate but significant and consistent reductions in calcium, phosphate and CaxP 
product levels. The  size and general design of the studies on the efficacy of cinacalcet in the treatment 
of  secondary  HPT  in  patients  with  CKD  being  on  dialysis  is  judged  to  be  adequate.  The  primary 
biochemical  end-point  focused  at  is  considered  to  be  a  relevant  surrogate  marker,  which  is  used  in 
clinical routine today to balance currently available therapy for secondary HPT in CKD  
Considering  that  cinacalcet  represents  a  new  treatment  principle,  further  clinical  trials  should  be 
conducted to more fully understand the effects of improved control of laboratory markers of secondary 
HPT  on  more  obviously  important  endpoints  (bone  morphology,  fracture  incidences,  extraskeletal 
calcium  deposits,  need  for  parathyroidectomy,  other  symptoms  and  signs  associated  with  secondary 
HPT).  Support  for  efficacy  in  these  respects  is  also  important  in  consideration  of  the  suspected 
increase in the incidence of “adynamic bone disease” in ESRD patients within the western society, the 
clinical  consequences  of  which  are  largely  unknown,  but  which  has been suggested to be associated 
with  increased  extraskeletal  calcification.  It  has  been  suggested  that  the  treatment  possibilities  for 
secondary  HPT  in  CKD  (more  effective  phosphate  binders,  active  vitamin  D)  that  have  become 
available during recent years have contributed to a shift from the classical high turnover bone pathology 
(osteitis  fibrosa)  towards  a  low  turn-over  bone  pathology  (“adynamic  bone  disease”).  Thus,  there  is 
29/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
today  some  concern  for  the  possible  risks  associated  with  “over-treatment”  of  secondary  HPT  in 
CKD.  
The  data  on  bone  health  related  parameters  during  cinacalcet  treatment  is  limited  in  this  application 
excluding  conclusions  that  can  be  regarded  as  well  supported.  However,  the  sparse  data  available 
provide some limited support for the assumption that cinacalcet treatment may improve bone health in 
secondary HPT in ESRD patients. This should be confirmed in further long-term studies, which should 
also focus on effects on vascular and cardiac calcifications 
It  seems  plausible  that  cinacalcet  is  able  to  reduce  elevated  iPTH  levels  also  in  predialytic  CKD 
patients.  However,  the  small  number  of  patients,  the  relatively  short  observation  times,  and  the 
apparent lack of adequate background treatment hamper the interpretation of these findings. Clinically 
relevant effects of cinacalcet treatment initiated in predialytic CKD patients have not been acceptably 
demonstrated,  especially  since  PTH  targets  in  these  patients  are  even  less  well  validated  than  in  the 
ESRD population, and as safety aspects (including bone safety) associated with long-term treatment in 
this patient group are insufficiently elucidated. 
Therefore  it  is  concluded  that  in  CKD  patients  with  secondary  HPT  not  undergoing  dialysis,  there  is 
limited data from short-term studies indicating that cinacalcet reduces PTH levels to a similar extent as 
in patients with secondary HPT receiving dialysis. Additionally, the existing limited experience suggests 
that  CKD  patients  not  undergoing  dialysis  have  an  increased  risk  for  hypocalcaemia compared with 
CKD  patients  receiving  dialysis,  which  may  be  due  to  lower  baseline  calcium  levels.  There  are  no 
clinical data to support an indication in prevention of secondary HPT. 
The submitted studies are deemed to provide sufficient evidence for a modest capacity of cinacalcet to 
reduce  serum  calcium  levels  in  patients  with  parathyroid  carcinoma.  In  individual  patients  rather 
impressive  reductions  seem  to  be  achievable.  In  light  of  the  lack  of  pharmacological  therapeutic 
alternatives  for  the  long-term management of hypercalcaemia in this small group of often severely ill 
patients,  cinacalcet  is  recommended  for  approval  provided  that  the  Applicant  commits  to  regularly 
report  the  results  of  the  ongoing  study  20000204  and  if  a  continuous  close  surveilla nce of treatment 
results in these patients can be accomplished. 
The results in treatment of intractable primary HPT are difficult to interpret due to the few included 
patients  (n=8).  Overall,  the  information  regarding  use  of  cinacalcet  in  intractable  primary 
hyperparathyroidism  remains  extremely  limited  and  the  data  on  the  few  patients  available  are 
somewhat  patchy  and  not  fully  consistent.  The  target  population  remains  incompletely  defined  and 
would, in clinical practice, be influenced by variations in surgical practice and experience, attitudes as 
regards operability etc. Some wording in section 5.1 regarding the limited experience gained has been 
included. 
Clinical safety 
The cinacalcet clinical program consists of 47 studies in healthy volunteers and  subjects with primary 
and secondary HPT conducted between December 1997 and June 2003.  The clinical trials supporting 
this submission were conducted in the US, Europe, Canada, and Australia.  The primary focus of the 
clinical  programme  was  on  the  development  of  cinacalcet  for  the  treatment  of  secondary  HPT  in 
patients with CKD. 
• 
Patient exposure 
Overall total cincalcet exposure is summarised in the following table  
Cinacalcet 
At least one dose 
1,749 
At least 26 weeks 
732 
At least 52 weeks 
325 
30/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo 
774 
493 
196 
Exposure  to  cinacalcet  was  in  accordance  with  guidance  from  Health  Authorities  and  International 
Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) guidelines, which recommend that exposure to study drug be at 
least  1500  subjects  for  ‡
 6  months,  and  at  least  100  subjects  for 
 12 months.    The  number  of  subjects  within  each  of  these  exposure  categories  for  cinacalcet  was 
 1 dose,  at  least  600 subjects for  ‡
1749, 732, and 325, respectively. 
A  total  of  1136  subjects  with  secondary  HPT  and  ESRD  were  enrolled  in  the 3 key phase 3 studies 
(471  placebo,  665  cinacalcet).  These  studies  included  a  titration  phase  followed  by  an  efficacy-
assessment phase and were 26 weeks in duration. 
Overall  exposure  to  cinacalcet  in  the  phase  3  ESRD  clinical  program  ranged  from  < 1 to  58 (mean 
25.1) weeks.  Subject exposure was greatest at the starting dose of ‡
 30 to < 60 mg, with 713 subjects 
exposed  to  this  dose  at  least  once  and  218 subjects receiving this dose range as their most frequent 
daily  dose.  The  highest  dose,  180 mg,  was  received at least once by 277 subjects and was the most 
frequent daily dose in 176 subjects. 
The duration of the studies in subjects with CKD not receiving dialysis was shorter than in the ESRD 
studies,  with  exposure  ranging  from  1  to  19  (mean  15)  weeks  in  study  20010239  and  from  3  to  17 
(mean 16) weeks in study 20000236.  Consistent with milder secondary HPT in CRI, the most frequent 
dosing  in  subjects  with  CKD  not  receiving  dialysis  was  lower  than  that  in  subjects  with  ESRD. 
Subjects  with  CKD  not  receiving  dialysis  were  exposed  to  each  cinacalcet  dose  level  and  9%  of 
subjects titrated to the highest daily dose (180 mg) 
• 
Adverse events  
During  the  pooled  6-month  phase  3  studies  in  ESRD  patients,  1,126  subjects  (470  placebo,  656 
cinacalcet) received study drug and were evaluable for safety.  Treatment related (as assigned by the 
investigator) adverse events were more common among the cinacalcet treated patients. However, the 
incidences  of  all  adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  and  deaths  were  similar  between  the 
cinacalcet and placebo groups, see table below: 
Subjects evaluable for safety 
All adverse events 
Serious adverse events 
All treatment-related adverse events  
   Related serious adverse events 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Deaths on study  
Placebo 
(N = 470) 
n (%) 
 470 
 440 (94) 
 148 (31) 
 116 (25) 
   5 (1) 
  37 (8) 
  15 (3) 
Cinacalcet 
(N = 656) 
n (%) 
 656 
 599 (91) 
 187 (29) 
 283 (43) 
  20 (3) 
  96 (15) 
  14 (2) 
In the pooled phase 3 studies, the subject incidence of adverse events considered by the investigator to 
be  related  to  treatment  was  25%  in  the  placebo  group  and  43%  in  the  cinacalcet  group.  Adverse 
31/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
‡
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
events  occurring  more  frequently  in  the  cinacalcet  group  compared  to  placebo,  and  included  on  the 
SPC  as  at  least  possibly  attributable  to  cinacalcet  are  included  in  the  table  below.  As  discussed  in 
relation  to  the  CHMP  questions  the  mechanisms  behind  the  GI  associated  adverse  events  are 
unknown. However, these reactions are often transient and commonly of mild or moderate severity. 
32/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
Subject incidence of adverse events 
Placebo 
(N = 470) 
Cinacalcet 
(N = 656) 
Preferred Term 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Myalgia 
Dizziness  
Dyspepsia 
Asthenia 
Anorexia 
Paraesthesia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Rash 
Convulsions 
91 (19) 
69 (15) 
64 (14) 
36 (8) 
36 (8) 
17 (4) 
19 (4) 
5 (1) 
6 (1) 
4 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
204 (31) 
178 (27) 
98 (15) 
64 (10) 
50 (8) 
44 (7) 
40 (6) 
25 (4) 
27 (4) 
19 (3) 
8 (1) 
Hypocalcaemia  
To evaluate whether episodes of low serum calcium levels were associated with clinical symptoms, a 
list  of  adverse  events  potentially  associated  with  hypocalcaemia  was  defined.  These  include 
paresthesias,  myalgias,  cramping,  tetany  and  convulsions.  The  subject  incidence  of  these  events  was 
similar  between  treatment  groups  in  the  ESRD  studies,  with  only  paresthesia  (1%  placebo,  4% 
cinacalcet),  asthenia  (4%  placebo,  7%  cinacalcet)  occurring  with  a  >1%  greater  frequency  in  the 
cinacalcet  group.    Overall,  adverse  events  potentially  associated  with  hypocalcaemia  did  not  differ 
between treatment groups and  were generally mild to moderate in severity, transient, and rarely led to 
study withdrawal. 
In the pooled phase 3 studies, < 1% of calcium measurements in the placebo group and 4% of calcium 
measurements  in  the  cinacalcet  group  were  <  7.5  mg/dL.    The  cumulative  subject  incidence  of  2 
consecutive serum calcium measurements < 7.5 mg/dL was < 1% in the placebo group and 5% in the 
cinacalcet group.  Including data from the long-term extension study, the weekly subject incidence of 
serum  calcium  levels  <  7.5  mg/dL  was  relatively  constant  over  52  weeks.  Confirmed  low  serum 
calcium  concentrations  were  generally  managed  by  adjustments  in  the  dose  of  cinacalcet,  vitamin  D 
sterols or calcium-containing phosphate binders. The results from the studies in subjects with CKD not 
receiving  dialysis  suggested  that  treatment-related  hypocalcaemia  was  more  common  as  compared 
with the ESRD population. 
The SPC states that serum calcium levels are to be monitored frequently, within 1 week of initiation or 
dose adjustment of cinacalcet. Once the maintenance dose has been established, serum calcium should 
be  measured  approximately  monthly.  If  serum  calcium  levels  decrease  below  the  normal  range, 
appropriate steps should be taken. These steps are well described in the SPC.  
Convulsions  
In the phase 3 ESRD studies, adverse events of convulsions (including convulsions, convulsions local 
and status epilepticus) were reported in 11 cinacalcet treated patients, as compared with 2 on placebo. 
Five of the 11 on cinacalcet and one of the two on placebo had low calcium levels near the time of the 
event.  It  cannot  be  excluded  that  the  few  observed  reactions  of  convulsions  are  partly  due  to  other 
mechanisms  than  hypocalcemia,.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  carefully  follow  the  incidence  of 
33/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
convulsions  in  ongoing  and  planned  clinical  studies  and  in  spontaneous  reporting  as  a  part  of  regular 
post-marketing surveillance. 
Cataracts 
The  pre-clinical  program  showed  an  increased  incidence  of  cataracts  in  rodents.  Specific 
ophthalmological examinations were included in study 990120, a phase 2 study of 1-year duration.  No 
increase in incidence of either hypocalcaemic cataracts or senile cataracts was observed for patients 
treated  with  cinacalcet.    In  addition,  results  from  the  pooled  6-month  phase  3  studies  showed  an 
incidence of cataracts of < 1% (1 subject) in the placebo group and < 1% (1 subject) in the cinacalcet 
group, suggesting no relationship between cinacalcet treatment and cataract formation. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The  overall  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  in  the  three  Phase  3  ESRD  studies  was  similar 
between treatment groups (31% placebo, 29% cinacalcet). The most common serious adverse events 
included (placebo, cinacalcet) vascular access thrombosis (2%, 2%), pneumonia (2%, 2%), sepsis (2%, 
2%),  and  non-cardiac  chest  pain  (<1%,  2%).    These  events  occurred  at  similar  incidences  in  the 
placebo  and  cinacalcet  groups.  The  same  pattern  of  severe  adverse  events  were  recorded  in  the  6 
month placebo-controlled extension study (20010240). 
In  the  6-month  ESRD  phase  3  studies,  15  (3%)  subjects  receiving  placebo  and  14  (2%)  subjects 
receiving  cinacalcet  died;  none  of  these  deaths  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to be related to 
study drug.  The causes of death were similar between the cinacalcet and placebo groups. Ten and 9 
subjects (placebo, cinacalcet) in each treatment group (2%, 1%) died from cardiovascular causes. 
In  the  6-month  extension  study  20010240,  7  (5%) deaths occurred in the placebo group and 4 (3%) 
deaths occurred in the cinacalcet group.  Six deaths in the placebo group were cardiovascular in nature 
compared  with  3  in  the  cinacalcet  group.  In  the  studies  in  subjects  with  CKD  not  receiving  dialysis 
(20000236 and 20010239) two subjects (7%) who received placebo died and none of the patients on 
cinacalcet. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory values in the phase 3 studies were typical for the ESRD population. Other than the 
effects on PTH, serum calcium and phosphorus levels in the cinacalcet group, no notable differences 
between  treatment  groups  were  seen  for  measures  of  liver  and  kidney  function,  haematology,  or 
electrolytes.  No  significant  changes  were  noted  during  the  study  in  either  group,  for  glucose, 
hemoglobin A1c, total protein, uric acid, total cholesterol, lactate dehydrogenase, and triglycerides. 
Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured at baseline, week 16, week 26, and at the end of 
study  in  the  principal  CKD  studies.    No  clinically important differences in either systolic pressure or 
diastolic pressure were apparent during this interval. 
The  possible  effects  of  cinacalcet  on  ECG  were  extensively  and sufficiently  evaluated in the clinical 
study programme,  and it can be concluded that cinacalcet appears to have no direct effect on the QTc 
interval.  
Testosterone Levels 
A more pronounced reduction of median testosterone levels was noted among the cinacalcet treated 
patients  (median  reductions  31%  and  16%  in  the  cinacalcet  and  placebo  groups  after  26  weeks, 
respectively). A description of this side effect, for which the mechanism and clinical significance are 
unknown,  has  been  included  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  a  long-term 
follow up of the testosterone levels in cinacalcet treated ESRD patients. 
•  Safety in primary hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid cancer subjects. 
34/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety profile of cinacalcet was similar across the 5 studies in primary HPT (n = 151).  Overall, 
common adverse events observed  in these studies included gastrointestinal events (nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal  pain),  headache,  paresthesia,  anxiety,  asthenia,  dizziness,  and  arthralgia.    Most  adverse 
events were mild to moderate in severity.  The most common event considered related to  cinacalcet 
was  nausea,  which  was  also  the  most  common  adverse  event  leading  to  withdrawal.    The  safety 
profile of cinacalcet in this subject population was generally consistent with that in subjects with CKD 
and no unique safety concern was identified for cinacalcet in the treatment of primary HPT. 
However,  the  limited  safety  data  for  the  target  population  must  be  taken  into  account,  althoughthe 
rarity of parathyroid cancer is acknowledged..  
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Withdrawals due to adverse events in the ESRD studies occurred in 8% of subjects receiving placebo 
compared  with  15%  of  subjects  receiving  cinacalcet.  The  difference  in  withdrawal  rates  between 
treatment groups was mainly due to different rates of gastrointestinal symptoms; nausea (1% and 5% 
in the placebo and cinacalcet treatment groups, respectively), vomiting (< 1%, 4%, placebo, cinacalcet), 
diarrhoea (< 1%, 2%), and abdominal pain (< 1%, 2%). Similar differences were seen in the 6-month 
extension study 20010240 and in the studies in subjects with CKD not receiving dialysis. 
In the pooled phase 3 ESRD dataset, 53% of placebo and 64% of cinacalcet subjects experienced at 
least one gastrointestinal adverse event 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
From  a  clinical  point  of  view  the  safety of cinacalcet treatment in secondary HPT in ESRD patients 
has  essentially  been  sufficiently  documented  in  a  fairly  large  number  of  patients.  Exposure  to 
cinacalcet in the key CKD studies (3 phase III ESRD studies and 2 Phase II studies in subjects with 
CKD not receiving dialysis) was adequate to evaluate safety in subjects across all dose levels. 
A higher incidence of nausea and vomiting among the cinacalcet treated patients was analysed. This 
was  considered  of  some  clinical  relevance  in  this  population,  which  often  suffers  from  an  impaired 
quality of life and where nausea and gastrointestinal symptoms are common.  
Additionally, the changes in body weight over time in the two treatment groups in the pivotal phase III 
studies in secondary HPT in ESRD were compared. Reassuring data have been provided that seem to 
demonstrate that treatment with cinacalcet was not associated with a loss of weight. 
The  more  pronounced  reduction  of  median  testosterone  levels  noted  among  the  cinacalcet  treated 
patients  has  been  analysed,  and  a  long-term follow up of the testosterone levels in cinacalcet treated 
ESRD patients has been proposed by the Applicant. 
An increased incidence of convulsions during cinacalcet treatment was reported. The conclusion that 
hypocalcemia  is  associated  with  an  increased  risk  for  convulsions  seems  uncontroversial.  Although 
preclinical  and  clinical  safety  data  seem  to  indicate  that  there  may  be  a  decreased  threshold  for 
seizures  that  may  be  independent  of  the  calcium  levels,  if  such  a  risk  exists,  it does not seem to be 
great  and  it  is  adequately  addressed  in  the    SPC.  Collection  of  further  data  from  the  on-going and 
planned clinical studies will be carried out. 
The SPC states that serum calcium levels are to be monitored frequently, within 1 week  of initiation or 
dose adjustment of cinacalcet. Once the maintenance dose has been established, serum calcium should 
be  measured  approximately  monthly.  If  serum  calcium  levels  decrease  below  the  normal  range, 
appropriate steps should be taken. These steps are well described in the SPC.  
The safety data obtained from the studies in parathyroid cancer and primary hyperparathyroidism were 
consistent  with  the  data  obtained  in  ESRD  patients  with  the  most  common  adverse  events  being 
nausea,  vomiting,  anorexia  and  asthenia.  The  low  number  of  patients  included  in  the  on-going study 
20000204, which is designed to reflect the target population, is a matter of concern, although the rarity 
35/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  parathyroid  cancer  is  acknowledged.The  Applicant  commits  to  provide  the  CHMP  with  future 
results from study 20000204.  
36/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemic al  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  showed  that  cinacalcet  acts  as  an  allosteric  modulator  of  the 
calcium-sensing receptor on the parathyroid cell surface. This modulation leads to increase sensitivity 
of  the  receptor  to  extracellular  calcium,  which  results  in  a  reduction  of  circulating  PTH 
concentrations.Several in vitro  and in vivo pharmacology models assessed the activity of cinacalcet in 
hyperparathyroidism. 
The  general  pharmacology  studies  are  appropriate to support the non-clinical pharmacology profile of 
cinacalcet. Safety pharmacology studies have not given rise to any serious safety concerns. However, 
the occurrence of non-tolerable hypocalcaemia  at exposure levels close to the clinical exposure limits 
the possibility to establish appropriate safety margins.  In particular, the possibility of adverse effects 
due to secondary pharmacology cannot be entirely excluded and the applicant has been requested to 
perform further non-clinical studies to address this. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, mice, rats, dogs and monkeys were the most relevant species 
for non-clinical efficacy and safety studies. The non-clinical pharmacokinetics properties for cinacalcet 
have  been  appropriately  described.  A  number  of  studies  concerning  the  absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism, and excretion of cinacalcet have been performed. The studies were carried out with the 
oral formulation, which is the proposed clinical route of administration. Cinacalcet is well absorbed in all 
studied species, but showed low oral bioavailability. It is widely distributed in all tissues, and excreted 
into  milk  of  lactating  rats.  It  also  crossed  the  placental  barrier  in  rabbits.  Cinacalcet  is  extensively 
metabolised, appearing CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 as the major contributors involved. 
Overall, the toxicology programme did not raise any serious safety concerns. Dogs and monkeys were 
chosen as non-rodent species for use in toxicology programme. 
Adequate  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed,  and  did  not  reveal  special 
concerns. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  cinacalcet  to  reduce  iPTH  levels  in  patients  with  secondary  hyperparathyroidism  in 
patients  with  end-stage  renal  disease  (ESRD)  on  maintenance  dialysis  therapy  has  been  established. 
The  effect  is  sustained  over  time  and  is  consistent  in  different  subgroups  and  in  different  degrees  of 
disease severity. Importantly, the reduction of iPTH was accompanied by moderate but significant and 
consistency reductions in calcium, phosphate and CaxP product levels.  
Three phase 3 studies, and one additional phase 3 extension study provided placebo-controlled safety 
and  efficacy  evidence  in  patients  with  CKD  being  on  dialysis  and  with  secondary  HPT.  Eligible 
subjects  were  adults  with  ESRD  and  iPTH  >  300  pg/mL  who  were  receiving  HD.    The primary 
biochemical end-point (proportion of subjects achieving a mean pre dose iPTH value = 250 pg/mL) 
is  considered  to  be  a  relevant  surrogate  marker,  which  is  used  in  clinical  routine  today  to  balance 
currently available therapy for secondary HPT in CKD. 
37/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Considering  that  cinacalcet  represents  a  new  treatment  principle,  further  clinical  trials  should  be 
conducted in the future to more fully understand the effects of improved control of laboratory markers 
of  secondary  HPT  on  more  obviously  important  endpoints  such  as  bone  morphology,  fracture 
incidences, extraskeletal calcium deposits, need for parathyroidectomy, and other symptoms and signs 
associated with secondary HPT.  
The submitted studies are deemed to provide sufficient evidence for a modest capacity of cinacalcet to 
reduce  serum  calcium  levels  in  patients  with  parathyroid  carcinoma.  In  individual  patients  rather 
impressive  reductions  seem  to  be  achievable.  In  light  of  the  lack  of  pharmacological  therapeutic 
alternatives  for  the  long-term management of hypercalcaemia in this small group of often severely ill 
patients,  cinacalcet  is  recommended  for  approval  provided  that  the  Applicant  commits  to  regularly 
report  the  results  of  the  ongoing  study  20000204  and  if a continuous close surveillance of treatment 
results in these patients can be accomplished. 
Safety 
From a clinical point of view the safety of cinacalcet treatment in secondary HPT in ESRD patients 
has  essentially  been  sufficiently  documented  in  a  fairly  large  number  of  patients.  Exposure  to 
cinacalcet in the key CKD studies was adequate to evaluate safety in subjects across all dose levels. 
A total of 1136 subjects with secondary HPT and ESRD were enrolled in the 3 key phase 3 studies 
(471  placebo,  665  cinacalcet).  These  studies  included  a  titration  phase  followed  by  an  efficacy-
assessment phase and were 26 weeks in duration. 
The  most  commonly  reported  undesirable  effects  were  nausea  and  vomiting,  occurring  in  31% 
cinacalcet  and  19%  placebo  treated  patients  and  27%  cinacalcet  and  15%  placebo  treated  patients, 
respectively.  Nausea  and  vomiting  were  mild  to  moderate  in  severity  and  transient  in  nature  in  the 
majority  of  patients.  Discontinuation  of  therapy  as  a  result  of  undesirable  effects  was  mainly  due to 
nausea (1% placebo; 5% cinacalcet) and vomiting (<1% placebo; 4% cinacalcet). 
The fact that cinacalcet lowers serum calcium has been adequately analysed and reflected in the SPC. 
Patients are to be monitored carefully for the occurrence of hypocalcemia, and if serum calcium levels 
decrease below the normal range, appropriate steps should be taken. 
The safety profile of cinacalcet in patients with parathyroid carcinoma is generally consistent with that 
seen  in  patients  with  chronic  kidney  disease.  The most frequent adverse reactions were nausea and 
vomiting 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following evaluation of the documentation submitted it is concluded that data on pharmaceutical quality 
of the medicinal product is considered acceptable. 
The nonclinical  toxicology and safety pharmacology studies have not given rise to any serious safety 
concerns,  although  appropriate  safety  margins  were  not  established  due  to  the  occurrence  of 
hypocalcaemia at exposure levels close to the clinical exposure.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  cinacalcet  was  rather  extensively  studied  and  is  judged  to  be  sufficiently 
characterised. 
Overall, the clinical programme for cinacalcet in treatment of secondary HPT in ESRD patients is to 
be  regarded  as  rather  extensive  and  sufficient  for  an  approval.  The  Applicant  has  convincingly 
demonstrated the capacity of cinacalcet to reduce iPTH levels in patients with secondary HPT in CKD 
with  ESRD  treated  with  maintenance  dialysis.  The  effect  is  sustained  over  time  and  is  consistent  in 
different  subgroups  and  in  different  disease  severity  categories.  Nevertheless,  more  data  from  bone 
38/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
health related parameters during cinacalcet treatment will need to be provided through post-marketing 
studies. 
With regard to the use of cinacalcet in patients with parathyroid carcinoma, and considering the lack of 
therapeutic  alternatives  for  the  long-term  management  of  hypercalcaemia  in  this  small  group,  the 
CHMP concluded that there is sufficient evidence for a modest capacity of cinacalcet to reduce serum 
calcium  levels  in  these  patients,  while  close  surveillance  of  treatment  results  in  these  patients  will  be 
accomplished. Additionally individual impressive reductions on serum calcium levels were reported. 
The  safety  of  cinacalcet  treatment  in  the  intended  population  has  essentially  been  sufficiently 
documented  in  a  fairly  large  number  of  patients,  and  the  tolerability  profile  of  cinacalcet  seems 
acceptable. Therefore, taking all these considerations into account the CHMP was of the opinion that a 
positive benefit/risk can be concluded. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of cinacalcet in the treatment of “secondary hyperparathyroidism 
in  patients  with  end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy. Cinacalcet may be 
used  as  part  of  a  therapeutic  regimen  including  phosphate  binders  and/or  Vitamin  D  sterols,  as 
appropriate. Reduction of hypercalcaemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma” was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
39/39 
ª EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
