EMA/515057/2017  
EMEA/H/C/000570 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mimpara 
cinacalcet 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mimpara. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Mimpara. 
For practical information about using Mimpara, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist.  
What is Mimpara and what is it used for? 
Mimpara is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
secondary hyperparathyroidism (overactive parathyroid glands) in adults and children aged 3 years 
and older with serious kidney disease who need dialysis (to clear their blood of waste products).  
•  hypercalcaemia (high blood calcium levels) in adults with cancer of the parathyroid glands or with 
primary hyperparathyroidism when the parathyroid glands cannot be removed. 
In hyperparathyroidism, the parathyroid glands in the neck produce too much parathyroid hormone 
(PTH), which can lead to high levels of blood calcium, bone and joint pain and deformities of the arms 
and legs. ‘Secondary’ means that it is caused by another condition (serious kidney disease) while 
‘primary’ means there is no other cause. 
Mimpara contains the active substance cinacalcet.  
How is Mimpara used? 
Mimpara is available as tablets and as granules in capsules, to be taken with food or shortly after a 
meal. The capsules should not be swallowed whole but should be opened and the granules sprinkled in 
food or liquid.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism, the recommended starting dose for adults is 30 mg 
once a day, while in children the daily starting dose depends on the child’s weight. The dose is 
adjusted, according to the patient’s PTH and calcium levels. 
In patients with hypercalcaemia who also have parathyroid gland cancer or primary 
hyperparathyroidism, the recommended starting dose of Mimpara for adults is 30 mg twice a day. The 
dose of Mimpara should be increased every two to four weeks up to 90 mg three or four times a day as 
necessary to reduce blood calcium to normal levels. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information see the package leaflet. 
How does Mimpara work? 
The active substance in Mimpara, cinacalcet, is a calcimimetic agent. This means that it mimics the 
action of calcium in the body. Cinacalcet works by increasing the sensitivity of the calcium-sensing 
receptors on the parathyroid glands that regulate parathyroid hormone secretion. By increasing the 
sensitivity of these receptors, cinacalcet leads to a reduction in the production of PTH by the 
parathyroid glands. The reduction in PTH levels also leads to a decrease in blood calcium levels. 
What benefits of Mimpara have been shown during the studies? 
Secondary hyperparathyroidism 
Mimpara has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in three main studies involving 1,136 
adults with secondary hyperparathyroidism who were on dialysis because they had a serious kidney 
disease. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who had a parathyroid 
hormone level below 250 micrograms per litre after 6 months.  
In these studies, about 40% of the patients taking Mimpara had parathyroid hormone levels below 250 
micrograms per litre, compared with about 6% of those taking placebo. Mimpara brought about a 42% 
reduction in average PTH levels compared with an increase of 8% in patients taking placebo. 
In children, Mimpara was compared with placebo in a study involving 43 children aged 6 to 18 years 
with serious kidney disease. The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction of PTH levels by 
30%. In this study, 55% (12 out of 22) children given Mimpara achieved a 30% reduction of PTH 
levels, compared with 19% (4 out of 21) children given placebo.  
Parathyroid gland cancer or primary hyperparathyroidism 
Mimpara has been studied in a study involving 46 patients with hypercalcaemia, including 29 with 
parathyroid cancer, and 17 with primary hyperparathyroidism who could not have their parathyroid 
glands removed or in whom surgery to remove the parathyroid glands was not effective. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose blood calcium levels fell by more than 1 
mg per decilitre by the time a maintenance dose had been found (between two and 16 weeks after the 
start of the study). The study continued for over three years. Mimpara produced a decrease in blood 
calcium of more than 1 mg/dl in 62% of the cancer patients (18 out of 29) and in 88% of the patients 
with primary hyperparathyroidism (15 out of 17). 
A further three studies compared Mimpara with placebo in a total of 136 patients with primary 
hyperparathyroidism over up to a year. Of these, 45 went on to a fourth, long-term study looking at 
Mimpara  
EMA/515057/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
the effectiveness of Mimpara over a total of almost six years. The results supported the use of Mimpara 
for hypercalcaemia in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. 
What are the risks associated with Mimpara? 
The most common side effects with Mimpara (in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea (feeling sick) 
and vomiting.  
Mimpara must not be used in patients with hypocalcaemia (low blood calcium levels). For the full list of 
side effects and restrictions of Mimpara, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Mimpara approved? 
Studies showed that Mimpara was effective in both adults and children at reducing levels of 
parathyroid hormone in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism who were undergoing dialysis for 
kidney disease. In addition, Mimpara reduced high calcium levels in the majority of patients with 
parathyroid gland cancer or primary hyperparathyroidism.  
With regard to the medicine’s safety, side effects seen in patients are considered manageable. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore concluded that Mimpara’s benefits outweigh the risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mimpara? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mimpara have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Mimpara 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mimpara on 22 October 2004. 
The full EPAR for Mimpara can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Mimpara, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017.  
Mimpara  
EMA/515057/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
