SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR MINJUVI 
(TAFASITAMAB) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for MINJUVI. The RMP details 
important risks of MINJUVI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about MINJUVI 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
MINJUVI 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how MINJUVI should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for MINJUVI should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of MINJUVI's 
RMP. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
I 
MINJUVI is authorised in combination with lenalidomide followed by MINJUVI monotherapy 
for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma (DLBCL), who are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) (see 
SmPC for the full indication). It contains tafasitamab as the active substance and it is given by 
intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of MINJUVI’s benefits can be found in MINJUVI’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage. 
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of MINJUVI together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about MINJUVI's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine's packaging;
• The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
•  The medicine's legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of MINJUVI is not yet available, it is listed 
under 'missing information' below. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
II.A 
Important risks of MINJUVI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of MINJUVI.  Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Use in patients with recent use of B-cell depleting drugs or 
chemotherapy 
Long-term safety  
II.B 
Important Potential Risk: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Summary of Important Risks 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
There were no cases of treatment-emergent progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy reported in the clinical development 
programme for tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide. 
One case of worsening of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy was reported, and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy due to reactivation of the JC virus has been 
reported for other B-cell depleting therapies (eg, MabThera® 
SmPC 2021).  Cases of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy have also been reported with lenalidomide 
(Revlimid® SmPC 2020). 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in general occurs in 
patients with suppressed cellular immunity.  Cases of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy reported in patients taking 
 
 
 
lenalidomide were generally in patients taking concomitant 
dexamethasone or prior treatment with other immunosuppressive 
chemotherapy (Revlimid® SmPC 2020).  
There are currently no known risk groups or risk factors for the 
development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
whose consideration would lead to practicable preventative 
measures. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
Not applicable 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Not applicable 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status:  restricted medical prescription 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.6, 5.3 
PL section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Treatment with tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide 
should not be initiated in female patients unless pregnancy 
has been excluded (SmPC Section 4.6). 
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective 
contraception during treatment with tafasitamab and for at 
least 3 months after end of treatment (SmPC Section 4.6). 
Advise patients to notify their doctor if they become pregnant 
or intend to become pregnant during tafasitamab therapy as 
may it may cause harm to the unborn baby (SmPC section 4.6 
and PL Section 2).  In case of exposure during pregnancy, 
which may cause B-cell depletion in the fetus, newborns 
should be monitored for B-cell depletion and vaccinations 
with live virus vaccines should be postponed until the infant’s 
B-cell count has recovered (SmPC section 4.6). 
Tafasitamab is administered in combination with 
lenalidomide for up to 12 cycles.  Lenalidomide can cause 
 
 
 
 
embryo-foetal harm and is contraindicated for use in 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential unless all 
of the conditions of the lenalidomide pregnancy prevention 
programme are met (SmPC Section 4.6). 
Use of effective contraception during treatment with 
tafasitamab and for at least 3 months after end of treatment is 
recommended for women of reproductive potential (PL 
Section 2).  
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None  
Missing information: Use in patients with recent use of B-cell depleting drugs or 
chemotherapy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC sections 4.4 
PL section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Monitor complete blood counts throughout treatment and 
prior to administration of each treatment cycle.  Cytopenia 
may require a delay, dose reduction, or discontinuation of 
lenalidomide and/or a delay or discontinuation of 
tafasitamab (SmPC Section 4.4). 
Advise patients to report signs or symptoms of fever or 
other evidence of potential infection, such as chills, cough or 
pain on urination, or signs or symptoms of bruising or 
bleeding immediately (SmPC Section 4.4).  
Patients are advised to inform their doctor immediately of 
any signs of a fever of 38 degrees Celcius or above, chills, 
cough or pain on urination, or any signs of bruising or 
bleeding (PL Section 2).  
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
Not applicable 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Legal status: restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study MOR208C204 (B-MIND) is a Phase II/III Randomised, 
Multicentre Study of MOR00208/tafasitamab with Bendamustine 
versus Rituximab with Bendamustine in Patients with Relapsed or 
Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (R/R DLBCL) Who 
Are Not Eligible for High Dose Chemotherapy (HDC) and 
Autologous Stem-Cell Transplantation (ASCT). 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Single-arm study of tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in DLBCL (Study 
TBD): In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of tafasitamab in combination with 
lenalidomide in diffuse Large B-cell lymphoma in patients not eligible for ASCT, the MAH shall 
conduct and submit the results of a single-arm study of tafasitamab in combination with 
lenalidomide in the approved indication according to an agreed protocol. 
Study MOR208C310 (front-MIND): A phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial comparing the efficacy and safety of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in 
addition to R-CHOP versus R-CHOP in previously untreated, high-intermediate and high-risk 
patients with newly-diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). 
Rationale and study objectives: 
To compare the efficacy and safety of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP 
versus R-CHOP in previously untreated, high-intermediate and high-risk patients with newly-
diagnosed DLBCL. 
Primary Objective: 
•  To compare the efficacy of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus 
tafasitamab placebo, lenalidomide placebo and R-CHOP. 
 
 
 
Secondary Objectives: 
•  To compare the efficacy (additional parameters) of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in 
addition to R-CHOP versus R-CHOP. 
•  To compare the safety of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus R-
CHOP. 
•  To compare the efficacy of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus 
R-CHOP in DLBCL subtypes of COO assessed by Hans-classifier and gene expression 
profiling (GEP). 
•  To compare the efficacy of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus 
R-CHOP in DLBCL subtypes: DLBCL not otherwise specified (NOS) versus HGBL 
versus other. 
•  To compare the incidence of central nervous system (CNS) relapse in patients receiving 
tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus R-CHOP. 
•  To assess patient-reported outcomes (PRO) in patients receiving tafasitamab plus 
lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus R-CHOP. 
•  To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of tafasitamab. 
•  To assess the potential immunogenicity of tafasitamab. 
•  To assess the role of baseline NK cell count (NKCC) as a predictor of response. 
Study design: 
This is a parallel arm, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center, randomized, phase 3 study 
to investigate the efficacy and safety of tafasitamab plus lenalidomide as add-on therapy to R-
CHOP (experimental arm) vs. R-CHOP (control arm). The stratification factors are: 
• 
International Prognostic Index (IPI): IPI status 3 (IPI 3) (> 60 years old)/age-adjusted (aa) 
IPI 2 (≤ 60 years old) vs. IPI 4-5 (> 60 years old)/aaIPI 3 (≤ 60 years old). 
•  Geographic Regions (Europe, United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand versus 
Asia versus the Rest of World [3 groups]). The total expected duration of the study from 
first patient’s first visit (FPFV) to last patient’s last visit (LPLV) is approximately 5 
years. 
Study population: 
Patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated, high-intermediate or high-risk DLBCL. 
Milestones: 
First Patient First Visit – April 2021 
Enrollment completion – June 2023  
Primary analysis results – June 2025  
Final clinical study report – December 2025 
 
 
 
 
Study MOR208C204 (B-MIND) is a Phase II/III Randomised, Multicentre Study of 
MOR00208/tafasitamab with Bendamustine versus Rituximab with Bendamustine in Patients 
with Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (R/R DLBCL) Who Are Not 
Eligible for High Dose Chemotherapy (HDC) and Autologous Stem-Cell Transplantation 
(ASCT). 
In Study MOR208C204, treatment with study drugs (tafasitamab with bendamustine or 
rituximab with bendamustine) is offered in 28-day cycles at specified time points at protocol-
prescribed dose levels for a maximum of six cycles.  Thereafter, patients with at least partial 
response at the end of Cycle 6, as per local disease response assessment, continue antibody 
monotherapy treatment until disease progression. Thus, the antibody treatment may vary 
individually.  Treatment may be stopped due to recurrence/disease progression, unacceptable 
toxicity, death or discontinuation for any other reason, whichever comes first. 
Rationale and study objectives: 
This is a randomised, open-label clinical trial to compare the safety and efficacy of MOR00208 
with bendamustine versus rituximab with bendamustine, an accepted standard of care for this 
patient population. 
Primary Objective: 
•  To determine the efficacy of a combination of MOR00208 with bendamustine versus 
a combination of rituximab with bendamustine in terms of progression-free survival in: 
o  Adult patients with R-R DLBCL (overall population)  
o  A subgroup of adult patients with R-R DLBCL with low baseline peripheral blood 
NK-cell count, defined as 100 or less NK cells per μl blood at baseline. 
Secondary Objectives: 
•  To determine and compare both study arms, MOR00208 with bendamustine versus 
rituximab with bendamustine, for the overall population and NKCC-low subgroup in 
terms of:  
a)  best objective response rate based on the best response achieved at any time 
during the study  
b)  duration of response  
c)  overall survival 
d)  disease control rate 
e)  time to progression 
f)  time to next treatment 
g)  safety, based on the frequency, incidence and severity of adverse events 
h)  quality of life 
•  To assess the potential immunogenicity of MOR00208 (anti-MOR00208 antibody 
formation)  
 
 
 
 
•  To assess the pharmacokinetic profile of MOR00208 
Study design: 
Study MOR208C204 is a randomised, two-arm, multicentre, open-label phase II/III efficacy and 
safety study of MOR00208 in combination with bendamustine versus rituximab in combination 
with bendamustine given to adult patients who have relapsed after or are refractory to at least one 
but no more than three prior systemic therapies and have failed, or are not candidates for HDC 
and ASCT, and have thus exhausted their therapeutic options of demonstrated clinical benefit.  
At least one prior therapy line must have included a CD20-targeted therapy (e.g. rituximab). 
Treatment with study drugs (MOR00208 with bendamustine or rituximab with bendamustine) 
will be offered in 28-day cycles at specified time points at protocol-prescribed dose levels for a 
maximum of six cycles. 
Thereafter, patients with a response of at least partial response at the end of Cycle 6, as per local 
disease response assessment, will continue antibody monotherapy treatment (MOR00208 or 
rituximab) in accordance with their original treatment allocation until disease progression.  
Treatment may be stopped due to recurrence/disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death or 
discontinuation for any other reason, whichever comes first.  
In the case of local confirmation of disease recurrence/progression, it is up to the investigator to 
decide according to the individual risk/benefit ratio if the patient should continue further 
antibody treatment (rituximab or MOR00208) in accordance with the initial treatment allocation 
for up to 24 months in total.  
MOR00208 dose: 12 mg/kg intravenously (IV) Cycle 1-3: MOR00208 will be administered on 
Day 1, Day 8, Day 15 and Day 22 of each cycle.  Additionally, a loading dose will be 
administered on Day 4 of Cycle 1.  Cycle 4-until disease progression: MOR00208 will be 
administered on Day 1 and Day 15 of each cycle.  
Rituximab dose: 375 mg/m2 IV  
Rituximab will be administered on Day 1 of each cycle, with a pre-planned treatment interval of 
at least 28-days to the subsequent rituximab administration.  
Bendamustine dose: 90 mg/m2 IV  
Bendamustine will be administered on Days 2+3 of Cycle 1.  Bendamustine administration will 
be repeated on Days 1+2 or Days 2+3 of the subsequent cycles, with a pre-planned treatment 
interval of at least 28-days between the commencements of two succeeding cycles. 
Study population: 
Patients with DLBCL who have relapsed after or are refractory to at least one but no more than 
three prior systemic therapies and have failed, or are not candidates for HDC and ASCT, and 
have thus exhausted their therapeutic options of demonstrated clinical benefit.  
Milestones: 
First Patient First Visit – August 2016 
Enrollment completion – June 2021  
Primary analysis results – September 2024 
 
 
 
Final clinical study report – March 2025 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no other studies required for tafasitamab.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
