EMA/451927/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005436 
Minjuvi (tafasitamab) 
An overview of Minjuvi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Minjuvi and what is it used for? 
Minjuvi is a cancer medicine used first in combination with another medicine called lenalidomide, and 
then on its own, to treat adults with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) whose cancer has returned 
or has stopped responding to other treatments and who cannot have an autologous stem cell 
transplantation (a transplant where the stem cells are collected from the patients themselves).  
DLBCL is rare, and Minjuvi was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
15 January 2015. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3141424. 
Minjuvi contains the active substance tafasitamab. 
How is Minjuvi used? 
Minjuvi can only be obtained with a prescription and must be given by a healthcare professional 
experienced in cancer treatment. The medicine is available as a powder to be made into a solution for 
infusion (drip) into a vein.  
Minjuvi treatment is given over cycles of 28 days, with the infusion given on certain days of each cycle. 
The dose is based on body weight. The doctor may adjust or stop treatment based on the patient’s 
reaction to the infusion. Minjuvi is given with lenalidomide for up to 12 cycles, after which Minjuvi can 
be given alone. Treatment continues until the disease progresses or side effects become unacceptable.  
Patients are also given medicines to reduce the risk of reactions to the infusion before each dose of 
Minjuvi, for at least the first 3 infusions.  
Any infection should be treated before starting treatment with Minjuvi. 
For more information about using Minjuvi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Minjuvi work? 
The active substance in Minjuvi, tafasitamab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that is 
designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure on certain cells in the body. Tafasitamab in 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
particular, was designed to attach to CD19, a protein that is present on the surface of the cancer cells. 
When attached to CD19, the medicine is expected to stimulate the immune system (the body's natural 
defences) to attack and kill the cancer cells and thereby slow down the progression of the disease. 
What benefits of Minjuvi have been shown in studies? 
Minjuvi used in combination with lenalidomide was investigated in a study involving 81 adult patients 
with DLBCL that did not respond to other treatments and who could not have an autologous stem cell 
transplantation. In this study, patients were treated with Minjuvi and lenalidomide for up to 12 cycles 
followed by Minjuvi on its own until the disease progressed or side effects became unmanageable. Of 
the patients involved in the study, 46 (57%) had either a complete response (no sign of cancer) or a 
partial response.  
What are the risks associated with Minjuvi? 
The most common side effects with Minjuvi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are infections, 
neutropenia (low white blood cell count), anaemia (low red blood cell count), thrombocytopaenia (low 
blood platelet count), diarrhoea, weakness, cough, peripheral oedema (swelling especially of the ankles 
and feet), fever and decreased appetite. 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are infection, 
including pneumonia (infection of the lungs), and neutropenia with fever. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Minjuvi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Minjuvi authorised in the EU? 
Patients with DLBCL whose cancer has returned or does not respond to treatment and who cannot 
have an autologous stem cell transplantation have limited treatment options. Minjuvi together with 
lenalidomide was shown to provide a clinically meaningful response and the side effects were 
manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Minjuvi’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Minjuvi has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Minjuvi? 
Since Minjuvi has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Minjuvi will provide 
evidence from three additional studies on the safety and efficacy of the medicine in combination with 
lenalidomide or bendamustine (another cancer medicine) in patients with DLBCL.   
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Minjuvi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Minjuvi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Minjuvi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
the medicine are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Minjuvi (tafasitamab)  
EMA/451927/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Minjuvi 
Minjuvi received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 August 2021 
Further information on Minjuvi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/minjuvi.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2021. 
Minjuvi (tafasitamab)  
EMA/451927/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
