ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
MINJUVI 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of powder contains 200 mg of tafasitamab. 
After reconstitution each mL of solution contains 40 mg of tafasitamab. 
Tafasitamab is a humanised CD19-specific monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin G (IgG) 
subclass produced in mammalian (Chinese hamster ovary) cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each vial of MINJUVI contains 7.4 mg of sodium. For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for concentrate). 
White to slightly yellowish lyophilised powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
MINJUVI is indicated in combination with lenalidomide followed by MINJUVI monotherapy for the 
treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who 
are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
MINJUVI must be administered by a healthcare professional experienced in treatment of cancer 
patients. 
Recommended premedication 
A premedication to reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions should be administered 30 minutes to 
2 hours prior to tafasitamab infusion. For patients not experiencing infusion-related reactions during 
the first 3 infusions, premedication is optional for subsequent infusions. 
The premedication may include antipyretics (e.g. paracetamol), histamine H1 receptor blockers (e.g. 
diphenhydramine), histamine H2 receptor blockers (e.g. cimetidine), or glucocorticosteroids (e.g. 
methylprednisolone). 
Treatment of infusion-related reactions 
If an infusion-related reaction occurs (Grade 2 and higher), the infusion should be interrupted. In 
addition, appropriate medical treatment of symptoms should be initiated. After signs and symptoms 
are resolved or reduced to Grade 1, MINJUVI infusion can be resumed at a reduced infusion speed 
(see Table 1). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a patient has experienced a Grade 1 to 3 infusion-related reaction, premedication should be 
administered before subsequent tafasitamab infusions. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of MINJUVI is 12 mg per kg body weight administered as an intravenous 
infusion according to the following schedule: 
• 
• 
• 
Each cycle has 28 days. 
Cycle 1: infusion on day 1, 4, 8, 15 and 22 of the cycle. 
Cycles 2 and 3: infusion on day 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle. 
Cycle 4 until disease progression: infusion on day 1 and 15 of each cycle.  
In addition, patients should self-administer lenalidomide capsules at the recommended starting dose of 
25 mg daily on days 1 to 21 of each cycle. The starting dose and subsequent dosing may be adjusted 
according to the lenalidomide Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
MINJUVI plus lenalidomide in combination is given for up to twelve cycles. 
Treatment with lenalidomide should be stopped after a maximum of twelve cycles of combination 
therapy. Patients should continue to receive MINJUVI infusions as single agent on day 1 and 15 of 
each 28-day cycle, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
Dose modifications  
Table 1 provides dose modifications in case of adverse reactions. For dose modifications regarding 
lenalidomide, please also refer to the lenalidomide SmPC. 
Table 1:  Dose modifications in case of adverse reactions 
Adverse reaction 
Severity 
Dosage modification 
Infusion-related 
reactions 
Grade 2 (moderate)  
Grade 3 (severe)  
3 
•  Interrupt MINJUVI infusion 
immediately and manage signs and 
symptoms.  
•  Once signs and symptoms resolve or 
reduce to Grade 1, resume MINJUVI 
infusion at no more than 50% of the rate 
at which the reaction occurred. If the 
patient does not experience further 
reaction within 1 hour and vital signs 
are stable, the infusion rate may be 
increased every 30 minutes as tolerated 
to the rate at which the reaction 
occurred. 
•  Interrupt MINJUVI infusion 
immediately and manage signs and 
symptoms. 
•  Once signs and symptoms resolve or 
reduce to Grade 1, resume MINJUVI 
infusion at no more than 25% of the rate 
at which the reaction occurred. If the 
patient does not experience further 
reaction within 1 hour and vital signs 
are stable, the infusion rate may be 
increased every 30 minutes as tolerated 
to a maximum of 50% of the rate at 
which the reaction occurred. 
•  If after rechallenge the reaction returns, 
stop the infusion immediately.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse reaction 
Severity 
Dosage modification 
Grade 4 (life-threatening)  
Myelosuppression  
Platelet count of less than 
50,000/µL  
Neutrophil count of less than 
1,000/µL for at least 7 days 
or 
Neutrophil count of less than 
1,000/µL with an increase of 
body temperature to 38 °C or 
higher 
or  
Neutrophil count less 
than 500/µL 
•  Stop the infusion immediately and 
permanently discontinue MINJUVI. 
•  Withhold MINJUVI and lenalidomide 
and monitor complete blood count 
weekly until platelet count is 50,000/µL 
or higher. 
•  Resume MINJUVI at the same dose and 
lenalidomide at a reduced dose if 
platelets return to ≥ 50,000/µL. Refer to 
the lenalidomide SmPC for dosage 
modifications.  
•  Withhold MINJUVI and lenalidomide 
and monitor complete blood count 
weekly until neutrophil count is 
1,000/µL or higher. 
•  Resume MINJUVI at the same dose and 
lenalidomide at a reduced dose if 
neutrophils return to ≥ 1000/µL. Refer 
to the lenalidomide SmPC for dosage 
modifications. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of MINJUVI in children under 18 years have not been established.  
No data are available.  
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is needed for elderly patients (≥ 65 years). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
There are no data in patients with severe renal impairment for dosing recommendations. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). There are no 
data in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment for dosing recommendations. 
Method of administration  
MINJUVI is for intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
• 
For the first infusion of cycle 1, the intravenous infusion rate should be 70 mL/h for the first 
30 minutes. Afterwards, the rate should be increased to complete the first infusion within a 
2.5-hour period.  
All subsequent infusions should be administered within a 1.5 to 2-hour period. 
In case of adverse reactions, consider the recommended dose modifications provided in Table 1. 
MINJUVI must not be co-administered with other medicinal products through the same infusion 
line. 
MINJUVI must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Infusion-related reactions may occur and have been reported more frequently during the first infusion 
(see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored closely throughout the infusion. Patients should be 
advised to contact their healthcare professionals if they experience signs and symptoms of 
infusion-related reactions including fever, chills, rash or breathing problems within 24 hours of 
infusion. A premedication should be administered to patients prior to starting tafasitamab infusion. 
Based on the severity of the infusion-related reaction, tafasitamab infusion should be interrupted or 
discontinued and appropriate medical management should be instituted (see section 4.2). 
Myelosuppression 
Treatment with tafasitamab can cause serious and/or severe myelosuppression including neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia (see section 4.8). Complete blood counts should be monitored 
throughout treatment and prior to administration of each treatment cycle. Based on the severity of the 
adverse reaction, tafasitamab infusion should be withheld (see Table 1). Refer to the lenalidomide 
SmPC for dosage modifications. 
Neutropenia 
Neutropenia, including febrile neutropenia, has been reported during treatment with tafasitamab. 
Administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF) should be considered, in particular 
in patients with Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Any symptoms or signs of developing infection should be 
anticipated, evaluated and treated.  
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia has been reported during treatment with tafasitamab. Withholding of concomitant 
medicinal products that may increase bleeding risk (e.g. platelet inhibitors, anticoagulants) should be 
considered. Patients should be advised to report signs or symptoms of bruising or bleeding 
immediately. 
Infections 
Fatal and serious infections, including opportunistic infections, occurred in patients during treatment 
with tafasitamab. Tafasitamab should be administered to patients with an active infection only if the 
infection is treated appropriately and well controlled. Patients with a history of recurring or chronic 
infections may be at increased risk of infection and should be monitored appropriately. 
Patients should be advised to contact their healthcare professionals if fever or other evidence of 
potential infection, such as chills, cough or pain on urination, develops. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has been reported during combination therapy 
with tafasitamab. Patients should be monitored for new or worsening neurological symptoms or signs 
that may be suggestive of PML. The symptoms of PML are nonspecific and can vary depending on the 
affected region of the brain. These include altered mental status, memory loss, speech impairment, 
motor deficits (hemiparesis or monoparesis), limb ataxia, gait ataxia, and visual symptoms such as 
hemianopia and diplopia. If PML is suspected, further dosing of tafasitamab must be immediately 
suspended. Referral to a neurologist should be considered. Appropriate diagnostic measures may 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
include MRI scan, cerebrospinal fluid testing for JC viral DNA and repeat neurological assessments. If 
PML is confirmed, tafasitamab must be permanently discontinued.  
Tumour lysis syndrome  
Patients with high tumour burden and rapidly proliferative tumour may be at increased risk of tumour 
lysis syndrome. In patients with DLBCL, tumour lysis syndrome during treatment with tafasitamab 
has been observed. Appropriate measures/prophylaxis in accordance with local guidelines should be 
taken prior to treatment with tafasitamab. Patients should be monitored closely for tumour lysis 
syndrome during treatment with tafasitamab. 
Immunisations 
The safety of immunisation with live vaccines following tafasitamab therapy has not been investigated 
and vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended concurrently with tafasitamab therapy. 
Excipient 
This medicinal product contains 37.0 mg sodium per 5 vials (the dose of a patient weighing 83 kg), 
equivalent to 1.85% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Treatment with tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide should not be initiated in female 
patients unless pregnancy has been excluded. Please also refer to the SmPC of lenalidomide. 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females 
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during and for at 
least 3 months after end of treatment with tafasitamab. 
Pregnancy 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have not been conducted with tafasitamab. 
There are no data on the use of tafasitamab in pregnant women. However, IgG is known to cross the 
placenta and tafasitamab may cause foetal B-cell depletion based on the pharmacological properties 
(see section 5.1). In case of exposure during pregnancy, newborns should be monitored for B-cell 
depletion and vaccinations with live virus vaccines should be postponed until the infant’s B-cell count 
has recovered (see section 4.4). 
Tafasitamab is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Lenalidomide can cause embryo-foetal harm and is contraindicated for use in pregnancy and in 
women of childbearing potential unless all of the conditions of the lenalidomide pregnancy prevention 
programme are met. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether tafasitamab is excreted in human milk. However, maternal IgG is known to be 
excreted in human milk. There are no data on the use of tafasitamab in breast-feeding women and a 
risk for breast-feeding children cannot be excluded. Women should be advised not to breast-feed 
during and for at least 3 months after the last dose of tafasitamab. 
Fertility 
No specific studies have been conducted to evaluate potential effects of tafasitamab on fertility. No 
adverse effects on male and female reproductive organs were observed in a repeat-dose toxicity study 
in animals (see section 5.3). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
MINJUVI has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, fatigue 
has been reported in patients taking tafasitamab and this should be taken into account when driving or 
using machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions are: infections (73%), neutropenia (51%), asthenia (40%), 
anaemia (36%), diarrhoea (36%), thrombocytopenia (31%), cough (26%), oedema peripheral (24%), 
pyrexia (24%), decreased appetite (22%). 
The most common serious adverse reactions were infection (26%) including pneumonia (7%), and 
febrile neutropenia (6%). 
Permanent discontinuation of tafasitamab due to an adverse reaction occurred in 15% of patients. The 
most common adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation of tafasitamab were infections 
and infestations (5%), nervous system disorders (2.5%), and respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders (2.5%). 
The frequency of dose modification or interruption due to adverse reactions was 65%. The most 
common adverse reactions leading to tafasitamab treatment interruption were blood and lymphatic 
system disorders (41%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in clinical trials are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class and by 
frequency. The frequencies of adverse reactions is based on the pivotal phase 2 trial MOR208C203 
(L-MIND) with 81 patients. Patients were exposed to tafasitamab for a median of 7.7 months. The 
adverse reaction frequencies from clinical trials are based on all-cause adverse event frequencies, 
where a proportion of the events for an adverse reaction may have other causes than the medicinal 
product, such as the disease, other medicines or unrelated causes. 
Frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); and not known (cannot 
be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented 
in order of decreasing seriousness. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2:  Adverse reactions in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who received 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Very common 
tafasitamab in the clinical trial MOR208C203 (L-MIND)  
Adverse reactions 
Bacterial, viral and fungal infections+, 
including opportunistic infections with fatal 
outcomes (e.g. bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis, bronchitis, pneumonia and 
urinary tract infection) 
Sepsis (including neutropenic sepsis) 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Common 
Common 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and unspecified 
(incl. cysts and polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Renal and urinary disorders  Common 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions  
Investigations  
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Febrile neutropenia+, neutropenia+, 
thrombocytopenia+, anaemia, leukopenia+ 
Lymphopenia 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
Hypokalaemia, decreased appetite  
Hypocalcaemia, hypomagnesaemia  
Headache, paraesthesia, dysgeusia 
Dyspnoea, cough  
Exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, nasal congestion 
Diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting, nausea, 
abdominal pain 
Hyperbilirubinaemia, transaminases increased 
(includes ALT and/or AST increased), 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 
Rash (includes different types of rash, e.g. rash, 
rash maculopapular, rash pruritic, rash 
erythematous) 
Pruritus, alopecia, erythema, hyperhidrosis 
Back pain, muscle spasms 
Arthralgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal 
pain 
Blood creatinine increased 
Asthenia++ , oedema peripheral, pyrexia 
Mucosal inflammation 
Weight decreased, C-reactive protein increased 
Infusion related reaction 
+Further information on this adverse reaction is provided in the text below. 
++ Asthenia includes asthenia, fatigue and malaise.  
Compared  with  the  incidences  on  combination  therapy  with  lenalidomide,  the  incidences  of  non-haematological  adverse 
reactions on tafasitamab monotherapy decreased by at least 10% for decreased appetite, asthenia, hypokalaemia, constipation, 
nausea, muscle spasms, dyspnoea and C-reactive protein increased. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Myelosuppression 
Treatment with tafasitamab can cause serious or severe myelosuppression including neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
In the L-MIND study, myelosuppression (i.e. neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, 
leukopenia, lymphopenia or anaemia) occurred in 65.4% of patients treated with tafasitamab. 
Myelosuppression was managed by reduction or interruption of lenalidomide, interruption of 
tafasitamab and/or administration of G-CSF (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Myelosuppression led to 
interruption of tafasitamab in 41% and to tafasitamab discontinuation in 1.2%. 
8 
 
 
Neutropenia/febrile neutropenia 
Incidence of neutropenia was 51%. Incidence of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was 49% and of Grade 3 or 
4 febrile neutropenia was 12%. Median duration of any adverse reaction of neutropenia was 8 days 
(range 1 – 222 days); median time to onset to first occurrence of neutropenia was 49 days (range 1 – 
994 days). 
Thrombocytopenia  
Incidence of thrombocytopenia was 31%. Incidence of Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia was 17%. 
Median duration of any adverse reaction thrombocytopenia was 11 days (range 1 – 470 days); median 
time to onset to first occurrence of thrombocytopenia was 71 days (range 1 – 358 days). 
Anaemia 
Incidence of anaemia was 36%. Incidence of Grade 3 or 4 anaemia was 7%. Median duration of any 
adverse reaction of anaemia was 15 days (range 1 – 535 days); median time to onset to first occurrence 
of anaemia was 49 days (range 1 – 1129 days). 
When patients in the L-MIND study were switched from tafasitamab and lenalidomide in the 
combination therapy phase to tafasitamab alone in the extended monotherapy phase, the incidences of 
haematological events decreased by at least 20% for neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and anaemia; no 
incidences of febrile neutropenia were reported with tafasitamab monotherapy (see sections 4.2 and 
4.4). 
Infections 
In the L-MIND study, infections occurred in 73% of patients. Incidence of Grade 3 or 4 infections was 
28%. The most frequently reported Grade 3 or higher infections were pneumonia (7%), respiratory 
tract infections (4.9%), urinary tract infections (4.9%) and sepsis (4.9%). Infection was fatal in < 1% 
of patients (pneumonia) within 30 days of last treatment. 
Median time to first onset of Grade 3 or 4 infection was 62.5 days (4 – 1014 days). Median duration of 
any infection was 11 days (1 – 392 days). 
Recommendations for management of infections are provided in section 4.4. 
Infection led to dose interruption of tafasitamab in 27% and tafasitamab discontinuation in 4.9%. 
Infusion-related reactions 
In the L-MIND study, infusion-related reactions occurred in 6% of patients. All infusion related 
reactions were Grade 1 and resolved on the day of occurrence. Eighty percent of these reactions 
occurred during cycle 1 or 2. Symptoms included chills, flushing, dyspnoea and hypertension (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Immunogenicity 
In 245 patients treated with tafasitamab, no treatment-emergent or treatment-boosted anti-tafasitamab 
antibodies were observed. Pre-existing anti-tafasitamab antibodies were detected in 17/245 patients 
(6.9%) with no impact on pharmacokinetics, efficacy or safety of tafasitamab. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Among 81 patients treated in the L-MIND study, 56 (69%) patients were > 65 years of age. Patients 
> 65 years of age had a numerically higher incidence of serious treatment emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs) (55%) than patients ≤ 65 years (44%).  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
In the case of an overdose, patients should be carefully observed for signs or symptoms of adverse 
reactions and supportive care should be administered, as appropriate. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies, ATC code: L01FX12. 
Mechanism of action 
Tafasitamab is an Fc-enhanced monoclonal antibody that targets the CD19 antigen expressed on the 
surface of pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. 
Upon binding to CD19, tafasitamab mediates B-cell lysis through: 
• 
• 
engagement of immune effector cells like natural killer cells, γδ T cells and phagocytes 
direct induction of cell death (apoptosis) 
The Fc modification results in enhanced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and 
antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, tafasitamab led to a reduction in peripheral blood 
B-cell counts. The reduction relative to baseline B-cell count reached 97% after eight days of 
treatment in the L-MIND study. The maximum B-cell reduction at approximately 100% (median) was 
reached within 16 weeks of treatment.  
Although the depletion of B-cells in the peripheral blood is a measurable pharmacodynamic effect, it 
is not directly correlated with the depletion of B-cells in solid organs or in malignant deposits. 
Clinical efficacy 
Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide followed by tafasitamab monotherapy was studied in the L-MIND 
study, an open-label multicentre single-arm study. This study was conducted in adult patients with 
relapsed or refractory DLBCL after 1 to 3 prior systemic DLBCL therapies, who at the time of the trial 
were not candidates for high dose chemotherapy followed by ASCT or who had refused ASCT. One 
of the prior systemic therapies had to include a CD20 targeted therapy. The study excluded patients 
with severe hepatic impairment (total serum bilirubin > 3 mg/dL) and patients with renal impairment 
(CrCL< 60 mL/min.), as well as patients with history or evidence of clinically significant 
cardiovascular, CNS and/or other systemic disease. Patients with a known history of 
“double/triple-hit” genetics DLBCL were also excluded at study entry. 
For the first three cycles, patients received 12 mg/kg tafasitamab via infusion on day 1, 8, 15 and 22 of 
each 28-day cycle, plus a loading dose on day 4 of cycle 1. Thereafter, tafasitamab was administered 
on days 1 and 15 of each cycle until disease progression. Premedication including antipyretics, 
histamine H1 and H2 receptor blockers and glucocorticosteroids was given 30 to 120 minutes prior to 
the first three tafasitamab infusions.  
Patients self-administered 25 mg lenalidomide daily on days 1 to 21 of each 28-day cycle, up to 
12 cycles. 
A total of 81 patients were enrolled in the L-MIND study. The median age was 72 years (range 41 to 
86 years), 89% were white and 54% were males. Out of 81 patients, 74 (91.4%) had ECOG 
performance score of 0 or 1 and 7 (8.6%) had ECOG score of 2. The median number of prior therapies 
was two (range: 1 to 4), with 40 patients (49.4%) receiving one prior therapy and 35 patients (43.2%) 
receiving 2 prior lines of treatment. Five patients (6.2%) had 3 prior lines of therapies and 1 (1.2%) 
had 4 prior lines of treatment. All patients had received a prior anti-CD20-containing therapy. Eight 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients had a diagnosis of DLBCL transformed from low-grade lymphoma. Fifteen patients (18.5%) 
had primary refractory disease, 36 (44.4%) were refractory to their last prior therapy, and 34 (42.0%) 
were refractory to rituximab. Nine patients (11.1%) had received prior ASCT. The primary reasons for 
patients not being candidates for ASCT included age (45.7%), refractory to salvage chemotherapy 
(23.5%), comorbidities (13.6%) and refusal of high dose chemotherapy/ASCT (16.0%). 
One patient received tafasitamab, but not lenalidomide. The remaining 80 patients received at least one 
dose of tafasitamab and lenalidomide. All patients enrolled in the L-MIND study had a diagnosis of 
DLBCL based on local pathology. However, as per central pathology review, 10 patients could not be 
classified as DLBCL.  
The median duration of exposure to treatment was 9.2 months (range: 0.23, 54.67 months). Thirty-two 
(39.5%) patients completed 12 cycles of tafasitamab. Thirty (37.0%) patients completed 12 cycles of 
lenalidomide. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was best objective response rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of 
complete and partial responders, as assessed by an independent review committee (IRC). Other 
efficacy endpoints included duration of response (DoR), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS). The efficacy results are summarised in Table 3.  
Table 3:  Efficacy results in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
in the MOR208C203 (L-MIND) study 
Efficacy parameter 
Tafasitamab + lenalidomide 
(N = 81 [ITT]*) 
30-NOV-2019 cut-off 
(24 months analysis) 
30-OCT-2020 cut-off 
(35 months analysis) 
Primary endpoint 
Best objective response rate (per IRC)  
Overall response rate, n (%) 
(95% CI) 
Complete response rate, n 
(%) 
(95% CI) 
Partial response rate, n (%) 
(95% CI) 
46 (56.8)  
[45.3, 67.8] 
32 (39.5)  
[28.8, 51.0] 
14 (17.3)  
[ 9.8, 27.3] 
Secondary endpoint  
Overall duration of response (complete + partial response) a 
Median, months  
(95% CI) 
34.6  
[26.1, NR] 
ITT = intention to treat; NR = not reached  
*One patient received only tafasitamab 
CI: Binomial exact confidence interval using Clopper Pearson method 
a Kaplan Meier estimates 
46 (56.8)  
[45.3, 67.8] 
32 (39.5)  
[28.8, 51.0] 
14 (17.3)  
[ 9.8, 27.3] 
43.9  
[26.1, NR] 
Overall survival (OS) was a secondary endpoint in the study. After a median follow up time of 
42.7 months (95% CI: 38.0; 47.2), the median OS was 31.6 months (95% CI: 18.3; not reached).  
Amongst the eight patients who had a DLBCL transformed from a prior indolent lymphoma, seven 
patients had an objective response (three patients a CR, four patients a PR) and one patient had a 
stable disease as the best response to tafasitamab+ lenalidomide treatment. 
Elderly 
In the ITT set, 36 of 81 patients were ≤ 70 years and 45 of 81 patients were > 70 years. No overall 
differences in efficacy were observed for patients ≤ 70 years versus patients > 70 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
MINJUVI in all subsets of the paediatric population in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (see section 4.2 
for information on paediatric use). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This 
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The absorption, distribution, biotransformation and elimination were documented based on a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Absorption 
Based on an analysis of tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide, tafasitamab average serum 
trough concentrations (± standard deviation) were 179 (± 53) μg/mL during weekly (plus an additional 
dose on day 4 of cycle 1) intravenous administrations of 12 mg/kg. During administration every 
14 days from cycle 4 onwards, average trough serum concentrations were 153 (± 68) μg/mL. Overall 
maximum tafasitamab serum concentrations were 483 (± 109) μg/mL. 
Distribution 
The total volume of distribution for tafasitamab was 9.3 L. 
Biotransformation 
The exact pathway through which tafasitamab is metabolised has not been characterised. As a human 
IgG monoclonal antibody, tafasitamab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids 
via catabolic pathways in the same manner as endogenous IgG. 
Elimination 
The clearance of tafasitamab was 0.41 L/day and terminal elimination half-life was 16.9 days. 
Following long-term observations, tafasitamab clearance was found to decrease over time to 
0.19 L/day after two years. 
Special populations 
Age, body weight, sex, tumour size, disease type, B-cell or absolute lymphocyte counts, anti-drug 
antibodies, lactate dehydrogenase and serum albumin levels had no relevant effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of tafasitamab. The influence of race and ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of 
tafasitamab is unknown. 
Renal impairment 
The effect of renal impairment was not formally tested in dedicated clinical trials; however, no 
clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of tafasitamab were observed for mild to 
moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance (CrCL) ≥ 30 and < 90 mL/min estimated by the 
Cockcroft-Gault equation). The effect of severe renal impairment to end-stage renal disease (CrCL 
< 30 mL/min) is unknown. 
Hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment was not formally tested in dedicated clinical trials; however no 
clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of tafasitamab were observed for mild 
hepatic impairment (total bilirubin ≤ upper limit of normal (ULN) and aspartate aminotransferase 
(AST) > ULN, or total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST). The effect of moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 1.5 times ULN and any AST) is unknown. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data reveal no special hazards for humans. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repeat dose toxicology studies 
Tafasitamab has shown to be highly specific to the CD19 antigen on B cells. Toxicity studies 
following intravenous administration to cynomolgus monkeys have shown no other effect than the 
expected pharmacological depletion of B-cells in peripheral blood and in lymphoid tissues. These 
changes reversed after cessation of treatment. 
Mutagenicity/carcinogenicity 
As tafasitamab is a monoclonal antibody, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies have not been 
conducted, since such tests are not relevant for this molecule in the proposed indication.  
Reproductive toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies as well as specific studies to evaluate the effects on 
fertility have not been conducted with tafasitamab. However, no adverse effects on reproductive 
organs in males and females and no effects on menstrual cycle length in females were observed in the 
13-week repeat-dose toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate dihydrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Polysorbate 20 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
No incompatibilities have been observed with standard infusion materials. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
4 years 
Reconstituted solution (prior to dilution) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for up to 24 hours at 2 °C – 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of reconstitution precludes the risk of 
microbial contamination, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. Do not freeze or 
shake. 
Diluted solution (for infusion) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for a maximum of 36 hours at 2 °C – 
8 °C followed by up to 24 hours at up to 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the diluted solution should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 – 8 °C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. Do not freeze or shake. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear type I glass vial with a butyl rubber stopper, aluminium seal and a plastic flip-off cap containing 
200 mg tafasitamab. Pack size of one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
MINJUVI is provided in sterile, preservative-free single-use vials.  
MINJUVI should be reconstituted and diluted prior to intravenous infusion. 
Use appropriate aseptic technique for reconstitution and dilution. 
Instructions for reconstitution 
• 
Determine the dose of tafasitamab based on patient weight by multiplying 12 mg by the patient 
weight (kg). Then calculate the number of tafasitamab vials needed (each vial contains 200 mg 
tafasitamab) (see section 4.2). 
Using a sterile syringe, gently add 5.0 mL sterile water for injections into each MINJUVI vial. 
Direct the stream toward the walls of each vial and not directly on the lyophilised powder. 
Gently swirl the reconstituted vial(s) to aid the dissolution of the lyophilised powder. Do not 
shake or swirl vigorously. Do not remove the contents until all of the solids have been 
completely dissolved. The lyophilised powder should dissolve within 5 minutes. 
The reconstituted solution should appear as a colourless to slightly yellow solution. Before 
proceeding, ensure there is no particulate matter or discolouration by inspecting visually. If the 
solution is cloudy, discoloured or contains visible particles, discard the vial(s).  
• 
• 
• 
Instructions for dilution 
• 
• 
An infusion bag containing 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
should be used. 
Calculate the total volume of the 40 mg/mL reconstituted tafasitamab solution needed. 
Withdraw a volume equal to this from the infusion bag and discard the withdrawn volume. 
•  Withdraw the total calculated volume (mL) of reconstituted tafasitamab solution from the vial(s) 
and slowly add to the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) infusion bag. Discard any unused 
portion of tafasitamab remaining in the vial. 
The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 2 mg/mL to 8 mg/mL of 
tafasitamab.  
Gently mix the intravenous bag by slowly inverting the bag. Do not shake. 
• 
• 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1570/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 August 2021 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of latest renewal: 8 July 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE CONDITIONAL 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co KG 
Birkendorfer Str. 65 
88397 Biberach a.d.R. 
Germany 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) 
shall submit PSURs every 6 months. 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of Tafasitamab in combination with 
lenalidomide in diffuse Large B cell lymphoma in patients not eligible for ASCT, 
the MAH should conduct and submit the results of a single-arm study of 
Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in the approved indication 
according to an agreed protocol. 
 In order to re-confirm the safety profile of tafasitamab in combination with 
lenalidomide the applicant should submit the results of a phase 3, multicentre, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial comparing tafasitamab plus 
lenalidomide in addition to R-CHOP versus R-CHOP in previously untreated, 
high-intermediate and high-risk patients with newly-diagnosed diffuse large B-
cell lymphoma (DLBCL). 
In order to confirm long term safety of tafasitamab the applicant should submit 
the results of a Phase 2/3, Randomised, Multicentre Study of Tafasitamab With 
Bendamustine Versus Rituximab With Bendamustine in Patients With Relapsed 
or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (R-R DLBCL) Who Are Not 
Eligible for High-Dose Chemotherapy (HDC) and Autologous Stem Cell 
Transplant (ASCT) 
Due date 
December 
2026 
December 
2025 
March 2025 
18 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
MINJUVI 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
tafasitamab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of powder contains 200 mg of tafasitamab. 
After reconstitution each mL of solution contains 40 mg of tafasitamab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, trehalose dihydrate and polysorbate 20. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1570/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
MINJUVI 200 mg powder for concentrate 
tafasitamab 
IV use after reconstitution and dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
MINJUVI 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
tafasitamab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What MINJUVI is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use MINJUVI 
3.  How to use MINJUVI 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store MINJUVI 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What MINJUVI is and what it is used for 
What MINJUVI is 
MINJUVI contains the active substance tafasitamab. This is a type of protein called a monoclonal 
antibody designed to kill cancer cells. This protein acts by attaching to a specific target on the surface 
of a type of white blood cell called B cells or B lymphocytes. When tafasitamab sticks to the surface 
of these cells, the cells die. 
What MINJUVI is used for 
MINJUVI is used to treat adults with a cancer of B cells called diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. It is 
used when the cancer has come back after, or not responded to, previous treatment, if patients cannot 
be treated with a stem cell transplant instead. 
What other medicines MINJUVI is given with 
MINJUVI is used with another cancer medicine lenalidomide at the start of treatment, after which 
MINJUVI treatment is continued on its own. 
2.  What you need to know before you use MINJUVI  
Do not use MINJUVI 
• 
if you are allergic to tafasitamab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using MINJUVI if you have an infection or a history of 
recurring infections. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You might notice the following during treatment with MINJUVI: 
• 
Infusion-related reactions 
Infusion-related reactions may occur most frequently during the first infusion. Your doctor will 
monitor you for infusion-related reactions during your infusion of MINJUVI. Inform your 
doctor immediately if you have reactions such as fever, chills, flushing, rash or breathing 
difficulties within 24 hours of infusion. 
Your doctor will give you treatment before each infusion to reduce the risk of infusion-related 
reactions. If you do not have reactions, your doctor may decide that you do not need these 
medicines with later infusions. 
Reduced number of blood cells 
Treatment with MINJUVI can severely reduce the number of some types of blood cells in your 
body, such as white blood cells called neutrophils, platelets and red blood cells. Tell your doctor 
immediately if you have fever of 38 °C or above, or any signs of bruising or bleeding, as these 
may be signs of such a reduction. 
Your doctor will check your blood cell counts throughout treatment and before starting each 
treatment cycle.  
Infections 
Serious infections, including infections that can cause death, can occur during and following 
MINJUVI treatment. Tell your doctor if you notice signs of an infection, such as fever of 38 °C 
or above, chills, cough or pain on urination. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
PML is a very rare and life threatening infection in the brain. Tell your doctor straight away if 
you have symptoms such as memory loss, trouble speaking, difficulty walking, or problems 
with your eyesight or numbness or weakness in the face, arm, or leg.  
If you had any of these symptoms before or during treatment with MINJUVI, or you notice any 
changes, tell your doctor straight away as these may be signs of PML. 
Tumour lysis syndrome  
Some people may develop unusually high levels of some substances (such as potassium and uric 
acid) in the blood caused by the fast breakdown of cancer cells during treatment. This is called 
tumour lysis syndrome. Tell your doctor if you have symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, lack 
of appetite or fatigue, dark urine, decreased urine or side or back pain, muscle cramps, 
numbness, or heart palpitations. Your doctor may give you treatment before each infusion to 
reduce the risk of tumour lysis syndrome and perform blood tests to check you for tumour lysis 
syndrome. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of these problems. 
Children and adolescents 
MINJUVI is not recommended in children and adolescents under 18 years, as there is no information 
about the use in this age group. 
Other medicines and MINJUVI 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
The use of live vaccines during treatment with tafasitamab is not recommended. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
• 
Contraception  
Use of effective contraception during treatment with MINJUVI and for at least 3 months after 
end of treatment is recommended for women of childbearing potential.  
• 
Pregnancy 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use MINJUVI during pregnancy and if you are of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. Pregnancy must be ruled out before treatment. Tell your doctor immediately if 
you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during treatment with MINJUVI. 
MINJUVI is given with lenalidomide for up to 12 cycles. Lenalidomide can harm the unborn 
baby and must not be used during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential, 
unless all of the conditions of the lenalidomide pregnancy prevention programme are met. Your 
doctor will provide you with more information and recommendations. 
• 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with MINJUVI until at least 3 months after the last dose. It 
is not known whether tafasitamab passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
MINJUVI has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, fatigue 
has been reported in patients taking tafasitamab and this should be taken into account when driving or 
using machines. 
MINJUVI contains sodium 
This medicine contains 37.0 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each dose of 5 vials 
(the dose of a patient weighing 83 kg). This is equivalent to 1.85% of the recommended maximum 
daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How to use MINJUVI 
A doctor experienced in treating cancer will supervise your treatment. MINJUVI will be given into 
one of your veins via infusion (drip). During and after the infusion, you will be checked regularly for 
infusion-related side effects. 
MINJUVI will be given to you in cycles of 28 days. The dose you get is based on your weight and will 
be worked out by your doctor.  
The recommended dose is 12 mg tafasitamab per kilogram body weight. This is given as an infusion 
into a vein according to the following schedule: 
• 
• 
• 
Cycle 1: infusion on day 1, 4, 8, 15 and 22 of the cycle 
Cycles 2 and 3: infusion on day 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle 
Cycle 4 and after: infusion on day 1 and 15 of each cycle 
In addition, your doctor will prescribe you to take lenalidomide capsules for up to twelve cycles. The 
recommended starting dose of lenalidomide is 25 mg daily on days 1 to 21 of each cycle. 
The doctor adjusts the starting dose and subsequent dosing if needed. 
After a maximum of twelve cycles of combination therapy, treatment with lenalidomide is stopped. 
Treatment cycles with MINJUVI alone are then continued until the disease gets worse or you develop 
unacceptable side effects. 
If you have been given more MINJUVI than you should 
Because the medicine is given in hospital under a doctor’s supervision, this is unlikely. Tell your 
doctor if you think you may have been given too much MINJUVI. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact your doctor or nurse immediately if you notice any of the following serious side effects – 
you may need urgent medical treatment. These may be new symptoms or a change in your current 
symptoms. 
• 
serious infections, possible symptoms: fever, chills, sore throat, cough, shortness of breath, 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea. These could be particularly significant if you have been told you 
have a low level of white blood cells called neutrophils. 
pneumonia (lung infection) 
sepsis (infection within the bloodstream) 
• 
• 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
reduced number of blood cells 
- 
- 
white blood cells, especially a type called neutrophils; possible symptoms: fever of 38 °C 
or above, or any symptoms of an infection 
platelets; possible symptoms: unusual bruising or bleeding without or on only minor 
injury 
red blood cells; possible symptoms: pale skin or lips, tiredness, shortness of breath 
- 
bacterial, viral or fungal infections, such as respiratory tract infections, bronchitis, lung 
inflammation, urinary tract infections 
rash 
low blood potassium level in tests 
muscle cramps 
back pain 
swelling of arms and/or legs due to build-up of fluid 
weakness, tiredness, feeling generally unwell 
fever 
diarrhoea 
constipation 
abdominal pain 
nausea 
vomiting 
cough 
shortness of breath 
decreased appetite 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
worsening of breathing difficulties caused by narrowed lung airways called chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) 
headache  
abnormal sensation of the skin, such as tingling, prickling, numbness 
itching 
redness of skin 
infusion-related reactions 
These reactions may occur during infusion of MINJUVI or within 24 hours after infusion. 
Possible symptoms are fever, chills, flushing or breathing difficulties. 
altered sense of taste 
hair loss 
abnormal sweating 
pain in arms and legs 
muscle and joint pain  
decreased weight 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
28 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
calcium 
magnesium 
nasal congestion 
inflammation of the membranes lining organs such as the mouth 
lack of certain white blood cells called lymphocytes in blood tests 
a problem with the immune system called hypogammaglobulinaemia 
in blood tests, low blood level of 
- 
- 
in blood tests, increased blood level of 
- 
- 
- 
- 
a skin cancer called basal cell carcinoma 
C-reactive protein, which could be the result of inflammation or infection 
creatinine, a breakdown product from muscle tissue 
liver enzymes: gamma-glutamyltransferase, transaminases 
bilirubin, a yellow breakdown substance of the blood pigment 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store MINJUVI 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What MINJUVI contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is tafasitamab. One vial contains 200 mg of tafasitamab. After 
reconstitution each mL of solution contains 40 mg of tafasitamab.  
The other ingredients are sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid monohydrate, trehalose dihydrate, 
polysorbate 20 (see section 2 “MINJUVI contains sodium”).  
What MINJUVI looks like and contents of the pack 
MINJUVI is a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. It is a white to slightly yellowish 
lyophilised powder in a clear glass vial with a rubber stopper, aluminium seal and plastic flip-off cap. 
Each carton contains 1 vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
Netherlands  
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
MINJUVI is provided in sterile, preservative-free single-use vials.  
MINJUVI should be reconstituted and diluted prior to intravenous infusion. 
Use appropriate aseptic technique for reconstitution and dilution. 
Instructions for reconstitution 
• 
Determine the dose of tafasitamab based on patient weight by multiplying 12 mg by the patient 
weight (kg). Then calculate the number of tafasitamab vials needed (each vial contains 200 mg 
tafasitamab).  
Using a sterile syringe, gently add 5.0 mL sterile water for injections into each MINJUVI vial. 
Direct the stream toward the walls of each vial and not directly on the lyophilised powder. 
Gently swirl the reconstituted vial(s) to aid the dissolution of the lyophilised powder. Do not 
shake or swirl vigorously. Do not remove the contents until all of the solids have been 
completely dissolved. The lyophilised powder should dissolve within 5 minutes. 
The reconstituted solution should appear as a colourless to slightly yellow solution. Before 
proceeding, ensure there is no particulate matter or discolouration by inspecting visually. If the 
solution is cloudy, discoloured or contains visible particles, discard the vial(s).  
• 
• 
• 
Instructions for dilution 
• 
• 
An infusion bag containing 250 mL sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
should be used. 
Calculate the total volume of the 40 mg/mL reconstituted tafasitamab solution needed. 
Withdraw a volume equal to this from the infusion bag and discard the withdrawn volume. 
•  Withdraw the total calculated volume (mL) of reconstituted tafasitamab solution from the vial(s) 
and slowly add to the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) infusion bag. Discard any unused 
portion of tafasitamab remaining in the vial. 
The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 2 mg/mL to 8 mg/mL of 
tafasitamab.  
Gently mix the intravenous bag by slowly inverting the bag. Do not shake. 
• 
• 
Method of administration  
• 
For the first infusion of cycle 1, the intravenous infusion rate should be 70 mL/h for the first 
30 minutes. Afterwards, increase the rate to complete the first infusion within a 2.5-hour period.  
All subsequent infusions should be administered within a 1.5 to 2-hour period. 
Do not co-administer other medicines through the same infusion line. 
Do not administer MINJUVI as an intravenous push or bolus. 
• 
• 
• 
Reconstituted solution (prior to dilution) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for up to 24 hours at 2 °C – 25 °C. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of reconstitution precludes the risk of 
microbial contamination, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
Diluted solution (for infusion) 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for a maximum of 36 hours at 2 °C – 
8 °C followed by up to 24 hours at up to 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the diluted solution should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8 °C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
31 
 
 
 
 
