EMA/621687/2010 
EMEA/H/C/000134 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mirapexin 
pramipexole 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Mirapexin.  
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Mirapexin. 
What is Mirapexin? 
Mirapexin is a medicine that contains the active substance pramipexole. It is available as ‘immediate-
release’ white tablets (round: 0.088, 0.7 and 1.1 mg; oval: 0.18 and 0.35 mg) and as ‘prolonged-
release’ white tablets (round: 0.26 and 0.52 mg; oval: 1.05, 1.57, 2.1, 2.62 and 3.15 mg). 
Immediate-release tablets release the active substance immediately, and prolonged-release tablets 
release it slowly over a few hours. 
What is Mirapexin used for? 
Mirapexin is used to treat the symptoms of the following diseases: 
 
Parkinson’s disease, a progressive brain disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle 
stiffness. Mirapexin can be used either on its own or in combination with levodopa (another 
medicine for Parkinson’s disease), at any stage of disease including the later stages when levodopa 
starts becoming less effective; 
  moderate to severe restless legs syndrome, a disorder where the patient has uncontrollable urges 
to move the limbs to stop uncomfortable, painful or odd sensations in the body, usually at night. 
Mirapexin is used when a specific cause for the disorder cannot be identified. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Mirapexin used? 
For Parkinson’s disease, the starting dose is either one 0.088-mg immediate-release tablet three times 
a day or one 0.26-mg prolonged-release tablet once a day. The dose should be increased every five to 
seven days until symptoms are controlled without causing side effects that cannot be tolerated. The 
maximum daily dose is three 1.1-mg immediate-release tablets or one 3.15-mg prolonged-release 
tablet. Patients can be switched from the immediate- to the prolonged-release tablets overnight, but 
the dose might need to be adjusted depending on the patient’s response. Mirapexin must be given less 
often in patients who have problems with their kidneys. If treatment is stopped for any reason, the 
dose should be decreased gradually. 
For restless legs syndrome, Mirapexin immediate-release tablets should be taken once a day, two to 
three hours before going to bed. The recommended starting dose is 0.088 mg, but, if needed, this can 
be increased every four to seven days to reduce symptoms further, to a maximum of 0.54 mg. The 
patient’s response and the need for further treatment should be evaluated after three months. The 
prolonged-release tablets are not suitable for restless legs syndrome. 
Mirapexin tablets should be swallowed with water. The prolonged-release tablets must not be chewed, 
divided or crushed, and should be taken around the same time every day. For more information, see 
the package leaflet. 
How does Mirapexin work? 
The active substance in Mirapexin, pramipexole, is a dopamine agonist (a substance that imitates the 
action of dopamine). Dopamine is a messenger substance in the parts of the brain that control 
movement and co-ordination. In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells that produce dopamine 
begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. The patients then lose their ability to 
control their movements reliably. Pramipexole stimulates the brain as dopamine would, so that 
patients can control their movement and have fewer of the signs and symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, 
such as shaking, stiffness and slowness of movement. 
The way pramipexole works in restless legs syndrome is not fully understood. The syndrome is thought 
to be caused by problems in the way dopamine works in the brain, which may be corrected by 
pramipexole. 
How has Mirapexin been studied? 
In Parkinson’s disease, Mirapexin immediate-release tablets have been studied in five main studies. 
Four studies compared Mirapexin with placebo (a dummy treatment): one study in 360 patients with 
advanced disease who were already taking levodopa that was starting to become less effective, and 
three studies in a total of 886 patients with early disease who were not receiving levodopa. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the change in the severity of Parkinson’s disease. The fifth study 
compared Mirapexin with levodopa in 300 patients with early disease, and measured the number of 
patients who had movement symptoms. 
To support the use of the prolonged-release tablets, the company presented the results of studies 
showing that the immediate- and prolonged-release tablets produced the same levels of the active 
substance in the body. It also presented studies comparing the two tablets in early and advanced 
Parkinson’s disease, and looking at switching patients from immediate- to prolonged-release tablets. 
In restless legs syndrome, Mirapexin immediate-release tablets have been studied in two main studies. 
The first compared Mirapexin with placebo over 12 weeks in 344 patients and measured the 
improvement in symptoms. The second included 150 patients who took Mirapexin for six months, and 
Mirapexin  
EMA/621687/2010  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
compared the effects of remaining on Mirapexin with switching to placebo. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the time until symptoms got worse. 
What benefit has Mirapexin shown during the studies? 
In the study of patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease, patients taking Mirapexin immediate-
release tablets had larger improvements after 24 weeks of steady-dose treatment than those taking 
placebo. Similar results were seen in the first three studies of early Parkinson’s disease, with greater 
improvements after four or 24 weeks. Mirapexin was also more effective than levodopa at improving 
movement symptoms in early disease. 
The additional studies showed that the prolonged-release tablets were as effective as the immediate-
release tablets in treating Parkinson’s disease. They also showed that patients can be safely switched 
from immediate- to prolonged-release tablets, although dose adjustments were needed in a small 
number of patients. 
In restless legs syndrome, Mirapexin immediate-release tablets were more effective than placebo at 
reducing symptoms over 12 weeks, but the difference between placebo and Mirapexin was greatest 
after four weeks before getting smaller. The results of the second study were insufficient to prove the 
long-term effectiveness of Mirapexin. 
What is the risk associated with Mirapexin? 
The most common side effect with Mirapexin (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is nausea (feeling 
sick). In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the following side effects are also seen in more than 1 
patient in 10: dizziness, dyskinesia (difficulty controlling movement) and somnolence (sleepiness). For 
the full list of all side effects reported with Mirapexin, see the package leaflet. 
Mirapexin should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to pramipexole or any of 
the other ingredients. 
Why has Mirapexin been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Mirapexin’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Mirapexin: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mirapexin on 23 February 1998. The marketing authorisation holder is Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH. The marketing authorisation is valid for an unlimited period. 
The full EPAR for Mirapexin can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Mirapexin, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2010. 
Mirapexin  
EMA/621687/2010  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
