European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/704313/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Mirapexin 
International Nonproprietary Name: pramipexole 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/000134/X/0059 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................ 3 
1.1  Submission of the dossier........................................................................................................... 3 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product ............................................................................ 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION...................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 4 
2.2  Quality aspects............................................................................................................................ 4 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects.................................................................................................................... 7 
2.4  Clinical aspects........................................................................................................................... 9 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance ................................................................................................................... 25 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation......................................... 31 
2/32 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH submitted on 28 October 2008 an application 
for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Mirapexin  0.26 mg, 
0.52 mg,  1.05 mg,  2.1 mg  and  3.15  mg  prolonged-release  tablets,  pursuant  to  Annex  II,  point  2 iii 
and iv of the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1085/2003.   
Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH  is  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  Mirapexin 
0.088 mg 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7 mg and 1.1 mg tablets authorised on 14 October 1997 under part Part 
b of the Annex to Council Regulation No. (EEC) 2309/93 of 22 July 1993, as amended. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Steffen Thirstrup 
Co-Rapporteur:        Jaana Kallio 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 28 October 2008. 
The procedure started on 19 November 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
11 February 2009.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 12 February 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19 March 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 March 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
22 April 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 11 June 2009. 
During the meeting on 22-25 June 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Mirapexin  on  25 June 2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 23 June 2009. 
3/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Pramipexole is a nonergot dopamine agonist with full intrinsic activity. It shows high selectivity for 
interacting  with  receptors  of  the  D2  subfamily,  which  consists  of  D2,  D3  and  D4  receptors. 
Pramipexole exhibits higher affinity for the D3 receptor subtypes than for D2 or D4 subtypes.  
Pramipexole  immediate  release  tablets  have  been  authorized  in  the  EU  and  USA  since  1997. 
Immediate  release  tablets  are  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  either  early 
Parkinson’s  disease  or  advanced  Parkinson’s  disease  in  combination  with  levodopa  as  well  as  for 
Restless  Legs  Syndrome.  The  immediate  release  tablets  in  Parkinson’s  disease  have  to  be  taken 
3 times a day. 
Boehringer  Ingelheim  has developed a  prolonged-release  tablets  containing  pramipexole  that can  be 
administered once daily. This alternative formulation is beneficial to patients with Parkinson’s disease 
as this new pharmaceutical form will allow patients to treat their symptoms with a single daily dose, 
thereby increasing patient convenience and compliance. In addition, administration of the prolonged-
release tablets results in a pharmacokinetic profile with less pronounced maximal plasma levels and 
more stable plasma levels over time. 
This  application  was  submitted  under  Article  8(3)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as  an  extension  to  the 
marketing  authorization  for  Mirapexin  0.088 mg  0.18 mg,  0.35 mg,  0.7 mg  and  1.1 mg  tablets 
(EU/1/97/051/001  -  012)  marketed  by  Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH  to  add  a  new 
pharmaceutical  form  associated  with  new  strengths  of  pramipexole  -  0.26 mg,  0.52 mg,  1.05 mg, 
2.1 mg and 3.15 mg prolonged-release tablets.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
New pharmaceutical form of Mirapexin is presented as prolonged-release tablets containing 0.26 mg, 
0.52 mg,  1.05 mg,  2.1 mg  or  3.15  mg  of  pramipexole  (active  substance)  as  the  pramipexole 
dihydrochloride monohydrate salt. Excipients used in the preparation of prolonged-release tablets are 
well known excipients used in tablets preparations such as hypromellose, maize starch, carbomer 941, 
colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate. 
Tablets  are  white  to  off-white  and  have  different  shape  and  embossing  in  order  to  diferentiate 
strengths. Prolonged-release tablets 0.26 mg and 0.52 mg are of round shape, with bevelled edges, and 
have a code embossed (one side with the code P1 [(0.26 mg) and P2 (0.52 mg)], and one side with the 
Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol). Prolonged-release tablets 1.05 mg, 2.1 mg and 3.15 mg are 
white to off-white, of oval shape, and have a code embossed (one side with the code P3 [(1.05 mg), 
P4 (2.1 mg), and P5 (3.15 mg)], and one side with the Boehringer Ingelheim company symbol. 
Mirapexin prolonged-release tablets is packed in polyamide/aluminium/PVC blisters. Each blister strip 
contains  10  prolonged-release  tablets.  Cartons  containing  1,  3  or  10  blister  strips  (10,  30  or 
100 prolonged-release tablets). 
Active Substance 
The drug substance used in this formulation is identical with the one used in the manufacture of the 
approved Mirapexin presentations (EU/1/97/051/001 - 012). 
4/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  objective  of  the  development  was  to  obtain  a  stable,  extended  release  formulation  containing 
pramipexole demonstrating adequate bioavailability for administration once daily.  
Two  different  manufacturing  technologies  were  investigated  in  the  Phase  I  relative  bioavailability 
study (formulation finding study): single unit extended release matrix tablets manufactured via a direct 
compression process and multiple unit extended release pellet formulation filled in capsules.  
The  proposed  formulation  is  a  matrix  single-unit  prolonged-release  tablet  with  pramipexole 
dihydrochloride monohydrate dispersed homogeneously throughout the matrix. Five dosage strengths 
have been developed based on the same formulation principle. The release mechanism of the active 
substance from the matrix is by diffusion and erosion mechanism. By the diffusion mechanism, gastro-
intestinal fluids penetrate the insoluble matrix and diffuse back out together with dissolved drug. By 
the  erosion  mechanism,  parts  of  the  matrix  surface  separate  from  the  core  and  the  drug  is  directly 
exposed to the gastro-intestinal fluids. The in-vitro release characteristics of the active substance from 
the tablets are proportional to the square-root of time.  
The  commercial  composition  of  all  five  dosage  strengths  has  been  based  on  the  formulation  which 
demonstrated  the  best  in-vivo  performance.  This  formulation  was  chosen  for  further  development 
because found most suitable to achieve the intended in vivo profiles with a once daily application. 
The formulation development for “in vitro /in vivo correlation” (IVIVC) studies was established at the 
lowest dose strength since single dosing of higher dose strengths to healthy subjects is not feasible due 
to  tolerability.  However,  the  fact  that  pramipexole  is  a  BCS  class  1  substance,  the  strictly  linear 
kinetics of pramipexole and dose proportionality of the ER formulations allows the transfer to higher 
dose strengths. 
As the in vitro dissolution profile of each of dosage strength must match the same specified dissolution 
profile  optimization  experiments  for  tailoring  the  release  rate  were  performed  in  laboratory  scale 
experiments. The resulting intended commercial formulations of all five dosage strengths are identical 
to the composition. 
The  same  composition,  design  and  operating  principle  of  equipment  and  the  same  general 
manufacturing process has been utilized throughout pharmaceutical development at the development 
site and also for manufacturing of the primary stability batches and phase III clinical trial batches at 
the  production  site.  The  production  site  is  the  intended  commercial  manufacturing  site.  No  changes 
were implemented for the manufacturing process of pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate used 
in  phase  III  clinical  studies  compared  to  the  primary  stability  batches  as  well  as  to  the  intended 
commercial manufacturing process at the manufacturing site.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients present in the formulation are of animal or human origin. Magnesium stearate 
used in the manufacturing process of the medicinal product is of vegetal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  comprises  two  main  steps,  i.e.  dry-blending  with  a 
diffusion  mixer  and  subsequent  compression  into  tablets  using  a  power  assisted  tablet  press.  The 
compressed tablets are packed in blisters in folded cardboard box.  
Standard in-process controls are routinely performed during the manufacturing process to control the 
drug product quality. Acceptance criteria and specification limits have been set-up. The proposed in-
process control tests are adequate to control the critical steps of the manufacturing process. 
5/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prospective validation of the manufacturing process has been carried out with three production scale 
batches of each strength. The validation batches have been manufactured by the proposed commercial 
process. Acceptable validation results have been presented, demonstrating a robust process leading to 
a  product  complying  with  the  set  acceptance  criteria.  A  homogeneous  distribution  of  the  active 
substance  in  the  blend  has  been  demonstrated.  Segregation/deblending  do  not  occur  during  the 
compression of tablets. Stratified assay and assay values are well within limits. The dissolution rate of 
the individual tablets all comply with the proposed criteria. Dissolution results for all strengths are all 
within the set limits.  
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specification  is  a  standard  one  for  tablets  and  contains  tests  with  suitable  limits  for 
appearance, identification (HPLC and UV), assay (HPLC), loss on drying, dissolution, uniformity of 
dosage units (HPLC) and degradation products (HPLC). 
Full details of all analytical methods have been provided. All chromatographic procedures have been 
appropriately  validated.  Validations  comply  with  the  ICH  harmonised  Tripartite  Guideline  Q2(R1) 
Validation of Analytical Procedures: Text and Methodology. A summary of the validation results for 
the  key  methods:  identification,  dissolution,  degradation,  assay,  and  content  uniformity  have  been 
provided. 
The HPLC method for dissolution has been validated for specificity, linearity in the range, accuracy, 
repeatability  and  intermediate  precision.  Robustness  in  terms  of  filter  validation  and  stability  of 
sample and standard preparation has been investigated.  
The  HPLC  method  for  degradation  products  has  been  validated  with  respect to  the  active,  specified 
impurities and unspecified impurities for specificity/selectivity, accuracy, precision (repeatability and 
intermediate precision), linearity, range, limit of quantification, robustness and stability of solutions. 
Limit of quantitation and limit of detection have been determined. 
The  HPLC  methods  for  assay  and  content  uniformity  have  been  validated  with  respect  to 
specificity/selectivity,  accuracy,  precision  (intermediate  precision  only),  linearity,  range,  robustness 
and stability of solutions. 
Batch analysis results have been provided for 54 batches, including development, clinical, validation 
and stability batches. The batches have been tested for compliance with the specifications in place at 
the time of testing. All results comply with the specification valid at the time of the testing. Results 
demonstrate  compliance  with  the  proposed  specification  and  confirm  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
the  product.  The  batch  analysis  data  showed  that  prolonged-release  tablets  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
For  stability  studies  of  the  five  developed  dosage  strengths  of  prolonged-release  tablets  0.26 mg, 
0.52 mg, 1.05 mg, 2.1 mg  and 3.15 mg a bracketing approach was designed. In accordance with the 
ICH guideline "Bracketing and Matrixing Designs for Stability Testing of New Drug Substances and 
Products" accelerated and long-term primary stability studies were based on three batches each of the 
lowest, medium and highest dosage strength, 0.26 mg, 1.05 mg, and 3.15 mg. In addition, one batch 
each of the intermediate dosage strengths 0.52 mg and 2.1 mg was tested. 
The  applicant  performed  also  stressed  stability  testing.  For  stress  stability  testing,  the  samples  were 
exposed in closed amber glass bottles (heat) and in open amber glass bottles (humidity). The results of 
the studies demonstrated that prolonged-release tablets have been found to be slightly sensitive to heat 
that  are  sensitive  to  high  humidity  indicating  the  need  for  a  moisture  protecting  container/closure 
system. 
6/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition  photostability  testing  has  been  performed.  The  samples  were  exposed  1)  outside  of  the 
immediate  pack,  i.e.  on  glass  dishes,  of  2)  in  the  immediate  pack,  i.e.  in  the  proposed  commercial 
container/closure system, which is an aluminium/aluminium blister. One batch each of the five dosage 
strengths has been tested. No significant changes or degradation were observed. 
Based  on  the  stability  data  the  proposed  shelf-life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the  SPC  are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  new  pharmaceutical  form  –  prolonged-release  tablets  with  associated  new  strengths  have  been 
adequately  described.  The  excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  product  and  the  manufacturing 
process  selected  are  appropriate.  The  results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  drug  product  can  be 
reproducibility  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance in clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve 
this as Follow-Up Measure after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This application is a line extension to the authorised medicinal product Mirapexin. No specific non-
clinical pharmacological and pharmacokinetic studies have been performed for pramipexole in the ER 
formulation. 
Non-clinical toxicology studies have been performed to qualify three potential degradation products of 
pramipexole ER tablets. These potential degradation products are CD10503, Product V and Product Z.  
CD10503  is  specified  with  ≤1.0%,  Product  V  and  Product  Z  are  covered  under  any  unspecified 
degradation product with ≤0.4%.  Therefore, the specified levels are below the qualification threshold 
according to the respective ICH guideline. However, as either structural elucidation, (DEREK-analysis 
gave an alert for mutagenicity for CD10503) or studies pertinent to pramipexole IR tablets indicated a 
mutagenic  potential  (Product  V  and  Product  Z),  the  degradation  products  have  been  toxicologically 
qualified  accordingly.  The  MAH  claimed  that  these  degradation  products  are  further  degraded  into 
known  genotoxic  substances  (formaldehyde  and  catechol)  for  which  exposures  is  much  higher 
following  consumption  of  foodstuff  as  compared  to  treatment  with  the  maximum  recommended 
human dose. 
Pharmacology 
Not Applicable 
Pharmacokinetics 
Not Applicable 
Toxicology 
The  non-clinical  toxicology  studies  have  been  performed  to  qualify  three  potential  degradation 
products  of  pramipexole  ER  tablets.  These  potential  degradation  products  are  CD10503,  Product  V 
and  Product  Z.  CD10503  is  specified  with  ≤1.0%,  Product  V  and  Product  Z  are  covered  under  any 
unspecified  degradation  products  with  ≤0.4%.  Therefore,  the  specified  levels  are  below  the 
qualification threshold according to the respective ICH guideline. However, the MAH has conducted 
several in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  studies  due  to  the  genotoxic  potential  of  these  degradation 
products. 
7/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  13-week  toxicity  study  in  rats  with  CD  10503  indicated  that  there  were  no  relevant  differences 
between rats treated with pramipexole in combination with CD 10503 and rats administered 25 mg/kg 
pramipexole alone. Thus, this study is sufficient for qualifying CD10503 in relation to general toxicity 
up to a level of 10%. Most prominent clinical signs, such as decreased locomotor activity (Day 15-52), 
changing to increased locomotor activity (Day 53 until end of treatment) were observed in all test item 
treated  animals.  Most  findings  improved  or  disappeared  until  the  end  of  the  recovery  period.  Most 
findings  described  above  were  comparable  to  the  3-month  oral  toxicity  studies  with  pramipexole 
[U87-1039] and were independent on the co-administered dose of CD 10503.  
The  MAH  was  subsequently  asked  by  the  CHMP  to  discuss  in  more  detail  about  the  differences  in 
findings  between  this  13-week  toxicity  study  and  the  earlier  3-month  oral  toxicity  study  with 
pramipexole.  
In their response the MAH explained that the purpose of the 13-week study in  Wistar rats with CD 
10503 was to obtain data on the toxicity of pramipexole spiked with different levels of CD 10503 in 
comparison to pramipexole alone and to estimate the No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) for 
CD 10503, and therefore to qualify CD 10503 according to the present guidelines. The study was not 
intended to compare the findings of pramipexole alone versus the previous 3-month study in Wistar 
derived strain of rats. In study U87-1039, the high-dose had been 25 mg/kg pramipexole. The same 
dose was administered in study U08-1790, either pramipexole alone or spiked with different levels of 
CD 10503. In both studies, relevant findings at this dose were: 
•  decreased and later on increased locomotor activity 
• 
•  decreased body weight 
• 
•  decreased thymus weights and pituitary weights in female rats 
• 
•  histopathological changes in the ovaries (minimal to moderate increase in number and size of 
a moderate increase in mean absolute and relative weights of ovaries 
increased water consumption 
increased urinary volume 
corpora lutea) and the stomach (minimal to moderate erosions and/or hemorrhages) 
As  in  other  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  pramipexole,  these  findings  were  mainly  due  to  the 
exaggerated  pharmacological  effects  of  this  very  potent  dopamine  agonist.  These  findings  were 
comparable a) comparing the groups treated alone with 25 mg/kg pramipexole from study U87-1039 
versus  study  U08-1790  and  b)  no  relevant  differences  between  rats  treated  with  pramipexole  in 
combination with CD 10503 and rats administered 25 mg/kg pramipexole alone were noted in study 
U08-1790. 
The CHMP concluded that according to the MAH, the 13-week toxicity study with pramipexole  
+/- CD10503 indicated comparable results with the earlier 3-month study with pramipexole in Wistar 
derived  strain  of  rats  (U87-1039)  indicating  that  CD  10503  did  not  have  a  separate  effect  but  all 
relevant  findings  were  from  pramipexole.  No  formal  comparisons  between  studies  have  been 
presented e.g. in tabular format. However, based on the MAH’s response the CHMP concluded that 
similar safety margins were fulfilled in both studies. 
The MAH also proposed a hypothesis regarding the genotoxicity of CD10503 which the CHMP found 
reasonable.  However,  several  issues  needed  further  clarifications  regarding  presence  and  formation 
rate of formaldehyde in the final product, the purity of the batches of CD10503 used for the in vitro 
genotoxicity  testing,  and  the  validity  of  the  in  vivo  micronucleus  test.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  was 
asked  to  retest  CD10503  and  formaldehyde  in  a  standard  Ames  test  in  accordance  with  the  current 
guidelines.  
In their response the MAH explained that pramipexole tablets contain HPMC (Hydroxy Propyl Methyl 
Cellulose). HPMC was identified as the only source which contains formaldehyde (FA) at trace level. 
The FA may either bind to pramipexole thereby forming CD 10503, or may be present as “free” FA in 
the  drug  product.  Therefore,  the  total  amount  of  FA  which  can  be  present  in  the  final  product  is 
8/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
directly linked to the FA content of the utilized excipient HPMC. For the determination of the total 
amount of FA in HPMC an analytical method was developed and validated. The data obtained through 
this  analytical  method  was  in  the  range  from  10  to  19  ppm  indicate  a  consistent  PMC  quality  with 
respect to the FA level. The obtained data was also in concurrence with data reported in the literature 
where the same level of FA was determined in HPMC.  
The level of FA in pramipexole tablets can be calculated from the concentration of FA in HPMC and 
the quantity of HPMC used for the manufacture of the tablets. In the response the MAH provided an 
overview  of  the  various  pramipexole  tablet  dosage  strengths  and  the  amounts  of  HPMC  in  their 
compositions.  The  MAH  also  provided  an  overview  about  the  amount  of  FA  per  tablet  and  the 
maximum total daily intake of FA. These amounts were calculated under the provision that the HPMC 
contains  20  ppm  which  is  a  slightly  higher  concentration  than  the  highest  concentration  of  FA 
experimentally  quantitated in  HPMC. Taking  into account the acceptable  daily  intake  (ADI)  for  FA 
which is 10 mg/d, the intake of FA by administering pramipexole tablets is about 2200 times lower 
than the ADI. 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  the  MAH  has  calculated  the  content  of  formaldehyde  in  the  drug 
product based on the amount of formaldehyde in HPMC, which was the only source identified. This 
approach is considered acceptable and the issue was seen as resolved. 
The genotoxic potential of the degradation products V and Z is likely to be caused by the release of 
catechol from these degradation products. However, the MAH was asked by the CHMP to provide a 
detailed  description  of  the  proposed  reaction  and  discuss  the  likelihood  of  this  reaction  occurring 
during storage.  
The worst-case exposure to catechol is estimated to 16 µg/day in patients treated with pramipexole at 
the MRHD of 4.5 mg/day. This value is clearly well above the TTC limit of 1.5 µg/day for medicinal 
products  intended  for  chronic  treatment  in  a  non-life-threatening  disease.  Nevertheless,  catechol  is 
naturally  present  in  foodstuff  and  the  estimated  daily  intake  of  catechol  is  above  1330  µg/  day 
(calculated for a 50-kg patient based on data obtained from Canadian Authorities). Thus, the proposed 
specification  for  the  degradation  products  V  and  Z  is  considered  acceptable  by  the  CHMP. 
Nevertheless, the MAH was asked to submit the Ames test conducted with catechol and the mixture of 
product V and Z. 
The  MAH responded  with  submitting  the  AMES test  for  the  mixture  of the  degradation  products V 
and Z. The MAH also provided the results for an AMES test for catechol that has been reported in the 
open literature. The mixture of Products V and Z as well as catechol were negative in the Ames test. 
The CHMP accepted the MAH response and considered this issue resolved.  
2.4  Clinical aspects 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics 
In support of the registration of an extended release formulation of pramipexole, the MAH submitted 6 
clinical pharmacology studies: 
−  248.560 is a single dose in vitro-in vivo correlation and food effect study in healthy Caucasians, 
that was not assessed further in this application  
−  248.529 is a prototype formulation finding study that was not assessed further in this application. 
−  248.524 is a clinical study of pramipexole (IR) and (ER) formulation in patients suffering from 
early Parkinson’s disease. The PK data from this study has formed the basis for a population PK 
report 
−  248.530  is  a  multiple  dose  study  in  healthy  Caucasians  studying  dose-proportionality, 
bioequivalence and effects of food. 
9/32 
 
  
 
 
 
 
−  248.607 is a multiple dose study in healthy Japanese subjects studying dose proportionality, and 
comparative BA to immediate release tablets. 
−  248.545 is a multiple dose study of QT effects of pramipexole (IR) 
The bioavailability study in Japanese subjects (248.607) demonstrates a slightly lower bioavailability 
with respect to AUC for the ER formulation. The 90% CI values are within guideline specifications 
for bioequivalence. In Caucasians no difference with respect to AUC or Cmax could be demonstrated. 
Tmax at steady state was prolonged from 2 to 4 hours. There are no signs of dose-dumping. The effect 
of food during steady state has been studied. A slight increase in Cmax (20%) and AUC (13%) was 
observed. Tmax increased from 6 to about 8 hours. Fluctuation was significantly higher at steady state 
for  the  ER  formulation.  The  fluctuations  were  higher  in  particular  following  food  intake  and  in 
Japanese subjects. Subsequently the MAH was requested by the CHMP to discuss the possible clinical 
relevance of this. 
In the response the MAH provided more details on the two trials 248.530 and 248.607. In summary, 
the  fluctuation  was  overall  not  higher  for  pramipexole  ER  compared  with  IR  in  both  healthy  male 
subjects or male and female PD patients. Intake of food immediately before intake of pramipexole ER 
may increase Cmax and thereby the fluctuation. However, in the common clinical setting, as mirrored 
in  the  Phase  III  study  248.524  in  which  the  study  medication  could  be  taken  with  or  without  food, 
concomitant  food  intake  did  not  meaningfully  affect  the  PK  after  pramipexole  ER.  Moreover, 
pramipexole ER was found to be non-inferior to pramipexole IR in the early PD trial 248.524. Lastly, 
the tolerability profile was comparable between the two pramipexole formulations at the same mean 
daily  dose  and  dose  distribution.  Therefore,  the  possible  higher  fluctuations  with  pramipexole  ER 
following food intake are according to the MAH not expected to be of any clinical relevance in PD 
patients. 
The CHMP acknowledged that the difference in fluctuation between formulations, observed in healthy 
volunteers, appear likely due to differences in food intake between studies. In the study of Japanese 
subjects, food was administered 30 minutes prior to pramipexole resulting in slightly increased Cmax 
values as well as decreased Cmin values which may explain the increased fluctuation observed here. 
In  clinical  phase  III  trials  with  coadministration  of  pramipexole  and  food,  no  meaningful  PK 
differences  were  observed.  Simulated  data  in  early  Parkinson’s  disease  patients  does  not  suggest 
clinical  meaningful  differences  in  fluctuation  between  different  ethnic  groups.  Tolerability  profiles 
appeared similar between formulations.  
Although acknowledging the MAH response the CHMP was still concerned about the possible clinical 
relevance  of  the  noted  food  effect  and  requested  the  MAH  to  thoroughly  discuss  this  in  light  of  all 
efficacy  and  safety  aspects  and  the  MAH  should  discuss  in  detail  if  the  ER  formulation  should  be 
taken either without or with meal and what kind of fasting time would be needed after taking the ER 
formulation.  Also  the  implications  on  the  posology  was  to  be  commented  on  by  the  MAH  and  all 
relevant  information  should  be  reflected  in  the  SPC.  In  particular,  the  following  points  were  noted; 
Study  248.530:  Conventional  BE  limits  were  not  met  in  respect  to  Cmax,ss.  Total  pramipexole 
exposure and Cmax,ss increased with food about 20%. The food effect as observed now does not seem 
extremely large. However, possibly, the food effect may be underestimated as the intake of food was 
not performed for all five days during the food effect part of the study (4.5 mg ER active q.d fed on 
days 1 and 5, fasted for morning dose on other days). This issue was also to be addressed by the MAH 
when responding to the above questions. In addition, if the effect of food is considered to affect safety 
and/or efficacy, the MAH was to discuss whether a standardisation within the patient with respect to 
food intake would be a possible solution. Regarding study 248.607 the CHMP asked what were the 
calorie and fat contents of the light breakfast served 30 min before dosing. This information was to be 
discussed  from  a  perepective  to  either  suggest  or  not  suggest  a  certain  type  of  meal  when  taking 
pramipexole. Data on Cmax was also to be provided by the MAH to confirm bioequivalence between 
the test and reference product and to obtain additional information on the effect of food on Cmax. 
In summary the MAH responded as follows: In the phase I trial an average increase in Cmax of about 
20 % (90 % CI = [113.9 – 126.8]) was observed after 4.5 mg pramipexole ER administration under 
steady state conditions in fed state. A Cmax increase of 24 % (90 % CI = [115.1 – 134.1]) was observed 
after single dose administration of 0.375 mg pramipexole ER immediately after the intake of a high fat 
10/32 
 
 
 
 
meal.  The  results  indicate  that  the  AUC  remained  within  the  90  %  CI  limits  of  80  –  125  %  in 
comparison of the fed and fasted state in both lowest and highest dose strength after a single dose at 
steady  state,  which  would  suggest  equivalent  bioavailability.  Referring  to  the  study  248.530,  the 
occurrence of adverse effects (AEs) in healthy male volunteers was observed numerically even lower 
in fed compared to fasted state. The comparison of AEs between the three treatments, 1.5 pramipexole 
IR tid fasted, 4.5 mg pramipexole ER qd after a high fat meal vs. 4.5 mg pramipexole ER qd fasted 
revealed a similar pattern of AEs.  
The  food  had  an  effect  only  on  absorption  resulting  in  a  higher  Cmax,  but  did  not  have  an  effect  on 
elimination. After a single dose of 0.375 mg pramipexole ER the t1/2 and mean residence time (MRT)  
were not prolonged but were even slightly shorter in the fed state compared to fasted state  (gMean t1/2 
(% gCV) = 9.38 h (38.5%) and 8.40 h (9.79%) and MRT = 19.5 h (27.7%) and 17.3 h (7.02 %) under 
the  fasted  vs.  fed  conditions,  respectively).  In  the  multiple  dose  study  248.530,  the  pramipexole 
plasma concentration 23 hours after intake of 4.5 mg pramipexole ER with or without food was highly 
comparable and even slightly lower after a high fat meal compared to the fasted state (gMean C23,ss,fed 
=  2.76  ng/mL  (gCV=  43.l %)  vs.  gMean  C23,ss,fasted  =  2.82  ng/mL  (gCV=  43.0 %).  According  to  the 
MAH  it  therefore  seems  highly  unlikely  that  the  food  effect  would  have  been  higher  (higher 
accumulation) when the subjects had taken pramipexole ER under fed conditions over the whole 5-day 
treatment period.  
In  the  phase  III  study  248.524  a  PopPK  covariate analysis  did  not  reveal food to  have  a  significant 
factor for PK after pramipexole ER administration to Parkinson’s disease patients. In study 248.524 
the  food  seemed  to  have  only  modest  effect  on  the  pramipexole  plasma  concentration  after  2  and  4 
hours from the pramipexole ER administration. The C2,ss- and C4,ss-value was on average 16 % and 4 
%, higher in the fed state, respectively. Pramipexole ER tmax  is close to the time point of C2,ss-value 
measurement. 
In the final analysis of study 248.524, adverse events did not occur more often in patients treated with 
pramipexole  ER  compared  to  pramipexole  IR  treated  patients.  This  holds  true  also  for  Japanese 
patients of whom the vast majority had taken pramipexole ER and IR with food (final report 248.524). 
On the other hand food seemed to have also no effect on efficacy as pramipexole ER was as effective 
(non-inferior as measured by UPDRS part II and III total score change from baseline at week 33) as 
pramipexole  IR  in  early  Parkinson’s  disease  (including  patients  of Japanese  origin)  as  shown in  the 
final report of the study 248.524. 
The  intake  of  a  light  breakfast  immediately  before  pramipexole  ER  and  IR  administration  in  study 
248.607  in  healthy  male  Japanese  subjects  was  required  according  to  the  Japanese  pramipexole 
labelling. The calorie and fat content of the light breakfast served in study 248.607 was provided. The 
calorie content of the light breakfast was 542 kcal or 587 kcal and the fat content 24.8 g and 35.8g, 
respectively.  
In contrast to the study in Caucasian volunteers 248.530 under fasted conditions the intake of a light 
breakfast before administration of pramipexole ER in the study in Japanese subjects led to a slightly 
higher Cmax,ss of the ER-formulation compared with IR formulation (gMean ratio in Japanese subjects 
(fed)  =  110.49  %  vs.  95.38  %  in  Caucasian  subjects  (fasted)).  However,  in  the  Japanese  study 
pramipexole ER was bioequivalent to same daily dose of pramipexole IR on AUC0-24,ss and Cmax,ss and 
the 90% CI did not exceed the standard upper limit of bioequivalence of 125 %. In addition, Cmin,ss was 
not  bioequivalent  in  this  study.  This  was  most  likely  due  to  the  trial  design  of  this  phase  I  study 
(248.607)  as  food  intake  before  administration  of  pramipexole  ER  seems  to  result  in  slightly  lower 
Cmin,ss for pramipexole ER but not for pramipexole IR (see also above food effect in study 248.530).   
While study 248.530 investigated the bioavailability of pramipexole ER compared to pramipexole IR 
in the fasted state for both treatments, study 248.607 needs according to the MAH to be regarded as a 
relative  bioavailability  study  comparing  pramipexole  ER  with  pramipexole  IR  under fed  conditions. 
Though, no comparative trial on different type of meals was performed it seemed that the effect by a 
light meal was less compared to the effect of a high fat meal (gMean ratio in Japanese subjects after 
light meal = 110.49 % vs. 120.19 % in Caucasian subjects after a high fat meal). In the phase III trials 
11/32 
 
 
 
 
 
248.524 and 248.525 pramipexole ER could be taken with or without food without any limitation on 
the type of meal. 
So, in summary the MAH made the following arguments in response of the CHMP question: When 
pramipexole ER was given immediately after a high fat, high caloric meal to healthy  male subjects, 
Cmax was increased on average by 20 % and 24 % after 4.5 mg pramipexole ER given at steady state or 
0.375  mg  pramipexole  ER  as  single  dose,  respectively.  The  systemic  bioavailability  of  pramipexole 
ER was not meaningfully affected by concomitant food intake. The AUC was bioequivalent whether 
pramipexole  ER  was  given  under  fasted  conditions  or  after  a  high  fat  meal.  In  phase  III  studies, 
patients  were  allowed  to  take  pramipexole  either  with  or  without  food.  In  this  clinical  setting, 
concomitant food intake increased pramipexole plasma concentrations by less than 20% and the data 
available do not provide any evidence for a positive or negative influence of any type of meal on the 
clinical  efficacy  or  safety  of  pramipexole  ER.  Pramipexole  ER  can  be,  thus,  taken  with  or  without 
food  and  no  specific  instruction  with  regard  to  food  intake  is  deemed  necessary  for  the  posology 
section of the SPC. The data itself are briefly described in the pharmacokinetic Section 5.2 of the SPC. 
The CHMP acknowledged the thorough response from the MAH. However, the sentence “The food 
had an effect only to absorption resulting in a higher Cmax, but did not have an effect on elimination.” 
needed further clarification. Significant differences were observed in Cmin,ss and Cpre,ss with and without 
food  in  study  248.607  indicating  some  difference  in  elimination  rate.  It  has  been  shown  that  in  fed 
state, the elimination is somewhat faster. The CHMP considered that the fluctuations of pramipexole 
concentrations between Cmax (higher with food) and Cmin (lower with food) during ER formulation 
are  even  higher  in  fed  state,  which  may  have  clinical  relevance.  Although  the  MAH  adequately 
discussed  the  possibility  of  safety  consequences  of  higher  plasma  pramipexole  levels,  the  clinical 
significance of the lower Cmin,ss and Cpre,ss, observed for the drug’s efficacy during the pramipexole ER 
regimen in fed state was still to be further uncertain and therefore the CHMP requested the MAH to 
further discuss this.  
In  their  response  the  MAH  pointed  out  that  the  CHMP  statement  regarding  significant  differences 
were  observed  in  Cmin,ss  and  Cpre,ss  with  and  without  food  in  study  248.607  may  potentially  be 
based  on  a  misunderstanding.  In  this  study  all  volunteers  took  pramipexole  IR  and  ER  after  meal. 
According to Japanese labelling also all Japanese patients in the Phase III efficacy trial 248.524 took 
medication  after  meal.  It  is  of  note,  that  the  efficacy  was  comparable  in  this  subgroup  of  Japanese 
patients compared to the whole population. Therefore, effects seen in the Japanese healthy volunteers 
(trial  248.607)  seem  to  be  of  no  practical  clinical  relevance.  In  both  Phase  I  studies  in  Caucasian 
healthy volunteers the differences in Cmin after administration of pramipexole ER in either fasted or 
fed state was always less than 20%. The MAH subsequently offered as a post approval-commitment to 
perform a further in-depth evaluation of the data of the Japanese study 248.607 in the light of potential 
ethnic differences, taking also efficacy and PK data of the currently ongoing Japanese Phase III trial 
248.610 into account. 
To the CHMP it was still unclear what the significance of the variability in PK along with food intake 
and interethnic differences is for the efficacy. The MAH suggestion for a post approval-commitment 
for further evaluation of these factors, taking into account also efficacy and PK data of the currently 
ongoing  Japanese  Phase  III  trial  248.610  was  however  considered  acceptable  and  the  issue  was 
considered resolved (see section 2.7 for details).  
The MAH also performed an extensive population PK analysis with all relevant data including data 
from healthy volunteers, treated patients in study 248.524 and data from a previous study in renally 
impaired patients. The CHMP concluded that the methodology is appropriately specified, documented, 
performed, evaluated and reported. 
The  CHMP  also  concluded  that  a  two-compartment  model  with  first  order  elimination  was  an 
adequate  model  describing  pramipexole  concentration-time  profiles  of  early  Parkinson’s  disease 
patients (study 258.524). The absorption process of pramipexole IR formulation was depicted by the 
first order process with a lag time in absorption. For ER formulation, the absorption was described by 
a sequential model of zero and first order. Inter-individual variability was incorporated in the apparent 
12/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clearance  of  the  ER  and  the  IR  formulations  and  in  the  apparent  peripheral  volume  of  distribution 
(V3/F) for the ER formulation.  
Covariate  analysis  confirmed  that  CRCL  has  a  clinically  relevant  effect  on  the  clearance  of 
pramipexole. The estimate of the typical CL/F was 29.2 L/h when CRCL was greater or equal to 121 
mL/min.  The  typical  individual  CL/F  is  reduced  linearly  by  0.74%  by  reducing  the  CRCL  by  1 
mL/min. Body weight (BW) had an impact on V3 for pramipexole ER. The relationship between body 
weight and V3/F was described by a proportional linear model. The estimate of the typical V3/F for a 
75  kg  patient  was  313  L.  A  change  in  1  kg  body  weight  changes  V3/F  by  2.26%.  Other  intrinsic 
factors, like sex, age or race did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of pramipexole. 
The  MAH  has  performed  an  adequately  designed,  conducted  and  reported  study  on  the  effect  of 
pramipexole  2.25  and 4.5 mg  daily  on  QT interval. The  results demonstrate  that  pramipexole  at  the 
suggested clinical dose interval does not affect the QT interval. 
Following their assessment of PK data the CHMP also requested that all known drugs using the same 
active renal secretary mechanism as pramipexole should be evaluated in the literature and these should 
be listed as interacting substances in the product information.  
The  MAH  responded  that  there  are  only  a  few  studies  published  showing  a  clinically  relevant 
interaction  between  two  drugs  at  the  renal  tubular  human  organic  cation  transporter  (hOCT2). 
Relevant effects of a > 20% reduction in (renal) clearance are mainly reported for cimetidine (see table 
below).  Cimetidine  (300  mg  q.i.d)  has  been  shown  to  decrease  pramipexole  clearance  (~  renal 
clearance) by about 34 % in a drug-drug interaction study using pramipexole IR. Amantadine has been 
shown  to  decrease  pramipexole  clearance  by  about  24  %  in  Japanese  Parkinson’s  disease  patients. 
However, this effect could not be repeated using pramipexole ER in a most recent study. In a recent 
paper  levofloxacine  was  shown  to  exert  only  negligible  effects  on  the  PK  of  the  hOCT2  probe 
procainamide.  Average  procainamide  clearance  was  reduced  by  22  %  and  AUC  by  about  21  %. 
Ranitidine and cimetidine have almost the same Km- and IC50-values, but the therapeutic dose of the 
former is less than 50 % of the cimetidine dose. Based on aforementioned ranitidine and levofloxacin 
are not expected to affect the pramipexole renal clearance. 
Clinical studies which reported a > 20 % reduction in renal clearance of presumed substrates of hOCT2 
after co-medication with presumed inhibitors of hOCT2   
1significant co-variate in a PopPK model 
13/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recently, Giacomini et al. proposed a ratio of > 10 of unbound Cmax over  IC50 for an inhibitor of 
hOCT2 to exert clinically relevant effects. Accordingly, Zolk et al. proposed a list of drugs which was 
ordered based on the ratio of unbound plasma concentration (Cu,p) / IC50 x 1000. This resulted in the 
case of cimetidine in a ratio of 10.7x104 and all drugs with a ratio > 104 are provided in a table below 
as drugs potentially interacting with pramipexole via hOCT2 in the kidney. Drugs with a Cu,p/IC50 
ratio < 5x104 are expected to reduce pramipexole clearance by less than 20 %, which would be of no 
clinical relevance. 
Unbound plasma concentration: IC50 ratio (Cu,p/IC50) of drugs acting on the human OCT2 transporter   
Table adapted from Zolk et al., 2008 
Drawn from the results presented in the table above only chlorpromazine, fenfluramine and mexiletine 
need  to  be  considered  in  addition  to  cimetidine  and  amantadine.  However,  chlorpromazine  is  not 
excreted  renally  as  the  parent  compound;  chlorpromazine  undergoes  oxidative  metabolism  and 
conjugation. The metabolites and conjugates are unlikely to affect the tubular hOCT2. Fenfluramine is 
no  longer  marketed  and  can  be,  thus,  neglected  as  drug  potentially  affecting  the  clearance  of 
pramipexole in a clinically relevant setting. 
In  summary  the  MAH  argued  that  of  the  marketed  drugs  which  may  meaningfully  affect  the 
pharmacokinetics of pramipexole via inhibition of active tubular secretion cimetidine, amantadine and 
mexiletine needs to be mentioned in the SPC of pramipexole. 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  MAH  response,  but  argued  that  the  justification  by  the  MAH  for 
selecting  substances  as  clinically  meaningful  inhibitors  of  pramipexole  clearance  is  not  fully 
comprehensive. It was still unclear to the CHMP why e.g. trimethoprime and ranitidine have not been 
selected although they cause significant clearance reduction of HOCT2 probe drugs in clinical studies. 
The MAH was therefore requested to provide further justifications.  
The MAH responded that although trimethoprime and ranitidine have been reported to have a > 20 % 
reduction  in  renal  clearance  on  other  substrates,  the  MAH  expects  these  substances  to  reduce 
pramipexole  clearance  by  less  than  20%,  which  would  be  of  negligible  clinical  relevance.  The 
statement in question in Section 4.5 of the SPC is currently phrased in a way that specific substances 
mentioned  would  be  examples  for  an  overall  principle  rather  than  an  exhaustive  list.  It  is  the 
understanding of the MAH that the most important and most prominent substances in terms of clinical 
relevance  should  serve  as  examples.  However,  if  an  exhaustive  list  is  required  instead,  the  MAH 
would  be  prepared  to  offer  a  post-approval  commitment  for  an  in-depth  evaluation  of  all  potential 
substances  and  to  implement  an  exhaustive  list  of  substances  in  the  SPC  in  a  subsequent  variation 
application. 
14/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP concluded that examples of interacting agents may not be enough, since the PK variability 
may  be  relevant  for  efficacy.  The  fact  that  the  MAH  would  be  prepared  to  offer  a  post-approval 
commitment  for  an  in-depth  evaluation  of  all  potential  substances  interacting  with  pramipexole  is 
considered  acceptable  (see  section  2.7  for  more  details).  The  MAH  is  also  requested  to  take  a 
proactive role for evaluating interactions of pramipexole with commonly used hOCT2-inhibitors like 
ranitidine and trimetoprime. 
The influence of the inter-individual and inter-ethnic genetic variation in transporter hOCT2 structure 
and function may also have substantial effect on inter-individual variation in Cmax, Cmin and AUC 
values of hOCT2 substrates. The MAH was therefore requested by the CHMP to follow the literature 
in  this  field  and  be  aware  that  any  treatment  failure  or  toxicity  symptom  may  be  related  to  this 
variability. The MAH was further asked if the patients in the relevant studies could be genotyped for 
the most commonly existing polymorphisms of hOCT2. 
The MAH explained in their response that they understand that these considerations raised are relevant 
for pramipexole itself, independent of the prolonged-release tablet formulation applied for. Any inter-
individual  and  interethnic  genetic  variation  among  patients  is  taken  into  account  by  titrating 
pramipexole  to  an  individual  dose  level  balancing  efficacy  and  tolerability.  The  MAH  offered  to 
perform  a  review  of  the  relevant  literature  on  a  regular  basis  and  provide  updates  with  each 
PSUR/RMP as a post-approval commitment. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  simple  guidance  for  the  use  of  pramipexole  of  the  MAH  that  “any 
inter-individual  and  interethnic  genetic  variation  among  patients  is  taken  into  account  by  titrating 
pramipexole  to  an  individual  dose  level  balancing  efficacy  and  tolerability”  may  not  be  enough  for 
relevant safety and efficacy of modern drug treatment. The MAH however offered to perform a review 
of  the  relevant  literature  on  genetic  variation  in  transporter  hOCT2  on  a  regular  basis  and  provide 
updates with each PSUR/RMP as a post-approval commitment (see section 2.7 for details). This was 
considered to be an acceptable approach by the CHMP. In addition the MAH was requested to also 
take an active role in genotyping the relevant hOCT2 variants in each population in future studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
The efficacy  and  safety  of  pramipexole  (PPX)  has  previously  been  demonstrated  in  clinical  studies, 
and  the  IR  tablets  are  registered  with  the  indication  treatment  of  patients  with  early  and  advanced 
Parkinson’s disease (PD). 
Three  clinical  studies  wad  planned  for  PPX  ER  including  2  phase  III  studies  to  evaluate  safety  and 
efficacy in early (248.524) and advanced PD (248.525); and a study to evaluate the switch between 
PPX IR and PPX ER to determine dose and safety (248.636). 
In  their  application  the  MAH  submitted  the  results  of  bioequivalence  study  248.530,  interim  safety 
data  from  the  planned  phase  III  studies  and  interim  efficacy  analysis  on  treatment  of  early  PD 
(248.524) and the switch study (248.636) in support of the clinical efficacy. Following a request from 
the CHMP the MAH submitted the final data from the two pivotal Phase III trials (248.524 in early PD 
and 248.525 in advanced PD).  
Main clinical studies 
Discussion on interim results from Study 248.524 
The primary efficacy study for the present application was study 248.524. This study was planned as a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study of early PD. The objective of the 
study was to evaluate superiority of PPX ER to placebo at week 18 and non-inferiority of PPX ER to 
PPX IR at week 33. It was planned to include 500 patients in the study, but for the submitted interim 
analysis only the first 250 randomised patients were analysed by the pre-specified primary hypotheses. 
To secure data integrity and to keep blinding at the study level, PAREXEL was involved in the interim 
analyses  and  interim  study  report,  and  the  study  team  had  no  access  to  the  results  of  these  interim 
analyses.  Since  it  had  been  decided  that  efficacy  data  was  not  needed  for  this  application,  the  data 
15/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be considered supportive only. The study is ongoing and the updated data should eventually be 
available according to the pre-specified plan for analysis. 
The  study  design  was  in  accordance  with  current  standards  to  investigate  PD  and  the  demographic 
data for the patients were representative for the intended target population: 
Demographic data, treated set at first interim analysis, week 18 
Number of patients 
Sex 
   Male  
   Female 
Age  
Age classes 
   Age < 65 years 
   Age ≥ 65 years 
Race 
   Caucasian 
   Asian 
BMI [kg/m2] 
Placebo 
50 
PPX ER 
106 
PPX IR 
103 
Total 
259 
144 (56) 
62 (58) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
115 (44) 
44 (42) 
mean (SD)  63.2 (8.7)  61.6 (9.4)  62.0 (8.3)  62.1 (8.8) 
23 (46) 
27 (54) 
59 (57) 
44 (43) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
23 (46) 
27 (54) 
57 (54) 
49 (46) 
57 (55) 
46 (45) 
137 (53) 
122 (47) 
67 (63) 
N (%) 
39 (37) 
N (%) 
mean (SD)  26.7 (4.4)  26.0 (4.7)  26.2 (4.5)  26.2 (4.5) 
161 (62) 
98 (38) 
62 (60) 
41 (40) 
32 (64) 
18 (36) 
Selected PD-related baseline characteristics, treated set at first interim analysis, week 18 
Placebo 
50 
Number of patients 
mean (SD)  0.8 (1.1) 
Duration 
42 (84) 
N (%) 
Duration <2 y  
7 (14.0) 
PD pre-treated 
N (%) 
36 (72) 
Hoehn&Yahr Staging 2-3   N (%) 
UPDRS 
Part II+III total score 
PPX ER 
106 
1.1 (1.3) 
76 (72) 
10 (9.4) 
75 (71) 
PPX IR 
103 
0.9 (1.2) 
83 (81) 
7 (6.8) 
76 (74) 
Total 
259 
0.9 (1.2) 
201 (78) 
24 (9.3) 
187 (72) 
mean (SD)  30.1 (17)  30.4 (13)  28.2 (12)  29.5 (14) 
The  CHMP  noted  that  there  were  a  different  gender  distribution  in  the  placebo  group  (46%  males) 
compared to the PPX groups (58%). The significance of this is difficult to evaluate. The up-titration 
phase was 7 weeks, and the dose was increased in all patients who were not at least “a little better”, 
and  the  increase stopped  if  adverse  events  were  not tolerable. The  maintenance phase  was  up  to  11 
weeks for the week 18 interim analysis. 
The primary outcome was UPDRS parts II+III. 
•  The primary endpoint at week 18 would be considered met (PPX ER effective), if the UPDRS 
Part II+III score was significantly better for PPX ER than for placebo, and 
•  UPDRS  Part  II+III  scores  at  week  18  and  week  33  were  similar  for  the  PPX  groups  by  a 
descriptive analysis. 
Secondary  efficacy  criteria  included:  Clinical  and  Patient  Global  Impression  of  Improvement, 
proportion of patients improved, Quality of life scales, etc. 
The primary endpoint at week 18 was met as shown in the table below. 
UPDRS Part II+III total score, 18 weeks treatment, FAS 1 (LOCF) 
PPX IR 
Primary endpoint 
PPX ER 
Placebo 
PPX ER vs. 
Placebo 
PPX IR vs. 
placebo 
No of patients 
Baseline, Mean (SD) 
Week 18, Mean (SD) 
LS Mean Change (SE)-
ANCOVA* 
LS Mean Change (SE)-
MMRM* 
50 
30.1 (17.0) 
24.0 (14.9) 
-5.1 (1.3) 
102 
30.5 (13.6) 
21.3 (14.0) 
-8.1 (1.1) 
101 
28.3 (12.0) 
19.3 (9.8) 
-8.4 (1.1) 
0.0282 
0.0153 
-4.0 (1.2) 
-8.0 (1.0) 
-8.0 (1.0) 
0.0016 
0.0014 
*ANCOVA and MMRM with factors treatment and country and covariate baseline. 
Negative changes imply improvement in UPDRS Part II+III total score 
16/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four  patients  in  the  PPX  ER  group  and  2  in  the  PPX  IR  group  were  excluded  from  FAS  1  due  to 
UPDRS Part II+III values were only partial or missing for baseline or for treatment period. Due to the 
small number, this has probably no influence on the result. The test for superiority of PPX ER over 
placebo  remained  statistically  significant  after  different  sensitivities  analyses.  The  results  were  also 
supported by most of the secondary endpoints. The significance of concomitant PD therapy (levodopa) 
started during the study period, primarily in the placebo group was discussed. The primary endpoint 
was also met at week 33. The analysis was made on the FAS 2 (Observed Cases), the argument being 
that the patients included with an LOCF analysis was withdrawn before week 18: 
Maintenance of effect in UPDRS Part II+III total score at week 18 and week 33, FAS 2 (OC) 
Primary endpoint (maintenance of effect)  Placebo 
No of patients 
Baseline, Mean (SD) 
Week 18, Mean (SD) 
Change from baseline Mean (SD) 
Week 33, Mean (SD) 
Change from baseline Mean (SD) 
18 
23.6 (13.5) 
19.3 (12.7) 
-4.2 (7.0) 
20.9 (12.9) 
-2.7 (6.7) 
PPX ER 
35 
31.3 (13.9) 
19.5 (12.5) 
-11.8 (8.1) 
19.8 (13.4) 
-11.5 (8.5) 
PPX IR 
31 
29.0 (14.5) 
17.1 (10.9) 
-11.9 (8.8) 
17.1 (10.3) 
-11.9 (9.6) 
Negative changes imply improvement in UPDRS Part II+III total score 
Even though the primary endpoint was met, there are several problems with the analysis at week 33. 
The  numbers  in  the  groups  are  small  and  resulted  in  several  imbalances  compared  to  week  18; 
concerning gender, age and race. The UPDRS Part II+III values are almost identical at the two time 
points for all 3 groups, but it is noted that the largest difference is the baseline for the placebo group. 
Subgroups analyses were attempted for the first interim analysis (248.524 at week 18, FAS 1 set). For 
the second interim analysis there number of patients were too the small in the subgroups. Most of the 
differences were not consistent and seemed due to chance. However, two findings seem more robust 
and  of  potential  significance:  The  influence  of  PPX  dose  level  on  the  placebo  corrected  mean 
improvement in UPDRS Part II +  III score between baseline and week 18. The differences in mean 
change from baseline were statistically significant for the high dose category, while no improvement 
was  seen  for  the  medium  and  low  dose  groups.  The  CHMP  therefore  concluded  that  only  doses 
>3mg/d seamed to be effective. In addition, a better response was seen in patients <65 years of age. 
Discussion on interim results from Study 248.636 
This  study  was  planned  as  a  double-blind,  double-dummy,  randomized,  two  parallel  groups, 
multinational multi-centre study evaluating the switch from PPX IR to PPX ER or IR with or without 
dose adaptation over a 9-week DB treatment phase. The sample size was calculated to be able to claim 
non-inferiority/equivalence  for  2  treatment  group.  Using  a  one-sided  significance  level  of  0.05  and 
about  80%  power,  a  sample  size  of  120  patients  was  found  to  be  sufficient.  The  inclusion  and 
exclusion  criteria  were  standard  and  the  study  design  was  in  accordance  with  current  standards  to 
investigate  PD.  The  demographic  data  for  the  patients  were  representative  for  the  intended  target 
population and similar to the study group of 248.524. The duration of the disease was 0-5 years for 
85% of the population. The study has been completed according to the plans. Only a single of the 156 
randomised patients were not available for analysis. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients successfully switched from PPX IR to 
PPX ER or IR at the end of the maintenance phase. A successful switch (PPX ER non-inferior to PPX 
IR)  was  defined  as  less  than  15%  worsening  of  the  UPDRS  II+III  score  after  the  switch  (with  a 
possible dose adaption). The result was: 
Proportion of patients switched from PPX IR to ER or IR after possible dose adaptation, FAS (LOCF) 
N 
Number (%) of patients successfully switched 
Number (%) of patients not successfully switched  16 (16%)  3 (6%) 
Difference (%) of successfully switched patients 
PPX ER – PPX IR 
95% Confidence interval* 
-18.8,1.7 
-9,8% 
PPX IR 
52 
PPX ER 
103 
87 (84%)  49 (94%)  136 (88%) 
19 (12%) 
PPX Total 
155 
*The confidence interval is based on the Wilson score interval 
17/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval was -18.8%, non-inferiority between PPX ER 
and PPX IR could not be demonstrated. Further analysis of the dose adaption showed that 83 of the 87 
successfully  switched  patients  were  successfully  switched  without  dose  adaption  and  only  an 
additional 4 were successfully switched after a dose adaption.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  although  the  majority  of  patients  (84%)  could  be  successfully  switched 
from PPX IR to PPX ER, non-inferiority was not demonstrated, superiority of IR being most likely. 
The MAH was therefore requested to provide an analysis of the mean UPDRS II+III scores to evaluate 
whether the IR form is indeed superior. The role of adverse effects for the failures of switch from IR to 
ER should be discussed. If the question is resolved, it must be clearly stated in the SPC, that about 15 
% of patients cannot be switched to PPX ER. 
In their response the MAH elaborated on the non-inferiority testing, role of adverse events and impact 
on  SPC  wording.  Further  detail  on  this  is  provided  under  the  respective  heading  below.  The  MAH 
started  by  emphasising  that  the  primary  objective  of  the  study  to  demonstrate  that  patients  can  be 
safely  switched  overnight  on  a  1:1  mg  basis  from  pramipexole  IR  to  pramipexole  ER  was  clearly 
achieved. One-hundred out of 104 (96.2%) pramipexole ER patients compared to 49 out of 52 (94.2%) 
pramipexole  IR  patients  completed  the  9-week  study,  supporting  the  fact that  patients  can be  safely 
switched from pramipexole IR to ER. No patient stopped the trial prematurely due to lack of efficacy. 
In  each  treatment  group,  only  one  patient  prematurely  discontinued  the  trial  due  to  a  drug-related 
adverse event. 
Non-inferiority testing 
In the 248.636 switch study, a successful switch (from open-label PPX IR to double-blind PPX ER or 
PPX IR) was defined as no worsening of the UPDRS II+III score by more than 15% from baseline and 
no drug-related adverse events (AE) leading to withdrawal. The between groups difference (ER vs. IR) 
in  percentage  of  patients  successfully  switched  was  -9.76%.  So,  formally,  non-inferiority  between 
pramipexole  ER  and  IR  could  not  be  demonstrated  using  the  pre-defined  non-inferiority  margin  of  
-15% for the lower bound of the 95% CI. However, as the 95% CI ([-18.81, 1.66]) included the zero 
value,  superiority  of  pramipexole  IR  over  pramipexole  ER  cannot  be  concluded  either.  Overall 
comparable efficacy between ER and IR is further supported by the fact that, on all secondary efficacy 
endpoints,  pramipexole  ER  showed  a  numerically  better  efficacy  than  pramipexole  IR  in  study 
248.636: 
•  CGI-I responder rates: 87.4% vs. 78.8% for ER vs. IR, respectively 
•  PGI-I responder rates 81.6% vs. 71.2% for ER vs. IR, respectively  
•  Adjusted mean improvement from baseline in the UPDRS II+III score: -1.6 points vs. -0.5 points 
for ER vs. IR, respectively. 
No formal test of non-inferiority for the absolute mean change (in points) of the UPDRS Part II+III 
was implemented in the 248.636 trial protocol, as the main objective of this study was to prove the 
safety  of  an  overnight  switch  from  pramipexole  IR  to  ER,  as  explained  above.  In  addition,  it  was 
assumed that a formal test of non-inferiority based on a betweengroup difference of -3 points would 
have required more patients than planned in this trial. The trial report displays an adjusted between-
group  difference  of  -1.1  points  in  favour  of  pramipexole  ER  for  the  change  from  baseline  in  the 
UPDRS II+III score and a 95% CI of this between-group difference of [-2.8, 0.6]. The lower bound of 
the  95%  CI  (-2.8  points)  was  higher  than  the  non-inferiority  margin  of  -3  points  (between-group 
difference) as pre-defined in trial 248.524. Consequently, with the same non-inferiority margin of -3 
points  than  in  trial  248.524,  non-inferiority  between  pramipexole  ER  and  IR  would  have  been 
established also in the switch trial. These data were not used for a statement of non-inferiority in the 
trial report, as a post-hoc defined non-inferiority margin can only be used for hypotheses generation. 
A  test  for  superiority  of  pramipexole  IR  versus  ER  based  on  UPDRS  Part  II+III  score  would  not 
provide a significant result, because the adjusted mean improvement in the pramipexole ER group was 
numerically higher than in the pramipexole IR group (PPX ER: -1.6 points, PPX IR: -0.5 points). The 
fact that formally the non-inferiority margin was not met is clearly linked to the choice of a relative 
change instead of an absolute change for the non-inferiority margin. As stated above, with the same 
18/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
non-inferiority  margin  of  -3  points  as  pre-defined  in  trial  248.524,  the  non-inferiority  between 
pramipexole ER and IR would have been established in Trial 248.636 as well.  
Role of adverse effects 
Patients  reporting  a  drug-related  adverse  event  (AE)  leading  to  withdrawal  were  considered  as  not 
successfully switched. The fact that formally non-inferiority (using the pre-defined margin of -15%) 
between pramipexole ER and IR could not be demonstrated is not due to differences in the percentages 
of  patients  prematurely  withdrawn  due  to  a  drug-related  AE,  as  only  one  (1.0%)  of  104  patients 
switched  to  pramipexole  ER  was  prematurely  withdrawn  due  to  a  drug-related  AE  (vertigo  and 
nausea), and this  patient  was  not included  in  the  efficacy  analysis (FAS,  LOCF)  as  he had  no  post-
baseline  efficacy  data.  In  consequence,  none  of  the  16  pramipexole  ER  patients  considered  as  not-
successfully  switched  was  considered  as  such  due  to  a  drug-related  AE  leading  to  premature 
discontinuation.  All  (16)  pramipexole  ER  patients  considered  as  not-successfully  switched  were 
considered as such due to a worsening of UPDRS II+III score of more than 15% from baseline. 
Impact on SPC wording 
All  patients  can  be  switched  safely  overnight  from  pramipexole  IR  to  pramipexole  ER  at  the  same 
daily  dose,  as  demonstrated  in  the  Switch  Trial,  where  all  (104)  pramipexole  ER  patients  were 
switched from pramipexole IR (OL) to pramipexole ER (DB). Four (3.8%) pramipexole ER patients 
and 3 (5.8%) pramipexole IR patients discontinued prematurely the trial. None of them discontinued 
prematurely due to lack of efficacy. If needed, the pramipexole dose could be adjusted after switching 
from pramipexole IR to pramipexole ER. The benefit of a dose adaptation was clearly shown, as 12 of 
the 17 pramipexole ER patients who increased the pramipexole dose were considered as successfully 
switched  after  dose  increase,  while  only  5  of  17  could  not  be  considered  as  successfully  switched 
during the duration of the trial despite a dose increase. Efficacy was maintained in 87 of 103 patients 
switched  to  pramipexole  ER.  Out  of  these  87  patients,  82.8%  did  not  change  their  dose,  13.8% 
increased and 3.4% decreased their dose. In half of the 16 patients who did not meet the criterion for 
maintained  efficacy  on  UPDRS  Part  II+III  score,  the  change  from  baseline  was  considered  not 
clinically relevant. Only one patient switched to pramipexole ER experienced a drug-related adverse 
event  leading  to  withdrawal. Therefore,  the MAH  is of the  opinion  that  the  SPC  should  not  contain 
any  statement  that  a  certain  percentage  of  patients  cannot  be  switched  from  pramipexole  IR  to 
pramipexole ER. However, the MAH suggested adding a statement to the posology section of the SPC 
(4.2) that a dose adjustment may be required after switching from pramipexole IR to pramipexole ER 
tablets. 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  MAH  response  and  agreed  this  issue  can  be  resolved  with  an 
amendment to the SPC as suggested by the company below (section 4.2 and 5.1): 
4.2  Patients  already  taking  {TRADE  NAME}  tablets  may  be  switched  to  {TRADE  NAME} 
prolonged-release tablets overnight, at the same daily dose. After switching to {TRADE NAME} 
prolonged-release  tablets,  the  dose  may  be  adjusted  depending  on  the  patient’s  therapeutic 
response (see section 5.1). 
5.1  Efficacy  was  maintained  in  87  of  103  patients  switched  to  {TRADE  NAME}  prolonged-
release tablets. Out of these 87 patients, 82.8% did not change their dose, 13.8% increased and 
3.4%  decreased  their  dose.  In  half  of  the  16  patients  who  did  not  meet  the  criterion  for 
maintained efficacy on UPDRS Part II+III score, the change from baseline was considered not 
clinically  relevant.  Only  one  patient  switched  to  {TRADE  NAME}  prolonged-release  tablets 
experienced a drug related adverse event leading to withdrawal. 
The  subgroup  analyses  in study  248.636 further  suggested that  switching  might  be  more  difficult in 
patients ≥65 years of age and in patients on levodopa therapy. Since no data concerning pramipexole 
prolonged-release in advanced PD patients were available, the CHMP requested the MAH to discuss 
whether  ER  should  be  restricted to  the  population  <65  years  and  the indication  should  be  restricted 
only to “signs and symptoms for early PD”. 
19/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response the MAH elaborated further on data from study 248.636 with regards to analyses based on 
age and on concomitant intake of L-Dopa. A summary of this discussion is included below.    
Analyses based on age 
Percentage  of  patients  successfully  switched  by  age  groups  (sub-group  analysis):  Of  the  103 
pramipexole  ER  patients,  55  patients  were  younger  than  65  years  and  48  patients  were  65  years  or 
older. Results of the sub-group efficacy analysis by age category are given below: 
• 
• 
In patients younger than 65 years, 45 of 55 (81.8%) were successfully switched 
In patients of at least 65 years, 42 of 48 (87.5%) were successfully switched The percentage of 
patients successfully switched to pramipexole ER was therefore slightly larger in patients of at 
least  65  years  (87.5%)  compared  to  patients  younger  than  65  years  (81.8%).  However,  the 
difference is considered not clinically relevant and is deemed to be due to the small number of 
patients included in this sub-group analysis. 
Influence of age as a co-variate in the model: 
In order to show the influence of age on the primary endpoint, the ANCOVA analysis was modified 
by adding age as a covariate similar to UPDRS Part II+III score at baseline. There was no effect from 
age as a covariate (p=0.1839). When using age groups (<65, ≥65 years) as a factor into the model, age 
was also non-significant (p=0.5914). 
From the data on change in UPDRS  II+III score by age groups, the MAH concluded that switching 
from pramipexole IR to pramipexole ER is possible in all patients independent of age group (<65 or 
≥65 years). 
Analyses based on concomitant intake of L-Dopa: 
Out of 103 pramipexole ER patients, 55 patients were concomitantly treated with L-Dopa, while 48 
patients  did  not  receive  a  concomitant  treatment  with  L-Dopa.  Results  of  the  sub-group  efficacy 
analysis by concomitant intake of L-Dopa are given below: 
• 
• 
In patients concomitantly treated with L-Dopa, 45 of 55 (81.8%) were successfully switched 
In patients not concomitantly treated with L-Dopa, 42 of 48 (87.5%) were successfully switched 
The percentage  of  patients  successfully  switched  to  pramipexole  ER  was  therefore  slightly  lower in 
patients  receiving  a  concomitant  treatment  with  L-Dopa  (81.8%)  compared  to  patients  not 
concomitantly  treated  with  L-Dopa  (87.5%).  However,  the  difference  is  considered  not  clinically 
relevant and is deemed to be due to the small number of patients included in this sub-group analysis. 
With pramipexole ER, the mean and median improvements from baseline in the UPDRS II+III score 
were comparable in patients with or without L-Dopa (-1.36 vs. -1.69, respectively). 
Analyses based on age and concomitant intake of L-Dopa 
Descriptive statistics are provided below in Table 29: 4 for the change in UPDRS  II+III in the four 
following sub-groups of patients: 
•  Patients < 65 years and treated with L-Dopa 
•  Patients < 65 years and not treated with L-Dopa 
•  Patients ≥ 65 years and treated with L-Dopa 
•  Patients ≥ 65 years and not treated with L-Dopa 
20/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pramipexole ER group, improvements from baseline were observed in these four subgroups of 
patients, independent of age or of a concomitant treatment with L-Dopa. 
The CHMP agreed with the MAH that switching from pramipexole IR to pramipexole ER is possible 
in patients independent of age group and concomitant treatment with L-Dopa.  
In addition, with regards to the results of study 248.636, the CHMP requested the MAH to discuss the 
reasons why the predefined non-inferiority margin of -15% was not reached in the study. The CHMP 
especially wanted the MAH to elaborate on of there could be some safety related reasons explaining 
this failure.  
The MAH responded that in the 248.636 study, successful switch from open-label pramipexole IR to 
double-blind pramipexole ER or IR was defined as no worsening of the UPDRS II+III score by more 
than 15 % from baseline and no drug-related adverse  events (AE) leading to withdrawal. The sample 
size was based on being able to claim non-inferiority in percentages of patients with a worsening in 
UPDRS II+III. score from baseline ≤ 15% after being switched. A sample size of 120 patients (PPS) 
was expected to be sufficient for testing the following two hypotheses: 1) Assuming a non-inferiority 
margin of 15% and a success rate of 95% in the IR group and 91.5% in the ER group (i.e. expected 
between-group difference of-3.5%). 2) Assuming a non-inferiority margin of 20% and a success rate 
of 90% in the IR group and 85% in the ER group (i.e. expected between-group difference of -5%). 
Considering  the  bioequivalence  data  from  Phase  I  trial,  it  was  assumed  that switching  at  same  total 
daily dose, without a worsening >15% from baseline in the UPDRS II+III score, should be possible in 
at least 85% patients in the ER group, and that the expected between-group difference should not be 
greater than -5%. The observed between groups difference was -9.76 %, i.e. larger than expected. 
In  most  patients  with  a  relative  change  from  baseline  >15%,  the  absolute  difference  compared  to 
baseline in the UPDRS II+III score was small and not clinically relevant (≤5 points) and the patient 
was  still  considered  well-controlled  (based  on  PGI-I  and/or  CGI-I).  Four  (3.8%)  pramipexole  ER 
patients  and  3  (5.8%)  pramipexole  IR  patients  discontinued  prematurely  the  trial.  None  of  them 
discontinued prematurely due to lack of efficacy.  
The absolute change in the UPDRS II+III score (adjusted mean) from baseline to Week 9 was larger in 
pramipexole ER group (-1.6 points) compared to pramipexole IR group (-0.5 points), resulting in an 
adjusted mean difference between the two groups of -1.1 points, and a 95% CI of [-2.8, 0.6]. It should 
be noted that this CI does not include the value “-3 points”, which was the predefined non-inferiority 
margin between pramipexole ER and IR, for the final non-inferiority test in the early PD trial 248.524. 
This non-inferiority margin of -3 points in early PD patients was agreed by Health Authorities with the 
MAH during a meeting with the Rapporteur on September 28th 2006. The lower bound of the 95% CI 
for  the  between-group  difference  in  the  adjusted  mean  change  from  baseline  in  the  UPDRS  II+III 
score  was  -2.8  points. Therefore,  with the  same  non-inferiority  margin  of  -3  points  as  predefined  in 
trial  248.524,  the  non-inferiority  of  pramipexole  ER  versus  IR  would  have  been  established  in  the 
21/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
switch trial. On all secondary endpoints in Trial 248.636 (change in UPDRS II+III score, UPDRS II 
and III separately, CGI-I and PGI-I responder rates), the efficacy was always numerically better in the 
pramipexole ER group, compared to the pramipexole IR group. 
The  fact  that  formally  non-inferiority  (using  the  pre-defined  margin  of  -15%)  between  pramipexole 
ER  and  IR  could  not  be  demonstrated  is  not  due  to  differences  in  the  percentage  of  patients 
prematurely  withdrawn  due  to  a  drug-related  AE,  as  only  one  (1.0%)  of  104  patients  switched  to 
pramipexole ER was prematurely withdrawn due to a drug related AE (vertigo and nausea), and this 
patient  was  not  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis  (FAS,  LOCF)  as  he  had  no  post-baseline  efficacy 
data. In the not-successfully switched pramipexole ER patients, only one patient did not increase the 
dose due to an adverse event (hypotension). In consequence, none of the 16 pramipexole ER patients 
considered as not-successfully switched was considered as such due to a drug-related AE leading to 
premature discontinuation. All (16) pramipexole ER patients considered as not-successfully switched 
were considered as such due to a worsening of UPDRS II+III score of more than 15 % from baseline. 
The  fact  that  formally  the  non-inferiority  margin  was  not  met  is  clearly  linked  to  the  choice  of  a 
relative change instead of an absolute change for the non-inferiority margin. As stated above, with the 
same non-inferiority  margin of -3 points as pre-defined in trial 248.524, the non-inferiority between 
pramipexole ER and IR would have been established in Trial 248.636 as well. 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  MAH  response  and  considered  the  argumentation  on  this  issue 
acceptable,  the  reason  for  the  not  met  non-inferiority  criteria  being  more  due  to  the  selection  of 
relative  change  instead  of  an  absolute  change  for  the  non-inferiority  margin.  The  CHMP  confirmed 
that  the  latter  choice  of  the  non-inferiority  margin  for  the  absolute  change  -3  points  was  previously 
agreed  by  Health  Authorities  during  a  meeting  with  the  Rapporteur  on  September  28th  2006.  The 
CHMP therefore considered this issue partly resolved. The Cmax, Cmin, Cpre, AUC and Clr, SrClr values 
of the patients not successful in switch should however be presented by the MAH and compared with 
those of patients successful in switch. 
The MAH responded that the requested PK data are unfortunately not available for the switch study, 
as no blood samples for the purpose of PK investigations have been collected in this study. The only 
PK data in patients available were collected in study 248.524, including Asian and Japanese patients, 
where pramipexole ER could be taken with or without food. If any further analyses of the available PK 
data  beyond  those  already  presented  and  discussed  are  deemed  as  useful  by  the  CHMP,  the  MAH 
requested a clear guidance on the kind of analyses to be provided. 
The CHMP considered the MAH response acceptable and issue resolved.  
The  CHMP  further  concluded  that  in  the  overall  data  provided  with  this  application,  equivalent 
efficacy  between  the  test  and  the  reference  product  could  not  be  proven.  Evidence  of  efficacy  and 
safety relative to the IR formulation has not been confirmed for the ER formulation relative to the IR 
formulation. From the data available the following was established: 
•  Study 248.524. There is initial evidence of efficacy of the PR formulation against placebo. 
•  No efficacy data are available from the on going Study 248.525. 
•  Study  248.636  (”Switch  trial”)  design  is  not  ideal  to  compare  formulations,  and  formally  non-
inferiority between pramipexole ER and pramipexole IR cannot be concluded. 
The MAH was subsequently requested to comment and to provide further data.   
In their response the MAH submitted the final results from the two pivotal Phase III trials (248.524 in 
early PD and 248.525 in advanced PD) which had been completed and analysed. The final results from 
these studies are summarised below.  
Final results from Study 248.524 in early PD 
This trial was powered to test for both superiority of pramipexole ER over placebo and noninferiority 
between  pramipexole  ER and  IR  (2:2:1  randomisation  ratio  for  PPX  ER:  PPX IR:  PBO).  A  total  of 
539 patients were treated for up to 33 weeks in this trial (PPX ER: 223, PPX IR: 213 and PBO: 103). 
Doses were flexibly up-titrated, based on efficacy and tolerability. The mean (SD) final pramipexole 
22/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose  was  comparable  in  the  two  pramipexole  groups  (PPX  ER:  2.90  (1.41)  mg/day,  PPX  IR:  2.93 
(1.40)  mg/day).  Superiority  of  pramipexole  ER  over  placebo  was  demonstrated  after  18  weeks  of 
treatment  (interim  cut-off,  confirmatory  analysis)  and  after  33  weeks  of  treatment  (final  cut-off, 
descriptive analysis). Non-inferiority between pramipexole ER and pramipexole IR was demonstrated 
after 33 weeks of treatment (final cut-off, confirmatory analysis). 
Demonstration of superiority of pramipexole ER over placebo 
Superiority  of  pramipexole  ER  over  placebo  was  demonstrated  after 18  weeks  of treatment  (interim 
cut-off,  confirmatory  analysis).The  descriptive  analysis  after  33  weeks  of  treatment  has  confirmed 
superiority of pramipexole ER over placebo, as summarised further below: 
At the final (33-week) analysis, superiority of pramipexole ER over placebo was shown on both the 
primary and the key secondary efficacy endpoints (descriptive tests), in the FAS (LOCF) population. 
Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 33 in the UPDRS II+III score of -8.6 points, -8.8 points 
and -3.8 points for pramipexole ER, pramipexole IR and placebo, 0.26 mg, 0.52 mg, 1.05 mg, 2.1 mg, 
and 3.15 mg prolonged-release tablets respectively (p=0.0001 for PPX ER vs. placebo, and p<0.0001 
for PPX IR vs. placebo); CGI-I response rate of 29.4% in the placebo group, compared to 43.3% in the 
pramipexole  ER  group  and  46.1%  in the pramipexole  IR  group  (p=0.0256  for  PPX  ER  vs. placebo, 
and p=0.0078 for PPX IR vs. placebo); PGI-I response rate of 21.4% in the placebo group, compared 
to 34.4% in the pramipexole ER group and 33.3% in the pramipexole IR group (p=0.0148 for PPX ER 
vs. placebo, and p=0.0193 for PPX IR vs. placebo). 
Demonstration of non-inferiority between pramipexole ER and IR 
The non-inferiority hypothesis comparing pramipexole ER to pramipexole IR was tested using a non-
inferiority margin of -3 points for the between-group difference in the change from baseline to Week 
33 of the UPDRS II+III score.  
Demonstration of non-inferiority between pramipexole ER and IR at the final (33-week) analysis with 
regards to the primary efficacy endpoint (UPDRS II+III score) 
The adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 33 in the UPDRS II+III score was -8.6 points for 
pramipexole ER and -8.8 points for pramipexole IR, a between-group difference of -0.2 points and a 
95% CI of this difference of [-2.2; 1.7], in the PPS (OC) population. The lower bound of this 95% CI 
(-2.2 points) was higher than the pre-defined non-inferiority margin of -3 points. These non-inferiority 
data are  further supported by  the  CGI-I  and  PGI-I  responder  rates,  showing  an overlap  between  the 
95% CI for CGI-I and PGI-I responder rates in the pramipexole ER and IR groups: CGI-I responder 
rate: Pramipexole ER: 43.3%, 95% CI [36.5, 50.3] Pramipexole IR: 46.1%, 95% CI [39.2, 53.2] 0.26 
mg, 0.52 mg, 1.05 mg, 2.1 mg, and 3.15 mg prolonged-release tablets. 
PGI-I responder rate: 
Pramipexole ER: 34.4%, 95% CI [28.1, 41.2] 
Pramipexole IR: 33.3%, 95% CI [27.0, 40.2] 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAH  and  concluded  that  both  primary  and 
secondary efficacy analyses confirm efficacy of ER against placebo and non-inferiority against IR in 
PD.  
Final results from Study 248.525 in advanced PD: 
This  trial  was  powered  to test  for  superiority  of  pramipexole  ER  over  placebo  (1:1:1  randomisation 
ratio for PPX ER: PPX IR: PBO). A total of 517 patients were treated for up to 33 weeks in this trial 
(PPX ER: 164, PPX IR: 175 and PBO: 178). Doses were flexibly up-titrated, based on efficacy and 
tolerability.  The  mean  (SD)  final  pramipexole  dose  was  comparable  in  the  two  pramipexole  groups 
(PPX ER: 2.76 (1.44) mg/day, PPX IR: 2.77 (1.42) mg/day). This 33-week study was concluded after 
the  last  patient  completed  18  weeks  of  treatment.  Superiority  of  pramipexole  ER  over  placebo  was 
assessed  after  18  weeks  of  treatment  (confirmatory  analysis)  and  after  33  weeks  of  treatment 
(descriptive analysis). 
23/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demonstration of superiority of pramipexole ER over placebo 
Superiority  of  pramipexole  ER  over  placebo  was  demonstrated  after  18  weeks  of  treatment  on  both 
primary  and  key  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  (confirmatory  analysis).  Adjusted  mean  change  from 
baseline  to  Week  18  in  the  UPDRS  II+III  score  of  -11.0  points,  -12.8  points  and  -6.1  points  for 
pramipexole  ER,  pramipexole  IR  and  placebo,  respectively  (p=0.0001  for  PPX  ER  vs.  placebo,  and 
p<0.0001 for PPX IR vs. placebo). 
Adjusted  mean  change  from  baseline  in  percentage  off-time  of  -13.3  points,  -15.9  points  and  -8.8 
points  for  pramipexole  ER,  pramipexole  IR  and  placebo,  respectively  (p  =  0.0122  for  PPX  ER  vs. 
placebo, and p < 0.0001 for PPX IR vs. placebo). The corresponding adjusted mean changes in hours 
were  -2.1  hours,  -2.5  hours  and  -1.4  hours  for  pramipexole  ER,  pramipexole  IR  and  placebo, 
respectively (p = 0.0199 for PPX ER vs. placebo, and p < 0.0001 for PPX IR vs. placebo). 
The  descriptive  analysis,  after  33  weeks  of  treatment,  also  demonstrated  superiority  of  pramipexole 
ER over placebo. Adjusted mean change from baseline to Week 33 in the UPDRS II+III score of -11.1 
points for pramipexole ER, -11.5 points for pramipexole IR, and -6.8 points for placebo; (p=0.0135 for 
PPX ER vs. placebo, and p=0.0051 for PPX IR vs. placebo).  
Demonstration of comparable efficacy of pramipexole ER and IR 
This trial was not designed nor powered for a formal non-inferiority test between pramipexole ER and 
IR. Overall, there was no clinically relevant difference in terms of efficacy between pramipexole ER 
and  pramipexole  IR  (numerical  comparison).  The  change  from  baseline  in  the  UPDRS  II+III  score 
was clinically relevant for both formulations. As there is an overlap in the 95% CIs for the adjusted 
mean  change  from  baseline  to  week  33  in  the  UPDRS  II+III  score  for  the  two  pramipexole  groups 
(ER: [-13.7, -8.4], IR: [-14.0, -9.0]), it cannot be concluded that either formulation is superior. 
Demonstration of equivalent safety of pramipexole ER and IR 
In  this  trial,  adverse  events  were  reported  less  frequently  in  the  pramipexole  ER  group  (54.9%) 
compared  to  the  pramipexole  IR  group  (64.0%).  Dizziness  was  reported  less  frequently  in  the 
pramipexole ER group (4.9%) compared to the pramipexole IR group(10.3%). Otherwise, the safety 
profile of pramipexole ER and IR tablets was comparable, at comparable daily doses and duration of 
treatment.  
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAH  and  concluded  that  both  primary  and 
secondary  efficacy  analyses  confirm  efficacy  and  safety  of  ER  against  placebo  and  non-inferiority 
against IR in late PD. 
Clinical safety 
The safety and tolerability profile of PPX ER were similar to the profile of PPX IR both when used to 
treat  patients  with  early  PD  not  on  levodopa  and  when  used  to  treat  patients  with  advanced  PD  on 
concomitant levodopa. PPX ER does not appear to differ from PPX IR in regards to the frequency of 
overall  adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  adverse  events  leading  to  drug  discontinuation; 
frequency of common adverse events; or frequency of adverse events of special interest. In an active-
control clinical trial, only one of 104 (1.0%) patients discontinued drug treatment due to an adverse 
event when blindly switched overnight from PPX IR to PPX ER at the same daily dose. No new or 
unexpected safety or tolerability issue emerged during the clinical development program of PPX ER. 
Patient exposure 
The  safety  data  presented  are  presented  pooled  from  the  placebo-controlled  studies  248.524  and 
248.525 for the patients treated up to 18 weeks. A total of 1015 patients were treated in these trials: 
370 PPX ER, 377 PPX IR and 268 placebo patients. In active controlled trials and open-label trials an 
additional  104  and  329  patients,  respectively  were  exposed  to  PPX  ER.  Thus,  803  patients  were 
exposed to adequate doses of PPX ER for an estimated 180 patient-years for safety evaluation. 
Adverse events 
For none of the adverse events there were any significant differences between PPX ER and PPX IR. 
Of the patients in the PPX ER groups 66.7% reported AE compared to 60.2% in the placebo groups. 
24/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common frequent AEs was as follows: 
Frequency of adverse events (%)   
Somnolence  
Nausea 
Constipation 
Dyskinesia 
Dizziness 
Hallucinations 
Vomiting 
PPX ER  PPX IR  Placebo 
12.7 
6.6 
3.6 
3.6 
6.6 
0.6 
1.8 
20.5 
15.2 
10.5 
9.5 
6.2 
4.3 
2.4 
21.4 
15.0 
10.9 
8.6 
12.7 
5.9 
5.0 
Only  6.2%  of  the  AEs  in  the  PPX  ER  patients  were  rated  as  severe.  Sleepiness,  orthostatic 
hypotension  and  abnormal  behaviour  were  defined  as  AEs  of  special  interest  in  the  PPX  ER 
development program, but the frequencies were general low and no significant differences were seen 
between PPX ER, PPX IR and placebo groups. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The  frequency  of  severe  AE  were  similar  for  all  3  groups  and  only  5  patients  with  hallucinations 
requiring  hospitalisation  were  considered  drug-related  (3  ER  and  2  IR  patients).  Two  deaths  are 
described, one from lip/oral cancer and one from a rectal cancer, neither was considered drug-related. 
Laboratory findings 
None reported. 
Safety in special populations 
Paediatric patients and pregnant women were not treated, so no data on these groups can be given. 
No  clinically  data  is  reported  for  renally  and  hepatically  impaired  patients,  so  the  same 
recommendations as for PPX IR were recommended by the CHMP. 
Immunological events 
None reported. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
None reported, but only few were expected, and data for PPX IR was considered sufficient. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Relatively few patients discontinued due to AE: 
Frequency of adverse events leading to discontinuation (%) 
Hallucinations 
Nausea 
Somnolence 
PPX ER  PPX IR  Placebo 
0 
0.6 
0 
0.5 
1.0 
0.5 
1.8 
0.9 
1.4 
Overall, AEs were of mild or moderate intensity. The CHMP concluded, that PPX is very similar to 
PPX IR with regards to adverse events, and no new or unexpected adverse event have been reported in 
the studies on PPX ER presented. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  MAH  fulfils  the 
legislative  requirements.  The  Pharmacovigilance  system  also  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the 
MAH has the services of a qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary 
25/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means for the notification of any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or 
in a third country. 
In  view  of  addition  of  a  new  pharmaceutical  form  associated  with  additional  strengths,  the  periodic 
safety  update  reports  will  be  submitted  every  six  months  during  two  years,  once  a  year  for  the 
following two years and thereafter at three-yearly intervals. 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
With  this  application  the  MAH  submitted  a  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  for  pramipexole 
prolonged-release tablets. 
Pramipexole  prolonged-release tablets  is  an extended  release formulation  of  pramepixole  immediate 
release (pramepixole IR) which was approved in the EU more than ten years ago. The MAH has used 
the  data  on  the  safety  of  pramepixole  IR  as  well  as  data  from  the  clinical  development  program  of 
pramepixole ER.  
In assessing the RMP the CHMP considered that information on toxicity, general pharmacology, drug 
interactions and other toxicity related information for pramepixole was lacking and therefore asked the 
MAH to update the RMP with this information. The CHMP also requested the MAH to present the 
RMP in a stand alone format since several of the sections of the RMP initially submitted used previous 
PSURs of pramepixole IR as references. The MAH responded by submitting an updated version of the 
RMP.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  updated  RMP  contains  the  relevant  information  regarding 
general pharmacology, drug interactions and other toxicity related information for pramepixole. 
The  MAH  also  did  not  include  the  established  risks  of  pramepixole  treatment  in  the  RMP  initially 
submitted, but discussed only newly identified risks in detail. The MAH was therefore requested by 
the CHMP to provide more extensive information. 
In  response  the  MAH  submitted  a  list  and  subsequent  text  parts  with  details  of  identified  potential 
risks associated with pramipexole treatment regardless of the fact that these risks have been mentioned 
in  previous  pramipexole  immediate  release  RMP’s  were  prepared  and  included  in  section  1.5.2.10-
1.5.2.20, 1.10, 2.2-2.6, and 7 of the updated RMP, Module 1.8.2. the CHMP considered the updated 
sections acceptable.   
The MAH was also requested by the CHMP to elaborate on how the design of the packaging, the PIL 
and the SPC reduces the risk of medication error and to explain how the risk of medication errors will 
be further monitored. In their response the MAH explained that in order to minimise the occurrence of 
medication errors such as inadequate frequency of dosing or crushing of the pramipexole prolonged-
release  tablets,  potentially  carrying  a  risk  of  overdose,  the  packaging  and  tablet  design  is  aimed  to 
ensure  a  clear  differentiation  of  the  two  pramipexole  formulations  by  health  care  professionals, 
patients  and  care  givers.  The  prolonged  release  tablets  are  different  in  shape,  size,  and  embossing 
compared to the immediate release tablet and will not contain a break score. The name and strength of 
the product appearing on each blister that in addition is of different size compared to the immediate 
release tablets allows an identification of the formulation also in case the blister will not be stored in 
the  original  pack  by  the  patient.  The  proper  naming,  design  and  packaging  of  the  product  and  the 
physician (SPC) and patient (PL) labeling documents, allows an identification of the products diversity 
and are regarded as adequate measures to minimize medication errors. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  MAH  is  taking  the  risk  of  medication  error  seriously  and  has  given 
much  consideration  regarding  the  design  and  labelling  of  the  product.  Furthermore,  a  sufficient 
description  of  the  monitoring  of  medication  errors  has  been  provided.  The  committee  subsequently 
considered the issue resolved.  
Summary of safety concern and planned Pharmacovigilance actions 
Identified risks will be followed up by the MAH in terms of updated frequency estimation from the 
MAH’s clinical trial database (project database). Planned and ongoing Pharmacovigilance activities to 
characterise  the  potential  risks  include  clinical  trials.  No  important  missing  information  had  been 
identified. The table below summarises the planned actions according to the important risks. 
26/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan: 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(Routine and Additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities
(Routine and Additional) 
Binge eating, 
Compulsive shopping, 
Pathological gambling, 
Hypersexuality and 
other Abnormal 
behaviour 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Continued pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data base 
including new PD IR, PD ER and 
RLS studies as soon as available. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Trial 248.619 (DOMINION): 
cross-sectional, retrospective 
screening and case-control study 
in PD patients treated with 
pramipexole and other 
antiparkinson drugs, completed 
Trial 248.659: Observational 
RLS study, ongoing 
27/32 
The following information is 
included in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
(Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Impulse control disorders and 
compulsive behaviours: Pathological 
gambling, increased libido and 
hypersexuality have been reported in 
patients treated with dopamine 
agonists for Parkinson’s disease, 
including {TRADE NAME}. 
Furthermore, patients and caregivers 
should be aware of the fact that other 
behavioural symptoms of impulse 
control disorders and compulsions 
such as binge eating and compulsive 
shopping can occur. Dose 
reduction/tapered discontinuation 
should be considered. 
Behavioural symptoms of impulse 
control disorders and compulsions 
are described as common, 
compulsive shopping, hypersexuality, 
pathological gambling as uncommon 
and binge eating as psychiatric 
disorders with unknown frequency in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC 
(Undesirable effects).  
Furthermore the following 
information is provided in Section 
4.8 of the SmPC (Undesirable 
effects): 
Impulse control disorders and 
compulsive behaviours: Patients 
treated with dopamine agonists for 
Parkinson’s disease, including 
{TRADE NAME}, especially at high 
doses, have been reported as 
exhibiting signs of pathological 
gambling, increased libido and 
hypersexuality, generally reversible 
upon reduction of the dose or 
treatment discontinuation (see also 
section 4.4). 
In a cross-sectional, retrospective 
screening and case-control study 
including 3,090 Parkinson’s disease 
patients, 13.6% of all patients 
 
receiving dopaminergic or non-
dopaminergic treatment had 
symptoms of an impulse control 
disorder during the past six months. 
Manifestations observed include 
pathological gambling, compulsive 
shopping, binge eating, and 
compulsive sexual behaviour 
(hypersexuality). Possible 
independent risk factors for impulse 
control disorders included 
dopaminergic treatments and higher 
doses of dopaminergic treatment, 
younger age ( ≤ 65 years), not being 
married and self-reported family 
history of gambling behaviours. 
Suicide-related 
behaviour 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Augmentation, post 
treatment worsening 
after withdrawal and 
rebound in RLS 
patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Trial 248.629: randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
dose titration trial with 
pramipexole to investigate the 
long-term efficacy, safety and 
tolerability in patients with RLS; 
completed 
The following information is 
included in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
(Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Augmentation: Reports in the 
literature indicate that treatment of 
Restless Legs Syndrome with 
dopaminergic medicinal products 
can result in augmentation. 
Augmentation refers to the earlier 
onset of symptoms in the evening (or 
even the afternoon), increase in 
symptoms, and spread of symptoms 
to involve other extremities. The 
controlled trials of {TRADE NAME} 
in patients with Restless Legs 
Syndrome were generally not of 
sufficient duration to adequately 
capture augmentation phenomena. 
The frequency of augmentation after 
longer use of {TRADE NAME} and 
the appropriate management of these 
events have not been evaluated in 
controlled clinical trials. 
SIADH 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Planned pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data 
concerning SIADH 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Delirium/Mania 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Planned pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data 
28/32 
 
concerning delirium/mania  
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Dyspnoea 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Continued pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data base 
including new PD IR, PD ER and 
RLS studies as soon as available. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Dyspnoea is described as uncommon 
respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal 
disorders in section 4.8 of the SmPC 
(Undesirable effects). 
Pneumonia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Continued pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data base 
including new PD IR, PD ER and 
RLS studies as soon as available. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Pneumonia is described as 
uncommon infection in section 4.8 of 
the SmPC (Undesirable effects). 
Bronchitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Continued pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data base 
including new PD IR, PD ER and 
RLS studies as soon as available. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Cardiac failure 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Continued pooled analysis of 
controlled clinical trial data base 
including new PD IR, PD ER and 
RLS studies as soon as available. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN PSUR 
Retinal degeneration 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Trial 248.538: randomised, 
parallel group, ophthalmologic 
safety study, ongoing 
The following information is 
included in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
(Special warnings and precautions 
for use): Ophthalmologic monitoring 
is recommended at regular intervals 
or if vision abnormalities occur. 
The following information is 
included in section 5.3 of the SmPC 
(Preclinical safety data): […] at 
doses of 2 mg/kg (of salt) and higher, 
pramipexole was associated with 
retinal degeneration in albino rats. 
The latter finding was not observed 
in pigmented rats, nor in a 2-year 
albino mouse carcinogenicity study 
or in any other species investigated. 
Decreased 
appetite/Anorexia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE 
Skin melanoma 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE 
Diplopia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
29/32 
 
Visual disturbance including vision 
blurred and visual acuity reduced is 
described as common eye disorder in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC 
(Undesirable effects). Diplopia is 
considered as coverd by this 
description. 
Photopsia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
Visual disturbance including vision 
blurred and visual acuity reduced is 
described as common eye disorder in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC 
(Undesirable effects). Photopsia is 
considered as coverd by this 
description. 
Fibrotic events 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Substance abuse/Drug 
dependence 
Response-based 
behaviour 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Hyperreflexia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE 
Dystonia 
Overdose 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
NONE. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimisation activities. 
PERIODIC REVIEW IN THE BI 
GLOBAL DRUG SAFETY 
DATABASE 
The following information is 
included in section 4.9 of the SmPC 
(Overdose): There is no clinical 
experience with massive overdose. 
The expected adverse reactions 
would be those related to the 
pharmacodynamic profile of a 
dopamine agonist, including nausea, 
vomiting, hyperkinesia, 
hallucinations, agitation and 
hypotension. There is no established 
antidote for overdose of a dopamine 
agonist. If signs of central nervous 
system stimulation are present, a 
neuroleptic agent may be indicated. 
Management of the overdose may 
require general supportive measures, 
along with gastric lavage, 
intravenous fluids, administration of 
activated charcoal and 
electrocardiogram monitoring. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
The safety specification and planned Pharmacovigilance activities are considered adequate. 
30/32 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  new  pharmaceutical  form  –  prolonged-release  tablets  with  associated  new  strengths  have  been 
adequately  described.  The  excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  product  and  the  manufacturing 
process  selected  are  appropriate.  The  results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  drug  product  can  be 
reproducibility  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance in clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve 
this as Follow-Up Measure after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No  specific  non-clinical  pharmacological  and  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  for 
pramipexole  in  the  ER  formulation.  Non-clinical  toxicology  studies  have  been performed  to  qualify 
three potential degradation products of pramipexole ER tablets. These potential degradation products 
are  CD10503,  Product  V  and  Product  Z.  Several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  studies  were 
conducted by the MAH due to the genotoxic potential of these degradation products. The genotoxic 
potential was indicated in either structural elucidation or in studies pertinent to pramipexole IR tablets. 
The  MAH  proposed  a  hypothesis  regarding  the  genotoxicity  of  CD10503  which  the  CHMP  found 
reasonable. Data indicates that CD 10503 did not have a separate effect but all relevant findings were 
from pramipexole being a very potent dopamine agonist. The genotoxic potential of the degradation 
products  V  and  Z  is  likely  to be caused  by the release  of  catechol  from  these  degradation  products. 
The mixture of Products V and Z as well as catechol were negative in the Ames test.    
Efficacy 
The efficacy  and  safety  of  pramipexole  (PPX)  has  previously  been  demonstrated  in  clinical  studies, 
and  the  IR  tablets  are  registered  with  the  indication  treatment  of  patients  with  early  and  advanced 
Parkinson’s disease (PD). 
Although  efficacy  was  established in the  pivotal  clinical  trials (248.524  in  early  PD  and  248.525  in 
advanced PD) there were a few issues that needed to be resolved. Following assessment the CHMP 
still  did  not  find  it  clear  what  the  significance  of  the  variability  in  PK  along  with  food  intake, 
interactions and interethnic differences is for the efficacy. The MAH therefore committed to perform a 
further  evaluation  of  these  factors,  taking  into  account  also  efficacy  and  PK  data  of  the  currently 
ongoing  Japanese  Phase  III  trial  248.610.  In  addition,  examples  of  interacting  agents  may  not  be 
enough  in  the  SPC,  since  the  PK  variability  may  be  relevant  for  efficacy.  The  MAH  therefore 
committed to perform an in-depth evaluation of all potential substances interacting with pramipexole 
and  also  to  take  a  proactive  role  for  evaluating  interactions  of  pramipexole  with  commonly  used 
hOCT2-inhibitors  like  ranitidine  and  trimetoprime.  The  MAH  also  committed  to  review  relevant 
literature on genetic variation in transporter hOCT2 on a regular basis and provide updates with each 
PSUR/RMP. 
Safety 
Overall, Adverse Events were of mild or moderate intensity. The CHMP concluded, that pramipexole 
prolonged-release tablets is very similar to pramipexole immediate release tablets as to adverse events, 
and no new or unexpected adverse event have been reported in the studies on PPX ER presented. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management 
plan, the CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed 
these. 
31/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Although  the  benefits  of  pramipexole  prolonged-release  tablets  seem  limited,  the  formulation  is 
effective in the intended population, however, in a clinical setting, a proportion of PD patients (about 
15%, compared to 6% in the IR group) did not meet the criterion for maintained efficacy on UPDRS 
Part  II+III  score  even  after  dose  adaptation.  In  half  of  these  patients  the  difference  in  efficacy  on 
UPDRS part II and III score was not considered to be clinically relevant. This is however adequately 
reflected  in  section  4.2  and  5.1  of  the  SPC.  From  a  clinical  perspective  the  risk  associated  with 
pramipexole prolonged-release tablets is similar to the risk for pramipexole immediate release tablets, 
thus acceptable. The overall Benefit/Risk of Mirapexin is therefore considered positive.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus decision that the risk-benefit balance of Mirapexin extended release tablets in the treatment 
of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  disease,  alone  (without  levodopa)  or  in 
combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, through to late stages when the effect 
of levodopa wears off or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the therapeutic effect occur (end of 
dose or “on off” fluctuations) was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of an extension 
of the marketing authorisation. 
32/32 
 
 
 
 
 
