London, 6 April 2006 
Product name: Mirapexin 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/134/II/36 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Pramipexole  is  a  non-ergot  dopamine  agonist  with  high  in  vitro  specificity  at  the  D2  subfamily  of 
dopamine  receptors.  Pramipexole  is  a  full  agonist  and  exhibits  higher  affinity  for  the  D3  receptor 
subtype than for D2 or D4 receptor subtypes. It is structurally different from the ergot-derived drugs.  
Pramipexole  tablets  were  approved  in  the  US  in  1997  for  the  treatment  of  signs  and  symptoms  of 
Parkinson’s  disease,  followed  by  marketing  authorisations  in  the  European  Union  (EU),  Norway, 
Switzerland, Australia, Canada, Japan, Eastern European countries, countries in the Near and Far East, 
and South America. 
In addition to the approved indication in advanced and early stage Parkinson’s disease the MAH has 
submitted an application for the extension of the indication to  
“Mirapexin  tablets  are  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  idiopathic  Restless  Legs  Syndrome 
(RLS)". 
Consequential  changes  were  introduced  in  section  4.2  (dose  adjustment),  4.4  (augmentation 
phenomenon),  4.8  (hallucination)  and  5.1  (addition  of  subheadings  “Clinical  trials  in  Parkinson’s 
disease” and “Clinical trials in Restless Legs Syndrome”). 
RLS  is  a  neurological  sensory-motor  disorder  characterised  by  four  essential  diagnostic  criteria 
defined by the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group (IRLSSG) in 1995 and updated in 
2003, with an estimated prevalence in the general population of 2.5% to 15%. The majority of patients 
who consult a primary care physician receive inappropriate treatment. The current treatment options 
for RLS are levodopa/benserazide. Although treatment with levodopa is effective in the short term, the 
long-term  use  of  levodopa  is  complicated  by  the  frequent  occurrence  of  augmentation.  Dopamine 
agonists,  including  pramipexole,  were  regarded  as  first  line  treatment  in  ‘Principles  and  Practice  of 
Sleep Medicine’ (3rd Ed., Saunders, 2000).  
Prior  to  initiation  of  pivotal  clinical  trials,  the  MAH  sought  scientific  advice  from  CHMP  on  the 
clinical trial programme (EMEA/CHM P/5122/02, 17 October 2002). 
The CHMP asked for a 3-month double-blind placebo controlled study to assess short-term efficacy. 
However  for  the  assessment  of  maintenance  efficacy  randomised  double-blind trials  of  6-12  months 
duration were deemed necessary. In these trials also rebound and augmentation were to be evaluated. 
The RLS rating scale was considered an adequate endpoint for the pivotal trials. The primary analysis 
based on mean difference from baseline may be strengthened by a secondary responder analysis. The 
MAH did not consider it feasible to run a 6-month parallel group, placebo controlled study as the drop 
out rate in the placebo group was expected to be very high, which could have led to an imbalanced 
treatment group size at the end of the study jeopardizing the acceptance of the statistical analysis. In 
such a situation the ICH guideline topic E 10 recommends a long-term, placebo-controlled withdrawal 
design. The MAH expected that a long-term trial (6-12 months duration) would be jeopardized by a 
high drop out rate in the placebo group and therefore chose a withdrawal design. However, the ICH 
guideline  E10  does  not  specify  that  an  expected  high  dropout  rate  necessarily  should  lead  to  the 
preference  of  the  withdrawal  design.  It  is  the  opinion  of  the  CHMP  that  a  positive  6-12  months 
placebo controlled trial would lead to significant more information with regard to efficacy and safety. 
The CHMP proposed a long-term active comparator trial with levodopa as the best choice. An active 
comparator study with L-dopa/benserazide was not performed as this combination was registered for 
idiopathic RLS only in Germany and Switzerland. Thus it could not be regarded as an accepted ‘gold 
standard’  throughout  Europe.  Although  levodopa/benserazide  was  not  approved  in  all  involved 
countries, a comparative trial would have provided very valuable insight into the efficacy and safety of 
pramipexole (e.g. augmentation). This is further exemplified by the fact that 42% of patients in study 
248.546 had previously taken dopa and dopa derivatives. 
The  CHMP  accepted  the  concept  of  the  inclusion  of  a  mixed  population  in  the  development 
programme, including pre-treated and de novo patients. The MAH included a mixed population in the 
development  programme,  including  pre-treated  and  de  novo  patients.  The  inclusion  of  a  mixed 
population was endorsed by both parties. This gives an opportunity for post-hoc/secondary analysis of 
efficacy in relation to baseline disease state (IRLSRS/CGI). 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
2 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
2.  
Quality aspects 
For  the  new  indication  doses  of  up  to  0.75  mg  salt  will  be  recommended.  Considering  that  tablets 
containing 0.75 mg salt are not readily available, this dose can be administered in the form of 3 tablets 
containing 0.25 mg salt corresponding to 0.54 mg base or 1 tablet each containing 0.5 mg and 0.25 mg 
salt corresponding to 0.53 mg base. The CHMP considered it acceptable to express the dose as 0.54 
mg base in the product information. 
3.  
Non clinical aspects 
The definitive pathophysiology of RLS has not been determined, but neuropharmacological evidence 
might  suggest  a  mild  striatal  presynaptic  dopaminergic  dysfunction.  A  disinhibition  of  normal  CNS 
pacemakers  has  also  been  suggested.  There  is  not  any  special  animal  model  for  this  disorder.  To 
support treatment of Parkinson’s disease, pramipexole underwent a comprehensive pharmacodynamic, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicological evaluation, which data has been provided in the initial marketing 
authorisation  application  (MAA).  The  MAH’s  conclusion  of  the  nonclinical  safety  assessment 
provided  for  pramipexole  in  Parkinson’s  disease  is  therefore  endorsed.  No  safety  concerns  are 
predicted from the preclinical point of view associated with the use of pramipexole to RLS patients, in 
whom the exposure will be substantially lower than that for patients with Parkinson’s disease. 
4.  
Clinical aspects 
Clinical trials conducted outside the community 
According  to  Art.  8.3(ib)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  and  Art.  6  of  Regulation  (EC)  No. 
726/2004, the MAH was asked to provide a statement on that the clinical trials conducted outside the 
community  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  ethical  standards  of  Directive  2001/20/EC.  The 
MAH responded that study 248.543 was performed in the US and in the study report it is stated: "The 
trial  was  carried  out  in  compliance  with  the  protocol,  the  principles  laid  down  in  the  Declaration  of 
Helsinki  (1996  Version),  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  tripartite  Guideline  for  Good  Clinical  Practice 
(GCP)  and  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  regulatory  requirements,  which  was  considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
Pramipexole 
tablets  containing  0.125mg,  0.25mg,  and  0.5mg  pramipexole  dihydrochloride 
monohydrate  (corresponding  to  0.088  mg  and  0.35  mg  pramipexole  base)  were  used  in  the  RLS 
clinical trial programme. These 3 dose strengths are already approved / marketed in the EU. For study 
248.543 carried out in the US, the same formulation was used. 
4.1  
Clinical pharmacology 
To support the RLS indication, the steady state pharmacokinetics of pramipexole tablets administered 
once  daily  to  RLS  patients  was  investigated  as  a  sub-study  of  study  248.546.  No  other  clinical 
pharmacology  studies  profiling  the  pharmacokinetics  of  pramipexole  were  conducted  as  part  of  the 
RLS development programme. 
The  study  was  performed  during  the  6-month  open-label,  uncontrolled  phase  of  the  study  248.546, 
during  which  all  patients  were  titrated  to  an  individually  optimised  dose  within  the  first  four  weeks 
(starting dose = 0.125 mg; maximum dose = 0.75 mg).  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  25  patients  suffering  from  idiopathic 
RLS  provided  evidence  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  pramipexole  is  generally  comparable  between 
this  study  and  previous  studies  with  pramipexole  in  healthy  volunteers  and  patients  suffering  from 
Parkinson’s  disease.  However,  the  pharmacokinetic  information  gained  from  the  present  study  is 
limited, but since the dose used in RLS is lower than in Parkinson’s disease patients and no other PK 
factors  are  believed  to  differ  significantly  between  healthy  subjects  and  RLS  patients,  the  present 
study is considered sufficient with regard to PK in patients with RLS. Effects of gender, age and renal 
function on the pharmacokinetics of pramipexole are essentially the same as previously reported and 
therefore no new statement is proposed for the SPC. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
© EMEA 2006 
3 of 29 
 
4.2  
Clinical efficacy 
4.2.1   Introduction 
To  confirm  efficacy  and  safety  in  this  therapeutic  indication  the  MAH  set  up  a  clinical  trial 
programme  consisting  of  four  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trials.  This  programme 
included approximately 1000 patients treated for up to 12 weeks. Open continuation trials lasted for up 
to 1 year. The clinical study programme consisted of the following studies: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Pivotal trial: Study 248.543. Multicentre fixed-dose trial conducted in the US 
Pivotal trial: Study 248.546. Multicentre European (German) sustained efficacy trial 
Supportive trial: Study 248.515. Single-centre polysomnography study 
Supportive trial: Study 248.520. Multicentre European flexible-dose trial 
4.2.2 Clinical trials 
Study 248.543 
Methods 
With  this  study,  short-term  (12  weeks)  efficacy  and  safety  of  pramipexole  was  evaluated  in  a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose design. Patients were randomised to placebo 
or 0.25 mg,  0.5 mg, or 0.75 mg of pramipexole. The focus  was  on clinical parameters of  RLS. The 
primary  endpoint  was  the  change  in  the  Restless  Legs  Syndrome  Rating  Scale  (RLSRS)  score  from 
baseline  and  Clinical  Global  Impression  -  Improvement  (CGI-I)  after  12  weeks  of  treatment.  The 
fixed-dose design permitted a direct comparison of the different pramipexole doses with placebo. In 
addition, augmentation was evaluated using the Augmentation Severity Rating Scale (ASRS). In total, 
344 patients were treated and constituted the safety population. The study was conducted in 45 centres 
(43 centres treated patients) in the US. 
The primary endpoint was the change in RLSRS total score from baseline to Week 12 (ANCOVA) 
and the proportion of CGI-I responders at Week 12 (CMH). For the last observation carried forward 
(LOCF)  method,  the  latest  value  available  was  used  for  endpoint  calculation.  Secondary  endpoints 
were  the  Clinical  Global  Impression  (CGI)  subscales  (severity  of  illness,  therapeutic  effect,  side 
effects),  RLSRS-responders,  level  of  daytime  sleepiness  (ESS),  change  in  visual  analogue  scales 
(VAS)  of  RLS  severity,  Patient  Global  Impression  (PGI),  Augmentation  Severity  Rating  Scale 
(ASRS), and RLS-related quality of life (Johns Hopkins RLS-QoL).  
In the placebo group 75 patients (87.2%), and in the overall pramipexole group 206 patients (79.8%) 
completed  the  study.  Among  the  pramipexole  dose  groups  88.6%  (0.25  mg),  76.3%  (0.5  mg),  and 
74.4% (0.75 mg) completed the study. In the placebo group 12.8% of patients discontinued the study 
prematurely compared with 11.4% (0.25 mg), 23.8% (0.5 mg), and 25.6% (0.75 mg) for each of the 
pramipexole dose groups. The most frequent reason for premature discontinuation was the occurrence 
of  adverse  events  in  7.0%  (placebo),  5.7%  (0.25  mg),  13.8%  (0.5  mg),  and  17.8%  (0.75  mg)  of 
patients.  The  majority  of  patients  were  of  Caucasian  origin  (97.3%),  only  2.7%  of  patients  were  of 
African-American or Asian origin. Overall, 62.2% of patients were female and 37.8% were male, the 
mean age was 51.4 years, and the mean RLSRS total score at baseline was 23.5. 
The CHMP considered that a post-hoc analysis in patients with International restless Legs Syndrome 
study  group  Scale  (IRLSRS)  >24  (as  defined  recently  by  the  CHMP  as  moderate  to  severe  RLS) 
should  be  performed  by  the  MAH.  The  MAH  responded  that  the  results  reveal  that  pramipexole  is 
significantly more effective than placebo in patients with a RLSRS score at baseline ≤24 as well as in 
patients  with  a  RLSRS  score  at  baseline  >  24.  This  effect  is  demonstrated  across  three  trials  (study 
grouping:  double-blind  periods  of  248.515,  248.520,  248.543  in  the  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS) 
population).  Following  assessment  of  the  MAH’s  responses  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  effect 
(difference in RLSRS between placebo and pramipexole) was highest in patients with IRLSRS >24 (as 
defined by the CHMP as moderate to severe RLS). The CHMP concluded that the MAH should adapt 
the CHMP definition of moderate to severe RLS (IRLSRS > 24) and define this as the RLS population 
for which pramipexole is indicated. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
4 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
The CHMP considered that the MAH should discuss the impact of patient withdrawals in the study. 
The FAS (using LOCF) and the per-protocol set are not sufficient to estimate the extent of bias that 
has  potentially  been  introduced.  Following  the  MAH’s  responses  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
discontinuation was dose related (in contrast to the efficacy). Most of discontinued cases had “Other 
adverse  event”  stated  as  the  reason  for  discontinuation.  No  clear  differences  could  be  observed 
between placebo and pramipexole, besides the number of discontinued patients, with regard to reason 
for discontinuation. The analysis of RLSRS in patients who discontinued do not raise concern, that the 
dropout rate influence the efficacy conclusions.  
Results 
Primary endpoints 
Primary endpoint - Reduction in RLSRS 
At  Week  12,  the  adjusted  mean  changes  in  RLSRS  total  score  (p-value  vs.  placebo)  were  9.3 
(placebo), 12.8 (0.25 mg, p=0.0086), 13.8 (0.5 mg, p=0.0011), and 14.0 (0.75 mg, p=0.0005). 
The MAH stratified the treatment response with regard to baseline RLSRS score. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
5 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
Stratified analysis of response in relation to RLSRS at baseline showed that the efficacy of treatment 
(with  regard  to  RLSRS  reduction)  increased  with  increasing  RLSRS  at  baseline.  The  highest  effect 
was found in patients with high baseline RLSRS (Severe/very severe RLS). A difference of only -2.4 
in  RLSRS  found  in  patients  with  moderate  RLS  further  emphasise  this.  The  CHMP  considered  that 
there  was  a  significant  reduction  in  RLSRS  for  both  placebo  and  pramipexole  treated  patients. 
However, the difference in RLSRS response between placebo and pramipexole is of doubtful clinical 
relevance in light of the high placebo response.  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
6 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  responded  that  in  published  literature  an  adjusted  treatment  difference  of  -2.5  and  -3.0 
points  on  the  RLSRS  scale  is  described  as  clinically  relevant  in  two  studies  using  a  flexible  dose 
design.  In  light  of  the  achieved  treatment  difference  of  -4.3  points  in  a  fixed  dose  trial  this  can  be 
regarded  as  a  clinically  relevant  result.  Due  to  the  fixed  dose  design  in  study  248.543,  individual 
patients  may  not  have  received  optimal  treatment,  whereas  the  flexible  dose  design  allows  for 
individual  dose  optimisation  and  hence  increased  efficacy.  This  is  confirmed  in  the  6-week  double-
blind period of Study248.520 where a flexible dose design was used. Following the MAH’s responses 
the CHMP considered that the efficacy of pramipexole is in line with products with similar modes of 
action. 
The  CHMP  questioned  the  robustness  of  the  study as  the  results  are  changed  in  the  direction  of  the 
effect  size (in favour of placebo for very severe RLS). The MAH responded that the adjusted  mean 
effect size (SE) for placebo treated patients in RLSRS of -19.9 (7.0) is exceptional, but that this result 
is  based  on  a  small  subgroup  of  6  patients  only,  showing  a  large  standard  error  and  is  therefore 
considered not to be conclusive, as well as that  the change from  baseline in RLSRS score in severe 
and very severe RLS patients is similar (-14.8, -16.0, respectively). Following the MAH’s responses 
the CHMP considered that the exceptionally high placebo response observed for very severe RLS (and 
thus the change of direction of the effect size) may be due to small sample size. 
Primary endpoint - Proportions of CGI-I responders 
The  proportions  of  CGI-I  responders  (p-value  vs.  placebo)  were  51.2%  (placebo),  74.7%  (0.25  mg, 
p=0.0005),  67.9%  (0.5  mg,  p=0.0484),  72.9%  (0.75  mg,  p=0.0038).  At  the  final  visit,  the  RLSRS-
responder rates were (p-value vs. placebo): 42.4% (placebo), 61.4% (0.25 mg, p=0.0075), 62.0% (0.5 
mg, p=0.0124), and 62.1% (0.75 mg, p=0.0135). 
The CHMP considered that improvement in CGI-I was correlated with RLSRS. The responder rate is 
characterized by a high responder rate in placebo treated patients. 
Primary endpoint - Time course in ‘the change in RLSRS total score’ 
Assessment  of  the  time  course  of  the  primary  endpoint,  ‘the  change  in  RLSRS  total  score’  was 
analysed at Weeks 4, 6 and 12 using data of those patients, who provided an assessment after 4 weeks, 
which  was  extended,  if  necessary  by  LOCF.  After  4  weeks  the  treatment  difference  compared  to 
placebo  of  -6  points  was  highly  significant  (p<0.0001).  This  was  confirmed  after  6  weeks  (0.25mg: 
p<0.0005;  0.5mg:  p<0.0001;  0.75mg:  p<0.0001).  Due  to  the  analysis  approach  of  using  the  last 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
7 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
retrievable value, after 12 weeks the minimal treatment effect was -3.6 points, but still all doses were 
significant. Similar observations were also seen in the PPS population analysis. 
The CHMP considered that the efficacy of pramipexole seems to ware off with time (difference being 
-6 points after 4 weeks, dropping to -3.6 points, after 12 weeks). This warrants further assessments of 
efficacy  in  long-term  trials  i.e.  6  –  12  months  double  blind  trials  as  suggested  by  the  CHMP.  The 
explanation previously provided by the MAH for not conducting a study of this length (not feasible 
due to expected high dropout-rate in the placebo group) was not considered valid in light of current 
experience with pramipexole. The CHMP considered that the Study 248.546 did not provide evidence 
for  maintained  efficacy  over  9  months  of  treatment.  Under  all  circumstances  the  wearing  off  of 
treatment effect is not assessed in this study design (no placebo group for comparison within the first 6 
months  of  treatment).  Study  248.546  (Pivotal  study)  cannot  be used  to  assess  whether  the  effect  of 
pramipexole  in  RLS  wears  off  with  trial  duration  (no  placebo  group  for  comparison  in  the  first  6 
moths).  In  the  12-week  pivotal  Study  248.543  there  is  a  25%  reduction  in  efficacy  over  the  last  8 
weeks  of  treatment.  Comparisons  across  studies  248.543,  248.515  and  248.520  indicate  decreased 
efficacy  with  trial  duration.  The  data  indicate  that  efficacy  of  pramipexole  compared  to  placebo  is 
wearing off with trial duration. Thus, the MAH was requested to provide stopping rules for continued 
treatment  beyond  3  months  since  the  effect  compared  to  placebo  wears  off  with  treatment  duration, 
which should be mentioned in the SPC. 
Secondary endpoint 
Secondary endpoint - Patient Global Impression (PGI) after 12 weeks 
In the pramipexole total group, 61.4% of patients were PGI responders after 12 weeks compared with 
44.7%  in  the  placebo  group.  The  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  test  with  stratification  by  pooled  centre 
showed a significant difference in favour of pramipexole total (p=0.0056). The pramipexole 0.25 mg 
group  revealed  significance,  while  the  other  treatment  groups  were  not  significantly  different  than 
placebo. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
8 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  in  the  pramipexole  total  group,  61.4%  of  patients  were  PGI  responders 
after  12  weeks  compared  with  44.7%  in  the  placebo  group,  which  was  significant.  However,  when 
comparing  the  individual  dosages,  the  difference  was  not  significant.  The  effect  (i.e.  difference 
between treatment and placebo) did wear off with time. This parameter warrants further assessments 
of  efficacy  in  long-term  trials  i.e.  6  –  12  months  double  blind  trials  as  previously  suggested  by  the 
CHMP.  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
9 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint - Visual Analogue Scales (VASs) for the assessment of RLS severity / FAS 
The VASs used in this Study are a self-designed instrument that was not validated against any other 
assessment  scale.  Therefore,  inferences  from  this  scale  to  other  scales  for  the  assessment  of  RLS 
symptoms are very limited.  
The CHMP considered that a significant effect on the VAS was identified and as such the results of 
the VAS are supportive. However as indicated by the MAH, the VAS scales have not been validated 
against any other assessment scale and therefore it is difficult to draw definite conclusions from these 
findings. 
Secondary endpoint - Analysis of Epworth Sleepiness Scale 
At  baseline,  the  mean  score  (±SD)  was  8.1  (±4.4)  in  the  placebo  group  and  7.5  (±4.5)  for  the 
pramipexole total group. At week 12, both treatment groups showed a decrease in the mean ESS score 
to 6.6 (±3.9) in the placebo group and to 5.8 (±4.0) in the pramipexole total group. The mean reduction 
in the placebo group was 1.6 (±3.8) compared with 1.7 (±4.0) in the pramipexole total group, which 
was not significant. 
The CHMP considered that the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) did not reveal a difference between 
pramipexole and placebo. 
Secondary endpoint - Augmentation Severity Rating Scale 
Augmentation  is  defined  as  the  worsening  of  RLS  symptoms  attributable  to  a  specific  therapeutic 
intervention for RLS and exhibits a shift of RLS symptoms, which occur 2 or more hours earlier than 
the observed time of onset of symptoms during the initial course of stable treatment, or the state before 
treatment  initiation.  For  assessment  of  this  phenomenon,  the  definition  that  augmentation  should  be 
present for at least 1 week, for a minimum of 5 days per week, to meet diagnostic criteria was applied 
in  this  study  using  the  Augmentation  Severity  Rating  Scale  (ASRS)  for  measurement  at  end  of 
treatment  (Week  12).  The  augmentation  score  interpreted  the  changes  from  baseline  (without 
providing  a  baseline  score)  and  varies  from  0  (no  augmentation)  to  4  (maximal  augmentation).  The 
highest ASRS scores calculated per treatment group were found between 2.0 and 2.25, with a median 
of  0.25  (placebo)  and  0.5  (pramipexole  groups  and  total).  As  can  be  seen  below  there  was  no 
significant measurable augmentation observed in any pramipexole dose group relative to placebo. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
10 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  MAH  has  provided  the  results  of  a  new  scale  for  the  assessment  of 
augmentation, and the results of the comparison of placebo versus individual dosages. Following the 
MAH’s responses the CHMP considered that it is agreed that the rating scale is non-validated and the 
clinical significance therefore is difficult to interpret. Moreover, the study was not powered to show a 
difference 
that 
augmentation  may  be  more  often  found  in  patients  treated  with  pramipexole  (the  frequency  of 
ASRS>0.5 is 29% higher for pramipexole treated compared to placebo). The CHMP considered that 
the issue resolved, but the clinical significance of augmentation need further consideration. 
in  augmentation.  Although  not  statistically  significant, 
the  results 
indicate 
Secondary endpoint - Johns Hopkins RLS Quality of Life Scale  
The  CHMP  considered  that  there  was  a  significant  effect  of  pramipexole  as  measured  by  the  Johns 
Hopkins  RLS  Quality  of  Life  Scale.  There  was  a  minor  increase  in  the  QoL  for  placebo  treated 
patients  from  week  6  to  week  12,  but  otherwise  the  effect  as  measured  on  the  Johns  Hopkins  RLS 
Quality of Life Scale is reassuring with regard to maintained effect of pramipexole in RLS. However, 
the LOCF method could lead to overestimation of the effect of pramipexole and therefore an analysis 
of the PPS would be supportive. 
The  MAH  provided  analysis  for  the  PPS  population  is  shown  in  the  below  table  and  supports  the 
results of the FAS analysis. The adjusted difference to placebo in the PPS analysis is even larger when 
compared to the pramipexole combined dose groups. These data confirm that the LOCF method used 
for  the  primary  analysis  did  not  lead  to  an  overestimation  of  the  pramipexole  effect.  The  CHMP 
agreed that the analysis for the PPS population supports the results of the FAS analysis.  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
11 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Study 248.546 
Methods 
The  main  objective  of  this  study  was  the  evaluation of  long-term  efficacy  of  pramipexole  treatment 
compared to placebo in a randomised withdrawal design. During a 6-month open-label run-in phase, 
all  patients  received  pramipexole  (dose  range  0.125 mg-0.75  mg).  At  month  6,  responders  based  on 
RLSRS score and CGI-I were randomised to either continue on the same dose of pramipexole or to 
receive  placebo  under  double-blind  conditions.  This  study  was  performed  at  13  centres  in  Germany 
and involved 224 patients of which 150 patients were randomised into the double-blind period. 
The  primary  endpoint was time to a pre-defined target event (worsening of RLS as assessed by the 
CGI-I  and  the  RLSRS  score,  RLSRS  score  >  15  and  CGI-I  at  least  ’minimally  worse’)  during  the 
second  period  of  the  study.  In  addition,  in  this  study  augmentation  was  evaluated  using  the 
Augmentation  Severity  Rating  Scale.  The  secondary  endpoints  analysed  during  the  FAS  period  2 
were CGI-severity of illness, CGI therapeutic effect, CGI-side effects, PGI, Johns Hopkins Quality of 
Life score, VASs, ESS, and ASRS.  
In total, 224 patients were entered and treated with pramipexole in the open-label run-in phase (period 
1).  Of  these,  41  patients  (18.3%)  discontinued  prematurely  in  the  open  label  phase.  Overall,  150 
patients were randomised in period 2 and 33 patients did not enter period 2. The second period of a 
nominal duration of 3 months was completed by 96 patients (64.0%) overall. With regard to treatment 
group,  the  frequency  of  premature  discontinuations  was  much  higher  in  the  placebo  group  (65.3%) 
than  in  the  pramipexole  group  (9.0%),  as  expected  because  of  the  randomised  withdrawal  design  of 
period 2. 
The CHMP considered that drugs with psychotropic effects are usually tapered off over a substantial 
period (usually weeks to months) to avoid the introduction of rebound phenomena and a rationale for 
not using a taper off in this trial should be provided. The MAH responded that in the current SPC for 
pramipexole tapering off is recommended from high doses to avoid possible symptoms suggestive of 
neuroleptic  malignant  syndrome  which  have  been  reported  with  abrupt  withdrawal  of  dopaminergic 
therapy. However, tapering off is not recommended to avoid rebound phenomena. Parkinson’s disease 
patients take their total daily dose in 3 equally divided doses, which leads to a very constant plasma 
level of pramipexole with a low peak/trough ratio. In contrast in RLS patients the peak/trough ratio of 
the plasma level is much higher compared to Parkinson’s patients according to the once daily dosing. 
In study 248.546 the PK profile of pramipexole in RLS patients was investigated. The daily variation 
of  PPX  blood  levels  for  0.54  base  (0.75mg  of  salt)  is  twice  as  high  as  the  variation  from  trough  to 
wash-out, and therefore the MAH considers it not necessary to taper off pramipexole in the indication 
RLS. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
12 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
Following  the  MAH’s  responses  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  biological  effect  of  pramipexole  in 
RLS  may  well  be  present  long  after  the  blood  concentration  has  reached  low  levels.  The  results 
presented do not provide evidence against the need to taper off pramipexole and do not exclude the 
possibility of rebound and need for taper off pramipexole in RLS. Rebound may be a problem after 
abrupt discontinuation, and should be reflected in the SPC. It was agreed to add the following sentence 
to  section  4.2.2  of  the  SPC:  “Rebound  (worsening  of  symptoms  after  abrupt  discontinuation  of 
treatment) can not be excluded.” 
Primary outcome - Time to target event was analysed with the Kaplan-Meier method  
Below an overview of the occurrence of target events by treatment group and visit.  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
13 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
14 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  it  seems  quite  evident  that  patients  with  a  response  to  pramipexole 
treatment  who  were  randomised  to  continued  pramipexole  or  placebo  did  better  on  continued 
pramipexole  with  regard  to  the  primary  outcome  parameters  (time  to  event/change  in  RLSRS  and 
CGI-I). However, the nature of the trial design makes it difficult to interpret. The difference observed 
may be due to lack of efficacy among placebo treated patients but may also reflect rebound following 
treatment for 6 months with a psychoactive drug (no taper). In addition, since the placebo response is 
extensive this is not evidence of sustained efficacy of pramipexole beyond 6 months of treatment. The 
trial  therefore  provides  questionable  evidence  for  long-term  efficacy  of  pramipexole  in  RLS.  The 
MAH responded that the trial design of a randomised withdrawal study is used to investigate whether 
responders to active treatment stay responders when the treatment is switched to placebo or whether 
the  treatment  effect  vanishes  after  randomisation  to  placebo.  In  general  it  cannot  be  assumed  that 
placebo treated patients will immediately deteriorate in such a setting. This trial design served also to 
counterbalance  possible  placebo  responses  as  only  treatment  responders  were  randomised  to  the 
double-blind period. The results of Study 248.546 demonstrate the long-term efficacy of pramipexole 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
15 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
up  to  9  months.  Placebo  treated  patients  deteriorated  considerably  after  discontinuation  of 
pramipexole, whereas patients who stayed on pramipexole showed a continued benefit. To avoid any 
bias due to a ‘rebound’ phenomenon after abrupt discontinuation of pramipexole, the MAH excluded 
those  patients  from  the  analysis,  who  experienced  an  immediate  deterioration  after  one  day.  In  a 
further analysis excluding all patients who had reached the predefined target event within 1 week after 
randomisation a highly significant statistical difference in the primary endpoint (time to target event) 
was  still  shown  between  pramipexole  and  placebo.  This  supports  the  findings  from  the  primary 
analyses  that  early  deterioration  after  discontinuation  of  pramipexole  treatment  is  not  biasing  the 
treatment  effect  in  favour  of  pramipexole.  The  MAH  considers  the  results  of  this  study  are  strong 
evidence for long-term efficacy of pramipexole in RLS. Following the MAH’s responses the CHMP 
considered that the biological effect of pramipexole may extend longer than 1 week, despite the low 
plasma  levels.  And  it  is  not  excluded  that  rebound  may  be  present  more  than  1  week  after 
discontinuation  of  pramipexole  (almost  all  the  effect  is  seen  within  the  first  3  weeks  after 
randomisation).  
For  the  double-blind  phase  (period  2),  the  safety  period  2  population  comprised  all  patients  who 
received at least one dose of the study drug in period 2 (N=150). The FAS period 2 was formed by all 
patients  in  the  safety  period  2  population  who  provided  Visit-10  RLSRS  data  and  had  at  least  one 
post-randomisation assessment of RLSRS / CGI-I, and who took at least 2 doses of randomised study 
medication  on  2  consecutive  days  (N=147).  The  per-protocol  set  (PPS)  period  2  was  defined  as  all 
patients  from  the  FAS  period  2  without  important  protocol  deviations  (N=109).  Overall,  39  patients 
were  not  included  in  the  PPS  period  2  due  to  important  protocol  deviations  (38  patients  from  FAS 
period 2 plus patient 1262). The PPS period 2 thus represented 72.7% of the safety period 2 population 
There were a total of 39 protocol violations in the study (39/150 = 26%) after randomisation, most of 
which were found in the placebo group. The MAH responded that according to the clinical trial report 
of  Study  248.546,  the  number  of  patients  with  protocol  violations  (PV)  in  the  placebo  group  as  22 
(30.6%) and in the pramipexole group 17 (21.8%) was higher in the placebo group compared to the 
pramipexole group. 
The  category  ‘Non-responder’  covers  all  patients  randomised  without  having  fulfilled  the  responder 
criteria  at  the  end  of  the  6-month  open  label  period.  The  category  ‘No  full  compliance’  covers  all 
patients who did not take the trial drug continuously. The category ‘Prohibited medication use’ covers 
those patients who did not only take trial drug but also other RLS medications, which was not allowed 
due  to  the  study  protocol.  These  PVs  were  not  linked  to  adverse  events.  Furthermore,  the  results 
within the PPS population, where patients with important PVs were excluded, confirm the results of 
the primary efficacy analyses performed in the FAS population. Following the MAH’s responses the 
CHMP considered that as stated by the MAH the protocol violations does not reflect adverse events 
(RSL symptoms/augmentation).  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
16 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  secondary  endpoints  were  in  favour  of  pramipexole  treatment, 
however shortcomings of the trial make the observations of limited value. 
Secondary analysis - Assessment of efficacy in FAS Period 1 
At the end of period 1, overall substantial improvements were observed for the following endpoints: 
RLSRS  total  score  (mean  change  from  baseline  15.7),  RLSRS  responder  rate  (76.6%  full  or  partial 
responders), CGI-I (78.9% ‘much / very much improved’), CGI severity of illness (51.8% sufficiently 
improved), CGI-therapeutic effect (80.3% sufficiently improved), PGI (80.2% improved), RLS-VASs 
(median changes from baseline were 41.0 mm [RLS severity while getting to sleep], 52.0 mm [RLS 
severity in the course of the night],  10.0  mm  [RLS  severity in the course of the day], and  39.0 mm 
[satisfaction  with  sleep]),  and  Johns  Hopkins  Quality  of  Life  (median  change  from  baseline  +17.5). 
Few  patients  (6.0%)  reported  a  significant  interference  of  side  effects  with  their  function.  Daytime 
sleepiness  assessed  by  the  ESS  did  not  increase  but  showed  some  improvement  (mean  change  from 
baseline  1.6).  Substantial  improvements  were  evident  already  after  1  to  2  weeks  of  treatment 
demonstrating the rapid onset of pramipexole treatment effects.  
The CHMP concluded that the overall response rate (>50% reduction) in RLSRS was 63.1% in the 6 
months open-label phase of the trial (Period 1), which compares to a response rate of 61.8% in Study 
248.543.  However,  one  would  expect  a  higher  response  in  an  open  trial  with  flexible  titration 
(248.546)  compared  to  a  placebo-controlled  trial  with  fixed  dosages  (Study  248.543).  The  MAH 
responded  that  open  label  trials  cannot  be  compared  with  data  from  randomised  controlled  trials 
without  introducing  methodological  flaws.  However,  the  trial  population  in  Study  248.543  had  a 
baseline mean (SD) RLSRS total score of 23.5 (5.1) while in 248.546 the mean was 5 points higher 
with  28.5  (5.6),  representing  a  more  severely  affected  RLS  population,  as  well  as  the  number  of 
patients  already  experienced  in  RLS  treatment  was  higher  in  Study  248.546  (58.9%)  compared  to 
Study  248.543  (24.6%),  which  explains  why  the  response  rate  in  the  populations  meeting  these  two 
criteria is different. The data over time from Study 248.546 period 1 confirm that no wearing off was 
observed. 
The CGI-I scale was applied only at the end of the open label phase prior to randomisation and cannot 
provide  further  insight.  Following  the  MAH’s  responses  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the  conclusions 
reached by the MAH. However, since no placebo group was included in this trial, it is difficult to draw 
definite conclusions with regard to maintained efficacy. 
Study 248.515 
Methods 
The main objective of the single centre study was to evaluate the short-term efficacy and safety (over 
3 weeks) of different doses of pramipexole design (0.125 mg, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg,0.75 mg) compared to 
placebo on periodic limb movements (PLM) and sleep parameters in patients with idiopathic restless 
legs syndrome (RLS).  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
17 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
The  study  performed  in  Finland  involving  109  treated  patients  comprised  of  2  periods  was  a 
randomised,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind,  fixed-dose  period  of  3  weeks  followed  by  1  week  of 
wash-out and an open-label flexible-dose period of 26 weeks. In period 1, patients were randomised to 
receive once daily either placebo or 0.125 mg, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, or 0.75 mg pramipexole for 3 weeks. 
All patients in the pramipexole groups started on 0.125 mg/day. For the higher dose groups, the dose 
was increased stepwise; the final dose was reached on Day 5 (0.25 mg), Day 9 (0.5 mg), and Day 13 
(0.75 mg).  
The primary endpoint was the change from baseline to Week 3 in the periodic limb movements during 
time  in  bed  index  (PLMI)  representing  the  hourly  rate  of  periodic  limb  movements.  Secondary 
endpoints  were  the  change  in  RLSRS  total  score  and  the  clinical  global  impression  scale  for 
improvement (CGI-I), sleep parameters, and quality of life (SF-36). 
Results 
Primary endpoint - Periodic limb movements during time in bed index (PLMI) 
The CHMP concluded that there was a significant reduction in periodic limb movements during sleep.  
Secondary  endpoint  -  RLSRS  total  score  and  percentage  of  patients  with  very  much  improved  or 
much improved CGI-I 
The  CHMP  considered  that  although  reduction  in  RLSRS  was  a  secondary  outcome  measure,  a 
significant reduction in RLSRS was found in this very short study. Similar positive results were found 
for CGI-I. The MAH chose to compare the efficacy in terms of RSLRS change across studies. 
The CHMP considered that although not a primary outcome, in Study 248.515 there was a significant 
reduction  in  RLSRS  after  3  weeks  of  double  blind  fixed  dose  treatment.  The  pooling  of  data  from 
studies with different duration is questionable because of differences in design (flexible versus fixed 
dose) and since the efficacy of RLSRS wears off with duration of treatment within the pivotal Study 
248.543.  However,  comparing  efficacy  across  studies  shows  a  consistent  reduction  in  efficacy  with 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
18 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
increased trial duration. The results warrant further assessment in long term, placebo controlled trials 
(6-12 months).  
Following the MAH’s responses the CHMP considered that comparisons of results between trials with 
different populations and design should always be cautioned – and consequently the reasons provided 
by  the  MAH  (single  centre  versus  multi  centre  and  selected  population  (a  PLMS  index>  5/h  at 
baseline) may well be involved. However they do not exclude or contradict that the differences may be 
related  to  trial  duration.  The  explanations  provided  by  the  MAH  do  not  exclude  that  the  observed 
differences between the studies are related to trial duration  
Trial no.  
248.515 
248.520 
248.543 
Duration 
3 weeks 
6 weeks 
12 weeks 
The efficacy of pramipexole was shown across studies for CGI. 
Difference 
(pramipexole versus placebo) 
in 
RLSRS 
9.2 
6.6 
4.3 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Study  248.515  was  not  designed  to  show  a  difference  in  CGI-I. 
However,  more  patients  improved  with  pramipexole  on  the  CGI-I  compared  to  placebo.  As  for  the 
majority  of  other  outcome  parameters,  a  significant  placebo  response  was  observed.  The  pooling  of 
data between studies with different design and duration is questionable, however, comparison across 
studies for CGI-I leaves the impression of a “wearing off effect” of pramipexole.  
Secondary endpoint - Quality of life (SF 36) 
The  results  of  SF-36  standard  physical  component  scale  and  standard  mental  component  scale  are 
shown below. The CHMP considered that no effect on quality of life as measured with SF36 standard 
physical component scale and standard mental component scale could be observed. Effects on quality 
of life may not be pronounced after short-term treatment. 
Secondary endpoint - RLSRS total score during the open-label treatment (FAS period 2 population) 
At  baseline,  all  dose  groups  had  similar  mean  RLSRS  scores;  the  overall  mean  score  was  23.0±4.3, 
indicating a population with moderate to severe RLS symptoms. At the end of week 30, reductions of 
the mean RLSRS scores were observed in all dose groups. Overall the mean reduction of the RLSRS 
score was 16.9±7.8. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
19 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Study 248.520 
Methods 
This  study  provided  short-term  (6  weeks)  and  long-term  (46  weeks)  data  on  efficacy  and  safety  of 
pramipexole in a multi-centre flexible-dose design (dose range 0.125 mg-0.75 mg). The first 6 weeks 
were a randomised parallel-group double-blind study of pramipexole (flexible-dose) vs. placebo. The 
focus  was  on  clinical  parameters  of  RLS:  The  co-primary  endpoints  were  the  change  in  the  RLSRS 
score  from  baseline  and  CGI-Global  Improvement  after  6  weeks  of  treatment.  Patients  who  were 
responders after 6 weeks of treatment continued with double-blind medication for a further 46 weeks 
while patients who were non-responders received open-label pramipexole. Overall, 345 patients were 
treated in 37 centres in 5 European countries for 6 weeks. 
The  primary  endpoints  for  efficacy  were  the  change  in  RLSRS  total  score  from  baseline  to  week  6 
and the proportion of CGI-I responders (much improved, very much improved) at week 6. Secondary 
endpoints were ESS, PGI, quality of life (SF-36) and VAS for RLS severity. 
Results 
The CHMP considered that a significant response for both primary outcome variables was observed in 
this short-term (6 weeks) FAS period of the trial, which was supported by several secondary outcome 
measures in period 1.  
4.3 
Clinical safety 
A total of 889 patients with RLS received at least one dose of pramipexole and 295 patients at least 
one placebo dose in the course of the four studies. The planned pramipexole doses used in the RLS 
programme were 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, and 0.75 mg/day. 
The  main  analysis  of  adverse  events  (AEs)  was  based  on  data  from  study  grouping  2  (double-blind 
periods), where 575 patients were treated with pramipexole and 223 patients with placebo. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  discontinuation  in  the  study  248.543  due  to  adverse  events  was 
substantially  higher  for  pramipexole  than  for  placebo  (11.6%  in  pramipexole  and  5.8  %  in  placebo 
group).  
Overall, the frequency of AEs in the double-blind periods of studies 248.515, 248.520, and 248.543 
(study grouping 2) was higher in the pramipexole than in the placebo group, i.e., 419 (72.9%) patients 
in the pramipexole group and 141 (63.2%) in the placebo group experienced at least one AE. In both 
treatment groups, AEs most commonly belonged to the system organ class “nervous system disorders” 
(30.4%  pramipexole  and  26.0%  placebo)  or  “gastointestinal  disorders”  (29.7%  pramipexole  and 
13.9% placebo). 
Nausea and somnolence were important adverse events – especially in the elderly population. These 
adverse  events  were  found  more  frequently  among  patients  treated  with  pramipexole.  The  risk  of 
adverse  events  should  be  put  in  context  of  the  modest  efficacy  of  pramipexole.  Nausea  and  fatigue 
decreased  with  duration  of  the  trial,  which  is  expected  since  the  adverse  events  are  probably  dose 
related and therefore may lead to dose reduction (flexible dose) or discontinuation (fixed dose). The 
assumption made by the MAH that insomnia is an effect of disease rather than of the Study drug is 
probably  correct,  but  it  is  disappointing  that  pramipexole  did  not  have  a  positive  effect  on  this 
parameter.  The  prevalence  of  insomnia  remained  almost  constant  throughout  the  study  treatment.  A 
similar trend was observed for insomnia in patients in the placebo group, suggesting this was an effect 
of the disease rather than of the study drug. 
In  the  pramipexole  group  in  study  grouping  2,  female  patients  had  a  higher  incidence  of  AEs  than 
male  patients  (77.8%  of  370  females  vs.  63.9%  of  205  males).  AEs  of  the  system  organ  class 
“gastrointestinal  disorders”  were  more  frequent  in  female  (34.6%)  than  male  patients  (21.0%), 
whereas  the  frequencies  of  AEs  in  the  system  organ  class  “nervous  system  disorders”  were  similar 
(31.9% females and 27.8% males). In the pramipexole group, AEs that were more frequently reported 
in female patients were nausea (20.8% females vs. 6.3% males) and fatigue (10.5% females vs. 5.4% 
males). Both AEs were also reported more frequently in the placebo group for females compared to 
males (nausea in placebo group: 6.7% females vs. 2.7% males; fatigue in placebo group: 7.3% females 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
20 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
vs. 6.8% males). The CHMP considered that frequencies of adverse events (fatigue and nausea) should 
be described in the SPC in relation to gender. The following text will be included in section 4.8 of the 
SPC:  “Nausea  and  fatigue  were  more  often  reported  in  female  patients  treated  with  MIRAPEXIN 
(20.8% and 10.5% respectively) compared to males (6.7 % and 7.3% respectively).” 
The  dose  relationship  of  AEs  was  evaluated  for  the  fixed-dose,  double-blind  periods  of  studies 
248.515 (3-week treatment period) and 248.543 (12-week treatment period), analysed by randomised 
treatment  group.  The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  in  the  different  dose  groups  was  similar,  i.e.,  17/21 
(81.0%) patients experienced an AE with 0.125 mg compared to 85/110 (77.3%) with 0.25 mg, 81/102 
(79.4%)  with  0.5  mg,  and  86/112  (76.8%)  with  0.75  mg  pramipexole.  A  dose  relationship  for  AEs 
belonging  to  the  system  organ  class  “gastrointestinal  disorders”  and  psychiatric  disorders  was 
observed. The CHMP concluded that the frequency of most adverse events was related to drug dose. 
This confirms that the adverse events are related to pramipexole and not an effect of disease. 
Twenty-nine  of  889  patients  (3.3%)  treated  with  pramipexole  in  the  four  clinical  studies  reported  at 
least  one  SAE.  All  SAEs  were  considered  unrelated  to  the  Study  drug  by  the  investigator. With  the 
exception of the two fatal cases, and of two patients whose SAEs had not resolved at the close of the 
trial,  all  patients  recovered  from  their  episodes.  Four  of  295  patients  (1.4%)  treated  with  placebo 
reported  at  least  one  SAE  in  the  four  clinical  studies.  The  CHMP  considered  that  serious  adverse 
events were  more frequent among pramipexole treated patients (3.3%) compared to placebo (1.4%), 
but  all  were  considered  to  be  unrelated  to  drug.  Further  assessment  in  long-term  placebo  controlled 
trials would give a possibility to assess this issue in detail.  
Clinical Laboratory Evaluations 
The  following  parameters  were  evaluated:  Haematology:  Haematocrit,  haemoglobin,  red  blood  cell 
(RBC)  count,  mean  corpuscular  volume  (MCV),  mean  corpuscular  haemoglobin  (MCH),  mean 
corpuscular  haemoglobin  concentration  (MCHC),  white  blood  cell  (WBC)  count,  platelets, 
neutrophils,  poly  segment  neutrophils,  eosinophils,  basophils,  lymphocytes,  and  monocytes. 
Coagulation: Prothrombin time (PT), Prothrombin time-international normalised ratio´(PT-INR), and 
activated  partial  thromboplastin  time  (APTT).  Enzymes:  Aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST),  alanine 
aminotransferase  (ALT),  alkaline  phosphatase,  gamma  glutamyltransferase  (GGT),  cholinesterase, 
lactate  dehydrogenase  (LDH),  amylase,  lipase.  Substrates:  Glucose,  total  cholesterol,  blood  urea 
nitrogen, creatinine, creatinine clearance, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, triglycerides, uric acid, total 
protein, and albumin. Electrolytes: Sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, and phosphate. Urinalysis: 
Protein, nitrite, glucose, ketone, RBC, WBC, blood, and pH, and further microscopic evaluations if the 
dip-stick  test  revealed  any  findings.  Other:  Ferritin,  iron,  thyroid  stimulating  hormone  (TSH), 
triiodothyronine  (T3),  and  thyroxine  (T4).  Across  all  studies  (Study  grouping  1),  there  was  no  –  or 
only  marginal  –  change  in  median  values  from  baseline  to  last  assessment  for  any  laboratory 
parameter  in  the  pramipexole  and  placebo  groups.  The  CHMP  considered  that  clinical  laboratory 
evaluation does not give rise to concern with regard to safety. 
Vital signs 
Overall, there were no clinically relevant changes in systolic blood pressure in both treatment groups. 
The CHMP considered that the effect on orthostatic reaction and pulse rate has not been sufficiently 
evaluated in this population. In general, there were no clinically relevant changes in the pulse rate in 
both treatment groups and based on frequency of adverse event reporting and the relatively low dose 
of pramipexole used in the RLS population, orthostatic reactions does not seem to constitute a major 
problem.  
In  general,  there  were  no  differences  between  the  pramipexole  and  placebo  groups  with  respect  to 
physical examination findings. The CHMP considered that physical examination is a rough measure 
of adverse events – probably not sufficiently sensitive to pick up minor changes in the patients overall 
physical condition. 
Dermatological examinations 
Of  a  total  of  316  patients  treated  with  pramipexole  in  these  studies  undergoing  dermatological 
examination, no case of melanoma was identified. The CHMP considered that as the studies were all 
short term trials, they probably were being too short to pick up any sign relating to the development of 
skin melanoma, however it is reassuring that no cases of melanoma occurred.  
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
21 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
The  MAH  will  continue  to  monitor  the  occurrence  of  melanoma  as  part  of  their  post  marketing 
surveillance and discuss respective findings in the forthcoming PSURs.  
Safety in special populations: Children 
All  studies  were  performed  in  adults,  and  therefore  no  safety  data  are  available  on  the  use  of 
pramipexole in paediatric patients with RLS. 
Safety in special populations: Hepatically impaired patients
The  influence  of  hepatic  insufficiency  on  pramipexole  pharmacokinetics  has  not  been  evaluated. 
However,  because  approximately  90%  of  the  recovered  dose  is  excreted  in  the  urine  as  unchanged 
drug, hepatic impairment is not expected to have a significant effect on pramipexole elimination. 
Safety in special populations: Renally impaired patients
The safety of pramipexole in renally impaired patients was assessed as part of the Parkinson’s disease 
development programme, during which it was determined that pramipexole clearance correlates well 
with creatinine clearance in patients with varying degrees of renal impairment. Therefore, creatinine 
clearance can be used as a predictor of the extent of decrease in pramipexole clearance (P98-7305). No 
patients  with  renal  impairment  (defined  as  having  significant  renal  disease  or  creatinine  clearance 
lower than 50 mL/minute) were included in the RLS clinical studies. 
Safety in special populations: Elderly patients
In the RLS clinical studies, AEs were analysed by subgroups according to the age groups <65 years 
and  >65 years  in  study grouping  2  and  4,  to  assess  whether  or  not  age  influences  the  AE  profile  of 
pramipexole  in  RLS  patients.  One  AE  of  specific  interest  in  the  elderly,  based  on  data  from  the 
Parkinson's disease programme, was hallucination. The two patients who reported hallucination (one 
pramipexole, one placebo) in the RLS clinical programme were both <65 years of age. 
Safety in special populations: Race
Approximately  99%  of  the  patients  included  in  the  four  clinical  studies  of  the  RLS  development 
programme were Caucasian. The number of patients from different race groups was too small to draw 
any conclusions about the influence of race on the safety profile of pramipexole. 
Safety in special populations: Pregnancy
One  pregnancy  occurred  in  the  clinical  trial  with  RLS  (0,75  mg).  The  drug  was  stopped  after  the 
woman tested positive. After a normal pregnancy the child was born healthy. 
Drug interactions
No new information with regard to drug interactions has been presented. 
Overdose
In the RLS clinical studies, no event of overdose was reported. 
Drug abuse
Pramipexole  has  not  been  systematically  studied  in  animals  or  humans  for  its  potential  for  abuse, 
tolerance,  or  physical  dependence.  The  potential  for  drug  abuse  in  the  RLS  population  may  be 
different  from  the  Parkinson  population,  which  is  known  to  have  a  low  abuse  potential.  Moreover, 
pramipexole  is  administered  in  a  much  lower  daily  dose  in  the  RLS  indication  compared  to 
Parkinson’s  disease.  However,  the  MAH  will  monitor  the  abuse  potential  as  part  of  their  post 
marketing surveillance and will discuss respective findings in the forthcoming PSURs.  
Withdrawal and rebound 
In  Study  248.520,  there  were  considerable  more  patients  who  experienced  RLS  symptoms  worse 
compared to baseline among patients treated with pramipexole (43.6%) compared to placebo (8.7%). 
This clearly show that rebound may be a phenomena associated with stopping pramipexole therapy. 
This  has  important  implication  for  the  interpretation  of  Study  248.546,  since  it  is  suspected  that  the 
effect  shown  in  this  study  was  related  to  withdrawal  and  rebound.  The  CHMP  considered  that 
withdrawal and rebound should be described in the SPC. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
22 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
The  MAH  considered  that  the  risk  of  rebound  is  minimal  in  this  dose  range.  In  addition,  in  most 
chronic diseases withdrawal of an efficacious treatment is followed by a worsening of symptoms (i.e. 
pain in rheumatoid arthritis, blood pressure etc.) and as this is no specific feature of pramipexole in the 
indication RLS, the MAH does not consider it necessary to specifically mention this in the SPC. The 
CHMP however still considered that rebound may be a problem after abrupt discontinuation. Thus, the 
following text will be added to section 4.2 of the SPC: “Rebound (worsening of symptoms after abrupt 
discontinuation of treatment) can not be excluded”. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Already included in section 4.8 of the 
SPC 
Already included in sections 4.4 and 4.8 
of the SPC 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan. 
Table: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Identified risks 
Hypotension, 
orthostatic reaction 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Sudden onset of sleep  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Abnormal behaviours 
Planned study to address these 
issue 
Abnormal dreams 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Delusions 
Paranoia 
Weight increase/eating 
disorder 
Hyperkinesia 
Potential risks 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Skin melanoma 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Retinal degeneration 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
To be evaluated in ongoing Study 
248.538 - Ophthalmological 
safety study of pramipexole vs. 
ropinerole in early4 Parkinson’s 
disease patients (finalisation 
Q4/2009) 
Pulmonary fibrosis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Substance abuse 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Embryotoxicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Leidig cell hyperplasia 
and adenomas 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Hyperreflexia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Dystonia 
Photopsia 
Diplopia 
Routine pharmcovigilance 
Routine pharmcovigilance 
Routine pharmcovigilance 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
23 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information 
Augmentation and 
rebound 
Planned double blind study of 6-
12 months duration including 
assessment of augmentation and 
rebound. 
Augmentation, post treatment 
worsening and rebound in 
patients with RLS should be 
monitored and discussed in the 
forthcoming PSURs. 
Already included in section 4.4 of the 
SPC 
Overdose 
Routine pharmcovigilance 
Already included in section 4.9 of the 
SPC 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
PSUR cycle 
In view of the extension of indication to RLS, the PSURs will be submitted every six months during 
two years, once a year for the following two years and thereafter at three-yearly intervals. 
6. 
Changes to product information 
Section 4.1 of the SPC  
“4.1.2  MIRAPEXIN  tablets  are  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
idiopathic  Restless  Legs  Syndrome  in  dosages  up  to  0.54  mg  of  base  (0.75  mg  of  salt)  (See 
section 4.2.2).” 
Section 4.2 of the SPC  
“4.2.2 Restless Legs Syndrome 
The  tablets  should  be  taken  orally,  swallowed  with  water,  and  can  be  taken  either  with  or 
without food. 
The recommended starting dose of MIRAPEXIN is 0.088 mg of base (0.125 mg of salt) taken 
once daily 2-3 hours before bedtime. For patients requiring additional symptomatic relief, the 
dose may be increased every 4-7 days to a maximum of 0.54 mg of base (0.75 mg of salt) per 
day (as shown in the table below). 
Dose Schedule of MIRAPEXIN 
Titration Step  Once 
Daily 
Evening Dose (mg 
of base) 
Daily 
Once 
Evening Dose (mg 
of salt) 
         1 
2* 
3* 
4* 
* if needed 
0.088 
0.18 
0.35 
0.125 
0.25 
0.50 
           0.54 
           0.75 
As long-term efficacy of MIRAPEXIN in the treatment of RLS has not been sufficiently tested, 
patient’s  response  should be  evaluated  after  3  months  treatment  and  treatment  continuation 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
24 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
should  be  reconsidered.  If  treatment  is  interrupted  for  more  than  a  few  days  it  should  be 
re-initiated by dose titration carried out as above. 
Treatment discontinuation
Since daily dose for the treatment of Restless Legs Syndrome will not exceed 0.54 mg of base 
(0.75 mg of salt) MIRAPEXIN can be discontinued without tapering off. Rebound (worsening 
of symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of treatment) can-not be  excluded.” 
Dosing in patients with renal impairment 
The  elimination  of  pramipexole  is  dependent  on  renal  function.  Patients  with  a  creatinine 
clearance above 20 mL/min require no reduction in daily dose. The use of MIRAPEXIN has 
not been studied in hemodialysis patients, or in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Dosing in patients with hepatic impairment 
Dose adjustments in patients with hepatic failure is not required, as approx. 90% of adsorbed 
drug is excreted through the kidneys.” 
Section 4.4 of the SPC
“Reports  in  the  literature  indicate  that  treatment  of  Restless  Legs  Syndrome  with 
dopaminergic  medications  can  result  in  augmentation.  Augmentation  refers  to  the  earlier 
onset of symptoms in the evening (or even the afternoon), increase in symptoms, and spread of 
symptoms to  involve other extremities.  The controlled trials of MIRAPEXIN in patients with 
Restless  Legs  Syndrome  were  generally  not  of  sufficient  duration  to  adequately  capture 
augmentation  phenomena.  The  frequency  of  augmentation  after  longer  use  of  MIRAPEXIN 
and  the  appropriate  management  of  these  events  have  not  been  evaluated  in  controlled 
clinical trials.” 
Section 4.6 of the SPC
In  the  absence  of  human  data,  MIRAPEXIN  should  not  be  used  during  breast-feeding,  if 
possible.  
Section 4.8 of the SPC 
“The  following  side  effects  are  expected  under  the  use  of  MIRAPEXIN:  confusional  state, 
constipation, dizziness, dyskinesias, fatigue, hallucinations, headache, hypotension, insomnia, 
libido disorders, nausea, peripheral oedema, pathological gambling, somnolence, and sudden 
onset of sleep.  
Based on the analysis of pooled placebo-controlled trials, comprising a total of 1923 patients 
on  MIRAPEXIN  and  1354  patients  on  placebo,  adverse  drug  reactions  were  frequently 
reported for both groups. 63 % of patients on MIRAPEXIN and 52% of patients on placebo 
reported at least one adverse drug reaction.  
Tables  1  and  2  display  the  frequency  of  adverse  reactions  from  placebo-controlled  clinical 
trials in Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs Syndrome. The adverse reactions reported in 
these  tables  are  those  events  that  occurred  in  1%  or  more  of  patients  treated  with 
MIRAPEXIN and were reported significantly more often in patients taking MIRAPEXIN than 
placebo,  or  where  the  event  was  considered  clinically  relevant.  However,  the  majority  of 
common  adverse  reactions  were  mild  to  moderate,  they  usually  start  early  in  therapy,  and 
most tended to disappear even as therapy was continued.  
Table 1: 
Very common Adverse Reactions (≥ 10%) 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Nausea 
Psychiatric disorder 
Dyskinesia 
Pramipexole 
N= 1923 
(%) 
17.2 
12.9 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
25 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
Table 2: 
Common Adverse Reactions (≥ 1% - < 10%) 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Constipation 
Fatigue 
Peripheral oedema 
Headache 
Somnolence 
Psychiatric disorders 
Confusional state 
Hallucination  
Hallucination visual 
Insomnia 
Pramipexole 
N= 1923 
(%) 
5.5 
6.1 
1.2 
6.5 
8.6 
3.0 
2.0 
4.6 
8.0 
MIRAPEXIN is associated with somnolence (8.6%) and has been associated uncommonly with 
excessive daytime somnolence and sudden sleep onset episodes (0.1%). See also 4.4. 
MIRAPEXIN may be associated with libido disorders (increased (0.1%) or decreased (0.4%)). 
As  described  in  literature  for  dopamine  agonists  used  for  treatment  of  Parkinson’s  disease, 
patients  treated  with  MIRAPEXIN,  especially  at  high  doses,  have  been  reported  as  showing 
pathological gambling, generally reversible upon treatment discontinuation. 
The  most  commonly  (≥  5%)  reported  adverse  reaction  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s  disease 
treated  with  Mirapexin  were  dizziness,  dyskinesia,  somnolence,  insomnia,  hallucination, 
confusional state and constipation. The incidence of somnolence is increased at doses higher 
than  1.5  mg/day  (see  section  4.2.1).  More  frequent  adverse  reactions  in  combination  with 
levodopa were dyskinesias. Hypotension may occur at the beginning of treatment, especially if 
MIRAPEXIN is titrated too fast. 
The  most  commonly  (≥  5%)  reported  adverse  reaction  in  patients  with  Restless  Legs 
Syndrome  treated  with  Mirapexin  were  nausea,  headache  and  fatigue.  Nausea  and  fatigue 
were  more  often  reported  in  female  patients  treated  with  MIRAPEXIN  (20.8%  and  10.5%, 
respectively) compared to males (6.7 % and 7.3%, respectively). 
Section 4.9 of the SPC 
There is no clinical experience with massive overdosage. The expected adverse events would 
be  those  related  to  the  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  a  dopamine  agonist,  including  nausea, 
vomiting,  hyperkinesia,  hallucinations,  agitation  and  hypotension.  There  is  no  established 
antidote for overdosage of a dopamine agonist. If signs of central nervous system stimulation 
are present, a neuroleptic agent may be indicated. Management of the overdose may require 
general supportive measures, along with gastric lavage, intravenous fluids, electrocardiogram 
monitoring and administration of activated charcoal.
Section 5.1 of the SPC 
“The  mechanism  of  action  of  pramipexole  as  treatment  for  Restless  Legs  Syndrome  is 
unknown.  Neuropharmacological  evidence 
system 
involvement. 
suggests  primary  dopaminergic 
“Current evidence favours a disinhibition of normal CNS pacemakers, probably governed by 
multiple  influences  that  may  relate  to  PLM  and  disruptions  in  sleep  and  periodic  leg 
movements.” 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
26 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical trials in Restless Legs Syndrome 
The  efficacy  of  MIRAPEXIN  was  evaluated  in  four  placebo-controlled  clinical  trials  in 
approximately 1000 patients with moderate to very severe idiopathic Restless Legs Syndrome. 
Efficacy  was  demonstrated  in  controlled  trials  in  patients  treated  for  up  to  12  weeks. 
Maintenance of effect has not been sufficiently tested..
The mean change from baseline in the Restless Legs Syndrome Rating Scale (IRLS) and the 
Clinical  Global  Impression-Improvement  (CGI-I)  were  the  primary  efficacy  outcome 
measures. For both primary endpoints statistically significant differences have been observed 
for the pramipexole dose groups 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg and 0.75 mg in comparison to placebo. After 
12 weeks of treatment the baseline IRLS score improved from 23.5 to 14.1 points for placebo 
and from 23.4 to 9.4 points for pramipexole (doses combined). The adjusted mean difference 
was  -4.3  points  (CI  95%  -6.4;  -2.1  points,  p-value  <0.0001).  CGI-I  responder  rates 
(improved,  very  much  improved)  were  51.2%  and  72.0  %  for  placebo  and  pramipexole 
respectively (difference 20% CI 95%:  8.1%; 31.8%, p<0.0005). Efficacy was observed with 
0.088 mg of base (0.125 mg of salt) per day after the first week of treatment. 
In  a  placebo-controlled  polysomnography  study  over  3  weeks  MIRAPEXIN  significantly 
reduced the number of periodic limb movements during time in bed. 
Compared to placebo, the patients treated with MIRAPEXIN reached statistically significant 
superiority  in  terms  of  sleep  satisfaction,  improvement  in  their  condition  while  getting  to 
sleep, during the night and day as measured by Visual Analogue Scales.” 
Section 1 of the PL 
MIRAPEXIN 1.1 mg tablets are taken by patients to treat moderate to severe idiopathic 
Restless Legs Syndrome. 
Section 2 of the PL 
If you are treated for  Restless Legs Syndrome and if you are taking or have recently taken any 
other medicines, even those not prescribed, in particular those which affect kidney function or 
are excreted by the kidneys, e.g. cimetidine, or drugs that may cause drowsiness 
(somnolence), or alcohol please inform your doctor or pharmacist.pharmacist. 
Section 3 of the PL 
“Mirapexin tablets 0.088 mg tablets are only for adults and should not be taken by children 
and adolescents up to 18 years. 
Always take Mirapexin tablets exactly as your doctor has instructed you. You should check 
with your doctor or pharmacist if you are unsure. 
Swallow the tablets with a glass of water. 
At the beginning of treatment you will start by taking one Mirapexin 0.088 mg tablet once 
daily 2-3 hours before bedtime. If this dose is not sufficient to relieve symptoms, your doctor 
may recommend to increase the dose gradually every 4-7 days to 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg or 0.54 mg 
per day. 
Response to treatment should be evaluated after 3 month treatment and the need for treatment 
continuation should be reconsidered. If treatment is interrupted for more than a few days it 
should be re-initiated gradually as advised above. 
If you have impaired kidney function, please inform your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you have to stop taking this medicine, please inform your doctor or pharmacist. 
Effects when treatment with Mirapexin 0.088 mg tablets is stopped: 
If the treatment with SIFROL is abruptly stopped, symptoms like fever, rigidity, increased 
heart rate and/or disturbance of consciousness can occur (see “Parkinson’s disease”). 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
27 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
In patients treated with doses up to 0.54 mg of pramipexole base or 0.75 mg of pramipexole salt for 
RLS SIFROL can be stopped without tapering off. However, worsening of symptoms after abrupt 
discontinuation of treatment may occur in isolated cases.
Readability test 
According to Art. 59(3) and 61(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, the MAH should provide the 
results  of  assessments  carried  out  in  cooperation  with  target  patient  groups  on  the  PL  (‘user 
consultation’)  or  give  a  justification  for  not  performing  such  consultation.  The  MAH  provided  a 
justification  for  not  providing  a  readability  test  based  on  the  fact  that  the  product  has  been  on  the 
market in the EU for 7.5 years and that during this time, no problems have been reported with the use 
of  Mirapexin  or  understanding  of  the  PL.  The  MAH  therefore  did  not  see  an  immediate  need  for  a 
readability  test  in  RLS  patients.  The  CHMP  did  not  consider  the  MAH’s  justification  for  not 
performing  a  readability  test  acceptable,  especially since  the  PL  will  now  comprise  of  two  different 
indications/populations. The MAH has committed to submit a readability test of the English PL post-
authorisation. 
7. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Efficacy 
Short-term  (3  months)  efficacy  in  the  co-primary  endpoints  RLSRS  total  score  and  CGI-I  response 
was  shown  in  4  randomised  double-blind  placebo  controlled  trials  including  approximately  1000 
patients administered pramipexole up to 12 weeks for the treatment of moderate to severe RLS. The 
periodic limb movements during sleep and RLS severity at bedtime during night and day were reduced 
and the sleep measured by VAS improved during treatment. 
As  the  efficacy  varied  with  disease  severity,  being  most  pronounced  in  the  severely  affected,  the 
benefit in the mildly affected population was questionable. The CHMP considered that the proposed 
indication be amended in the following way to apply to the restricted moderate to severe population: 
“MIRAPEXIN  tablets  are  indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  idiopathic 
Restless Legs Syndrome in dosages up to 0.54 mg of base (0.75 mg of salt)”. 
Efficacy  was  shown  to  wear  off  with  treatment  duration.  Moreover,  efficacy  was  not  seen  with 
increased dose, whereas adverse events and drop-outs increased. Thus, the following text is added to 
section 4.2 of the SPC: “As long-term efficacy of Mirapexin in the treatment of RLS has not yet been 
sufficiently  tested,  patients’  response  should  evaluated  after  3  months  treatment  and  the  need  for 
treatment continuation should be reconsidered”. 
Efficacy has not been shown in long-term trials. The open-label extensions of the placebo-controlled 
trials cannot be used to show long-term efficacy, but be regarded as supportive of the findings. The 
MAH has committed to perform a study of 6 months duration post-authorisation. 
Safety 
No new clinically meaningful safety issues could be identified in the RLS population in comparison to 
the adverse event profile of pramipexole in Parkinson’s disease.  
Nausea,  fatigue  and  headache  were  reported  most  frequently  and  in  higher  frequencies  with 
pramipexole  compared  to  placebo.  Nausea  and  fatigue  were  also  more  often  reported  in  female 
patients (20.8% and 10.5% respectively) compared to males (6.7% and 7.3% respectively). 
Augmentation /rebound following abrupt discontinuation of treatment cannot be excluded. However, 
no firm conclusions on the occurrence can be drawn given the methodological limitations of the used 
scale of the study duration. A general precautionary statement in the section 4.2 of the SPC clarifying 
that  as  with  other  dopamine  agonists  augmentation  may  occur  with  pramipexole  is  considered 
appropriate: “Rebound (worsening of symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of treatment) cannot be 
excluded”. 
As  part  of  the  pharmacological  action  of  dopamine  agonists,  the  occurrence  of  hallucinations  and 
orthostatic hypotension cannot be excluded for RLS. This also applied to sudden onset of sleep, where 
a respective warning has been included in the SPC. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
28 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
Benefit/risk 
The CHMP considered that the benefit risk profile for the use of pramipexole in moderate to severe 
RLS is considered positive, as therapeutic benefit was shown in the controlled trials with acceptable 
adverse events. 
The CHMP considered that this variation to extend the indication to include “MIRAPEXIN tablets are 
indicated  for  symptomatic  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  idiopathic  Restless  Legs  Syndrome  in 
dosages up to 0.54 mg of base (0.75 mg of salt)”, with consequential changes to the sections 4.2, 4.4, 
4.8 and 5.1 of the SPC was acceptable. 
Mirapexin/H/C/134/II/36 
29 of 29 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
