SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Mirapexin. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  April  2001.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
All doses quoted refer to pramipexole base. 
1. 
Introduction 
Parkinson's  disease  (PD)  is  a  neurodegenerative  disorder  characterised  by  bradykinesia,  rigidity, 
postural imbalance and tremor. The incidence of PD increases with age and on average, 2 to 3 % of 
the population in the western world will develop PD. The cause of the disease is still unknown. PD 
develops  due  to  loss  of  neuronal  functions  within  the  basal  ganglia  and  the  substantia  nigra  of  the 
brain. More specifically, there is a marked deficiency in the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system due 
to degeneration  of  nigral  DA  neurons.  Thus,  restoration  of the  dopaminergic  transmission  forms  the 
central strategy for the treatment of PD.  
Levodopa  (L-dopa)  in  combination  with  a  peripheral  dopa  decarboxylase  inhibitor  (DDI)  is  the 
standard treatment of PD. Other treatments include DA agonists and anticholinergic drugs. The ergot 
derivatives  bromocriptine  and  pergolide  are  non-selective  partial  agonists  at  the  DA  D2  receptor 
subfamily (D2, D3 and D4). Such  compounds are often given in combination with L-dopa therapy to 
reduce  the  dose  of  the  latter  thereby  increasing  treatment  tolerability.  The  response  to  L-dopa  is 
generally stable during the initial years of treatment. However, due to the progressive degeneration of 
the DA system, the neuronal buffer capacity is believed to be reduced. At that stage, the patient may 
switch within seconds from a state of relatively good mobility to one of severe Parkinsonism, giving 
rise  to  the  term  “on-off”  phenomenon.  This  end-of-dose  deterioration  implies  a  shortening  of  the 
duration of action of L-dopa. Off periods tend to become longer and to set in abruptly. On periods are 
often  combined  with  dyskinesias  and/or  other  movement  disorders.  Furthermore,  L-dopa  and  DA 
agonist treatments are also associated with other side effects, such as nausea, psychiatric disturbances 
and cardiovascular effects.  
Pramipexole  is  a  synthetic  amino-benzothiazole  derivative.  It  has  been  shown  to  be  a  selective  and 
specific full DA receptor agonist with high affinity and selectivity for the DA D2 receptor subfamily, 
and particularly the D3 receptor subtype.  
Mirapexin  tablets  are  indicated  for  treatment  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  advanced  idiopathic 
Parkinson’s disease in combination with levodopa i.e. over the course of the disease, when the effect 
of levodopa wears off or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the therapeutic effect occur (end of 
dose or “on off” fluctuations).  
Doses of pramipexole should be titrated to achieve an individual optimal therapeutic response, starting 
at a daily dose of 0.264 mg (0.375 mg of salt). The individual maintenance dose should be in the range 
of 0.264 mg (0.375 mg of salt) to a maximum of 3.3 mg (4.5 mg of salt) per day, given in 3 divided 
doses. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Mirapexin  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  pramipexole  dihydrochloride  monohydrate.  There  are  5 
tablet strengths containing 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7  mg, and 1.1 mg of the active substance 
pramipexole,  respectively  corresponding  to  0.125  mg,  0.25  mg,  0.5  mg,  1.0  mg,  and  1.5  mg  of 
pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate. The 5 strengths are differentiated by size, shape and code 
embossed. The tablets contain mannitol, dried maize starch, collodial anhydrous silica, polyvidone and 
magnesium 
light-protecting 
polyamide/aluminium/polyvinylchloride blister foil and an aluminium covering foil. Each blister strip 
contains 10 tablets. There are 2 package sizes, 30 and 100 tablets. 
packaging  material 
stearate. 
primary 
The 
is 
a 
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Pramipexole  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder  that  is  freely  soluble  in  water  in  a  pH-
independent way, soluble in methanol, slightly soluble in ethanol and insoluble in dichloromethane. At 
a relative humidity above 92% it liquifies but at lower relative humidity no absorption of water occurs. 
The active substance is not light sensitive itself, but has been found to degrade in the tablet matrix or 
in binary mixtures with each excipient. A variety of degradation products have been identified but the 
mechanism of degradation is not  known.  By appropriate light protection  during  manufacture and by 
using a light protecting aluminium blister for packaging, photodegradation is avoided. 
Pramipexole has one chiral centre and is present as the S-enantiomer. Enantiomeric purity is assured 
during the synthesis and other enantiomers are not possible.  
Pramipexole  dihydrochloride  monohydrate  is  synthesised  using  standard  procedures.  The  chemical 
structure  of  pramipexole  has  been  confirmed  by  elemental  analysis,  interpreted  infra  red  (IR)-,  ultra 
violet  (UV)-,  mass  spectroscopy-,  nuclear  magnetic  resonance  spectra  and  X-ray  diffractometry. 
Routinely,  IR  and  UV  spectra  and  precipitation  of  chloride  anion  are  used  for  identification.  The 
purity 
liquid 
chromatography  (HPLC).  The  enantiomeric  purity  is  controlled  by  HPLC  and  by  specific  optical 
rotation. Residual solvents are controlled by gas chromatography (GC). All methods were adequately 
validated. 
layer  chromatography  (TLC)  and  high  performance 
is  determined  by 
thin 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  pharmaceutical  development  conducted  by  the  company  resulted  in  the  production  of 
conventional tablets. The tablets, except the lowest strength, have a scoreline. Tablet hardness limits 
have been set to ensure that tablets may be divided in halves with an acceptable uniformity of content. 
For  the  tablets  intended  to  be  divided,  is  has  been  proven  that  the  tablet  halves  meet  the  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements for uniformity of content. The hardness of the tablets has little influence on dissolution, 
due  to  the  high  water  solubility  of  the  active  substance.  Control  of  tablet  hardness  during  storage  is 
regarded to be sufficient. 
Manufacture and control 
Throughout  the  manufacturing  processes,  relevant,  acceptably  validated  in-process  controls  are 
performed. With respect to other ingredients, the tablets contain mannitol as filler, dried maize starch 
as disintegrant and binder, collodial anhydrous silica as disintegration promoter and glidant, povidone 
as binder and magnesium stearate as lubricant. The type of mannitol used has been shown to influence 
the  compression  behaviour.  Fulfilment  of  Ph.  Eur.  requirements  has  been  shown  for  all  excipients 
used. 
Control of the finished product includes assay of active substance, dissolution rate, content uniformity 
and  determination  of  degradation  products,  using  adequately  validated  methods.  Results  from  batch 
analyses showed that all batches complied with release specifications. 
Five known impurities including the (R)-enantiomer, one unidentified and acetone (residual solvent) 
were all qualified at their specification levels. 
Stability  
In  the  solid  state,  the  active  substance  has  shown  good  stability  characteristics  when  tested  under  a 
number  of  different  conditions.  The  proposed  limits  in  the  finished  product  specifications  for 
degradation  products  as  well  as  the  assay-limits  (shelf-life)  are  accepted  at  present  but  will  be 
reviewed  when  data  covering  the  whole  shelf-life  become  available.  Following  packaging  of  the 
finished  product  in  the  proposed  marketing  blister,  a  good  stability  was  demonstrated.  A  24  months 
shelf life is accepted when stored below 30 ºC and protected from light. Additional results from on-
going stability studies will be submitted when available. 
In summary, the chemical and pharmaceutical documentation for pramipexole was considered to be 
acceptable. 
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  action  of  pramipexole  has  been  studied  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  In  brain 
homogenates  or  cell  lines  expressing  cloned  human  receptors,  pramipexole  effectively  bound  to 
receptors  of  the  DA  D2  subfamily  (i.e  D2,  D3  and  D4),  with  the  highest  affinity  for  D3  binding  sites 
(Ki  0.5  nM).  Binding  to  adrenergic  alpha-2,  5HT1A  and  histamine-2  sites  was  weak  to  moderate 
(Ki > 240 nM). It lacked affinity for binding sites within the DA D1 subfamily (D1, D5) and for a large 
number  of  centrally  acting  neurotransmitters.  Further  in  vitro  studies  (e.g.  proton  generation  in  a 
microphysometer  assay,  stimulation  of  CHO  cell  mitogenesis)  showed  that  pramipexole  was  a  full 
agonist for receptors within the DA D2 subfamily. In vivo studies, e.g. electrophysiology, inhibition of 
prolactin  release,  DA  turnover  in  specific  brain  regions,  indicated  that  pramipexole  possessed  full 
agonist activity.  
Pramipexole  was  studied  in  two  appropriate  animal  models  of  PD.  In  MPTP  (1-methyl-4-phenyl-
1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine)-treated monkeys, it dose-dependently antagonised motor deficits and PD-
like  symptoms.  The  lowest  effective  oral  dose  was  0.053  mg/kg.  In  rats  with  unilateral  6-OHDA 
(6-hydroxydopamine)-induced  lesions  of  the  substantia  nigra,  pramipexole  induced  contralateral 
circling. These studies support the dopaminergic activity of pramipexole. At high doses, pramipexole 
protected DA neurones from degeneration in animal models of ischaemia or metamphetamine-induced 
neurotoxicity.  The  clinical  relevance  of  these  findings  is  not  known.  Taken  together,  these  data 
provide  adequate  evidence  of  pramipexole  being  a  selective  and  specific  full  agonist  at  the  DA  D2 
receptor  subfamily  acting  preferentially  via  D3  receptors.  Furthermore,  activity  in  relevant  animal 
models of PD was shown. 
The  general  pharmacology  program  revealed  mainly  effects  related  to  the  primary  pharmacological 
activity of pramipexole. Based on studies with relevant antagonists, these effects were considered to 
be  mediated  primarily  via  DA  D2,  although  a  few  effects  observed  at  high  doses  may  have  been 
mediated via histamine-2 or alpha-2 receptors. With respect to the CNS, both sedation and stimulation 
were  observed.  Furthermore,  REM  sleep  and  total  sleep  time  (rat,  cat)  were  reduced  in  a  dose-
dependent  manner.  Pramipexole  did  not  produce  extrapyramidal  side  effects  in  a  monkey  model,  it 
was  not  proconvulsive  in  mice,  and  did  not  affect  cocaine  self-administration  in  rats.  Pramipexole 
induced, depending on dose, both hypotensive and hypertensive effects. Respiratory function was not 
affected in cats. In mice, intestinal passage was moderately slowed and in anaesthetised rats, a slight 
diuretic  and  natriuretic  effect  was  observed.  Expectedly,  pramipexole  induced  emesis  in  dogs  and 
decreased prolactin levels in rats as well as in humans. In general, pramipexole in combination with 
other  drugs  used  for  the  treatment  of  PD  (L-dopa  +  carbidopa,  selegiline)  was  well  tolerated  by 
monkeys. No additive effects on cardiovascular function were seen in combination with haloperidol. 
Thus, these studies indicate a favourable general pharmacological profile of pramipexole. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of pramipexole was studied in mice, rats, rabbits, minipigs and monkeys, 
the  main  species  used  in  the  preclinical  program.  Protein  binding  was  low,  <  20%  in  all  species 
including humans. Distribution studies were conducted in rats with radiolabelled compound. A wide 
tissue  distribution  was  observed,  with  up  to  9-fold  higher  tissue  exposure  to  parent  compound 
observed  in  brain  compared  to  plasma.  In  pregnant  rats,  extensive  placental  transfer  to  fetuses  was 
observed  and  in  lactating  females,  levels  of  drug-related  radioactivity  in  milk  were  up  to  6  times 
higher than in plasma. After oral administration, absorption was rapid and the bioavailability high (70-
90%).  
Following oral administration of 14C-pramipexole, the metabolic pattern was similar in rodents, dogs, 
monkeys and humans. The extent of biotransformation was 20-50% of the dose, comprising mainly of 
dealkylation,  hydroxylation  and  glucuronide  conjugation.  The  major  route  of  excretion  was  via  the 
kidney,  with  50-80%  of  the  drug-related  radioactivity  recovered  in  urine,  consisting  of  the  parent 
compound and 5-8 minor metabolites. The pharmacokinetic profile of pramipexole in rabbits differed 
from other species, with a slower absorption and a higher degree of biotransformation. Studies in rat 
plasma as well as in human urine showed that pramipexole does not convert to its R(+)-enantiomer. 
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  pharmacokinetic  interspecies  comparisons,  rat,  minipig  and  monkey  were  considered  as 
relevant models for human safety assessment. 
Toxicology 
Single  dose  toxicity  of  pramipexole  after  oral  administration  was  studied  in  rodents,  dogs  and 
monkeys.  In  rodents,  the  acute  toxicity  was  considered  to  be  low.  Deaths  occurred  at  doses  of  
70-105  mg/kg  and  above.  CNS-related  signs  were  mainly  observed  which  at  high  doses  included 
ataxia, dyspnea and tremor/convulsions. Dogs and monkeys also displayed mainly CNS-related signs. 
In  dogs,  vomiting  occurred  at  0.0007  mg/kg  and  above.  Monkeys  displayed  major  excitation  at 
3.5 mg/kg. There were no indications of target organ or sex-specific toxicity. 
Repeated dose toxicity of pramipexole after oral administration was studied in rodents and monkeys 
(up  to  52  week  studies)  and  minipigs  (13  weeks).  Dogs  were  not  used  for  long-term  studies  due  to 
profound emesis caused by pramipexole. All species showed signs of toxicity related to exaggerated 
pharmacodynamic  responses  to  pramipexole,  i.e.  stimulation  of  dopamine  D2  receptor  subfamily, 
alpha-2  adrenoceptors  and/or  histamine  H2  receptors.  For  instance,  behavioural  changes  including 
hyperactivity were common and lead to a number of secondary effects such as reduced body weights 
and other stress-induced symptoms. Furthermore, in minipigs and monkeys, pramipexole moderately 
affected  cardiovascular  parameters.  In  rats,  the  potent  prolactin-inhibitory  effect  of  pramipexole 
affected reproductive organs (e.g. enlarged corpora lutea, pyometra). These findings are well known 
following  DA  agonist  administration  to  rats  and  are  considered  to  be  of  minor  clinical  relevance. 
During long-term exposure of albino rats, a dose-related retinal degeneration was observed. Additional 
mechanistic  studies  indicated  that  simultaneous  exposure  of  albino  rats  to  pramipexole  and  light 
caused retinal degeneration. However, this was not observed in pigmented rats, albino mice or other 
animal species. 
Reproductive toxicity studies showed that pramipexole affected oestrous cycles and reduced female 
fertility  as  expected  for  a  DA  agonist.  Male  fertility  was  not  affected  in  a  mating  study  and 
histopathological evaluation within the toxicological program did not reveal adverse effects on  male 
reproductive  organs.  Following  administration  of  pramipexole  to  rats  and  rabbits  during  the 
organogenetic  period,  no  teratogenicity  was  observed  but  pramipexole  was  embryotoxic  in  rats  at 
maternally  toxic  dose  levels.  However,  due  to  the  selection  of  animal  models  and  the  limited 
parameters evaluated in these studies, the potential adverse effects of pramipexole on pregnancy and 
male  fertility  have  not  been  fully  elucidated.  Peri-post  natal  exposure  of  dams  and  follow-up  of 
offspring did not reveal any concern. Due to inhibition of prolactin secretion, pramipexole like other 
DA agonists is expected to inhibit lactation. 
In a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests, pramipexole lacked genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity  was  studied  in  mice  and  rats  following  2  years  administration.  In  male  rats, 
hypertrophy  and  adenomas  of  Leydig  cells  were  observed.  These  changes  were  considered  to  be 
related to the prolactin-inhibiting effect of pramipexole and are known to be a rat-specific response to 
inhibition  of  prolactin  secretion.  Therefore,  these  findings  were  not  considered  to  be  of  concern  for 
human safety 
A number of special toxicity studies did not reveal cause for concern with respect to local tolerance, 
immunotoxicity,  drug  dependence,  and  haemolytic  or  local  anaesthetic  effects.  Intraocular  pressure 
was reduced after topical application to rabbits, which likely was a DA D2 receptor mediated effect.  
Summary and conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  of  pramipexole  being  a 
selective  and  specific  full  agonist  at  the  DA  D2  receptor  subfamily  acting  preferentially  via  D3 
receptors.  Furthermore,  activity  in  relevant  animal  models  of  PD  has  been  shown.  The  general 
pharmacology program indicated a favourable general pharmacological profile of pramipexole. 
Based  on  pharmacokinetic  interspecies  comparisons,  rat,  minipig  and  monkey  were  considered  as 
relevant models for human safety assessment. Overall, the toxicology program revealed mainly effects 
related  to  the  pharmacodynamic  action  of  pramipexole,  i.e.  affects  secondary  to  its  DA  agonist 
activity.  Comparisons  of  plasma  concentrations  (Cmax)  in  all  species,  at  dose  levels  causing  toxicity 
secondary  to  the  pharmacodynamic  activity  of  pramipexole  and  following  clinical  doses  to  humans 
revealed narrow or no safety margins. In general, CNS-related toxicity was dose limiting. In addition, 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
during  long-term  exposure  of  albino  rats,  dose-related  retinal  degeneration  was  observed.  This 
information has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC). 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical program was aimed at evaluating the efficacy and safety of pramipexole for the treatment 
of both early and advanced Parkinson’s disease. The core clinical documentation consisted of 10 phase 
II/III trials. Six studies were evaluated for efficacy, of which 5 were considered as main studies and 1 
was  a  trial  where  pramipexole  and  bromocriptine  were  compared  with  placebo.  The  remaining  4 
studies  were  only  included  in  the  safety  analysis.  In  addition,  17  faze  I  trials  in  female  and  male 
healthy volunteers were conducted. 
Pharmacodynamics and Pharmacokinetics  
The  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  pramipexole  were  studied  in  17  phase  I 
trials  in  healthy  volunteers  (about  200  males  and  55  females).  Single  or  repeated  oral  doses  up  to 
3.2 mg/day were administered in different dosing schedules. Intravenous or transdermal administration 
was also studied in a small number of subjects. 
In single increasing dose tolerance studies, expected pharmacodynamic effects of a DA agonist were 
demonstrated such as reduced prolactin levels and increased growth hormone levels.  
Pharmacokinetic profile 
The basic pharmacokinetic profile of pramipexole was adequately described. It was rapidly absorbed 
with  a  bioavailability  above  90%.  The  volume  of  distribution  was  high  (about  400  l)  and  protein 
binding  was  low  (<20%).  Total  body  clearance  was  about  500  ml/min  and  the  elimination  half-life 
ranged from 8 (young) to 12 h (elderly). A linear dose-concentration relationship was shown for doses 
up to 1.1 mg t.i.d. (3.3 mg).  
Elimination 
Pramipexole is predominantly (about 90%) excreted unchanged via the kidney. There are indications 
that pramipexole is secreted via an active transport system for cations, for instance its renal clearance 
was  higher  than  the  glomerular  filtration  rate.  Furthermore,  the  actively  secreted  cation  cimetidine 
reduced pramipexole clearance. Thus, other actively secreted cations may interact with the secretion of 
pramipexole. These possible interactions were not studied but have been adequately addressed in the 
SPC. 
Interactions 
Concomitant food intake did not affect the bioavailability of pramipexole. With respect to other types 
of  interactions,  the  combination  L-dopa/carbidopa  was  studied.  Pramipexole  increased  the  rate  of 
levodopa absorption. Cmax increased by 71% in females and by 13% in males, and Tmax was reduced by 
1.1  (males)  to  2.5  h  (females).  However,  the  extent  of  levodopa  absorption  or  elimination  was  not 
affected. Safety aspects of this interaction are addressed in the section on Clinical Safety. 
Special populations 
Not  unexpectedly,  the  elimination  of  pramipexole  was  reduced  in  patients  with  impaired  renal 
function. It was concluded that the dose should be reduced by the same percentage as the decline in 
creatinine clearance. Furthermore, the renal clearance of pramipexole was about 20% lower in women 
and  elderly  than  in  young  male  subjects.  However,  special  dose  recommendations  for  women  or 
elderly are not considered necessary since dose titration is made on an individual basis. Patients with 
hepatic impairment were not studied which is acceptable since pramipexole is predominantly excreted 
unchanged.  
Bioequivalence 
The  tablet  formulations  used  in  the  main  clinical  trials  and  the  final  formulations  intended  for 
marketing were bioequivalent with respect to area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), 
maximum and minimum plasma concentrations at 8 h (Cmax, Cmin8h) and the time to reach Cmax (Tmax). 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic efficacy 
In  advanced  PD  patients,  the  core  clinical  documentation  consisted  of  3  trials  (M/2730/0010, 
M/2730/0019 and M/2730/0022, below referred to as 10, 19 and 22). One trial was conducted where 
pramipexole  and  bromocriptine  were  compared  with  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  advanced  PD 
(M/2730/0036). In addition, 2 trials in patients with early PD (M/2730/0001 and M/2730/0004; below 
referred to as 01 and 04) were conducted. All trials were double blind and placebo controlled, and was 
conducted according to GCP rules. 
Patient population 
Patients  of  both  sexes,  who  were  at  least  30  years  old  (mean  age  was  59-63  years)  and  had  the 
diagnosis idiopathic PD, participated in the trials. Early disease was defined as <7 years duration and 
characterised  as  stage  I-III  on  the  Modified  Hoehn  and  Yahr  scale,  while  advanced  disease  was 
characterised as stage II-IV on the same scale. Advanced disease patients were taking L-dopa/DDI (i.e 
carbidopa or benserazide) and showing end-of-dose phenomena. In early disease patients, any L-dopa 
therapy  should  have  been  terminated  at  least  60  days  prior  to  the  start  of  the  trial.  Concomitant 
administration of selegiline or anticholinergics was allowed in both patient groups. Exclusion criteria 
included  atypical  drug-induced  parkinsonian  symptoms,  metabolic  disorders,  a  number  of  central 
nervous system disorders, cardiovascular disease. The number of Intention to Treat (ITT) patients in 
each trial is displayed in Table 1. 
Table 1: Overview of the patient disposition in the main pramipexole trials 
Trial 
No. (%) of ITT patients 
No. (%) of patients discontinuing  
pramipexole 
placebo 
pramipexole 
placebo 
Advanced PD 
10 
19 
22 
Early PD 
01 
04 
Dose regimens 
181 (100) 
33 (100) 
34 (100) 
163 (99) 
212 (99.5) 
[1.1mg: 54, 
2.2mg: 50, 
3.3mg: 54, 
4.6mg: 54] 
177 (99) 
43 (100) 
33 (100) 
170 (99) 
51 (100) 
30 (17) 
5 (15) 
4 (12) 
28 (17) 
25 (12) 
38 (22) 
7 (16) 
3 (9) 
34 (20) 
1 (2) 
In each  study,  an  increasing dose  phase of 6-7 weeks (12 weeks in trial 36)  was allowed before the 
maintenance phase of 4 weeks (trials 04, 19 and 22) or 24 weeks (trials 01, 10 and 36). In all trials but 
04, a flexible maintenance dose ranging from 0.26-3.3 mg/day, was given according to the tolerability 
of each patient. In study 04, subjects were randomised to fixed doses of 1.1, 2.2, 3.3 or 4.6 mg/day. In 
trial 36, the bromocriptine dose ranged from 1.25-30 mg/d given t.i.d. 
Efficacy parameters 
In  all  studies,  the  Unified  Parkinson’s  Disease  Rating  Scale  (UPDRS)  was  used  as  the  primary 
efficacy measure, with the primary endpoint defined as the change in UPDRS scores from baseline to 
the  last  visit  during  the  maintenance  phase.  The  main  endpoints  were  the  UPDRS  Part  II,  aimed  at 
measuring activities of daily living (ADL), and Part III which is based on clinical motor examination. 
Parts  I-IV  of the UPDRS  were  not  used consistently  in  the  different  main trials, but endpoints were 
predefined and this inconsistency was therefore accepted. A number of secondary endpoints were also 
assessed, e.g. UPDRS parts I-III individual components, summary of modified Hoehn and Yahr scale, 
reduction of L-dopa dose. 
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trials in advanced PD 
M/2730/0010  was  a  US/Canadian  phase  III  trial.  Altogether  360  PD  patients  (181  on  pramipexole, 
179  on  placebo)  with  mean  disease  duration  of  >9  years,  showing  end-of-dose  phenomena  when 
receiving  a  stable  dose  of  L-dopa/DDI  were  included.  The  primary  efficacy  measures  were  UPDRS 
part  II, assessed  during ‘off’ and ‘on’ periods, and part III,  assessed  only during ‘on’ periods.  From 
week  3  of  the  maintenance  phase  and  onwards,  part  II  scores  were  significantly  improved  in  the 
pramipexole  group vs  placebo, with a better effect  during ‘off’ time. Effects on part III scores were 
less  clear,  but  significant  improvement  was  demonstrated.  These  results  were  considered  also  to  be 
clinically significant. A secondary endpoint of clinical relevance was the percent of ‘off’ time during 
daily  waking  hours.  This  parameter  was  reduced  by  pramipexole  treatment,  from  37%  to  24%, 
corresponding to about 2.1 h, vs 37% to 34% in the placebo group. 
M/2730/0019  and  M/2730/0022  were  supportive  phase  II  trials  conducted  in  Europe.  Advanced 
idiopathic PD patients showing disturbances on optimised L-dopa/DDI therapy were included. In these 
trials,  the  L-dopa  dose  was  half  of  that  in  the  US/Canadian  trial  (400  mg  vs  800  mg  daily).  The 
primary  efficacy  measure,  the  total  UPDRS  score,  was  significantly  improved  in  the  pramipexole 
groups in both studies. However, in study 22, the part III score did not differ from the placebo group. 
These studies support a dopaminergic effect of pramipexole.  
Comparative trial in advanced PD 
M/2730/0036 was a phase III European/Canadian trial, comparing pramipexole (n=80), bromocriptine 
(n=84)  and  placebo  (n=83)  in  advanced  idiopathic  PD  patients  showing  disturbances  on  optimised 
L-dopa/DDI therapy. In this trial, pramipexole and bromocriptine were superior to placebo. Although 
the  trial  was  not  designed  to  specifically  evaluate  pramipexole  versus  bromocriptine,  the  data 
indicated that the drugs had comparable potency in the treatment of advanced PD.  
Trials in early PD 
M/2730/0001 was a US phase III trial where 335 patients were randomised to pramipexole or placebo. 
136  and  137  patients  in  each  group  completed  the  24-week  maintenance  phase.  Patients  on 
pramipexole  showed  statistically  significant  decreases  in  UPDRS  II  and  III  scores  compared  to  the 
placebo group. The mean change of the UPDRS III score from baseline to week 24 was -5 vs +0.8 in 
the  placebo  group,  a  change  that  was  regarded  to  be  also  clinically  significant.  The  changes  were 
evident at the start and throughout the maintenance period.  
M/2730/0004 was a US/Canadian phase III trial in which altogether 264 patients were randomised to 
fixed doses of 1.1, 2.2, 3.3 or 4.6 mg/day pramipexole or placebo. The sum UPDRS I-III score was 
used as the primary efficacy variable. Based on that measure, all pramipexole doses showed a similar 
therapeutic  efficacy,  which  was  superior  to  that  of  placebo,  thus  no  dose-effect  relationship  was 
demonstrated. UPDRS III scores were also significantly different but no significant differences were 
demonstrated for UPDRS II scores.  
Summary and conclusions on efficacy 
Overall,  the  clinical  program  for  pramipexole  was  well  conducted.  The  patients  studied  were 
representative  of  the  target  population  with  respect  to  concomitant  therapies  and  other  demographic 
variables. In general, the endpoints chosen to assess efficacy were regarded as clinically relevant.  
At  clinical  use,  doses  of  pramipexole  like  other  DA  agonists,  are  titrated  to  achieve  an  individual 
optimal therapeutic response. The  minimum  daily effective dose  has  not  been defined, but  1.1  mg/d 
was found to be the lowest dose with a clear effect vs placebo. Although no dose-effect relationship 
was  demonstrated  in  trial  04  (similar  effects  were  seen  with  all  doses  used  ranging  from  1.1  to 
4.6 mg/d), individual patients may need doses higher than 1.1 mg to gain a sufficient effect. Overall, 
the proposed dosage was supported by the clinical results, and the proposed method for dose titration 
is  in  line  with  clinical  practice  for  most  antiparkinson  drugs.  Thus,  the  dosage  recommendations 
including  a  maximum  daily  dose  of  3.3  mg,  given  in  3  divided  doses,  as  outlined  in  the  SPC  are 
regarded as adequate.  
In  advanced  idiopathic  PD  patients  showing  end-of-dose  phenomena  on  optimised  L-dopa/DDI  (i.e. 
carbidopa  or  benserazide)  therapy,  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  effect  of 
pramipexole  has  been  demonstrated  for  up  to  6  months  in  comparison  to  placebo.  In  this  patient 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
population, one comparative trial indicated a similar effect of pramipexole and bromocriptine which 
both were superior to placebo. 
With  respect  to  treatment  of  early  disease  patients,  i.e.  patients  not  receiving  L-dopa  therapy,  the 
available data are not sufficient to support this indication. Although pramipexole showed statistically 
significant effects in comparison to placebo, the lack of comparison with other antiparkinson treatment 
was  regarded  as  a  major  deficiency.  Furthermore,  the  long-term  efficacy  in  this  population  was  not 
sufficiently proven.  
Clinical safety 
The  safety  data  (cut-off  date  February  1996)  for  pramipexole  were  primarily  derived  from  10 
controlled  and  completed  trials  (i.e.  the  6  trials  described  in  the  efficacy  section  and  4  trials  not 
included in the efficacy analysis due to poor patients recruitment or single blind design), comprising 
altogether  782  pramipexole-exposed  patients,  633  patients  on  placebo  and  84  patients  on 
bromocriptine. Additional data on deaths, serious adverse events and discontinuations were obtained 
from 6 open-label trials and from trials in schizophrenia (deaths only). In these trials the total number 
of patients exposed to pramipexole was 1511 of which more than 800 were treated for at least 1 year.  
The total number of deaths reported for pramipexole and placebo was 14 and 3, respectively, of which 
12  (0.7%)  and  2  (0.4%)  occurred  in  the  completed  studies.  When  corrected  for  the  longer  exposure 
time to pramipexole due to the non-controlled open-label phase, the death incidence was considered 
comparable for pramipexole and placebo. In one occasion, the observer reported a possible relation to 
treatment. 
In clinical trials, abnormal vision was reported in 3% of pramipexole patients’ vs 0.4% in the placebo 
group. Furthermore, preclinical data showed that pramipexole induced retinal degeneration in albino 
rats.  Detailed  ophthalmological  investigations  have  only  been  performed  in  a  limited  number  of 
patients  receiving  pramipexole.  However,  the  available  data  are  not  sufficient  to  conclude  that 
pramipexole  does  not  cause  retinal  degeneration.  Therefore,  ophthalmologic  monitoring 
is 
recommended  at  regular  intervals  or  if  vision  abnormalities  should  occur.  In  addition,  effects  of 
pramipexole on ocular function will be monitored in a post marketing study.  
There  were  also  indications  of  increased  dyskinesia  in  patients  administered  pramipexole  and 
concomitant  L-dopa  therapy,  particularly  during  the  initial  pramipexole  dose  titration,  and  that  the 
incidence of dyskinesia was higher in women. This may, at least partly, be related to the increased rate 
of  L-dopa  absorption  induced  by  pramipexole  (see  section  on  Pharmacokinetics  above).  In  cases  of 
increased  dyskinesia,  the  L-dopa  dose  should  be  reduced.  In  addition,  a  post  marketing  interaction 
study with pramipexole and L-dopa will be conducted to further evaluate gender differences. 
In the following sections, data from the 10 completed controlled trials are presented. Treatment was 
discontinued in 15%, 20% and 20% of patients treated with pramipexole, placebo and bromocriptine, 
respectively. In the pramipexole treated patients, the most common reasons for discontinuation were 
hallucination  (2.7%  vs  0.4%  for  placebo),  nausea  (1.4%  vs  0.7%  for  placebo),  hypotension  (1%  vs 
0.5%  for  placebo)  and  somnolence  (1.3%  vs  0.2%  for  placebo)  and  in  the  placebo  group 
extrapyramidal  symptoms  (5.5%  vs  1.4%  for  pramipexole)  and  ‘no  drug  effect’  (1.3%  vs  0.1%  for 
pramipexole). 
Most adverse events occurred with similar frequencies in the pramipexole and placebo groups; CNS- 
related  effects  being  most  common.  In  the  pramipexole  group,  the  incidences  of  hallucinations  
(13%  vs  5%  placebo)  and  somnolence  (15%  vs  6%  placebo)  were  increased  while  extrapyramidal 
symptoms  were  more  frequent  in  placebo  treated  patients  (20%  vs  14%  pramipexole).  Nausea  and 
constipation  were  also  more  frequent  in  the  pramipexole  group.  Both  gastrointestinal  and  CNS  side 
effects  were  more  frequent  during  the  initial  dose  ascending  phases  of  the  trials.  However, 
hallucinations, somnolence and insomnia did not diminish over time. When comparing patients with 
early  and  advanced  disease,  hallucinations  were  most  common  in  advanced  disease  patients  while 
somnolence occurred more commonly in early disease patients. In the comparative trial, the side effect 
profiles for pramipexole and bromocriptine were in general similar. 
Long-term  safety  of  pramipexole  has  not  been  assessed  in  placebo-controlled  trials.  However,  more 
than 500 patients have been exposed to 2.2-3.3 mg/d of pramipexole for more than 60 weeks in open 
studies. There were no indications of new side effects or of an increased frequency of already known 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse effects. Thus, the available data are considered to provide acceptable evidence for long-term 
safety of pramipexole. 
Sudden onset of sleep during daily activities has been reported in rare cases post marketing. This can 
be life threatening to the patient or others depending on the circumstances. These episodes have been 
reported  in  some  cases  without  awareness  of  warning  signs.  If  this  occurs,  reduction  of  dosage  or 
termination  of  therapy  should  be  considered.  Patients  being  treated  with  pramipexole  must  be 
informed not to drive or engage in other activities where impaired alertness could put themselves or 
others at risk of serious injury or death (e.g. operating machines). Because of possible additive effects, 
caution  should  be  advised  when  patients  are  taking  other  sedating  medication  or  alcohol  in 
combination with pramipexole. 
Summary and conclusions on clinical safety 
The side-effect profile of pramipexole includes hallucinations, sleep disturbances and gastrointestinal 
effects.  In  addition,  there  were  concerns  regarding  the  potential  of  pramipexole  to  cause  ocular 
toxicity, including retinal degeneration. Since there  are  not sufficient data available to conclude that 
pramipexole  does  not  cause  retinal  degeneration,  ophthalmologic  monitoring  is  recommended  at 
regular  intervals  or  if  vision  abnormalities  should  occur.  There  were  also  concerns  regarding  a 
possible increased dyskinesia frequency, particularly in women. This may be related to an interaction 
between  pramipexole  and  L-dopa  resulting  in  an  increased  L-dopa  absorption  rate.  In  cases  of 
increased dyskinesia, the L-dopa dose should be reduced. By these precautions, which are pointed out 
in the SPC, the potential safety concerns (ocular toxicity and the L-dopa interaction) were regarded to 
be adequately addressed. 
Overall risk/benefit analysis 
In  advanced  idiopathic  PD  patients  showing  end-of-dose  phenomena  on  optimised  L-dopa/DDI  (i.e 
carbidopa  or  benserazide)  therapy,  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  effect  of 
pramipexole  has  been  demonstrated  for  up  to  6  months  in  comparison  to  placebo.  In  this  patient 
population, one comparative trial indicated a similar effect of pramipexole and bromocriptine which 
both were superior to placebo. 
The side-effect profile of pramipexole includes hallucinations, sleep disturbances and gastrointestinal 
effects.  Based  on  findings  in  long-term  toxicity  studies  in  albino  rats  which  indicated  dose-related 
retinal degeneration, there were concerns regarding the potential ocular toxicity. The available clinical 
data  are  not  sufficient  to  conclude  that  pramipexole  does  not  cause  retinal  degeneration.  There  was 
also a concern regarding a possible gender difference in dyskinesia frequency, which may be related to 
the increased rate of L-dopa absorption. Recommendations regarding ophthalmologic monitoring and 
L-dopa  dose  adjustments  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  By  these  precautions,  the  potential  safety 
concerns were considered to be adequately addressed.  
Taken together, the overall risk / benefit ratio for pramipexole was considered to be  positive for the 
following indication: Mirapexin tablets are indicated for treatment of signs and symptoms of advanced 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease in combination with levodopa i.e. over the course of the disease, when 
the  effect  of  levodopa  wears  off  or  becomes  inconsistent  and  fluctuations  of  the  therapeutic  effect 
occur (end of dose or “on off” fluctuations).  
5. 
Conclusions 
Mirapexin  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  pramipexole  dihydrochloride  monohydrate.  There  are  5 
tablet strengths containing 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7  mg, and 1.1 mg of the active substance 
pramipexole,  respectively  corresponding  to  0.125  mg,  0.25  mg,  0.5  mg,  1.0  mg,  and  1.5  mg  of 
pramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrate. 
Overall, an acceptable quality of the product has been demonstrated in the chemical, pharmaceutical 
documentation. 
Based  on  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  studies,  pramipexole  has  been  shown  to  be  a  selective  and 
specific  full  DA  agonist  with  high  affinity  for  the  DA  D2  receptor  family,  and  particularly  the  D3 
receptor subtype.  
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In advanced idiopathic PD patients showing end-of-dose phenomena on optimised L-dopa therapy, a 
clinically relevant and statistically significant effect of pramipexole has been demonstrated. The safety 
concerns,  potential  ocular  toxicity  and  gender  differences  with  respect  to  dyskinesia  have  been 
adequately  addressed.  Therefore,  the  CPMP  considered  the  risk  /  benefit  ratio  being  positive  and 
recommended  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation  for  all  strengths  and  presentations  of  this 
medicinal product. 
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
