12 December 2019 
EMA/155423/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pramipexole 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002491/201904 
Period covered by the PSUR: 06 April 2016 To: 06 April 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pramipexole, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Based on evidence from the scientific literature, inclusion of information regarding risk factors of 
dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome (DAWS) is considered relevant. Presence of impulse control 
disorders (ICD) has been consistently linked to DAWS in six retrospective chart reviews and one 
prospective observational study. High daily dose and high cumulative doses of dopamine agonists (DA) 
has been inconsistently linked to DAWS. Regardless of the inconsistency, the evidence points to an 
association between DAWS and high daily dose and/or cumulative doses of dopamine agonists. Based 
on these findings it is considered relevant to include the risk factors ICD, high daily dose and/or 
cumulative doses of dopamine agonists (DA) in the product information section 4.4. 
DAWS has predominantly been reported in patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD), although there are 
reports of it occurring among patients with Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). The wording about 
discontinuing pramipexole should therefore not be limited to the PD indication. In consequence 
‘tapering’ should be supplemented by ‘discontinuing’ in section 4.4 regarding DAWS, to make the 
wording also applicable for the RLS indication (tapering is not required in the RLS indication). 
As DAWS symptoms occur upon dopamine agonist tapering/discontinuation, it is vital to distinguish 
between undermedication of the underlying medical disorder and DAWS. If the DAWS symptoms are 
mistakenly attributed to PD the clinician might increase the dose of levodopa, however this will not 
alleviate the DAWS symptoms. As combination therapy with DA and levodopa are often used, it is 
considered relevant for healthcare professionals to be informed that withdrawal symptoms do not 
respond to increasing of the levodopa dose, to aid in the differential diagnosis. 
Further, updates of SmPC section 4.2 and PIL section 3 to include information regarding treatment 
discontinuation and DAWS, are considered relevant. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pramipexole the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pramipexole is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/155423/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
