20 September 2012 
EMA/568034/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Mircera 
methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/739/A-20/0039 
Note 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 4 
Assessment report  
EMA/568034/2012  
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
  
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
On 9 December 2011, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) was made aware by Roche of deficiencies 
in the quality management system at Roche’s ingredients manufacturing site, Roche Carolina Inc. 
(RCI), Florence, in the United States of America (USA).  
An internal investigation conducted by Roche from 29 November 2011 to 8 December 2011 revealed 
information indicating deficiencies with regard to good manufacturing practice (GMP). On 13 December 
2011 the company further informed the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) on 
this issue during an oral explanation. The investigation raised concerns with regard to the cleaning 
practices, potential data integrity and GMP documentation practices at RCI. Events such as missing 
documentation, falsification of maintenance data sheets, inadequate cleaning, lack of documented 
involvement and accountability by Manufacturing and Quality leadership constitute a non-exhaustive 
list. 
Deficiencies observed in the oversight of manufacturing and quality operations at RCI raised questions 
on the overall quality assurance system, which could potentially have a detrimental impact on the 
quality and safety of products manufactured and released by the site. 
The site produces a number of ingredients (e.g. active substances, intermediates and other materials) 
used in the manufacturing process of six centrally authorised medicines, i.e. alli, Mircera, Pegasys, 
Tamiflu, Xeloda and Xenical. 
Regarding the centrally authorised products, the activities at RCI include manufacture of active 
substance by chemical synthesis for Tamiflu and Xeloda, milling of the active substance for alli and 
Xenical, and manufacture of a starting material (pegylation reagent) for Mircera and Pegasys. 
The MAH having considered the key issues identified in their internal audit report, their risk 
assessment of the medicinal products, the sourcing of the material from alternative manufacturing 
sites and the availability of alternative treatment options decided to put on-hold the release and 
further processing of any ingredients from this manufacturing site and of any finished products using 
these ingredients from RCI until a positive conclusion of the investigations. Corrective and preventive 
actions (CAPAs) were initiated at the site to ensure compliance with GMP, and a review by a third party 
consultant was performed.  
An assessment of the impact of the issues identified at RCI and Roche’s CAPAs on the quality of the 
ingredients and, consequently, on the quality of the finished product was considered necessary. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004 and requested the CHMP on 15 December 2011 to assess the above concerns and 
their impact on the benefit/risk for alli, Mircera, Pegasys, Tamiflu, Xeloda and Xenical, and to give its 
opinion on whether the marketing authorisation for these products should be maintained, varied, 
suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Mircera is a solution for injection for either subcutaneous or intravenous use that contains the active 
substance methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta. It is available in pre-filled syringes at various 
strengths.  
Mircera is indicated for the treatment of anaemia associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Treatment is administered once every two 
Assessment report  
EMA/568034/2012  
Page 3/5 
 
 
  
 
 
weeks or once monthly for correction of anaemia in patients without previous treatment with an 
erythropoiesis stimulating agent (ESA) or once monthly in patients already receiving an ESA. 
Product specific risk assessments were undertaken by the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) to 
address the concerns identified at RCI. It was noted that for Mircera, only the pegylation reagent is 
produced at RCI in a small scale manufacturing area which is further processed to the final drug 
substance (polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta) in another manufacturing site (Penzberg). Before further 
processing of the pegylation reagent received from RCI, several testings are performed at Penzberg 
site where quality defects, if existing, would have been detected. It was noted that no out of 
specification (OOS) results were reported at Penzberg site from analysis performed on the pegylation 
reagent received from RCI. 
The risk assessment conducted also assessed whether any contaminants could enter the 
manufacturing process for the reagent and could be carried over to the final active substance. It was 
concluded that all potential contaminants would be consistently removed during the purification 
process of Mircera drug substance. Furthermore, as part of the CAPAs, dedicated equipment will be 
used for the peg-reagent for Mircera and will not be shared any longer with Pegasys. This measure 
addresses satisfactorily the potential risk of cross-contamination. 
In addition, the external third party consultancy group performed a product specific assessment to 
determine if the pegylation reagent will meet specifications throughout shelf-life and to identify any 
potential compliance gaps. It was concluded that none of the deficiencies identified would impact the 
ability of the pegylation reagent to meet specifications throughout the retest period. 
RCI is implementing CAPAs that address the specific actions necessary to correct product specific 
deficiencies as well as the system deficiencies identified. An inspection was held at RCI by the 
supervisory authorities in May 2012 in order to assess the extent of the issues identified by Roche and 
the appropriateness of the proposed corrective action plan.   
Based on all available data and taking into account the CAPA plan, the CHMP considered that the 
identified deficiencies shall not affect the quality of the pegylation reagent and, therefore, shall not 
affect the quality of the active substance. Subsequently, no impact on the quality and safety of the 
finished product is expected. On the basis of the proposed measures and the feedback from the 
inspection, the CHMP was reassured that appropriate corrective actions are being implemented. 
Therefore, the CHMP considers that the benefit-risk balance of Mircera manufactured using materials 
from RCI is positive and recommends the maintenance of its marketing authorisation. 
3.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAH in writing and at an oral 
explanation, as well as the inspection report, 
Whereas: 
• 
• 
The manufacturing site RCI was found at an internal audit to have GMP deficiencies in relation to 
the production of a number of ingredients of centrally authorised products, including ingredients 
for Mircera. This investigation raised concerns such as the cleaning practices, potential data 
integrity and GMP documentation practices at the site; 
Appropriate corrective and  preventive actions are being implemented at RCI to correct the 
deficiencies identified and this was confirmed by an inspection;  
Assessment report  
EMA/568034/2012  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
  
 
 
• 
Based on all available data and taking into account the CAPA plan, the CHMP considered that the 
identified deficiencies shall not affect the quality of the pegylation reagent and, therefore, shall 
not affect the quality of the active substance. Subsequently, no impact on the quality and safety 
of the finished product is expected; 
the CHMP considers that the benefit-risk balance of Mircera is positive and therefore recommends the 
maintenance of its marketing authorisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/568034/2012  
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
  
 
 
