SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR METHOXY 
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL-EPOETIN BETA
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Mircera. The RMP details 
important risks of Mircera, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Mircera’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Mircera summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Mircera should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Mircera should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Mircera RMP.
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Mircera is authorized for the treatment of symptomatic anemia associated with chronic 
kidney disease (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains methoxy polyethylene 
glycol-epoetin beta as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous or 
intravenous route.
Further information about the evaluation of Mircera benefits can be found in Mircera
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage. 
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE
OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS
Important risks of Mircera, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Mircera risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g.,
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update report (PSUR)
assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These measures
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION
Important risks of Mircera are risks that need special risk management activities to
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely
administered or taken.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of
Mircera.  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been
established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to information
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected
(e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
None
Important potential risks
Tumor growth progression
Missing information
None
II.B SUMMARY OF IMPORTANT RISKS
Important potential risk: Tumor growth progression
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
•
•
•
Preclinical studies
Clinical studies
Meta-analysis of 53 clinical studies
Tumor growth promotion is considered a potential risk of 
the ESA class.  However, there is no direct evidence of 
tumor growth promotion for methoxy polyethylene glycol-
epoetin beta. In the meta-analysis which provides 
strongest evidence for ESAs to date, there is no study with 
methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta.
Risk factors and risk groups Risk factors or risk groups have not been established for 
tumor growth promotion under methoxy polyethylene 
glycol-epoetin beta treatment.
Risk-minimization measures Routine risk-minimization measures:
Routine risk communication:
SmPC section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for 
use
SmPC section 5.1, Pharmacodynamic properties
Routine risk minimization activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk:
None
Other risk minimization measures beyond the Product 
Information:
Legal Status: Mircera is a prescription only medicine.  
ESAerythropoietin stimulating agent; SmPCSummary of Product Characeteristics.
POST-AUTHORIZATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
II.C
II.C.1
None
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan
None
