23 March 2017 
EMA/387250/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): brimonidine (centrally authorised product only) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010093/201608 
Period covered by the PSUR: 22 February 2016 to 31 August 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for brimonidine (centrally authorised 
product only), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Bradycardia as a systemic alpha-2 adrenergic effect of Mirvaso is highly plausible, if absorbed 
systemically in sufficient amount. Cumulatively, 6 cases of bradycardia-related terms were reported, 
and although confounding factors exist in some cases, overall the evidence is considered to be 
suggestive of an association between Mirvaso and bradycardia, particularly when applied to inflamed 
skin. This is also supported by the previously identified adverse event of hypotension, as alpha-2 
adrenergic stimulation would be expected to cause both effects. Therefore, the PRAC considered that 
section 4.8 of the SmPC should be updated to add the adverse reaction ‘bradycardia’ with a frequency 
‘rare’.  
Dizziness is a common symptom of the already listed adverse event ‘hypotension’. Cumulatively 37 
post-marketing reports of the preferred term dizziness have been received and of the cumulative total 
of 18 cases discussed in this PSUR under ‘haemodynamic effect’ as suggestive of an alpha-2 adrenergic 
effect of brimonidine, 9 cases included an event of dizziness. The PRAC considers that the evidence is 
suggestive of a causal association between brimonidine gel and dizziness, therefore the PRAC 
concluded that section 4.8 of the SmPC should be updated to add the adverse reaction ‘dizziness’ with 
a frequency ‘uncommon’.  
Of the 18 cases discussed by the MAH as suggestive of an alpha-2 adrenergic effect of brimonidine, 6 
occurred after Mirvaso was applied following recent laser therapy, and 1 case of bradycardia was 
associated with application to sun-burned skin. It is biologically plausible that increased systemic 
absorption via inflamed skin could increase the risk of systemic haemodynamic effects; therefore 
although a relationship cannot be definitely proven, the available evidence supports an association 
between recent laser therapy and the occurrence of haemodynamic adverse events on application of 
Mirvaso. Therefore, the PRAC considered that section 4.4 of the SmPC should be updated to add a 
warning on the risk of haemodynamic effects following laser therapy.  
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing brimonidine were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for brimonidine (centrally authorised product only) the CHMP 
is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing brimonidine 
(centrally authorised product only) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product 
information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/387250/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
