24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/820958/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: brimonidine (centrally authorised 
product only) 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010093/201502 
Period covered by the PSUR:  22 August 2014 – 21 February 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for brimonidine (centrally authorised 
product only), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Haemodynamic effects 
Although no new cases were identified in the reporting interval, more information has been provided 
on some of the previously identified cases. Given that there are at least three cases with implied 
rechallenge strongly suggestive of a haemodynamic effect (particularly hypotension and related 
symptoms) associated with the application of Mirvaso, as well as other suggestive cases, it is 
considered that there is sufficient evidence to warrant an update of the product information to 
inform prescribers and patients of the risk of haemodynamic effects with Mirvaso. 
Angioedema 
Two cases in the current reporting period reported face/tongue swelling in association with other 
symptoms suggestive of systemic allergic reaction.  In the previous reporting period, 4 cases 
involving lip and/or tongue swelling, throat or chest tightening, or difficulty breathing were 
considered suggestive of angioedema. Although the term angioedema was not specifically reported 
in any cases, the PRAC considered that a causal relationship between Mirvaso and the adverse event 
is at least a reasonable possibility. There was now a cumulative total of 6 cases with features 
strongly suggestive of angioedema. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding haemodynamic effects and angioedema, the PRAC 
considered that changes to the product information were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for brimonidine (centrally authorised product only) the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing brimonidine 
(centrally authorised product only) is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product 
information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
EMA/CHMP/820958/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
