26 March 2015  
EMA/CHMP/252628/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: brimonidine 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010093/201408 
Period covered by the PSUR: 21 February 2014 – 21 August 2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for brimonidine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
A large number of spontaneous reports of aggravation of symptoms of rosacea, such as erythema 
and flushing have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Some cases were reported as a 
‘rebound’ effect. The analysis of time to onset of symptoms was suggestive of an association with 
brimonidine; they usually occur within the first days of treatment and when specified, within few 
hours after drug application, suggesting causal relationship with brimonidine, which was also 
confirmed by the observed positive de-challenges. Therefore, in view of available data regarding the 
new important identified risk “Condition aggravated (erythema, flushing, skin burning sensation)”, 
the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were warranted. 
In addition, the cumulative search in the pharmacovigilance database to identify cases with terms 
suggestive of systemic allergic reactions revealed that a significant number of such cases have been 
reported. At least 4 cases have been identified with features of a systemic allergic reaction and 
strong evidence of a causal relationship with brimonidine and therefore, the PRAC considered 
appropriate to update the information for prescribers and patients. A number of cases of localised 
facial swelling were also identified. Therefore, in view of available data regarding the important 
potential risk “systemic allergic reaction”, the PRAC considered that changes to the product 
information were warranted. The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for brimonidine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing brimonidine is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
EMA/CHMP/252628/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
