EMA/401/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002642 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mirvaso 
brimonidine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mirvaso. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Mirvaso. 
For practical information about using Mirvaso, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Mirvaso and what is it used for? 
Mirvaso is a medicine that contains the active substance brimonidine tartrate. It is used to treat the 
facial erythema (redness of the skin of the face) in adults with rosacea, a long-term skin condition that 
often causes flushing and redness. 
How is Mirvaso used? 
Mirvaso is available as a gel (3 mg/g) and can only be obtained with a prescription. Mirvaso should 
only be applied to the skin of the face. Small amounts of gel (about pea size) are applied to the skin of 
the forehead, chin, nose and cheeks once a day as a thin layer. The areas should be left to dry out 
before applying other creams or cosmetics. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Mirvaso work? 
Rosacea is a skin condition affecting mainly the face. Symptoms include episodes of redness that have 
been linked to the widening of small blood vessels in the skin of the face, which increases the blood 
flow to the area.  
The active substance in Mirvaso, brimonidine tartrate, works by attaching to receptors called alpha2-
adrenergic receptors on the cells of blood vessels of the skin and activating them. This causes these 
blood vessels to narrow, which reduces the blood flow to the face, thus decreasing the redness. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Mirvaso have been shown in studies? 
Mirvaso has been evaluated in two main studies involving a total of 553 patients with moderate or 
severe facial redness caused by rosacea. Both studies compared Mirvaso with placebo (a dummy gel) 
over four weeks of treatment. The main measure of effectiveness was the percentage of patients who 
achieved a marked reduction of facial redness at different time points (3, 6, 9 and 12 hours) on days 
1, 15 and 29 after the start of the treatment. 
Both studies showed that Mirvaso applied once a day was more effective than placebo at reducing the 
facial redness in these patients.  
• 
In the first study, on day 1 the percentage or patients who had reduction of facial redness 3 hours 
after application was 16.3% (21 out of 129) for Mirvaso compared with 3.1% (4 out of 131) for 
placebo. Effects were maintained for 12 hours after application although the effects started to wear 
off after 6 hours. On day 29, 31.5% (40 out of 127) patients had reduction of facial redness 3 
hours after application with Mirvaso compared with a response of 10.9% (14 out of 128) for 
placebo. 
• 
In the second study, on day 1 the percentage or patients who had reduction of facial redness 3 
hours after application was 19.6% (29 out of 148 patients) for Mirvaso compared with 0 % (none 
out of 145 patients) for placebo. Effects were also maintained for 12 hours after application and 
started to wear off after 6 hours. On day 29, 25.4% (36 out of 142) of patients had reduction of 
facial redness 3 hours after application with Mirvaso compared with a response of 9.2 % (13 out of 
142) for placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Mirvaso? 
The most common side effects with Mirvaso (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people), which are 
usually mild to moderate in severity, are erythema (redness), pruritus (itching), flushing and a burning 
sensation of the skin. For the full list of side effects reported with Mirvaso, see the package leaflet. 
Mirvaso must not be used in children below 2 years of age or in patients receiving other medicines 
such as monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or certain antidepressants. Mirvaso should not be used in 
children or adolescents aged from 2 to 18 years. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Mirvaso approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Mirvaso’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP concluded 
that Mirvaso improves the facial redness in patients with rosacea. Regarding safety, the CHMP 
acknowledged that the safety profile is acceptable since most of the adverse events reported occur 
locally (on the skin) and are similar to those commonly observed with other rosacea medicines applied 
to the skin. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mirvaso? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Mirvaso is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
Mirvaso  
EMA/401/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
the package leaflet for Mirvaso, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Mirvaso 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mirvaso on 21 February 2014.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Mirvaso can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Mirvaso, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2014. 
Mirvaso  
EMA/401/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
