EMA/792667/2013 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Mirvaso 
(brimonidine tartrate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Mirvaso, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Mirvaso is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Mirvaso, which can be found on Mirvaso’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Mirvaso is a treatment for erythema associated with rosacea, one of the most common long-term skin 
conditions, which produces redness of the face, flushing, abnormal visible blood vessels and sometimes 
pimples or infected red lumps. There may be burning, stinging and swelling of the face. Rosacea can 
also affect other parts of the body. 
Rosacea affects between 1 and 20 out of 100 people in the European population, mainly between the 
ages of 30 and 60 years and is very rare in children. It affects both men and women but is more 
common in women. However, men tend to suffer complicated forms of the disease sometimes 
associated with facial disfigurement. It occurs mainly in people who are fair skinned. 
Although the condition is not life threatening, because it affects the appearance of the face, many 
patients sense that the disease affects their social life with an impact on quality of life and it may be 
associated with depression. 
The condition is often worsened by factors like sunlight, strong wind, alcohol, coffee, spicy food, 
exercise, stress and some cosmetics. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
The effect of Mirvaso gel applied once a day to affected parts of the face over a 4-week period has 
been studied in two very similar studies which compared Mirvaso with gel containing no active product 
("vehicle control"). The products were used without the doctor or patient knowing if they were using an 
active or non-active product (blinded study).  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In the first study, 129 patients were allocated to treatment with the active product and 131 to the non-
active product; in the second study 148 patients were allocated to the active and 145 to the non-active 
product. These were patients with moderate to severe rosacea, but without complicated forms of the 
disease. 
Treatment effect was measured by comparing responses to the active and non-active products using 
both the treating doctors' and the patients' rating of facial redness using graded assessment scales.  
Effects were assessed daily at several time points at the end of 4 weeks of treatment. Treatment 
success was defined as a 2 grade reduction in the grading scale score. Success rates were higher in 
patients treated with active product (between 25.4% (36 out of 142 patients, study 2) and 31.5% (40 
out of 127 patients, study 1) depending on time of day) than with inactive product (9.2% (13 out of 
142 patients, study 2), to 10.9% (14 out of 128 patients, study 1). The overall difference was 
statistically significant, i.e. highly likely to be a true difference rather than a chance finding. Patients 
treated with Mirvaso were between 2.95 and 3.75 times more likely to improve than patients treated 
with the non-active product. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
In the main and supporting studies, all patients were of American, mainly white origin with moderate 
to severe rosacea.  There is no evidence to suggest that the results would have been any different in 
white European patients. It is not known how effective the treatment would be in patients with 
complicated forms of rosacea. Although not studied, beneficial effects would be expected in patients 
with mild disease, although the benefits may not be so pronounced. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Accidental oral ingestion 
Sensitivity skin reactions to 
either the active product or to 
other components of the gel 
(Skin sensitisation to 
brimonidine or excipients) 
Accidental oral ingestion of 
brimonidine has been reported 
to occur with an eye drop 
version of the product. 
In the clinical studies of the gel, 
2 cases of accidental oral 
ingestion occurred in young 
children. Because this can lead 
to large amounts of the product 
reaching the blood stream, this 
can result in effects on the 
heart, the brain and on 
breathing. 
Skin reactions suggestive of 
sensitivity, either to brimonidine 
itself or to the other components 
of the gel, have been observed 
in less than 1 in 100 subjects 
exposed. These were reactions 
such as allergic contact 
dermatitis localised to the area 
of application. 
Avoidance of accidental 
exposure by appropriate 
packaging. The Mirvaso 
marketed product will have a 
child proof lock incorporated.  
Sensitivity reactions tend to be 
unpredictable, and so are not 
preventable.  However, the 
product should not be used by 
patients known to be sensitive 
to any of the product 
components. 
EMA/792667/2013  
Page 2/5 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Interference with how product works or reactions 
from product due to simultaneous use of other 
drugs, or interference with the effect of other 
products 
(Drug interactions) 
Severe allergic reactions affecting the body, to 
either the active substance or to other 
components of the gel 
(Systemic allergic reactions to brimonidine or 
excipients) 
The active substance, brimonidine, could 
theoretically interfere with the actions of a 
number of substances such as medicines that 
affect the brain (sedatives, anaesthetics), 
medicines that lower blood pressure, or certain 
types of antidepressants. However, these effects 
depend upon how much brimonidine enters the 
blood stream. Brimonidine applied as a gel to the 
skin does not enter the blood stream to a 
significant degree.  These theoretical interferences 
have not so far been seen with brimonidine gel. 
It is likely that brimonidine gel may be used in 
patients who are receiving other types of rosacea 
treatments (e.g. antibiotics, retinoid treatments), 
either applied to the skin or as tablets. 
Brimonidine has been used in patients taking 
these types of treatments - so far there have 
been no adverse consequences. 
A single patient has been reported (less than 1 in 
1000 patients treated) who suffered a severe 
form of allergic reaction (swelling of face with 
hives), although it is likely that this was caused 
by a substance other than the brimonidine gel. It 
is not known if hypersensitivity reactions could 
progress to more severe allergic reactions. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in pregnancy 
(Exposure during pregnancy) 
Use whilst breast feeding 
(Exposure during lactation) 
Use longer than one year 
Use in patients or for conditions or with doses not 
yet studied 
(Off-label use) 
Use of product with treatments with light used for 
rosacea 
(Use with laser or UV radiation) 
There is a limited amount of information from the 
use of brimonidine in pregnant women. Animal 
studies do not indicate that the product is 
harmful. 
It is not known if brimonidine enters breast milk 
and can be transferred to a breast-fed child.  
Brimonidine gel has been used by patients for up 
to about one year without any indication of 
specific risks associated with long-treatment 
durations.  
Rosacea is potentially a life-long condition and so 
treatment duration in excess of one year is likely. 
There is the possibility that Mirvaso could be used 
by patients for conditions other than rosacea that 
cause redness of the face (e.g. for acne), or that 
patients might use the cream several times during 
the day to enhance its effect. Although rosacea is 
rare in children, it is possible that teenagers may 
use the product for conditions other than rosacea. 
There is no information on the possible level of 
inappropriate use, or any special risks that might 
be associated with inappropriate use. 
There is limited information available to determine 
if Mirvaso can be effectively and safely used with 
treatments with light. Studies of the possibility of 
the skin being affected by light in conjunction with 
brimonidine (photosensitivity studies) do not 
EMA/792667/2013  
Page 3/5 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in patients who have significant additional 
diseases 
(Use in patients with intercurrent disease) 
indicate that any specific problems would be 
anticipated. 
The active substance, brimonidine, acts on blood 
vessels and could theoretically cause worsening of 
conditions which affect blood vessels.  
Additionally, it is not known if patients with 
decreased kidney or liver function associated with 
other diseases who use brimonidine might be at 
any increased risks from treatment. 
However, these effects depend upon how much 
brimonidine enters the blood stream. Brimonidine 
applied as a gel to the skin does not enter the 
blood stream to a significant degree. 
These theoretical possibilities have not so far been 
seen with brimonidine gel. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Mirvaso can be found on Mirvaso’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
RD.03.SPR 40174 
Phase III Efficacy 
and safety 
Double-blind, 
vehicle controlled, 
parallel group 
study 
RD.03.SPR 40191 
Phase III Efficacy 
and safety 
Double-blind, 
Objectives  
To demonstrate 
efficacy and to 
assess the safety 
of 
CD07805/47 gel 
0.5%, applied 
topically once 
daily for 29 days 
versus vehicle 
control, in 
subjects with 
moderate to 
severe facial 
erythema of 
rosacea. 
To demonstrate 
efficacy and to 
assess the safety 
of 
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Ongoing 
None. 
Confirmation of 
efficacy and 
safety. 
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
Final report due 
for completion:  
08 Apr-2014 
Planned 
None. 
Confirmation of 
efficacy and 
safety. 
Final report due 
for completion: 
17-Mar-2015 
EMA/792667/2013  
Page 4/5 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
vehicle controlled, 
parallel group 
study 
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) 
final results  
CD07805/47 gel 
0.5%, applied 
topically once 
daily for 29 days 
versus vehicle 
control, in 
subjects with 
moderate to 
severe  chronic 
persistent 
vascular facial 
erythema. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2014.  
EMA/792667/2013  
Page 5/5 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
