SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Mixtard. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Diabetes  mellitus  is  a  group  of  metabolic  diseases  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  resulting  from 
defects  in  insulin  secretion,  insulin  action,  or  both.  Acute,  life-threatening  consequences  of  diabetes 
are  hypoglycaemia,  and  hyperglycaemia  with  ketoacidosis  or  non-ketotic  hyperosmolar  syndrome. 
Long-term  complications  of  diabetes  include  retinopathy  with  potential  loss  of  vision,  nephropathy 
leading to renal failure, and peripheral neuropathy causing foot ulcers, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, 
and sexual dysfunction. The disease is also accompanied by an increased incidence of atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and cerebrovascular disease. 
Type  1  diabetes,  which  usually  is  of  childhood  or  adolescence  onset,  accounts  for  5  to  10%  of 
diagnosed diabetes; it is characterised by loss of insulin production due to destruction of pancreatic ß 
cells as a result of an autoimmune response or idiopathic causes. Patients with type 1 diabetes depend 
on exogenous insulin for survival. 
Type 2 diabetes, which usually is of adult onset, is by far the more common form of diabetes. In the 
Western  World,  it  constitutes  approximately  90%  of  all  cases  of  diabetes.  Type  2  diabetes  is 
characterised  by  impaired  insulin  secretion,  insulin  resistance,  increased  hepatic  glucose  output  and 
lipid  disorders.  Patients  with  type  2  diabetes  generally  do  not  require  insulin  treatment  for  survival, 
although  a  substantial  number  (20-30%)  of  patients  need  insulin  to  achieve  acceptable  metabolic 
control. 
Marketing  authorisation  for  this  human  insulin  has  been  obtained  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
diabetes  mellitus.  The  active  substance  of  Mixtard  is  insulin  human  manufactured  by  recombinant 
DNA technology in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.  
Mixtard  is  a  dual-acting,  biphasic  formulation  consisting  of  a  premix  of  soluble  fast-acting  insulin 
human and isophane long-acting insulin in the proportions: 
Mixtard 10: 
Mixtard 20: 
Mixtard 30: 
Mixtard 40: 
Mixtard 50: 
10% soluble and 90% isophane 
20% soluble and 80% isophane 
30% soluble and 70% isophane 
40% soluble and 60% isophane 
50% soluble and 50% isophane 
Mixtard  is  intended  for  marketing  in  dose  strengths  of  40  IU/ml  and  100  IU/ml  in  vials,  Penfill, 
InnoLet,  NovoLet  and  FlexPen  presentations.  Mixtard  is  presented  in  10  ml  vials,  3  ml  cartridges 
(Penfill) and in multidose pre-filled pens (InnoLet, NovoLet and FlexPen). Two strengths exist in vial 
presentations: 100 IU/ml and 40 IU/ml. Only one strength exists in the other presentations: 100 IU/ml. 
All 100 IU/ml presentations have identical compositions. 
The  Penfill  presentation  is  a  cartridge  that  is  designed  to  be  inserted  in  a  durable  device.  The 
cartridges should only be used with devices and needles that are compatible with the Penfill products. 
The InnoLet presentation is a multi-dose pre-filled pen that delivers a maximum of 50 units per dose in 
increments  of  1  unit.  The  device  is  equipped  with  an  end-of-content  mechanism  that  ensures  that  the 
adjusted dose does not exceed the remaining content of the 3 ml cartridge after a multiple use. The device 
is targeted for use by geriatric patients with impaired dexterity and/or vision. 
The NovoLet presentation is a multidose pre-filled pen delivering 2-78 units per dose in increments of 2 
units. 
The FlexPen presentation is also a multidose pre-filled pen delivering 1-60 units per dose in increments 
of 1 unit. For patients, the FlexPen device represents an improvement over the NovoLet device in terms of 
automatic zeroing and delivery of dosage in single unit increments.  
1/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The formulation, designed for dual action, is a premixed insulin product consisting of a mixture of fast 
acting insulin and long acting insulin (insulin formulated in a suspension where protamine and insulin 
are  brought  together  in  isophane  proportions  at  a  neutral  pH.  It  contains  insulin  human  (rDNA)  as 
active  ingredient  and  agents  for  functions  as  follows:  protamine  sulphate  (protracting  agent  -  forms 
isophane  crystals  with  the  insulin  in  the  formulation),  zinc  (crystal  formation),  glycerol  (isotonic), 
disodium phosphate dehydrate (buffer) and phenol and metacresol (preservatives). 
Mixtard  is  presented  in  vials,  cartridges  (Penfill)  and  in  multidose  pre-filled  pens  (Innolet, NovoLet 
and FlexPen). 
The 10 ml vial is a glass container with a laminated isoprene/brombutyl rubber stopper disc and snap-
off cap. The glass container is produced from type I Ph.Eur. colourless glass. 
The  Penfill  cartridges  consist  of  a  3  ml  type  I  Ph.Eur.,  colourless  glass  cartridge  sealed  with  a 
laminated isoprene/brombutyl rubber stopper and a brombutyl rubber plunger.  
Innolet, NovoLet and FlexPen are multidose disposable pens made of a plastic injector device fitted 
with 3 ml Penfill cartridges. 
Active substance 
The active substance of Mixtard complies with Ph.Eur. monograph 1999:838 with additional tests as 
follows: 
Identification by Amino acid composition 
Nitrogen content 
Total viable count (CFU/g) 
DNA content 
Methods of analysis developed by the applicant are fully described with relevant validations. 
Development Genetics 
Insulin human is produced using a genetically modified strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The strain 
carries  a  plasmid  which  codes  for  the  expression  of  a  single  amino  acid  chain  insulin  precursor 
attached to a pre-pro leader region of the yeast mating factor (MFα1) gene. 
The plasmid is constructed based on the yeast 2µ plasmid. The yeast transformant used to produce the 
insulin  precursor  is  a  transformant  of  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae  carrying  the  expression  plasmid 
described  above.  The  applicant  has  presented  the  complete  DNA  sequence  of  the  plasmid.  The 
sequencing presented is assembled from published sequences and in-house sequence determinations as 
relevant. The gene has also been fully characterised from isolated plasmids from long-term production 
scale fermentation and cell bank (Original Mother Culture (OMC)). 
Constructional  stability  has  been  investigated  in  production  strain,  prolonged  and  very  long  term 
fermentation and cell bank (OMC). 
Cell bank system 
The cell bank system consists of Original Mother Culture (OMC), New Mother Culture (NMC), MCB 
and  WCB.  Satisfactory  details  of  the  preparation  of  the  different  types  of  cell  banks  have  been 
provided and a clear description given of the numbering and origin of the various cell banks and their 
sublots. 
Production of active substance 
The encoded product of secretion during fermentation is a single chain insulin precursor consisting of 
the first 29 amino acid residues of the insulin B chain linked with three amino acids to the insulin A 
chain.  This  single  chain  precursor  is  converted  enzymatically  to  an  insulin  methyl  ester,  which  is 
subsequently hydrolysed to yield insulin human, consisting of two chains (A and B) linked together 
2/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
with  disulphide  bridges.  The  purification  process  employs  several  chromatography  and  precipitation 
steps  for  isolation  of  the  precursor,  the  intermediates,  and  the  active  substance  respectively.  This 
process  is  well  established  and  it  should  be  noted  that  insulin  human  has  been  manufactured by the 
applicant over a period of many years during which time a number of improvements have been made. 
Validation data have been provided for the fermentation, recovery and purification processes. In each 
case, critical parameters in these processes have been identified and investigated. 
Satisfactory  analytical  data  are  provided  for  10  recently  produced  batches  of  human  insulin 
demonstrating a high degree of consistency in the manufacturing process. 
Stability of active substance 
The  applicant  has  provided  results  of  testing  of  20  batches  from  the  ongoing  stability  programme. 
Testing parameters include dry substance, insulin polymer, insulin dimer, A21 desamido insulin, other 
related  substances  and  assay.  The  data  confirm  that  active  substance  is  stable  for  60  months  when 
stored at the recommended storage temperature. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients comply with Ph.Eur. specifications apart from metacresol which is USP standard. 
Product development and finished product 
Development pharmaceutics 
The current formulation represents an accumulation of experience the applicant has gained with a wide 
variety of insulin products over the years. The first biphasic protamine insulin formulation 30/70 was 
developed  based  on  the  applicant’s  experience  at  that  time  with  a  soluble  fast  acting  insulin  and  an 
insulin/protamine complex). The formulation was introduced in the early 1980’s and fine-tuned later 
to improve overall product physical stability and to rationalise manufacture such that there was only 
one crystalline formulation for all protamine insulin products manufactured by the applicant. 
Emphasis has been placed on correct insulin crystal size in the crystalline phase of the product. This is 
achieved  through  a  combination  of  optimised  zinc  and  protamine  sulphate  concentrations  in  the 
formulation and through a carefully defined and controlled manufacturing process. 
Sterilisation  of  the  finished  product  by  filtration  is  essential  given  the  heat  sensitivity  of  the  active 
ingredient. 
Manufacturing process 
Mixtard  consists  of  a  mixture  of  a  suspension  of  crystalline  human  protamine  insulin  and  dissolved 
insulin  human.  Crystalline  and  dissolved  fractions  are  prepared  separately  and  the  formulated  bulk 
made  by  sterile  filtration  of  the  dissolved  fraction  into  the  sterile  tank  containing  the  crystalline 
fraction. 
Filling  occurs  in  a  grade  A  zone  and  vials  and  cartridges  are  inspected  individually  by  manual  or 
automated inspection. Pen injector products are assembled thereafter. 
Formulae for the auxiliary solutions (HCl, NaOH and ZnCl2) and preservative solution are provided.  
Due to the nature of this application i.e. products marketed under MRP since 1988 and based on the 
extensive  experience  the  applicant  has  with  their  products  over  the  years,  no  new  validation  studies 
have been initiated for this application. An overview of the processes used together with a description 
of  the  critical  production  parameters  is  provided.  Summary  results  have  also  been  provided  for 
Mixtard products manufactured at various approved sites and in different batch sizes. Available data 
show a consistent, well-controlled manufacturing process. 
Mixtard complies with the requirements of the following PhEur-monographs: 
1999:0854 Insulin Preparations, Injectable 
1997:0832 Insulin Injection, Biphasic Isophane 
In addition to monograph tests the products are tested by in-house methods for percentage of dissolved 
insulin, identity and content of preservative and for dose accuracy (pre-filled pen products only). 
3/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
Full methodologies have been provided for all in-house methods. A complete justification of the tests 
employed has been provided. 
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  provided  for  3  recently  produced  batches  of  each  presentation.  All 
batches comply with their respective specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  reports  are  provided  covering  the  different strengths, presentations and  production sites for 
Mixtard.  
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability  indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability. These results support the shelf life stated in the SPC. 
Viral safety and TSE risk assessment 
A number of animal derived raw materials are used in the production of insulin human, rDNA. These 
are peptone, beef extract and pepticase which are used in the preparation and storage of cell banks, L-
threonine and trypsin- used in the purification process, and protamine sulphate used as excipient in the 
final  product.  L-threonine  is  sourced  from  avian  feathers  and  porcine  gelatine,  trypsin  from  porcine 
pancreas and protamine sulphate from salmon. 
Pepticase  falls  outside  the  scope  of  the  TSE  Guideline  as  it  is  derived  from  casein  from  milk  from 
healthy cows only and no other ruminant materials are used in its preparation. 
For  peptone  (CEP-2000-175)  and  beef  extract  (CEP-2000-181)  Certificates  of  Suitability  of  the 
EDQM have been submitted. 
The risk of transmission of TSE from Mixtard to human beings has been appropriately addressed in 
accordance  with  CPMP/CVMP  Note  for  Guidance  for  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy via medicinal products (EMEA/410/01). 
Viral safety issues have been addressed and compliance with relevant guidelines are considered to be 
met. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Satisfactory  evidence  is  provided  that  product  manufacture  is  well  controlled,  that  consistency  of 
production  is  achieved  and  that  a  stable  product  results.  The  requirements  of  the  relevant  directives 
and guidelines are met. The pharmaceutical portions of the SPC, package insert and product label are 
supported by the information provided in the dossier. Several minor quality issues will be addressed 
by the applicant on an ongoing (post-approval) basis. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Insulin  is  a  hormone  which  primarily  regulates  the  glucose  metabolism  in  the  human  body.  It  is 
normally synthesized  in the beta cells of the pancreas, induces storage of ingested food by allowing 
glucose to enter muscles and adipose tissue, promoting glycogen synthesis in all sensitive tissues and 
facilitating  fat  synthesis.  Insulin  inhibits  the  breakdown  of  fat  and  protein  in  adipose  tissue  and 
muscle. 
Reduced insulin levels permit breakdown of glycogen, fat and protein for energy production and for 
the  maintenance  of  blood  glucose  levels  between  food  intake.  Insulin  effects  are  counteracted  by 
different  hormones,  (growth  hormone,  epinephrine,  glucagon  and  cortisol),  which  play  a  part  in 
negating the anabolic effects of insulin during starvation, facilitating provision of energy reserves and 
maintaining blood glucose levels. 
Through  its  metabolic actions, insulin  lowers blood glucose  and is used in the treatment of  diabetes 
mellitus.  
The mixture between insulin human with a rapid-onset and the intermediate acting protamine-insulin 
human  facilitates  a  twice  daily  dosage  regimen.  Biphasic  human  insulin  (biphasic  insulin  human 
30/70) is a premixed suspension of insulin containing the rapid acting, insulin human (30%), and the 
4/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
 
long acting insulin human-protamine complex (70%). Insulin human is a synonym for human insulin 
obtained by recombinant DNA technique.  
The  preclinical  evaluation  of  the  present  product  is  based  on  the  documentation  for  the  active 
ingredients: insulin human and isophane insulin human, the protamine complex contained in Mixtard. 
The programme includes recent studies performed with the insulin analogue, insulin aspart. In several 
of  these  studies,  insulin  human  was  used  as  a  reference  substance.  In  addition,  other  recent  studies 
concerned the mixture of the insulin analogue insulin aspart and protamin-insulin aspart 30/70. Once 
again  in  several  of  these  studies,  Mixtard  30  (biphasic  insulin  human  30)  was  used  as  a  reference 
substance. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Primary pharmacology programme. 
The  programme  includes  studies  performed  in  the  eighties  demonstrating  the  similarity  between  insulin 
human  and  semi-synthetic  insulin  human,  later  studies  supplementing  above  studies  and  recent  studies 
where insulin human was used as a reference substance for insulin analogues.  
• 
In vitro studies  
Insulin  is  a hormone composed of two polypeptides  (two  protein chains named A and B chains  having 
respectively  30  and  21  amino-acids).  Two  disulfide  bonds  link  these  two  chains.  The  structure  of  the 
insulin  is  similar  of  those  of  several  other  hormones  or  growth-factors  (including  insulin-like  growth 
factors  IGF-1  and  IGF-2).  IGF-1  and  IGF-2  have  some  affinity  for  the  insulin  receptor,  however,  both 
growth factors have their own receptors. The insulin and IGFs receptors both belong to the tyrosine kinase 
family  receptors.  The  activation  of  the  receptors  is  obtained  when  the  endogenous  ligand  occupies  the 
receptor.  Once  activated  the  signal  transduction  produced  by  these  receptors,  which  mediates  the 
physiological  action  of  the  hormone,  starts  with  an  autophosphorylation  of  the  receptor.  The  in  vitro 
studies  explored  the  affinity  of  insulin  analogues  for  other  receptors  belonging  to  the  tyrosine  kinase 
family. 
The  receptor  binding  activity  of  insulin  human  was  studied  in  connection  with  the  pre-clinical 
development of the insulin aspart (see Table 1 below). 
Table 1: 
Determination of the receptor affinity of insulin human (rDNA). 
Affinity for Insulin Receptor  Affinity for IGF-1-Receptor 
=100% 
0.03% 
• 
In vivo studies  
The effect on blood glucose in diabetic rats after subcutaneous administration was studied in diabetic rats 
which received by a single subcutaneous injection either insulin human, semi-synthetic insulin or vehicle. 
The effect on blood glucose was measured by blood sampling. Insulin human (rDNA) and semi-synthetic 
insulin showed dose and time dependent antidiabetic effect. 
In  a  few  studies,  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human  was  used  as  reference  substance  in  order  to  show  the 
additional effect of dual-acting insulin aspart 30. The hypoglycaemic effect in the pig of SC injection of 
dual-acting insulin aspart 30 and Mixtard 30, insulin human was compared. 
In this study the blood glucose lowering effect of Mixtard 30 was confirmed. 
• 
Safety pharmacology programme. 
In  the  Irwin  test,  a  few  mice  showed  a  slight  reduction  in  exploratory  and  spontaneous  activity.  In  the 
Animex  test,  which  is  more  sensitive,  mice  showed  a  decrease  in  motor  activity  at  the  highest  dose  (5 
U/kg). Reduced performance in the rotarod test was also observed in mice at the highest dose (5 U/kg) in 
one study, but no effects were observed at 100 U/kg in a later study. The locomotion activity in rats were 
slightly reduced at 100 U/kg, which was the only dose tested.  
Newer studies support the original ones. 
5/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
 
The  time  from  disappearance  to  reappearance  of  the  righting  reflex  (sleeping  time)  induced  by 
pentobarbital in mice was prolonged after treatment with 5 U/kg. The same applies to hexobarbital after 
treatment with 100 U/kg; the effect was reversed with glucose administration. A dose of 100 U/kg after 
administration of ethanol significantly increased the mortality and sleeping time. No antagonistic effect on 
pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions in mice was observed at 100 U/kg, and this treatment did not act as 
a  pro-convulsant  either.  Insulin  human    did  not  show  any  inhibitory  effects  on  acetic  acid  induced 
writhing in mice at 100 U/kg (P-27), indicating absence of analgesic potential. The body temperature in 
mice  was  unaffected  by  100  U/kg  (P-28).  Neither  insulin  human  nor  semi-synthetic  insulin  human 
produced any “curarizing” effect on neuromuscular transmission after treatment of rats up to 5 U/kg IV. 
No  effects  attributed  to  treatment  were  observed  in  an  in-vitro  preparation  of  guinea-pig  ileum  and vas 
deferens. 
No effects on cardiovascular and respiratory system attributed to treatment were observed in cats and in 
pigs. The gastro-intestinal motility of mice was unaffected. A transient fall in diuresis was observed in rats, 
however  this  effect  was  reversed  after  SC  administration  of  glucose.  A  bromsulphtalein-test  showed  no 
indications  of  pathological  effects  to  liver  parenchyma  in  pigs.  Blood  platelets  of  human  Rich  Platelet 
Plasma were not affected after in vitro treatment with insulin human . 
Effects seen in the original and newer safety pharmacology studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single Dose Pharmacokinetics StudiesThe pharmacokinetic profile of biphasic insulin human, after a 
single doses was explored in several animals species (rats, dogs and pigs). 
The pharmacokinetics properties of fast-acting insulin human were investigated after a single dose IV and 
SC in the rat. In these studies insulin human showed rapid uptake and slower elimination after SC than IV 
administration.  Bioavailability  from  the  SC  injection  was  high.  These  experiments  have  all  shown  that 
insulin human has regular, predictable kinetics in the rat after SC injection of various high doses.  
Fast-acting insulin human was given to dogs in a single dose 0.05, 0.1, or 0.2 U/kg IV and 0.25, 0.5 or 1 
U/kg SC to three males and three female dogs in a cross-over experiment. Insulin human was completely 
absorbed from the SC injection site. 
A single dose pharmacokinetic study in the pig where fast-acting insulin human was administered IV and 
SC  showed  that  Tmax  equals  79  min  [Tmax    is  the  time  at  which  the  highest  drug  concentration  occurs 
following administration of an extravascular dose. Tmax is expressed in min or hr].  
Multiple Dose Pharmacokinetics Studies 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  biphasic  insulin  human  given  at  repeated doses was explored in  several 
animals species (rats, dogs and pigs). 
A  multiple  SC  dose  kinetics  study  was  performed  in  rats  and  compared  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
insulin  aspart  and  fast  acting  insulin  human.The  kinetics  after  multiple  doses  were  basically  similar  to 
those after single doses injected SC. 
The mean values of some of the basic pharmacokinetic parameters are summarised in Table 2 below. It 
should  be  noted  that  this  study  was  designed  to  show  equivalent  kinetics  between  two  different 
formulations of dual-acting insulin aspart. Thus the parameters of Mixtard do not reflect the actual kinetic 
profile due to the biphasic kinetics of the test substance.  
Some basic human pharmacokinetic parameters are shown in Table 2 below. It should be noted that the 
parameters derived from the method used in the pig pharmacokinetics/ pharmacodynamic study above are 
not directly comparable to the results obtained by the euglycaemic  clamp  technique used in the human 
tests. 
6/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 2 Pharmacokinetic parameters of dual-acting insulin human and insulin human 
Mixtard 30 
Fast acting insulin human 
Admini-
stration 
Endpoint 
SC 
IV 
t½ (min) 
Cmax (pM) 
Tmax (min) 
Cl (l·min/kg) 
Man 
031/UK 
(0.2 U/kg) 
449 
93.0 
110 
Pig 
NN970010 
Man 
022/UK 
Pig 
NN950475 
Dog 
NN960548 
Rat 
NN960550 
(0.15 U/kg) 
174 
361 
231 
(0.1 U/kg) 
122 
102 
145 
(0.125U/kg) 
121 
122 
99 
0.021 
(1 U/kg) 
57 
2871 
60 
0.048 
(6 U/kg) 
23 
18000 
15 
0.058 
As the majority of the insulin human preparation is of same composition as the semi-synthetic insulin 
human  preparations,  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  the  original  preclinical 
programme. Linearity concerning AUC/dose was confirmed in different species, suggesting that there 
was no insulin accumulation. 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetic studies were done during the 52 weeks repeated dose toxicity studies in the rat and the dog 
and the Segment II test (teratogenicity studies) in the pregnant rabbit. They demonstrated linearity of 
the plasma levels of insulin human with the dose, the Cmax, occurred 1-5 hours after administration of 
either  type  of  insulin.  The plasma levels and AUCs of insulin human remained directly related to dose 
throughout the 52 weeks of treatment and that the rate of elimination did not increase with time. 
Toxicology 
Some  experiments  where  Mixtard  30  was  used  as  reference  substance  for  the  testing  of  dual-acting 
insulin aspart have been performed. Some other studies confirmed the lack of local toxicity and tried 
to evaluate the possible immunogenicity of the product. 
• 
Single dose toxicity studies. 
Mice and Rats were given a single dose of insulin human subcutaneous at dosage up to 4000 U/kg. In 
higher dosage groups insulin human was compared to semi-synthetic insulin human. Apart from few 
sporadic  hypoglycaemic  reactions  on  the  day  of  dosing,  no  treatment  related  signs  were  seen.  No 
significant difference between insulin human and semi-synthetic insulin human was observed. 
• 
Repeated doses toxicity. 
The subacute toxicity was examined in rats and dogs during a 4 weeks SC study in Wistar Rats and a 13 
weeks SC study in Beagle Dogs.  
In  the  rat  the  highest  dose  of  200  IU/kg  caused  hypoglycaemic  deaths.  In  surviving  rats  only  a  few 
signs were seen. In samples taken approximately 20 hours after administration, higher dosage of both 
insulins lowered plasma concentration of protein. A slightly lowered urea and increased blood glucose 
were observed as well. These findings are in accordance with other studies on insulin (Andersen et al, 
1983 and Hansen et al, 1986). The observations in the dogs were attributed to the hypoglycaemic state 
of the animals and not due to toxic effect of insulin human. 
human was administrated subcutaneously for 1 year to Sprague Dawley Rats. At necropsy there was an 
increased  incidence  of  mammary  gland  cysts  and  mammary  tumours  were  found  at  microscopic 
examination.  The  incidence  of  total  number  of  mammary  tumours  as  well  as  fibroadenomas  and 
adenocarcinomas were, however, not significant from the control group. There were no other treatment-
related effects in any organ, including the pituitary. 
In the dog study, beagle dogs were given insulin human subcutaneous for 13 weeks. Both dogs given 1 
U/kg daily and 3 U/kg daily showed peripheral vasodilatation. Ocular discharge and quiet behaviour were 
seen in dogs at 3 U/kg daily only. Body weight and food consumption were slightly increased. All these 
7/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observations were attributed to the hypoglycaemic state of the animals and not due to any toxic effect of 
the drug. 
Beagle  dogs  were  given  insulin  human  1  U/kg  twice  daily  SC  for  12 months.  General  episodes  of 
hypoglycaemia and one dead animal, led to a change in the dosing regimen. Besides one case of abnormal 
weight gain, there were no other important effects of the treatments. 
• 
Genotoxicity. 
The genotoxic potential of insulin human was evaluated through a bacterial reverse mutation test in 4 
strains  of  Salmonella  typhimurium,  a  clastogenic  activity  test  in  cultured  human  lymphocytes,  a 
mutagenic activity test on the HGPRT-locus in chinese hamster V79 cells and a micronucleus test in 
bone marrow erythrocytes. In all the tests insulin human was found non-mutagenic.  
Insulin  human  was  included  as  reference  substance  in  a  gene  mutation  study  in  mouse  lymphoma 
L5178Y cells (TFT-resistance). Negative findings were obtained with no signs of cytotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity. 
MCF-7  human  breast  cancer  cells  were  incubated  with  different  concentrations  of  insulin  aspart, 
insulin human and an experimental insulin analogue. Dose response curves from seven studies were the 
same for insulin aspart and insulin human, whereas the experimental insulin analogue had at least 10-
times their mitogenic potential. 
In an exploratory 12-month test and in the formal 12-month toxicity study in the Sprague-Dawley rat the 
effects of chronic administration of insulin aspart and insulin human on mammary tissues in the rat were 
explored.  In  these  studies  some  animals  developed  neoplasms  of  mammary  tissue.  All  animals  in  all 
treatment groups showed hyperplasia of mammary glandular epithelial cells. In both tests most mammary 
gland  tumours  were  fibroadenomas  all  had  a  typical  histological  appearance.  The  small  number  of 
adenocarcinomas had remained local and had not metastasised. The pituitary glands appeared normal. 
A study exploring the effects of repeated subcutaneous injection of insulin aspart and insulin human for 52 
weeks in rats has been conducted. This study has been performed in Sprague-Dawley rats. A dose-related 
increase in palpable subcutaneous masses has been observed at 30 and 75 U/kg twice daily. A statistically 
significant  (p<0.01)  increased  incidence  of  female  animals  bearing  mammary  gland  tumours  at  75 
U/kg/bid were found. The increase was evident in benign/malign combined as well as in malign tumours 
alone. No evidence of mammary gland hyperplasia or of tumours was seen in the test up to 12 months in 
the dog. 
Particularly  under  certain  experimental  conditions  insulin  may  induce  mammary  tumours  in  the  female 
Sprague  Dawley  rat  (a  sensitive  species,  strain  and  sex)  probably  related  to  a  mitogenic  and  growth-
promoting action of insulin mediated by the insulin receptor. 
An increase in the number of benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been shown in Sprague 
Dawley rats. In one 12 month study, there was a statistically significant increase of female animals bearing 
benign and malign mammary gland tumours at the highest dose. There was no increase of mammary gland 
hyperplasia or tumours in the 12 month dog study. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity. 
Fertility  and  Embryo-Foetal  Development  studies  have  been  conducted  in  the  Sprague  Dawley  Rat. 
Fertility was not affected. Males showed slight reduction in the epididymal sperm count. Dams treated 
with  high  doses  (200  U/kg)  of  insulin  human  showed  pre-  and  post-implantation  loss,  and  a  specific 
pattern of anatomical abnormalities of the foetuses was seen. The findings are regarded as a consequence 
of the severe maternal hypoglycaemia. 
The  pre-  and  post-natal  development  of  Sprague  Dawley  rats  born  from  pregnant  females  exposed  to 
insulin human has been studied. Maternal hypoglycaemia with a few deaths and effects on weight gain and 
food consumption were observed in the dams. 
Newborn pups showed slightly increased weight gain, which had become normalised by weaning. There 
were a few other variations in F1 animals but no major effect was found. 
Embryo-foetal development of rabbits born from pregnant females exposed to insulin human has also been 
studied. The high doses of insulin led to increased food consumption and accelerated weight gain, which 
8/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
persisted to the end of the experiment. There was a dose-related reduction in plasma glucose. In the mid- 
and  low-doses  it  had  recovered  by  4h  after  the  first  dose.  Top-dose  group  (5  U/kg)  showed  embryonic 
deaths and related depression of litter size and weight. At 1.5 U/kg and above, foetuses showed skeletal 
abnormalities. These effects were considered to be due to the induced maternal hypoglycaemia. 
In Segments I/II study, fertility was not affected in rats given insulin human. Males had a slightly reduced 
epididymal sperm count. Pre- and post-implantation loss was increased and a proportion of foetuses had 
characteristic  abnormalities  attributed  to  reduction  of  maternal  blood  glucose.  In  an  embryo-foetal 
development study in rabbits, an increase in early embryonic deaths with associated decrease in litter size 
and  litter  weight  was  observed  at  10  U/kg.  A  dose-dependent  increase  in  foetuses  with  skeletal 
abnormalities was seen.  
During gestation, abortion and foetal death and malformations were seen, but only during severe maternal 
hypoglycaemia and are already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
• 
Local Tolerance. 
Due to the life-long administration of insulin, evaluation of the local irritancy is of particular importance.  
The  local  toxicity  after  subcutaneous  injection  has  been  studied  in  pigs.  Pigs  were  given  subcutaneous 
injections of different preparations including three dual-acting insulin aspart 30 formulations, Mixtard 30, 
long-acting protaphane recombinant insulin, three media preparations and 0.9% saline. It was shown that 
all insulin products and formulations caused identical changes including light to moderate subcutaneous 
mixed inflammatory cell infiltration. The response to Mixtard 30 and long-acting protaphane insulin was 
similar. The saline and all media preparations caused almost no change. 
A  test  for  local  irritation  in  rabbits  showed  that  there  were  no  differences  in  the  damages  caused  by 
isotonic saline solution and by insulin human. 
• 
Immunotoxicity studies. 
The immunogenicity of different dual-acting insulin aspart 30 formulations has been compared to several 
well-known insulin products including Mixtard 30.The findings do not indicate any special risk of Mixtard 
30 even after storage under severe conditions. The immunogenicity in this animal model is unfortunately a 
poor  predictor  of  antibody  occurrence  in  man.  The  ingredients  in  Mixtard  30  have  however  a  well-
established clinical use and no excessive reports on antibody formation have been received. 
Insulin antibodies, even in moderate and low amounts, may prevent rapid rise in free blood insulin, thereby 
leading  to  higher  postprandial  glucose  levels,  or  cause  increased  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  when  insulin  is 
released from circulating insulin antibody complexes. The purity of the injected insulin has been shown to 
be  of  crucial  importance  on  the  amount  of  insulin  antibody  formed.  Thus,  5-times  crystallised  porcine 
insulin induces more insulin antibodies than the same preparation containing mono component insulin.  
In addition, the immunogenicity of insulin human has been studied in Rabbits. Freund’s adjuvant and 20 U 
of respectively insulin human, semi-synthetic insulin human and 5 times crystallized porcine insulin were 
injected intramuscularly to groups of rabbits twice a week. Serum insulin binding was estimated until 97 
days.  No  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  immunogenicity  of  insulin  human  and  semi-
synthetic  insulin  human  was  found,  whereas  they  both  were  demonstrated  to  be  significantly  less 
immunogenic that 5-times crystallized porcine insulin. It was concluded, that recombinant human insulin 
fulfils the demand of low potential to induce insulin antibodies in accordance with other mono component 
insulins. 
There was no statistically significant difference between the immunogenicity in rabbits of recombinant and 
semi-synthetic  human  insulins.  These  insulins  were  found  to  be  significantly  less  immunogenic  than  5 
times crystallised pork insulin. The potential for human antibody production against insulin human is thus 
considered to be low. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment. 
Mixtard is considered readily degradable, hence does not suggest any environmental risk for clinical 
use.  The  containers  and  devices  in  which  it  is  supplied  are  appropriate  for  disposal  by  the  means 
normally employed for simple medical devices. 
9/23                                                                          EMEA 2004 
 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  main  purpose  in  the  original  studies  for  primary  and  secondary  pharmacodynamics  was  to 
demonstrate  the  similarity  between  the  new  insulin  human  and  marketed  semi-synthetic  variant.  Newer 
studies support the conclusion from the original ones that insulin human and semi-synthetic insulin human 
have  identical  blood  sugar  lowering  effect.  Effects  seen  in  the  original  and  newer  safety  pharmacology 
studies can all be related to hypoglycaemia. 
As  the  majority  of  the  insulin  human  preparation  is  of  same  composition  as  the  semi-synthetic  insulin 
human  preparations,  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  the  original  preclinical  programme. 
Linearity  concerning  AUC/dose  was  confirmed  in  different  species,  meaning  that  there  was  no  drug 
accumulation. 
The  toxic  effects  seen  in  the  single  dose  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  were  attributed  to  the 
hypoglycaemic activity and thus an exaggerated pharmacological effect caused by the high doses of the 
insulin. Increased weight, depressed activity, convulsions and death were some of these effects. 
No specific studies were conducted on toxicity of dual-acting insulin, but some experiments (local toxicity 
studies and an immunogenicity study) where Mixtard was used as a reference substance to the testing of 
dual-acting insulin aspart are reported. No differences in toxicity between the insulin products dual-acting 
insulin aspart 30 and Mixtard 30 were seen. 
The  noted  effects  on  embryos  and  foetuses  were  only  seen  at  severe  maternal  hypoglycaemia  and  are 
already known to occur in incorrectly treated diabetic women. 
All conducted genotoxicity studies were negative for mutagenic potential. An increase in the number of 
benign mammary adenomas and fibroadenomas has been shown in Sprague Dawley rats. It is concluded 
that  the  increased  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  seen  in  rats  is  probably  caused  by  mitogenic  and 
growth-promoting  action  via  the  insulin  receptor,  but  is  probably  also  related  to  the  fact  that  Sprague 
Dawley rats are especially sensitive and were given large doses. There was no increase of mammary gland 
hyperplasia or tumours in the 12 months dog study. 
Finally; a test for local irritation in rabbits showed that there were no differences in the damages caused by 
isotonic  saline  solution  and  by  insulin  human.  The  potential  for  human  antibody  production  against 
recombinant human insulin is thus considered to be low. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Diabetes  is  a  group  of  metabolic  disorders  characterised  by  hyperglycaemia  due  to  defects  in  insulin 
secretion and/or insulin action. The two most common forms of diabetes mellitus are type 1 and type 2 
diabetes.  Type  1  diabetes  is  characterised  by  an  absolute deficiency of insulin due to destruction of the 
pancreatic  β-cells.  Although  the  rate  of  β-cell  destruction  is  variable,  all  type  1  diabetic  patients  will 
eventually require exogenous insulin for survival. In contrast, type 2 diabetes is characterised by insulin 
resistance,  relative  impairment  of  insulin  secretion  and  increased  hepatic  glucose  output.  In  general, 
patients with type 2 diabetes do not require exogenous insulin for survival. Nevertheless, during the course 
of the disease, a large minority of these patients will be treated with exogenous insulin to correct persistent 
hyperglycaemia. 
The goal of insulin treatment is to mimic the physiologic pattern of insulin secretion, which under normal 
conditions  consist  of  a  basal  secretion  and  meal  related  short  peaks.  The  most  commonly  used  insulin 
regimen is the so-called basal-bolus regimen in which basal insulin requirements are provided by one or 
two injections of long-acting insulin and mealtime requirements are provided by meal related injections of 
fast-/rapid-acting insulin human/insulin analogues. Instead of separate injections of long-acting and fast-
acting  insulins,  the  two  insulin  preparations  may  be  mixed  (by  the  patient  or  as  ready-made  pre-mixed 
insulin)  before  injection.  It  is  generally  accepted  that  the  basal-bolus  regimen  offers  the  best  glycaemic 
control. However, many patients, especially type 2 diabetic patients who produce significant amounts of 
insulin themselves, may be adequately controlled on twice-daily injections of long-(intermediate) acting 
insulins or mixtures of fast-acting and long-(intermediate)acting insulins. Although this regimen may not 
offer optimal glycaemic control, patient compliance is generally  better for this simpler regimen than for 
the  multiple  injections  regimens.  Therefore,  for  some  patients,  the  twice-daily  regimen  may  be  an 
acceptable alternative to the basal-bolus regimens.  
10/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
Mixtard,  insulin  human  consists  of  a  suspension  of  fast-acting  insulin  human  and  long-acting  insulin 
human.  Mixtard,  insulin  human  can  be  administered  before  a  meal  providing  both  the  meal-related 
requirements of fast-acting insulin as well as the basal requirements in the post-absorptive phase. Clinical 
experience has demonstrated that in a considerable proportion of diabetic patients, adequate (although not 
optimal) glycaemic control can be obtained by twice daily injections of Mixtard, insulin human. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics in healthy subject 
The pharmacodynamic properties of Mixtard 30, insulin human  in healthy subjects were investigated in 3 
clinical trials (031/UK, 032/UK, 033/D) involving 75 subjects. The purpose of these trials was to compare 
the effects of single dose dual-acting insulin aspart 30/70 and single dose Mixtard 30, insulin human on 
24-hour  serum  glucose  profiles  (study  031/UK)  as  well  as  glucose  infusion  rates  during  euglycaemic 
clamp  (study  033/D).  All  three  studies  were  single  dose,  randomised,  double-blind  2  periods  crossover 
trials with a washout period of 4 to 28 days between each treatment. All studies involved healthy subjects 
from 21 to 41 years with glycosylated haemoglobin [HbA1c] ≤ 6.1%, fasting blood glucose [FBG] ≤ 6.0 
mmol and body mass index [BMI] ≤ 27 kg/m2. Studies 031/UK and 033/D involved only male subjects 
(24 in both studies) whereas study 032/UK involved both men and women (27 in total).  
Statistical  analyses of all efficacy  data (except tmin,  which was analysed by  Wilcoxon signed ranks test) 
were analysed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) after logarithmic transformation of data. 
The  study  031/UK  was  a  crossover  trial  in  which  fasting  test  subjects  received  a  single  subcutaneous 
injection  (in  the  abdominal  wall)  of  either  0.2  U/kg  of  dual-acting  insulin  aspart  30/70  or  0.2  U/kg  of 
Mixtard 30, insulin human. Serum glucose levels where monitored for 24 hours post injection. No food 
was allowed during this period. Based on the glucose profiles the following parameters were determined 
and used for comparison of the pharmacodynamic effects of dual-acting insulin aspart 30/70 and Mixtard 
30, insulin human: Cmin (minimal serum glucose concentration), tmin and AOC (area over the serum glucose 
concentration curve and below the baseline glucose level). These data demonstrate that the onset of action 
of Mixtard 30, insulin human is 30 minutes and that the peak action occurs approximately 3 hours after 
injection. The duration of action is difficult to estimate, but may be as long as 24 hours. 
In  study  033/D,  the  pharmacodynamic  response  to  a  single  dose  of  dual-acting  insulin  aspart  30/70  or 
Mixtard  30,  insulin  human  was  evaluated  during  a  euglycaemic  clamp.  In  order  to  suppress  the 
endogenous insulin secretion, each subject received a basal infusion of insulin throughout the study period. 
By intravenous infusion of glucose, venous blood glucose was clamped at 5 mmol/l. The glucose infusion 
rate necessary to maintain a constant blood glucose level (i.e. 5 mmol/l) was monitored and recorded for a 
period of 24 hours following a single subcutaneous injection of Mixtard 30, insulin human (0.3 U/kg). The 
results  of  the  study  are  summarised  in  Table  3  below.  The  maximal  glucose  infusion  rate  (denoted  by 
GIRmax) for Mixtard 30, insulin human is shown in Fig. 4. 
Table 3: Pharmacodynamic response – healthy subjects – Euglycaemic clamp trial 033/D 
Glucose 
Endpoint 
AUCGIR, 0-90 min (g/kg) 
AUCGIR,6-24h (g/kg) 
GIRmax (mg/min×kg) 
a (min) 
tGIRmax
Mixtard 30 
N 
23 
23 
23 
23 
mean 
0.39 
4.23 
11.2 
198.5 
(SD/Q1-Q3b) 
(0.18) 
(1.26) 
(2.0) 
(129.0-269.0) 
a.  tGIRmax is given as a median value followed by 1st and 3rd quartile 
b.  Ratios are presented for AUCgir and GIRmax; Differences between medians is presented for t GIRmax 
Figure 1: Mean glucose infusion rate profiles – Healthy subjects 033/D 
11/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics in diabetic patients 
The Study 046/NL/UK is a randomised double-blind crossover study in diabetic patients comparing 
the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of dual-acting insulin aspart 30/70 to Mixtard 
30, insulin human. Thirteen patients with type 2 diabetes (as defined by WHO) for at least 12 months 
(both females and males) were enrolled. Additional inclusion criteria included age, body mass index 
(< 39 kg/m2) and glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) <12%. Patients were randomised to receive 2 weeks 
of  treatment  with  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human.  The  product  was  administered  subcutaneously  (in  the 
anterior  abdominal  wall)  twice  daily  (immediately  before  breakfast  and  dinner)  at  dose  identical  to 
what  the  patient  had  used  previously.  At  the  end  of  each  2  weeks  treatment  phase,  24-hour  serum 
insulin  and  serum  glucose  profiles  (starting  at  dinner)  were  obtained  during  treatment  with  both 
insulins  and  ingestion  of  standardised  meals.  Patients  were  allowed  to  vary  their  insulin  dose 
according to their need. However, in the treatment phase, initial dose had to be identical to the dose 
used immediately before that treatment phase. Pharmacodynamic parameters included various serum 
glucose  profiles,  the  maximal  glucose  concentration  and  the  time  to  maximal  serum  glucose 
concentration  following  each  meal.  Statistical  analysis  was  performed  by  ANOVA  following 
logarithmic transformation of data. 
Table 4 : Pharmacodynamic response – Type 2 diabetic patients – Study 046/NL, UK 
Mixtard 30 
Parameter 
AVE (0-24h) 
After dinner 
 EXC(0-4h, dinner) (mmol/l×min) 
 Cmax (glu, dinner) (mmol/l) 
 tmax (glu, dinner) (min) 
After breakfast 
 EXC(0-4h, breakfast) (mmol/l⋅min) 
 Cmax (glu, breakfast)
 tmax (glu, breakfast)
After lunch 
 EXC(19-23h, lunch) (mmol/l×min) 
 Cmax (glu ,lunch)
 tmax (glu, lunch)
  (mmol/l) 
  (min) 
  (mmol/l) 
  (min) 
N 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 
mean 
10.6 
13.0  
15.0 
118 
23.6 
17.4 
133 
16.9 
14.9 
128 
SD 
2.8 
6.4 
3.4 
46 
5.5 
3.5 
31 
8.5 
3.5 
40 
The pharmacodynamic parameters are listed in Table 4.  
12/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the mode of action and pharmacodynamic effects of insulin are well known. Following 
binding to insulin receptors on muscle and fat cells, insulin facilitates uptake of glucose. The present 
pharmacodynamic studies demonstrate that Mixtard 30 has biphasic hypoglycaemic effect in healthy 
subjects:  a  fairly  rapid  pronounced  effect  followed  by  a  more  protracted  effect.  Onset  of  action  is 
approximately 30 minutes after injection. The maximum effect is reached 2 to 8 hours after injection 
and duration of action is at least 24 hours. Data presented also indicates that the different proportions 
of fast-acting  insulin human have the expected effect on the time action profile of Mixtard. Finally, 
uncontrolled data presented suggests that Mixtard has both immediate and protracted glucose-lowering 
effect in patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacodynamic  studies  (031/UK,  033/D  and  046/NL,  UK)  also  involved  collection  of 
pharmacokinetic  data.  In  all  3  studies  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  based  on  24-hour  insulin 
concentration profiles, were determined using standard methods.  
Table 5: Pharmacokinetics of Mixtard 30 - Healthy subjects - Singledose  
Parameter 
AUC(0-90 min) 
Cmax 
tmax 
AUC(6-24h) 
t½ (min) c 
(mU/l⋅h) 
(mU/l) 
(min) 
(mU/l⋅h) 
Triala 
031/UK 
033/Db 
031/UK 
033/Db 
031/UK 
033/Db 
031/UK 
033/Db 
031/UK 
Mixtard 30 
Mean or Median [95 % CI] 
12.5±3.2 
26.3±7.6 
15.5±3.7 
29.9±8.1 
110 (90-180) 
165 (120-225) 
71.3±12.1 
261±41 
449 (363-844) 
a All doses were administered s.c. into the abdominal wall 
031/UK N=23, dose=0.20 U/kg; 033/D, N=24, dose=0.30 U/kg. 
b euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp trial 
c t½ based on the period from 10-24 hours 
13/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic studies performed in healthy subjects 
• 
Absorption and bioavailability 
The  respective  absorption  of  single  dose  dual-acting  insulin  aspart  30/70  and  Mixtard  30,  insulin 
human was compared in studies 031/UK, 032/UK and 033/D. (In study 033/D subjects were given a 
higher dose of Mixtard 30, insulin human  than in 031/UK (0.3 U/kg versus 0.2 U/kg). In addition, as 
part of the clamp design, subjects in study 033/D also received a basal infusion of insulin (to suppress 
endogenous insulin secretion). Therefore the results from study 033/D are not directly comparable to 
the results from study 031/UK). 
Assessment  of  the  absorption  of  the  soluble  fraction  with  the  fast-acting  insulin  of  Mixtard  30  was 
based  on  Cmax,  tmax  and  AUCins,  0-90  min  (area  under  the  insulin  curve  from  0  to  90  minutes). 
Assessment  of  the  absorption  of  the  protamine  bound  fraction  (long-acting  insulin)  of  Mixtard  30, 
insulin  human    was  based  area  under  the  serum  insulin  curve  from  6  to  24  hours  (AUCins,  6-24h). 
Results are listed in Table 5. As previously mentioned the results from studies 031/UK and 033/D are 
not directly comparable but the pattern was identical.  
As it is known that the elimination half-life of intravenously injected insulin is fairly short, the time-
concentration  curves  are  primarily  determined  by  the  rate  of  absorption.  Thus,  the  presented  data 
indicates that Mixtard 30 has a biphasic absorption. The fraction with fast acting insulin is absorbed 
quickly with a tmax of 2 to 3 hours. The long acting, protamine bound fraction has a more prolonged 
absorption.  Study  011/US  demonstrates  that  for  Mixtard  50  Cmax  is  reached  slightly  faster  than  for 
Mixtard 30. In addition, AUC during the first 4 hours after injection is higher for Mixtard 50 than for 
Mixtard 30 (see Table 5) 
Table 5: Pharmacokinetic results in study 011/US 
Parameter 
AUC (0-4) 
AUC (4-8) 
AUC (8-12) 
AUC (0-12) 
Cmax 
Tmax (min) 
Mixtard 50 
N=(31) 
Mixtard 30 
(N=31) 
37433.5 (11177.1)* 
304½5.0 (9708.3) 
25668.4 (9061.0) 
11484.2 (6088.3) 
23517.1 (8481.2) 
12910.6 (5094.4) 
84435.8 (22503.2) 
76291.8 (21815.8) 
220.8 (57.3)* 
184.8 (84.5) 
178.5 (57.1) 
202.3 (108.7) 
* Significantly different between the 2 treatment groups at 0.05 level 
• 
Bioavailability 
No studies of absolute bioavailability could be performed as biphasic insulin human cannot be injected 
intravenously. 
• 
Distribution 
No  formal  distribution  studies  were  performed  with  biphasic  insulin  human.  Insulin  is  not  bound  to 
plasma proteins unless circulating antibodies directed against insulin are present.  
• 
Elimination 
Metabolism 
Metabolism  of  biphasic  insulin  human  was  not  formally  investigated.  Biphasic  insulin  human  is 
absorbed  as  standard  human  insulin.  From  previously  published  data  it  is  known  that  insulin  is 
catabolised by various proteases. The degradation products are not active. 
14/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
Excretion 
Mixtard, insulin human cannot be administered intravenously, thus clearance after IV administration 
could not be studied. As the half-life of intravenously injected fast-acting insulin human is relatively 
short,  the  terminal  half-life  of  insulin  human  following  subcutaneous  injection  of  Mixtard,  insulin 
human is a measure of the terminal absorption rather than the elimination of insulin from plasma per 
se. The terminal half-life (t½) of  insulin human following SC injection of Mixtard, insulin human was 
7 to 8 hours (Table 4), indicating a delayed absorption of the long-acting protamine bound fraction. 
• 
Pharmacokinetics in the target population 
Diabetic patients 
In  study  046/NL,  UK  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human  in  patients  with  type  2 
diabetes was assessed. Mixtard 30, insulin human was administered as subcutaneous injections twice 
daily  immediately  before  breakfast  and  dinner.  At  the  end  of  each  treatment  period  24-hour  serum 
insulin  concentration  profiles  were  obtained  during  continued  treatment  with  Mixtard  30,  insulin 
human and ingestion of standardised meals. The pharmacokinetic are listed in Table 5. 
Table:6: Pharmacokinetics in patients with type 2 diabetes – study 046/NL, UK. 
Parameter 
Mixtard 30 a 
AUC(0-2 h, dinner)  (mU/l⋅h)  114±66 
(mU/l⋅h)  102±55 
AUC0-2 h, 
breakfast) 
tmax (after dinner) 
(min) 
tmax (after  breakfast)  (min) 
Cmax (after dinner) 
(mU/l) 
Cmax (after breakfast) (mU/l) 
AUC0-24 h 
N=13, dose individualised 
a, total serum insulin;  
(mU/l⋅h)  1095±627 
124 (95-125) 
155 (126-182)
79±43 
81±45 
• 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Patients with impaired renal or hepatic function 
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  any  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal/hepatic  function.  It  is  known  that  the  liver,  the  kidneys  and  the  muscles  are  primary  sites  of 
insulin  degradation.  Renal  and  hepatic  impairment  may  reduce  insulin  degradation  and  thus  reduce 
insulin requirements.  
Pregnancy and lactation 
No studies have been performed. Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of complications during 
pregnancy and congenital malformations in the baby. Optimising metabolic control before and during 
pregnancy can reduce this risk. For most of the patients with type 2 diabetes and all patients with type 
1 diabetes, insulin is the only way of optimising metabolic control. Insulin can be administered during 
pregnancy and lactation. 
• 
Interaction studies. 
No  formal  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  There  are  no  literature  reports  of  direct 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  insulin  and  other  products.  The  products  which  interfere  with 
glucose metabolism through various mechanisms are well identified. 
15/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Conclusion on pharmacokinetic studies. 
As it is known that the elimination half-life of intravenously injected insulin is fairly short, the time-
concentration  curves  are  primarily  determined  by  the  rate  of  absorption.  Thus,  the  presented  data 
indicates that Mixtard 30, insulin human has a biphasic absorption. The soluble fraction is absorbed 
quickly  with  a tmax of  2 to 3 hours. The  protamine bound fraction has a  more  prolonged absorption. 
Study 011/US demonstrates that for Mixtard 50, insulin human Cmax is reached slightly faster than for 
Mixtard 30, insulin human.  
No  formal  distribution  studies  were  performed  with  Mixtard,  insulin  human.  It  is  established  that 
human insulin is not bound to plasma proteins unless circulating insulin antibodies are present. 
Metabolism  of  Mixtard,  insulin  human  was  not  formally  investigated  as  well..  From  previously 
published  data  it  is  known  that  human  insulin  is  degraded  by  various  proteases.  The  degradation 
products are not active. Presumably, these degradation products are broken down into amino acids. 
The terminal half-life (t½) Mixtard, insulin human following SC injection was 7 to 8 hours, indicating 
a delayed absorption of the protamine bound fraction. 
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  any  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  in  patients  with  impaired 
renal/hepatic  function.  It  is  known  that  the  liver,  the  kidneys  and  the  muscles  are  primary  sites  of 
insulin  degradation.  Renal  and  hepatic  impairment  may  reduce  insulin  degradation  and  thus  reduce 
insulin requirements. 
There are no formal studies of the effect of gender, age or race on the pharmacokinetics of Mixtard, 
insulin  human.  As  insulin  doses  are  titrated  individually,  the  lack  of  these  studies  is  considered 
acceptable. 
Clinical efficacy  
Main study (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials). 
Table 7: 
Phase III trials 
Studies 
Population 
Design 
Objectives 
038/D, UK 
(Number of patients) 
Type 1 and type 2 
diabetic patients. 
(294 patients were 
randomised in the study 
and 268 completed the 
trial). 
Multicentre parallel 
groups open-label 
randomised active 
controlled. 
Compare the efficacy 
of dual-acting insulin 
aspart 30/70 with 
Mixtard 30, insulin 
human on the 
glycaemic control 
evaluated by the 
glycosylated 
haemoglobin [HbA1c] 
after 12 weeks of 
treatment. 
The  documentation  for  the  clinical  efficacy  of  dual-acting  insulin  aspart (30/70)  consists  of  a single 
multinational  (multicentre  parallel  groups  open-label  randomised  active  controlled)  phase  III  trial 
[038/D, UK].  
1. 
Description of the study 
The objective was to compare the efficacy of dual-acting insulin aspart 30/70 with Mixtard 30, insulin 
human on the glycaemic control evaluated by the glycosylated haemoglobin [HbA1c] after 12 weeks of 
treatment.  
The  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  consisted  of  male  and  female  patients  with  type  1  or  2  diabetes 
mellitus  for  at  least  24  months.  All  subjects  had  been  on  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human    for  at  least 
12 months  prior  to  inclusion  into  the  trial.  Additional  inclusion  criteria  included  a  body  mass  index 
(denoted by BMI) ≤ 35.0 kg/m2, and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) ≤ 11.0 %. Patients with renal 
and hepatic insufficiency and patients with severe cardiac insufficiency were excluded from the study. 
16/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  either  dual-acting  insulin  aspart  30/70  or  Mixtard  30,  insulin 
human  administered  SC  twice  daily.  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human    was  injected  30  minutes  before 
breakfast and dinner. Dosing was individual and adjustments during the trials were allowed. Mixtard 
30, insulin human was injected in the anterior abdominal wall or the thigh according to local practice. 
2. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) measured after 12 weeks of 
treatment. Secondary parameters were derived from 8-point blood glucose (BG) profiles obtained after 
12  weeks  treatment:  These  parameters  were  firstly,  the  prandial  blood  glucose  increment  defined  as 
the mean difference between the blood glucose value 90 minutes after the meal and the blood glucose 
value just before the meal over three meals, the average of the 8 blood glucose values for each subject 
and finally the blood glucose range of the 8 blood glucose values for each subject.  
The assessment of the safety profile of the products was based on the collection of all adverse events 
and  the  measurement  of  different  parameters  (including  haematology,  biochemistry,  lipid  profile, 
antibodies directed against insulin, vital signs, physical examination and electrocardiogram). 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
All  efficacy  analyses  were  based  on  the  intention  to  treat  (ITT)  population  (described  in  ICH E9 as 
being  the  patients  who  were  followed-up,  assessed  and  the  data  analysed  irrespective  of  their 
compliance  to  the  planned  course  of  treatment).  For  the  primary  efficacy  parameter,  a  per-protocol 
(PP)  analysis  (defined  in  ICH  E9  as  an  analysis  performed  on  the  data  obtained  from  patients  who 
complied  sufficiently  with  the  protocol  to  ensure  that  the  data  obtained  with  these  patients reflected 
the  effects  of  treatment)  was  also  performed.  For  the  primary  endpoint  (HbA1c)  the  comparison 
between  biphasic  insulin  aspart  30/70  and  biphasic  insulin  human  30/70  was  based  on  a  non-
inferiority criterion. The non-inferiority threshold was set at an absolute difference of 0.6%. In other 
words, non-inferiority was claimed to be established if the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval 
estimating the difference between  the  two  treatments  [i.e. biphasic insulin aspart 30/70 and biphasic 
insulin  human  30/70]  was  less  than  0.6%.  Primary  and  secondary  endpoints  were  analysed  using 
different ANOVA models.  
RESULTS 
4  Study population 
A  total  of  294  patients  were  randomised  in  the  study  and  268  completed  the  trial.  Baseline 
demographic characteristics are listed in tables 8 and 9 respectively. Approximately one third of the 
patients had a type 1 diabetes (the others had type 2 diabetes). Average duration of disease was 15 and 
15.3 years, respectively. Baseline HbA1c was 8.24% in the Mixtard 30, insulin human group. 
Table 8: Patients – Study 038/D, UK 
Randomized 
Exposed 
Withdrawals in Treatment Period 
Adverse Event 
Ineffective Therapy 
Non-compliance 
Other 
Total 
Completed trial 
Efficacy Populations 
Intention to treat 
Per-Protocol 
Mixtard 30 
151 
151 (100%) 
3 (2.0%) 
3 (2.0%) 
3 (2.0%) 
9 (6.0%) 
142 (94%) 
145 (96%) 
136 (90%) 
17/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Baseline demographic characteristics – Study 038/D, UK 
Characteristic 
Number of subjects exposed 
Age (years) Mean (SD) 
BMI (kg/m/m)Mean (SD) 
Sex (males/females) 
Race (Caucas/Black/Other) 
Smoker (yes/no) 
Mixtard 30 
151 
58.1(12.9) 
27.3 (3.7) 
53%/47% 
99%/<1%/<1% 
19%/81% 
5. Efficacy results 
The  data  concerning  the  primary  efficacy  parameter  (HbA1c)  were  analysed  by  ANOVA.  After 
adjustment for baseline HbA1c and for centre, the level of HbA1c measured at 12 weeks was 8.15% in 
Mixtard 30, insulin human treated patients (ITT analysis).  
Table 10: Efficacy results for study 038/D, UK 
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
Mixtard 30 
N 
Mean  (SEM)  
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
143 
8.15 
(0.06) 
 HbA1c(%) 
 Prandial 
 BG Increment(mmol/l) 
 BG Range(mmol/l) 
 BG Average(mmol/l) 
 Total Biphasic 
 Insulin Dose (U/kg) 
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
 All adjusted for baseline value and centre, (ITT population 
(0.19) 
(0.29) 
(0.19) 
2.34 
8.06 
9.12 
141 
141 
141 
(0.01) 
0.62 
145 
The  statistical  analysis  of  the  results  concerning  HbA1c  (using  an  analysis  of  variance  –  ANOVA) 
showed that, with regard to  treatment effect, there was no significant difference between type 1 and 
type  2  diabetic  patients.  Demographic  and  prognostic  variables  had  a  significant  effect  on  HbA1c 
levels at 12 weeks but there was no treatment interaction. ANOVA analysis with adjustment for rate of 
hypoglycaemic  events  was  in  agreement  with  the  results  of  the  primary  analysis.  No  statistically 
significant treatment interaction was observed.  
The  efficacy  of  Mixtard,  insulin  human  has  been  assessed  with  the  following  secondary  endpoints: 
Mean  8-point  blood  glucose  profiles  at  baseline  and  after  12  weeks  of  treatment  with  Mixtard  30, 
insulin human. The results are shown in Figure 2. An analysis (ANOVA) on the measurements of the 
blood pressure measurements at 12 weeks is shown in Table 11. 
Mean 8 point blood glucose profiles at baseline and after 12 weeks – Study 038/D, 
Mean Eight-point BG profiles,
at Baseline and 12 Weeks
Figure 2: 
UK 
13
12
)
l
/
11
l
o
m
m
(
10
e
s
o
c
u
l
g
d
o
o
B
l
 9
 8
 7
 6
 5
BB
B90
BL
L90
BD
D90
BE
2 AM
Time
BHI 30 Bl
BHI 30 Week 12
Note: Bl = Baseline
ANA/DCD/038/D-UK/15AUG02/fig6_bhi.sas/fig6_bhi.cgm
18/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB = before breakfast, B90 = 90 min after breakfast, 
BL = before lunch, L90 = 90 min after lunch, 
BD = before dinner, D90 = 90 min after dinner, 
BE = bedtime, and 2 AM = 2 a.m. 
Table 11: 
at 8 different periods after 12 weeks – study 038/D, UK 
Results of the statistical analysis (ANOVA) performed blood glucose levels taken 
Time of Day 
Before breakfast 
Breakfast + 90 min. 
Before lunch 
Lunch + 90 min. 
Before dinner 
Dinner + 90 min. 
Bedtime 
2 am 
N 
143 
142 
143 
142 
143 
142 
142 
135 
Mixtard 30 
Mean 
8.24 
11.4 
7.57 
9.97 
8.72 
10.2 
9.10 
8.12 
(SEM) 
(0.27) 
(0.36) 
(0.27) 
(0.27) 
(0.29) 
(0.32) 
(0.30) 
(0.25) 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
A number of different insulin regimens have been proposed for treatment of diabetes. It is generally 
accepted that the so-called basal-bolus insulin regime (one or two injections of long-acting isophane 
insulin covering basal insulin requirements in combination with three injections of fast-acting insulin 
to cover meal-related insulin requirements) generally yields the best glycaemic control in diabetes (in 
certain subgroups of patients even better glycaemic control can be obtained by administering insulin 
as a continuous subcutaneous infusion in combination with subcutaneous boluses at meals). However 
a  number  of  patients,  especially  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  can  be  adequately  regulated  by  twice 
daily injections of long-acting insulin with or without concomitant injection of fast-acting insulin. For 
these patients ready-mixed long-acting insulin and fast-acting insulin such as Mixtard is a convenient 
alternative.  The  present  data  indicates  that  in  certain  type  1  and  type  2  diabetic  patients  previously 
having a favourable response to twice daily biphasic insulin human, acceptable glycaemic control can 
be maintained by twice daily injections of Mixtard. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The pharmacodynamic properties of Mixtard 30, human insulin in healthy subjects were investigated in 3 
clinical trials (031/UK, 032/UK, 033/D) involving 75 subjects. A total of 294 patients were randomised 
and 268 completed the multinational phase III trial [038/D, UK]. 
An important marketing experience with human insulins has been gathered since human insulins have 
been marketed for almost ten years. (see paragraph post-marketing experience below). 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
In the single dose trial in fasting subjects (study 031/UK and 032/UK), 40% of all subjects exposed to 
Mixtard 30, insulin human reported at least one adverse reaction. The majority of the adverse reactions 
were mild and related to hypoglycaemia. The high frequency of reactions in study 031/UK compared 
to  the  study  033/D  was  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  both  studies  031/UK  and  032/UK  involved 
prolonged fasting without glucose infusion whereas in study 033/D glucose was infused to maintain 
euglycaemia.  
In  the  phase  II  trial  7  patients  out  of  13  reported  at  least  one  reaction  while  on  Mixtard  30,  insulin 
human.  
In the phase III trial, amongst  the  Mixtard 30,  insulin human treated  patients 75 patients out of 151 
reported 174 adverse reactions. Table 12 summarises the AEs reported in study 038/D/UK. 
19/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: 
Adverse events reported in study 038/D/UK 
Number of subjects exposed 
All Adverse Events 
Trial product relation: 
Probable 
Possible 
Unlikely 
Unknown 
Severity: 
Mild adverse events 
Moderate adverse events 
Severe adverse events 
SOCs in which AEs were reported in >5% of subjects exposed: 
Centr & periph nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Respiratory system disorders 
Upper resp tract infection 
Pharyngitis 
Gastro-intestinal system disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Body as a whole – general disorders 
Influenza-like symptoms 
Musculo-skeletal system disorders 
Skin and appendages disorders 
Resistance mechanism disorders 
N = Number of subjects with event 
% = Proportion of exposed subjects having the event 
E = Number of adverse events 
SOC = System Organ Class 
Healthy Subjects 
Mixtard 
% 
E 
(50%) 
(1%) 
(4%) 
(46%) 
(5%) 
(38%) 
(21%) 
(4%) 
(15%) 
(9%) 
(15%) 
(5%) 
(3%) 
(16%) 
(3%) 
(7%) 
(3%) 
(5%) 
(5%) 
(2%) 
174 
5 
8 
141 
20 
115 
52 
7 
34 
24 
33 
8 
5 
31 
5 
12 
5 
9 
8 
3 
N 
151 
75 
2 
6 
69 
7 
58 
32 
6 
22 
14 
23 
7 
5 
24 
5 
10 
5 
8 
7 
3 
The majority of the reported events were mild to moderate in severity and considered unlikely to be 
related to treatment.  
Serious adverse reactions 
An  adverse  reaction  (or  event)  is  considered  serious  when  at  any  dose  it  results  in  death,  requires 
inpatient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant 
disability/incapacity or is life-threatening. No such serious adverse reactions were reported in phase I 
and  II  trials. In  the  Mixtard 30, insulin human treated group, 8 patients reported a total of 9 serious 
experiences (hypoglycaemia (twice in the same patient), urinary tract infection, bundle branch block, 
cranial  nerve  lesion,  pancreatic  adenocarcinoma,  neuropathy,  uterine  carcinoma,  angina  pectoris).  In 
all  of  the  cases,  causal  association  with  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human  treatment  was  considered  to  be 
unlikely related to the product. 
No deaths were reported in Mixtard 30, insulin human treated patients. 
Among  all  subjects  exposed  to  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human,  three  cancers  were  reported  (pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma, uterine carcinoma, renal carcinoma). In all of the cases, causal relation to treatment 
was considered unlikely. 
20/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the phase I and II trials, three patients were withdrawn due to the occurrence of an adverse reaction. 
In the phase III trial, three subjects in the Mixtard 30, insulin human group were withdrawn due to a 
reaction  to  the  treatment.  The  reactions  leading  to  withdrawal  were  abdominal  pain,  nausea,  pain  in 
one patient and rash and neuropathy in the two other patients. 
Hypoglycaemic episodes 
Major  hypoglycaemic  events  were  defined  as  hypoglycaemic  events  with  severely  impaired 
consciousness that require either third party assistance (Major type A) or intervention with IV glucose 
or  glucagon  (Major  type  B).  Episodes  with  symptoms  of  hypoglycaemia  (actual  blood  glucose 
measurement  not  required),  which  did  not fulfil the definition of major hypoglycaemic events, were 
classified as minor hypoglycaemic events. 
• 
Major hypoglycaemic episodes 
Seventeen patients treated with Mixtard 30, insulin human reported a total of 36 major hypoglycaemic 
events (28 type A and 8 type B). 
• 
Minor hypoglycaemic episodes 
Eighty six patients in the Mixtard 30, insulin human group reported 361 minor hypoglycaemic events. 
The diurnal distribution of minor hypoglycaemic events is depicted in Figure 3. 
Figure 3: 
Rate of minor hypoglycaemic episodes during the day 
Rate of Minor Hypoglycaemic Episodes, Time of Day
r
a
e
Y
t
c
e
j
b
u
S
/
s
e
d
o
s
i
p
E
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
BHI 30
0-2
2-4
4-6
6-8
8-10 10-12 12-14 14-16 16-18 18-20 20-22 22-24
N indicates number of subjects with major episode(s) in each Time interval
E indicates number of major episodes in each Time interval
66   subjects on BHI 30 treatment had no minor episodes.
ANA/DCD/038/D-UK/15AUG02/fmintod.sas/fig7_bhi.cgm
Insulin antibodies 
Levels  of  insulin  antibodies  specific  to  human  insulin  remained  unchanged  throughout  the  12-week 
treatment period.. 
Increase  in  cross-reactive  antibody  levels  did  not  influence  change  in  glycosylated  haemoglobin 
(HbA1c) nor did it correlate with dose of insulin, indicating that the increase in levels of cross-reactive 
insulin antibodies did not have a negative effect on efficacy. The increase in antibody levels did not 
result  in  any  adverse  events  (including  allergic  reactions)  that  could  be  specifically  linked  to  the 
antibody.  Two  cases  of  potentially  hypersensitivity  reactions  with  probable  or  possible  relation  to 
treatment were reported (the two patients treated with biphasic insulin human 30/70 experienced a rash 
and an injection site reaction). 
Laboratory findings 
Thirteen  laboratory  test  abnormalities  (five  in  the  Mixtard  30,  insulin  human  group)  were  reported. 
None  of  these  were  considered  clinically  relevant  and  primarily  involved  small  increases  in  serum 
triglycerides or serum cholesterol levels.  
21/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Post-marketing experience 
An  extensive  post-marketing  experience  (more  than  31  million  patient  years  of  exposure)  has  been 
gathered  with  human  insulin  since  1988  when  the  first  genetically  engineered  human  insulin  was 
marketed. Two periodic safety update reports (PSURs) covering the period from March 1993 to end of 
June  2000  have  been  assessed  and  no  new  concern  has  been  raised  following  assessment  of 
postmarketing experience. 
Since the report from Teuscher and Berger (Hypoglycaemia unawareness in diabetics transferred from 
beef/porcine  insulin  to  human  insulin.  Lancet  1987,  ii.382-5)  there  has  been  focus  on  diminished 
awareness of hypoglycaemia after changing from animal insulin to human insulin. A review of clinical 
and epidemiological studies prepared by the applicant could not support this hypothesis, neither could 
an update of this paper including literature research up to May 1997. 
The  most  common  reactions  were  hyper-  and  hypoglycaemia,  injection  site  reaction  and  pain, 
therapeutic response decreased, allergic reaction and rash or pruritus. 
A total of 29 serious adverse reaction reports associated with fast-acting administration were classified 
as  serious  unlisted.  Of  these  a  total  of  three  cases  of  toxic  epidermal  necrolysis/Stevens  Johnson 
syndrome  have  been  reported.  As  of  30  August  2000,  a  total  of  6  cases  of  epidermal 
necrolysis/Stevens  Johnson  syndrome/erythema  multiforme  have  been  reported  in  association  with 
insulin  human.  In  5  of  these  cases  concomitant  medication  provided  a  more  likely  explanation  than 
insulin human . 
In  the  last  PSUR  (1999-2000)  concerning  fast-acting  insulin,  the  Company  received  20  reports  of 
impaired  liver  function  (9  of  these  being  serious).  All  these  cases  occurred  in  Japan.  No  reports  on 
impaired liver function were received from other countries. Such reports have already been published 
(especially increased liver enzymes in patients with non-insulin dependant diabetes mellitus) and they 
are  generally  associated  with  overweight.  According  to  evidence  from  three  studies  liver  enzyme 
increases  are  most  likely  related  to  diabetes  mellitus  non  insulin-dependent/treatment  with  oral 
antidiabetic agents but not to insulin. Many of the reports involved semisynthetic, - but not genetically 
engineered insulin. The hypothesis of an idiosyncratic reaction was ruled out by the Company since no 
other  signs  of  hypersensitivity  were  observed  and  no  eosinophile  granulocytes  were  found  in  the 
biopsies.  
During the reporting period, two changes have been made in the summary of product characteristics 
for  safety reasons:  a more detailed description of the symptoms of hypo- and hyperglycaemia and a 
more  detailed  description  of  possible  generalised  hypersensitivity  reactions.  Apart  from  these 
amendments, no regulatory or manufacturer actions have been taken for safety reasons. 
Based on the review of the safety data from the extensive post marketing experience, no new safety 
issue to be included in the product information was identified. The most frequent adverse reactions are 
hypo- or hyperglycaemia. The safety profile of Mixtard is well characterised.  
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Viral  Safety  and  Batch  to  Batch  consistency  have  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No  new  specific  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  laboratory  animals  have  been  conducted  for  this 
application. Effects seen in  the  original and  newer safety pharmacology studies can all be related to 
hypoglycaemia.  An  increase  in  the  number  of  benign  mammary  adenomas  and  fibroadenomas  has 
been  shown  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats.  In  one  12  months  study,  there  was  a  statistically  significant 
22/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
increase of female animals bearing benign and malign mammary gland tumours at the highest dose. It 
is  concluded  that  the  increased  incidence  of  mammary  tumours  seen  in  rats  is  probably  caused  by 
mitogenic and growth-promoting action via the insulin receptor, but is probably also related to the fact 
that Sprague Dawley rats are especially sensitive and were given large doses. There was no increase of 
mammary gland hyperplasia or tumours in the 12 month dog study. The newer studies conducted since 
the original marketing authorisation for insulin human do not give reason for new safety concerns. 
Efficacy 
A number of different insulin regimens have been proposed for treatment of diabetes. It is generally 
accepted  that  the  so-called  basal-bolus  insulin  regime  (one  or  two  injections  of  long-acting  insulin 
covering basal insulin requirements in combination with three injections of fast-acting insulin to cover 
meal-related insulin requirements) generally yields the best glycaemic control in  diabetes (in certain 
subgroups  of  patients  even  better  glycaemic  control  can  be  obtained  by  administering  insulin  as  a 
continuous  subcutaneous  infusion  in  combination  with  subcutaneous  boluses  at  meals).  However  a 
number of patients, especially patients with type 2 diabetes can be adequately regulated by twice daily 
injections of long-acting insulin with or without concomitant injection of fast-acting insulin. For these 
patients  ready-mixed  long-acting  insulin  and  fast-acting  insulin  such  as  Mixtard  is  a  convenient 
alternative.  The  present  data  indicates  that  in  certain  type  1  and  type  2  diabetic  patients  previously 
having a favourable response to twice daily biphasic insulin human, acceptable glycaemic control can 
be maintained by twice daily injections of Mixtard. 
Safety 
Based on the review of the safety data from the vast post marketing experience, no new safety issues 
were  revealed  that  should  be  included  in  the  present  summary  of  product  characteristics.  The  most 
frequent  adverse  reactions  are  hypo-  or  hyperglycaemia.  The  safety  profile  of  Mixtard  is  well-
described and acceptable. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the submitted documentation on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of Mixtard, it 
is considered adequately demonstrated that Mixtard has the proposed dual action. Based on the clinical 
data as well as the well-established use of -Mixtard, insulin human, the efficacy and safety of Mixtard 
is considered adequately demonstrated.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Mixtard in the treatment of diabetes mellitus and the initial stabilisation 
of diabetes is favourable. 
23/23                                                                         EMEA 2004 
 
 
