EMA/572586/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000428 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mixtard 
human insulin  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mixtard. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Mixtard. 
What is Mixtard? 
Mixtard is a suspension for injection that contains the active substance human insulin. It is available as 
vials, cartridges (Penfill) or pre-filled pens (InnoLet or FlexPen). Mixtard contains both fast-acting 
(soluble) and long-acting (isophane) insulin: 
•  Mixtard 30: soluble insulin 30% and isophane insulin 70%; 
•  Mixtard 40: soluble insulin 40% and isophane insulin 60%; 
•  Mixtard 50: soluble insulin 50% and isophane insulin 50%. 
What is Mixtard used for? 
Mixtard is used to treat diabetes.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Mixtard used? 
Mixtard is given by injection under the skin, in the thigh, the abdominal wall (at the front of the waist), 
the gluteal region (buttocks) or the deltoid region (shoulder). The injection site should be changed for 
each injection. The patient's blood glucose (sugar) should be tested regularly to find the lowest 
effective dose. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The usual dose is between 0.3 and 1.0 international units (IU) per kilogram body weight per day. 
Mixtard is given 30 minutes before a meal. It is usually given once or twice a day when a rapid initial 
effect together with a more long-lasting effect is needed. 
How does Mixtard work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the blood glucose or 
when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Mixtard is a replacement insulin which is very similar 
to the insulin made by the pancreas. 
The active substance in Mixtard, human insulin, is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant 
technology’: the insulin is made by a yeast cells into which a gene (DNA) has been introduced, which 
makes them able to produce insulin. Mixtard contains insulin in two forms: a soluble form, which acts 
quickly (within 30 minutes of injection) and an ‘isophane’, form which is absorbed much more slowly 
during the day. This gives Mixtard a longer duration of action. The replacement insulin acts in same 
way as naturally produced insulin and helps glucose enter cells from the blood. By controlling the blood 
glucose, the symptoms and complications of diabetes are reduced. 
How has Mixtard been studied? 
Mixtard has been studied in a total of 294 patients with type 1 diabetes, when the pancreas cannot 
produce insulin, and type 2 diabetes, when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. About one-
third of the patients had type 1 diabetes and the remainder had type 2 diabetes. The study compared 
Mixtard 30 to a similar mix, but made up using an insulin analogue (insulin aspart). The study 
measured the level of glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) after 12 weeks, which is the percentage of 
haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached. HbA1c gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Mixtard shown during the studies? 
Mixtard led to a decrease in the level of HbA1c, indicating that blood glucose levels had been controlled 
to a similar level to that seen with other human insulin. Mixtard was effective for both type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes. 
What is the risk associated with Mixtard? 
The most common side effect with Mixtard (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia (low 
blood glucose levels). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Mixtard been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Mixtard’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mixtard? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Mixtard is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
Mixtard  
EMA/572586/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
the package leaflet for Mixtard, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Mixtard 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mixtard on 7 October 2002.  
The full EPAR for Mixtard can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Mixtard, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2013.  
Mixtard  
EMA/572586/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
