ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT    
Modigraf 0.2 mg granules for oral suspension 
Modigraf 1 mg granules for oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Modigraf 0.2 mg granules for oral suspension 
Each sachet contains 0.2 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect:  
Each sachet contains 94.7 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
Modigraf 1 mg granules for oral suspension 
Each sachet contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect:  
Each sachet contains 473 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Granules for oral suspension.  
White granules.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1 
Therapeutic indications  
Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult and paediatric, kidney, liver or heart allograft recipients. 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult and paediatric patients. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
This medicinal product should only be prescribed, and changes in immunosuppressive therapy 
initiated, by physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and the management of transplant 
patients. Modigraf is a granular formulation of tacrolimus, for twice-a-day administration. Modigraf 
therapy requires careful monitoring by adequately qualified and equipped personnel. 
Posology  
The recommended initial doses presented below are intended to act solely as a guideline. Modigraf is 
routinely administered in conjunction with other immunosuppressive agents in the initial 
post-operative period. The dose may vary depending upon the immunosuppressive regimen chosen. 
Modigraf dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
patient individually aided by blood level monitoring (see below under “Therapeutic drug monitoring”). 
If clinical signs of rejection are apparent, alteration of the immunosuppressive regimen should be 
considered.  
Careful and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus trough levels is recommended in the first 2 weeks 
post-transplant to ensure adequate exposure to the active substance in the immediate post-transplant 
period. As tacrolimus is a substance with low clearance, it may take several days after adjustments to 
the Modigraf dose regimen before steady state is achieved (see below under “Therapeutic drug 
monitoring” and section 5.2).  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modigraf should not be switched with the prolonged-release capsules (Advagraf) as a clinically 
relevant difference in bioavailability between the two formulations cannot be excluded. In general, 
inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised switching of immediate- or prolonged-release formulations 
of tacrolimus is unsafe. This can lead to graft rejection or increased incidence of undesirable effects, 
including under- or overimmunosuppression, due to clinically relevant differences in systemic 
exposure to tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a single formulation of tacrolimus with the 
corresponding dosing regimen; alterations in formulation or regimen should only take place under the 
close supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Following conversion to any 
alternative formulation, therapeutic drug monitoring must be performed and dose adjustments made to 
ensure that systemic exposure to tacrolimus is maintained. 
Prophylaxis of kidney transplant rejection  
Adults  
Oral Modigraf therapy should commence at 0.20 - 0.30 mg/kg/day administered as 2 divided doses 
(e.g. morning and evening). Administration should commence within 24 hours after the completion of 
surgery.  
If the dose cannot be administered orally as a result of the clinical condition of the patient, intravenous 
therapy of 0.05 - 0.10 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) should 
be initiated as a continuous 24-hour infusion. 
Paediatric population 
An initial oral dose of 0.30 mg/kg/day should be administered in 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and 
evening). If the clinical condition of the patient prevents oral dosing, an initial intravenous dose of 
0.075 – 0.100 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) should be 
administered as a continuous 24-hour infusion.  
Dose adjustment during post-transplant period in adults and paediatric patients  
Tacrolimus doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. It is possible in some cases to 
withdraw concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, leading to tacrolimus-based dual therapy. 
Post-transplant improvement in the condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of 
tacrolimus and may necessitate further dose adjustments.  
Prophylaxis of liver transplant rejection  
Adults  
Oral Modigraf therapy should commence at 0.10 - 0.20 mg/kg/day administered as 2 divided doses 
(e.g. morning and evening). Administration should commence approximately 12 hours after the 
completion of surgery.  
If the dose cannot be administered orally as a result of the clinical condition of the patient, intravenous 
therapy of 0.01 - 0.05 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) should 
be initiated as a continuous 24-hour infusion.  
Paediatric population 
An initial oral dose of 0.30 mg/kg/day should be administered in 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and 
evening). If the clinical condition of the patient prevents oral dosing, an initial intravenous dose of 
0.05 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) should be administered as 
a continuous 24-hour infusion.  
Dose adjustment during post-transplant period in adults and paediatric patients  
Tacrolimus doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. It is possible in some cases to 
withdraw concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, leading to tacrolimus monotherapy. 
Post-transplant improvement in the condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of 
tacrolimus and may necessitate further dose adjustments.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prophylaxis of heart transplant rejection  
Adults  
Modigraf can be used with antibody induction (allowing for delayed start of tacrolimus therapy) or 
alternatively in clinically stable patients without antibody induction.  
Following antibody induction, oral Modigraf therapy should commence at a dose of 0.075 mg/kg/day 
administered as 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and evening). Administration should commence within 
5 days after the completion of surgery as soon as the patient's clinical condition is stabilised. If the 
dose cannot be administered orally as a result of the clinical condition of the patient, intravenous 
therapy of 0.01 to 0.02 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion) should 
be initiated as a continuous 24-hour infusion.  
An alternative strategy was published where oral tacrolimus was administered within 12 hours post 
transplantation. This approach was reserved for patients without organ dysfunction (e.g. renal 
dysfunction). In that case, an initial oral tacrolimus dose of 2 to 4 mg per day was used in combination 
with mycophenolate mofetil and corticosteroids or in combination with sirolimus and corticosteroids.  
Paediatric population  
Tacrolimus has been used with or without antibody induction in paediatric heart transplantation.  
In patients without antibody induction, if tacrolimus therapy is initiated intravenously, the 
recommended starting dose is 0.03 - 0.05 mg/kg/day (with Prograf 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution 
for infusion) as a continuous 24-hour infusion targeted to achieve tacrolimus whole blood 
concentrations of 15 - 25 nanogram/ml. Patients should be converted to oral therapy as soon as 
clinically practicable. The first dose of oral therapy should be 0.30 mg/kg/day starting 8 to 12 hours 
after discontinuing intravenous therapy.  
Following antibody induction, if Modigraf therapy is initiated orally, the recommended starting dose is 
0.10 - 0.30 mg/kg/day administered as 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and evening).  
Dose adjustment during post-transplant period in adults and paediatric patients  
Tacrolimus doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. Post-transplant improvement in the 
condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus and may necessitate further dose 
adjustments.  
Conversion between Modigraf and Prograf tacrolimus formulations  
In healthy subjects the systemic exposure to tacrolimus (AUC) for Modigraf was approximately 18% 
higher than that for Prograf capsules when administered as single doses. There are no safety data 
available on the use of Modigraf granules following a temporary switch from Prograf or Advagraf in 
critically ill patients.  
Stable allograft recipients maintained on Modigraf granules, requiring conversion to Prograf capsules, 
should be converted on a 1:1 mg:mg total daily dose basis. If equal doses are not possible, the total 
daily dose of Prograf should be rounded-up to the nearest amount possible, with the higher dose given 
in the morning and the lower dose in the evening.  
Similarly, for conversion of patients from Prograf capsules to Modigraf granules, the total daily 
Modigraf dose should preferably be equal to the total daily Prograf dose. If conversion on the basis of 
equal quantities is not possible, the total daily dose of Modigraf should be rounded down to the nearest 
total daily dose possible with sachets 0.2 mg and 1 mg.  
The total daily dose of Modigraf granules should be administered in 2 equal doses. If equal doses are 
not possible, then the higher dose should be administered in the morning and the lower dose in the 
evening. Modigraf sachets must not be used partially.  
Example: Total daily dose Prograf capsules given as 1 mg in the morning and 0.5 mg in the evening. 
Then give a total daily dose of Modigraf 1.4 mg divided as 0.8 mg in the morning and 0.6 mg in the 
evening.  
Tacrolimus trough levels should be measured prior to conversion and within 1 week after conversion. 
Dose adjustments should be made to ensure that similar systemic exposure is maintained.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conversion from ciclosporin to tacrolimus  
Care should be taken when converting patients from ciclosporin-based to tacrolimus-based therapy 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5). The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not 
recommended. Tacrolimus therapy should be initiated after considering ciclosporin blood 
concentrations and the clinical condition of the patient. Dosing should be delayed in the presence of 
elevated ciclosporin blood levels. In practice, tacrolimus-based therapy has been initiated 12 - 24 hours 
after discontinuation of ciclosporin. Monitoring of ciclosporin blood levels should be continued 
following conversion as the clearance of ciclosporin might be affected.  
Treatment of allograft rejection  
Increased tacrolimus doses, supplemental corticosteroid therapy, and introduction of short courses of 
mono-/polyclonal antibodies have all been used to manage rejection episodes. If signs of toxicity such 
as severe adverse reactions are noted (see section 4.8), the dose of Modigraf may need to be reduced. 
Treatment of allograft rejection after kidney or liver transplantation – adults and paediatric patients 
For conversion from other immunosuppressants to twice daily Modigraf, treatment should begin with 
the initial oral dose recommended for primary immunosuppression.  
Treatment of allograft rejection after heart transplantation therapy – adults and paediatric patients 
In adult patients converted to Modigraf, an initial oral dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day should be administered 
in 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and evening).  
In paediatric patients converted to tacrolimus, an initial oral dose of 0.20 - 0.30 mg/kg/day should be 
administered in 2 divided doses (e.g. morning and evening).  
Treatment of allograft rejection after transplantation of other allografts  
The dose recommendations for lung, pancreas and intestinal transplantation are based on limited 
prospective clinical trial data with the Prograf formulation. Prograf has been used in lung-transplanted 
patients at an initial oral dose of 0.10 - 0.15 mg/kg/day, in pancreas-transplanted patients at an initial 
oral dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day and in intestinal transplantation at an initial oral dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day. 
Therapeutic drug monitoring  
Dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
individual patient aided by whole blood tacrolimus trough level monitoring.  
As an aid to optimise dosing, several immunoassays are available for determining tacrolimus 
concentrations in whole blood. Comparisons of concentrations from the published literature to 
individual values in clinical practice should be assessed with care and knowledge of the assay methods 
employed. In current clinical practice, whole blood levels are monitored using immunoassay methods. 
The relationship between tacrolimus trough levels (C12) and systemic exposure (AUC0-12) is similar 
between the 2 formulations Modigraf granules and Prograf capsules.  
Blood trough levels of tacrolimus should be monitored during the post-transplantation period. 
Tacrolimus blood trough levels should be determined approximately 12 hours post-dosing of Modigraf 
granules, just prior to the next dose. Frequent trough level monitoring in the initial 2 weeks post 
transplantation is recommended, followed by periodic monitoring during maintenance therapy. Blood 
trough levels should be monitored at least twice weekly during the early post-transplant period and 
then periodically during maintenance therapy. Blood trough levels of tacrolimus should also be closely 
monitored when clinical signs of toxicity or acute rejection are observed, following conversion 
between Modigraf granules to Prograf capsules, dose adjustments, changes in the immunosuppressive 
regimen, or co-administration of substances which may alter tacrolimus whole blood concentrations 
(see section 4.5). The frequency of blood level monitoring should be based on clinical needs. As 
tacrolimus is a substance with low clearance, it may take several days after adjustments to the 
Modigraf dose regimen before the targeted steady state is achieved (see section 5.2).  
Data from clinical studies suggests that the majority of patients can be successfully managed if 
tacrolimus blood trough levels are maintained below 20 nanogram/ml. It is necessary to consider the 
clinical condition of the patient when interpreting whole blood levels. In clinical practice, whole blood 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trough levels have generally been in the range 5 - 20 nanogram/ml in liver transplant recipients and 
10 - 20 nanogram/ml in kidney and heart transplant patients in the early post-transplant period. During 
subsequent maintenance therapy, blood concentrations have generally been in the range of 
5 - 15 nanogram/ml in liver, kidney and heart transplant recipients. 
Special populations  
Hepatic impairment  
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment in order to maintain the 
blood trough levels within the recommended target range.  
Renal impairment  
As the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus are unaffected by renal function (see section 5.2), no dose 
adjustment is required. However, owing to the nephrotoxic potential of tacrolimus careful monitoring 
of renal function is recommended (including serial serum creatinine concentrations, calculation of 
creatinine clearance and monitoring of urine output).  
Race  
In comparison to Caucasians, black patients may require higher tacrolimus doses to achieve similar 
trough levels.  
Gender  
There is no evidence that male and female patients require different doses to achieve similar trough 
levels.  
Elderly patients  
There is no evidence currently available to indicate that dosing should be adjusted in older people. 
Paediatric population 
In general, paediatric patients require doses 1½ - 2 times higher than the adult doses to achieve similar 
blood levels. 
Method of administration  
Tacrolimus therapy is generally initiated by the oral route. If necessary, tacrolimus dosing may 
commence by administering Modigraf granules suspended in water, via nasogastric tubing.  
It is recommended that the oral daily dose of Modigraf be administered in 2 divided doses (e.g. 
morning and evening).  
Modigraf granules should generally be administered on an empty stomach or at least 1 hour before or 
2 to 3 hours after a meal, to achieve maximal absorption (see section 5.2).  
The required dose is calculated from the weight of the patient, using the minimum number of sachets 
possible. 2 ml of water (at room temperature) should be used per 1 mg tacrolimus to produce a 
suspension (up to a maximum of 50 ml, depending on body weight) in a cup. Materials containing 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) should not be used (see section 6.2). Granules are added to the water and 
stirred. It is not advised to use any liquids or utensils to empty the sachets. The suspension can be 
drawn up via a syringe or swallowed directly by the patient. Thereafter the cup is rinsed once with the 
same quantity of water and the rinsings consumed by the patient. The suspension should be 
administered immediately after preparation.  
4.3 
Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to other macrolides.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use  
There are no safety data available on the use of Modigraf granules following a temporary switch from 
Prograf or Advagraf in critically ill patients.  
Modigraf should not be switched with Advagraf as a clinically relevant difference in bioavailability 
between the two formulations cannot be excluded. Medication errors, including inadvertent, 
unintentional or unsupervised substitution of immediate- or prolonged-release tacrolimus formulations, 
have been observed. This has led to serious adverse reactions, including graft rejection, or other 
adverse reactions which could be a consequence of either under- or over-exposure to tacrolimus. 
Patients should be maintained on a single formulation of tacrolimus with the corresponding daily 
dosing regimen; alterations in formulations or regimen should only take place under the close 
supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).  
During the initial post-transplant period, monitoring of the following parameters should be undertaken 
on a routine basis: blood pressure, ECG, neurological and visual status, fasting blood glucose levels, 
electrolytes (particularly potassium), liver and renal function tests, haematology parameters, 
coagulation values, and plasma protein determinations. If clinically relevant changes are seen, 
adjustments of the immunosuppressive regimen should be considered.  
Substances with potential for interaction 
Inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 should only be co-administered with tacrolimus after consulting a 
transplant specialist, due to the potential for drug interactions resulting in serious adverse reactions 
including rejection or toxicity (see section 4.5).  
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase tacrolimus blood levels, which could lead to 
serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity and QT prolongation. It is 
recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ritonavir, cobicistat, 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, clarithromycin or josamycin) 
with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored 
frequently, starting within the first few days of co-administration, under the supervision of a transplant 
specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if appropriate, in order to maintain similar tacrolimus 
exposure. Renal function, ECG including the QT interval, and the clinical condition of the patient 
should also be closely monitored. 
Dose adjustment needs to be based upon the individual situation of each patient. An immediate dose 
reduction at the time of treatment initiation may be required. (see section 4.5).  
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inhibitors may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to subtherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers may decrease tacrolimus blood levels, potentially increasing 
the risk of transplant rejection. It is recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers 
(such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine), with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, 
tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored frequently, starting within the first few days of co-
administration, under the supervision of a transplant specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate, in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure. Graft function should also be closely 
monitored (see section 4.5). 
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to supratherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
P-glycoprotein 
Caution should be observed when co-administering tacrolimus with drugs that inhibit P-glycoprotein, 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as an increase in tacrolimus levels may occur. Tacrolimus whole blood levels and the clinical 
condition of the patient should be monitored closely. An adjustment of the tacrolimus dose may be 
required (see section 4.5). 
Herbal preparations 
Herbal preparations containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or other herbal preparations 
should be avoided when taking Modigraf due to the risk of interactions that lead to either a decrease in 
blood concentrations of tacrolimus and reduced clinical effect of tacrolimus, or an increase in blood 
concentrations of tacrolimus and risk of tacrolimus toxicity (see section 4.5).  
Other interactions 
The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus should be avoided and care should be 
taken when administering tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5).  
High potassium intake or potassium-sparing diuretics should be avoided (see section 4.5).  
Certain combinations of tacrolimus with drugs known to have neurotoxic effects may increase the 
risks of these effects (see section 4.5).  
Vaccination 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided.  
Nephrotoxicity 
Tacrolimus can result in renal function impairment in post-transplant patients. Acute renal impairment 
without active intervention may progress to chronic renal impairment. Patients with impaired renal 
function should be monitored closely as the dosage of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. The risk for 
nephrotoxicity may increase when tacrolimus is concomitantly administered with drugs associated 
with nephrotoxicity (see section 4.5). Concurrent use of tacrolimus with drugs known to have 
nephrotoxic effects should be avoided. When co-administration cannot be avoided, tacrolimus trough 
blood level and renal function should be monitored closely and dosage reduction should be considered 
if nephrotoxicity occurs. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal perforation has been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. As gastrointestinal 
perforation is a medically important event that may lead to a life-threatening or serious condition, 
adequate treatments should be considered immediately after suspected symptoms or signs occur. 
Since levels of tacrolimus in blood may significantly change during diarrhoea episodes, extra 
monitoring of tacrolimus concentrations is recommended during episodes of diarrhoea. 
Cardiac disorders  
Ventricular hypertrophy or hypertrophy of the septum, reported as cardiomyopathies, have been 
observed on rare occasions. Most cases have been reversible, occurring with tacrolimus blood trough 
concentrations much higher than the recommended maximum levels. Other factors observed to 
increase the risk of these clinical conditions included pre-existing heart disease, corticosteroid usage, 
hypertension, renal or hepatic dysfunction, infections, fluid overload, and oedema. Accordingly, 
high-risk patients, particularly young children and those receiving substantial immunosuppression 
should be monitored, using such procedures as echocardiography or ECG pre- and post-transplant (e.g. 
initially at 3 months and then at 9-12 months). If abnormalities develop, dose reduction of Modigraf, 
or change of treatment to another immunosuppressive agent should be considered. Tacrolimus may 
prolong the QT interval and may cause Torsades de pointes. Caution should be exercised in patients 
with risk factors for QT prolongation, including patients with a personal or family history of QT 
prolongation, congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias and electrolyte abnormalities. Caution should 
also be exercised in patients diagnosed or suspected to have Congenital Long QT Syndrome or 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acquired QT prolongation or patients on concomitant medications known to prolong the QT interval, 
induce electrolyte abnormalities or known to increase tacrolimus exposure (see section 4.5).   
Lymphoproliferative disorders and malignancies  
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-associated 
lymphoproliferative disorders (see section 4.8). A combination of immunosuppressives such as 
antilymphocytic antibodies (e.g. basiliximab, daclizumab) given concomitantly increases the risk of 
EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders. EBV-Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA)-negative patients 
have been reported to have an increased risk of developing lymphoproliferative disorders. Therefore, 
in this patient group, EBV-VCA serology should be ascertained before starting treatment with 
Modigraf. During treatment, careful monitoring with EBV-PCR is recommended. Positive EBV-PCR 
may persist for months and is per se not indicative of lymphoproliferative disease or lymphoma.  
As with other potent immunosuppressive compounds, the risk of secondary cancer is unknown (see 
section 4.8).  
As with other immunosuppressive agents, owing to the potential risk of malignant skin changes, 
exposure to sunlight and UV light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a 
sunscreen with a high protection factor.  
Infections including opportunistic infections  
Patients treated with immunosuppressants, including Modigraf, are at increased risk for infections 
including opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal) such as CMV infection, BK 
virus associated nephropathy and JC virus associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML). Patients are also at an increased risk of infections with viral hepatitis (for example, hepatitis B 
and C reactivation and de novo infection, as well as hepatitis E, which may become chronic). These 
infections are often related to a high total immunosuppressive burden and may lead to serious or fatal 
conditions including graft rejection that physicians should consider in the differential diagnosis in 
immunosuppressed patients with deteriorating hepatic or renal function or neurological symptoms. 
Prevention and management should be in accordance with appropriate clinical guidance. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop posterior reversible encephalopathy 
syndrome (PRES). If patients taking tacrolimus present with symptoms indicating PRES such as 
headache, altered mental status, seizures, and visual disturbances, a radiological procedure (e.g. MRI) 
should be performed. If PRES is diagnosed, adequate blood pressure and seizure control and 
immediate discontinuation of systemic tacrolimus is advised. Most patients completely recover after 
appropriate measures are taken.  
Eye disorders 
Eye disorders, sometimes progressing to loss of vision, have been reported in patients treated with 
tacrolimus. Some cases have reported resolution on switching to alternative immunosuppression. 
Patients should be advised to report changes in visual acuity, changes in colour vision, blurred vision, 
or visual field defect, and in such cases, prompt evaluation is recommended with referral to an 
ophthalmologist as appropriate. 
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) (including haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) and thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)) 
The diagnosis of TMA, including thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura (TTP) and haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS), sometimes leading to renal failure or a fatal outcome, should be considered 
in patients presenting with haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, fluctuating neurological 
manifestation, renal impairment, and fever. If TMA is diagnosed, prompt treatment is required, and 
discontinuation of tacrolimus should be considered at the discretion of the treating physician. 
The concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) 
inhibitor (e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pure Red Cell Aplasia 
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) have been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. All 
patients reported risk factors for PRCA such as parvovirus B19 infection, underlying disease or 
concomitant medications associated with PRCA. 
Special populations  
There is limited experience in non-Caucasian patients and patients at elevated immunological risk (e.g. 
retransplantation, evidence of panel reactive antibodies, PRA).  
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment (see section 4.2).  
Excipients 
As Modigraf granules contain lactose, patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, 
total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine. This 
medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per sachet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Metabolic interactions 
Systemically available tacrolimus is metabolised by hepatic CYP3A4. There is also evidence of 
gastrointestinal metabolism by CYP3A4 in the intestinal wall. Concomitant use of medicinal products 
or herbal remedies known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of tacrolimus and 
thereby increase or decrease tacrolimus blood levels. Similarly, discontinuation of such products or 
herbal remedies may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus and thereby the blood levels of 
tacrolimus. 
Pharmacokinetics studies have indicated that the increase in tacrolimus blood levels when co-
administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 is mainly a result of increase in oral bioavailability of 
tacrolimus owing to the inhibition of gastrointestinal metabolism. Effect on hepatic clearance is less 
pronounced. 
It is recommended strongly to closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels under supervision of a 
transplant specialist, as well as monitor for graft function, QT prolongation (with ECG), renal function 
and other side effects including neurotoxicity, whenever substances which have the potential to alter 
CYP3A4 metabolism are used concomitantly, and to adjust or interrupt the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Similarly, 
patients should be closely monitored when using tacrolimus concomitantly with multiple substances 
that affect CYP3A4 as the effects on tacrolimus exposure may be enhanced or counteracted. 
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus are listed in the table below. The examples of 
drug-drug interactions are not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with tacrolimus should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with regards 
to co-administration. 
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus 
Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect 
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, 
QT prolongation) [see 
section 4.4]. 
10 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit 
juice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
The simultaneous use of 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus should 
be avoided [see section 4.4]. 
Concurrent use of tacrolimus with 
drugs known to have nephrotoxic 
effects should be avoided. When 
co-administration cannot be 
avoided, monitor renal function 
and other side effects and adjust 
tacrolimus dose if needed. 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If co-administration of a 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is 
unavoidable, consider omitting 
the dose of tacrolimus the day the 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is 
initiated. Reinitiate tacrolimus the 
next day at a reduced dose based 
on tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Changes in both 
tacrolimus dose and/or dosing 
frequency should be 
individualized and adjusted as 
needed based on tacrolimus 
trough concentrations, which 
should be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently throughout 
(starting within the first few days) 
and re-evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inhibitor. Upon completion, 
appropriate dose and dosing 
frequency of tacrolimus should be 
guided by tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely.  
Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect 
Ciclosporin 
Products known to have 
nephrotoxic or neurotoxic 
effects: 
aminoglycosides, gyrase 
inhibitors, vancomycin, 
sulfamethoxazole + 
trimethoprim, NSAIDs, 
ganciclovir, acyclovir, 
amphotericin B, ibuprofen 
cidofovir, foscarnet 
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
posaconazole, voriconazole), 
the macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
telithromycin, troleandomycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin), 
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., 
ritonavir, nelfinavir, 
saquinavir), HCV protease 
inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, 
boceprevir, and the 
combination of ombitasvir and 
paritaprevir with ritonavir, 
when used with and without 
dasabuvir), nefazodone, the 
pharmacokinetic enhancer 
cobicistat and the kinase 
inhibitors idelalisib, ceritinib. 
Strong interactions have also 
been observed with the 
macrolide antibiotic 
erythromycin 
May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations. In addition, 
synergistic/additive 
nephrotoxic effects can 
occur. 
May enhance nephrotoxic or 
neurotoxic effects of 
tacrolimus. 
May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., 
nephrotoxicity, 
neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) which requires 
close monitoring [see section 
4.4]. 
Rapid and sharp increases in 
tacrolimus levels may occur, 
as early as within 1-3 days 
after co-administration, 
despite immediate reduction 
of tacrolimus dose. Overall 
tacrolimus exposure may 
increase > 5 fold. When 
ritonavir combinations are 
co-administered, tacrolimus 
exposure may increase > 50 
fold. 
Nearly all patients may 
require a reduction in 
tacrolimus dose and 
temporary interruption of 
tacrolimus may also be 
necessary. 
The effect on tacrolimus 
blood concentrations may 
remain for several days after 
co-administration is 
completed. 
11 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Moderate or weak CYP3A4 
inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
fluconazole, isavuconazole, 
clotrimazole, miconazole), the 
macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
azithromycin), calcium 
channel blockers (e.g., 
nifedipine, nicardipine, 
diltiazem, verapamil), 
amiodarone, danazol, 
ethinylestradiol, lansoprazole, 
omeprazole, the HCV 
antivirals elbasvir/grazoprevir 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, 
the CMV antiviral letermovir, 
and the tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors nilotinib, crizotinib 
and imatinib and (Chinese) 
herbal remedies containing 
extracts of Schisandra 
sphenanthera 
In vitro the following 
substances have been shown to 
be potential inhibitors of 
tacrolimus metabolism: 
bromocriptine, cortisone, 
dapsone, ergotamine, 
gestodene, lidocaine, 
mephenytoin, midazolam, 
nilvadipine, norethisterone, 
quinidine, tamoxifen 
Strong CYP3A4 inducers: 
rifampicin, phenytoin 
carbamazepine, apalutamide, 
enzalutamide, mitotane or St. 
John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, 
QT prolongation) [see 
section 4.4]. A rapid increase 
in tacrolimus level may 
occur. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations frequently, 
starting within the first few days 
of co-administration. Reduce 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely. 
May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, 
QT prolongation) [see 
section 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and reduce 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. 
Monitor renal function, ECG for 
QT prolongation, and other side 
effects closely. 
May decrease tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Maximal effect on tacrolimus 
blood concentrations may be 
achieved 1-2 weeks after co-
administration. The effect 
may remain 1-2 weeks after 
completion of the treatment. 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If unavoidable, patients 
may require an increase in 
tacrolimus dose. Changes in 
tacrolimus dose should be 
individualized and adjusted as 
needed based on tacrolimus 
trough concentrations, which 
should be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently throughout 
(starting within the first few days) 
and re-evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inducer. After use of the CYP3A4 
inducer has ended, tacrolimus 
dose may need to be adjusted 
gradually. Monitor graft function 
closely. 
12 
 
 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Moderate CYP3A4 inducers: 
metamizole, phenobarbital, 
isoniazid rifabutin, efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine; weak 
CYP3A4 inducers: 
flucloxacillin 
Caspofungin 
Cannabidiol (P-gp inhibitor) 
Products known to have high 
affinity for plasma proteins, 
e.g.: NSAIDs, oral 
anticoagulants, oral 
antidiabetics 
Prokinetic agents: 
metoclopramide, cimetidine 
and magnesium-aluminium-
hydroxide 
Maintenance doses of 
corticosteroids 
High dose prednisolone or 
methylprednisolone 
Direct-acting antiviral (DAA) 
therapy 
May decrease tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and 
increase tacrolimus dose if needed 
[see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely.  
May decrease tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of rejection. 
Mechanism of interaction has 
not been confirmed. 
There have been reports of 
increased tacrolimus blood 
levels during concomitant 
use of tacrolimus with 
cannabidiol. This may be due 
to inhibition of intestinal P-
glycoprotein, leading to 
increased bioavailability of 
tacrolimus. 
Tacrolimus is extensively 
bound to plasma proteins. 
Possible interactions with 
other active substances 
known to have high affinity 
for plasma proteins should be 
considered. 
May increase tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, 
QT prolongation). 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and 
increase tacrolimus dose if needed 
[see section 4.2]. Monitor graft 
function closely. 
Tacrolimus and cannabidiol 
should be co-administered with 
caution, closely monitoring for 
side effects. Monitor tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and adjust the 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and adjust 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and reduce 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. 
Monitor closely for renal 
function, for QT prolongation 
with ECG, and for other side 
effects. 
May decrease tacrolimus 
whole blood trough 
concentrations and increase 
the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and 
increase tacrolimus dose if needed 
[see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
May have impact on 
tacrolimus blood levels 
(increase or decrease) when 
administered for the 
treatment of acute rejection. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and adjust 
tacrolimus dose if needed. 
May have impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of 
tacrolimus by changes in 
liver function during DAA 
therapy, related to clearance 
Monitor tacrolimus whole blood 
trough concentrations and adjust 
tacrolimus dose if needed to 
ensure continued efficacy and 
safety. 
13 
 
 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
of HCV virus. A decrease in 
tacrolimus blood levels may 
occur. However, the 
CYP3A4 inhibiting potential 
of some DAAs may 
counteract that effect or lead 
to increased tacrolimus blood 
levels. 
Concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor 
(e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura) (see section 4.4).  
As tacrolimus treatment may be associated with hyperkalaemia, or may increase pre-existing 
hyperkalaemia, high potassium intake, or potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g. amiloride, triamterene, or 
spironolactone) should be avoided (see section 4.4). Care should be taken when tacrolimus is co-
administered with other agents that increase serum potassium, such as trimethoprim and cotrimoxazole 
(trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), as trimethoprim is known to act as a potassium-sparing diuretic like 
amiloride. Close monitoring of serum potassium is recommended. 
Effect of tacrolimus on the metabolism of other medicinal products  
Tacrolimus is a known CYP3A4 inhibitor; thus, concomitant use of tacrolimus with medicinal 
products known to be metabolised by CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of such medicinal products.  
The half-life of ciclosporin is prolonged when tacrolimus is given concomitantly. In addition, 
synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. For these reasons, the combined administration of 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not recommended and care should be taken when administering 
tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Tacrolimus has been shown to increase the blood level of phenytoin.  
As tacrolimus may reduce the clearance of steroid-based contraceptives leading to increased hormone 
exposure, particular care should be exercised when deciding upon contraceptive measures.  
Limited knowledge of interactions between tacrolimus and statins is available. Clinical data suggest 
that the pharmacokinetics of statins are largely unaltered by the co-administration of tacrolimus.  
Animal data have shown that tacrolimus could potentially decrease the clearance and increase the 
half-life of pentobarbital and phenazone.  
Mycophenolic acid. Caution should be exercised when switching combination therapy from 
ciclosporin, which interferes with enterohepatic recirculation of mycophenolic acid, to tacrolimus, 
which is devoid of this effect, as this might result in changes of mycophenolic acid exposure. Drugs 
which interfere with mycophenolic acid's enterohepatic cycle have potential to reduce the plasma level 
and efficacy of mycophenolic acid. Therapeutic drug monitoring of mycophenolic acid may be 
appropriate when switching from ciclosporin to tacrolimus or vice versa. 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided (see 
section 4.4).  
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy  
Human data show that tacrolimus crosses the placenta. Limited data from organ transplant recipients 
show no evidence of an increased risk of adverse reactions on the course and outcome of pregnancy 
under tacrolimus treatment compared with other immunosuppressive medicinal products. However, 
cases of spontaneous abortion have been reported. To date, no other relevant epidemiological data are 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available. Tacrolimus treatment can be considered in pregnant women, when there is no safer 
alternative and when the perceived benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. In case of in utero 
exposure, monitoring of the newborn for the potential adverse events of tacrolimus is recommended 
(in particular effects on the kidneys).There is a risk for premature delivery (< 37 week) (incidence of 
66 of 123 births, i.e. 53.7%; however, data showed that the majority of the newborns had normal birth 
weight for their gestational age) as well as for hyperkalaemia in the newborn 
(incidence 8 of 111 neonates, i.e. 7.2%) which, however normalises spontaneously.  
In rats and rabbits, tacrolimus caused embryofoetal toxicity at doses which demonstrated maternal 
toxicity (see section 5.3). Tacrolimus affected fertility in male rats (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding  
Human data demonstrate that tacrolimus is excreted into breast milk. As detrimental effects on the 
newborn cannot be excluded, women should not breast-feed whilst receiving tacrolimus. 
Fertility  
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm counts and motility was 
observed in rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Tacrolimus may cause visual and neurological disturbances. This effect may be enhanced if tacrolimus 
is administered in association with alcohol.  
No studies on the effects of tacrolimus (Modigraf) on the ability to drive and use machines have been 
performed. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The adverse reaction profile associated with immunosuppressive agents is often difficult to establish 
owing to the underlying disease and the concurrent use of multiple medicinal products. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions (occurring in > 10% of patients) are tremor, renal 
impairment, hyperglycaemic conditions, diabetes mellitus, hyperkalaemia, infections, hypertension 
and insomnia.  
List of adverse reactions 
The frequency of adverse reactions is defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
Infections and infestations  
As is well known for other potent immunosuppressive agents, patients receiving tacrolimus are 
frequently at increased risk for infections (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoal). The course of 
pre-existing infections may be aggravated. Both generalised and localised infections can occur.  
Cases of CMV infection, BK virus associated nephropathy, as well as cases of JC virus associated 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), have been reported in patients treated with 
immunosuppressants, including Modigraf.  
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps)  
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk of developing malignancies. 
Benign as well as malignant neoplasms including EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders and 
skin malignancies have been reported in association with tacrolimus treatment.  
Blood and lymphatic system disorders  
common: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, red blood cell analyses abnormal, 
leukocytosis  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uncommon: 
rare: 
not known: 
coagulopathies, pancytopenia, neutropenia, coagulation and bleeding analyses 
abnormal, thrombotic microangiopathy   
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, hypoprothrombinaemia 
pure red cell aplasia, agranulocytosis, haemolytic anaemia, febrile neutropenia 
Immune system disorders  
Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in patients receiving tacrolimus (see 
section 4.4).  
Endocrine disorders  
rare: 
hirsutism  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders  
very common: 
common: 
diabetes mellitus, hyperglycaemic conditions, hyperkalaemia  
metabolic acidoses, other electrolyte abnormalities, hyponatraemia, fluid 
overload, hyperuricaemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypokalaemia, hypocalcaemia, 
appetite decreased, hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia, 
hypertriglyceridaemia, hypophosphataemia  
dehydration, hypoglycaemia, hypoproteinaemia, hyperphosphataemia  
insomnia  
confusion and disorientation, depression, anxiety symptoms, hallucination, 
mental disorders, depressed mood, mood disorders and disturbances, nightmare  
psychotic disorder  
headache, tremor  
nervous system disorders, seizures, disturbances in consciousness, peripheral 
neuropathies, dizziness, paraesthesias and dysaesthesias, writing impaired  
encephalopathy, central nervous system haemorrhages and cerebrovascular 
accidents, coma, speech and language abnormalities, paralysis and paresis, 
amnesia  
hypertonia  
myasthenia 
posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
uncommon: 
Psychiatric disorders  
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
Nervous system disorders  
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare: 
not known: 
Eye disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
not known: 
eye disorders, vision blurred, photophobia  
cataract  
blindness 
optic neuropathy 
Ear and labyrinth disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare: 
tinnitus  
hypoacusis  
deafness neurosensory  
hearing impaired 
Cardiac disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare: 
ischaemic coronary artery disorders, tachycardia  
heart failures, ventricular arrhythmias and cardiac arrest, supraventricular 
arrhythmias, cardiomyopathies, ventricular hypertrophy, palpitations 
pericardial effusion  
Torsades de pointes  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vascular disorders  
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
hypertension  
thromboembolic and ischaemic events, vascular hypotensive disorders, 
haemorrhage, peripheral vascular disorders  
venous thrombosis deep limb, shock, infarction  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
parenchymal lung disorders, dyspnoea, pleural effusion, cough, pharyngitis, 
nasal congestion and inflammations  
respiratory failures, respiratory tract disorders, asthma  
acute respiratory distress syndrome  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
very common: 
common: 
diarrhoea, nausea  
gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, vomiting, gastrointestinal and abdominal 
pains, gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions, gastrointestinal haemorrhages, 
gastrointestinal ulceration and perforation, ascites, stomatitis and ulceration, 
constipation, dyspeptic signs and symptoms, flatulence, bloating and distension, 
loose stools  
acute and chronic pancreatitis, ileus paralytic, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
impaired gastric emptying  
pancreatic pseudocyst, subileus  
uncommon: 
rare: 
Hepatobiliary disorders  
common: 
rare: 
very rare: 
bile duct disorders, hepatocellular damage and hepatitis, cholestasis and 
jaundice  
venoocclusive liver disease, hepatic artery thrombosis  
hepatic failure  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare: 
rash, pruritus, alopecias, acne, sweating increased  
dermatitis, photosensitivity  
toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome)  
Stevens Johnson syndrome  
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
arthralgia, back pain, muscle spasms, pain in extremity 
joint disorders  
mobility decreased 
Renal and urinary disorders  
very common:  
common:  
uncommon: 
very rare: 
renal impairment 
renal failure, renal failure acute, nephropathy toxic, renal tubular necrosis, 
urinary abnormalities, oliguria, bladder and urethral symptoms  
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, anuria 
nephropathy, cystitis haemorrhagic  
Reproductive system and breast disorders  
uncommon: 
dysmenorrhoea and uterine bleeding  
General disorders and administration site conditions  
common: 
uncommon: 
rare: 
very rare: 
febrile disorders, pain and discomfort, asthenic conditions, oedema, body 
temperature perception disturbed  
influenza like illness, feeling jittery, feeling abnormal, multi-organ failure, chest 
pressure sensation, temperature intolerance  
fall, ulcer, chest tightness, thirst  
fat tissue increased  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigations 
very common: 
common: 
uncommon: 
very rare: 
liver function tests abnormal 
blood alkaline phosphatase increased, weight increased 
amylase increased, ECG investigations abnormal, heart rate and pulse 
investigations abnormal, weight decreased, blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
echocardiogram abnormal, electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications  
primary graft dysfunction  
common: 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Pain in extremity has been described in a number of published case reports as part of Calcineurin-
Inhibitor Induced Pain Syndrome (CIPS). This typically presents as a bilateral and symmetrical, 
severe, ascending pain in the lower extremities and may be associated with supra-therapeutic levels of 
tacrolimus. The syndrome may respond to tacrolimus dose reduction. In some cases, it was necessary 
to switch to alternative immunosuppression. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose  
Several cases of accidental overdose have been reported with tacrolimus; symptoms have included 
tremor, headache, nausea and vomiting, infections, urticaria, lethargy and increases in blood urea 
nitrogen, serum creatinine concentrations and alanine aminotransferase levels.  
No specific antidote to tacrolimus therapy is available. If overdose occurs, general supportive 
measures and symptomatic treatment should be conducted.  
Based on its high molecular weight, poor aqueous solubility, and extensive erythrocyte and plasma 
protein binding, it is anticipated that tacrolimus will not be dialysable. In isolated patients with very 
high plasma levels, haemofiltration or -diafiltration have been effective in reducing toxic 
concentrations. In cases of oral intoxication, gastric lavage and/or the use of adsorbents (such as 
activated charcoal) may be helpful, if used shortly after intake. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, calcineurin inhibitors, ATC code: L04AD02   
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
At the molecular level, the effects of tacrolimus appear to be mediated by binding to a cytosolic 
protein (FKBP12) which is responsible for the intracellular accumulation of the compound. The 
FKBP12-tacrolimus complex specifically and competitively binds to and inhibits calcineurin, leading 
to a calcium-dependent inhibition of T-cell signal transduction pathways, thereby preventing 
transcription of a discrete set of lymphokine genes. 
Tacrolimus is a highly potent immunosuppressive agent and has proven activity in both in vitro and 
in vivo experiments.  
In particular, tacrolimus inhibits the formation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, which are mainly responsible 
for graft rejection. Tacrolimus suppresses T-cell activation and T-helper-cell dependent B-cell 
proliferation, as well as the formation of lymphokines (such as interleukins-2, -3, and γ-interferon) and 
the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor.  
18 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety of tacrolimus administered twice daily in other primary organ 
transplantation  
In prospective published studies oral tacrolimus (given as Prograf capsules) was investigated as 
primary immunosuppressant in approximately 175 patients following lung, 475 patients following 
pancreas and 630 patients following intestinal transplantation. Overall, the safety profile of oral 
tacrolimus in these published studies appeared to be similar to what was reported in the large studies, 
where tacrolimus was used as primary treatment in liver, kidney and heart transplantation. Efficacy 
results of the largest studies in each indication are summarised below. 
Lung transplantation  
The interim analysis of a recent multicentre study discussed 110 patients who underwent 
1:1 randomisation to either tacrolimus or ciclosporin. Tacrolimus was started as continuous 
intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg/day and oral tacrolimus was administered at a 
dose of 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg/day. A lower incidence of acute rejection episodes for tacrolimus- versus 
ciclosporin-treated patients (11.5% versus 22.6%) and a lower incidence of chronic rejection, the 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (2.86% versus 8.57%), was reported within the first year after 
transplantation. The 1-year patient survival rate was 80.8% in the tacrolimus and 83% in the 
ciclosporin group. 
Another randomised study included 66 patients on tacrolimus versus 67 patients on ciclosporin. 
Tacrolimus was started as continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.025 mg/kg/day and oral 
tacrolimus was administered at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg/day with subsequent dose adjustments to target 
trough levels of 10 to 20 nanogram/ml. The 1-year patient survival was 83% in the tacrolimus and 
71% in the ciclosporin group, the 2-year survival rates were 76% and 66%, respectively. Acute 
rejection episodes per 100 patient-days were numerically fewer in the tacrolimus (0.85 episodes) than 
in the ciclosporin group (1.09 episodes). Obliterative bronchiolitis developed in 21.7% of patients in 
the tacrolimus group compared with 38.0% of patients in the ciclosporin group (p = 0.025). 
Significantly more ciclosporin-treated patients (n = 13) required a switch to tacrolimus than 
tacrolimus-treated patients to ciclosporin (n = 2) (p = 0.02).  
In an additional 2-centre study, 26 patients were randomised to the tacrolimus versus 24 patients to the 
ciclosporin group. Tacrolimus was started as continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 
0.05 mg/kg/day and oral tacrolimus was administered at a dose of 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/day with 
subsequent dose adjustments to target trough levels of 12 to 15 nanogram/ml. The 1-year survival rates 
were 73.1% in the tacrolimus versus 79.2% in the ciclosporin group. Freedom from acute rejection 
was higher in the tacrolimus group at 6 months (57.7% versus 45.8%) and at 1 year after lung 
transplantation (50% versus 33.3%). 
The 3 studies demonstrated similar survival rates. The incidences of acute rejection were numerically 
lower with tacrolimus in all 3 studies and one of the studies reported a significantly lower incidence of 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome with tacrolimus.  
Pancreas transplantation  
A multicentre study included 205 patients undergoing simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation 
who were randomised to tacrolimus (n = 103) or to ciclosporin (n = 102). The initial oral per protocol 
dose of tacrolimus was 0.2 mg/kg/day with subsequent dose adjustments to target trough levels of 8 to 
15 nanogram/ml by Day 5 and 5 to 10 nanogram/ml after Month 6. Pancreas survival at 1 year was 
significantly superior with tacrolimus: 91.3% versus 74.5% with ciclosporin (p < 0.0005), whereas 
renal graft survival was similar in both groups. In total 34 patients switched treatment from ciclosporin 
to tacrolimus, whereas only 6 tacrolimus patients required alternative therapy.  
Intestinal transplantation  
Published clinical experience from a single centre on the use of oral tacrolimus for primary treatment 
following intestinal transplantation showed that the actuarial survival rate of 155 patients (65 intestine 
alone, 75 liver and intestine, and 25 multivisceral) receiving tacrolimus and prednisone was 75% at 
1 year, 54% at 5 years, and 42% at 10 years. In the early years the initial oral dose of tacrolimus was 
0.3 mg/kg/day. Results continuously improved with increasing experience over the course of 11 years. 
A variety of innovations, such as techniques for early detection of Epstein-Barr (EBV) and CMV 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections, bone marrow augmentation, the adjunct use of the interleukin-2 antagonist daclizumab, 
lower initial tacrolimus doses with target trough levels of 10 to 15 nanogram/ml, and most recently 
allograft irradiation were considered to have contributed to improved results in this indication over 
time. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
Absorption  
In man, tacrolimus has been shown to be able to be absorbed throughout the gastrointestinal tract. 
Available tacrolimus is generally rapidly absorbed.  
Modigraf granules are an immediate-release formulation of tacrolimus for twice daily dosing. 
Following oral administration of Modigraf granules peak concentrations (Cmax) of tacrolimus in blood 
are on average achieved in approximately 2 to 2.5 hours. 
Absorption of tacrolimus is variable. Results of a single dose bioequivalence study with adult healthy 
volunteers showed that Modigraf granules were approximately 20% more bioavailable than the 
Prograf capsules. Mean oral bioavailability of tacrolimus (investigated with the Prograf capsules 
formulation) is in the range of 20 - 25% (individual range in adult patients 6 - 43%, in paediatric 
kidney transplant patients 3 - 77%). The oral bioavailability of tacrolimus was reduced when it was 
administered after a meal.  
Bile flow does not influence the absorption of tacrolimus and therefore treatment with Modigraf 
granules may commence orally.  
In some patients, tacrolimus appears to be continuously absorbed over a prolonged period yielding a 
relatively flat absorption profile.  
The rate and extent of absorption of tacrolimus is greatest under fasted conditions. The presence of 
food decreases both the rate and extent of absorption of tacrolimus, the effect being most pronounced 
after a high-fat meal. The effect of a high-carbohydrate meal is less pronounced.  
In stable liver transplant patients, the oral bioavailability of tacrolimus was reduced when it was 
administered after a meal of moderate fat (34% of calories) content. Decreases in AUC (27%) and Cmax 
(50%), and an increase in tmax (173%) in whole blood were evident.  
In a study of stable renal transplant patients who were administered tacrolimus immediately after a 
standard continental breakfast the effect on oral bioavailability was less pronounced. Decreases in 
AUC (2 to 12%) and Cmax (15 to 38%), and an increase in tmax (38 to 80%) in whole blood were 
evident.  
A strong correlation exists between AUC and whole blood trough levels at steady-state for Modigraf. 
Monitoring of whole blood trough levels therefore provides a good estimate of systemic exposure.  
Distribution  
In man, the disposition of tacrolimus after intravenous infusion may be described as biphasic.  
In the systemic circulation, tacrolimus binds strongly to erythrocytes resulting in an approximate 20:1 
distribution ratio of whole blood/plasma concentrations. In plasma, tacrolimus is highly bound 
(> 98.8%) to plasma proteins, mainly to serum albumin and α-1-acid glycoprotein.  
Tacrolimus is extensively distributed in the body. The steady-state volume of distribution based on 
plasma concentrations is approximately 1300 l (healthy subjects). Corresponding data based on whole 
blood averaged 47.6 l. 
Metabolism  
Tacrolimus is widely metabolised in the liver, primarily by the cytochrome P450-3A4 (CYP3A4) and 
the cytochrome P450-3A5 (CYP3A5). Tacrolimus is also considerably metabolised in the intestinal 
wall. There are several metabolites identified. Only one of these has been shown in vitro to have 
immunosuppressive activity similar to that of tacrolimus. The other metabolites have only weak or no 
immunosuppressive activity. In systemic circulation only one of the inactive metabolites is present at 
low concentrations. Therefore, metabolites do not contribute to pharmacological activity of tacrolimus. 
Excretion   
Tacrolimus is a low-clearance substance. In healthy subjects, the average total body clearance 
estimated from whole blood concentrations was 2.25 l/h. In adult liver, kidney and heart transplant 
patients, values of 4.1 l/h, 6.7 l/h and 3.9 l/h, respectively, have been observed. Factors such as low 
20 
 
 
haematocrit and protein levels, which result in an increase in the unbound fraction of tacrolimus, or 
corticosteroid-induced increased metabolism, are considered to be responsible for the higher clearance 
rates observed following transplantation. 
The half-life of tacrolimus is long and variable. In healthy subjects, the mean half-life in whole blood 
was approximately 43 hours. In adult and paediatric liver transplant patients, it averaged 11.7 hours 
and 12.4 hours, respectively, compared with 15.6 hours in adult kidney transplant recipients. Increased 
clearance rates contribute to the shorter half-life observed in transplant recipients.  
Following intravenous and oral administration of 14C-labelled tacrolimus, most of the radioactivity was 
eliminated in the faeces. Approximately 2% of the radioactivity was eliminated in the urine. Less than 
1% of unchanged tacrolimus was detected in the urine and faeces, indicating that tacrolimus is almost 
completely metabolised prior to elimination: bile being the principal route of elimination.  
Paediatric data  
In paediatric liver transplant patients the mean oral bioavailability of tacrolimus (investigated with the 
Modigraf granules) is 26% ± 23% (individual range in paediatric liver transplant patients 4 - 80%). 
Data on oral bioavailability of Modigraf in other indications is not available.  
After oral administration (0.30 mg/kg/day) to paediatric liver transplant patients, steady-state 
concentrations of tacrolimus were achieved within 3 days in the majority of patients.  
In paediatric liver and kidney transplant patients, values for total body clearance of 
2.3 ± 1.2 ml/min/kg and 2.1 ± 0.6 ml/min/kg, respectively, have been observed. Highly variable age 
dependent total body clearance and half-life were observed in limited paediatric clinical investigations, 
especially in early childhood.  
The half-life in paediatric transplant patients averages approximately 12 hours.  
5.3 
Preclinical safety data  
The kidneys and the pancreas were the primary organs affected in toxicity studies performed in rats 
and baboons. In rats, tacrolimus caused toxic effects to the nervous system and the eyes. Reversible 
cardiotoxic effects were observed in rabbits following intravenous administration of tacrolimus. 
When tacrolimus is administered intravenously as rapid infusion/bolus injection at a dose of 0.1 to 
1.0 mg/kg, QTc prolongation has been observed in some animal species. Peak blood concentrations 
achieved with these doses were above 150 nanogram/mL which is more than 6-fold higher than mean 
peak concentrations observed with Modigraf in clinical transplantation.  
Embryofoetal toxicity was observed in rats and rabbits and was limited to doses that caused significant 
toxicity in maternal animals. In rats, female reproductive function including birth was impaired at 
toxic doses and the offspring showed reduced birth weights, viability and growth.  
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm counts and motility was 
observed in rats.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1 
List of excipients  
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Croscarmellose sodium (E468) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Tacrolimus is not compatible with PVC (polyvinylchloride) plastics. Materials used to prepare and 
administer the suspension, e.g. drinking vessels, cups, or tubing, must not contain PVC. 
6.3 
Shelf life  
3 years. 
21 
 
 
 
 
After preparation, the suspension should be administered immediately. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container  
Sachets consisting of layers of polyethylene terephtalate (PET), aluminium (Al) and polyethylene 
(PE).  
Pack size: carton box containing 50 sachets. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
 Based on immunosuppressive effects of tacrolimus, inhalation or direct contact with skin or mucous 
membranes by the formulations for injection, powder or granule contained in tacrolimus products 
should be avoided during preparation. If such contact occurs, wash the skin and flush the affected eye 
or eyes. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands  
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Modigraf 0.2 mg granules for oral suspension 
EU/1/09/523/001 
Modigraf 1 mg granules for oral suspension 
EU/1/09/523/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 15 May 2009 
Date of latest renewal: 17 Feb 2014 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT  
23 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Astellas Ireland Co. Ltd 
Killorglin  
Co. Kerry, V93FC86 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENT OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
• 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Modigraf 0.2 mg granules for oral suspension  
tacrolimus  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains 0.2 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
50 sachets containing granules for oral suspension.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Suspend the granules in water.  
Oral use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
After preparation, the suspension should be administered immediately.  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
27 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/09/523/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
modigraf 0.2 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET FOIL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Modigraf 0.2 mg granules for oral suspension  
tacrolimus 
oral use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Modigraf 1 mg granules for oral suspension  
tacrolimus  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
50 sachets containing granules for oral suspension.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Suspend the granules in water.  
Oral use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
After preparation, the suspension should be administered immediately.  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
30 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/09/523/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
modigraf 1 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET FOIL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Modigraf 1 mg granules for oral suspension  
tacrolimus 
oral use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user  
Modigraf 0.2 mg, granules for oral suspension 
Modigraf 1 mg, granules for oral suspension 
Tacrolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
- 
-  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
- 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Modigraf is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Modigraf 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Modigraf 
Possible side effects 
How to store Modigraf 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Modigraf is and what it is used for 
Modigraf contains the active substance tacrolimus. It is an immunosuppressant. Following your organ 
transplant (e.g., liver, kidney, heart), your body’s immune system will try to reject the new organ. 
Modigraf is used to control your body’s immune response enabling your body to accept the 
transplanted organ.  
You may also be given Modigraf for an ongoing rejection of your transplanted liver, kidney, heart or 
other organ or if any previous treatment you were taking was unable to control this immune response 
after your transplantation. 
Modigraf is used in adults and children. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Modigraf 
Do not take Modigraf 
- 
If you are allergic to tacrolimus or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
If you are allergic to sirolimus (another substance used to prevent rejection of your transplanted 
organ) or to any macrolide antibiotic (e.g., erythromycin, clarithromycin, josamycin). 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Modigraf  
-  
-  
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have had liver problems.  
if you have diarrhoea for more than one day.  
if you feel strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, such as chills, 
fever, nausea or vomiting. 
if you have an alteration of the electrical activity of your heart called “QT prolongation”. 
if you have or have had damage to the smallest blood vessels, known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy/thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/haemolytic uraemic syndrome. Tell 
your doctor if you develop fever, bruising under the skin (which may appear as red dots), 
unexplained tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes, reduced urine output, vision 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
loss and seizures (see section 4). When tacrolimus is taken together with sirolimus or 
everolimus, the risk of developing these symptoms may increase. 
Please avoid taking any herbal remedies, e.g., St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or any other 
herbal products as this may affect the effectiveness and the dose of Modigraf that you need to receive. 
If in doubt please consult your doctor prior to taking any herbal products or remedies.  
Your doctor may need to adjust your dose of Modigraf.  
You should keep in regular contact with your doctor. From time to time, your doctor may need to do 
blood, urine, heart, eye tests, to set the right dose of Modigraf.  
You should limit your exposure to the sun and UV (ultraviolet) light whilst taking Modigraf. This is 
because immunosuppressants like Modigraf could increase the risk of skin cancer. In case of sun 
exposure, wear appropriate protective clothing and use a sunscreen with a high sun protection factor.  
Precaution for handling: 
Direct contact with any part of your body like your skin or eyes, or breathing in of injection solutions, 
powder or granules contained in tacrolimus products should be avoided during preparation. If such 
contact occurs, wash the skin and eyes. 
Other medicines and Modigraf 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.  
It is not recommended that Modigraf is taken with ciclosporin (another medicine used for the 
prevention of transplant organ rejection).  
If you need to attend a doctor other than your transplant specialist, tell the doctor that you are 
taking tacrolimus. Your doctor may need to consult your transplant specialist if you should use 
another medicine that could increase or decrease your tacrolimus blood level. 
Modigraf blood levels can be affected by other medicines you take, and blood levels of other 
medicines can be affected by taking Modigraf, which may require interruption, an increase or a 
decrease in Modigraf dose.  
Some patients have experienced increases in tacrolimus blood levels while taking other medicines. 
This could lead to serious side effects, such as kidney problems, nervous system problems, and heart 
rhythm disturbances (see section 4).  
An effect on the Modigraf blood levels may occur very soon after starting the use of another medicine, 
therefore frequent continued monitoring of your Modigraf blood level may be needed within the first 
few days of starting another medicine and frequently while treatment with the other medicine 
continues. Some other medicines may cause tacrolimus blood levels to decrease, which could increase 
the risk of rejecting the transplanted organ. In particular, you should tell your doctor if you are taking 
or have recently taken medicines like: 
-  
antifungal medicines and antibiotics, particularly so-called macrolide antibiotics, used to treat 
infections e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, 
clotrimazole, isavuconazole, miconazole, caspofungin, telithromycin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin, azithromycin, rifampicin, rifabutin, isoniazid and flucloxacillin 
letermovir, used to prevent illness caused by CMV (human cytomegalovirus)  
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir), the booster medicine cobicistat, 
and combination tablets, or HIV non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine) used to treat HIV infection  
HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, boceprevir, the combination 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, and 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir), used to treat hepatitis C infection 
- 
-  
-  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
- 
-  
-  
- 
- 
nilotinib and imatinib, idelalisib, ceritinib, crizotinib, apalutamide, enzalutamide, or mitotane 
(used to treat certain cancers) 
mycophenolic acid, used to suppress the immune system to prevent transplant rejection  
medicines for stomach ulcer and acid reflux (e.g., omeprazole, lansoprazole or cimetidine)  
antiemetics, used to treat nausea and vomiting (e.g.,  metoclopramide)  
cisapride or the antacid magnesium-aluminium-hydroxide, used to treat heartburn  
the contraceptive pill, hormone treatments with ethinylestradiol, or hormone treatments with 
danazol  
medicines used to treat high blood pressure or heart problems (e.g., nifedipine, nicardipine, 
diltiazem and verapamil)  
anti-arrhythmic medicines (amiodarone) used to control arrhythmia (uneven beating of the 
heart) 
medicines known as “statins” used to treat elevated cholesterol and triglycerides  
carbamazepine, phenytoin or phenobarbital, used to treat epilepsy  
metamizole, used to treat pain and fever 
the corticosteroids prednisolone and methylprednisolone, belonging to the class of 
corticosteroids used to treat inflammations or suppress the immune system (e.g., in transplant 
rejection) 
nefazodone, used to treat depression  
herbal preparations containing St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or extracts of 
Schisandra sphenanthera. 
cannabidiol (uses amongst others include treatment of seizures) 
Tell your doctor if you are receiving treatment for hepatitis C. The drug treatment for hepatitis C may 
change your liver function and may affect blood levels of tacrolimus. Tacrolimus blood levels may fall 
or may increase depending on the medicines prescribed for hepatitis C. Your doctor may need to 
closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels and make necessary adjustments of Modigraf dose after you 
start treatment for hepatitis C. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or need to take ibuprofen (used to treat fever, inflammation and 
pain), antibiotics (cotrimoxazole, vancomycin, or aminoglycoside antibiotics such as gentamicin), 
amphotericin B (used to treat fungal infections) or antivirals (used to treat viral infections e.g. 
acyclovir, ganciclovir, cidofovir, foscarnet). These may worsen kidney or nervous system problems 
when taken together with Modigraf.  
Tell your doctor if you are taking sirolimus or everolimus. When tacrolimus is taken together with 
sirolimus or everolimus, the risk of developing thrombotic microangiopathy, thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura, and haemolytic uraemic syndrome may increase (see section 4).  
Your doctor also needs to know if you are taking potassium supplements or certain diuretics used for 
heart failure, hypertension and kidney disease, (e.g. amiloride, triamterene, or spironolactone), or the 
antibiotics trimethoprim or cotrimoxazole that may increase levels of potassium in your blood, 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, e.g. ibuprofen) used for fever, inflammation and 
pain, anticoagulants (blood thinners), or oral medicines for diabetes, while you take Modigraf.  
If you need to have any vaccinations, please tell your doctor before. 
Modigraf with food and drink  
You should generally take Modigraf on an empty stomach or at least 1 hour before or 2 to 3 hours after 
a meal. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided while taking Modigraf, since it can affect its 
levels in the blood. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you take Modigraf during pregnancy, it may pass into your baby through the placenta. It could 
potentially influence the health of the baby or adversely influence the course of the pregnancy. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modigraf passes into breast milk. Therefore, you should not breast-feed whilst using Modigraf. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you feel dizzy or sleepy, or have problems seeing clearly 
after taking Modigraf. These effects are more frequent if you also drink alcohol. 
Modigraf contains lactose and sodium  
Modigraf contains lactose (milk sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per sachet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Modigraf 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. Modigraf should be prescribed by doctors trained to treat transplant patients and 
experienced in the use of medicines that control the body’s immune system (immunosuppressants). 
Make sure that you receive the same tacrolimus medicine every time you collect your prescription, 
unless your transplant specialist has agreed to change to a different tacrolimus medicine.  
This medicine should be taken twice a day. If the physical appearance has changed from the normal 
white granules, or if dose instructions have changed, speak to your doctor or pharmacist as soon as 
possible to make sure that you have the right medicine.  
The starting dose to prevent the rejection of your transplanted organ will be determined by your doctor 
calculated according to your body weight. Initial doses just after transplantation will generally be in 
the range of 0.075 - 0.30 mg per kg body weight per day depending on the transplanted organ. When 
treating rejection, these same doses may be used. 
Your dose depends on your general condition and on which other immunosuppressive medicines you 
are taking.  
Children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents will receive doses of Modigraf calculated in the same way as adults. In 
general children need higher doses per kg of body weight to achieve the same effective levels in the 
blood as adults. 
Following the initiation of your treatment with Modigraf, frequent blood tests will be taken by your 
doctor to define the correct dose and to adjust the dose from time to time. Your doctor will usually 
reduce your Modigraf dose once your condition has stabilised. Your doctor will tell you exactly how 
many sachets to take. 
You will need to take Modigraf every day as long as you need immunosuppression to prevent rejection 
of your transplanted organ. You should keep in regular contact with your doctor.  
Modigraf is taken orally twice daily, usually in the morning and evening. Take Modigraf on an empty 
stomach or 2 to 3 hours after a meal. Wait at least 1 hour until the next meal.  
How to prepare the Modigraf sachets for use?  
Your doctor will advise you on the number of sachets that you need to open and the volume of water 
that is required to make a suspension. For accurate measuring the volume of water you can use a 
syringe or graduated cylinder.  
Pour the prescribed volume of water (at room temperature) into a glass or cup, up to a maximum of 
50 ml. Place the cup with water on a stable surface. Do not use cups or spoons that are made of PVC 
(polyvinylchloride) to take Modigraf because the active substance in Modigraf may stick to PVC.  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carefully open the prescribed number of sachets, e.g. with a pair of scissors at the point indicated with 
an arrow. Hold the opened sachet between thumb and index finger above the cup with the open side of 
the sachet facing downwards. Gently tap on the closed end of the sachet and pour the contents of each 
sachet into the glass or cup containing the water. Do not use any utensils or liquids to empty the 
sachet. If you follow these instructions, you will get the right amount of granules from the sachet. It is 
normal that some granules stay behind; the sachet was designed that way.  
Stir, or swirl gently until the granules have been suspended completely. The suspension can be drawn 
up with a syringe or swallowed directly by the patient. The liquid has a sweet taste. Rinse the glass or 
cup once with the same amount of water and drink this, too. The liquid should be drunk immediately 
after preparation. 
If you take more Modigraf than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too much Modigraf, contact your doctor or nearest hospital emergency 
department immediately. 
If you forget to take Modigraf 
Do not take a double dose to make up for forgotten individual doses.  
If you have forgotten to take your Modigraf, wait until it is time for the next dose, and then continue as 
before. 
If you stop taking Modigraf 
Stopping your treatment with Modigraf may increase the risk of rejection of your transplanted organ.  
Do not stop your treatment unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Modigraf reduces your body’s defense mechanism (immune system), which will not be as good at 
fighting infections. Therefore, you may be more prone to infections while you are taking Modigraf.  
Some infections could be serious or fatal and may include infections caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, 
parasites, or other infections.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you get signs of an infection including: 
- 
Fever, cough, sore throat, feeling weak or generally unwell 
- 
Memory loss, trouble thinking, difficulty walking or loss of vision - these may be due to a very 
rare, serious brain infection, which can be fatal (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy or 
PML) 
Severe effects may occur, including allergic and anaphylactic reactions (a very serious type of allergic 
reaction with fainting and difficulty breathing, which needs immediate medical attention). Benign and 
malignant tumours have been reported following Modigraf treatment.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you have or suspect you may have any of the following serious 
side effects: 
Serious common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
-  Gastrointestinal perforation: strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, 
such as chills, fever, nausea or vomiting. 
Insufficient function of your transplanted organ. 
- 
-  Blurred vision. 
Serious uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
-  Thrombotic microangiopathy (damage to the smallest blood vessels) including haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome, a condition with the following symptoms: low or no urine output (acute 
renal failure), extreme tiredness, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) and abnormal 
bruising or bleeding and signs of infection.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
-  Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura: a condition involving damage to the smallest blood 
vessels and characterised by fever and bruising under the skin that may appear as red pinpoint 
dots, with or without unexplained extreme tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes 
(jaundice), with symptoms of acute renal failure (low or no urine output), vision loss and 
seizures.  
-  Toxic epidermal necrolysis: erosion and blistering of skin or mucous membranes, red swollen 
skin that can detach in large parts of the body.  
-  Blindness. 
Serious very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
-  Stevens-Johnson syndrome: unexplained widespread skin pain, facial swelling, serious illness 
with blistering of skin, mouth, eyes and genitals, hives, tongue swelling, red or purple skin 
rash that spreads, skin shedding.   
-  Torsades de pointes: change in the heart frequency that can be accompanied or not of 
symptoms, such as chest pain (angina), faint, vertigo or nausea, palpitations (feeling the 
heartbeat) and difficulty breathing. 
Serious side effects - frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
-  Opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal): prolonged diarrhea, fever and 
sore throat.  
-  Benign and malignant tumours have been reported following treatment as a result of 
immunosuppression.  
-  Cases of pure red cell aplasia (a very severe reduction in red blood cell counts), haemolytic 
anaemia (decreased number of red blood cells due to abnormal breakdown accompanied with 
tiredness) and febrile neutropenia (a decrease in the type of white blood cells which fight 
infection, accompanied by fever) have been reported. It is not known exactly how often these 
side effects occur. You may have no symptoms or depending on the severity of the condition, 
you may feel: fatigue, apathy, abnormal paleness of the skin (pallor), shortness of breath, 
dizziness, headache, chest pain and coldness in hands and feet. 
-  Cases of agranulocytosis (a severely lowered number of white blood cells accompanied with 
ulcers in the mouth, fever and infection(s)). You may have no symptoms or you may feel 
sudden fever, rigors and sore throat. 
-  Allergic and anaphylactic reactions with the following symptoms: a sudden itchy rash (hives), 
swelling of hands, feet, ankle, face, lips, mouth or throat (which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing) and you may feel you are going to faint.  
-  Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES): headache, confusion, mood changes, 
fits, and disturbances of your vision. These could be signs of a disorder known as posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome, which has been reported in some patients treated with 
tacrolimus. 
-  Optic neuropathy (abnormality of the optic nerve): problems with your vision such as blurred 
vision, changes in colour vision, difficulty in seeing detail or restriction of your field of vision. 
The side effects listed below may also occur after receiving Modigraf and could be serious: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Increased blood sugar, diabetes mellitus, increased potassium in the blood  
Difficulty in sleeping  
Trembling, headache  
Increased blood pressure 
Liver function tests abnormal  
Diarrhoea, nausea  
Kidney problems  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Reduction in blood cell counts (platelets, red or white blood cells), increase in white blood cell 
counts, changes in red blood cell counts (seen in blood tests)  
Reduced magnesium, phosphate, potassium, calcium or sodium in the blood, fluid overload, 
increased uric acid or lipids in the blood, decreased appetite, increased acidity of the blood, 
other changes in the blood salts (seen in blood tests)  
Anxiety symptoms, confusion and disorientation, depression, mood changes, nightmare, 
hallucination, mental disorders  
Fits, disturbances in consciousness, tingling and numbness (sometimes painful) in the hands and 
feet, dizziness, impaired writing ability, nervous system disorders  
Increased sensitivity to light, eye disorders  
Ringing sound in your ears  
Reduced blood flow in the heart vessels, faster heartbeat  
Bleeding, partial or complete blocking of blood vessels, reduced blood pressure  
Shortness in breath, changes in the lung tissue, collection of liquid around the lung, 
inflammation of the throat, cough, flu-like symptoms  
Inflammations or ulcers causing abdominal pain or diarrhoea, bleeding in the stomach, 
inflammations or ulcers in the mouth, collection of fluid in the belly, vomiting, abdominal pains, 
indigestion, constipation, flatulence, bloating, loose stools, stomach problems  
Bile duct disorders, yellowing of the skin due to liver problems, liver tissue damage and 
inflammation of the liver  
Itching, rash, hair loss, acne, increased sweating  
Pain in joints, limbs, back and feet, muscle spasms  
Insufficient function of the kidneys, reduced production of urine, impaired or painful urination  
General weakness, fever, collection of fluid in your body, pain and discomfort, increase of the 
enzyme alkaline phosphatase in your blood, weight gain, feeling of temperature disturbed  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Changes in blood clotting, reduction in the number of all types of blood cells (seen in blood 
tests)  
Dehydration 
Reduced protein or sugar in the blood, increased phosphate in the blood  
Coma, bleeding in the brain, stroke, paralysis, brain disorder, speech and language 
abnormalities, memory problems  
Opacity of the eye lens 
Impaired hearing  
Irregular heartbeat, stop of heartbeat, reduced performance of your heart, disorder of the heart 
muscle, enlargement of the heart muscle, stronger heartbeat, abnormal ECG, heart rate and pulse 
abnormal  
Blood clot in a vein of a limb, shock  
Difficulties in breathing, respiratory tract disorders, asthma  
Obstruction of the gut, increased blood level of the enzyme amylase, reflux of stomach content 
in your throat, delayed emptying of the stomach  
Inflammation of the skin, burning sensation in the sunlight  
Joint disorders  
Inability to urinate, painful menstruation and abnormal menstrual bleeding  
-  
-  
-  
-   Multiple organ failure, flu-like illness, increased sensitivity to heat and cold, feeling of pressure 
on your chest, jittery or abnormal feeling, increase of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase in your 
blood, weight loss  
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people):  
Small bleedings in your skin due to blood clots  
-  
Increased muscle stiffness  
-  
Deafness  
-  
Collection of fluid around the heart  
-  
Acute breathlessness  
-  
Cyst formation in your pancreas  
-  
40 
 
 
 
-  
-  
-  
Problems with blood flow in the liver  
Increased hairiness  
Thirst, fall, feeling of tightness in your chest, decreased mobility, ulcer  
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people):  
-   Muscular weakness  
Abnormal heart scan  
-  
Liver failure 
-  
Painful urination with blood in the urine  
-  
Increase of fat tissue  
-  
Children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents may experience the same side effects as adults. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Modigraf 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and sachet after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
After preparation, the suspension should be taken immediately. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Modigraf contains 
-  
The active substance is tacrolimus.  
Each sachet of Modigraf 0.2 mg granules contains 0.2 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate).  
Each sachet of Modigraf 1 mg granules contains 1 mg of tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
The other ingredients are: lactose monohydrate, hypromellose (E464) and croscarmellose 
sodium (E468). 
-  
What Modigraf looks like and contents of the pack 
Modigraf granules for oral suspension are white granules supplied in sachets. 
Packs containing 50 sachets are available. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
Sylviusweg 62 
2333 BE Leiden 
Netherlands  
Manufacturer 
Astellas Ireland Co. Ltd.  
Killorglin  
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Kerry, V93FC86  
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Astellas Pharma B.V. Branch 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 5580710 
България 
Астелас Фарма ЕООД  
Teл.: + 359 2 862 53 72 
Česká republika 
Astellas Pharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 221 401 500 
Danmark 
Astellas Pharma a/s 
Tlf: + 45 43 430355 
Deutschland 
Astellas Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 49 (0)89 454401 
Eesti 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +372 6 056 014 
Ελλάδα 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 8189900 
España 
Astellas Pharma S.A. 
Tel: + 34 91 4952700 
France 
Astellas Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 55917500 
Hrvatska 
Astellas d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 670 01 02 
Ireland 
Astellas Pharma Co. Ltd. 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4671555 
Ísland 
Vistor hf 
Sími: + 354 535 7000  
Lietuva 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +370 37 408 681 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Astellas Pharma B.V. Branch 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 5580710 
Magyarország 
Astellas Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 577 8200 
Malta 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Tel: +30 210 8189900 
Nederland 
Astellas Pharma B.V. 
Tel: + 31 (0)71 5455745 
Norge 
Astellas Pharma  
Tlf: + 47 66 76 46 00 
Österreich 
Astellas Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 8772668 
Polska 
Astellas Pharma Sp.z.o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 225451 111 
Portugal 
Astellas Farma, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 4401320 
România 
S.C.Astellas Pharma SRL 
Tel: +40 (0)21 361 04 95 
Slovenija 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0) 14011 400 
Slovenská republika 
Astellas Pharma s.r.o.,  
Tel: +421 2 4444 2157 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Astellas Pharma S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 02 921381 
Κύπρος 
Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 210 8189900 
Latvija 
Astellas Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +371 67 619365 
This leaflet was last revised in:   
Suomi/Finland 
Astellas Pharma  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 85606000 
Sverige 
Astellas Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)40-650 15 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Astellas Pharma Co., Limited 
Free call from Northern Ireland: 0800 783 5018 
International number: +353 (0)1 4671555 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
