European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/306253/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Modigraf 
International Nonproprietary Name: tacrolimus 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000954 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 26 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 28 
2/30 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Astellas  Pharma  Europe  B.V.  submitted  on  27  November  2007  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Modigraf,  through  the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 19 July 2007. The eligibility to the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on 
demonstration of interest of patients at Community level. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application, for a known 
active substance. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication  prophylaxis  of  transplant  rejection  (liver,  kidney 
and heart) and treatment of allograft rejection.   
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any EEA country at the time of submission of the application. 
Modigraf  has  been  given  a  Marketing  Authorisation  in  Japan  on  12  January  2001  under  the  name 
Prograf granules. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Tomas P Salmonson 
Co-Rapporteur :  Romaldas Maciulaitis 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 27 November 2007. 
The procedure started on 26 December 2007. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
14  March  2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 17 March 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  April  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 April 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
17 October 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 28 November 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting 15-18 December 2008 the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  written  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
16 February 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 2 March 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  16-19  March  2009,  the  CHMP  based  the  applicant’s  written 
responses to the List of Outstanding  Issues considered that an oral explanation was no longer 
necessary. 
During the meeting on 16-19 March 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Modigraf  on  19 March  2009. The  applicant  provided  the letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 March 2009. 
3/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 15 May 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Transplantation is the most appropriate therapy for several conditions of end-stage organ failure, such 
as  renal,  hepatic  or  cardiac  failure.  Hepatic  and  cardiac  transplantation are  life-saving  measures  and 
are undertaken when conservative therapies have failed. The number of liver transplants performed in 
Europe  has  increased, reaching  plateau  of  close to  4000  liver transplants  performed  annually.  Renal 
transplantation rescues patients from the fate of chronic dialysis and improves patient quality of life to 
near  normality.    Transplantation  has  become  a  very  successful  procedure  with  success  rates  greater 
than 90% at 1-year post-transplant, regardless of the kind of transplanted organ.  
Modigraf  contains  the  active  substance  tacrolimus,  which  is  a  macrolide  lactone  with  a  potent 
immunosuppressive  activity.  Tacrolimus  has  been  in  use  as  an  immunosuppressant  in  a  variety  of 
organ transplantation settings since 1989; there is extensive existing therapeutic experience with the 
substance.   
Modigraf is a granule formulation of tacrolimus, as 0.2 mg and 1 mg sachets. The composition of the 
granule formulation is based on the composition of the intermediate granule formulation which is used 
in the manufacture of the established immediate release capsule formulation of Prograf capsules 0.5, 1 
and  5  mg.  A  granule  formulation  was  launched  in  Japan  2001  for  use  in  paediatric  and  adult  solid 
organ transplantations. These granules are identical to those in the present application.  
In  lack  of  an  approved  oral  formulation  suitable  for  children  and  for  seriously  ill  adults  with 
difficulties  to  swallow  capsules,  there  has  been  a  widespread  off-label  clinical  practice  to  break  the 
Prograf  capsules  and  use  the  granules.  The  granules  have  been  used  for  preparation  of  a  water 
dispersion, for swallowing or for administration via a (non-polyethylene) nasogastric tube. 
In current clinical practice the oral formulations of available calcineurin inhibitors, cyclosporine and 
tacrolimus  are  generally  administered  on  a  twice  daily  basis.  After  having  obtained  marketing 
authorization for tacrolimus (capsules and solution for i.v. infusion), the company engaged in therapy 
optimisation for paediatric patients, investigating combination therapies, aiming for steroid-avoidance 
and side-effect minimization strategies, as well as in development in a dosage formulation suitable for 
small children unable to swallow intact capsules. To this end an oral granule formulation of tacrolimus 
for suspension was developed by the Applicant to provide a dosing formulation suitable for paediatric 
transplant  recipients,  and  to  provide  a  formulation  that  allows  fine  dose  adjustments.  This  granule 
formulation was approved and launched in Japan in 2001. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tacrolimus is a product of fermentation of Streptomyces tsukubaensis, which is not yet subject of a 
pharmacopoeial monograph, Ph.Eur. or other national pharmacopoeia. Its chemical name is (-)-(1R, 9S, 
12S, 13R, 14S, 17R, 18E, 21S, 23S, 24R, 25S, 27R)-17-Allyl-1, 14-dihydroxy-12-[(E)-2[(1R, 3R, 4R)-4-hydroxy-
3-methoxycyclohexyl]-1-methylvinyl]-23,  25-dimethoxy-13,  19,  21,  27-tetramethyl-11,  28-dioxa-4-azatricyclo-
[22.3.1.04.9]  octacos-18-ene-2,3,10,16-tetrone  hydrate  corresponding 
the  molecular  formula  of 
C44H69NO12 · H2O and having a Relative Molecular Mass of 822. 
Tacrolimus appears as white crystals or crystalline powder. Tacrolimus contains one water molecule 
as a water of crystallization, and does not intake or release any water under atmospheric conditions. 
Tacrolimus  drug  substance  is  practically  insoluble  in  water  and  in  hexane,  freely  soluble  in  ethanol 
and very soluble in methanol. The partition coefficient in n-octanol/water system is greater than 1000. 
It  does  not  display  polymorphism  and  neither  any  solvates  have  been  observed.  In  the  solid  state 
tacrolimus exists as one conformer, cis-form. 
to 
4/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
• 
Manufacture 
Tacrolimus  is  obtained  by  fermentation  in  line  with  Ph.Eur.’s  General  Monograph  on  "Products  of 
Fermentation”. Since 1988, three methods have been developed and used, i.e. Process I and Methods I 
and II, in order to improve productivity. The clinical and stability batches were manufactured by the 
original manufacturing method, Process I, as well as by manufacturing method, Method I. Commercial 
batches  have  been  manufactured  by  Method  I.  While  Method  I  was  used  originally,  Method  II  was 
introduced in response to the need for larger batch sizes (approx. 15 kg versus 58 kg).  
Batch  analyses  confirmed  that  and  the  impurity  profiles  and  physical  properties  of  tacrolimus  drug 
substance produced by Method II are equivalent to those of tacrolimus drug substance manufactured 
by Method I.  
The  manufacturing  route  is  divided  into  two  parts:  a)  Fermentation  process  and  b)  Extraction  and 
purification  process.  There  is  no  intermediate  compound  involved  in  the  manufacturing  process  of 
tacrolimus drug substance. 
a) Fermentation process: Apart from the original strain Streptomyces tsukubaensis No. 9993, variant or 
mutant strains have been also introduced to increase tacrolimus yield in fermentation broth. A spore 
suspension  of  the  microorganism  is  prepared  and  stored  in  liquid  nitrogen.  The  tacrolimus 
fermentation broth is produced by a 4-stage scale-up fermentation process. The fermentation process 
was  optimized  by  modification  of  medium  composition  and,  modified  cultivating  conditions  and  a 
larger fermentor (Method II).   
b) Extraction and purification: The fermentation broth is extracted and filtered. Tacrolimus is purified 
by  chromatography  and  crystallized.  In  the  current  manufacturing  method,  the  introduction  of  new 
adsorbents  for  chromatography  and  new  devices  resulted  in  higher  efficiency  of  purification  and 
reduced  environmental  impact  compared  to  previous  methods  employed.  In  addition,  a  non-polar 
crystallisation  solvent  system  increased  the  efficiency  of  crystallisation  process.  However,  the  final 
crystallisation  solvent  system  at  the  final  step  remained  unchanged  to  obtain  drug  substance  of  the 
same  physicochemical  properties  as  that  manufactured  by  other  methods  utilized  in  the  past.  After 
final crystallisation, tacrolimus is dried and packaged.  
The  process  validation  results  of  both  fermentation  and  purification  process  for  both  methods  show 
that each production step is reproducible and well controlled within the pre-determined manufacturing 
acceptance  criteria.  The  impurity  profile  of  tacrolimus  obtained  at  each  purification  process  was 
evaluated.  The  results  of  analysis  demonstrate  that  the  purification  can  produce  highly  purified 
tacrolimus drug substance that meets all the specifications. 
• 
Specification 
The specification for the control of the drug substance includes tests for appearance, identification (IR, 
HPLC, colour reaction, optical rotation (USP)), heavy metals (USP), residue on ignition (USP), water 
(USP),  assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  bacterial  endotoxins  (USP),  microbial  limit  test 
(USP),  and  residual  solvents  (GC).  The  two  sets  of  solvents  from  the  different  methods  of 
manufacturing (I and II) are assayed under slightly different GC conditions. 
Batch results from 3 batches manufactured by the current method (Method II) and from a number of 
batches  manufactured  by  the  previous  method  have  been  reported.  All results  for  all  parameters  are 
well within the set specification. Medicinal products with tacrolimus as drug substance have been on 
the market worldwide for more than 10 years.  
• 
Stability 
Stability  tests  for  Tacrolimus  drug  substance  were  performed  on  three  pilot  scale  batches  and  three 
process validation production scale batches manufactured by the current manufacturing method. Long-
term and accelerated stability data the six above batches are available up to 36 months and 6 months, 
respectively.  Additionally,  long-term  and  accelerated stability  data  for  up  to  36  months  and  up  to  6 
months respectively for three production scale batches manufactured with the previous method were 
presented as supportive data All results at storage conditions of 25°C/60% RH over a period of up to 
36  months  met  the  specification.  No  significant  change  of  any  test  parameter  compared  with  initial 
5/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
values was detected. No new impurities or new degradation products were observed. After 6 months 
storage at 40°C/75% RH also no significant change of any test parameter compared with initial values 
was detected.   
Light  stability  studies  were  performed  on  the  tacrolimus  drug  substance  as  per  ICH  guidelines. 
Tacrolimus stored on a Petri dish under luminous light of 1000 lux over a period of 50 days meet the 
requirements of the specification, without detecting any significant change of any test parameter. 
In acidic and alkaline suspension conditions, the same major decomposition product was observed in 
both conditions. 
Stressed studies 
The degradation pathway of tacrolimus  and its related substances was investigated under stress testing 
conditions (high temperature, light exposure, oxidation, acid and alkaline treatment).  
Degradation  products  of  tacrolimus  at  high  temperature  (90ºC  for  10  days)  could  not  be  found  by 
HPLC,  even  if  the  decomposition  percentage  of  tacrolimus  proceeded  to  around  10%.  However, 
numerous  breakdown  products  were  observed  as  a  broad  band  on  TLC  chromatogram.  As  a  result, 
tacrolimus  were  assumed  to  produce  numerous  breakdown  products,  less  than  1%  each,  under 
extremely high temperature. 
Tacrolimus drug substance is very stable in solid state at accelerated stability testing (40°C/75% RH, 6 
months) as well as long-term stability (30°C / 36 months). None of degradation products was detected 
on HPLC chromatograms as well as on TLC chromatograms. It can be considered that the degradation 
products  formed  at  high  temperatures  would  not  be  generated  during  usual  conditions  for 
transportation and storage.  
Considering all the data presented, the proposed re-test period is deemed justified when the bulk drug 
substance is stored in the proposed packaging material and conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the development program was to develop an oral dosage form, which guarantees a fast and 
complete release of the practically water insoluble tacrolimus drug substance. 
During the development of the oral solid dosage form of tacrolimus nine formulations of three types of 
dosage  forms  were  studied  (aqueous  solutions,  non-aqueous  solutions  and  solid  forms).  The  solid 
dispersion  formulation  (SDF)  based  formulation  was  determined  to  be  the  optimal  formulation  of 
tacrolimus  for  oral  administration.  Since  this  SDF  was  already  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the 
established Prograf capsules, a complete pharmaceutical development program was considered as not 
necessary,  because  all relevant  investigations  on  the SDF  were  already  performed  and completed  in 
relation  to  the  development  of  the  established  Prograf  capsules  which  are  already  commercially 
available for years.  
Modigraf  tacrolimus  granule  formulation  is  based  on  the  composition  of  the  intermediate  granules 
(Solid Dispersion Formulation  or SDF) used in the manufacture of the marketed immediate release 
capsule formulation of Prograf 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 5 mg capsules 
The development of the appropriate oral dosage form was concentrated on increasing bioavailability 
of active ingredient through improvement of the solubility as well as the dissolution rate of tacrolimus 
from the formulation. This was achieved by dissolving the crystalline tacrolimus and then applying it 
in  amorphous  form  onto  a  carrier  mixture.  By  doing  so,  the  apparent  solubility  was  improved  by  a 
factor of 20 resulting from a dramatic surface enlargement. Since the drug substance is dissolved, the 
particle size of the tacrolimus drug substance needs not to be considered. 
A solid dispersion formulation was selected as an oral dosage form and the following excipients were 
used:  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose,  lactose  monohydrate,  croscarmellose  sodium  and  ethanol 
dehydrated.  
It was further demonstrated that tacrolimus existed as the amorphous form in SDF. 
The composition of clinical batches of tacrolimus granules which were used in clinical trials complies 
with the composition of finished product in pharmaceutical development.  
There  is  no  overage  of  the  active  drug  substance  or  any  other  ingredient  to  compensate  for  losses 
during the production processes for SDF or tacrolimus granules. However, in the filling process of the 
0.2 mg sachets there is an overfill of 1.4 % added to ensure the withdrawal of the labelled content of 
6/30 
 
 
 
 
0.2 mg tacrolimus from the sachet. The remaining amounts of tacrolimus granules in the sachets have 
been calculated and results justify the overfill.  
• 
Adventitious Agents 
Lactose monohydrate manufacturer has presented a TSE statement confirming the compliance with the 
relevant guidelines. 
Tacrolimus  drug  substance  manufacturer  Astellas  Pharma  Inc.  has  presented  a  TSE  statement 
confirming the compliance with the relevant guidelines. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  comprises  kneading,  drying  and  sizing  to  form  intermediate  granules 
which are then filled into the sachets. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  specifications  of the  drug  product at  release and shelf-life include  tests for appearance (visual), 
identity  (TLC,  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (Ph.Eur.),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
dissolution (Ph.Eur.), microbial limit tests (USP).   
Batch  results  are  given  for  four  production  scale  batches  of  each  strength  tested  according  to  the 
specification.  All  results  comply  with  the  specifications,  confirm  consistency  of  the  product  and 
support the specification acceptance criteria.  
• 
Stability of the Product 
The  major  stability  data  consists  of  18  months  data  at  long  term  conditions  for  one  batch  of  each 
strengths  of  granulae  with  the  current  intermediate  SDF.  No  data  at  accelerated  conditions  are 
available.  All  results  comply  with  the  specifications  after  6  months  at  long  term  conditions  25  °C  / 
60% RH. 
Supportive stability studies have been submitted for granulae including the former intermediate with a 
different particle size. Long term stability data (25 °C/ 60 % RH) up to 39 months is available for 3 
production scale batches of each strength. 6 months stability data at accelerated conditions (40°C / 75 
% RH) is also available. 
Generally, accelerated studies on the current granules should have been provided. However, the shelf 
life  of the current  granule is  considered sufficiently  supported by  the  presented data  and  the  overall 
experience acquired on tacrolimus.  
In use stability 
The  in  use  stability  of  Modigraf  in  mineral  water  and  tap  water  and  in  the  beverages  orange  juice, 
apple juice, milk and apple sauce has been examined. Suspensions were stored at room temperature 
(23°C to 28°C) under fluorescent light (about 500 lux) for 6 hours. All results for the parameters tested 
complied with the specifications after 6 hours. 
In conclusion the proposed shelf life and storage conditions are acceptable. 
7/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Modigraf  granules  for  oral  suspension  is  adequately  established.  Information  on 
development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory 
manner.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  is  considered  sufficiently  described  and  adequately 
supported  by  data.  Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development, 
manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out 
indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these 
in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in 
the clinic.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No  new  non-clinical  studies  were  presented  in  support  of  this  application.  The  submitted 
pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  studies  of  tacrolimus  have  been  fully  established 
during the development of Prograf/Prograft together with a non-clinical overview based on the expert 
report that had been submitted during national registration procedures for Prograf/Prograft in Austria, 
Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the 
United  Kingdom  [Expert  Report  on  the  Pharmaco-Toxicological  Documentation,  1993].  The 
document has been updated by mainly published information becoming available during the time after 
submission of national dossiers.  Most of studies were conducted according to the GLP standards. 
Pharmacology 
Immunosuppressive  drugs  such  as  ciclosporin  and  tacrolimus  act  by  inhibiting  calcineurin  activity. 
The  mechanism  of  action  seems  to  involve  binding  to  a  specific  protein  (immunophilin)  that 
subsequently blocks calcineurin leading to inhibition of translocation of the cytosolic activation factor 
(NF-ATc)  to  the  nucleus.  Calcineurin  is  a  phosphatase  that  activates  many  transcription  factors 
involved in cytokine transcription, including the upregulation of the mRNA for IL-2 in T lymphocytes. 
Tacrolimus  has  shown  activity  in  various  animal  models  of  organ  transplantation  including  heart, 
liver,  kidney,  lung  and  small  bowel.  The  ubiquitous  tissue  distribution  of  calcineurin  indicates  that 
inhibitors may alter a variety of biochemical processes apart form immunosuppression. This property 
may also account for adverse effects coupled to therapy with this type of immunosuppressants. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  new  pharmacokinetic  data  have  been  submitted.  Available  data  are  sufficient  to  adequately 
characterise the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus. These include low, variable oral absorption, the low 
bioavailability  being  attributed  to  extensive  metabolism  by  liver  and  gut,  P-glycoprotein  mediated 
drug efflux, and influence of intake of food. Tacrolimus is highly bound to proteins, shows rapid and 
extensive  distribution  with  high  amounts  detected  in  the  spleen,  mesenteric  node,  thymus,  small 
intestine,  skin  and  brown  fat.  Metabolism  is  extensive  and  proceeds  mainly  via  hydroxylation  and 
demethylation. Tacrolimus is excreted via faeces and unchanged drug accounted for less than 2 % of 
excreta. The compound has the potential to interact with other drugs and this issue is dealt with in the 
clinical section. 
Toxicology 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity 
No new repeat dose toxicity studies have been submitted in relation to the prolonged release form of 
Prograf. The toxicity of tacrolimus has been previously well established in relation to signs of general 
toxicity  as  well  as  the  identification  of  the  target  organs  of  toxicity  including  the  kidney,  pancreas, 
8/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eyes, nervous system and the heart as well as lymphoid organs. Over the past decade of clinical use 
with tacrolimus,  clinically toxicity  has  been associated  with  the  kidney,  pancreas/glycaemic  control, 
eye and heart in treated patients and appears consistent with the findings of the repeat-dose studies.  
• 
Genotoxicity 
The  genotoxicity  of  tacrolimus  has  been  studied  in  vitro  with  respect  to  gene  mutation  in  bacteria 
(Ames  test),  in  vitro  Chromosomal  aberration  in  Chinese  hamster  lung  V79  cells,  in  vitro  HGPRT 
gene  mutation  test  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  cells,  in  vitro  Unscheduled  DNA  synthesis  test  (UDS 
test) in rat hepatocyte cells, in vivo Micronucleus test in mice.  
The  studies  in  vitro  of  reverse  mutation  with  bacteria  showed  that  tacrolimus  even  at  the  highest 
concentration  (2000-5000  µg/plate)  did  not  inhibit  the  growth  of  any  bacterial  strains  (Salmonella 
typhimurium  TA  98,  100,  1535,  1537  cell  lines  and  Escherichia  coli  WP2  cell  line).  Under  the 
conditions of the test, tacrolimus did not induce gene mutation in any bacterial strains tested with or 
without  metabolic  activation  by  a  rat  liver  microsomal  fraction  (S9  mix).  Tacrolimus  also  did  not 
induce a concentration dependent increase in the frequency of 6-thioguanine resistant colonies, with or 
without metabolic activation by S9, and was, therefore, evaluated as negative in the in vitro HGPRT 
gene mutation test in Chinese hamster ovary cells. 
On  the  other  hand,  tacrolimus  inhibited  growth  of  the  V79  Chinese  hamster  lung  cells  at 
concentrations of 50 µg/ml or higher in the test without metabolic activation by S9, and the IC50 was 
about  70  µg/ml.  In  these  cells  tacrolimus  decreased  the  mitotic  index  dose-dependently  in  the  tests 
with and without metabolic activation by S9.  In cultured V79 Chinese hamster lung cells tacrolimus 
did not induce chromosomal aberrations. Moreover, it was negative in the in vitro rat hepatocyte DNA 
repair assay. 
The in vivo effects of tacrolimus on the chromosomes and the mitotic apparatus were investigated in 
the  bone  marrow  cells  of  mice  (Micronucleus  test).  This  test  was  negative  up  to  oral  doses  of  500 
mg/kg tacrolimus, the maximum feasible dose for gavage in mice. This dose is more than 1,000 times 
higher than the expected doses for clinical use. The number of polychromatic erythrocytes decreased 
in  mice  dosed  with 125  and  500  mg/kg,  pointing  to  tacrolimus  induced  inhibition  of erythropoiesis. 
Under  these  test  conditions,  tacrolimus  did  not  induce  chromosomal  damage  and/or  damage  to  the 
mitotic apparatus. 
In  conclusion,  the  results  of  these  experiments  indicate  that  tacrolimus  is  devoid  of  any  mutagenic 
property under the conditions of the test systems up to the limits of cytotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Despite reaching  the  maximum  tolerated  dose,  oral  carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  associated  with 
any carcinogenicity findings.  However the performance of topical application studies resulted in the 
formation of lymphomas. These findings in the topical application studies were associated with high 
systemic  exposure  levels  of  tacrolimus.  The  development  of  lymphomas  was  considered  to  be 
treatment  related  and  associated  with  the  immunosuppressive  action  of  tacrolimus.  Immuno-
suppression  with  various  agents  and  the  development  of  malignancies  is  a  well-documented 
phenomenon and appears to be virus related. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Animal data clearly indicate that systemic treatment with tacrolimus adversely affects male and female 
reproduction.  With  respect  to  reproductive  toxicity  and  carcinogenicity  findings  for  Prograf,  the 
granule  formulation  (Modigraf)  would  be  considered  to  represent  an  equal  safety  concern  and  the 
proposed wordings in the SPC are considered to adequately address these concerns.  
Exposure  to  high  doses  of  tacrolimus  resulted  in  poor  weight  gain,  reduced  mating  behaviour, 
prolonged  dietrus,  delayed  parturition,  increased  pre-  and  post-implantation  losses,  reduced  pup 
viability,  increased  F1  variations  and  malformations  (with  relatively  high  ventricular  septal  defect) 
9/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  no  effect  on  the  developmental  or  mating  parameters  of  those  pups  that  survived  to 
weaning.  The  maximum  non-toxic  dose  levels  were  considered  to  be  0.32  mg/kg/day  and 
0.1 mg/kg/day tacrolimus in rats and rabbits respectively. 
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reversible reduction of sperm counts 
and motility was observed in a rat study using subcutaneous administration of tacrolimus at doses of 1 
and  3  mg/kg/day.  This  was  further  supported  by  histopathological  changes  of  male  reproductive 
organs,  which  were  noted  following  repeated  administration  of  tacrolimus  to  rats  (Hisatomi  et  al, 
1996). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  use  of  tacrolimus  granules  is  not  expected  to  lead  to  any  significant  increase  in  environmental 
exposure.  However,  considering  the  currently  applicable  guideline,  the  potential  environmental  risk 
should be further addressed. This can be done as a follow up measure. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  pharmacology  of  the  granule  formulation  of  tacrolimus  (Modigraf)  is  based  on  the 
pharmacological data which were obtained during development of its hard capsules and solution for 
infusion  which  as  Prograf/Prograft  has  been  approved  for  clinical  use  in  many  countries,  including 
most EEA states.  
The toxicity of tacrolimus both pre-clinical and clinical has previously been well established with the 
organs of toxicity identified. The proposed new formulation would not be considered to result in any 
new toxicity concerns. 
Animal data clearly indicate that systemic treatment with tacrolimus adversely affects male and female 
reproduction.  With  respect  to  reproductive  toxicity  (and  carcinogenicity)  findings  for  Prograf,  the 
granule  formulation  (Modigraf)  would  be  considered  to  represent  an  equal  safety  concern  and  the 
proposed wordings in the SPC are considered to adequately address these concerns. 
The potential environmental risk should be further addressed (FUM).  
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The  Clinical  trials  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  Studies 
conducted  before  1996  were  performed  according  to  regional  clinical  practice  requirements  at  that 
time. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption 
In  man,  tacrolimus  has  been  shown  to  be  able  to  be  absorbed  throughout  the  gastrointestinal  tract. 
Following oral administration of capsules Cmax of tacrolimus in blood are achieved in approximately 
1 - 3 hours. In some patients, tacrolimus appears to be continuously absorbed over a prolonged period 
yielding a relatively flat absorption profile. The mean oral bioavailability of tacrolimus is in the range 
of  20%  -  25%.  After  oral  administration  (0.30  mg/kg/day)  to  liver  transplant  patients,  steady-state 
concentrations  were achieved  within  3  days  in  the  majority  of  patients.  In  healthy  subjects,  0.5  mg,  
10/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 mg and 5 mg hard capsules have been shown to be bioequivalent, when administered as equivalent 
dose. The rate and extent of absorption of tacrolimus is greatest under fasted conditions. The presence 
of food decreases both rate and extent of absorption of tacrolimus, the effect being most pronounced 
after  a  high-fat  meal.  The  effect  of  a  high-carbohydrate  meal  is  less  pronounced.  In  stable  liver 
transplant  patients,  the  oral  bioavailability  was  reduced  when  it  was  administered  after  a  meal  of 
moderate fat (34% of calories) content. Decreases in AUC (27%) and Cmax (50%), and an increase in 
Tmax  (173%)  in  whole  blood  were  evident.  In  a  study  of  stable  renal  transplant  patients  who  were 
administered  tacrolimus  immediately  after  a  standard  continental  breakfast  the  effect  on  oral 
bioavailability  was  less  pronounced.  Decreases  in  AUC  (2  to  12%)  and  Cmax  (15  to  38%),  and  an 
increase in Tmax (38 to 80%) in whole blood were evident. 
Bile flow does not influence the absorption. A strong correlation exists between AUC and whole blood 
trough  levels  at  steady-state.  Monitoring  of  whole  blood  trough  levels  therefore  provides  a  good 
estimate of systemic exposure.  
• 
Distribution 
The disposition of tacrolimus after intravenous infusion may be described as biphasic. In the systemic 
circulation,  tacrolimus  binds  strongly  to  erythrocytes  resulting  in  an  approximate  20:1  distribution 
ratio  of  whole  blood/plasma  concentrations.  In  plasma,  tacrolimus  is  highly  bound  (>  98.8%)  to 
plasma  proteins,  mainly  to  serum  albumin  and  α-1-acid  glycoprotein.  Tacrolimus  is  extensively 
distributed  in  the  body.  The  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  based  on  plasma  concentrations  is 
approximately 1300 l (healthy subjects). Corresponding data based on whole blood averaged 47.6 l. 
• 
Elimination 
Tacrolimus  is  a  low-clearance  substance.  In  healthy  subjects,  the  average  total  clearance  estimated 
from  whole  blood  concentrations  was  2.25  l/h.  In  adult  liver,  kidney  and  heart  transplant  patients, 
values  of  4.1  l/h,  6.7  l/h  and  3.9  l/h,  respectively,  have  been  observed.  Paediatric  liver  transplant 
recipients  have  a  total  clearance  approximately  twice  that  of  adult  liver  transplant  patients.  Factors 
such  as  low  haematocrit  and  protein  levels,  which  result  in  an  increase  in  the  unbound  fraction  of 
tacrolimus,  or  corticosteroid-induced  increased  metabolism,  are  considered  to  be  responsible  for  the 
higher  clearance  rates  observed  following  transplantation.  The  half-life  of  tacrolimus  is  long  and 
variable. In healthy subjects, the mean half-life in whole blood is approximately 43 hours. In adult and 
paediatric liver transplant patients, it averaged 11.7 hours and 12.4 hours, respectively, compared with 
15.6  hours  in  adult  kidney  transplant  recipients.  Increased  clearance  rates  contribute  to  the  shorter 
half-life observed in transplant recipients.  
• 
Excretion 
Following  intravenous  and  oral  administration  of  14C-labelled  tacrolimus,  most  of  the  radioactivity 
was eliminated in the faeces. Approximately 2% of the radioactivity was eliminated in the urine. Less 
than 1% of unchanged tacrolimus was detected in the urine and faeces, indicating that tacrolimus is 
almost completely metabolised prior to elimination, bile being the principal route of elimination.  
• 
Metabolism 
Tacrolimus is widely metabolised in the liver, primarily by the cytochrome P450-3A4. Tacrolimus is 
also considerably metabolised in the intestinal wall. There are several metabolites identified. Only one 
of these has been shown in vitro to have immunosuppressive activity similar to that of tacrolimus. The 
other metabolites have only weak or no immunosuppressive activity. In systemic circulation only one 
of the inactive metabolites is present at low concentrations. Therefore, metabolites do not contribute to 
pharmacological activity of tacrolimus.  
11/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Interactions 
Systemically  available  tacrolimus  is  metabolised  by  hepatic  CYP3A4.  There  is  also  evidence  of 
gastrointestinal metabolism by CYP3A4 in the intestinal wall. Concomitant use of medicinal products 
or herbal remedies known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of tacrolimus and 
thereby  increase  or  decrease  tacrolimus  blood  levels.  It  is  therefore  recommended  to  monitor 
tacrolimus blood levels whenever substances which have the potential to alter CYP3A metabolism are 
used  concomitantly  and  to  adjust  the  tacrolimus  dose  as  appropriate  in  order  to  maintain  similar 
tacrolimus exposure.  
• 
Effect of tacrolimus on the metabolism of other medicinal products 
Tacrolimus is a known CYP3A4 inhibitor; thus concomitant use of tacrolimus with medicinal products 
known  to  be  metabolised  by  CYP3A4  may  affect  the  metabolism  of  such  medicinal  products.  The 
half-life  of  ciclosporin  is  prolonged  when  tacrolimus  is  given  concomitantly.  In  addition, 
synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. For these reasons, the combined administration of 
ciclosporin  and  tacrolimus  is  not  recommended  and  care  should  be  taken  when  administering 
tacrolimus  to  patients  who  have  previously  received  ciclosporin.  Tacrolimus  has  been  shown  to 
increase the blood level of phenytoin. 
As tacrolimus may reduce the clearance of steroid-based contraceptives leading to increased hormone 
exposure,  particular  care  should  be  exercised  when  deciding  upon  contraceptive  measures.  Limited 
knowledge  of  interactions between  tacrolimus  and  statins  is available.  Clinical data  suggest  that the 
pharmacokinetics of statins are largely unaltered by the co-administration of tacrolimus. Animal data 
have  shown  that  tacrolimus  could  potentially  decrease  the  clearance  and  increase  the  half-life  of 
pentobarbital and antipyrine.  
New pharmacokinetic data in support of the present application  
Two relevant new PK studies have been presented in support of the application: 
− 
− 
a  single  Phase  I  study  (Study  95-0-001)  to  compare  the  bioequivalence  of  tacrolimus 
immediate-release capsules (Prograf) and tacrolimus granules in healthy subjects  
a  Phase  II  study  (FG-506-01-08)  was  conducted  to  assess  the  safety,  efficacy  and 
pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus granules in children undergoing liver allograft transplantation 
Study 95-0-001 was a single dose, four-period, four-sequence, randomised crossover, replicate design 
study.  It  was  performed  to  determine  the  bioequivalence  of  tacrolimus  granular  and  capsule 
formulations (1 mg) when administered as single, oral 5 mg doses. The pivotal bioequivalence study 
was performed already 1995, however, the applicant has reassured that the results are representative 
for the present formulations. 
Thirty-two  healthy  subjects  were  enrolled  with  30  subjects  completing  all  four  periods.  Tacrolimus 
was  administered  following  an  overnight  fast,  and  tacrolimus  whole  blood  concentrations  were 
determined  up  to  72  hours  post-dose.  Eight  subjects  returned  to  receive  an  intravenous  infusion  of 
tacrolimus to enable estimation of oral bioavailability.  
Following single dose administration, the capsule and granular formulation were not bioequivalent as 
the confidence intervals for the mean ratios of Cmax and AUC did not fall within the bioequivalence 
limits. The data was consistent throughout the study and the granular formulation resulted in 23 % and 
18  %  greater  means  for  Cmax  and  AUC,  respectively.  The  corresponding  90  %  confidence  intervals 
were 15-31 and 8-28, respectively. Intraindividual variability was approximately 15 % and 20 % for 
Cmax  and  AUC,  respectively,  for  both  formulations.  The  corresponding  figures  on  interindidual 
variability were 30-50 %. 
The observed difference in AUC between the two formulations in study 95-0-001 is unexpected and 
was to be explained at day 120. One possible explanation given by the applicant is that when Modigraf 
12/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granules are suspended in water, a small amount of tacrolimus is solubilised in vitro prior to intake. 
Thus,  when  administered  orally,  the  solubilised  tacrolimus  is  immediately  absorbed,  resulting  in  a 
more rapid rate of absorption with a higher Cmax and shorter Tmax compared to the Prograf formulation. 
This may also explain the higher extent of absorption of tacrolimus from the granule formulation as 
this scenario could also lead to a larger saturation of the first pass effect compared to what is observed 
following administration of Prograf. 
During the assessment rounds, the clinical relevance of the 18 % difference in AUC between Prograf 
and Modigraf, in the context of the proposed 1:1 mg switch, was thoroughly discussed. It is deemed 
that  difference  in  exposure  is  acceptable  given  the  rather  strict  and  informative  SPC  text  on 
conversion. Subjects will be under close supervision and monitoring of whole blood tacrolimus levels 
within a week will ensure a transient state, if any, on an incorrect dose. A phase IV study to monitor 
safety and efficacy in stable paediatric allograft recipients is suggested by the applicant as FUM. 
Study FG-01-08 was an open label, pilot, non-comparative study of tacrolimus granules in paediatric 
patients who were undergoing primary liver transplantation. Whole blood concentrations of tacrolimus 
were  determined  following  the  initial  i.v.  infusion  of  tacrolimus,  following  the  first  oral  dose  of 
tacrolimus  granules  and  on  the  last  day  of  hospitalization  during  steady  state  tacrolimus  granules 
dosing. Following the first oral dose, Cmax was 38.3 ± 40.9 ng/mL and Tmax was 1.1 hours. At steady-
state  the  corresponding  values  were  19.6  ±  11.1  ng/mL  (Cmax)  and  2.1  hours  (Tmax).  The  mean 
bioavailability of 22.8% observed in this study is similar to what has been observed in other studies in 
paediatric liver transplant patients. 
General PK considerations 
As  this  is  a  stand  alone  application,  the  PK  data  on  tacrolimus  from  the  paediatric  population  is 
considered  limited  and  the  Applicant  was  requested  to  provide  more  PK  data  from  the  paediatric 
population. Studies are now proposed by the Applicant as a FUM which is acceptable. Section 5.2 of 
the  SPC  has  also  been  updated  with  relevant  information  on  the  paediatric  population  based  on  all 
currently available data. 
Pharmacodynamics 
At  the  time  of  initial  approval  of  tacrolimus,  pharmacodynamic  data  were  sparse.  No  new  data  on 
pharmacodynamics  are  presented  with  this  application.  Tacrolimus  therapy  is  well  established  in 
clinical  transplantation  and  dosing  is  individualised  through  therapeutic  drug  monitoring.  Empirical 
therapeutic  windows  exist  for  blood  concentrations  in  different  clinical  transplantation  situations.  
Problems  foreseen  with  this  new  administration  form  relate  to  dosing  in  relation  to  the  approved 
administration forms.  
• 
Mechanism of action 
The key pharmacodynamic action of tacrolimus is inhibition of cytokine gene transcription.  It enters 
T-lymphocytes by nonspecific mechanisms, and binds to a 12 kDa cis-trans rotamase, termed FK506 
binding  protein  (FKBP12),  in  the  cytoplasm.    The  tacrolimus-FKBP12  complex  binds  to  the 
phosphatase calcineurin, and thereby inhibits the dephosphorylation of the nuclear factor of activated 
T-cells  (N-FAT)  preventing    translocation  of  N-FAT  into  the  nucleus  of  the  T-lymphocyte.    The 
inhibition  of  signal  transduction  pathways  prevents  transcription  of  a  set  of  lymphokine  genes,  in 
particular  those  encoding  interleukin  (IL)-1β,  IL-2,  IL-3,  IL-4,  IL-5,  IL-6,  IL-7,  granulocyte 
macrophage  colony  stimulating  factor,  tumour  necrosis  factor-α,  interferon-γ  and  the  gene  encoding 
the IL-2 receptor.  Tacrolimus suppresses T-cell activation, and the subsequent generation of cytotoxic 
lymphocytes,  thereby  down-regulating  processes  leading  to  acute  graft  rejection.    T-helper  cell 
dependent B-cell proliferation is also affected. 
13/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response studies 
No  dose-response  studies  were  performed  with  the  granule  formulation.  Since  the  development 
programme of the granule formulation is a partly based on the development programme of the capsule 
formulation, dose response studies with granules are not considered necessary. 
• 
Main studies  
The  applicant  has  submitted  tabular  listings  of  altogether  120  clinical  studies  with  tacrolimus,  plus 
study synopses and study reports. Separate summaries of clinical efficacy for kidney transplantation, 
liver transplantation, heart transplantation and for other organ transplantation, plus a common safety 
summary for all organ transplantation have also been submitted.  
Bioequivalence  has  not  been  shown  between  the  granule  formulation  and  the  capsule  formulation. 
According to the PK study 95-0-001, the granule formulation resulted in about 20 % greater means for 
Cmax and AUC.  
The  following  clinical  studies  were performed  in  paediatric  liver  transplantation  with  the  granule 
formulation:  
Study  FG-506-01-08  was  a  phase  I  de  novo  open-label,  non-comparative  two-centre  pilot  study  in 
pediatric  liver  transplant  recipients  below  the  age  of  14.  Of  the  28  patients,  17  were  evaluable  for 
pharmacokinetic analyses  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients 15 years or younger undergoing primary liver transplantation were included in the study.  
Treatments 
Tacrolimus was started within 6 hours after completion of surgery, as a continous i. v. infusion with an 
initial  dose  of  0.045  mg/kg  body  weight/24  hours.  After  the  initial  period  of  intravenous  therapy, 
tacrolimus  was  administered  orally  as  fine  granule  formulation  at  a  starting  dose  of  0.3  mg/kg/day 
divided  into  a  twice  daily  dose  regimen.  Initial  maximum  dosage  was  0.5  mg/kg/day.  Target  whole 
blood levels of tacrolimus were 5 to 15 ng/ml during the first month after transplantation and 5 to 10 
ng/ml  thereafter.  Patients  with  postoperative  renal  impairment  were  not  to  commence  tacrolimus 
therapy  or  to  begin  at  a  lower  dose.  Patients  with  early  poor  graft  function  were  not  to  commence 
tacrolimus  until  significant  improvement  in  liver  function  was  observed.  Anti-thymocyte  globulin 
(ATG) was used for induction in these cases. Azathioprine was administered to all patients according 
to  standard  practice  at  each  participating  center.  Standard  corticosteroid  protocol  was  used.  Anti-
rejection therapy with corticosteroids or ATG/OKT3 was given when needed. 
14/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Assessment schedule in study FG-506-01-08. 
The  study  protocol  gives  no  details  on  how  to  prepare  an  oral  suspension  from  the  granules. 
Otherwise, study design was reasonable in this pilot study. 
Objectives 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  tacrolimus  granules  in  children 
undergoing  liver  transplantation,  to  refine  the  dosing  schedule  in  children  and  to  compare  dosing 
based on weight with dosing based on body surface area. No data are given in the study AR on dosing 
according to body surface area.  
A  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  assessment  was  undertaken  to  evaluate  the  dosing  regimen  for  the  fine 
granule formulation, without a switch to the capsule formulation. 
Recruitment 
The  study  was  conducted  between  March  1996  and  April  1998  in  2  European  centres,  including 
respectively  15  (Catholic  University  of  Leuven,  Belgium)  and  13  patients  (Hopital  Kremlin  Bicetre, 
France). 
Statistical methods 
Data were analysed using descriptive statistical methods. A sample size of 20 patients was planned in 
this pilot study. 
15/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Withdrawal rate was low, 6/28 patients. 
Table 2.  Patient disposition, study FG-506-01-08. 
Donor source 
Graft quality was good. 
Table 3. Donor characteristics, study FG-506-01-08. 
16/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 4. Baseline demographics, study FG-506-01-08. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Incidence of rejection was not higher than expected; all rejections were steroid-sensitive. Patient and 
graft  survival  were  satisfying  in  this  small  study  in  small  and  severely  ill  children  undergoing  liver 
transplantation.  Three  patients  (11  %)  experienced  graft  loss;  all  three  cases  were  due  to  patient’s 
death. 
Table 5. Incidence of rejection, study FG-506-01-08, ITT population. 
Study FG-506-01-13 was a phase III de novo multi-centre, open-label, prospective, randomised 
comparative study in pediatric liver transplant recipients below the age of 16.  
This study compared efficacy and safety between a regimen of tacrolimus plus corticosteroids and a 
regimen with ciclosporin (CsA- Neoral), azathioprine and corticosteroids.  
17/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
This study was of 12-months duration and included 185 patients.  
Patients  aged  16  or  below  and  with  a  maximum  weight  of  40  kg  and  undergoing  primary  liver 
transplantation were included after informed consent. 
Treatments 
The recommended starting dose of tacrolimus was 0.3 mg/kg/day orally, divided into two equal doses. 
After  the  first  trough  level  measurement,  subsequent  doses  were  adjusted  to  maintain  the  following 
target blood trough levels 
• 15 ng/ml in the first two weeks (range 10 – 20 ng/ml) 
• 12.5 ng/ml during week 3 and 4 (range 10 – 15 ng/ml) 
• 10 ng/ml during month 2 and 3 (range 5 – 15 ng/ml) 
• 8 ng/ml during month 2 and 3 (range 5 – 10 ng/ml) 
Initial doses were administered via nasogastric tube. The sachets were emptied into a sterile container 
and mixed with a suitable amount of sterile water (maximum 50 ml) to produce a suspension which 
was drawn into a syringe and administered into the non-PVC nasogastric tube. The same quantity of 
sterile  water  was  again  drawn  into  the  same  syringe  and  sued  to  rinse  the  nasogastric  tube  and  the 
sterile container. The gastric tube was clamped for 45 to 60 minutes after dosing.  
The preparation of study drug suspension was made in line with the directions given in the proposed 
SPC for Modigraf. 
CsA was administered orally at a starting dose of 10 mg/kg/day, divided into two doses. Doses were 
adjusted according to therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to achieve the following target blood trough 
levels: 
• 300 ng/ml in the first two weeks (range 250 – 350 ng/ml) 
• 250 ng/ml during weeks 3 to 12 (range 200 –  300 ng/ml) 
• 150 – 200 ng/ml during months 4 to 12  
• 100 -150  ng/ml thereafter 
Corticosteroids were given according to the following schedule: 
During surgery 10 mg/kg intravenously 
Day 1 – 6 methylprednisolone iv 2 mg/kg/day 
Day 7 – 13 prednisolone 1 mg/kg/day once daily p o 
Day 14 – 20 prednisololone 0.75 mg/kg/day once daily p o 
Day 21 – 28 prednisololone  0.5 mg/kg/day once daily p o 
Month 2 – 3 prednisololone  0.25 mg/kg/day once daily p o 
Thereafter passage to dosing on alternate days and/or attempt to taper off corticosteroids, according to 
local practice. 
Azathioprine was administered only in the CsA group, at a dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day during the first three 
months after which it was administered according to local practice. Rejection treatment was either an 
increased  dose  of  tac  in  the  tac  group  and/or  a  full  course  of  corticosteroids.  Patients  with 
corticosteroid resistant rejections were to be withdrawn from the study and given therapy according to 
the sites practice.  
18/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The  objective  of  the study  was  to  investigate the  safety  and  efficacy  of  a  tacrolimus  based regimen 
using the fine granule formulation in comparison to a cyclosporine Neoral based standard regimen in 
children receiving a primary liver transplant.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  incidence  and  time  of  onset  of  acute  rejection.  Secondary  efficacy 
endpoints were the incidence and time to onset of steroid-resistant rejection, patient and graft survival 
rate and the cumulative corticosteroid dose over time. The safety endpoint was the overall incidence of 
AEs. 
Recruitment 
The study was carried out in 10 transplant centres in 6 EU countries from October 1997 to December 
2000. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation  was  to  be  performed  directly  before  the  first  administration  of  study  drug,  usually 
within 6 hours post-transplantation. In case of renal impairment the randomisation could be delayed up 
to 24 hours post transplantation. Screening was done on day 0 (day of transplantation) and study visits 
were scheduled at days 1, 5, 9, 14, 21, 30; weeks 6, 8, 10, 12; months 6, 9 and 12. 
Sample size 
Sample  size  was  calculated  to  be  200  patients  which  would  allow  a  difference  of  20  %  in  the 
frequency of acute rejections to be detected at the α = 0.05 level with a power of at least 80 % (based 
on a rejection rate of 50 % after 12 months).  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Compared  to  study  FG506-01-08,  a  higher  number  of  patients  (35  %  of  the  ITT  population) 
discontinued study medication. 
Table 6.  Study discontinuation, study FG-506-01-13, ITT population, number of patients (%). 
19/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 7. Patient demographics and baseline characteristics, study FG-506-01-13, ITT population, number 
of patients (%). 
Donor source 
Fewer patients than in study FG-506-01-08 got their transplants from a living donor: 
20/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8. Data on donor livers in study FG-506-01-13. 
Mean  tacrolimus  levels  were  comparable  to  those  in  study  FG-506-01-08  and  were  mostly  within 
target ranges. 
Outcomes and estimation 
More  acute  rejections  occurred  in  both  treatment  groups  in  this  study  than  in  study  FG-506-01-08. 
Altogether,  more  acute  rejections  and  significantly  more  corticosteroid-resistant  acute  rejections 
occurred in the ciclosporine treatment group during the study. More graft losses and more deaths also 
occurred in this treatment group. 
Table 9. Rejections, number of patients (%), study FG-506-01-13. 
21/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Summary of graft loss – number (%) of patients, study FG-506-01-13, ITT population. 
• 
Supportive studies 
Supportive studies in liver transplantation 
Study FJ-0201 was a 4-week phase II study on the safety, efficacy, usefulness and PK of the granule 
formulation,  performed  in  Japan  in  August  1995.  Patients  in  this  single  centre  study  were  switched 
over for a period of 4 weeks from tacrolimus capsules to granules, after a period of at least 4 weeks on 
capsules.  Five  patients  who  received  partial  living  donor  liver  transplants  were  included  but  two  of 
these 5 subjects were excluded due to GCP incompliance. Two of the remaining three patients were 
evaluable for PK analyses. One of the patients experienced a reversible rejection episode 22 days after 
switch. Two of the patients had impaired transplant function due to hepatitis. No PK comparison on 
the granule and capsule formulations can be made as PK parameters are given only after switch. An 
English translation of the synopsis of this study report was submitted.  
An English translation of the paper on the report on the Japanese studies FJ-0202 and FJ-203 was also 
submitted.  Study  FJ-0203  was  a  12  week  phase  III  open-label  two-centre  trial  to  study  safety  and 
efficacy in de novo liver transplant recipients. The study was started in January 1997 and included 8 
children,  aged  between  9  months  and  6  years.  One  patient  was  excluded  from  analyses  due  to  AEs 
necessitating intravenous tacrolimus administration for a longer period of time. 
Study FJ-0202 was a switch-over study from capsules to granules in two Japanese centres. The study 
included 6 patients, of whom one was excluded from all analyses because of lack to fulfil inclusion 
criteria.  Patients  were  from  the  age  of  three  and  a  half  years  to  64  years.  The  period  from 
transplantation  until  switch  from  tacrolimus  capsules  to  granules  was  from  4  months  to  5  years  9 
months. The study was performed during 12 weeks from February 1997. No rejections occurred at the 
time  of  switchover  from  capsules  to  granules. Trough  concentrations  did  not  markedly  change  after 
switch. 
22/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 1. Changes in tacrolimus blood trough concentration by each case at switchover, study FJ-0202. 
Supportive studies in kidney transplantation 
Study FJ-0211 was an 8 week Japanese study on safety, efficacy, usefulness and PK and included 10 
patients, aged 16 or below, of whom 9 were evaluable for PK analyses. In this single-centre phase III 
open-label, switch-over study, patients were switched from capsules to granules for at least 4 weeks on 
an  mg  to  mg  basis,  at  least  6  months  after  transplantation.  Graft  function  remained  stable  in  all 
patients. An English translation of the paper on the report on the two Japanese studies FJ-0212 and FJ-
0213  was  also  submitted.  Study  FJ-0213  included  patients  directly  after  kidney  transplantation. 
Patients were administered tacrolimus granules for 12 weeks. All patients received corticosteroids and 
some  patients  also  received  azathioprine  or  mizoribine.  Twenty-three  patients  were  included  in  the 
study,  21  received  study  drug.  Seventeen  patients  were  eligible  for  analysis.  Of  these,  15  got  living 
donor transplants and 2 got a cadaveric graft. Patients were aged 11.8 to 30.1 years.  They got i. v. 
tacrolimus directly after transplantation and thereafter received tacrolimus granules for the rest of the 
study  period.  One  patient  (5.9  %)  experienced  graft  loss  due  to  rejection  plus  infection.  Patient 
survival was 100 %. Rejection occurred in 41.2 % of the patients during the study period.  
Study FJ-0212 was a multicenter phase III de novo open-label two-centre switch-over study on safety 
and efficacy. Study duration was 12 weeks and the study included 22 patients in all ages from October 
1996 to October 1998. Study patients had undergone kidney transplantation at least 6 months prior to 
study inclusion, had a stable transplant and had been on tacrolimus for at least 12 weeks. Patients were 
then switched to tacrolimus granules for a period of 12 weeks. Ten patients, aged 11 to 56 years, were 
included in the study. One of the patients required an increased dose of tacrolimus, from 8 to 10 mg 
daily,  at  the  4th  week  after  the  switchover.  The  remaining  9  patients  did  not  require  any  dose 
adjustments after switch. No patient experienced an acute rejection at the time of switch.  
In conclusion, the Japanese studies are uncontrolled and included few patients. The results from them 
are provided as translated synopses/papers that are difficult to evaluate. PK data are not structured in 
the same way as PK data from studies 95 - 0-001 and FG-506-01-08 and are not directly comparable. 
Taken  together,  data  from  these  Japanese  studies  support  the  feasibility  of  treating  patients  with 
tacrolimus granules after liver or kidney transplantation and of switching from tacrolimus capsules to 
granules.  The  PK  relationship  between  the  two  tacrolimus  formulations  is  however  not  further 
clarified in these studies.  
23/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The applicant has shown that the tacrolimus formulation of fine granules is an appropriate formulation 
for  immunosuppression  after  kidney,  liver  and  heart  transplantation  in  adults  and  children.  As 
tacrolimus  is  an  active  substance  with  a  narrow  therapeutic  margin  any  approved  tacrolimus 
formulation should be of therapeutically equivalent value when used in the same individual. Optimal 
therapy in the clinical situation requires maintenance of appropriate systemic exposure (AUC) on an 
individual patient basis. Inter-individual variations in oral bioavailability are great, doses are guided 
by  frequent  therapeutic  drug  monitoring  (TDM)  using  trough  levels  as  surrogate  markers  of  AUC. 
Clinical  studies  have  shown  tacrolimus  granules  formulation  to  therapeutically  appropriate  for  the 
prophylaxis of rejection after allograft transplantation. In the bioequivalence study, the mean AUC of 
tacrolimus  was  18  %  greater  with  granules  then  with  capsules  (Prograf).  No  switch  study  from 
granules to capsules has been submitted by the applicant. 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
Worldwide  cumulative  exposure  to  tacrolimus  since  the  first  marketing  authorisation  in  1994  is 
estimated  at  about  1.5  million  patient-years  altogether.  During  the  most  recent  PSUR  period  April 
2006 to March 2007, the exposure to tacrolimus was 229.000 patient years worldwide. Altogether 91 
patients were randomised to the granule tacrolimus formulation in liver transplantation study FG-506-
01-13 and 28 patients received tacrolimus granules in liver transplant study FG-506-01-08. 
The granule formulation has been approved in Japan since 2001. The Summary of Clinical Safety does 
not  specify  post-marketing  data  for  the  granule  formulation.  However,  safety  data  reported  post-
approval for this formulation in Japan has not markedly differed from safety data reported for Prograf 
capsules.  
• 
Adverse events  
The most common AEs (fever, infections and abnormal liver function tests) were seen more often in 
the children in these studies than in an adult liver transplant population. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
Two patients died during study FG-01-08; one due to cardiac arrest associated with hyperkalemia and 
the  other  one  due  to  hemorrhagic  collapses.  Another  patient  died  due  to  suspect  intestinal  volvulus 
following withdrawal from this study due to a lymphoma-like reaction. 
Five  patients  died  in  study  FG-01-13,  2  in  the  tacrolimus  granules  group  and  3  in  the  CsA  group. 
Causes  of  death  were  (1  case  of  each):  cerebral  oedema,  multiorgan  failure  with  disseminated 
intravascular coagulation, hemorrhagic shock, sepsis and sepsis + multiorgan failure. Four patients in 
each  group  died  after study  withdrawal  (1  case each  of  cardiac  arrest  during  retransplantation,  graft 
failure, hyperphosphatemic coma, multiorgan failure, multiorgan failure secondary to surgical attempt 
of  repair  of  massive  biliary  fistula,  multiorgan  failure  due  to  adenovirus  infection,  sepsis  +  cardiac 
arrest and gastrointestinal haemorrhage secondary to gastric ulcer + aspiration pneumonia and sepsis).  
SAEs 
The  most  frequently  reported  SAEs  (regardless  of  relationship  to  study  drug)  in  the  two  studies  of 
tacrolimus granules in liver transplantation are shown below.  
24/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11. Most frequently reported SAEs, seen in ≥ 4 % of patients, in studies FG-506-01-08 and FG-506-
01-13. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Nephrotoxicity  is  a  well  known  adverse  effect  of  tacrolimus.  The  glomerular  filtration  rate  (GFR) 
decreased by month 6 compared to baseline and further decreased by month 12 in study FG-506-01-
13.  This  was  also  true  for  patients  in  study  FG-506-01-08.  Liver  function  tests  improved  markedly 
after  transplantation  and  approached  normal  values  for  study  completers  at  month  12  after 
transplantation. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Fever,  liver  function  test  abnormal  and  acidosis  are  more  common  in  children  than  in  adults, 
irrespective of immunosuppressive therapy, in the liver transplantation studies. It is not clear whether 
children are more susceptible than adults to cardiomyopathy as an adverse effect of tacrolimus. The 
figures  for  PTLD  given  by  the  applicant,  1.8  –  2.1  %  in  a  paediatric  transplant  population,  are 
comparable  to  those  from  other  sources.  There  seems  to  be  a  relationship  between  the  total 
immunosuppression  and  the  risk  of  developing  PTLD,  rather  than  a  risk  specific  for  any  single 
immunosuppressive agent.  
The ADR profile for tacrolimus in elderly patients does not differ from that in the general population 
for tacrolimus. 
No clinical studies have shown different ADR profiles for males and females.  
Severe hepatic impairment  may necessitate a reduction of the tacrolimus dose, as pointed out in the 
SPC. 
Tacrolimus  is  not excreted  by  the  kidneys  so  from  an  efficacy  point  of  view,  no  dose  adjustment is 
required  in  patients  with  impaired  renal  function.  However,  as  tacrolimus  is  nephrotoxic,  careful 
monitoring is recommended when tacrolimus is used in patients with impaired renal function.  
25/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Tacrolimus  has  many  clinically  important  interactions.  Interactions  of  clinical  importance  are  those 
between tacrolimus and medicines with the potential to inhibit CYP3A4 and thus increase blood levels 
of  tacrolimus  or  to  induce  CYP3A4  and  thus  decrease  blood  levels  of  tacrolimus.  For  instance, 
corticosteroids induce the CYP3A4 system and withdrawal of steroids can increase tacrolimus blood 
levels. Maintenance doses of steroids may reduce tacrolimus levels. The concomitant administration of 
CsA  and  tacrolimus  is  not  recommended  as  the  half  life  of  CsA  is  prolonged  by  tacrolimus  and  as 
additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. 
A  class  effect  of  immunosuppressives  is  their  potential  to  affect  the  response  to  vaccination. 
Vaccination  during  treatment  with  tacrolimus  may  be  less  effective  and  the  use  of  live  attenuated 
vaccines should be avoided.  
• 
Immunological events 
In 1999, 30 case reports of food allergy were evaluated. Twenty-one of these were from the US, 23 
were non-serious; all of the events were in paediatric liver transplant patients. The patients developed 
allergies to  food  ingredients.  In  all  cases,  the  allergy  was  controlled  by  anti-allergic  therapy  and  by 
avoiding exposure to allergens. Angioedema in 12 paediatric liver transplant recipients, aged 6 months 
to 2 years, under tacrolimus therapy was reported from a single French centre in 2003. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Two patients in study FG-506-01-08 withdrew from the study due to AEs: One patient was withdrawn 
on day 1 because of a duodenal perforation that made oral tacrolimus administration impossible and 
another patient was withdrawn from the study on day 1 because of an hepatic artery thrombosis with 
abdominal bleeding. In study FG-506-01-13, there were altogether 50 AEs resulting in withdrawal, 10 
(11 %) in the tacrolimus group and 38 (38.9 %) in the CsA group. The main reason for withdrawal in 
this study was graft rejection. Graft rejection was the reason for withdrawal in 21 patients (23.3 %) in 
the CsA group and 2 patients (2.2 %) in the tacrolimus group. All but one patient in the CsA group 
who had experienced a graft rejection were transferred to tacrolimus therapy.  
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Adverse  effects  from  tacrolimus  as  such  are  not  expected  to  differ  between  granules  and  approved 
tacrolimus formulations 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
26/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
and 
Important identified risks 
Hypertension 
Cardiac arrhythmias 
Neurological 
visual disorders 
Diabetogenicity 
Electrolyte changes 
Hepatic  and 
dysfunction 
Blood cell changes 
Coagulopathies 
Ventricular 
hypertrophy 
Cardiomyopathies 
Prolonged QT 
interval 
renal 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Serious infections 
and reactivation of 
pre-existing 
infections 
Diarrhoea 
Neoplasms 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Galactose-intolerance  Routine 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
27/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Pregnancy 
Lactation 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Important potential risks 
Exchangeability 
between granule and 
capsule formulations 
of tacrolimus 
Medication errors 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Phase IV study 
(F506-CL-0404) in 
stable pediatric 
allograft recipients 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
Warning in Section 4.6 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.6 of the SPC 
Description in Section 4.2 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Indications in Section 4.1 of the SPC 
Description in Section 4.2 of the SPC 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
Description in Section 4.9 of the SPC 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The toxicity of tacrolimus has previously been well established with the organs of toxicity identified. 
The currently proposed formulation would not be considered to result in any new toxicity concerns.  
The potential environmental risk should be further addressed (FUM).  
Efficacy 
The applicant has shown that the tacrolimus formulation of fine granules is an appropriate formulation 
for immunosuppression after kidney and liver transplantation. 
Safety 
Adverse  effects  from  tacrolimus  as  such  are  not  expected  to  differ  between  granules  and  approved 
tacrolimus formulations.  From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials 
and post-marketing have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics 
28/30 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the bioequivalence study, the mean AUC of tacrolimus was 18 % greater with granules then with 
capsules (Prograf). However, in keeping with clinical practice, switching from any oral formulation of 
tacrolimus  requires  frequent  therapeutic  drug  monitoring  (TDM)  using  trough  levels  as  surrogate 
markers  of  AUC  and  readjustment  of  dose  to  ensure  that  similar  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  is 
maintained.  Thus,  having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk-management  plan,  the  CHMP 
considered that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed this issue. 
• 
User consultation 
The user testing report submitted is adequate and in accordance with current recommendations.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
There  is  a  clear  value  in  a  tacrolimus  formulation  that  can  be  more  easily  administered  to  young 
children and to individuals having difficulties to swallow capsules. The applicant has shown that the 
tacrolimus  formulation  of  fine  granules  is  an  appropriate  formulation  for  immunosuppression  after 
kidney, liver and heart transplantation. The 0.2 mg granule sachets also provide a possibility for more 
exact dosing of the drug.  
Risks 
Adverse  effects  from  tacrolimus  as  such  are  not  expected  to  differ  between  granules  and  approved 
tacrolimus formulations. A problem arises at the switch from tacrolimus capsules to granules or vice 
versa  as  bioequivalence  has  not  been  shown  between  the  two  formulations.  In  the  pivotal 
bioequivalence study, administration of the granular formulation resulted in significantly greater mean 
Cmax  and  AUC  where  the  percent  differences  were  23  %  and  18  %,  respectively.  The  applicant 
advocates  that  a  conversion  from  tacrolimus  capsules  to  Modigraf  granules,  or  vice  versa,  in  stable 
allografts  can  be  done  on  an  mg:mg  basis,  irrespective  of  the  non-bioequivalence  of  the  two 
formulations. Considering the difference in exposure and the proposed 1:1 switch, there is a risk of too 
high or too low tacrolimus concentrations and subsequent unnecessary dose adjustments compared to 
if  a  dose  correction  constant  was  used.  No  relevant  clinical  conversion  studies  were  performed  in 
support  of  the  application.  Another  risk  with  the  product  is  that  there  may  be  problems  with 
medication errors with the granular formulation.  
Hence, a prospective study to give information on the frequencies of dose changes after conversions 
between  Modigraf  and  Prograf  and  on  occurrences  of  medication  errors,  has  been  proposed  by  the 
Rapporteurs  as  a  follow-up  measure  (FUM).    Clinical  study  F506-CL-0404,  (monitoring  safety  and 
efficacy in stable paediatric allograft recipients) has been amended accordingly. 
Balance 
There  is  an  unmet  need  for  a  paediatric  formulation of  tacrolimus.  In  terms  of  clinical  efficacy  and 
safety, the new formulation is essentially similar to the tacrolimus capsule formulation. The risk of too 
high  or  too  low  tacrolimus  concentrations  when  converting  from  tacrolimus  capsules  to  Modigraf 
granules, or vice versa, on a mg:mg basis has been thoroughly discussed. It is deemed that the risk of a 
transient period of time, if any, on an incorrect dose cannot preclude a recommendation for approval. 
This  risk  was  addressed  by  a  strict  and  informative  SPC  text  on  conversion.  A  phase  IV  study  to 
monitor  safety  and  efficacy  in  stable  paediatric  allograft  recipients  is  suggested  by  the  applicant  as 
FUM. A text on medication errors has also been included in the SPC. 
The overall risk-benefit ratio for Modigraf is considered favourable. 
29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
•  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Modigraf in the “Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult 
and paediatric, kidney, liver or heart allograft recipients. Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to 
treatment  with  other  immunosuppressive  medicinal  products  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients”  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
30/30 
 
 
 
 
 
