16 December 2021 
EMA/59278/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): tacrolimus (systemic formulations) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002839/202103 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01/04/2018 - 31/03/2021  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSURs for tacrolimus (systemic formulations), 
the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on cytomegalovirus infection from spontaneous reports (including some cases 
with a close temporal relationship) and in view of the plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers 
that a causal relationship between systemic tacrolimus and cytomegalovirus infection is at least a 
reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing systemic 
tacrolimus should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on infections from spontaneous reports and in view of the plausible mechanism 
of action, the PRAC considers that the product information of products containing systemic tacrolimus 
should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on interactions with flucloxacillin from the literature and in view of the plausible 
mechanism of action, the PRAC considers that pharmacokinetic interactions with flucloxacillin are at least 
a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing 
systemic tacrolimus should be amended accordingly.  
In view of available data on the pharmacodynamics interaction with trimethoprim and 
sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim from spontaneous reports and the literature, the PRAC considers that the 
pharmacodynamic interaction with trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim is at least a 
reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing systemic 
tacrolimus should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on nephrotoxicity and the risk of progression to chronic renal impairment from 
the literature, the PRAC considers that the product information should be updated to strengthen the 
warning relating to nephrotoxicity. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for tacrolimus (systemic formulations) the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing tacrolimus (systemic 
formulations) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisations should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/59278/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
