26 April 2019 
EMA/361691/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): naloxegol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010317/201809 
Period covered by the PSUR: 16.03.2018 – 15.09.2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for naloxegol, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Cumulatively 8 reports of gastrointestinal perforation, 2 of which were fatal were reported on Naloxegol.  
There  was  no  evidence  that  these  patients  suffered  from  terminal  illness.  In  both  of  the  fatal  cases 
naloxegol was used despite the patient already being at risk of gastrointestinal perforation. As patients at 
risk of gastrointestinal perforation were excluded from clinical trials the role of naloxegol in contribution of 
these events cannot be excluded. The PRAC considers that the warning in section 4.4 and section 4.8 of the 
SmPC  should  be  amended  to  reflect  that  cases  of  gastrointestinal  perforation  have  been  reported  for 
naloxegol, some of which have been fatal. As information on Naloxegol in relation to this side effect is now 
available  the  class  effect  wording  can  hereby  be  replaced.  Furthermore  a  reference  to  the  existing 
contraindication  on  gastrointestinal  obstruction  should  be  added  to  4.4  of  the  SmPC.  As  there  exists 
sufficient plausibility based on the mechanism of action of Naloxegol  ‘GI perforation’ should be added to 
4.8 of the SmPC with a frequency “not known” and it should be reclassified as an important identified risk 
in the RMP for Moventig. The package leaflet should be updated accordingly.   
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for naloxegol the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing naloxegol is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/361691/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
