EMA/254533/2019  
EMEA/H/C/001030 
Mozobil (plerixafor) 
An overview of Mozobil and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mozobil and what is it used for? 
Mozobil is a medicine used to mobilise blood stem cells from a patient’s bone marrow so that they can 
be collected and used later for transplantation in the same patient. 
Mozobil is used together with the hormone granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and is only 
for patients in whom collection of stem cells is difficult. 
The patients who are given Mozobil are: 
• 
• 
adults with lymphoma or multiple myeloma (types of blood cancer); 
children from 1 year of age who have lymphoma or solid tumours.  
Mozobil contains the active substance plerixafor. 
The number of patients that need mobilisation and collection of haematopoietic stem cells for 
transplantation is low and Mozobil was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 20 October 2004. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu304227. 
How is Mozobil used? 
Mozobil is given as an injection under the skin. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription 
and treatment should only be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience in treating 
cancer or blood disorders. After the patient has been given Mozobil, the patient’s stem cells are 
extracted from the blood and stored before transplantation. Because of this, treatment should be 
carried out in collaboration with a specialised centre that has experience with this type of procedure 
and can monitor the stem cells. 
Mozobil is used together with G-CSF. G-CSF is used on its own for 4 days before Mozobil is added. 
Mozobil is given 6 to 11 hours before the patient’s blood is taken and the stem cells are extracted. It 
can be used for up to 7 consecutive days. The dose depends on the bodyweight of the patient. 
For more information about using Mozobil, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Mozobil work? 
Mozobil is used to mobilise the stem cells from the bone marrow so they can be released into the 
blood. The active substance in Mozobil, plerixafor, works by blocking the activity of a protein called the 
‘CXCR4 chemokine receptor’. This protein normally helps to keep stem cells within the bone marrow. 
By blocking its activity, Mozobil allows the stem cells to be released into the blood, so that they can be 
collected. 
What benefits of Mozobil have been shown in studies? 
In two main studies involving 298 adults with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and 302 adults with multiple 
myeloma, more patients who received Mozobil achieved the target number of stem cells and had 
successful engraftment of stem cells (the cells started growing and producing normal blood cells after 
transplantation) than patients who received placebo (a dummy treatment). In both studies the patients 
were also receiving G-CSF. 
Among the adults with lymphoma, 59% (89 out of 150) of those receiving Mozobil achieved the target 
number of stem cells within 4 collection days, compared with 20% (29 out of 148) of the patients 
receiving placebo. Among the adults with multiple myeloma, 72% (106 out of 148) of those receiving 
Mozobil achieved the target number of stem cells within 4 collection days, compared with 34% (53 out 
of 154) of the patients receiving placebo.  
In a main study involving 45 children with lymphoma or solid tumours, 80% (24 out of 30) of patients 
who received Mozobil had at least a doubling of the number of stem cells in the blood, compared with 
29% (4 out of 14) patients who received standard mobilisation treatment alone. 
What are the risks associated with Mozobil? 
The most common side effects with Mozobil (which may affect more than 1 patient in 10) are 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick) and reactions at the site of injection. For the full list of side effects and 
restrictions with Mozobil, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Mozobil authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Mozobil’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mozobil? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mozobil have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mozobil is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Mozobil are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Mozobil 
Mozobil received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 July 2009. 
Mozobil (plerixafor)  
EMA/254533/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Mozobil can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/mozobil.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2019.  
Mozobil (plerixafor)  
EMA/254533/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
