EMA/553072/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004720 
Mulpleo1 (lusutrombopag) 
An overview of Mulpleo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mulpleo and what is it used for? 
Mulpleo is a medicine used to prevent excessive bleeding in adults with thrombocytopenia due to long-
standing liver disease. Patients with thrombocytopenia have reduced number of platelets (components 
in the blood that help it to clot), which can cause excessive bleeding. 
The medicine is for use in patients having an invasive procedure (a medical procedure that involves 
cutting into or puncturing the skin or inserting instruments into the body). 
Mulpleo contains the active substance lusutrombopag. 
How is Mulpleo used? 
Mulpleo is available as 3 mg tablets. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
Treatment with Mulpleo should start at least 8 days before the procedure and the recommended dose 
is 1 tablet daily for 7 days. 
For more information about using Mulpleo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Mulpleo work? 
In the body, a hormone called thrombopoietin stimulates the production of platelets by attaching to 
receptors (targets) in the bone marrow. The active substance in Mulpleo, lusutrombopag, attaches to 
the same receptors as thrombopoietin, helping to increase the platelet count. 
What benefits of Mulpleo have been shown in studies? 
In two main studies involving adults with low levels of platelets due to long-standing liver disease, 
Mulpleo increased platelet count before an invasive procedure and reduced the need for transfusions. 
1 Previously known as Lusutrombopag Shionogi. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                       
The first study, involving 96 adults, found that 79% of patients who took Mulpleo did not require a 
transfusion of platelets before their procedure, compared with 13% of patients who received placebo 
(a dummy treatment). The second study involving 215 adults found that 65% of patients who took 
Mulpleo did not require platelet transfusion before their procedure, compared with 29% of patients who 
received placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Mulpleo? 
Unwanted effects that occurred in studies involving patients taking Mulpleo were headache, nausea 
(feeling sick), portal vein thrombosis (a blockage in the blood vessel that carries blood from the 
intestines to the liver) and rash. Similar effects occurred in patients receiving placebo. 
For more information on the side effects and restrictions of Mulpleo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Mulpleo authorised in the EU? 
Studies have found that Mulpleo increases platelet count, thereby lowering the risk of excessive 
bleeding during or after an invasive procedure and reducing the need for transfusing platelets. 
Unwanted effects that occurred in studies are thought to result from patients’ medical condition and 
the nature of the invasive procedure for which Mulpleo was used.   
The European Medicines Agency decided that Mulpleo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mulpleo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mulpleo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mulpleo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Mulpleo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Mulpleo 
Mulpleo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 February 2019. 
Further information on Mulpleo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/mulpleo.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2019.  
Mulpleo0F (lusutrombopag)  
EMA/553072/2019  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
