European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Multaq 
International Non-proprietary Name: dronedarone  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001043 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................ 3 
1.1  Submission of the dossier ............................................................................................................. 3 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product............................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.1 
Introduction................................................................................................................................... 5 
2.2  Quality aspects .............................................................................................................................. 6 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 9 
2.4  Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................... 16 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance ...................................................................................................................... 40 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ........................................... 44 
                           2/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Sanofi-aventis submitted on 03 July 2008 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Multaq, through the centralised procedure under Article 
3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMEA/CHMP on 15 November 2007. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier:  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Multaq is indicated in patients with a history of, or 
current atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, for the reduction of the risk of cardiovascular hospitalization 
or death. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice or Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed and approved in the United States of America, Canada and Switzerland. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Dr. Pieter de Graeff 
Co-Rapporteur:  Prof János Borvendég 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 03 July 2008. 
The procedure started on 23 July 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
10 October 2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 10 October 2008. 
During the meeting on 17 - 20 November 2008, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 November 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
25 March 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 08 May 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 26 – 29 May 2009 the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues  to  be  addressed  in  writing  by  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 29 May 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
03 June 2009. 
                           3/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 11 June 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 22 – 25 June 2009 the CHMP agreed on a D196 List of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. The final consolidated D196 List 
of Outstanding Issues was sent to the applicant on 25 June 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  D196  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
25 August 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Final Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the D196 List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 07 September 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to Multaq  on  24  September  2009.  The  applicant  provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on 
16 September 2009. 
                           4/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Dronedarone (DRO) is an anti-arrhythmic agent belonging to the benzofurane class of anti-arrhythmic 
compounds  including  amiodarone.  DRO  demonstrates  electrophysiological  characteristics  belonging 
to  all  4  Vaughan-Williams  classes  of  anti-arrhythmic  compounds:  (1)  To  a  limited  extent  it  blocks 
sodium  (INa)  channels  decreasing  the  slope  of  the  depolarization  phase  (phase  0)  of  the  action 
potential  (Class  I  effect);  (2)  It  also  has  limited  non-competitive  α  and  β  adrenoceptor  antagonist 
properties (Class II effect); (3) Its primary activity is to block the outward potassium currents involved 
in cardiac repolarization at both the atrial and the ventricular levels, thus prolonging action potential 
duration (APD) and the refractory period (Class III effect); (4) Finally, it reduces on a limited basis L-
type and T-type inward calcium currents (Class IV effect). 
DRO  is  indicated  in  adult  clinically  stable  patients  with  history  of,  or  current  non-permanent  atrial 
fibrillation (AF) to prevent recurrence of AF or to lower ventricular rate (see section 5.1).  
The  recommended  dose  is  400 mg  twice  daily  in  adults.  It  should  be  taken  as  one  tablet  with  the 
morning meal and one tablet with the evening meal. If a dose is missed, patients should take the next 
dose  at  the  regular  scheduled  time  and  should  not  double  the  dose.  Treatment  with  Class  I  or  III 
antiarrhythmics  (such  as  flecainide,  propafenone,  quinidine,  disopyramide,  dofetilide,  sotalol, 
amiodarone)  must  be  stopped  before  starting  DRO.  Treatment  with  DRO  can  be  initiated  in  an 
outpatient setting. 
AF is the most frequent sustained arrhythmia, affecting 6% of people older than 65 year. The overall 
incidence rises with each decade; it is estimated that there are 2.2 million AF patients in the United 
States and several million in Europe. The number of patients with AF is expected to increase 2.5-fold 
over the next 50 years due in part to the growing proportion of elderly patients. Treatment strategies 
for  patients  with  AF  include  rhythm  control  and  rate  control.  This  epidemic  of  AF  has  important 
consequences, given the increased mortality and morbidity associated with this arrhythmia particularly 
due to hemodynamic and thromboembolic complications. AF is associated with significant morbidity 
causing  symptoms  that  include  palpitations,  chest  pain,  dyspnea  and  fatigue.  AF  may  cause 
tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy resulting ultimately in heart failure. AF is also a major cause of 
embolic  complications.  AF  is  the  most  frequent  arrhythmic  cause  of  hospitalization.  A  recently 
published study showed that 36.9% of the enrolled AF patients  were hospitalized for cardiovascular 
(CV)  reasons  during  the  1-year  follow-up  period.  CV  hospitalizations  integrate  information  from 
several  outcome  domains  (e.g.  hospitalization  for  cardioversion  or  further  AF  ablation  after  AF 
recurrence),  heart failure (e.g. hospitalization for acute heart failure), thromboembolic complications 
(e.g.  hospitalization  for  acute  stroke),  adverse  events  (e.g.  hospitalization  due  to  symptomatic 
bradycardia),  and  health  economics.  AF  is  also  associated  with  increased  and  premature  mortality. 
There are several causes of death. It can be due to the arrhythmia, but AF can also be a ‘marker’ rather 
than a cause of death, treatment can cause death, and last but not least death will at times be un-related 
to  AF.  In  conclusion,  patients  with  AF  or  AFL  are  exposed  to  an  increased  CV  morbidity  that 
translates  to  an  increased  risk  of  CV  hospitalization  and  CV  mortality.  Therefore,  the  therapeutic 
management of these patients should go above and beyond the treatment of their rhythm disorder and 
should  ultimately  aim  to  not  only  alleviate  their  symptoms,  but  also  improve  outcome.  None  of  the 
available pharmacological therapies aiming at rhythm or rate control has shown a clear benefit beyond 
electrocardiogram (ECG) endpoints.  
An initial application was submitted in June 2005 (EMEA/H/C/000676). This application was 
withdrawn  in  September  2006  at  Day  181  of  the  procedure.  During  the  assessment,  the  efficacy  of 
DRO 400 mg BID was shown as anti-arrhythmic in the rate and rhythm control in patients with AF, 
though  the  lack  of  actively  controlled  studies  precluded  final  assessment  of  its  antiarrhythmic 
properties.  The  main  concerns  of  the  CHMP  were  related  to  drug-interaction  profile,  the  lack  of 
actively-controlled  studies,  overall  safety  profile.  Comparative  data  are  important  for  an  appropriate 
assessment of benefit and risk and will allow better assessment on the clinical relevance of the effects 
on rhythm and rate control and also on various safety aspects, in particular ECG effects. Placebo or 
actively controlled safety data are necessary to allow a final assessment on the effect on morbidity and 
mortality.  One  survival  study  (ANDROMEDA)  was  carried  out  in  patients  with  a  recent 
                           5/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
hospitalization  for  a  severe  symptomatic  episode  of  CHF  (NYHA  class  III  or  IV)  and  with  LVEF 
≤35%II-IV  with  a  negative  effect  on  mortality.  The  benefit/risk  of  DRO  was  also  considered 
unfavourable  by  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  in  2006.  In  support  of  this  new  application,  the 
applicant submitted two new clinical studies: EFC5555/ATHENA (to investigate the assumption that 
the  management  of  AF/AFL  patients  with  DRO  versus  placebo  can  lead  to  reduction  of  CV 
hospitalization  and  death)  and  DIONYSOS,  which  is  an  actively-controlled  study,  to  evaluate  the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  DRO  versus  amiodarone  for  at  least  6  months  for  the  maintenance  of  sinus 
rhythm  in  patients  with  AF.  The  indications  the  company  applied  for  were  following:  DRO  is 
indicated in patients with a history of, or current AF or atrial flutter (AFL), for the reduction of the risk 
of  cardiovascular  hospitalization  or  death.  Clinical  trials  have  been  carried  out  according  to  general 
CHMP guidance documents.  
In  particular,  relevant  for  the  current  indication  is  the  EMEA/CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  on 
Antiarrhythmics (CHMP/EWP/237/95).  
2.2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Multaq is presented as film-coated tablets containing 400 mg of dronedarone hydrochloride (expressed 
as base) as active substance.  
The  other  ingredients  include  hypromellose,  maize  starch,  crospovidone,  poloxamer  407,  lactose 
monohydrate, colloidal anhydrous silica, magnesium stearate and purified water. The film consists of 
hypromellose, titanium dioxide, macrogol 6000, purified water and carnauba wax. 
The film-coated tablets are marketed in PVC/aluminium blister packs. 
Active Substance  
The drug substance is dronedarone as the hydrochloride salt and its chemical name is N-{2-butyl-3-[4-
(3-dibutylaminopropoxy)benzoyl]benzofuran-5-yl} methanesulfonamide, hydrochloride according to 
the IUPAC. This active substance is a new active substance, not yet described in any Pharmacopoeia. 
Dronedarone hydrochloride is a white to practically white, non-hygroscopic fine powder. It is 
practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble in acetonitrile, soluble in ethanol and freely soluble in 
methanol, in methylene chloride as well as in dimethyl sulfoxide. 
Only one crystalline form is known and it shows no isomerism. This active substance has none chiral 
centre.  
•  Manufacture 
The chemical synthesis of this new active substance takes place in three steps followed by purification 
(crystallisation) and milling. 
The manufacturing process has been adequately described. Critical parameters have been identified 
and adequate in-process controls included. 
Specifications for starting materials, reagents, catalysts and solvents have been provided. Adequate 
control of critical steps and intermediates has been presented. The active substance is purified by 
crystallisation and the crystallised active substance is finally milled in order to reach the desired 
particle size.   
Structure elucidation has been performed by infrared spectroscopy, ultraviolet spectroscopy, 1H NMR 
spectroscopy, 13C NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. The results of the elemental analysis are 
consistent with the proposed molecular formula. Definite proof of structure was provided by X-ray 
crystallography. 
                           6/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specifications  include  test  for  appearance  (white  to  practically  white  fine 
powder),  identity  (IR,  LC  and  chloride  reaction),  appearance  of  the  solution  (clarity  and  colour  - 
Ph.Eur.),  particle  size  (laser  diffraction),  impurities  (LC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  water  content 
(Ph.Eur.), heavy metals (Ph.Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur.),  and assay by HPLC.   
The  specifications  reflect  all  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  active  substance.  Furthermore,  the 
analytical methods which were used in the routine controls were described and their validations are in 
accordance with the ICH Guidelines.  
Impurities have been extensively described, classified as process related impurities and possible 
degradation products, and qualified with reference to toxicological studies. Residual solvents have 
been satisfactorily controlled in the active substance and their limits are in accordance with ICH 
requirements.  
Certificates of analyses for the active substances issued by the finished product manufacturer were 
provided and all batch analysis confirms satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed 
specifications from batch to batch. 
•  Stability 
The stability results from long-term (30°C/65%RH) and accelerated studies (40°C/75%RH) were 
completed according to ICH guidelines demonstrated adequate stability of the active substance.  
It was confirmed that the active substance is very stable when exposed to a variety of stressed 
conditions such as heat, humidity, oxidative conditions and light exposure. Based on the stability data, 
it can be concluded that the active substance is stable when stored in the original packing material. The 
results support the agreed re-test period without specific storage conditions. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
All information regarding the choice of the drug substance and the excipients are sufficiently justified. 
The particle size of the active substance is relevant for the finished product. Therefore, a specification 
for particle size has been set based on development work and the particle size distribution of 
bioequivalence and clinical batches. 
Two dosage forms were mainly developed for oral use: hard gelatin capsules (used for Phase 1 and 2A 
studies), tablet dosage form (used for Phase 2B and 3 studies) and tablet dosage form proposed for 
commercialisation at 400 mg strength. 
The bioavailability between the film-coated tablets used for Phase 2 B and the film-coated tablets used 
for Phase 3 studies were established. 
It was observed a high food effect during Phase 1 with the capsules; therefore, studies were performed 
to increase the absorption of dronedarone in fasted conditions. 
A wet granulation process was selected for the development of the tablet for industrial reasons, 
properties of dronedarone and because high dronedarone strengths were requested. 
Studies were performed to select a suitable solubilising agent in order to enhance potential for in vivo 
absorption in fasted conditions. Poloxamer 407 was the most effective among the surfactants tested 
and was selected for the tablet formulation. After several studies it was concluded that the formulation 
with poloxamer407 had the highest bioavailability in fasted conditions and reduced the food effect the 
most. Therefore, tablets containing poloxamer were developed and optimized for Phase 2 and 3. 
                           7/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
• 
Adventitious Agents 
Lactose monohydrate is manufactured from bovine milk. The supplier confirms that the milk used in 
the manufacture of the lactose is sourced from healthy animals under the same conditions as for 
human consumption. No other excipients of human or animal origin are used for manufacture of the 
finished product. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The proposed commercial manufacturing process involves standard technology using standard 
manufacturing process such as mixing, wet granulation, drying, sizing, compression and film-coating 
unit operations. Furthermore the equipment used is commonly available in the pharmaceutical 
industry. Critical process parameters have been studied for the following steps: granulation, 
compression and film coating. 
The manufacturing process has been validated by several studies at pilot and industrial scale for the 
major steps of the manufacturing process (granulation and drying end-point, compressibility and 
coating suspension) and is satisfactory.  
Accordingly the batch analysis data the medicinal product can be manufactured reproducibly 
according to the agreed finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The finished product specifications were established according the ICH guidelines and include the 
following tests: appearance, identification (LC, UV and titanium dioxide in tablet film-coating), 
uniformity of mass (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), dissolution profile, degradation 
products (LC), microbial limits (Ph. Eur.) and assay.  
All analytical procedures which were used for testing the finished product were properly described. 
Moreover, all relevant methods were satisfactorily validated in accordance with the CHMP and ICH 
guidelines. 
The batch analysis data obtained from the analysis of seventeen clinical batches, five stability batches 
and one production batch confirm that the film-coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly 
according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of the finished 
product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the ICH guideline. Three production scale batches 
have been stored at long term (30°C/65%RH) and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) conditions in the 
proposed market packaging. 
The following parameters were controlled: appearance, dissolution, assay, and microbiological 
contamination and degradation products. 
One production batch was stored under ICH photostability conditions and no significant changes were 
observed. It can be concluded that the finished product is not affected by the exposure to the light. 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture, control of the active substance and the finished product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in accordance with relevant CHMP and 
ICH. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of the finished 
product. Therefore, it can be concluded that the quality characteristics of the finished product are 
adequate and should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. There are no 
unresolved quality issues which may affect the Benefit/Risk balance.  
                           8/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Antiarrhythmic  agents  with  class  III  effects  (including  DRO  and  amiodarone)  are  considered  to  be 
effective  against  re-entrant  arrhythmias,  due  to  their  ability  to  prolong  the  action  potential  (AP). 
Unfortunately,  class  III  agents  in  general  share  two  unwanted  properties,  “reverse-use-dependency” 
and the ability to cause early afterdepolarizations (EAD) that may induce Torsades de pointes (TdP). 
Reverse-use-dependency (action potential prolongation only at slow heart rates and not at short cycle 
lengths) would reduce effectiveness against re-entrant tachyarrhythmias and increase the likelihood for 
the emergence of EAD  at  slow rates.  Also, amiodarone induces phospholipid accumulation in lungs 
and has effects on thyroid hormones levels. The anti-arrhythmic and haemodynamic effects of DRO 
were  assessed  by  a  wide  range  of  models,  using  different  animal  species,  including  basic 
pharmacological  characterization  (binding),  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  electrophysiology  (effect  on  action 
potential),  haemodynamic  effects,  potential  anti-adrenergic  effects,  anti-arrhythmic  effects  (many 
models),  pharmacology  of  main  metabolites  (SR35021  and  SR90154)  and  safety  pharmacology 
studies. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
DRO  has  been  found  to  possess  antiarrhythmic  properties  in  AF  and  in  ventricular  arrhythmias  in 
several species, in a wide range of experimental models. DRO is a multi-channel blocker with β anti-
adrenergic activities which confers to this new drug all characteristics of all four Vaughan-Williams 
classes  of  antiarrhythmics:  it  blocks  sodium  channels  (class  I  drugs),  shows  a  non-competitive  anti-
adrenergic action (class II drugs), prolongs the cardiac action potential and refractory period (class III 
drugs) and possesses calcium antagonistic property (class IV drugs). Nevertheless, based on the low 
affinity  constant  of  DRO  at  adrenergic  receptors,  the  mechanisms  underlying  these  effects  remain 
incompletely  understood  and  seem  to  involve  different  mechanisms  (i.e.,  beta-adrenergic  receptors, 
but also glucagon and secretin receptors).  
In  vitro  electrophysiology  showed  that  the  rate  of  rapid  ascending  phase  of  AP  was  decreased  in 
ventricular  conducting  (Purkinje  fibres)  and  contractile  (ventricle)  tissues.  This  effect  was  due  to  an 
inhibition  of  rapid  sodium  channel  demonstrated  in  human  atrial  myocytes.  The  depression  of 
dV/dtmax was frequency-dependent (becomes larger at shorter cycle lengths of stimulation) and was 
use-dependent  with  rapid  onset  and  offset  of  block  comparable  to  those  characteristics  of  class  IB 
agents like lidocaine and amiodarone. The class I property, which would be more pronounced during 
tachycardia, was relatively modest since, in the several in vivo studies carried out, QRS interval was 
not significantly changed. 
In vitro effects on action potential duration (APD) with acute in vitro exposures of DRO, as well as 
amiodarone, depended on the tissue and the animal species. These differences between each cell types, 
which had different composition of inward and outward currents, suggested that the  AP lengthening 
effect,  due  to  outward  current  block  by  DRO  (IKr,  IKs,  Isus)  counteracted  the  AP  shortening  effect 
due  to  inward  current  (mainly  L-type  Ca2+  current)  blocked  by  DRO:  the  outcome  was  different 
according to the cell type.  
The multi-channel blocking properties of DRO, namely inhibition of inward and outward currents, 
produced opposing effects which might explain (i) the homogenization of repolarisation, and (ii) the 
prevention  or  the  reduction  of  EADs  and  delayed  afterdepolarisations  (DADs)  observed  after  acute 
action of DRO in the following experiments. In vitro, DRO diminished the transmural dispersion of 
repolarisation in dogs; principally by shortening the M cell APD and slightly prolonging the APDs of 
endocardial and epicardial cells. Ex vivo or in vivo, it eliminated EADs and EAD- or DAD-induced 
triggered  activity  elicited  by  almokalant,  dofetilide  or  strophantidine  in  canine  ventricle  and  did  not 
change or slightly lengthened QTc in dog and pig hearts. If APD was not always prolonged by DRO 
and amiodarone, and although, effective refractory period (ERP) mainly depended on APD, ERP was 
always  and  clearly  lengthened  in  atrium  and  weakly  increased  in  ventricle.  All  these  effects 
demonstrated class III antiarrhythmic property.  
DRO blocked the L-type calcium current use-dependently and produced a hyperpolarizing shift in the 
inactivation curve of ICa-L. These results suggested that DRO had affinity for Ca2+ channels in the 
                           9/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
indicated 
isoprenaline-evoked  responses 
inactivated  or  depolarized  state.  DRO  thus  displayed  Ca2+  channel  antagonist  or  class  IV 
antiarrhythmic  properties  like  amiodarone.  The  inhibition  of  ICa-L  induced  a  reduction  in  calcium 
transient  and  therefore  decreased  shortening  of  isolated  ventricular  cells,  a  potential  explanation  for 
the decrease in peak tension of isolated papillary muscles by DRO. The calcium antagonistic property 
of the drug might also explain the slowing down of the atrio-ventricular node conduction in dogs and 
consequent  increases  in  PQ  and  AH  intervals  and  prolongation  of  Wenckebach’s  cycle  length. 
However the increase in PQ and AH intervals could also be attributed in part to the decrease in heart 
rate  (HR).In  vivo  electrophysiological  effects  of  DRO  were  evaluated  in  anesthetized  rats  and  dogs 
after  acute  intravenous  infusions  and  after  acute  as  well  as  chronic  oral  treatments.  In  vivo 
electrophysiological  studies  showed  that  DRO  had  more  pronounced  effects  on  atrial  and  nodal 
parameters  (HR,  PR  and  AH  intervals,  AERP  and  AVNERP)  and  at  lower  concentrations  than  on 
ventricular parameters (HV and QRS intervals, VERP). These observations suggested that DRO was 
more  effective  at  supraventricular  than  at  ventricular  levels.  Like  amiodarone,  DRO  possessed  non-
competitive  α  and  β  adrenoceptor  antagonist  properties.  DRO  showed  only  weak  direct  α  and  β 
adrenoceptor  interactions,  but  partially  blocked  isoprenaline-induced  tachycardia  and  adrenaline-
induced  hypertension.  The  basis  for  these  anti-adrenergic  actions  is  poorly  understood  even  though 
calcium antagonist activity after acute and chronic treatments and down regulation in β-adrenoceptor 
number and reduction in noradrenaline plasma concentration after chronic treatment may be counted. 
The  antagonism  of 
that  DRO  possessed  class  II 
antiarrhythmic  properties,  and  thus  the  reduction  in  HR  and  in  atrio-ventricular  node  (AVN) 
conduction  velocity  described  above  (AH,  PQ  intervals  and  Wenckebach’s  cycle  length  increases), 
might be related to this property in addition to the class IV property. DRO reduced L-type and T-type 
calcium  currents  and  pacemaker  current  (If)  of  sino-atrial  node  (physiological  pacemaker);  these 
effects  induced  diminution  of  the  slope  of  slow  diastolic  depolarization  and  thus  reduction  in 
spontaneous sinus rate (SR) of isolated atrium. DRO also reduced the delayed rectifier potassium of 
pacemaker cells leading to increase in APD and, thus, sinus cycle length. The decrease of SR or HR 
was  observed  in  isolated  atria  or  hearts  in  all  experiments  and  in  the  majority  of  cases  in  in  vivo 
studies. In some canine models, DRO induced an increase in HR (not observed with amiodarone) just 
after intravenous or oral administrations. As the HR was the result of the decrease in the spontaneous 
sino-atrial rate, the sympathetic tone (decrease in HR by anti β-adrenergic action) and the vagal tone 
(increase  in  HR  by  IK(Ach)  inhibition),  predominance  of  anti-vagal  tone  was  suggested  but 
exploratory studies did not confirm this hypothesis. 
The  multifactorial  mechanisms  of  action  of  DRO  contributed  to  its  hemodynamic  effects.  DRO  had 
significant α1-, β1- and β2-adrenoceptor blocking effects and calcium antagonist properties that might 
contribute  to  the  vasodilating  and,  possibly,  to  the  negative  inotropic  effects.  However,  as  stated 
before,  the  apparent  discrepancy  between  affinity  and  efficacy  was  not  explained.  Also,  DRO 
transiently  increased  coronary  blood  flow  in  dogs  and  showed  in  vitro  vasodilatory  properties  in 
coronary  arteries  of  the  isolated  heart;  this  effect  was  likely  related  to  the  activation  of  nitric  oxide 
pathway. Main haemodynamic effects of DRO were the decrease in contractility and the increase in 
LV  end  diastolic  pressure  observed  at  relatively  high  concentration  and  mainly  after  intravenous 
administration. At higher iv doses, DRO exerted a negative inotropic effect, which might be offset by 
a  reduction  in  afterload  that  also  occurred,  and  cardiac  output  was  maintained  or  increased  in 
anesthetized  dogs  or  pigs.  The  left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  and  fractional  shortening  (ECG 
measurements) of post myocardial infarction (PMI) (healed) conscious dogs were not modified after 
chronic oral treatment. The antiarrhythmic activity of DRO has been established in a wide variety of 
experimental models including auricular and ventricular arrhythmias. DRO was studied in in vitro and 
in vivo models of AF induced by a hypokalemic media in isolated hearts (guinea pigs), or by electric 
burst  in  dilated  atria  (rabbits),  during  acetylcholine  infusion  (dogs)  and  in  the  presence  of  bilateral 
vagal stimulation (dogs). Experimental models at ventricular level were more numerous than those in 
AF  models  because  initially  the  research  of  a  new  amiodarone-like  compound,  with  a  better  safety 
profile, was focus on ventricular arrhythmias. In in vitro studies, DRO, after an ex vivo iv treatment, 
prevented spontaneous AF induced by hypokalemic media. In AF model induced by electrical burst in 
the dilated atrium, the drug at 0.1 µM restored 100% of hearts to sinus rhythm. In anesthetized dogs 
AF was induced by acetylcholine infusion or by vagal stimulation, DRO restored sinus rhythm with 
effective iv doses about 3 times lower than amiodarone. Like amiodarone, DRO with a multifactorial 
mechanism of action, is effective in several ventricular arrhythmias. After iv and acute or chronic po 
administrations,  DRO  was  a  potent  antiarrhythmic  agent  in  ischemia-  or  reperfusion-induced 
                           10/46  
© EMEA 2009 
arrhythmias  (ventricular  fibrillation  [VF],  ventricular  tachycardia  [VT]  and  premature  ventricular 
beats  [PVBs])  in  rats  as  well  as  pigs.  In  canine  models,  repeated  infusion  of  DRO  restored  sinus  in 
ouabain-induced  VT  or  prevented  sudden  death  (VF)  following  an  ischemic  insult  developed  in  a 
region remote from an infarct; in this model, chronic oral treatment of DRO was ineffective. But in 
other canine model where VF was provoked by a sympathetic hyperactivity with a healed myocardial 
infarction,  chronic  oral  administration  of  DRO,  like  amiodarone,  prevented  VF.  This  antifibrillatory 
effect, greater than that observed with a pure anti-adrenergic intervention, was likely to depend upon 
multiple  actions  on  vulnerable  parameters  involved  in  the  genesis  of  lethal  arrhythmias  of  ischemic 
origin. During pharmacology studies, pro-arrhythmic effects caused by DRO were not observed much. 
In  in  vitro  experiments  DRO  had  never  brought  on  pro-arrhythmias,  on  the  contrary  it  suppressed 
EAD and DAD induced by pure class III antiarrhythmic agent, dofetilide, or by Na-K pump inhibitor, 
strophantidine  in  canine  Purkinje  fibres.  In  in  vivo  experiments,  DRO  (as  well  as  its  metabolite 
SR35021) induced some case of A-V blocks at 10 mg/kg iv in anesthetized rats and extra-systoles in 
anesthetized dogs. These effects were not observed with amiodarone. DRO appeared to promote the 
induction  of  VT  during  programmed  electrical  stimulation  after  3  x  3  mg/kg  iv  in  conscious  post 
infarction dogs. In one anesthetized dog treated with 40 mg/kg od, VF was induced during ventricular 
pacing at day 7. In a model of compensated biventricular hypertrophy by chronic complete A-V block, 
after chronic oral treatment by DRO (20 mg/kg bid), TdP occurred in 4 of 8 animals versus 1 of 6 in 
vehicle group in anesthetized dogs; whereas amiodarone (40 mg/kg od) did not induce TdP in 7 dogs. 
This  discrepancy  between  both  drugs  may  be  due 
to  dissimilar  electrophysiological  and 
haemodynamic  baseline  values  (before  treatment),  which  were  less  altered  in  the  amiodarone  group 
than the control and DRO groups. In this experiment, plasma levels (1.3 µg/mL) of DRO were clearly 
higher  than  that  usually  observed  in  dog  and  man  (0.08  to  0,15  µg/mL),  whereas  plasma  levels  of 
amiodarone (3.5 µg/mL) were slightly greater than that measured in patients (1.5 to 2.5 µg/mL). Most 
of these arrhythmic effects have been obtained with the highest intravenous doses or at high plasma 
concentrations and tissue level after chronic oral treatment.  
The pharmacology studies have shown that DRO was 3 to 20 times more potent than amiodarone in in 
vitro  experiments;  haemodynamic,  electrophysiological  and  antiarrhythmic  effective  doses  of  DRO 
were about 3 times lower than those of amiodarone after acute iv and po administration in rats, dogs or 
pigs.  But  after  chronic  oral  treatment,  effective  doses  of  DRO  were  similar  or  upper  to  those  of 
amiodarone;  measurements  of  plasma  and  cardiac  tissue  concentration  showed  that  DRO  and 
SR35021  values  were  clearly  inferior  to  those  of  amiodarone  and  deethylamiodarone  (metabolite  of 
amiodarone),  respectively.  Thus,  DRO  was  intrinsically  a  more  potent  antiarrhythmic  agent  with  a 
higher  metabolic  clearance  and  less  accumulation  than  amiodarone.  Two  metabolites  have  been 
studied.  SR35021A  displayed  antiarrhythmic,  electrophysiological  and  haemodynamic  activities 
similar to those of DRO but was less potent (approximately 3 to 10 times) than its parent compound. 
SR90154  has  very  little  or  no  activity. Plasma  levels  of  SR35021A  were  about  10  times  lower  than 
those of DRO 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
DRO  has  been  evaluated  in  a  wide  variety  of  experimental  models  of  arrhythmia,  including  models 
related  to  AF  and  ventricular  arrhythmia.  These  studies  are  described  under  the  section  Primary 
pharmacodynamics. No other pharmacological activities have been observed in the course of DRO's 
development  and  therefore  no  further  studies  are  described  in  the  context  of  secondary 
pharmacodynamics. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Central and autonomic nervous system 
The following parameters were assessed in a single experiment in mice following oral and intravenous 
administration  of  DRO:  behaviour,  temperature,  muscle  tone,  motor  coordination  and  body  weight 
follow-up  (over  6  days).  In  mice,  the  only  observed  effect  on  the  central  nervous  system  was  a 
decrease in spontaneous activity from the dose of 200 mg/kg and above after oral administration.  
Cardiovascular function 
In  anesthetized  dog,  administered  by  the  intraduodenal  route,  DRO  induced  at  12.5  and  25  mg/kg  a 
dose-dependent  decrease  in  mean  arterial  blood  pressure  associated  with  a  vasodilator  effect,  an 
                           11/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
increase in stroke volume and cardiac output associated with a decrease in total peripheral resistances. 
No ECG changes were observed. Single doses of dronedarone (1 and 5 mg/kg) were administered by 
intravenous  infusion  in  pentobarbital-anesthetized  mongrel  dogs  of  either  sex.  At  5  mg/kg  the  main 
effects  consisted  of  a  biphasic  decrease  in  blood  pressure,  limb  peripheral  resistances  and  left 
ventricular pressure, a negative chronotropic effect (-22%), a decrease in total peripheral resistances (-
43%)  and  moderate  increase  (39%)  in  cardiac  output  associated  with  a  marked  increase  (54%)  in 
stroke volume. 
Respiratory function 
The respiratory function was assessed both in conscious guinea-pigs and in anesthetized dogs. In the 
guinea pig, DRO administered orally did not affect respiratory function up to and including the dose of 
100  mg/kg.  Single  doses  of  12.5  or  25  mg/kg  dronedarone  were  administered  by  intraduodenal 
administration to groups of 5 anesthetized dogs of either sex. An increase in the respiratory frequency 
and flow was observed after the administration of the dose of 25 mg/kg.  
Gastrointestinal system 
On the gastrointestinal tract, DRO in mice and rats had no effects up to the dose of 100 mg/kg.  
Renal system 
On the hydroelectrolytic balance, the only observed effects in the rat were a decrease in endogenous 
creatinine  clearance  (from  30  mg/kg  in  females  and  at  100  mg/kg  in  males),  a  decrease  in  urinary 
volume associated with slight changes in excreted quantities of electrolytes (100 mg/kg only in both 
sexes).  Repeated  DRO  administration  (up  to  30  mg/kg/day  orally  in  male  rats)  over  2  weeks  was 
devoid of effects on renal blood flow, urine production and creatinine clearance.  
Lung and liver phospholipid contents 
After 14-day repeated administration, DRO unlike amiodarone induced no phospholipid accumulation 
in lung (up to 150 mg/kg/day) and phospholipid accumulation in liver at 100 mg/kg only. 150 mg/kg 
produced a slight and non dose-dependent increase in liver phospholipids.  
Thyroid hormones plasma levels 
The  effect  of  dronedarone  of  thyroid  hormone  plasma  levels  was  only  minimal.  Dronedarone  (150 
mg/kg/day) only decreased T4 and the T4/T3 ratio, while amiodarone increased rT3, T4/T3 ratio and 
decreased T3. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
DRO has been evaluated in a wide variety of in vitro and in vivo studies. They showed that DRO, with 
its multifactorial mechanism of action, induced multiple effects on CV parameters as described under 
Primary  pharmacodynamics.  There  are  a  number  of  drugs  which  could  potentially  interact  with  this 
kind of antiarrhythmic agent and their impact has been investigated in the clinical program, rather than 
in the non-clinical program. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  ADME  studies  described  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  dogs  and  macaques  provide  a  view  of  the 
disposition  of  DRO  and  its  active  metabolite  in  animal  species.  Single  and  repeat-dose  studies  have 
been  conducted  at  dose  levels  within  the  range  of  dosages  tested  for  the  safety  evaluation  program. 
Data  indicates  that  oral  doses  of  DRO  were  well  absorbed.  The  time  of  maximum  plasma 
concentration after oral administration is between 1 to 4 hours whatever the species. Once absorbed, 
DRO undergoes an extensive first pass extraction resulting in low absolute oral bioavailability in the 
species tested. The apparent terminal half-life values of DRO after oral administration were between 2 
and 7 hours in mice, rats and dogs. However, these data are questionable. According to the assessor, 
elimination half life in rat and dog is probably longer because in repeated dose studies accumulation of 
DRO is observed. In all animal species the exposure increased more than dose proportional and some 
drug accumulation was observed (up to 4-5 fold increase in AUC in dogs as compared to single dose 
studies).  DRO  and  its  active  metabolite  are  both  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  in  all  species 
including human and not saturable up to 10000 ng/mL. In human plasma it appeared to be difficult to 
assess the fraction unbound. In a study using equilibrium analysis plasma binding was 99.84 – 100%, 
whereas  a  study  using  ultrafiltration  pointed  at  a  binding  percentage  of  99.14%.  DRO  does  not 
distribute  extensively  into  red  blood  cells.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  DRO  following  intravenous 
administration in rats and dogs are characterized by a large volume of distribution (around 12 and 39-
                           12/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
66  L/kg  in  dogs  and  rats,  respectively)  and  a  high  clearance  (about  2-4  L/h/kg).  DRO  is  widely 
distributed  in  tissues.  The  tissues  with  the  greatest  radioactive  levels  are  liver  >  kidney  =  lung  = 
adrenals  =  pancreas  =  spleen  =  pituitary  gland  >  thyroid  =  salivary  glands  =  brown  fat  >  Harder’s 
glands = pineal body > heart. In pigmented animals, additional specific binding to melanin-containing 
structures, such as skin and eyes, was also observed. DRO and/or its metabolites cross the blood-brain 
barrier,  the  placenta  and  is  excreted  into  milk.  DRO  undergoes  extensive  metabolism.  The  main 
metabolites  of  DRO  observed  in  humans  are  also  observed  in  the  animal  species  tested.  DRO  is  an 
inducer of CYP3A in mice and exhibits no biologically significant inducing effect on CYP-dependent 
reactions in rats and dogs. This effect seems to be limited to mice since it was not observed in rats, 
dogs and humans. DRO is rapidly eliminated by metabolic clearance with no excretion of unchanged 
DRO in bile (rat) and in urine (mice, rat, dog, and macaque). The major route of excretion of the total 
radioactivity is the feces via the bile with less than 9% of the dose in urine. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity studies with oral (1500 and 2000 mg/kg) administration were performed in mice 
and rats of both sexes (5 animals/sex/group). The maximum nonlethal dose in the mouse and the rat 
was 2000 mg/kg. A single oral administration of 2000 mg/kg of DRO caused some clinical signs in 
rats  (prostration,  piloerection,  ptyalism,  and  soiled  urogenital  areas),  and  a  decrease  in  body  weight 
gain in both species. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Overview of the repeat dose toxicity studies: 
Study type and 
duration  
Route  
Species  
M/Fa  
Dose levels 
(mg/kg)  
Batch No.  
Study reference  
Repeat-dose toxicity  
8 days  
2 weeks  
3 months  
6 months  
4 days  
7 days  
4 weeks  
2 weeks  
3 months  
1 year  
2 weeks  
2 weeks  
4 weeks  
4 days  
2 weeks  
po  
po  
po  
po  
rat  
rat  
rat  
rat  
rat  
rat  
rat  
dog  
dog  
dog  
dog  
dog  
dog  
iv  
iv  
iv  
po  
po  
po  
iv  
iv  
iv  
iv   macaque  
iv   macaque  
3/3  
0, 100, 250,   DJ.07.51.5  
DDO0497  
10/10  
15/15  
30/30b , 
20/20b  
3/3  
3/3  
10/10  
3/3  
4/4  
5/5  
1/1  
3/3  
3/3  
1/1  
3/3  
600  
0, 30, 70, 160  
0, 5, 17.5, 60  
0, 2, 10, 50  
0, 3, 6, 12  
0, 5, 10, 20  
0, 2, 4, 8  
0, 25, 60, 140  
0, 5, 17.5, 60  
0, 5, 15, 45  
0, 5, 10, 20  
0, 1, 2.5, 6  
0, 1, 2, 4  
92-01  
92-01  
5SNP505  
DJ.07.51.5  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
92-01  
0, 2, 4, 8, 16   DJ.07.51.5  
0, 1, 2.5, 6  
92-01  
TSA0879  
TXC0887  
TXC0986  
DDO0499  
DDO0548  
TSA0963  
TSA0883  
TXC0886  
TXC0970  
DDO0549  
TSA0885  
TSA0962  
DDO0503  
TSA0884  
po = orally by gavage or capsule (in case of dog); iv = intravenous  
a: Number of animals by treatment group  
b: Group vehicle and group 50 mg/mL for toxicology study: 30M/30F, with 10M/10F for recovery ; group 2 and  
10 mg/mL: 20M/20F  
Consistent with the pharmacological properties of the compound, electrocardiographic changes were 
noted from the lowest tested oral dose in rats (5 mg/kg/day; i.e. at non-detectable exposure levels) and 
from 25 mg/kg/day in dogs (i.e. at 5-8 human anticipated clinical exposure). The long-term effects of 
DRO  on  cardiac  channel  density  and  on  channel  trafficking  has  not  been  studied.  It  can  not  be 
excluded that the reduction of membrane channel density contributes to the long term effects of DRO. 
                           13/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
The metabolite SR35021 was detected in all toxicological species. The SR35021 content in plasma 
was  monitored  during  the  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  and  exposure  levels  relevant  to  what  is 
observed in the clinic were obtained. Hence this major metabolite is considered qualified with respect 
to  carcinogenicity.  Moreover,  adequate  SR35021  exposure  was  observed  in  the  separate  TK  study 
performed in pregnant rabbits. In principle, the rat S9 fraction used in the in vitro genotoxicity studies 
should produce SR35021 hence the metabolite is qualified. 
SR90154  is  the  main  metabolite  in  human.  This  metabolite  is  a  more  abundant  metabolite  than 
SR35021  in  rat,  rabbit  and  dog,  and  is  present  at  similar  levels  as  SR35021  in  mouse.  SR90154 
exposure was generally higher than exposure to DRO in these animal species (3 to 10 fold for Cmax and 
0.9 to 9 fold for AUC). In addition, these ratios did not significantly change with treatment duration, 
sex  and  dose.  In  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  estimated  animal/human  exposure  ratio  for 
SR90154 was close to or slightly below 1 at the NOEL values in rats and dogs. However, an adequate 
exposure (exposure ratio equal or higher than 1) was obtained in the carcinogenicity studies in rats and 
mice. As such, the preclinical safety of SR90154 has been sufficiently qualified. 
Decreased bodyweight gain and food intake appeared in several studies; actually, these were the most 
frequently observed alterations in animals. The applicant does not discuss in this respect whether the 
gastrointestinal alterations seen in these repeated dose toxicity studies are the real cause of the general 
toxicity  findings.  Effects  on  the  gastrointestinal  tract  were  noted  both  in  dogs  and  rats  without 
adequate safety margin compared to clinically anticipated exposures. Gastrointestinal side effects are 
also identified as a clinical issue. For these reasons, the clinical request for measures to minimise the 
risk  of nausea  and  diarrhoea  which  are  reported  as common  adverse  events  in  the  clinical  studies  is 
supported.  
In rats, there was no clear correlation between transaminase elevations and the occurrence of minimal 
foci  of  liver  necrosis.  As  a  result  of  dose  reduction  the  macro-  and  microscopic  gastrointestinal 
changes  observed  in  the  2-week  studies  in  rats  (i.e.  liver)  and  dogs  (i.e.  biliary  system)  were  not 
confirmed  in  the  longer  term  studies  in  these  species.  As  these  effects  occurred  at  exposures  well 
beyond the clinical anticipated levels, they were not relevant.  
Phospholipidosis, as evidenced by foamy macrophages in several tissues, is an important unwanted 
effect  of  amiodarone.  The  applicant  modified  the  molecule  of  DRO  such  that  phospholipidosis  was 
unlikely to occur. Compared to amiodarone, DRO is less lipophilic, has a higher metabolic clearance 
and  a  shorter  half  life.  All  these  characteristics  might  lead  to  lower  tissue  accumulation  of  DRO.  A 
comparative  safety  pharmacology  study  pointed  to  the  lower  potential  of  DRO  to  induce 
phospholipidosis. In the 3 month rat study, foamy macrophages were observed in the lungs and lymph 
nodes of rats. The effects in the lymph nodes occurred at an exposure levels without an exposure based 
safety  margin.  Phospholipidosis  was  not  aggravated  after  a  longer  treatment  (6  months)  employing 
similar  dose  levels  in  rats.  In  this  study  a  (reversible)  increase  in  perivascular  lymphoid  hyperplasia 
was observed. In the rat carcinogenicity study, macrophage infiltration was observed in lungs, and to a 
lesser  extent  in  mesenteric  lymph  nodes,  at  the  high  dose  only  (3-6  times  clinical  exposure  levels). 
Macrophage  infiltration  of  mesenteric  lymph  nodes  occurred  in  dogs  only  at  supra  therapeutic 
exposure  levels  (>  20  times  human  exposure).  In  the  studies  conducted  by  the  intravenous  route  in 
both rats and dogs, although the exposure was much higher compared to the oral route no macrophage 
infiltration was noted. 
As  described  in  the  safety  pharmacology  section,  a  comparative  study  on  the  effects  of  DRO  and 
amiodarone on the thyroid showed that DRO only slightly modified circulating thyroid hormone level, 
whereas with amiodarone, rT3 was increased (2- to 4-fold) and so was T4/T3 (14 to 29%). 
Hormone levels were investigated during the chronic studies in rats and dogs. Changes observed with 
DRO were minor and differ from those induced by amiodarone: decrease in T3 mainly (i.e. -15 to - 
25% in rats at 1-2 times human exposure levels, and -15 to -50% at 1-2 times human exposure levels 
in  dogs),  without  any  change  in  TSH,  and  in  the  rat  only  increased  incidence  of  high  follicular 
epithelium.  The  modifications  caused  by  amiodarone  were  marked  (historical  comparison):  T4 
increased 1.5- to 4- fold and TSH increased 2- to 3-fold in rats, T4 increased 2- to 4- fold in dogs and 
histological  changes  consistent  with  increased  thyroid  activity  were  observed  at  microscopic 
examination, carcinogenicity studies included adenoma and adenocarcinoma in the latter. No changes 
in the thyroid were observed in the carcinogenicity studies conducted with DRO. 
Slight  renal  functional  alterations  were  noted  in  the  toxicity  studies  and  appeared  as  minor  plasma 
and/or urinary biochemistry changes. There were no microscopic changes in the kidney in any of the 
studies. Nevertheless, effects on plasma creatinine occurred at ≥ 0.5 times the human exposure levels 
                           14/46  
© EMEA 2009 
in the 3-month and 6-month chronic studies. A dose effect relationship could not be established. No 
creatinine increase was observed in dogs. Protein was detected in the urine of macaques. The effects 
on creatinine were mentioned in this summary due to the systematic increase in the creatinine plasma 
levels observed during clinical development both in healthy volunteers and in patients. An effect of the 
compound on renal function cannot be excluded." 
•  Genotoxicity 
A  battery  of  genotoxic  studies  was  done.  All  tests  were  negative  and  only  the  HPRT  test  yielded 
equivocal results. Two other in vitro genotoxicity assays were negative. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
In the carcinogenicity studies, DRO produced a treatment-related increase in mortality in male mice 
and resulted in an increase in proliferative changes in the haemolymphoreticular system in male and 
female  mice  (histiocytic  sarcoma),  in  mammary  glands  in  female  mice  (adenocarcinoma)  and  in  the 
mesenteric lymph nodes in rats and mice (angiomatous hyperplasia and hemangioma in both species, 
hemangiosarcoma in female mice only). All these effects occurred at the highest dose tested leading to 
exposure level which is 10 fold the clinically anticipated levels. Based on the provided information, 
the  increased  incidence  of  histiocytic  sarcomas  in  mice  most  likely  does  not  represent  a  risk  for 
humans. The risk for development of haemangiosarcomas following DRO treatment is low. However, 
there are no data at this stage and the monitoring for haemangiomas needs to be included in the risk-
management plan. In repeat dose and carcinogenicity studies, dark discolouration of mesenteric lymph 
nodes was observed being the result of blood stasis. The clinical relevance of these effects is unknown. 
The  increased  incidence  of  mammary  gland  adenocarcinomas  in  high-dose  female  mice  were 
considered  to  be  due  to  a  subtle  interference  with  prolactin  homeostasis.  Indirect  evidence  for  a 
hormonally driven effect comes from increased incidences of Harderian gland adenomas and uterine 
changes  in  treated  mice;  effects  which  may  be  ascribed  to  an  increase  in  prolactin.  This  view  is 
supported  by  the  finding  that  DRO  induced  a  slight  but  significant  increase  in  prolactin  levels  in 
female  mice  after  a  single  or  28-day  administration.  This  increase  was  of  low  magnitude  in 
comparison  with  the  large  increases  seen  with  known  D2  receptor  agonists,  and  would  explain  the 
weak  response  of  mammary  tumors  observed.  In  addition,  a  receptor  screening  assay  showed  that 
DRO, as well as amiodarone has affinities for D3 and D4.2 receptors in the 1 to 5 μM range and are 
less potent on D1 and D2L receptors. This weak activity on D2 receptors would be consistent with a 
slight  effect  on  prolactin  homeostasis  mediated  through  dopamine.  The  prolactin-induced  mammary 
carcinogenesis in rodents is not relevant for humans. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
In fertility studies, DRO was administered up to 100 mg/kg/day in rats. The NOEL for male (paternal) 
and female (maternal) animals was 30 mg/kg/day. Based on reproductive effects at 100 mg/kg/day, the 
NOEL  for  female  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development  was  considered  to  be  30  mg/kg/day. 
These  effects  are  probably  the  result  of  maternal  toxicity.  During  embryo-fetal  development  studies 
performed  in  rats,  DRO  was  found  to  be  teratogenic  in  the  rat  at  100  mg/kg/day.  Despite  maternal 
toxicity  noted  at  this  dose  level  (decreased  body  weight  gain  associated  with  decreased  food 
consumption),  this  was  considered  to  be  a  direct  teratogenic  effect.  At  lower  doses,  DRO  had  no 
adverse effects on the dams or their litters. In the pre- and post- natal development study from GD6 to 
LD20, the dose of 50 mg/kg/day was shown not to induce any adverse effect  on the F1 pups (other 
than a minor decrease in body weight gain from day 1 to day 4 post-partum imputed to slight maternal 
toxicity  characterized  by  a  moderate  decrease  in  body  weight  gain),  or  on  the  F2  pups.  No  other 
effects on reproductive parameters were noted in this study. DRO induced maternal deaths, abortion 
and  marked  weight  loss  at  200  mg/kg/day  in  an  embryofetal  study  in  rabbits.  Because  of  this,  high 
dose  litters  could  not  be  reliably  evaluated  as  their  number  was  too  low  to  draw  meaningful 
conclusions. At the dose of 60 mg/kg/day, no teratogenic effect was found. There was a reduction in 
bodyweight gain; the NOEL for dams was determined to be 20 mg/kg/day.  
•  Local tolerance  
There were 3 local tolerance studies performed: (1) Local Tolerance of Two Injectable Formulations 
by the Intravenous Administration in New Zealand hybrid rabbits (TOL0921) - both formulations and 
their respective placebos were well-tolerated in this study, (2) Local Tolerance by the Perivenous and 
                           15/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Intra-arterial Administrations (TOL0922) in New Zealand hybrid rabbits - evidence of moderate local 
intolerance was seen at sites injected with DRO by either route, but not at vehicle and saline control 
sites.  Loss  of  motility  was  noted  in  all  rabbits  after  administration  of  DRO  intra-arterially.  One  of 
these  was  found  dead  24  hours  after  injection.  The  lesions  observed  in  this  animal  at  necropsy 
suggested CV collapse, (3) Local Tolerance of 3 formulations of DRO and placebo by the intravenous 
route  in  the  rabbit  (TOL1007)  No  behavioural  changes  or  cases  of  mortality  were  noted  during  the 
study.  Examination  of  the  local  parameters  (erythema,  edema,  hematoma),  macroscopic  and 
microscopic  examination  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  tolerability  of  DRO  is  good  when  it  is 
administered by the intravenous route at the concentrations of 1 and 2 mg/mL. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Phototoxicity  was  only  observed  at  high  dose  levels,  and  no  storage  was  observed  in  the  skin.  In 
addition, DRO did not induce photo allergy. Photosensitivity was observed in patients, although at a 
low incidence. Potential genotoxic impurities were evaluated. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
With respect to the environmental risk assessment, the following conclusions have been drawn: DRO 
is neither PBT nor vPvB, risk to the microorganisms in a sewage treatment plants, risk to the aquatic 
compartment, the groundwater compartment and the terrestrial is considered to be negligible.  In order 
to complete the environmental risk assessment, it has been agreed that further studies, i.e. OECD 307 
and OECD 308 will be performed as well as recalculation of the kinetic BCF OECD 305 fish BCF 
study. It has been agreed that these data will provided as a follow-up measures (FUM1 – 3). 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Six controlled studies are currently submitted. Of these, five are placebo-controlled; 4 of which were 
already  submitted  in  the  previous  application  to  document  the  efficacy  of  DRO  400  mg  BID  in 
maintaining sinus rhythm or controlling ventricular rate in patients with AF/AFL (EURIDIS/ADONIS 
and ERATO studies respectively). The new Study ATHENA investigated the efficacy of DRO 400 mg 
BID on the reduction of the risk of CV hospitalization or death. Additionally, one actively-controlled 
study (DIONYSOS) is currently submitted with responses to the Day 120 List of Questions. The dose 
selection in all the studies is based on the dose finding study DAFNE. All studies were multinational, 
multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, of parallel design and comparable demographics, except 
DIONYSOS  which  was  actively-controlled.  Elderly  (>30%)  and  female  patients  (43.6%)  were  well 
represented and in line with the clinical AF population. Most of the patients were Caucasians; other 
races  contributed  with  10%.  Included  patients  had  medical  histories  generally  representing  clinical 
practice: structural heart disease, ischemic heart disease and systemic hypertension. However, patients 
with NYHA class III or LVEF <35% were not adequately represented (less than 4%); NYHA class IV 
were  contraindicated.  Medications  that  are  commonly  prescribed  in  AF  patients  (beta-blockers, 
digoxin and calcium channel blockers) were co-administered in these trials allowing assessment of the 
effect of their co-administration. Class I and III antiarrhythmics were contraindicated.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. All clinical 
studies  in  the  DRO  clinical  program  were  sponsored  by  the  Applicant.  Audits  of  study  sites  were 
conducted on a routine basis by the Sponsor's Clinical Quality and Compliance personnel to verify the 
quality  of  data  collection.  In  2  cases  during  the  development  program,  involving  1  site  in  both  the 
ERATO  and  ANDROMEDA  studies  and  1  site  in  the  ATHENA  study,  routine  monitoring  revealed 
evidence of Good Clinical Practice misconduct leading to "for cause" audits. Subsequently the study 
centre  and  files  were  audited  to  evaluate  the  extent  and  consequences  of  the  violation.  The  data 
specific to the violating centre were excluded from the main statistical analysis. Additional audits of 
investigator sites performed in 4 other centres and countries did not identify any further deviations or 
raise any concerns for other centres involved in the studies. The sponsor concluded that the deviation 
was investigator- and centre-specific. The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical 
                           16/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trials conducted outside the community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of 
Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Absorption  
DRO is well-absorbed after oral administration (70 to 94%) in fed conditions. Absolute bioavailability 
due to presystemic first pass metabolism is under fed conditions only 15%. As mentioned before, food 
increases  DRO’s  absorption.  Of  note,  DRO  tablets  contain  poloxamer  as  an  excipient  (surfactant) 
which has been shown to significantly increase bioavailability under fasting conditions. The applicant 
states that the strong increase in bioavailability of DRO by poloxamer is due to increased solubility. 
However,  literature  data  suggest  that  poloxamer’s  inhibitory  effect  on  P-gp  might  be  an  additional 
contributing factor. 
•  Distribution 
DRO and its main metabolite SR35021 exhibit high levels of in vitro plasma protein binding (>98%), 
mainly to albumin. Binding to α1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) under normal conditions has no relevance 
but may gain importance when AAG concentrations are increased, such as during infectious diseases. 
After IV administration a large volume of distribution at steady-state (Vss) ranging from 1200 to 1400 
L is observed. The large range being can be attributed to the common problem of extrapolation of non-
compartmental pharmacokinetics data; i.e. plasma concentrations below the LOQ near the end of the 
time  versus  concentration  profiles.  The  ratio  of  red  blood  cells/plasma  DRO  concentrations  was 
approximately  1.  DRO  has  been  shown  in  animal  studies  to  cross  the  blood  brain  barrier  and  the 
placenta and is excreted into breast milk. 
•  Elimination 
DRO is extensively metabolised mainly (>84%) by CYP3A4. The major metabolic pathways included 
a)  N-debutylation  to  form  SR35021  followed  by  oxidation  (∼24%),  b)  oxidative  N-deamination  to 
form the propanoic acid metabolite (SR90154) followed by oxidation (∼26%), and c) direct oxidation 
(∼12%).  SR35021  is  metabolised  itself  only  in  part  (~50%)  by  CYP3A4.  A  higher  proportion  of 
metabolites  are  found  after  oral  than  after  IV  administration  indicating  a  relevant  first  pass  effect. 
Although there is some evidence that CYP3A4 allelic distribution may differ among populations, there 
is limited evidence that the resulting protein variants have a substantial effect on enzyme function in 
vivo.  However,  CYP3A5,  a  closely  related  enzyme  with  overlapping  substrate  specificity  and  a 
prominent  role  in  intestinal  drug  metabolism,  exhibits  functionally  important  polymorphisms.  DRO 
itself did not appear to be a substrate for CYP2D6, but was shown to inhibit CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. 
Interestingly,  comparison  of  the  results  of  in-vitro  enzyme  inhibition  studies  with  the  results  of  the 
clinical  studies  shows  that  in-vivo  inhibition  of  CYP3A4  is  stronger  than  expected.  The  applicant 
attributes this difference to "mechanism-based inhibition" which usually means irreversible inhibition, 
however without presenting relevant experimental results to support this important observation. DRO 
did  not  induce  CYP1A1,  CYP1A2,  CYP2A  and  CYP3A  nor  inhibit  CYP1A2,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2C8, CYP2B6 and CYP2E1 isoenzymes. The main metabolite SR35021 was shown to inhibit in 
vitro  all  CYP  isoenzymes  tested  (CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1  and 
CYP3A4). On the basis of the in vitro interaction potential of DRO and SR35021 with CYP2C8 and 
CYP2B6,  an  interaction  with  CYP2C8  and  CYP2B6  enzymes  is  considered  unlikely  in  vivo.  The 
clinical development program of DRO has therefore been set up to address potential interactions with 
CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9 and CYP1A2 isoenzymes. The N-debutyl metabolite SR35021 exhibits 
pharmacodynamic activity but is 3 to 10-times less potent than DRO. After oral administration similar 
plasma levels of SR35021 compared to DRO are observed and SR35021 contributes only to a limited 
extent to the pharmacological activity of DRO. However, since its free concentration is substantially 
higher,  it  is  plausible  that  SR35021  has  a  pharmacodynamic  activity  comparable  to  DRO.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  SR35021  is  currently  poorly  understood.  For  the  time  being,  however,  the 
pharmacokinetic  assessment  focuses  primarily  on  DRO.  SR35021  pharmacokinetics,  especially 
metabolism will be explored further post-approval (FUM 7 and 8). 
Following oral administration 84% and 6% of the DRO dose is excreted mainly as metabolites in 
feces and urine respectively. After iv administration the plasma clearance of DRO ranges from 130 to 
150 L/h  and  is  independent  of  the  dose.  Plasma  elimination  has  a  bi-phasic  profile  and  steady  state 
                           17/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
terminal half-lifes (t1/2z) of DRO ranges from 27 to 31 h and that of SR35021 ranges from 20 to 24 h. 
After a 14-day washout period DRO and its metabolite are not detectable in plasma anymore. Due to 
the biphasic elimination profile the second phase of the concentration time curve does not contribute 
much  to  the  total  extent  of  DRO  extent  of  exposure.  Therefore,  despite  30  hours  t½z  plasma 
concentration  time  profiles  seem  more  constant  after  400  mg  BID  instead  of  800  mg  OD  DRO 
administration.  Thus,  from  a  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view  a  twice  daily  dosing  regimen  is 
defendable. This is supported by the pharmacodynamic data. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
DRO exposure increases supraproportional. After a two-fold dose increase plasma levels of DRO and 
its main metabolite increase 2.4- to 3-fold. Steady state at the clinically relevant dose of 400 mg BID 
is reached after 4 - 8 days. Based on Ctrough values in the higher dose range > 800 mg BID it may take 
longer before steady state is reached than in the therapeutic dose range. An accumulation rate of 2.6 to 
4.5 seems independent of the dose in the range of 200 mg to 800 mg DRO administered BID. A larger 
than expected accumulation rate based on single dose data was observed probably due to a saturated 
first pass metabolism. Accumulation rates at higher than therapeutic doses are somewhat larger in the 
range of 3 to 7. After repeated dosing of 400 mg DRO BID in fed conditions, mean Cmax,ss ranges from 
84 to 167 ng/mL for DRO and from 66 to 119 ng/mL for SR35021. The extent of exposure (AUC0-12) 
ranges from 650 – 1030 ng*h/mL for DRO and from 534 – 930 ng*h/mL for SR35021. Under fasted 
conditions intra-individual PK variability of DRO pharmacokinetics is considerable (Cmax ~34%; AUC 
~18%), but under fed conditions intra-individual PK variability is moderate (Cmax 18 – 26%; AUC0-12 
10  –  18%)  and  similar  in  a  patient  and  healthy  volunteer  population.  Intra-individual  variability  is 
estimated  from  residual  coefficients  of  variance  as  no  replicate-design  studies  were  performed. 
Interindividual variability is in the range of 30% to 37% under fed conditions. DRO can be considered 
as a drug with only a limited PK variability under, clinically relevant, fed conditions.  
•  Special populations 
A limited clinical pharmacology program in special populations was performed with DRO.  
Hepatic impairment 
In  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment,  DRO  exposures  are  on  average  increased  by 1.3-fold 
and the unbound exposures are increased by 1.9-fold. The total and unbound exposures of the active 
metabolite are decreased by 1.6 to 1.9-fold. In view of the extensive hepatic metabolism of DRO these 
changes are considered moderate. Nevertheless,  since the unbound fractions of DRO and  metabolite 
are  nearly  2-fold  changed  in  opposite  directions,  the  applicant  should  discuss  if  a  dose  reduction  to 
400 mg qd should be recommended in subjects with hepatic impairment. Furthermore, the influence of 
moderate  hepatic  impairment  on  DRO  pharmacokinetics  may  be  underestimated  as  the  subjects 
studied may not well represent subjects with impaired metabolic capacity. The Applicant adequately 
justified  the  current  dose  recommendation  in  their  response  to  CHMP.The  scores  in  the  moderate 
hepatic  impairment  group  were  mainly  related  to  ascites  and  encephalopathy  and  only  few  patients 
with affected albumin or PT were included, as with all patients at risk of increased plasma exposure 
the lack of alternative dose formulations reduces the clinical potential of DRO. Patients are exposed a 
priori  to  unnecessary  high  doses.  Due  to  a  lack  of  information  a  contra-indication  for  patients  with 
severe hepatic impairment is indeed warranted. 
Renal impairment 
The lack of a study in patients with renal impairment is acceptable as DRO undergoes limited renal 
excretion only, approximately 6%. The lack of impact on DRO PK in patients with renal impairment is 
supported by population pharmacokinetics analyses.  
Elderly 
In elderly (>65 years) men DRO rate and extent of exposure are increased by approximately 23% to 
33% when compared to young men. Therefore, age by itself does not have a clinically relevant impact 
on DRO pharmacokinetics. However, a 1.5-fold increase in exposure was observed in elderly female 
compared to elderly male. Body weight may explain part of these observed differences. This impact of 
weight is not investigated in a separate  clinical pharmacology study but addressed in the population 
PK assessment only. Elderly women may therefore have a clinically relevant increase in exposure as 
compared to younger male patients. A single study was performed in Japanese subjects, which did not 
                           18/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
point  to  important  differences  in  pharmacokinetics  characteristics  as  compared  with  Caucasian 
subjects. In the clinical efficacy/safety trials only a limited number of non-Caucasian subjects (~10% 
of total trial population) were investigated.  
Children 
No clinical pharmacology studies were performed in children. This is considered acceptable in view of 
the proposed indication of AF/AFL, which is uncommon in children.  
Other 
Although  clearance  was  statistical  significantly  related  to  age,  gender  and  weight,  the  clinical 
relevance of this finding is less clear. Based on simulated data, females would have 19% higher AUC 
compared to males. AUC would be 20% higher in patients with relatively low body weight (<59 kg), 
compared to “average” patient (84 kg in this population PK study). Vice versa, AUC would be 15% 
lower  in  overweight  patients  (BW>95kg).  Age  has  relatively  little  influence:  AUC  would  be  5% 
higher for patient > 82 yrs compared to 65 yrs old patients. The exposure would be highest for older 
female patients, with relatively low bodyweight.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro DRO is for >84% metabolised through cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) isoenzymes and is 
shown to be itself a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 isoenzymes. In addition, the main 
metabolite SR35021 demonstrated a potential for inhibition of CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP1A2 as 
well.  
Co-administered drugs affecting DRO exposure 
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Repeated  doses  of  200 mg  ketoconazole  daily  resulted  in  a  17-fold  increase  in  DRO  exposure. 
Therefore,  concomitant  use  of  ketoconazole  as  well  as  other  potent  CYP  3A4  inhibitors  such  as 
itraconazole,  voriconazole,  pozaconazole,  ritonavir,  telithromycin,  clarithromycin  or  nefazodone  is 
contraindicated.    Calcium  antagonists,  diltiazem  and  verapamil,  are  substrates  and/or  moderate 
inhibitors of CYP 3A4. Moreover, due to their heart rate-lowering properties, verapamil and diltiazem 
have  the  potential  to  interact  with  DRO  from  a  pharmacodynamic  point  of  view.  Repeated  doses  of 
diltiazem  (240 mg  twice  daily),  verapamil  (240 mg  once  daily)  and  nifedipine  (20 mg  twice  daily) 
resulted in an increase in DRO exposure of 1.7-, 1.4- and 1.2- fold, respectively. Calcium antagonists 
also  have  their  exposure  increased  by  DRO  (400 mg  twice  daily)  (verapamil  by  1.4-  fold,  and 
nisoldipine by 1.5- fold). In clinical trials, 13% of patients received calcium antagonists concomitantly 
with DRO. There was no increased risk of hypotension, bradycardia and heart failure. Overall, due to 
the pharmacokinetic interaction and possible pharmacodynamic interaction, calcium antagonists with 
depressant effects on sinus and atrio-ventricular node such as verapamil and diltiazem should be used 
with caution when associated with DRO. These medicinal products should be initiated at low dose and 
up-titration should be done only after ECG assessment. In patients already on calcium antagonists at 
time  of  DRO  initiation,  an  ECG  should  be  performed  and  the  calcium  antagonist  dose  should  be 
adjusted if needed. Other moderate inhibitors of the CYP3A4 such as erythromycin are also likely to 
increase  DRO  exposure.  The  MAH  committed  to  perform  an  in  vivo  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
study  to  assess  the  potential  of  inhibition  of  erythromycin  on  dronedarone  and  to  evaluate  any 
potential impact on the SPC (FUM 10).  
CYP3A4 inducers 
Rifampicin (600 mg once daily) decreased DRO exposure by 80% with no major change on its active 
metabolite exposure. Therefore, co-administration of rifampicin and other potent CYP 3A4 inducers 
such  as  phenobarbital,  carbamazepine,  phenytoin  or  St  John’s  Wort  is  not  recommended  as  they 
decrease DRO exposure. 
                           19/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers on SR35021 exposure 
The impact of CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers on the active SR35021 metabolite is modest, because 
of  the  involvement  of  CYP3A4  both  in  its  formation  and  further  metabolism.  Considering  that 
SR35021 is 3- to 10-fold less pharmacologically potent than DRO with similar plasma concentrations 
under normal conditions, CYP3A4 mediated drug-drug interactions are not likely to influence DRO’s 
clinical efficacy and safety through changes in SR35021 exposure.  
Absorption modification of DRO 
Pantoprazole  did  increase  DRO  Cmax  by  13%.  Therefore  alteration  of  pH  does  not  influence  DRO 
bioavailability  to  a  relevant  extent.  Food  increases  DRO  bioavailability  2-  to  4.5-fold  (see  section 
II.1.3). Meals with a high fat content increase DRO exposure 1.2- to 1.5-fold compared to meals with 
a  low  fat  content.  In  view  of  this  relatively  small  impact  of  the  type  of  meal,  DRO  can  be 
recommended to be taken with food as was done in the clinical efficacy/safety studies without making 
specific and unrealistic recommendations regarding type of food-intake. 
DRO affecting exposure of co-administered drugs 
CYP3A4 substrates 
Statins: DRO can increase exposure of statins that are substrates of CYP 3A4 and/or P-gp substrates. 
DRO (400 mg twice daily) increased simvastatin and simvastatin acid exposure by 4- fold and 2- fold 
respectively. It is predicted that DRO could also increase the exposures of lovastatin and atorvastatin 
within the same range as simvastatin acid. Interaction of DRO on statins transported by OATP, such as 
fluvastatin  and  rosuvastatin  has  not  been  studied.  In  clinical  trials,  there  was  no  evidence  of  safety 
concerns  when  DRO  was  co-administered  with  statins  metabolized  by  CYP  3A4.  As  high  doses  of 
statins increase the risk of  myopathy, concomitant  use of statins  should be undertaken with caution. 
Lower  starting  dose  and  maintenance  doses  of  statins  should  be  considered  according  to  the  statin 
label  recommendations  and  patients  monitored  for  clinical  signs  of  muscular  toxicity.  The  MAH 
committed to perform an in vitro study to investigate the potential inhibition of dronedarone, SR35021 
and SR90154 on OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3 and OCT and to evaluate any potential impact on the 
SPC (FUM9). 
Calcium antagonists: the interaction of dronedarone on calcium antagonists is described above. 
Sirolimus,  tacrolimus:  DRO  could  increase  plasma  concentrations  of  tacrolimus  and  sirolimus. 
Monitoring of their plasma concentrations and appropriate dose adjustment is recommended in case of 
coadministration with DRO. 
Oral  contraceptives:  no  decreases  in  ethinylestradiol  and  levonorgestrel  were  observed  in  healthy 
subjects receiving DRO (800 mg twice daily) concomitantly with oral contraceptives. 
P-glycoprotein substrates 
Digoxin  
DRO  (400 mg  twice  daily)  increased  digoxin  exposure  by  2.5-  fold  by  inhibiting  P-gp  transporter. 
Moreover, digitalis has the potential to interact with DRO from a pharmacodynamic point of view. A 
synergistic effect on heart rate and atrio-ventricular conduction is possible. In clinical trials, increased 
levels  of  digitalis  and/or  gastrointestinal  disorders  indicating  digitalis  toxicity  were  observed  when 
DRO was co-administered with digitalis. The digoxin dose should be reduced by approximately 50%, 
serum  levels  of  digoxin  should  be  closely  monitored  and  clinical  and  ECG  monitoring  is 
recommended.  The  MAH  committed  to  perform  an  in  vitro  study  in  Caco-2  cells  in  order  to 
specifically assess the potential of inhibition of poloxamer 407 on typical P-gp probe substrate such as 
digoxin. Based on the results obtained, the need for a further study will be evaluated (FUM 4). 
CYP2D6 substrates 
Beta blockers Beta blockers that are metabolized by CYP 2D6 can have their exposure increased by 
DRO. Moreover, beta blockers have the potential to interact with DRO from a pharmacodynamic point 
of view. DRO 800 mg daily increased metoprolol exposure by 1.6- fold and propranolol exposure by 
1.3-fold  (i.e.  much  below  the  6-  fold  differences  observed  between  poor  and  extensive  CYP  2D6 
metabolisers).  In  clinical  trials,  bradycardia  was  more  frequently  observed  when  DRO  was  given  in 
interaction  and  possible 
combination  with  beta-blockers.  Due 
the  pharmacokinetic 
to 
                           20/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamic  interaction,  beta  blockers  should  be  used  with  caution  concomitantly  with  DRO. 
These  medicinal  products  should  be  initiated  at  low  dose  and  up-titration  should  be  done  only  after 
ECG assessment. In patients already taking beta blockers at time of DRO initiation, an ECG should be 
performed and the beta blocker dose should be adjusted if needed. 
Antidepressants Since DRO is a weak inhibitor of CYP 2D6 in humans, it is predicted to have limited 
interaction on antidepressant medicinal products metabolized by CYP 2D6. 
CYP2C9 substrates 
DRO (600 mg twice daily) increased by 1.2- fold S-warfarin with no change in R warfarin and only a 
1.07  increase  in  International  Normalized  Ratio  (INR).  No  interaction  was  observed  between  DRO 
and  losartan  and  an  interaction  between  DRO  and  other  Angiotensin  II  Receptor  Antagonists  is  not 
expected. 
CYP1A2 substrates 
DRO does not have a potential to inhibit CYP1A2 to a clinically significant extent. 
CYP2C19 substrates 
DRO’s  potential  to  inhibit  CYP2C19  has  not  been  yet  established  and  therefore  the  applicant  is 
required to address this issue post-approval (FUM 5).   
In the opinion of the CHMP the applicant has not been able to substantiate fully its claim of having 
developed  a  compound  with  a  clinically  relevant  improved  pharmacokinetic  profile  over  the  parent 
compound amiodarone. DRO’s main pharmacokinetic advantage is that, compared to amiodarone, its 
half-life is shorter due to a smaller distribution volume. These PK characteristics may reduce the long-
term  pulmonary  adverse  events  observed  with  amiodarone.  However,  it  was  the  interaction  profile 
(inhibition potential of CYP3A4, CYP2D6 and Pgp) of DRO that was a major cause for concern in the 
previous  application.  At  present  this  pharmacokinetic  issue  was  however  largely  solved  with  the 
submission  of  the  ATHENA  study  in  which  generally  drug-drug  interactions  were  manageable  in  a 
clinical trial setting. In fact, potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
telithromycin, clarithromycin, nefazodone and ritonavir) are rightly contraindicated by the SPC and as 
such are not expected to pose a major concern. The same applies to grapefruit juice; the SPC instructs 
the medical care provider to instruct and warn the patients to avoid grapefruit juice beverages while 
taking  DRO.  When  moderate/weak  CYP3A4  inhibitors  such  as  calcium-antagonists  (e.g.,  verapamil 
and diltiazem) are co-administered with DRO this should be done with caution and with low doses that 
are  only  increased  under  ECG  guidance.  Potent  CYP  3A4  inducers  such  as  phenobarbital, 
carbamazepine,  phenytoin,  St  John’s  Wort  are  not  recommended  by  the  SPC  as  they  decrease  DRO 
exposure  up  to  five-fold.  Although  the  impact  on  statins  (CYP3A4  substrates)  could  hypothetically 
lead  to  increased  risk  of  statin  dose-related  adverse  events,  especially  myopathy,  the  data  from 
ATHENA and the integrated analyses do not backup this assumption. However, it should be noted that 
the possible interaction with clopidogrel – an important drug for the targeted patient population – has 
not been evaluated by the applicant. Since the active metabolite of clopidogrel is formed by CYP3A4 
and  since  clopidogrel  is  possibly  also  a  P-gp  substrate,  DRO  may  decrease  the  therapeutic  effect  of 
clopidogrel. Consequently, it is very difficult to predict what will be the overall effect if DRO is taken 
together with clopidogrel. A DDI study is going to be performed post-approval (FUM 6).  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
DRO  is  an  anti-arrhythmic  agent  belonging  to  the  benzofurane  class  of  anti-arrhythmic  compounds 
including  amiodarone.  DRO  demonstrates  electrophysiological  characteristics  belonging  to  all  4 
Vaughan-Williams classes of anti-arrhythmic compounds:  
1. To a limited extent it blocks sodium (INa) channels decreasing the slope of the depolarization phase 
(phase 0) of the action potential (Class I effect);  
2. It also has limited non-competitive α and β adrenoceptor antagonist properties (Class II effect); 
3. Its primary activity is to block the outward potassium currents involved in cardiac repolarization at 
both  the  atrial  and  the  ventricular  levels,  thus  prolonging  action  potential  duration  (APD)  and  the 
refractory period (Class III effect);  
4. Finally, it reduces on a limited basis L-type and T-type inward calcium currents (Class IV effect). 
                           21/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamic studies  focused on CV and ECG effects; electrophysiological studies are lacking. 
DRO decreases heart rate HR at higher than therapeutic doses and to a larger extent during exercise 
testing. At the clinically significant 400 mg BID dose DRO showed only moderate changes in systolic 
blood pressure SBP and diastolic blood pressure DBP. PR interval was increased as was QTc (10-20 
ms with 400 mg BID dose), the latter increasing with dose. The dose range tested indicates that lower 
than 400 mg BID doses may not be clinically effective, but possibly if a 300 mg BID dose had been 
administered instead of 600 mg OD this dose might have shown clinical benefit. However, from these 
PD  data  the  dose  range  chosen  in  the  dose  finding  study  DAFNE  (see  Efficacy)  seems  defendable, 
though  with  hindsight  not  very  fortunate,  as  a  lower  daily  dose  may  have  had  clinical  relevance  in 
special  patient  groups  (e.g.  female).  DRO’s  antiarrhythmic  properties  were  confirmed  in  a  patient 
population especially for its heart rate lowering effect with only a limited impact on clinical endpoints 
e.g.  conversion  to  sinus  rhythm  or  impact  on  six  minute  walking  distance  test.  A  not  very  strong 
PK/PD  correlation  was  observed  for  QTc  and  lower  than  average  plasma  ranges  may  have  clinical 
significance for time to recurrence of AF/AFL. 
Verapamil  shows  clinically  relevant  PK  and  PD  interactions  with  DRO  which  may  have  clinical 
consequences  (see  efficacy  and  safety  concerns).  A  more  limited  and  predictable  impact  of  co-
administered beta-blockers was observed. 
The  results  of  the  PD  studies  showed  that  in  healthy  volunteers  the  administration  of  DRO 
400 mg BID  was  associated  with  a  reduction  in  renal  creatinine  clearance  and  an  increased 
creatinemea  which  returned  to  normal  levels  14  days  after  drug  discontinuation.  This  was  similarly 
observed  in  patients  with  normal  renal  function  or  mild  to  moderate  renal  insufficiency.  These 
observations  substantiate  the  claim  of  the  Sponsor  regarding  the  possibility  that  the  increased 
creatinine levels are only due to a pharmacodynamic interaction of DRO at the renal level resulting in 
inhibition  of  its  clearance  by  inhibition  of  organic  cation  transport.  However,  patients  with  severe 
renal failure were not addressed in these studies. Compared with historical data of cimetidine (another 
known inhibitor of organic cation transporters) DRO appeared to have an equivalent or slightly lower 
potential to interact with creatinine secretion than cimetidine. Nevertheless, the issue still remains that 
an important and easily available clinical parameter for renal function is lost for daily clinical practice. 
This subject is further discussed under the ATHENA and ANDROMEDA studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study 
Study DRI3550/DAFNE 
The selected dose range was chosen on the basis of ECG effects in the phase I studies and included 
DRO  400  mg  BID,  600  mg  BID  and  800  mg  BID.  The  objective  of  the  DAFNE  study  was  to 
determine  the  most  effective  dose  of  DRO  for  the  maintenance  of  sinus  rhythm  in  patients  with 
persistent  AF  undergoing  cardioversion.  Following  an  amendment  in  the  protocol,  the  primary 
endpoint focussed on time to first recurrence after successful conversion to normal sinus rhythm. The 
efficacy results did indicate that DRO 400 mg BID had a significant effect on maintenance of sinus 
rhythm after conversion of AF.as shown in table below.  
                           22/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. Time to first AF recurrence in the PPM population DAFNE 
Parameter 
Statistics  Placebo 
N=48 
400 mg 
BID 
N=54 
600 mg 
BID 
N=54 
800 mg 
BID 
N=43 
Median 
5.32 
59.92 
4.31 
5.18 
Duration 
In sinus 
Rhythm 
(days) 
Cox’s 
Model 
Dose effect 
P=0.7188 
Covariates 
SHD 
P==0.0737 
AFD 
P=0.2943 
SHD: structural heart disease AFD: AF duration 
At 6 months (end of study), the recurrence rate was 65% (DRO 400 mg BID) vs. 90% (placebo) which 
is considered clinically relevant. This was further supported by outcomes of the secondary endpoints. 
This study however raises the issue of lack of dose response. No significant effects were seen in the 
median time to first AF recurrence in the PPM population following the 600 mg BID or 800 mg BID 
dosages.  This  difference  could  be  due  to  the  heterogeneity  of  the  groups,  but  the  results  contrasted 
with  the  effect  on  non-electrical  cardioversion  and  ventricular  rates  in  case  of  recurrence  where  the 
higher  doses  showed  slightly  better  results.  In  the  previous  assessment,  the  issue  of  lack  of  dose 
response was discussed by the applicant. As already stated, lower doses were not investigated in the 
PD  studies,  which  is  a  weak  point  of  the  clinical  development  program.  Further  analysis  of  the 
subsequent  studies  EURIDIS/ADONIS  data  in  which  patients  were  administered  DRO  400  mg  BID 
showed  that  patients  achieving  lower  than  median  plasma  concentrations  had  worse  results  (albeit 
significant) than those achieving higher concentrations. This probably denotes that lower DRO doses 
may  not  be  effective  but  where  the  cut-off  point  lays  remains  unclear.  Still,  available  PK/PD  data 
show  only  a  minimal  correlation  of  electrophysiological  changes  with  plasma  concentration.  The 
unavailability of data on a lower dose and the lack of a drug formulation of e.g. 300 mg to be given 
BID, is especially unfortunate in view of specific patient groups, e.g. patients with specific interacting 
co-medications, who are at risk of increased DRO exposure. 
•  Main studies 
Studies EFC3153/EURIDIS and EFC4788/ADONIS 
EURIDIS  is  EURopean  trial  In  AF  or  flutter  patients  receiving  DRO  for  the  maintenance  of  Sinus 
rhythm.  It  was  conducted  in  65  active  centres  in  12  European  countries:  in  the  period  between: 
November, 2001 and August, 2003.  ADONIS is: American-Australian-African trial with DRO In AF 
or flutter patients for the maintenance of Sinus rhythm, conducted in 101 active centres in 5 countries: 
USA,  Canada,  Australia,  South  Africa  and  Argentina  in  the  period  between:  November,  2001  and 
September, 2003.  Due to the similarities in the study design in both studies, they will be presented 
together. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients included in these studies were of either sex aged 21 years or older, in sinus rhythm for at least 
1 hour at the time of randomization and with at least one ECG-documented  AF/AFL episode in the 
last 3 months were included. The main exclusion criteria were New York Heart Association (NYHA) 
class III and IV congestive heart failure (CHF); second degree AV block or higher, or significant sinus 
node disease (documented pause of 3 seconds or more) without a permanent pacemaker implanted; QT 
>500 msec; documented AF/AFL episode motivating inclusion in the study starting and not persisting 
beyond 10 days after an acute condition known to cause AF/AFL (eg, alcohol intake, thyrotoxicosis, 
infection,  myocardial  infarction,  pericarditis,  pulmonary  embolism,  cardiac  surgery);  antiarrhythmic 
therapy  (see  below),  patients  in  whom  amiodarone  or  3  or  more  Class  I  or  III  antiarrhythmic  drugs 
prescribed for sinus rhythm maintenance were discontinued for inefficacy. 
                           23/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
These were two multi-centre, multinational, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled studies 
assessing the efficacy of DRO 400 mg BID versus placebo for the maintenance of normal sinus 
rhythm after conversion of AF/AFL 
Fig: Overall Design EURIDIS/ADONIS 
Objectives 
The primary objective of these studies was to assess the efficacy of DRO 400 mg BID versus placebo 
for  the  maintenance  of  normal  sinus  rhythm  after  electrical,  pharmacological  or  spontaneous 
conversion  of  AF/AFL.  The  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were:  symptomatic  AF/AFL  among  the 
adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence, time elapsed in days between Day 5 midnight (steady state) and 
the  adjudicated  first  AF/AFL  recurrence  within  12  months  from  randomization,  ventricular  rate 
assessed at the time of the adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  the  study  was  the  time  from  randomization  to  first  documented 
AF/AFL recurrence defined as an episode lasting 10 minutes or more, as indicated by 2 consecutive 
12-lead ECG or TTEM tracings recorded approximately 10 minutes apart and both showing AF/AFL.  
Sample size 
A total sample size of 552 patients was planned for each study with a ratio of 2 DRO patients for 1 
placebo  patient  in  each  study  (368  patients  in  the  DRO  400  mg  BID  group,  and  184  in  the  placebo 
group) in order to maximize the number of patients on study drug.  Sample size determination were 
computed based on Lachin and Foulkes formulas to detect a relative decrease of at least 25% between 
DRO and placebo with 90% power using a log-rank test of equality of survival curves with 5% two-
sided  significance  level,  assuming  60%  of  patients  on  placebo  would  have  a  recurrence  within  12 
months, a common drop out rate of 20% and a recruitment period of 12 months. 
Randomisation and blinding 
These were a double-blind study.  Two parallel groups of patients in each study were allocated 
according to central randomization 
                           24/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
All  statistical  analyses  were  performed  using  two-sided  tests  and/or  two-sided  confidence  intervals 
(CIs). Unless otherwise specified, Fisher’s exact tests were used for qualitative parameters.  
RESULTS 
Primary endpoint 
The time from randomization to adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence within 12 months is presented on 
Figure  1.  Overall,  DRO  400 mg  BID  significantly  lowered,  by  25%,  the  risk  of  first  recurrence  of 
AF/AFL within the 12-month study period compared to placebo. The median time from randomization 
to adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence in the DRO 400 mg BID group was 2.2-fold longer than in the 
placebo group. The on-treatment analysis in the PP population, confirmed the results of the primary 
analysis. The time to recurrence was significantly longer in the DRO versus placebo group (Log-rank 
test,  p  =  0.0131  for  EURIDIS  and  p=0.0018  for  ADONIS).  At  12  months,  64.1%  of  DRO  400  mg 
BID-treated patients were estimated (Kaplan-Meier) to have experienced a first AF/AFL recurrence, 
compared to 75.2% of placebo-treated patients. 
e
c
n
e
d
i
c
n
i
e
v
i
t
a
l
u
m
u
C
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Placebo   
400 mg BID
0
60
120
180
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Number at risk:
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
409
400 mg BID 828
400 mg BID
400 mg BID
400 mg BID
400 mg BID
400 mg BID
192
450
156
389
133
347
Figure 1 Time to adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence 
270
112
307
360
Days
90
262
However,  a  median  difference  of  63  days  time  from  randomization  to  adjudicated  first  AF/AFL 
recurrence within 12 months again raises the issue of clinical relevance, in particular as the difference 
in recurrence rate after 12 months of approximately 10% is less than seen in the DAFNE study after 6 
months. At one year the absolute benefit for the primary endpoint of AF/AFL recurrence is 11.2% and 
11.8% in EURIDIS and ADONIS respectively. The NNT to prevent one event is 12 and 9 in EURIDIS 
and  ADONIS  respectively.  In  the  SAFE-T  study1  (a  three-armed  study,  comparing  the  time  to  AF 
recurrence  between  amiodarone,  sotalol  and  placebo),  the  median  time  to  recurrence  of  AF  seems 
more clinically relevant compared to the EURIDIS/ADONIS study results. This was a major efficacy 
objection raised during the first assessment. According to the MAH, in the SAFE-T the counting of 
AF recurrences started almost one month after the beginning of treatment when blood and tissue levels 
of  the  study  drugs  were  at  steady-state,  effective  levels.  In  EURIDIS/ADONIS  patients  were 
randomized  while  in  sinus  rhythm,  with  the  counting  of  AF/AFL  recurrences  starting  at 
randomization, well before DRO reached effective plasma and tissue levels. According to the CHMP 
this  explanation  appeared  plausible,  although  it  is  not  unlikely  that  differences  in  study  population 
may have contributed to different outcomes too. These questions could only be definitely answered by 
a  head-to-head  comparative  study  within  one  study  population  as  recommended  by  the  NfG  on 
antiarrythmics  (CPMP/EWP/237/95).  Although  such  studies  may  need  to  restrict  specific  patient 
populations, they are necessary to clearly define the place of DRO in AF/AFL therapy. The results of 
the  comparative  study of DRO  DIONYSOS  against  amiodarone  currently  submitted  helped  to  solve 
this issue (see below).  
1 N. Eng J Med 352; 18; 2005 
                           25/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Regarding  patients  with  atrial  flutter  AFL,  further  analysis  of  the  data  (Day  150  of  the  previous 
assessment) showed that a subpopulation of 131 (out of 828) patients with AFL were recruited in the 
EURIDIS/ADONIS.  The  efficacy  results  in  maintenance  of  sinus  rhythm  in  the  AFL  patients  were 
comparable to those described with AF. Regarding rate control, it did not reach the ESC recommended 
targets. The extent of rate control for patients with AFL who did not have an AF/AFL recurrence is 
unknown in the EURIDIS/ADONIS studies. Furthermore, no impact on symptom relief in this patient 
population is known precluding any conclusions. 
Secondary endpoints 
Symptomatic AF/AFL recurrence among first recurrence 
Overall, the adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence was associated with symptoms in 58.7% (304/518) 
of  patients  in  the  DRO  400 mg  BID  group  (55.1%  in  EURIDIS,  62.6%  in  ADONIS,  Sec. 5.3.5.1), 
versus 61.1% (184/301) in the placebo group (61.3% in EURIDIS, 61.0% ADONIS). 
Time between steady state and adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence  
Overall, DRO 400 mg BID significantly lowered by 28%, the risk of first recurrence of AF/AFL from 
Day  5  midnight  compared  to  placebo.    The  median  time  from  presumed  steady  state  to  adjudicated 
first AF/AFL recurrence in the DRO 400 mg BID group was 2-fold longer than in the placebo group. 
At 12 months, 53.8% of DRO 400 mg BID-treated patients were estimated to have experienced a first 
AF/AFL recurrence, compared to 66.2% of placebo-treated patients.  
Effects on ventricular rate in case of recurrence 
Heart rate assessed at time of adjudicated first AF/AFL recurrence during study period up to Day 365 
is  summarized  in  Table  E12.  DRO  400 mg  BID-treated  patients  had  significantly  lower  mean  heart 
rates  at  the  time  of  the  first  AF/AFL  recurrence  in  both  EURIDIS  and  ADONIS  studies  (TTEM 
method, p<0.0001, ANOVA and p=0.0009, ANOVA, respectively; p<0.0001 for the pool of EURIDIS 
/ADONIS).  
Ancillary analyses 
The time from randomization to first hospitalization or death within 12 months is summarized in table 
below.  Overall,  the  risk  of  first  hospitalization  or death  within  the 12-month  period  was  significantly 
reduced by 27% with DRO 400 mg BID compared to placebo. 22.8% of DRO -treated patients were 
estimated to have a first hospitalization or death at 12 months, compared to 30.9% of placebo-treated 
patients.  
Table: Unadjusted analysis of time from randomization to first hospitalization or death within 
12 months - randomized and treated patients population EURIDIS/ADONIS 
EFC3153/EURIDIS 
Dronedarone
Placebo  400 mg BID Placebo 
EFC4788/ADONIS 
Dronedaro
ne 
400 mg 
BID 
(N=417) 
84 
(N=208) 
47 
Pooled 
Dronedaro
ne 
400 mg 
BID 
(N=828) 
160 
Placebo
(N=409)
101 
(N=201) 
54 
(N=411) 
76 
0.659 [0.465;0.934] 
0.01834 
0.799 [0.559;1.142] 
0.217 
0.726 [0.566;0.931] 
0.01134 
Number  of  patients  with 
endpoints 
Relative risk with 95% CIa 
Log-rank's  test  result  (p-
value) 
a Determined from Cox regression model 
                           26/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Study EFC4508/ERATO 
This  was  a  multicentre,  multinational,  double-blind,  randomized,  parallel-group,  placebo-controlled 
study.  About  160  patients  with  AF  at  rest  were  to  be  randomized  to  receive  DRO  400  mg  BID  or 
placebo. The planned treatment duration for each patient was 6 months to assess the efficacy of DRO 
for the control of ventricular rate in patients with AF at rest. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
There were two inclusions criteria: a) Patients of either sex aged 21 years or older, with symptomatic 
(any  AF-related  symptoms  including  palpitations),  permanent  AF  (defined  as  duration  of  AF>6 
months) for which cardioversion was not considered. b) Resting ventricular rate ≥ 80 bpm at screening 
measured  on  a  6-second  rhythm  strip.  The  main  exclusion  criteria  were  NYHA  class  III  and  IV; 
second degree AV block or higher; antiarrhythmic therapy (see below). 
Treatments 
This  was  a  multicentre,  multinational,  double-blind,  randomized,  parallel-group,  placebo-controlled 
study.  About  160  patients  with  AF  at  rest  were  to  be  randomized  to  receive  DRO  400  mg  BID  or 
placebo.  The  planned  treatment  duration  for  each  patient  was  6  months  (Figure  E7).  The  effects  of 
dronedarone  administered  on  top  of  standard  therapy  on  HR  were  measured  using  a  24-hour  Holter 
recording starting after a 2-week administration, and compared to those in the placebo group. Previous 
studies  had  shown  that  at  this  time  PK  and  pharmacodynamic  (PD)  steady  state  were  reached.  The 
effects on ventricular rate during exercise and exercise performance were assessed using a symptom-
limited exercise test coupled, in a subset of patients, to gas exchange analysis. Long term efficacy was 
confirmed  by  a  second  24-hour  Holter  recording  after  4  months  of  treatment.  An  end-of-study  visit 
was done at 6 months +10 to 15 days 
                           27/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Fig Study Design ERATO 
Objectives 
To assess the efficacy of DRO for the control of ventricular rate in patients with AF at rest. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the change in mean HR measured by a 24-hour Holter recording at 
rest  on  Day  14  (steady  state)  compared  to  baseline.  The  main  secondary  efficacy  variable  was  the 
exercise tolerance on Day 14 compared to baseline (maximal exercise duration defined as time elapsed 
between  the  start  of  the  exercise  test  and  its  stop).  The  other  secondary  efficacy  variables  were: 
evaluation of exercise performance: difference in HR at sub-maximal and maximal exercise between 
baseline  and  Day  14;  to  document  that  exercise  performance  was  not  diminished  by  the  expected 
decrease in HR; difference for each gas exchange parameter and for SBP between baseline and Day 14 
(at rest, sub- maximal, anaerobic threshold and maximal intensity); difference for anaerobic threshold 
between  baseline  and  Day  14;  difference  in  heart  rate  evaluated  by  the  24-hour  Holter  recording 
between baseline and Month 4. 
Sample size 
174 patients were randomized and treated. Of the 174 randomized patients, 85 received DRO and 89 
received placebo. Demographic characteristics in the all randomized patient population were similar in 
the 2 treatment groups. Demographic characteristics in the PP population were similar to those of the 
all randomized patient population. 
Randomisation and blinding 
This was a double-blind study. Treatment was assigned to either DRO or placebo by randomization in 
a 1:1 proportion.  
Statistical methods 
Primary  Analysis:  summaries  on  changes  from  baseline  were  derived  from  ANCOVA  and  Rubin’s 
rule: (1) mean change from baseline (adjusted for age, baseline Holter HR value, and baseline intake 
of beta-blockers, calcium antagonists and digitalis) for each treatment group, as well as standard error 
and 95% CIs; (2) difference between change from baseline, as well as standard error and 95% CIs. 
Secondary  analysis  of  primary  endpoint:  the  same  ANCOVA  was  performed  in  the  all  randomized 
patient population with non-missing primary endpoint evaluation (sensitivity analysis) and in the PP 
population. 
RESULTS 
The patient population recruited for this study included permanent AF patients defined as having AF 
for more than 6 months. No patients with AFL were recruited, precluding any claims. The same dose 
of 400 mg BID was chosen for this study based on the results of the dose finding study DAFNE and 
further  confirmed  in  the  EURIDIS/ADONIS  studies.  The  studied  patients  and  their  concomitant 
medications can be considered representative of the claimed population, although numbers are small. 
The primary efficacy variable was the change in mean HR measured by a 24-hour Holter recording at 
rest on Day 14 (steady state) compared to baseline. Duration of the study is limited to 4 months, which 
is still considered sufficient to assess maintenance of effect on heart rate. Results showed a significant 
effect  on  mean  heart  rate  compared  to  baseline  at  rest  in  the  DRO  group  compared  to  the  placebo 
group when measured after 14 days of treatment (table below). 
                           28/46  
© EMEA 2009 
Table: 24-hour Holter heart rate (bpm) after 14 days ERATO 
Comparable reductions were also shown during maximal exercise (–28 vs. –3 bpm). Holter monitoring 
after  4  months  showed  maintenance  of  the  effect  without  interaction  with  other  heart-rate  lowering 
agents (beta blockers, calcium antagonists and digitalis). However, these reductions in heart rate were 
not accompanied by improvement in exercise testing, or by improvement in gas exchange parameters, 
anaerobic  threshold,  nor  in  symptom  scores,  limiting  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  findings.  Two 
studies  have  been  performed  (AFFIRM,  RACE)  suggesting  that  a  rate  control  strategy  might  be 
acceptable at least for some patients, but this has not been tested in the ERATO study.  
Study EFC5555/ATHENA 
In support of the new proposed indication reduction of CV hospitalization or death from any cause in 
patients with AF/AFL or a history of AF/AFL, the applicant submitted the results of one confirmatory 
study ATHENA: A placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel arm Trial to assess the efficacy of DRO 
400  mg  bid  for  the  prevention  of  CV  Hospitalization  or  death  from  any  cause  in  patiENts  with 
AF/atrial flutter (AF/AFL). 
METHODS 
Study Participants 
Originally, patients ≥70 years in sinus rhythm or in AF/AFL could be included. All patients were to 
have at least 1 risk factor (including age, hypertension, diabetes, prior cerebro-vascular accident, left 
atrium  (LA)  diameter  greater  than  or  equal  to  50  mm  or  left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  less  than 
0.40). Available ECG within the previous 6 months documenting that the patient was or is in AF/AFL 
or sinus rhythm  was necessary. To ensure sufficient recruitment, an amendment in the protocol was 
made to allow recruitment of patients aged 75 years with or without additional risk factors. The main 
exclusion criteria were: permanent AF; NYHA class IV CHF; second degree AV block or higher, or 
significant  sinus  node  disease  (documented  pause  of  3  seconds  or  more)  without  a  permanent 
pacemaker  implanted;  bradycardia  <50  bpm  and/or  PR-interval  ≥0.28  sec  on  the  last  12-lead  ECG; 
patients  in  whom  concomitant  medication  with  Class  I  or  III  antiarrhythmic  drugs  were  necessary; 
plasma potassium <3.5 mmol/L. Through a protocol amendment, patients with calculated glomerular 
filtration  rate  (GFR)  at  baseline  <10  mL/min  using  the  Cockroft  Gault  formula  were  also  excluded. 
The identified high risk patients in the previous studies e.g. patients ≥ 75 years and females patients 
were  well  represented  (41%  and  46%  respectively).  More  patients  were  administered  beta-blockers, 
digoxin and calcium channel blockers than those reported in the previous phase III studies. This could 
allow identification of any associated risk in this AF/AFL population.  
The 2 treatment groups were well-balanced for baseline CV examination and history. Despite 
the wide inclusion criteria, patients with NYHA III or LVEF<30% formed only 4% of the recruited 
patients which questions the robustness of any results pertaining to these subgroups. The CV history of 
the recruited patients shown in table E3 illustrates that hypertension was the predominant associated 
morbidity.  
Baseline  creatinine  clearance  was  balanced  between  the  two  treatment  groups.  DRO  is 
primarily  metabolized  by  the  liver,  but  the  effect  of  administration  of  DRO  in  patients  with  severe 
renal  insufficiency  is  particularly  important  considering  that  one  of  the  risk  factors  associated  with 
mortality in the ANDROMEDA study was baseline creatinine clearance. (see further discussion under 
Safety) 
                           29/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
This  was  a  multicenter,  multinational,  double-blind,  randomized,  parallel-arm,  placebo-controlled 
study evaluating the effects of DRO 400 mg BID versus placebo over a minimal follow-up period of 
12 months in patients with AF/AFL or a history of AF/AFL with additional risk factors. 
Patients  first  entered  a  screening  period  for  a  maximum  of  7  days.  After  randomization,  all 
patients were to be followed until the common study end date, which was to be 1 year after the last 
patient  was  randomized.  Thus  the  minimum  follow-up  time  was  to  be  12  months.  Patients  could  be 
randomized  in  the  study  while  in  sinus  rhythm  if  conversion  had  occurred  either  spontaneously  or 
following  a  procedure  such  as  electrical  cardioversion  (or  overdrive  pacing)  or  administration  of  an 
anti-arrhythmic drug. Patients could also be randomized while in AF/AFL, and in this case they could 
undergo cardioversion after appropriate anticoagulation.  
Concomitant medications like beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and digoxin were also 
permitted, with caution as in the previous studies. The prescribed up-titration of initial low dose CCB, 
beta-blockers  and  digoxin  under  ECG  guidance  is  reflected  in  the  proposed  SPC.  There  were  three 
amendments  to  the  protocol  of  the  Athena  study,  including  modification  of  the  inclusion  criteria, 
increase in the sample size and classification of all deaths for descriptive purposes and a substudy of 
symptoms according to the Bubien and Kay scale. According to the applicant the first 2 amendments 
were implemented in order to prevent a lowering of the event rate and allowed recruitment of patients 
with higher CV risk. The Applicant provided detailed analysis of the results obtained before and after 
the interim analysis. According to the analysis the observations made in both populations for primary 
and  secondary  endpoints  were  consistent  validating  the  pooling  of  the  data  before  and  after  the 
amendments. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  DRO  400  mg  BID  in  preventing  CV 
hospitalizations  or  death  from  any  cause  in  patients  with  AF/AFL  or  a  history  of  AF/AFL  with 
additional risk factors. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  the  study  was  the  time  from  randomization  to  first  CV 
hospitalization  or  death  from  any  cause,  whatever  was  earlier,  as  assessed  by  the  Investigator.  Pre-
defined  main  causes  for  non-planned  CV  hospitalizations  were  specified.  Death  was  defined  as  any 
death in a participating patient during the study period. The secondary efficacy endpoints were time 
from randomization to: (1) death from any cause, (2) first CV hospitalization, (3) CV death. 
Sample size 
This is the largest clinical study submitted in the current application (or in the indication of AF yet) 
recruiting around 4000 patients, evaluating the effects of DRO 400 mg BID versus placebo (ratio 1:1) 
over  a  minimum  treatment  and  follow-up  duration  of  12  months  in  patients  with  paroxysmal  or 
persistent  AF/AFL.  Patients  aged  75  years  or  older  were  eligible  with  or  without  additional  risk 
factors. Alternatively, patients of at least 70 years of age were eligible if one or more of the following 
risk  factors  are  present:  hypertension,  diabetes,  prior  cerebro-vascular  accident,  left  atrium  (LA) 
diameter ≥50 mm or LVEF< than 0.40. The inclusion criteria allow investigating DRO under realistic 
circumstances.  
Randomisation and blinding 
This was a double-blind study. Two parallel groups of patients were allocated to DRO 400 mg BID or 
placebo according to central randomization. The randomization was performed in a 1:1 ratio, stratified 
by study centre and by the presence of AF/AFL at randomization time.  
Statistical methods 
Primary endpoint: the efficacy analysis considered all assessments from randomization to the end of 
study  date,  which  was  defined  as  the  final  follow-up  visit/last  contact  date  or  the  date  of  death, 
whatever came first. The primary analysis was the comparison of the time from randomization to the 
primary endpoint between the 2 treatment groups using a 2-sided log-rank asymptotic test. Cumulative 
incidence functions in each treatment group were calculated and plotted using non-parametric Kaplan-
Meier  estimate.  The  corresponding  95%  confidence  interval  (CI)  was  computed  at  each  scheduled 
                           30/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
time-point of the protocol using Greenwood’s variance estimation. The hazard ratio with 95% CI was 
estimated  using  a  Cox  model  with  treatment  group  as  the  only  factor.  Acceptability  of  proportional 
hazards assumption was checked graphically, plotting the natural logarithm of the cumulative hazard 
Kaplan-Meier estimate versus the natural logarithm of time for each treatment group. 
Secondary endpoints: In order to protect the global type I error of 5%, a hierarchical procedure was to 
be applied to the secondary efficacy endpoints. “All deaths whatever the cause” was to be tested first, 
then testing of “CV hospitalization” was to be performed, and then “CV death” was to be tested lastly. 
The same analysis approach as for the primary endpoint was used for all secondary endpoints. 
RESULTS 
Participants flow 
Patient disposition in ATHENA 
N = population size; n = sample size; IVRS = interactive voice response system; BID = twice daily; 
AE = adverse event. Other reasons included: AF/AFL recurrence, family request, and treatment with 
prohibited medications. 
The primary endpoint of the incidence of CV hospitalization or death from any cause was significantly 
reduced when using DRO 400 mg BID compared with placebo (table and figure below). At one year 
the absolute benefit for the primary endpoint (first CV hospitalization or death from any cause) is 
7.4%. NNT to prevent one event is 16. 
                           31/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Table : Unadjusted analysis of time from randomization to first CV hospitalization or death 
from any cause – all randomized patients- ATHENA 
Number of events, n 
Median survival [95% CI](day) 
Cumulative incidence of events at 6 months [95% CI] 0.202 [ 0.185 ; 0.218]
Cumulative incidence of events at 1 year [95% CI] 
0.302 [ 0.283 ; 0.320]
Cumulative incidence of events at 2 years [95% CI]  0.422 [ 0.400 ; 0.444]
Endpoint's composition: 
Placebo* 
(N= 2327)  
917 (39,4%) 
NA 
DRO 400 mg BID* 
(N= 2301) 
734 (31,89%) 
NA 
0.147 [ 0.132 ; 0.161 ] 
0.228 [ 0.211 ; 0.245 ] 
0.354 [ 0.332 ; 0.377 ] 
Cardiovascular hospitalization 
Death from any cause 
- Cardiovascular death 
- Non cardiovascular death 
Log-rank test p-value 
Relative risk [95% CI]a 
a Determined from cause-specific Cox regression mode 
* - percentage calculated by the assessor using a binomial approach 
859 (36,9%) 
58 (2,49%) 
33 (1,41%) 
25 (1,07%) 
675 (29,3) 
59 (2,56%) 
26 (1,12%) 
33 (1,43%) 
2E-8 
0.758 [ 0.688; 0.835] 
Figure: Kaplan-Meier cumulative incidence curves from randomization to A. first 
cardiovascular hospitalization or death from any cause –all randomized patients- ATHENA 
The  results  are  mainly  driven  by  the  number  of  CV  hospitalization;  the  incidence  of  death  was  not 
significantly  different  between  the  two  groups  [n=  58  (2.49%)  and  n=59  (2.56%)]  precluding  any 
claims on that point. However, in light of the results of the ANDROMEDA study, it is reassuring that 
no increased overall mortality was seen in the DRO group. This effect was adequately shown till 24 
months; thereafter the number of patients at risk is too few to allow any conclusions.  
The  results  of  the  primary  endpoint  of  ATHENA  pointed  that  DRO  decreased  the  risk  of  CV 
hospitalizations  [29.3%  (675/2301)  vs.  36.9%  (856/2327)  compared  to  placebo].  That  was  mainly 
driven by a reduction in AF-related hospitalizations (12.9% (296/2301 versus 19.6% (457/2327)] i.e. 
44%  and  53%  of  all  CV  hospitalizations  in  the  DRO  and  placebo  groups  respectively.  Collectively, 
other reasons for CV hospitalizations account for 16.4% in the DRO group and 17.3% in the Placebo 
group with a difference of 0.9%. One major objection was posed against the claim of “reduction of CV 
hospitalizations”.  The  applicant  was  requested  to  show  a  definite  reduction  in  CV-hospitalizations 
beyond  those  that  could  be  attributed  to  the  rate  and  rhythm  regulating  properties  of  DRO  in  the 
treatment  of  AF.  In  their  response,  the  applicant  has  failed  to  adequately  address  this  point  as  such 
data was not collected at time of hospital admission, a major failing in ATHENA. From the currently 
submitted admission data, the main reason for admission was still not identified in a large number of 
cases  (7.9%  and  5.6%  in  of  the  placebo  and  DRO  groups  respectively)  where  no  electrical 
cardioversion or CHF was reported.  
                           32/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
A  post-hoc  analysis  from  seven  countries  accounting  for  58%  of  the  total  number  of  CV 
hospitalizations contributing to the primary endpoint of the study (placebo= 246 and DRO=159) was 
presented.  This  post-hoc  analysis  is  subject  to  a  possible  selection  bias.  Data  show  that  the  main 
reasons  associated  with  first  CV  hospitalization  adjudicated  post-hoc  as  AF/AFL  were  related  to 
pharmacological  or  non-pharmacological  treatment  related  to  the  arrhythmias  (88.2%  for  placebo 
versus  81.8%  for  DRO)  and  associated  symptoms  of  AF/AFL  (72%  for  placebo  versus  74.2%  for 
DRO). A benefit of DRO can be observed in these cases suggesting that its beneficial effect on AF-
related hospitalisations is mainly due to its antiarrhythmic properties. Besides, a benefit was seen in 
the number of hospitalisations due to adjustment of antithrombotic/anticoagulant treatment. 
Additional analyses showed that a larger benefit for DRO in the reduction of CV-hospitalizations was 
shown  in  patients  with  permanent  AF/AFL  throughout  the  study  compared  to  patients  who  were  in 
permanent sinus rhythm, but the numbers of this subgroup are too few precluding any conclusions. In 
patients with non-permanent AF/AFL, a slightly higher percent was recorded with hospitalizations due 
to myocardial infarction in the DRO group compared to the placebo group, but, again, the numbers are 
too few to allow robust conclusions. Although some benefit was seen with DRO in patients in sinus 
rhythm  (reported  higher  frequency  of major  bleeding  in  the  placebo  group  [n=12,  1.6%  versus  n=7, 
0.8%] associated with a lower pulmonary embolism/deep venous thrombosis [PE/DVT] compared to 
the  DRO  group  [n=1,0.1%  versus  n=5,  0.6%]),  this  effect  is  not  shown  with  the  general  ATHENA 
cohort group.  Otherwise, the results are consistent across the baseline selected characteristics and the 
geographical regions. No target group could be specifically defined. 
At  baseline,  around  75%  of  the  patients  were  in  sinus  rhythm.  At  time  of  CV  hospitalization,  this 
percentage  is  reversed  in  the  post-hoc  group  where  most  of  the  patients  are  with  AF/AFL.  More 
patients in the DRO group (38.5%) were in sinus rhythm than in the placebo group (24.8%) at the time 
of first CV-hospitalisation. Similarly more patients in the DRO group (17.9%) hospitalised with AF-
AFL related hospitalisation were in sinus rhythm at the time of first CV-hospitalization than placebo 
(12.8%). At the time of CV-hospitalization, the recorded heart rate was generally lower in the DRO 
group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  This  is  an  expected  finding  considering  the  mechanism  of 
action of DRO. The impact of DRO treatment on duration of hospitalization appears to be minimal on 
the  total  number  of  nights  (mean  nights=  7.8  and  7.5  for  placebo  and  DRO  respectively)  but  with 
slightly  better  results  on  the  nights  spent  in  ICU/CCU  (mean  nights  4.7  and  3.9  respectively).  The 
number of deaths from  any cause on study (secondary endpoint) was  comparable between the DRO 
(116/2301)  and  placebo  (139/2327).  The  incidence  of  non-CV  deaths  was  numerically  higher  in  the 
DRO group (51 vs. 45 in the placebo group). 
During  the  on-study  period,  DRO  significantly  decreased  by  30.2%  the  incidence  of  CV  death 
(secondary endpoint) compared with placebo (p=0.0252). The reduction of CV death with DRO 400 
mg BID was mainly due to a reduction in sudden cardiac deaths and stroke. The reduction in sudden 
cardiac death further alleviates the concerns regarding the possible pro-arrhythmic potential of DRO 
raised  following  the  ANDROMEDA  study  (described  below).  Very  few  numbers  of  deaths  due  to 
heart failure were recorded in both groups (DRO 0.6%; placebo 0.4%) which are reassuring. 
risk  analysis 
Subgroup Analysis 
Relative 
(DRO  400  mg  BID  versus  placebo)  based  on  some  baseline 
characteristics/medications  did  not  show  any  significant  interactions  for  the  primary  endpoint. 
Similarly  no  significant  interactions  were  seen  for  all  death  or  CV  deaths  except  with  diuretics  use 
which  was  associated  with  a  significant  reduction  in  RR.  The  exact  relation  is  not  established,  but 
according to the applicant, this could either be due to chance or related to different patient profile or 
related  to  the  pharmacological  activity  of  DRO  on  potassium  homeostasis.  On  the  other  hand,  there 
was a trend for higher relative risk in patients below 65 years (n=875; RR: 1.19; 95%CI: 0.58-2.43). 
Further  analysis  of  the  data  revealed  no  specific  causes  of  death  for  the  recorded  trend.  A  causal 
relationship appears unlikely.  
In the subgroup of patients in sinus rhythm at randomization, DRO 400 mg BID significantly delayed 
the time to first AF/AFL recurrence and significantly lowered the risk of first recurrence of AF/AFL 
compared to placebo, by 25.1% (RR: 0.749; 95% CI: 0.681-0.824).  
                           33/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment  of  symptoms  according  to  the  Bubien  and  Kay  scale  did  not  show  any  significant 
treatment  effects  of  DRO  on  AF-related  symptoms.  This  substudy  was  implemented  in  a  protocol 
amendment  and  according  to  the  applicant,  baseline  AF-related  symptoms  are  lacking  in  ATHENA. 
This complicates the interpretation of the results.  
Another  major  objection  related  to  patients  in  atrial  flutter  (AFL),  as  no  separate  analysis  was 
presented for these patients. The recruited patient subgroup with AFL at baseline was small (n= 104; 
placebo= 55 and DRO= 49) making it difficult to draw robust conclusions in this subgroup based on 
the ATHENA results therefore no claim on AFL could be made.  
According to the applicant in the ATHENA study, fewer patients in the DRO group had a successful 
electrical  cardioversion  (n=305)  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (n=430),  but  the  total  number  of 
cardioversions was not reported. The timing of this cardioversion to drug intake was not specified by 
the applicant precluding any conclusion about the reason for the less successful rate of cardioversion 
in the DRO group. Furthermore, once a cardioversion is performed, no benefit is shown for DRO to 
prolong  the  time  to  recurrence.  These  data  do  not  support  administering  DRO  as  a  pre-treatment 
before electro-conversion. 
Generally,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  recorded  heart  rate  in  patients  in  AF  in  ATHENA  is 
comparable to those in ERATO. On day 14 in ERATO, AF patients (only AF patients were recruited 
in ERATO) on DRO had a mean heart rate of 76.2±1.4 bpm compared to a mean ± SD of 78.5 ± 18.23 
bpm  recorded  in  ATHENA.  A  benefit  was  shown  regarding  CV  hospitalisations  for  patients  with 
persistent AF throughout ATHENA in time to first CV hospitalization, although the numbers are too 
few for robust conclusions. The submitted data for patients in SR or AF at baseline show that DRO 
significantly reduced HR throughout ATHENA compared to placebo. The HR at time of AF/AFL at 
recurrence was not submitted as it was not recorded systematically.  
In summary, the majority of the CV hospitalizations are attributed to AF-related causes. The benefit in 
other non-AF related reasons amounts to 0.9%. The exact reason for AF-related hospitalizations is still 
not  known,  but  could  probably  be  related  to  the  need  for  pharmacological  interventions  for  the 
treatment of the arrhythmias. No benefit was shown in the incidence of time to death.  
Study EFC4968/ DIONYSOS 
An actively-controlled study was considered essential in order to establish the place of DRO in clinical 
practice. DIONYSOS was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-arm study to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety  of  DRO  (400  mg  BID)  versus  amiodarone  (600  mg  daily  for  28  days,  then  200  mg  daily 
thereafter) for at least 6 months for the maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with AF.  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients with a documented AF for more than 72 hours, for whom cardioversion and antiarrhythmic 
treatment were indicated in the opinion of the Investigators, and who were receiving anticoagulants. 
Patients  with  clinically  overt  CHF,  NYHA  III  and  NYHA  IV  were  excluded  in  this  study.  This 
exclusion takes into account the uncertain safety profile of DRO in this patient population. 
Treatments 
Patients with a documented AF for more than 72 hours, for whom cardioversion and antiarrhythmic 
treatment  were  indicated  in  the  opinion  of  the  Investigators,  and  who  were  receiving  anticoagulants 
were to be randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to DRO or amiodarone as shown in figure below. 
                           34/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*R : Randomization 
SSED: Scheduled Study End Date = Last patient randomization date + 190 days (6 months on treatment + 10 days) 
Figure: Design of DIONYSOS. 
The choice of the loading dose of amiodarone (600 mg for 4 weeks) is higher than that used in many 
EU countries, though is admittedly still lower than that used in the SAFE-T study. 
Objectives  
The objective of the study was to demonstrate that DRO is superior to amiodarone and to evaluate the 
safety of DRO compared to amiodarone.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  a  combined  endpoint  of  first  occurrence  of  either  recurrence  of  AF  or 
premature  study  drug  discontinuation  for  intolerance  or  lack  of  efficacy.  A  combination  of  efficacy 
and safety is not a preferred endpoint considering the difficulty in interpretation of data. In this case, it 
was  probably  anticipated  by  the  applicant  that  DRO  may  not  demonstrate  higher  efficacy,  but  is 
probably better tolerated than amiodarone and accordingly the combined endpoint.  
Sample size 
A  total  of  618  patients  were  screened  for  the  study.  Five-hundred  and  four  (504)  patients  were 
randomized and treated, 249 patients in the DRO group and 255 in the amiodarone group. No patients 
were lost to follow-up. 
Randomisation and blinding 
Patients were randomised in a ratio 1 :1 to DRO or amiodarone.  
RESULTS 
There was more premature permanent discontinuation of the study drug reported with DRO (38.6%) 
than  amiodarone  (27.1%),  based  mainly  on  lack  of  efficacy  (21.3%  for  DRO  versus  5.5%  for 
amiodarone).  On  the  other  hand,  less  discontinuation  was  reported  with  DRO  due  to  adverse  events 
(12.9%  versus  17.6%  for  amiodarone).  More  patients  in  the  DRO  group  underwent  electrical 
cardioversion less than 9  days after the first drug intake than in the amiodarone group, which could 
reflect an advantage for amiodarone. Still, conversion to sinus rhythm is not a claimed indication for 
DRO.  The  incidence  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  75.1%  and  58.8%  in  the  DRO  and  the 
amiodarone  groups  respectively  after  12  months  of  treatment  (hazard  ratio=1.59,  log-rank  p-value 
<0.0001).  
The efficacy results are especially disappointing for DRO where AF recurrence was shown to be at a 
rate of 63.5% versus 42% for amiodarone. On the other hand, driven mainly by intolerance, there is a 
slight  advantage  of  DRO  over  amiodarone  in  reduction  of  premature  study  drug  discontinuation 
(10.4% versus 13.3% respectively). 
                           35/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety results 
The  applicant  selected  a  main  safety  endpoint  (MSE)  capturing  most  of  the  expected  AEs  of 
amiodarone  (occurrence  of  thyroid,  hepatic,  pulmonary,  neurological,  skin,  eye  AEs)  in  addition  to 
diarrhoea,  a  frequently  reported  AE  with  DRO,  and  premature  study  drug  discontinuation  following 
any  AE.  A  non-significant  relative  risk  reduction  of  19.8%  (p=0.129)  in  the  incidence  of  the  main 
safety endpoint was observed with DRO (table below).  
Table: Composition of the main safety endpoint - All randomized and treated patients 
The advantage of DRO was driven by the occurrence of significantly fewer thyroid and neurological 
events  and  a  trend  for  less  skin  or  ocular  events,  and  fewer  premature  study  drug  discontinuations 
compared to the amiodarone group. More gastrointestinal AEs, mainly diarrhoea, were observed in the 
DRO group. No pulmonary specific events were reported which could have been expected because of 
the short study duration. Seven cases of deaths (2 in the DRO group and 5 in the amiodarone group) 
occurred during the on-treatment period, and 4 additional deaths (2 patients in each treatment group) 
occurred  after  the  end  of  the  on-treatment  period.  The  reported  deaths  appear  in  line  with  what  is 
expected in this patient population. The reported incidence of SAEs also appears balanced between the 
DRO  and  the  amiodarone  treatment  groups.  Adverse  events  leading  to  withdrawal  from  study 
treatment were reported less frequently with DRO (12.9%) than amiodarone group (17.6%). In order 
to further improve the tolerability of DRO the applicant should discuss possible methods to minimize 
diarrhoea  (and  nausea)  which  are  the  most  frequent  causes  of  DRO  discontinuation.This  aspect  is 
addressed in the SPC. 
Generally,  the  CV  safety  profile  of  DRO  appears  comparable  if  not  better  to  that  of 
amiodarone, especially regarding bradyarrhythmia and effect on QT-interval. The higher incidence of 
treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) of the “Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders” 
system organ class reported with DRO (10.0%) compared to 8.2% in the amiodarone group was not 
expected.  DIONYSOS  is  a  short  study  and  these  TEAEs  are  probably  more  related  to  the  general 
disorder (dyspnoea, acute pulmonary oedema), than to pulmonary toxicity reported with amiodarone. 
However, these TEAEs will be followed up in the RMP. 
Based  on  the  results  of  DIONYSOS,  DRO  appears  to  be  less  efficacious  than  amiodarone  in 
maintaining sinus rhythm in patients with a history of AF, but safer in terms of thyroid or neurological 
safety issues, albeit with a higher occurrence of diarrhoea. For other adverse events encountered with 
                           36/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
amiodarone e.g. skin/ocular adverse events, the advantage of DRO is less  clear, but this will need a 
larger cohort of patients studied for a longer period of time. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Due  to  the  similarities  in  the  study  design  in  EURIDIS  and  ADONIS  both  studies  were  presented 
together. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Study EFC4966/ANDROMEDA   
See section: safety in special populations 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  safety  evaluation  in  the  targeted  AF/AFL  patient  population  pooled  across  all  patients  with 
AF/AFL  (DAFNE,  EURIDIS,  ADONIS,  ERATO  and  finally  ATHENA,  excluding  DIONYSOS) 
included 6285 patients of whom 3410 patients were treated with DRO and 2875 patients treated with 
placebo. Of the patients administered DRO, 96.2% were administered the proposed dose 400 mg BID 
with  60.8%,  34.9%  and  12.9  %  exposed  for  a  duration  of  1  year,  1.5  years  and  up  to  2  years 
respectively  which  allows  adequate  assessment  of  long  term  safety.  The  medical  history  and  the 
concomitant medications of the patients are in line with clinical practice. Patients with NYHA class III 
or  LVEF  <35%  are  under-represented  (less  than  4%).  Instead,  these  patients  were  studied  in  study 
EFC4966/ANDROMEDA consisting of 627 patients with CHF II-IV and study DR13151/LTS3841 in 
116 patients with ventricular arrhythmias in whom an ICD was implanted.  
•  Adverse events  
Over  60%  of  all  patients  reported  an  adverse  event  in  the  AF/AFL  population.  The  most  frequent 
adverse reactions observed with DRO 400 mg twice daily in the 5 studies were diarrhoea, nausea and 
vomiting,  fatigue  and  asthenia.  No  dose  response  can  be  observed  for  patients  with  any  TEAEs 
(70.4%; 63.6% and 72.65%) or serious TEAEs (18%; 6.1% and 12.9%) for the DRO 400, 600 and 800 
mg BID respectively. However, more permanent discontinuations due to adverse events were observed 
with the DRO 400  mg BID and 800  mg BID (11.8% vs. 22.6%) as  compared to placebo (7.7%). A 
dose response in the GI disorders (diarrhoea), investigations (QT-prolonged and increased blood urea) 
and cardiac disorders (bradycardia, palpitations and atrial tachycardia) SOCs is observed. With respect 
to the TEAE reported with the recommended dose of 400 mg BID, the highest relative risk incidence 
occurred with increased blood creatinine, “ECG investigations” (mainly prolonged QT interval), “Rate 
and  rhythm  disorders”  (mainly  bradycardia),  “Rashes,  eruptions  and  exanthems”,  “Nausea  and 
vomiting symptoms”, “Diarrhoea (excl infective)”, and “Asthenic conditions” (mainly fatigue).  
The  extra-cardiac  safety  problems  reported  with  amiodarone,  in  particular  respiratory,  thoracic 
and  mediastinal  disorders;  nervous  system  disorders;  endocrine  disorders  and  eye  disorders  were 
reported in comparable frequencies with DRO and placebo. This supports a better extra-cardiac safety 
profile  for  DRO  than  amiodarone.  There  was  a  comparable  incidence  of  haemorrhages  recorded  in 
patients  on  at  least  one  anti-coagulant  in  the  DRO  group  compared  to  placebo  group  alleviating 
previous concerns. One case of toxic hepatitis was reported which is unlikely to be related to the use 
of DRO. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
SAE  occurred  to  a  similar  extent  in  placebo  (19.7%)  and  the  DRO  400  mg  BID  (18.0%)  groups. 
Comparable  incidences  of  serious  events  were  also  observed  for  the  Primary  System  Organ  Class: 
cardiac disorders (1.4% vs. 1.8% for the placebo and DRO 400 mg BID respectively). However within 
that  group,  cases  of  heart  failures  [HLGT]  were  more  commonly  reported  in  the  DRO  400  mg  BID 
group than placebo (0.5% vs. 0.2%). The highest incidence of SAE observed during the ongoing study 
DIONYSOS  occurred  with  cardiac  disorders,  with  cardiac  failure  as  the  leading  cause  (1%).  In  the 
AF/AFL population, the incidences of all deaths and CV deaths were numerically lower in the DRO 
400 mg BID than the placebo groups. 
                           37/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding  the  pro-arrhythmic  potential,  the  current  data  show  that  the  RR  of  ventricular  arrhythmia 
and cardiac arrest is 1.61 (CI: 0.78-3.3), however, the incidence of serious adverse events pertaining to 
these events is not worrisome. One case of TdP was reported with DRO 400 mg BID, with risk factors 
for  TdP:  female,  prolonged  QTcB  (522  ms  at  baseline).  Considering  that  preclinical  studies  showed 
that  the  TdP  potential  of  DRO  is  probably  higher  than  that  of  amiodarone,  it  would  be  realistic  to 
predict  the  incidence  of  TdP  for  DRO  in  clinical  practice  to  be  comparable  to  that  of  amiodarone 
(<1%)  if  not  higher.  The  pharmacological  action  of  DRO  may  induce  a  moderate  QTc  Bazett 
prolongation  (about  10 msec),  related  to  prolonged  repolarisation.  These  changes  are  linked  to  the 
therapeutic  effect  of  DRO  and  do  not  reflect  toxicity.  Follow  up,  including  ECG,  is  recommended 
during treatment. If QTc Bazett interval is ≥500 milliseconds, dronedarone should be stopped. 
The ECG data show that DRO decreases heart rate, prolongs PR and QTcB which are in line with 
its  pharmacodynamic  properties.  The  SPC  clearly  identifies  patients  at  possible  risk  and  they  are 
consequently  contraindicated  e.g.  patients  with  second  or  third  degree  heart  block,  bradycardia  <50 
bpm and QTcB interval ≥500 msec. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The  increased  creatininemia  observed  with  DRO  is  another  concern.  Serum  creatinine  levels  were 
significantly but reversibly increased in a large proportion of patients treated with DRO. This was not 
associated  with  a  parallel  increase  in  blood  urea.  It  is  recommended  to  measure  plasma  creatinine 
values 7 days after initiation of DRO. An increase in plasma creatinine has been observed with DRO 
400 mg  twice  daily  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients.  This  increase  occurs  early  after  treatment 
initiation  and  reaches  a  plateau  after  7  days.  If  an  increase  in  creatininemia  is  observed,  this  value 
should be used as the new reference baseline taking into account that this may be expected with DRO. 
An increase in creatininemia should not necessarily lead to the discontinuation of treatment with ACE-
inhibitors  or  Angiotensin  II  Receptors  Antagonists  (AIIRAs).  The  increased  creatininemia  observed 
with DRO is addressed in the RMP. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Patients with congestive heart failure 
Study EFC4966/ANDROMEDA   
This study specifically investigated the potential clinical benefit of DRO 400 mg BID treatment versus 
placebo for reducing death or hospitalization for worsening heart failure in patients with symptomatic 
CHF when added on-top of treatments for CHF NYHA II-IV. The study was discontinued after seven 
months due to the reported higher mortality in the DRO group (n=25) compared to the placebo group 
(n=12)  [RR:  2.13  (95%CI:  1.07-4.25)].  The  applicant  postulated  that  this  increased  mortality  might 
have been related to the observed increase in serum creatinine levels with DRO, which may have led 
investigators to discontinue ongoing treatment with ACE inhibitors/AII receptor antagonists or not to 
initiate  these  treatments.  A  pro-arrhythmic  cause  of  death  was  excluded,  as  there  were  no  cases  of 
torsades de pointes. After an additional 6 months follow-up of study termination, when off DRO, the 
death  rate  had  equalled  between  the  treatment  groups.  This  implies  the  absence  of  long  term 
detrimental effects for DRO.  
A requested analysis concerning ACE-inhibitors /ARBs use in the AF/AFL population (excluding the 
ATHENA  study)  showed  that  in  contrast  to  the  findings  in  ANDROMEDA,  these  drugs  were  not 
discontinued  more  frequently  in  patients  receiving  DRO  than  placebo.  This  finding  is  likely  to  be 
explained by smaller increases of creatinine levels in the AF/AFL patients than in the ANDROMEDA 
population (mean 10 µM vs. 19 µM), which again is in agreement with the reduced renal function in 
patients with symptomatic CHF. Additionally one of the significant prognostic factors for the primary 
endpoints  in  ANDROMEDA  was  a  decreased  baseline  creatinine  clearance  <50  ml/min.  There  are 
remaining  concerns  regarding  administration  of  DRO  in  patients  with  severe  renal  insufficiency. 
Patients  with  Cr  Cl<10  m/.min  were  excluded  in  ATHENA,  and  patients  with  CrCl  ≤30  ml/min 
represented less than 3 % of the patients. The excess of mortality observed in ANDROMEDA can not 
be explained but an effect of baseline creatinine clearance can not be ruled out. Accordingly, patients 
with severe renal impairment CrCl ≤30 ml/min are still recommended to be contraindicated.  
One of the main differences in the recruited patients in ATHENA and ANDROMEDA is the 
patient  hemodynamic  status.  ANDROMEDA  recruited  patients  who  were  hospitalized  with  new  or 
worsening  heart  failure  and  who  had  had  at  least  one  episode  of  shortness  of  breath  on  minimal 
                           38/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
exertion  or  at  rest  ([NYHA  functional  class  III  or  IV)  or  paroxysmal  nocturnal  dyspnoea  within  the 
month before admission. This indicates patients suffering from recurrent attacks of CHF. On the other 
hand,  ATHENA  excluded  any  patient  with  hemodynamic  instability,  such  as  NYHA  IV  within  the 
past  4  weeks.  The  possible  influence  on  these  recruitment  criteria  on  the  respective  results  of  the 
studies  can  not  be  ignored.  Accordingly,  patients  in  unstable  hemodynamic  conditions  are 
contraindicated.  Although  ATHENA  still  recruited  patients  in  NYHA  III,  these  patients  were 
minimally represented 4% (91/2301) and 4.7% (109/2327) of the recruited DRO and placebo groups 
in  ATHENA  at  baseline  respectively).  Likewise,  patients  with  LVEF  <35%  were  minimally 
represented:  4%  (92/  2301)  and  3.7  %  (87/2327)  of  the  recruited  DRO  and  placebo  groups  in 
ATHENA  at  baseline  respectively.  The  results  of  these  subgroups  are  in  line  with  the  general 
ATHENA  population,  but  due  to  their  minimal  representation,  and  to  be  on  the  cautious  side, 
necessitate a warning in section 4.4 of the SPC against the use of DRO in these patients.  
Currently dronaderone is contraindicated in patients with unstable hemodynamic status i.e. NYHA IV 
and unstable NYHA III. Because of limited experience in stable patients with NYHA class III heart 
failure or with LVEF <35%, the use of DRO is not recommended.  
The major safety objections raised during the previous application, mainly due to the higher 
mortality observed in the ANDROMEDA study are largely solved with the submission of the results 
of the ATHENA study. 
Heart  failure  had  a  relative  risk  of  1.17  (CI:  0.84-1.62)  which  is  reassuring.  Still,  a  dose 
response can be observed in the incidence of heart failure raising concerns in patients who are at risk 
of higher exposure. Serious adverse events of heart failure were more commonly reported in the DRO 
400 mg BID group than placebo (0.5% vs. 0.2%). It is difficult to draw a firm conclusion considering 
the scarcity of the recorded cases: 15 vs. 7 cases respectively.  
Women 
Investigating the influence of some intrinsic factors on the incidence of TEAEs, females appear to be 
at higher risk for the development of any TEAE or serious TEAE. This corresponds with the observed 
higher  DRO  plasma  exposure  in  female  patients  in  the  pharmacokinetics  studies.  As  only  one  dose 
scheme is proposed i.e. 400 mg BID, the management of the female population using DRO is expected 
to  be  problematic  in  clinical  practice.  This  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  section  5.2.  The  MAH  should 
present data per gender in the upcoming PSURs. 
Paediatric Population 
There  is  no  experience  in  children  and  adolescents  below  18  years  of  age.  Therefore,  DRO  is  not 
recommended in this population. 
Elderly 
Efficacy and safety were comparable in both elderly and younger patients. Although plasma exposure 
in  elderly  females  was  increased  in  a  pharmacokinetic  study  conducted  in  healthy  subjects,  dose 
adjustments are not considered necessary. 
Hepatic impairment 
DRO is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment because of the absence of data. No 
dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment.  
Renal impairment  
DRO is contraindicated in patients severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance (CrCl) <30 ml/min). 
No dose adjustment is required in other patients with renal impairment. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
DRO  is  primarily  metabolized  by  CYP3A4  and  has  a  moderate  potential  to  inhibit  CYP3A4  and 
CYP2D6, making it a potential candidate for important drug interactions. The relative risk of digitalis 
intoxication  with  co-administration  with  DRO  is  almost  4  fold  in  the  AF/AFL  population.  No 
significant  interactions  were  observed  between  DRO  and  oral  anticoagulants  in  the  submitted  main 
studies  which  is  reassuring  considering  their  frequent  co-administration  in  the  AF  population.  The 
encountered adverse events when beta-blockers or calcium antagonists are concomitantly administered 
with  DRO  are  expected  from  their  pharmacodynamic  properties  and  the  impact  on  TEAEs  appears 
                           39/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
limited.  Overall  drug-drug  interactions  were  manageable  in  the  main  clinical  trials  and  did  not 
influence safety or efficacy to a significant extent. However, specific measures were taken to manage 
anticipated problems in a clinical trial setting. Beta-blockers, Ca-antagonists (diltiazem and verapamil) 
and digoxin had to be co-prescribed at low dose and could only be up-titrated under ECG guidance. 
These precautions are currently reflected in the SPC. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In clinical trials, premature discontinuation due to adverse reactions occurred in 11.8% of the DRO-
treated  patients  and  in  7.7%  in  the  placebo-treated  group.  The  most  common  reasons  for 
discontinuation of therapy with Multaq were gastrointestinal disorders (3.2% of patients versus 1.8% 
in the placebo group). 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considers that the Pharmacovigilance System as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements and provides evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for notification of any adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified 
risks 
Inappropriate 
management  of 
signal 
creatinine increase 
the 
serum 
of 
Prescription surveys to evaluate 
prescribers understanding of labeling 
recommendations  
THIN  and  LabRx®  repeated  cross-
sectional  studies  of  the proportion  of 
dronedarone  users  having  a  serum 
creatinine 
treatment 
tested  after 
initiation. 
Labeling: [Section 4.4] of the SPC 
recommends “to measure plasma creatinine 
values 7 days after initiation of dronedarone. 
An increase in plasma creatinine has been 
observed with dronedarone 400 mg twice 
daily in healthy subjects and in patients. This 
increase occurs early after treatment initiation 
and reaches a plateau after 7 days. If an 
increase in creatininemia is observed, this 
value should be used as the new reference 
baseline taking into account that this may be 
expected with dronedarone. An increase in 
creatininemia should not necessarily lead to 
the discontinuation of treatment with ACE-
inhibitors or Angiotensin II Receptors 
Antagonists (AIIRAs).”  
[Section 4.8] of the SPC lists “Blood 
creatinine increased” as a very common ADR. 
Communication  process  on  appropriate  usage 
of  MULTAQ®:  An  educational  program  with 
a goal to alert the prescriber on the appropriate 
utilization  of  serum  creatinine 
in 
patients  treated  with  dronedarone  will  be 
implemented.  In  each  country,  educational 
vehicles  will  be  developed,  seeking 
the 
collaboration  of  scientific  societies,  targeting 
physicians likely to initiate the treatment with 
testing 
                           40/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Drug-Drug 
Interactions 
potent 
inhibitors  
with 
CYP3A4 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
Prescription surveys to evaluate 
prescribers understanding of labeling 
recommendations. 
THIN  and  LabRx®  repeated  cross-
sectional  studies  of  the  concomitant 
prescribing of interacting medications 
in dronedarone users. 
Important potential 
risks 
in 
unstable 
Use 
hemodynamic 
including 
condition 
patients 
with 
symptoms  of  heart 
failure  at  rest  or  with 
exertion 
minimal 
(corresponding  with 
IV  and 
NYA  class 
unstable 
III 
patients).  
class 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Prescription surveys to evaluate 
prescribers understanding of labeling 
recommendations. 
THIN and LabRx® repeated cross-
sectional studies of the proportion of 
dronedarone users having unstable 
hemodynamic condition at time of 
treatment initiation. 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
MULTAQ®.  
Labeling: Coadministration with strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole, 
itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, 
telithromycin, clarithromycin, nefazodone, 
and ritonavir is contraindicated in [Section 
4.3] of the SPC. 
[Section 4.5] of the SPC provides the 
pharmacokinetic information about this 
interaction. 
For grapefruit juice (CYP3A4 inhibitor): 
[Section 4.2] ,[Section 4.4] and [Section 4.5] 
of the SPC indicate that “patients should be 
warned to avoid grapefruit juice beverages 
while taking dronedarone” 
Communication  process  on  appropriate  usage 
of  MULTAQ®:  An  educational  program  with 
a  goal  to  prevent  the  concomitant  use  with 
dronedarone  of  potent  CYP3A  inhibitors  will 
be  implemented.  In  each  country,  educational 
vehicles  will  be  developed,  seeking 
the 
collaboration  of  scientific  societies,  targeting 
physicians likely to initiate the treatment with 
MULTAQ®.  The  educational  material  will 
include  a  drug  interaction  check  card  to  be 
used 
that  will  be 
communicated to the Health care professionals 
(ie,  doctors  and  pharmacists)  for  preventing 
these  drug-drug  interactions  (see  Annex  II  of 
the Marketing Authorisation).  
in  all  EU  countries 
Labeling: contraindication to use in these patients 
in [Section 4.3] of the SPC. In addition, [Section 
4.4] of the SPC states that the use of dronedarone 
is not recommended in stable patients with recent 
(1 to 3 months) NYHA class III heart failure or with 
LVEF <35%, because of limited experience in 
these patients. 
Communication process on appropriate usage of 
MULTAQ®: An educational program will be 
implemented, with the goals to prevent the use of 
dronedarone in patients in unstable hemodynamic 
conditions including patients with symptoms of 
heart failure at rest or with minimal exertion 
(corresponding with NYHA class IV and unstable 
class III patients), and to limit use in stable 
patients with recent (1 to 3 months) NYHA class 
III heart failure or with LVEF <35%. In each 
country, educational vehicles will be developed, 
seeking the collaboration of scientific societies, 
targeting physicians likely to initiate the 
treatment with MULTAQ®. 
                           41/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
  
 
  
Safety concern 
Drug-Drug 
Interactions with 
digitalis, calcium 
antagonists with heart 
rate lowering 
properties, beta-
blockers, statins, 
tacrolimus and 
sirolimus, potent 
CYP3A4 inducers. 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Prescription surveys to evaluate 
prescribers understanding of labelling 
recommendations. 
THIN and LabRx® repeated cross-
sectional studies of the concomitant 
prescribing of interacting medications 
in dronedarone users. 
Study of interaction with statins and 
digoxin in the THIN and LabRx® 
databases. 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Labelling: 
- 
- 
- 
For digitalis: [Section 4.4] and [Section 
4.5] of the SPC indicate that the digoxin 
dose should be reduced by approximately 
50%, serum levels of digoxin should be 
closely monitored and clinical and ECG 
monitoring is recommended. A 
synergistic effect on heart rate and 
atrioventricular conduction is also 
possible. 
For calcium antagonists: [Section 4.4] and 
[Section 4.5] of the SPC indicate that the 
coadministration of calcium antagonists 
with depressant effect on sinus and atrio-
ventricular node should be undertaken 
with caution. These drugs should be 
initiated at low dose and up-titration 
should be done only after ECG 
assessment. In patients already on 
calcium antagonists at time of 
dronedarone initiation, an ECG should be 
performed and the dose should be 
adjusted if needed. 
For beta-blockers: [Section 4.4] and 
[Section 4.5] of the SPC indicate that the 
coadministration of beta-blockers with 
depressant effect on sinus and atrio-
ventricular node such as verapamil and 
diltiazem should be undertaken with 
caution. These medicinal products should 
be initiated at low dose and up-titration 
should be done only after ECG 
assessment. In patients already on beta 
blockers at time of dronedarone initiation, 
an ECG should be performed and the 
dose should be adjusted if needed. 
- 
For statins: 
o 
o 
[Section 4.4] of the SPC indicates 
that statins should be used with 
caution. Lower starting dose and 
maintenance doses of statins should 
be considered according to the 
statin label recommendations and 
patients monitored for clinical signs 
of muscular toxicity.  
[Section 4.5] of the SPC indicates 
that “As high doses of statins 
increase the risk of myopathy, 
concomitant use of statins should 
be undertaken with caution. Lower 
starting dose and maintenance 
doses of statins should be 
considered according to the statin 
label recommendations and patients 
monitored for clinical signs of 
muscular toxicity.” 
                           42/46  
© EMEA 2009 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
- 
- 
For tacrolimus and sirolimus, [Section 
4.5] of the SPC indicates that 
dronedarone could increase plasma 
concentrations of tacrolimus and 
sirolimus, so monitoring of their plasma 
concentrations and appropriate dose 
adjustment is recommended in case of 
coadministration with dronedarone. 
For potent CYP3A4 inducers, [Section 
4.4] and [Section 4.5] indicate that “co-
administration of rifampicin and other 
potent CYP3A4 inducers such as 
phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
St John’s Wort is not recommended as 
they decrease dronedarone exposure. 
No minimization action is proposed, as there 
is no evidence of such risks with the use of 
dronedarone. 
Amiodarone-like 
effects: Interstitial lung 
Disease, Severe Skin 
disorders (including 
photosensitivity), 
Neuropathy (including 
Optic Neuropathy), 
hepatic injury 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Use of specific report forms to 
document spontaneous reports of 
interstitial lung disease and potential 
hepatic injury. 
Background frequencies in the 
RecordAF disease registry (AF/AFL 
population). 
THIN and LabRx® retrospective 
cohort studies of the safety outcome 
of interest. 
Prolactin-induced 
mammary 
carcinogenesis 
(preclinical finding) 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
No minimization action proposed, as not 
confirmed ADR. 
Important missing information 
Effect in pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Use of specific report forms for 
spontaneous reports to better 
document the reported cases 
Effect in lactation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Effect in severe 
hepatic impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling: Use in pregnancy is not 
recommended per [Section 4.6] of the SPC. 
Information about the existence of findings in 
animals is provided in [Section 5.3] of the 
SPC. 
Labelling: [Section 4.6] of the SPC indicates 
that a decision on whether to 
continue/discontinue breast-feeding or to 
continue/discontinue therapy with MULTAQ® 
should be made taking into account the benefit 
of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit 
of MULTAQ® to the woman. Information 
about excretion of dronedarone and its 
metabolites in breast milk in animals is 
provided. 
Labelling: Use in severe hepatic impairment is 
contraindicated in [Section 4.3] of the SPC. 
Information about the lack of data in this sub-
population is provided in [Section 4.2] of the 
                           43/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Effect in children 
(potential off-label 
use) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
THIN and LabRx® repeated cross-
sectional studies of the proportion of 
paediatric patients prescribed 
dronedarone. 
SPC 
Labelling: [Section 4.2] of the SPC states that, 
as there is no experience in children and 
adolescents, therefore, MULTAQ® is not 
recommended. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product.  
2.6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
There are no unresolved quality issues which may affect the Benefit/Risk balance.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pharmacology  studies  in  animal  models  demonstrated  that  DRO  reduces  the  heart  rate,  prolongs 
Wenckebach  cycle  length  and  AH-,  PQ-,  QT-  intervals;  with  no  marked  effect  or  weak  increase  on 
QTc-intervals, and with no change in HV- and QRS- intervals. It increases effective refractory periods 
of  the  atrium,  atrio-ventricular  node,  and  ventricles.  DRO  decreases  arterial  BP  and  myocardial 
contractility  with  no  change  in  left  ventricular  ejection  fraction  and  reduces  myocardial  oxygen 
consumption. It has coronary and peripheral arteries vasodilatory properties related to the activation of 
the  nitric  oxide  pathway.  DRO  displays  indirect  antiadrenergic  effects  and  partial  antagonism  to 
adrenergic  stimulation.    In  non-clinical  toxicology  studies  DRO  had  no  genotoxic  effects,  based  on 
one in vivo micronucleus test in mice and four in vitro tests. In 2-year oral carcinogenicity studies, the 
highest DRO dose administered for 24 months was 70 mg/kg/day in rats and 300 mg/kg/day in mice. 
Observations  were  increased  incidence  of  mammary  gland  tumors  in  female  mice,  histiocytic 
sarcomas in mice and hemangiomas at the mesenteric lymph node level in rats, all at the highest tested 
dose  only,  corresponding  to  an  exposure  of  5  to  10 times  that  of  the  human  therapeutic  dose. 
Hemangiomas are not precancerous changes and do not transform into malignant hemangiosarcomas 
in either animals or man. None of these observations was considered relevant for humans. In chronic 
toxicity  studies,  slight  and  reversible  phospholipidosis  was  observed  in  mesenteric  lymph  nodes 
mainly in the rat. This effect is considered specific to this species and not relevant to humans. DRO 
caused  marked  effects  on  embryo-foetal  development  at  high  doses  in  rats,  such  as  increased  post-
implantation  losses,  reduced  foetal  and  placental  weights,  and  external,  visceral  and  skeletal 
malformations. 
Efficacy 
The current submission is based on five placebo-controlled studies and one actively-controlled study. 
The rhythm and rate -control properties of DRO were demonstrated in DAFNE, EURYDIS/ADONIS 
and ERATO studies. In EURIDIS/ADONIS DRO 400 mg BID significantly lowered, by 25%, the risk 
of first recurrence of AF/AFL within the 12-month study period compared to placebo. The results of 
ERATO showed a significant effect on mean heart rate compared to baseline at rest in the DRO group 
compared to the placebo group when measured after 14 days of treatment. In the previous application, 
the  assessment  of  DAFNE,  EURIDIS/ADONIS  and  ERATO  studies,  ended  however  in  a  negative 
benefit/risk profile for DRO in the indication: maintenance of sinus rhythm or decrease of ventricular 
rate in AF/AFL patients. The main objections posed were against the drug-interaction profile, the lack 
of  actively-controlled  studies  and  the  overall  safety  profile.  The  submission  of  ATHENA  and 
                           44/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIONYSOS studies was awaited to clarify many of these issues. The claimed indication was: patients 
with either a recent history of, or current non-permanent atrial fibrillation. Multaq has been shown to 
decrease the risk of AF-related hospitalisation. This would therefore be the first anti-arrhythmic agent 
for AF to claim an improvement in a clinical outcome instead of the standard claim of anti-arrhythmic 
properties.  Further  analysis  indicates  some  clinical  benefit  in  patients  in  AFL  though  the  recruited 
numbers in ATHENA of this subgroup are too few to allow robust conclusions. ATHENA was a large 
study recruiting around 4000 haemodynamically stable patients to investigate the clinical outcome of 
the time from randomization to first cardiovascular hospitalization or death from any cause in patients 
with  AF/AFL  or  history  thereof.  The  achieved  statistical  significance  of  the  primary  endpoint  was 
driven  by  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  time  to  first  cardiovascular  hospitalization.  No  significant 
effect on time to death was shown precluding any claims on that endpoint. Around half of these CV 
hospitalizations were due to AF-related reasons. The exact reason for these AF- hospitalizations was 
not  given,  because  they  were  not  collected  at  hospital  admission.  Available  data  indicate  that  these 
AF-hospitalizations  may  not  only  be  related  to  electrical  cardioversion,  but  also  to  the  need  for 
pharmacological  management  of  the  arrhythmias.  The  results  thus  positively  verify  the  efficacy  of 
DRO as an anti-arrhythmic, with a consequent reduction of AF-related hospitalizations. The applicant 
showed that the reduction in AF-related hospitalisations by DRO is a clinically relevant finding that 
may be accompanied with a reduction of potentially life-threatening conditions. However, the number 
of events such as TIA/stroke and heart failure was small and the absolute difference to placebo small. 
It cannot be established on the basis of ATHENA whether CV hospitalization can be used as surrogate 
for  outcome,  nor  whether  other  effects  than  its  antiarrhythmic  properties  are  co-responsible  for  this 
effect  of  DRO.  Also,  it  cannot  be  automatically  assumed  that  other  effective  antiarrhythmics  will 
result  in  similar  reduction  in  hospitalization  as  this  has  not  been  studied  systematically.  The  CHMP 
considered therefore that the results do not justify the inclusion of this finding in the indication as it 
may be a direct consequence of its antiarrhythmic effects that can mentioned in section 5.1. Moreover 
the CHMP considered the inclusion of clinical endpoints in the indication is not in line with the SPC 
guideline.  During the on-study period, DRO significantly decreased the incidence of cardiovascular 
death  that  was  studied  as  a  secondary  endpoint,  compared  with  placebo  (2.8%  vs.  4.0%).  The 
reduction  of  cardiovascular  death  with  DRO  400  mg  BID  was  mainly  due  to  a  reduction  in  the 
incidence  sudden  cardiac  death  and  stroke,  but  incidences  were  low  and  differences  were  small  and 
warrant further study. The reduction in sudden cardiac death further alleviates the concerns regarding 
the possible pro-arrhythmic potential of DRO raised following the ANDROMEDA study. The results 
of  the  study  DIONYSOS  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  DRO  versus  amiodarone  for  the 
maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with AF showed that DRO is less effective than amiodarone 
as an anti-arrhythmic. However, a direct comparison between amiodarone and DRO regarding the risk 
of AF-related hospitalizations is not submitted. The results complicate the interpretation of the place 
of DRO in the treatment of atrial fibrillation.  
Safety 
The  numbers  and  the  duration  of  exposure  of  patients  in  the  targeted  AF/AFL  population  were 
adequate  to  properly  estimate  the  associated  risks  of  using  DRO  400  mg  BID.  From  the  safety 
database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  As 
expected,  the  extra-cardiac  safety  profile  of  DRO  appears  to  be  better  than  that  described  with 
amiodarone,  as  shown  by  the  DIONYSOS  study  for  thyroid  and  neurological  events.  The  increased 
mortality reported in the ANDROMEDA study is not confirmed by the results of the ATHENA study, 
but this latter study excluded haemodynamically unstable patients. Therefore, these patients should be 
contraindicated  and  the  indication  should  specifically  mention  that  DRO  should  only  be  used  in 
clinically  stable  patients.  Death  from  all  causes  was  comparable  in  DRO  and  placebo  groups  or 
amiodarone in the AF/AFL population. The results of stable patients with NYHA III and patients with 
an LVEF < 35% were comparable to those of the general recruited cohort, but numbers were small and 
the use of DRO is these patients can still not be recommended. No increased risk of heart failure or 
pro-arrhythmic  potential  was  observed.  DRO  has  an  even  more  complex  interaction  potential  than 
amiodarone,  being both a substrate and an inhibitor of CYP P450 enzymes, in  addition to P-gp that 
can potentially lead to major problems in daily clinical practice. SPC addresses specifically safe use of 
the combination of DRO and digitalis, beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers. The lack of lower 
dose  recommendations  is  a  disadvantage  considering  the  possible  interactions  (e.g.  verapamil),  and 
higher  exposure  in  female  patients  and  will  be  followed  up  in  upcoming  PSURs.  The  increased 
                           45/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
creatininemia observed with DRO remains a concern, though is currently appropriately addressed in 
the RMP.  
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these concerns.  
• 
User consultation 
The Applicant performed a user consultation testing on the package leaflet. The design of the test 
formed the basis of an adequate and competent testing of the PIL in regard to finding, diagnosing and 
amending possible weaknesses. The present readability test was well designed to meet its main 
objectives. The results of the user testing described in the user testing report support the changes made 
to the PIL. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
DRO demonstrates electro-physiological characteristics belonging to all 4 Vaughan-Williams classes 
of anti-arrhythmic compounds. These characteristics are in line with those of amiodarone, which has 
been  shown  to  be  an  effective  drug  in  the  management  of  AF,  but  also  one  associated  with  many 
extra-cardiac adverse events. A safer alternative for amiodarone would be an advantage. The presented 
data  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  DRO  400  mg  BID  as  an  anti-arrhythmic  in  patients  in  AF  both  in 
terms of rhythm and rate control. It has been shown to decrease the risk of AF related hospitalisations. 
The effects of dronedarone beyond its antiarrhythmic properties have not been clearly demonstrated. 
There  is  only  one  comparative  study  with  amiodarone.  In  this  efficacy/safety  study,  dronedarone 
appears less effective than amiodarone in the maintenance of sinus rhythm. In terms of safety it may 
be advantageous compared to amiodarone, but patients with severe and/or unstable heart failure should 
be contraindicated and its use in stable patients with NYHA class III heart failure or with LVEF <35% 
cannot be recommended.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
• 
Pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
•  The following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 
2.3  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
risk-benefit balance of Multaq in the treatment stable patients with either a recent history of, or current 
non-permanent  atrial  fibrillation  is  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
                           46/46  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
