26 March 2020 
EMA/325899/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): dronedarone 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001180/201907 
Period covered by the PSUR: from 01 August 2016 to 31 July 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for dronedarone, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
The potential drug-drug PK interaction between rivaroxaban and dronedarone and the risk of bleeding 
was assessed based on the review of the Sanofi global safety database (GSD), worldwide scientific 
literature and PK plausibility. 
This review identified four cases with a positive de-challenge without identified co-medication or 
comorbidity that might provide alternative explanations. The increased bleeding risk resolved after 
discontinuation of dronedarone while rivaroxaban use continued. 
The non-interventional retrospective cohort study (DRONEC09460) evaluating the “Concomitant Use of 
Dronedarone and Direct Oral Anticoagulants and the Risk of Major Bleeding in Patients with 
Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation” reported an increased risk of major bleeding, driven by GI bleeding with 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with dronedarone compared to those taking rivaroxaban alone. For 
both dabigatran and rivaroxaban, major bleeding was higher among those taking dronedarone and 
dabigatran/rivaroxaban concomitantly compared to those taking dabigatran/rivaroxaban alone. This 
increased bleeding risk was not seen with concomitant use of apixaban and dronedarone, but this could 
be explained by the different non-metabolic clearance of apixaban that reduces the potential for drug-
drug interaction. 
Literature shows that in vitro there might be an 31% increase in rivaroxaban exposure due to 
inhibition of metabolism by dronedarone. A physiological based pharmacokinetic model showed a weak 
to moderate increase of the AUC of rivaroxaban in combination with dronedarone. 
In relation to non-vit K antagonist regarding concomitant use with dronedarone the European Heart 
Rhythm Association guide 2018 states: "There are no interaction pharmacokinetic data available for 
rivaroxaban and apixaban but effects on their plasma levels can be anticipated based on P-gp and 
CYP3A4 interactions, calling for caution (i.e. ‘yellow’) or avoidance (for rivaroxaban)." 
Furthermore, the SmPC of rivaroxaban mentions that active substances strongly inhibiting only one of 
the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. Dronedarone is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate 
-strong Pgp inhibitor. 
In view of available data, concomitant use of dronedarone and rivaroxaban is expected to increase the 
plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban. The interaction may not be clinically relevant in most patients 
but could be significant in high-risk patients. Based on similar mechanism of action, the same can be 
expected for apixaban and edoxaban. As the level of evidence for drug-drug interactions between 
dronedarone and the different DOACs leading to increased exposure of the DOAC varies, slightly 
different recommendations on concomitant use with the different DOACs in section 4.5 of SmPC are 
recommended. A warning is also included in the corresponding part of the Package leaflet. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for dronedarone the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing dronedarone is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
aThe CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/325899/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
