Summary of risk management plan for MULTAQ (Dronedarone) 
This is a summary of the RMP for MULTAQ. The RMP details important risks of MULTAQ, 
how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about MULTAQ’s 
risks.  
MULTAQ’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how MULTAQ should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for MULTAQ should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of MULTAQ’s 
RMP. 
1.  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
MULTAQ is authorized in adult clinically stable patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial 
fibrillation (AF) for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after successful cardioversion. Due to its 
safety profile, MULTAQ should only be prescribed after alternative treatment options have been 
considered.  
MULTAQ must not be given to patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction or to patients 
with current or previous episodes of heart failure (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
dronedarone as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of MULTAQ’s benefits can be found in MULTAQ’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medical Agency 
(EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
Refer to EPAR ref. European Medicines Agency (EMEA)/H/C/001043 -N/0040 dated 
13 November 2017 available on the EMA website at the following link:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/documents/product-information/multaq-epar-product-
information_en.pdf  
2.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of MULTAQ, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about MULTAQ’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
 
 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
• 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;  
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
In the case of MULTAQ, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, outlined in the next sections.   
2.1 List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of MULTAQ are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of MULTAQ. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected. 
 Table 1 - List of important risks and missing information 
Important 
identified 
risks 
Heart failure (including use in patients with unstable hemodynamic conditions with history of, or current 
heart failure or left ventricular systolic dysfunction, and pre-renal azotemia)  
Use in permanent atrial fibrillation (use in patients with AF duration ≥6 months [or duration unknown] 
and attempts to restore sinus rhythm no longer considered by the physician)  
Pulmonary - interstitial lung disease (ILD)  
Hepatotoxicity  
Important 
potential risk 
Missing 
information 
None  
None 
AF: Atrial Fibrillation; ILD: Interstitial Lung Disease. 
 
 
2.2 Summary of important risks  
Table 2 - Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities if any - Important identified risk: Heart failure (including use in 
patients with unstable hemodynamic conditions with history of, or current heart failure or left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction, and pre-renal azotemia) 
Important identified risk: Heart failure (including use in patients with unstable hemodynamic 
conditions with history of, or current heart failure or left ventricular systolic dysfunction, and 
pre-renal azotemia) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups  
Clinical study reports: ANDROMEDA, pool of 5 placebo-controlled clinical 
studies in AF/AFL population, permanent AF/AFL study (PALLAS), 
DRI10939 study. 
The presence or absence of clinical stability was the primary feature that 
distinguished the patients enrolled in the ANDROMEDA and ATHENA 
trials. Both trials enrolled patients with low ejection fractions or with 
NYHA class II or III HF; however these patients had been hospitalized for 
worsening HF in the ANDROMEDA trial but were stable outpatients in the 
ATHENA trial. If the results of ANDROMEDA are considered reliable, this 
clinical instability defines the patients that should not receive 
dronedarone. 
Based on newly available data, patients with history of or current HF and 
LVSD are considered at risk. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC: Labelled in sections 4.3,  4.4 and 4.8  
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Tool for healthcare professionals: Prescriber guide 
AF: Atrial Fibrillation; AFL: Atrial Flutter, HF: Heart Failure, LVSD: Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction, SmPC: Summary of Product 
Characteristics.  
 Table 3 - Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities if any - Important identified risk: Use in permanent atrial fibrillation 
(use in patients with AF duration ≥6 months [or duration unknown] and attempts to restore sinus 
rhythm no longer considered by the physician) 
Important identified risk: Use in permanent atrial fibrillation (use in patients with AF duration 
≥6 months [or duration unknown] and attempts to restore sinus rhythm no longer considered 
by the physician) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Postmarketing reports, PALLAS study, and epidemiology data. 
Risk factors and risk groups  
History of or current heart failure. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC: Labelled in Section 4.3 and 4.4  
Prescription only medicine 
 
 
Important identified risk: Use in permanent atrial fibrillation (use in patients with AF duration 
≥6 months [or duration unknown] and attempts to restore sinus rhythm no longer considered 
by the physician) 
AF: Atrial Fibrillation; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Tool for healthcare professionals: Prescriber guide 
 Table 4 - Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities if any - Important identified risk: Pulmonary - interstitial lung disease 
Important identified risk: Pulmonary - interstitial lung disease  
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups  
Postmarketing reports, clinical trials and epidemiology data. 
No specific risk factors have been determined other than a previous ILD 
reaction to amiodarone exposure. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC: Labelled in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8  
Prescription only medicine  
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Tool for healthcare professionals: Prescriber guide 
ILD: Interstitial Lung Disease, SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 Table 5 - Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities if any - Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity  
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups  
Postmarketing reports, clinical trials and epidemiology data. 
In the Pool of 5 controlled clinical studies in AF/AFL population (DAFNE, 
EURIDIS, ADONIS, ERATO, ATHENA): additional post-hoc analyses on 
selected hepatic events showed a trend in which the dronedarone group 
had an earlier onset of hepatic AEs during the first 6 months compared to 
placebo. After 1 year, the incidences appeared to be similar in the 
2 groups; data are entirely driven by AEs reported in the ATHENA study 
(enzymes not routinely collected). There was no interaction identified 
between treatment and baseline prognostic factors or medications for any 
specific hepatic events. 
Postmarketing safety experience from launch until DLP: 
Most of the severe cases of hepatocellular hepatotoxicity including 
hepatic failure appear to occur in the context of hypotension or reduced 
cardiac output. These cases occurred in the context of myocardial 
infarction, septic shock or worsening CHF. Many of these cases occurred 
within the first 30 days of dronedarone exposure. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC: Labelled in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8  
 
 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity  
Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Tool for healthcare professionals: Prescriber guide 
AE: Adverse Event, AF: Atrial Fibrillation, AFL: Atrial Flutter, CHF: Congestive Heart Failure, DLP: Data Lock Point; SmPC: Summary of 
Product Characteristics.  
2.3 Post-authorization development plan  
2.3.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There is no study which is condition of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
dronedarone.  
2.3.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There is no study required for dronedarone. 
 
 
