EMA/386898/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004218 
Myalepta (metreleptin) 
An overview of Myalepta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Myalepta and what is it used for? 
Myalepta is a medicine used in addition to diet to treat lipodystrophy, where patients have loss of fatty 
tissue under the skin and build-up of fat elsewhere in the body such as in the liver and muscles. The 
medicine is used in: 
• 
• 
adults and children above the age of 2 years with generalised (throughout the body) lipodystrophy 
(Berardinelli-Seip syndrome and Lawrence syndrome); 
adults and children above the age of 12 years with partial (localised) lipodystrophy (including 
Barraquer-Simons syndrome), when standard treatments have failed.  
Myalepta contains the active substance metreleptin. 
Because the number of patients with the various forms of lipodystrophy is low, the diseases are 
considered ‘rare’, and Myalepta was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 17 July 2012. Further information on the orphan designations can be found on the 
European Medicines Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation (Bernardinelli-Seip syndrome: 17/07/12; Lawrence syndrome: 17/07/12; familial partial 
lipodystrophy: 17/07/12; Barraquer-Simons syndrome: 17/07/12). 
How is Myalepta used? 
Myalepta can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the diagnosis and management of patients with metabolic disorders. 
Myalepta is given as a daily injection under the skin of the abdomen (belly), thigh or upper arm, at the 
same time every day. The recommended daily dose depends on the patient’s bodyweight and is 
adjusted based on the patient’s response to treatment. Patients or carers can inject the medicine 
themselves once they have been trained. 
For more information about using Myalepta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Myalepta work? 
Patients with lipodystrophy have low levels of a human hormone called leptin, which plays a key role in 
regulating the break-down of fats and sugars in the body. This leads to loss of fat from under the skin 
and its build-up in places such as the liver and muscles, as well as high levels of fat in the blood. It 
also results in insulin resistance (when the body is unable to recognise insulin, a hormone that helps 
regulate blood sugar levels). 
The active substance in Myalepta, metreleptin, is similar to leptin. It replaces leptin and increases fat 
breakdown in the blood, muscles and liver, thereby correcting some abnormalities in patients with 
lipodystrophy, including insulin resistance. However, the medicine does not restore fat tissue under the 
skin. 
What benefits of Myalepta have been shown in studies? 
Myalepta has been shown to be effective at lowering blood fat levels in 2 main studies involving a total 
of 107 adults and children with generalised or partial lipodystrophy. In the studies Myalepta was not 
compared with any other treatment. After 12 months of treatment, blood levels of fats (triglycerides) 
decreased from around 15 mmol/l to around 5 mmol/l in patients with generalised disease, and from 
around 16 mmol/l to around 6 mmol/l in patients with partial disease. 
Insulin resistance was also improved: blood levels of a substance called glycosylated haemoglobin 
(HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled, fell from 8.6% to 6.4% 
in patients with generalised lipodystrophy, and from 8.8% to 8.0% in patients with partial 
lipodystrophy.  
What are the risks associated with Myalepta? 
The most common side effects with Myalepta (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose) and weight loss. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with 
Myalepta, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Myalepta authorised in the EU? 
Myalepta has been shown to correct some abnormalities caused by leptin deficiency in patients with 
lipodystrophy, a rare condition for which few treatments are available. Side effects seen with Myalepta 
are of the kind expected from this type of treatment. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Myalepta’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Myalepta has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Myalepta due to the rarity of the condition. Every year, 
the Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated 
as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Myalepta? 
Since Myalepta has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Myalepta will set-up a registry of patients treated the medicine, and conduct studies to further 
investigate the benefits and risks of treatment including the possibility for Myalepta to trigger the 
production of antibodies. 
Myalepta (metreleptin)  
EMA/386898/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Myalepta? 
The company that markets Myalepta will provide educational materials to patients and doctors with 
detailed information on how to use the medicine and what to do in case of side effects, including 
allergic reactions, hypoglycaemia and serious infections. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Myalepta have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Myalepta are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Myalepta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Myalepta 
Myalepta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 30 July 2018. 
Further information on Myalepta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2018. 
Myalepta (metreleptin)  
EMA/386898/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
