European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/121708/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Mycamine 
International Nonproprietary Name: mycafungin  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000734 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 10 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 19 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 46 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 47 
2/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Astellas  Pharma  GmbH  submitted  on  11  April  2006  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Mycamine,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMEA/CHMP  on  17  November  2005  and  re-confirmed  on  14 
December 2005.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) 
or study(ies) 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from  the CHMP on 31 May 2001, 30 May 2002, 22 April 
2005 and 29 April 2005. The Scientific Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
Mycamine has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Japan on 08/10/02, USA on 16/03/05, Jordan 
on 23/02/05, China on 12/05/06, Taiwan on 28/08/06, Korea on  26/10/06, Hong Kong on 06/01/07, 
Canada on 22/05/07, Macau on 05/07/07, Syria on 23/08/07 and Kuwait on 30/10/07. 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Saudi Arabia, Lebanon. Oman, United Arab 
Emirates, Bahrain, Thailand and Philippines. 
Applications were withdrawn in the EU on 01/09/04 and in Switzerland on 02/12/04. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  
Co-Rapporteur:  Bruno Flamion 
Karl Broich 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 11 April 2006. 
The procedure started on 24 May 2006.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 18 August 
2006. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 23 
August 2006.  
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  September  2006,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 September 2006. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 13 July 
2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 September 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 September 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
3/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 12 December 
2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 8 January 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  21-24  January  2008,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  February  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Mycamine on 21 February 2008. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  20 
February 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Invasive fungal infections  
Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) are a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in high-risk patients, 
such as immunocompromised patients. The number of such patients has increased in recent years due 
to increases in the use of intensive cancer chemotherapy as well as immunosuppressive regimens for 
autoimmune  disease,  the  occurrence  of  solid  organ  and  bone  marrow  transplantation,  and  the 
incidence of individuals with diseases of the immune system such as AIDS. 
Candida is currently the predominant fungal pathogen in these patient populations. However, invasive 
aspergillosis has been increasing in incidence and Aspergillus is a significant fungal pathogen in bone 
marrow  transplant  recipients.  Organisms  belonging  to  both  genera  are  associated  with  significant 
morbidity and a high mortality. Current therapies are not sufficient and treatment alternatives for this 
indication are urgently needed. 
About the product 
Micafungin  (FK463),  manufactured  by  Astellas  Pharma  Co.,  Ltd.,  is  a  water-soluble  semisynthetic 
compound  belonging  to  the  new  class  of  antifungal  agents,  the  echinocandin  lipopeptides.  It  is 
synthesised through the chemical modification of a fermentation product from Coleophoma empetri F-
11899. It acts by selectively inhibiting 1,3-beta-D-glucan synthase, which is required for fungal cell 
wall  synthesis.  Other  antifungals  such  as  polyenes  and  azoles  interfere  with  the  cell  wall  structure 
itself. Mammalian cells do not contain 1,3-beta-D-glucan polymers, indicating a lack of mechanism-
based  toxicity,  which  may  at  least  partially  account  for  the  good  tolerability  of  the  echinocandins. 
Micafungin  has  potent  in  vitro  and  experimental  in  vivo  activity  against  a  variety  of  pathogenic 
Candida  species  (yeasts)  and  Aspergillus  species  (filamentous  fungus),  grouped  as  yeast-like 
organisms, which are the most common pathogens responsible for invasive fungal infections.  
Two  other  echinocandins,  caspofungin  and  anidulafungin,  have  already  obtained  a  marketing 
authorization  in  the  European  Union.  Caspofungin  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  invasive 
aspergillosis in adult patients who are refractory to, or intolerant of, other antifungal therapies, for the 
treatment  of  invasive  candidiasis  in  adult  patients,  and  for  empirical  therapy  for  presumed  fungal 
infections  (such  as  Candida  or  Aspergillus)  in  febrile,  neutropenic  adult  patients.  Anidulafungin  is 
indicated for treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult non-neutropenic patients. 
So far, all echinocandins have to be used through the intravenous route. 
Micafungin has already been licensed in Japan (2002), in the USA (2005) and in other countries.  
4/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applied indication is:  
Mycamine (micafungin) is an echinocandin and has broad spectrum activity against Candida and 
Aspergillus species. Mycamine is indicated as follows: 
- Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
- Treatment of oesophageal candidiasis. 
- Prophylaxis of Candida and Aspergillus infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic   
  stem cell transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (Absolute Neutrophil 
  Count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
The approved indication is:  
Mycamine is indicated for: 
Adults, adolescents ≥ 16 years of age and elderly: 
- 
- 
- 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
Treatment of oesophageal candidiasis in patients for whom intravenous therapy is appropriate. 
Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
Children (including neonates) and adolescents < 16 years of age: 
- 
- 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
The decision to use Mycamine should take into account a potential risk for the development of liver 
tumours (see section 4.4). Mycamine should therefore only be used if other antifungals are not  
appropriate. 
The dose regimen of Mycamine depends on the body weight of the patient as given in the following 
tables: 
Use in adults, adolescents ≥ 16 years of age and elderly 
Indication 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis 
Treatment of oesophageal candidiasis  
Prophylaxis of Candida infection 
*If the patient’s response is inadequate, e.g. persistence of cultures or if clinical condition does not improve, the 
dose may be increased to 200 mg/day in patients weighing > 40 kg or 4 mg/kg/day in patients ≤ 40 kg. 
Body weight > 40 kg 
100 mg/day* 
150 mg/day 
50 mg/day 
Body weight ≤  40 kg 
2 mg/kg/day* 
3 mg/kg/day 
1 mg/kg/day 
The  treatment  duration  of  Candida  infection  should  be  a  minimum  of  14  days.  The  antifungal 
treatment should continue for at least one week after two sequential negative blood cultures have been 
obtained and after resolution of clinical signs and symptoms of infection. 
For the treatment of oesophageal candidiasis, Mycamine should be administered for at least one week 
after resolution of clinical signs and symptoms. 
For prophylaxis of  Candida infection, Mycamine should be administered for at least one week after 
neutrophil recovery. 
Use in children (including neonates) and adolescents < 16 years of age 
Indication 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis  
Prophylaxis of Candida infection 
Body weight > 40 kg 
100 mg/day* 
50 mg/day 
Body weight ≤  40 kg 
2 mg/kg/day* 
1 mg/kg/day 
5/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*If the patient’s response is inadequate, e.g. persistence of cultures or if clinical condition does not improve, the 
dose may be increased to 200 mg/day in patients weighing > 40 kg or 4 mg/kg/day in patients weighing ≤  40 kg. 
The  treatment  duration  of  Candida  infection  should  be  a  minimum  of  14  days.  The  antifungal 
treatment should continue for at least one week after two sequential negative blood cultures have been 
obtained and after resolution of clinical signs and symptoms of infection. 
For prophylaxis of  Candida infection, Mycamine should be administered for at least one week after 
neutrophil recovery. Experience with Mycamine in patients less than 2 years of age is limited. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Micafungin,  is  a  sterile  powder  for  solution  for  infusion,  available  in  two  strengths,  50  mg  and 
100 mg.  The  drug  substance  is  micafungin  sodium,  a  semi-synthetic,  novel  drug  substance  with 
antifungal  activity  that  belongs  to  the  echinocandin  family  of  antifungal  agents.  Echinocandin 
lipopeptides  selectively  inhibit  the  synthesis  of  1,3-β-D-glucan,  an  essential component  of  the 
fungal  cell  wall,  which  is  not  present  in  mammalian  cells.  Each  vial  contains  50  mg    or    100  mg 
micafungin    (equivalent    to  50.86  mg  or  101.73  mg    micafungin  sodium),  200  mg    lactose    as  
stabiliser,  and  citric  acid  and/or  sodium  hydroxide  for  pH adjustment. Recommended diluents for 
the  reconstitution  of  the  powder  in  the  vial  and  further  dilution  in  infusion  bags  are  0.9%  sodium 
chloride solution for injection or 5 % glucose solution.   
Active Substance 
is 
sodium 
corresponding 
to  micafungin 
chemical  name 
sodium  5-[(1S,2S)-2-
The 
[(3S,6S,9S,11R,15S,18S,20R,21R,24S,25S,26S)-3-[(R)-2-carbamoyl-1-hydroxyethyl]-11,20,21,25-
tetrahydroxy-15-[(R)-1-hydroxyethyl]-26-methyl-2,5,8,14,17,23-hexaoxo-18-[4-[5-(4-
pentyloxyphenyl)isoxazol-3-yl]benzoylamino]-1,4,7,13,16,22-hexaaza-tricyclo-[22.3.0.09,13] 
heptacos-6-yl]-1,2-dihydroxyethyl]-2-hydroxyphenylsulphate.  Its  molecular  formula  and  weight  are 
C56H70N9NaO23S and 1292.26 respectively 
Micafungin sodium is a white, amorphous and highly hygroscopic powder. It is freely soluble in water 
and isotonic sodium chloride solution, slightly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in ethanol 
(95%). 
The  pH  of  its  aqueous  solution  is  between  6.2  and  6.9  (10%  aqueous  solution).  The  dissociation 
constant (pKa) and partition coefficient (log P) are 9.15 and -0.39 (pH 7), respectively. 
•  Manufacture 
Micafungin sodium is produced in three steps – fermentation, enzymatic deacylation and purification, 
and  finally,  synthesis  and  purification. Detailed  description  is  presented  in  the  confidential  annex  to 
the restricted part of the EDMF. 
The manufacturing method of micafungin was modified to improve the micafungin filtration process 
during the development. The previous method and the current method are abbreviated as method I and 
method  II,  respectively.  The  latter  is  used  for  the  manufacture  of  commercial  scale  batches.  Batch 
analysis data confirm that there is no significant difference in the quality of micafungin produced by 
either of the two methods. 
•  Specification 
The  specifications  for  the  control  of  the  drug  substance  include  tests  for  description  (visual), 
identification (UV-PhEur, IR-PhEur, NMR- PhEur, flame coloration test for sodium), specific rotation 
[ ]20
-PhEur,  pH-PhEur,  heavy  metals,  residue  on  ignition,  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual 
Dα
solvents  (GC),  water  (PhEur),  bacterial  endotoxins  (PhEur),  microbial  limit  test  (PhEur),  and  assay 
(HPLC). 
6/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  selected  test  parameters  and  acceptance  criteria  are  considered  as  appropriate  to  control  the 
quality of the drug substance micafungin sodium. The levels for the specified related substances have 
been qualified by toxicological studies. 
Batch analyses results are provided for twelve batches of the drug substance. The older batches were 
produced  according  to  the  previous  manufacturing  method  I.  Five  pilot  scaled  batches  and  three 
consecutive  commercial  scaled  batches  were  manufactured  by  the  current  manufacturing  method II. 
By comparing not only the batch analysis data but also the stability test results of micafungin obtained 
from method II with those of method I, equivalency in the quality has been confirmed. 
The  five  pilot  batches  and  three  production  batches  were  tested  using  the  current  specification 
requirements. Results comply with the set specifications. 
•  Stability 
The manufacturing method of the drug substance has been changed from “Method I” to “Method II”. 
“Method  II”  was  adopted  as  manufacturing  method  to  be  used  for  commercial  production. 
Nevertheless,  stability  studies  on  three  batches  manufactured  by  “Method  I”  were  provided  as 
supportive  data.  There  is  no  difference  in  the  results  of  the  stability  studies  of  the  drug  substance 
obtained from either manufacturing method. 
Stability studies on three primary pilot scale batches and three production batches manufactured at the 
commercial production site, under long term conditions (5°C) over 39 and 36 months respectively and 
under accelerated conditions (25°C/60%) over 6 months were conducted according to the requirements 
of  the  ICH  guideline  “Note  for  Guidance  on  Stability  Testing:  Stability  Testing  of  New  Drug 
Substances and Products (CPMP/ICH/2736/99)”.  
The  results  of  the  long  term  stability  studies  are  within  specification.  Under  long  term  conditions  a 
slightly increase of two related substances has been observed, but the results are within specification. 
No significant changes of the other parameters compared to the initial values have been detected. All 
results are within specification after 39 respectively 36 months at 5°C.  
At accelerated conditions the same two related substances were increased. After 3 months the level of 
one of them was out of specification, however, the assay was within specification over 6 months.  
In addition, one pilot scale batch was tested at stress conditions (40°C after 12 weeks, 25°C/82% RH 
after  4  weeks,  xenon  lamp/30,000  lux  after  40  h).  These  studies  reveal  that  the  active  substance  is 
sensitive to high temperature, high humidity and exposure to light. 
The stability studies of the pilot and production scale batches are in compliance with the requirements 
of  the  current  ICH  guideline.  The  stability  results  are  acceptable  and  support  the  proposed  re-test 
period under the proposed storage conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Micafungin can only be manufactured as an amorphous powder, which shows poor flowability and has 
undesirable physicochemical characteristics for a powder filling operation. Therefore, a lyophilisation 
process  has  been  employed  to  manufacture  the  drug  product.  The  results  of  micafungin  stability  in 
aqueous solution clearly indicate that the micafungin drug product could not be developed as a liquid 
dosage  form.  Based  upon  these  results,  a  lyophilised/sterile  powder  formulation  of  Micafungin  for 
concentration for solution for infusion was selected for further development. 
A  stabiliser  was  considered  necessary  for  the  drug  product  since  it  has  been  observed  that  the 
lyophilised amorphous powder of micafungin is unstable in the absence of excipients. Several standard 
excipients  were  tested  as  possible  stabilising  agents. The  lyophilised  product  formulation  containing 
lactose monohydrate was the most stable among all the drug products evaluated and therefore lactose 
monohydrate was selected as stabiliser while the amount of lactose monohydrate was optimised with 
subsequent studies. 
The effects of the pH of the lyophilised product on its stability were investigated and an acceptable pH 
range was established. 
The photostability of the drug product in vials with and without a transparent UV-resistant film was 
evaluated. The results clearly indicate the necessity of light protection for the product. Therefore, the 
vials will be wrapped with an UV-resistant film, which protects the product sufficiently from light. 
7/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finally,  the  compatibility  of  the  solution  reconstituted  and  diluted  with  saline  or  5%  dextrose  was 
investigated. The stability of the drug product solution was studied under fluorescent light (1000 lux) 
for  up  to  24  hours  at  room  temperature  with  or  without  light  protection.  The  results  show  no 
significant  decrease  in  the  potency  in  any  of  the  drug  product  solutions  up  to  24  hours  at  room 
temperature either with or without light resistant sleeves regardless the type of diluent. However, the 
related  substances  increased  with  elapsed  time  in  the  drug  product  solution  without  a  light-resistant 
sleeve;  the  increase  being  more  evident  in  the  lower  concentration  on  the  drug  product  solution. 
Therefore, it is recommended to protect the transfusion bag from light exposure with a light-resistant 
sleeve. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
A TSE statement of the active drug substance manufacturer was provided confirming that no materials 
of animal origin are used during the manufacturing process of micafungin sodium. In addition, lactose 
monohydrate is in compliance with guideline EMEA/410/01 rev 2. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of Mycamine is a standard process comprising basically the following steps: 
−  Preparation of the solution containing micafungin sodium and lactose monohydrate 
−  Pre-filtration of the solution 
−  Vial  and Stopper processing 
−  Final sterile filtration 
−  Filling 
−  Lyophilisation 
−  Stoppering and Flip-off capping 
−  Shrink-wrapping, labelling and packaging 
The  data  gathered  during  process  validation  and  the  provided  batch  analyses  on  three  consecutive 
validation batches per strength demonstrate that the manufacturing process is robust and consistently 
yields  drug  product,  which  meets  the  predetermined  quality  characteristics.  The  chosen  in-process 
controls have been shown to be suitable for monitoring the manufacturing process. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  for  batch  release  and  shelf-life  include  the  following  tests:  appearance  (visual), 
identification  (UV  and  HPLC),  pH  (PhEur),  colour  and  clarity  (visual),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
water (Karl Fisher), bacterial endotoxins (PhEur), content uniformity (PhEur), foreign insoluble matter 
(PhEur), particulate matter (PhEur), sterility (PhEur) and assay (HPLC). 
Regarding  the  50  mg  presentation,  batch  analysis  results  of  four  clinical  batches  manufactured  by 
method I, three batches for clinical and stability studies manufactured by method II and one scale up 
and  three  commercial  batches  manufactured  by  method  II  were  presented.  Regaring  the  100  mg 
presentation, batch analysis results of three pilot and three full scale batches produced with method II 
at two different plants, including three batches produced at the commercial manufacturing site, were 
presented. The results comply with the specification and confirm consistency of the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Three primary stability and three production scale batches of micafungin 50 mg powder for solution 
for  infusion  have  been  stored  for  up  to  39  and  up  to  42  months  respectively  under  long-term 
25°C/60% RH, and up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40°C/75%RH). Another three pilot 
scale  batches  of  micafungin  100  mg  powder  for  solution  for  infusion  have  been  placed  in  a  formal 
stability study under long-term conditions for up to 36 months and up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions.  
The composition and the manufacturing process of the primary stability batches as well as those of the 
production  scale  batches  are  the  same  as  that  proposed  for  marketing.  However,  the  UV  protecting 
8/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shrink film material and the lubricant formulation of the rubber stoppers of these batches are slightly 
different from the commercial presentation of the product. 
Therefore,  three  additional  production  batches  of  each  strength  manufactured  at  the  commercial 
manufacturing  site  using  the  same  container  closure  system  as  proposed  for  commercial  use,  have 
been  placed  in  a  formal  long-term  stability  study  and  in  an  accelerated  conditions  study  in  order  to 
confirm the available stability data. So far, data up to 24 months (50 mg) and 18 months (100 mg) in 
normal  and  up  to  6  months  in  accelerated  are  available  and  presented  but  studies  are  on-going. 
Although different materials for the UV protecting film have been utilised, the proposed shelf life is 
considered justified, because the equivalency between the two shrink film materials has been proven. 
The  product  has  shown  a  tendency  to  degrade  under  stress  testing  at  60°C  for  three  months  and/or 
under xenon lamp emission. However, no changes were observed when vials were wrapped in a light 
resistant packaging. 
All stability results of the primary and production scale batches stored under long-term conditions and 
under  accelerated  conditions  met  the  requirements  of  the  shelf-life  specification  over  the  studied 
period  and  therefore  confirm  the  proposed  shelf-life.  As  seen  from  the  photo-stability  study  the 
proposed over-wrapping material assures sufficient light protection. Therefore no storage precaution is 
required.  
In-use studies on reconstituted solutions in vial and in transfusions bag 
Several in-use stability studies have been performed on the 50 mg after reconstitution of the powder 
and further dilution with the recommended diluents (0.9% sodium chloride solution for injection and 
5%  glucose  solution).  For  the  100  mg  formulation  no  further  in-use  stability  tests  have  been 
conducted. The results of the different studies demonstrate that there is no difference between the low 
concentration  and  the  high  concentration  in  the  recommended  diluents.  Furthermore,  the  results 
confirm that there is no difference in the stability profile of the reconstituted and the diluted solution in 
a transfusion bag after 96 hours compared to the results obtained in the reconstitution study where the 
reconstituted solution was first stored for 48 hours in a vial and then further diluted in a transfusion 
bag and stored for additional 72 hours. No changes in description, osmolality,  pH, potency and related 
substances were observed both in 0.9% sodium chloride solution for injection and 5% glucose solution 
up to 96 hours when stored at room temperature with a light-resistant sleeve under 1,000 lux. 
In addition, the microbiological in-use stability has been demonstrated for 96 hours at 25°C in the 
diluted infusion solution. 
Based on the results of the different studies, the storage precautions as given in the SPC are considered 
appropriate.    
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Mycamine  powder  for  solution  for  infusion  is  adequately  established.  In  general, 
sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and 
control of the drug substance and drug product has been presented. There are no major deviations from 
EU  and  ICH  requirements.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and 
uniformity of all the important product quality characteristics. At the time of the CHMP opinion, there 
were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the 
product. The applicant submitted a Letter of Undertaking dated on 20 February 2008 and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
shelf life. 
It can be safely concluded that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the 
clinic.  
9/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  potential  efficacy  and  safety  of  micafungin  in  clinical  use  were  evaluated  in  a  comprehensive 
nonclinical  development  programme.  The  applicant  has  provided  a  reasonable  package  on 
pharmacology  studies  to  characterise  the  pharmacological  profile  of  micafungin.  Nonclinical  studies 
were  conducted  with  micafungin  drug  substance  (micafungin  sodium)  dissolved  in  physiological 
saline. The commercial product, which was also used in clinical studies, is a lyophilised formulation 
containing micafungin sodium and lactose monohydrate as stabiliser as well as anhydrous citric acid 
and  sodium  hydroxide  for  pH  adjustment.  All  excipients  of  the  formulation  are  well  known  and 
comply with the European Pharmacopoeia. 
The  antifungal  spectrum  and  activity  of  micafungin  was  established  using  in  vitro  microbiological 
methods  as  well  as  mouse  models  of  fungal  infections.  In  addition,  safety  pharmacology  data  were 
generated. 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted  in  animal  species  that  were  also  used  for  pharmacological 
(mice) and toxicological assessments (mice, rats, rabbits and dogs). A relationship between exposure 
and toxicity in animals was established. The pharmacokinetic programme also included in vitro and in 
vivo (human) drug-drug interaction studies. 
The  toxicological  development  programme  included  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in 
rats  (including  juveniles)  and  dogs,  reproductive  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  standard 
genotoxicity tests as well as additional toxicological assessments such as studies in juvenile animals 
(rats  and  dogs),  local  tolerance,  antigenicity  and  studies  to  establish  the  safety  of  impurities  and 
photodegradated drug product. Standard carcinogenicity studies have not been performed. In order to 
assess a carcinogenic potential of micafungin, repeat-dose toxicity studies including recovery periods 
which  approximately  cover  the  life  span  were  conducted  in  rats.  Together  with  the  safety 
pharmacology  data,  the  programme  was  appropriate  to  characterise  the  toxicological  profile  of 
micafungin. 
GLP aspects 
Standard  safety  pharmacology  tests  were  conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP  and  are  in  accordance 
with the requirements in ICH S7A for safety pharmacology studies. 
The pharmacokinetic studies were performed in Japan, where they are required to satisfy “Reliability 
Criteria” as stated in Article 18-4-3 of the “Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, Enforcement Ordinance and 
Enforcement  Regulations”.  Therefore,  the  quality  of  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  can  be  considered 
equivalent to that of GLP studies. 
Toxicokinetic measurements were integrated in repeat-dose toxicity studies. With the exception of two 
non-pivotal studies, all toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with GLP regulations. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
 The  exact  mechanism  of  action  of  micafungin  and  other  echinocandin  lipopeptides  upon  glucan 
synthase  activity  remains  to  be  elucidated.  However,  data  from  standard  biochemical  assays  and 
morphological techniques provided clear evidence that micafungin is a selective inhibitor of cell wall 
1,3-ß-D-glucan polymer synthesis. 
In  vitro  susceptibility  studies  of  yeast  and  filamentous  fungi  (standard  strains  and  clinical  isolates), 
were  performed,  with  modifications  according  to  the  Clinical  and  Laboratory  Standards  Institute 
10/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(CLSI) methods M27-A2 (Candida species) and M38-A (Aspergillus species), and in comparison to 
reference antifungal drugs. 
In vitro Micafungin displayed a broad spectrum and potent activity against Candida and Aspergillus 
species. In particular: 
Against Candida species: 
(cid:131)  The  MICs  were  higher  in  C. krusei,  C. parapsilosis  and  C. guilliermondii  as  compared  to 
C. albicans species. 
(cid:131)  Micafungin was fungicidal against most Candida species at concentrations of the MIC or above. 
This activity was time-dependent, but not concentration-dependent. 
(cid:131)  In vitro no resistance development could be induced in C. albicans. 
(cid:131)  No cross-resistances to micafungin were observed in azole-resistant Candida strains. 
Against Aspergillus species: 
(cid:131)  Micafungin  inhibited  conidial  growth,  germ  tube  emergence  and  hyphal  growth,  but  was  not 
fungicidal at concentrations of the MIC or above. 
MICs measured with human serum or in the presence of human serum albumin were 64- to 128-times 
higher than those measured without them, reflecting the high protein binding rate of micafungin. 
Micafungin  was  inactive  against  Cryptococcus  neoformans,  Trichosporon  spp.,  Fusarium  solani, 
Pseudallescheria boydii and zygomycetes. 
In Vivo efficacy of micafungin in mouse models 
The in vivo antifungal efficacy of micafungin was assessed using standard mouse models of infection. 
These  included  models  of  disseminated  candidiasis,  oesophageal  and  oropharyngeal  candidiasis, 
disseminated  and  pulmonary  aspergillosis  in  immunocompetent  and  in  immunocompromised  mice, 
which  represent  the  most  common  infections  in  immunocompromised  patients  (including  HIV 
patients) or in patients immunosuppressed as a result of underlying diseases or medications. 
Mice  were  immunocompetent,  neutropenic  or  corticosteroid-immunosuppressed.  Neutropenia  and 
corticosteroid immunosuppression in these models, however, may be considered transient. Particularly 
in later stages of the experimental period of survival tests micafungin and host defence mechanisms 
may  act 
the  oropharyngeal/oesophageal  candidiasis  model  a  congenitally 
in  concert.  For 
immunodeficient mouse strain was used.  
It  was  evident  from  these  studies  that  micafungin  is  highly  effective  in  both  the  treatment  and 
prevention of disseminated candidiasis and disseminated and pulmonary aspergillosis. 
In particular the studies indicate: 
With regard to Candida species infections: 
(cid:131)  Micafungin was highly effective in the treatment of disseminated candidiasis. 
(cid:131)  The  efficacy  of  micafungin  in  the  survival  model  was  not  obviously  influenced  by  the  immune 
status of the host and the time of treatment start. 
(cid:131)  Comparative  efficacy  studies  of  survival  demonstrated  that  higher  doses  are  required  for  non-
albicans  Candida  species  like  C. krusei,  C. parapsilosis,  and  C.  guilliermondii  than  for  C. 
albicans, C. glabrata and C. tropicalis. 
(cid:131)  Micafungin  was  highly  effective  against  azole-resistant  and  amphotericin  B-resistant  Candida 
species. 
(cid:131)  Against oropharyngeal and oesophageal candidiasis (C. albicans infected) in the immunodeficient 
mouse  an  eradicative  effect  of  micafungin  was  suggested,  which  provided  further  support  for  a 
fungicidal activity of micafungin against C. albicans species. 
11/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With regard to Aspergillus species infections: 
(cid:131)  Micafungin  proved  highly  effective  in  mouse  models  of  disseminated  and  pulmonary 
aspergillosis. 
(cid:131)  Micafungin was effective against both azole and amphothericin B resistant Aspergillus species. 
(cid:131)  The efficacy of micafungin was comparable to amphotericin B. 
(cid:131)  Micafungin was superior or similar in efficacy as compared to caspofungin.  
(cid:131)  Particularly in the case of pulmonary aspergillosis the type of immunosuppression appears to be 
important  for  the  dosing  regimen.  In  comparative  efficacy  studies  it  was  found  that  the  ED50  of 
micafungin was similar to that of AMPH-B in mice immunosuppressed with cyclophosphamide or 
5-fluorouracil.  However,  in  mice  immunosuppressed  with  hydrocortisone  the  efficacy  of 
micafungin was inferior to that of AMPH-B. 
(cid:131)  In  addition,  in  the  case  of  Aspergillus  infections,  ED50s  of  micafungin  were  higher  when  the 
treatment  start  was  at  24  hours  after  infection  than  at  a  treatment  start  at  1  hour  after  infection. 
Thus, for prophylactic treatment lower doses may be necessary than for treatment against probable 
or proven aspergillosis. 
Resistance induction 
Fifteen serial transfers of a typical C. albicans isolate on subinhibitory concentrations of micafungin 
did  not  substantially  change  its  MIC  value.  In  vivo  studies  further  indicated  a  low  potential  of 
micafungin for resistance development. No resistance induction was observed in C. albicans isolates 
obtained  from  patients  with  oesophageal  candidiasis.  Cultures  persistently  positive  during  treatment 
with  micafungin  showed  similar  sensitivities  against  micafungin  on  day  0  and  29.  In  addition,  no 
clinical isolates with acquired resistance to micafungin have been identified against Aspergillus spp. In 
patients that had persistent positive cultures for Aspergillus spp. (A. fumigatus, A. terreus) no change 
was noted in the MIC before, during (29th day) or after (1-4 days) the treatment. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology  
In standard safety pharmacology tests effects of micafungin upon cardiovascular and blood systems 
were evident. 
Haemolysis was observed in vitro (rabbit blood) at concentrations of 500 µg/ml micafungin. In rats in 
repeat-dose toxicity studies signs of haemolytic anaemia were observed. After the repeated daily bolus 
injection of high doses of micafungin haemolytic plasma concentrations might have been reached (at 
Cmax).  In  dogs  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  micafungin  was  infused  which  yielded  much  lower 
plasma  concentrations.  No  haemolytic  anaemia  was  observed  under  these  conditions.  As  the  risk  of 
micafungin-induced  haemolytic  anaemia  cannot  be  excluded  a  warning  concerning  this  matter  is 
included in the SPC (Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use). 
In  standard  safety  pharmacology  tests  cardiovascular  and  histamine  releasing  effects  of  micafungin 
were  evident  at  high  doses  (32  and  100  mg/kg  i.v.  bolus)  and  appeared  to  be  time  above  threshold 
dependent. Prolongation of infusion time reducing the plasma concentration peak appeared to abolish 
these effects. However, safety margins for histamine-mediated effects are low (2-3) and can also occur 
in patients. A warning has been included in the SPC (4.4) that during administration of micafungin, 
anaphylactoid reactions including shock may occur. 
In vitro and in vivo investigations to assess the potential for QT interval prolongations were generally 
negative,  so  it  can  be  considered  that  there  is  no  preclinical  evidence  of  risk  of  prolonging  the  QT 
interval for micafungin. 
Urinary excretion of electrolytes was increased in rats receiving 100 mg/kg micafungin suggesting an 
effect upon reabsorption of water and electrolytes. In a rat 26 week repeat-dose toxicity study at 32 
mg/kg/day, in parallel, increases in urinary excretion of sodium, potassium and chloride were noted, 
but these findings were not accompanied by changes in serum electrolytes. 
12/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions   
In Vitro interactions 
In  vitro  interactions  between  micafungin  and  relevant  antifungal  agents  were  evaluated  by  using  a 
checkerboard method based on the standard broth microdilution method M27-A recommended by the 
NCCLS. 
A combination of micafungin with amphotericin B (AMPH-B), fluconazole (FLCZ) and itraconazole 
(ITCZ)  had  additive  effects  against  C. albicans  isolates.  In  addition,  additive  interaction  was 
prevalently seen on A. fumigatus for the combination with AMPH-B and ITCZ. No antagonism was 
observed in any combination for C. albicans and A. fumigatus.  
While  micafungin  alone  was  reported  to  be  inactive  against  C. neoformans  strong  synergistic  or 
additive interaction was observed when combined with AMPH-B. Combination with ITCZ, however, 
displayed  antagonistic  effects  on  C. neoformans.  The  interaction  of  micafungin  and  FLCZ  was 
indifferent for all the isolates of C. neoformans tested. 
In Vivo interactions 
In order to validate in vitro positive interactions of combined treatment with micafungin and AMPH-B 
in  vivo  efficacy  was  evaluated  against  pulmonary  aspergillosis  induced  by  intranasal  challenge  with 
A. fumigatus IFM40836 in hydrocortisone immunosuppressed mice. 
Six days after infection treatment with low doses of micafungin or AMPH-B alone had no effect on 
fungal  burden  in  lungs.  However,  combined  treatment  of  the  two  drugs  at  low  doses  resulted  in  a 
significant decrease in colony counts as compared to control values.  
At  higher  doses  single  treatment  of  both  micafungin  and  AMPH-B  reduced  colony  counts 
significantly.  Further  significant  reductions  were  obtained  with  higher  doses  at  the  combined 
treatment. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Plasma  concentration  profiles  of  micafungin  were  determined  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  in  single-dose 
and repeat-dose studies at doses of 0.32 to 3.2 mg/kg and 3.2 to 32 mg/kg, respectively. Micafungin is 
protein  bound  in  these  species  to  more  than  99%,  similar  to  humans.  Protein  binding  was 
concentration-independent over a range of 10-100 µg/ml. 
In  the  single-dose  studies  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  linear  within  the  dose  range  studied. 
Linearity, however, was not maintained with repeated dosing in the rat. After repeated administration 
of  high  doses  of  micafungin  in  the  rat  accumulation  was  observed  suggesting  the  saturation  of 
metabolising  or  saturation  processes.  In  dogs,  similar  to  humans,  there  was  no  evidence  of 
accumulation of micafungin. 
Micafungin was rapidly distributed into the organs/tissues with the highest concentration at common 
sites of fungal infections (kidney, liver, and lungs). A high tissue to plasma ratio was maintained in the 
excretory organs (liver, kidneys) for 72 hours. Both organs were targets in repeat-dose toxicity studies. 
Micafungin  was  not  extensively  taken  up  by  blood  cells.  The  blood/plasma  partition  ratio  at 
concentration between 0.1-10 µg/ml micafungin was between 0.96-.99 in rats, 0.85-0.87 in mice, 0.73-
0.74 in dogs and 0.82-0.85 in humans, and did not change over this concentration range. 
Disposition studies with  14C-labelled  micafungin suggested that metabolites were slowly formed and 
slowly eliminated from the plasma of rats and dogs.  
13/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualitatively the same metabolites were found in rats, dogs and humans. Major metabolites were M-1, 
M-2 and M-5. The metabolites M-1 and M-2 were found in various tissues. M-1 formation was slower 
in  humans  as  compared  to  rats.  M-5  was  the  main  metabolite  found  in  rat  and  human  plasma.  This 
metabolite  was  demonstrated  to  be  formed  by  multiple  CYP  isoenzymes  (CYP1A2,  2B6,  2C  and 
3A4).  In  dogs,  M4  (a  sulfoconjugate  of  M5)  is  the  major  metabolite  and  this  metabolite  is  dog-
specific. 
In  vitro  susceptibility  tests  demonstrated  that  M-1  exhibited  an  activity  against  Candida  and 
Aspergillus  species  which  was  4-16  times  lower  than  that  of  micafungin  and  had  moderate  activity 
against C. neoformans and  T. cutaneum (strains that  were not inhibited by micafungin). The in vitro 
spectrum  and  activity  of  M-2  was  similar  to  micafungin.  M-5  was  128  times  less  active  than 
micafungin. The "metabolite" M-3 (or related substance 6) is the ring-opened form of micafungin. It is 
formed  in  solutions  under  neutral  or  basic  conditions  and  supposed  to  form  a  covalent  adduct  with 
proteins.  Acidified  micafungin  solutions  were  shown  to  minimise  this  degradation.  In  vivo  studies 
demonstrated little covalent binding and the amount of covalent binding did not increase with time.  
The biliary-faecal route was found to be the major excretion route in animals and humans. In rats and 
dogs,  the  excretion  reached  approximately  95%  after  144  hours.  Micafungin  was  able  to  cross  the 
placenta and was secreted into the milk of lactating rats. 
There  was  no  interaction  with  other  protein-bound  drugs.  Further  interaction  studies  with  CYP3A4 
substrates  indicated  that  interactions  are  most  unlikely  to  occur.  Micafungin  didn’t  inhibit  P-
glycoprotein. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  development  programme  included  single-dose  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in 
rats and dogs, reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits, standard genotoxicity tests as well as 
additional  toxicological  assessments  such  as  studies  in  juvenile  animals  (rats  and  dogs),  local 
tolerance,  antigenicity  and  studies  to  establish  the  safety  of  impurities  and  photodegradated  drug 
product.  In  order  to  assess  a  carcinogenic  potential  of  micafungin,  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies 
including recovery periods which approximately cover the life span were conducted in rats. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose studies in two mammalian species were  conducted in accordance with the EU guideline 
3BS1a  on  single-dose  toxicity.  Micafungin  was  administered  to  rats  (62.5,  125  and  250 mg/kg)  and 
dogs (100 and 200 mg/kg) using intravenous bolus injection.  
The  minimum  lethal  dose  of  Mycamine  is  125  mg/kg  in  rats  and  above  200  in  dogs,  equivalent  to 
about  respectively  5  and  25  times  the  maximum  recommended  human  clinical  dose  based  on  body 
surface area comparisons.  
Clinical  signs  prior  to  death  in  rats  included  decreased  spontaneous  movement,  clonic  convulsions, 
prone  position,  oligopnoea,  dark  red  ear  auricles  and  extremities,  and  swelling  of  the  face.  These 
symptoms  may  be  at  least  partly  related  to  endogenous  histamine  release.  In  dogs,  toxic  symptoms 
suggestive of histamine release were observed in the high dose group. Abnormal haematological and 
clinical chemistry parameters indicated haemolytic anaemia and hepatic injury. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics)  
In  the  rat  toxic  changes  were  occasionally  observed  at  a  daily  dose  of  3.2  mg/kg.  Changes  were 
consistently  found  at  the  highest  dose  administered  (32  mg/kg)  and  their  incidence  and  severity 
generally increased with time. The primary target organs of micafungin toxicity are the liver (in rats 
and dogs) and the urinary tract (in rats) at a dose of 32 mg/kg/day.  
14/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liver (rat) 
In  the  rat  indices  of  hepatic  injury  were  increased  activity  of  serum  ALT  and  AST.  Histologically, 
hepatic injury was indicated by degenerative changes and necrosis of hepatocytes and its subsequent 
adaptive changes (e.g. mitosis, in addition, in the 13- and 26-week studies: multinucleated hepatocytes 
and foci of cellular alterations). Foci in the 26-week study were clearly treatment-related and females 
were more affected than males. Although blood parameters (AST/ALT) returned to normal during a 4 
or 13 week recovery period in the 26-week study and most of the hepatic changes showed evidence for 
regression,  the  incidence  of  females  affected  with  foci,  the  number,  size  and  type  of  foci  were 
essentially  the  same  as  at  the  end  of  the  treatment.  There  was  neither  a  regression  nor  progression. 
Persistence of foci could suggest a preneoplastic process. 
After  the  occurrence  of  foci  of  altered  hepatocytes  (FAH)  which  were  not  reversible  even  after  a 
recovery period of 4 to 13 weeks had been identified as a concern in the first licensing procedure, the 
applicant conducted new studies (13-week treatment with 6, 12 and 21 months recovery, respectively; 
26-week-treatment with 6, 12 and 18 months recovery, respectively). These studies showed that part 
of  the  FAH  are  not  reversible  and  persist  or  develop  into  tumours  after  a  long  recovery  period. 
Regarding the size of FAH a progression was found with increasing time (recovery) and at least at the 
highest dosage (32 mg/kg) significantly increased tumour rates were induced in both studies. 
After 6 months of treatment, 20 mg/kg micafungin clearly induces (statistically significant) FAH and 
increased  tumour  rates  were  observed  at  the  end  of  a  12  month  recovery  period  (not  statistically 
significant). Even if the increase in tumour rate at 20 mg/kg is not statistically significant, it is to be 
considered  biologically  relevant  in  view  of  the  complete  data  available.  Therefore,  the  NOAEL  for 
both effects (induction of FAH and tumours) is unknown but less than 20 mg/kg. Both, the AUC0-24h in 
female  rat  at  10  mg/kg  and  the  AUC0-24h  in humans  at  the  intended  max.  human  therapeutic  dose  is 
approximately  200  µg/ml.  Thus,  there  is  no  reliable  safety  margin  to  the  intended  therapeutic 
exposure.  
In order to support the assumption that tumour development in rat is based on a non-genotoxic mode 
of  action  the  applicant  has  conducted  an  in  vitro  study  on  unscheduled  DNA  synthesis  (UDS)  in 
primary  female  rat  hepatocyte  cultures.  This  study  demonstrated  that  micafungin  (at  concentrations 
which produced no or weak cytotoxicity) does not  induce unscheduled DNA synthesis in female rat 
hepatocytes.  Calculation  of  equivalent  plasma  concentrations  in  patients  and  rats  showed  that  the 
concentration ranges applied in the UDS trials covered and exceeded those determined in repeat dose 
toxicity studies in rats and those determined in patients at therapeutic doses. Thus, the non-genotoxic 
mode  of  action  for  FAH  development  and  subsequent  tumour  formation  in  the  rat  liver  is  further 
confirmed and supported. 
The mechanism for FAH and tumour development has not been elucidated. Based on the NOAEL for 
FAH development the threshold for tumour development is assumed to be at 10 mg/kg/day, which is 
approximately in the therapeutic range. At this threshold for tumour development, the AUC in female 
rats is in the range of human AUCs at therapeutic doses, i.e. there aren’t any safety margins at least for 
the high therapeutic doses (safety factor for adult patients at the 150 mg/day dose: 1.2). Especially in 
paediatric patients the safety margin at a dose of 4 mg/kg is < 1 (0.7). 
Liver (dog) 
In  the  dog  liver  enlargement  and  discoloration  of  the  liver  indicated  hepatotoxicity.  Histologically 
centrilobular hypertrophy of hepatocytes was noted. The proliferation of the endoplasmatic reticulum 
might  indicate  an  induction  of  microsomal  enzymes.  Abnormal  laboratory  parameters  indicating 
hepatic  injury,  however,  were  not  noted  in  any  repeat  dose  study  in  dogs.  The  NOAEL  for  hepatic 
injury in the dog was established at 10 mg/kg/day. 
15/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood  
Dose-dependent signs of haemolysis were observed in rats at 10 and 32 mg/kg/day administered as a 
bolus injection. Signs of haemolytic anaemia were present in all repeat-dose studies at doses of 10 and 
32 mg/kg/day. At 32 mg/kg/day, the haemolytic action of micafungin was evident by a decrease in red 
blood cells, haemoglobin and haematocrit. The changes were accompanied by a regenerative response. 
The  NOAEL  for  the  induction  of  haemolysis  in  rat  was  3.2 mg/kg/day.  The  haemolytic  effect  of 
micafungin in vivo is suggested to be based on Cmax values reached in the blood and/or the time spent 
above  a  threshold  concentration.  Although  signs  of  haemolytic  anaemia  were  observed  in  dogs 
following  single  administration  of  200 mg/kg,  there  were  no  abnormal  haematological  parameters 
indicating  haemolysis  in  the  repeat-dose  studies.  As  the  risk  of  micafungin-induced  haemolytic 
anaemia  can  not  be  excluded  a  warning  concerning  this  matter  is  included  in  the  SPC  (Section  4.4 
Special warnings and precaution for use).  
Urinary tract (rat) 
Changes  in  the  urinary  tract  consisted  of  vacuolation  of  the  renal  pelvic  epithelium  and  mucosal 
epithelium of the urinary bladder after 32 mg/kg were noted after 4-week treatment. The changes were 
reversible  on  cessation  of  the  treatment.  In  a  first  26-week  study,  histological  changes  included 
haemosiderin deposition in the proximal tubular epithelium, dilatation and swelling of the collecting 
duct  epithelium,  vacuolation  of  the  renal  pelvic  epithelium  as  well  as  vacuolation  and  thickening 
(hyperplasia) of the bladder epithelium at a dose of 32 mg/kg. Slight to mild vacuolation of the renal 
pelvic epithelium occurred in 7/14 males and 5/14 females, while hyperplasia of transitional cells in 
the urinary bladder as well as mild vacuolation of the bladder epithelium (14/14 males, 14/14 females) 
was observed at 32 mg/kg/day. The reversibility of the changes was not assessed. Abnormal urinalysis 
findings  consisting  of  increased  urine  volume,  decreased  urine  pH  and  increased  excretion  of 
electrolytes,  mainly  sodium  and  chloride,  were  noted  in  the  26-week  study.  These  changes  were 
accompanied by an increase in water intake. Small increases in blood urea nitrogen, but no increase in 
creatinine was recorded. Increased urinary excretion of electrolytes (sodium, chloride, potassium) was 
also observed in the safety pharmacology study. However, decreased serum electrolytes as a potential 
consequence of electrolyte loss via the urine were not found in repeat-dose studies. In a more recent 
26-week  study,  only  3  out  of  20  animals  showed  vacuolation  of  the  renal  pelvic  epithelium  and 
hyperplasia of transitional cells in the urinary bladder at a dose of 32 mg/kg and these changes showed 
to be reversible after 18 months.  
Male genital tract 
In male dogs, dose-dependent testicular toxicity was observed in the 39-week toxicity study at 10 and 
32 mg/kg/day. The reversibility of the findings was not assessed. The Applicant refers to literature to 
substantiate  that  the  effects  on  germ  cells  observed  are  probably  reversible.  Although  this  appears 
acceptable,  with respect to the changes  in the Sertoli cells reversibility is less  certain. The  applicant 
has  provided  a  further  discussion  on  the  reversibility  of  testicular  findings.  He  supposes  that  Sertoli 
cell  vacuolation  is  a  secondary  event  due  to  phagocytosis  of  degenerate  germ  cells  and  therefore 
reversible after withdrawal of the compound. However, a final conclusion on the reversibility of this 
finding can not be drawn. Given the fact that the NOAEL for male genital toxicity leads to AUC levels 
which are in the therapeutic range this issue is addressed in the labelling under section 4.6. 
In rats, reduced sperm count and vacuolation of epithelial cells in the epididymides were observed at 
32 mg/kg/day in the study on fertility and early embryonic development. In repeat-dose studies in rats, 
micafungin did not affect male reproductive organs although the treatment duration was longer than in 
the fertility study (up to 26 weeks versus 9 weeks). The NOAEL with respect to toxicity to the male 
genital  tract  was  10  mg/kg/day  in  rats,  and  3.2  mg/kg/day  in  dogs.  Taken  together,  the  findings 
indicated that micafungin may have the potential to affect male fertility in humans 
A study in juvenile dogs was performed to evaluate testis toxicity after 39-week micafungin treatment 
(including a recovery period of 13 weeks in mid-dose and high-dose animals) and to compare the testis 
toxicity in juvenile dogs with that in adult dogs. Segmental seminiferous tubular hypoplasia (minimal) 
16/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was observed in 3/4 animals of the 10 mg/kg group. This change was not observed in the animals of 
the  32 mg/kg  group,  and  was  noted  in  animals  of  both  recovery  groups.  Based  on  historical  control 
data for the years 2002 until 2006 it can be acknowledged that “Segmental hypoplasia of seminiferous 
tubule” may occur spontaneously in beagle dogs, but unfortunately only historical control values from 
one study are available for the 13-months age group (which is the age group of the recovery animals at 
the time of histopathology) showing no spontaneously occurring effects.  
As testicular toxicity had been observed in two animal species and reversibility of these effects had not 
been  proven sufficiently, a  statement  has  included  in  the  SPC  (Section  4.6  Pregnancy  and lactation; 
Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data) that micafungin may affect male fertility in humans.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Micafungin was tested in standard ICH battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests according to 
ICHS2B without evidence for genotoxicity.  
Table 1: Overview of genotoxicity studies 
Type of test 
Study No 
Test system 
Concentrations/ 
Metabolising system 
Results 
Gene mutations in bacteria 
Chromosomal  
aberrations  
in vitro 
Salmonella strains 
TA 100, 98, 1535, 1537 
Escherichia coli WP2 
uvrA 
Chinese Hamster Lung  
Cells  
Chromosomal aberrations  
in vivo 
Unscheduled DNA Synthesis 
(UDS) 
in vitro 
ICR strain mice  
(5 males per group). 
Micronuclei in bone 
marrow 
Female rat hepatocytes
+/- S9: 156, 313, 625, 1250, 2500, 5000 
µg/plate  
negative
Direct method: 24/48 h 
Treatment: 40, 80, 160  µg/ml  (-S9)   
Metabolic activation method: 
6 h (- S9) 1250, 2500, 5000 µg/ml 
6 h (+ S9) 625, 1250, 2500 µg/ml 
1x i.v.:  25, 50 or 100 mg/kg 
sampling 24, 48 72 h after dos. 
Plasmalevel at 100 mg/kg: C5min = 532 
µg/ml 
AUC0-24 = 2763 µg hr/ml 
negative 
negative
Cytotoxicity: 0.5 µg/ml to 5790 µg/ml 
UDS: 0.06 µg/ml to 12.4 µg/ml 
negative
•  Carcinogenicity 
No standard carcinogenicity studies were conducted in either rats or mice with micafungin. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The  effects  of  micafungin  on  reproduction  were  assessed  using  a  3-study  design.  In  studies  in  rats, 
decreased body weight gain and impaired liver function (increase in plasma ALT) were observed at 32 
mg/kg,  the  highest  dose  tested  (HD),  in  adult  male  and/or  female  animals.  In  HD  males,  effects  on 
reproductive  organs  and  sperms  were  detected.  Although  treatment-related  effects  on  male 
reproductive organs (testes and epididymidis) and sperm cell count have not been observed in a 26-
week toxicity study in rats, similar effects have been noted in the 39-week toxicity study in dogs. This 
issue has been addressed in the SPC sections 4.6 and 5.3.  
In rats and rabbits no treatment-related effects on embryo/foetal development had been observed up to 
the highest dose tested. Reduced pup birth weights and a possibly related delay in the time of opening 
of  the  eyelids  and  cleavage  of  the  balanopreputia  were  the  only  effects  observed  in  the  HD  F1-
generation  in  the  course  of  the  prenatal  and  postnatal  developmental  study  in  rats.  As  body weights 
17/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were comparable to control values on postnatal days 14 and 21 this is of minor concern. Micafungin 
crossed the placenta of pregnant rats and was excreted into the milk of lactating rats.  
Juvenile animals 
A  2-week  and  a  4-week  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  has  been  performed  in  newborn/juvenile  rats 
toxic  effects  seen  in  the  liver,  kidney,  urinary  bladder,  red  blood  cells  (4-week  study),  and  organ 
weights were restricted to high dose animals. Differences in the severity of these effects seem to be 
dependent  on  treatment  duration.  While  in  the  2-week  study  liver  effects  were  more  pronounced 
compared  to  the  results  of  the  4-week  study,  treatment  with  micafungin  for  28  consecutive  days 
revealed more toxic effects in the kidneys (high dose males and females), urinary bladder (high dose 
males  and  females),  and  red  blood  cells  (haemolysis,  high  dose  males  only).  Toxicokinetic 
investigations had been done in the course of the 4-week study (at the end of treatment week 2 and 4). 
Cmax  as  well  as  AUC0-24  values  were  comparable  at  the  end  of  treatment  week  2  and  4.  Based  on 
effects observed in the liver, kidneys, urinary bladder and red blood cells the NOAEL has to be set at 
10 mg/kg/d.  Corresponding  Cmax  (~  21µg/ml)  and  AUC0-24  (~  190  µg*h/ml)  values  were  just  in  the 
range  of  those  achieved  in  adult  patients  at  a  dose  of  200 mg/d  (Cmax  22.6 µg/ml,  AUC0-24  210 
µg*h/ml)  and  was  similar  to  the  one  measured  in  one  10-years  old  child  who  had  received  6  mg 
micafungin/kg/d  for  56  days  for  treatment  of  deep  mycosis.  Regarding  premature  infants  a  small 
sample size of 23 infants had been treated with single doses of 0.75, 1.5, or 3.0 mg/kg, respectively. 
The  maximum  dose  level  of  3  mg/kg/d  revealed  exposure  levels  (Cmax:  9.3  µg/ml,  AUC0-24:  59.5 
µg*h/ml) well below those obtained in newborn/juvenile animals at a dose of 10 mg/kg/d, but it has to 
be  kept  in  mind  that  only  single  dose  kinetics  had  been  investigated  in  this  patient  group.  Toxic 
changes in the liver, kidneys, and urinary bladder remain a safety problem as only low safety margins 
can be established.  
In general toxic effects were seen in animals at exposure levels which were approximately in the same 
range  as  compared  to  clinical  exposure  levels.  Consequently,  all  toxic  effects  observed  can  be 
expected in human clinical use of micafungin.  
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  studies  were  designed  to  assess  the  perivenous  and  intra-arterial  tolerance  of 
micafungin following a single injection in adult New Zealand White rabbits. At concentrations ranging 
from 0.5 to 4.0 mg/ml,  micafungin did not produce any dose-related local tissue reactions. In the 4-
week rat study following intravenous bolus injection, dose-dependent increase of vascular lesions  at 
the injection site was observed at all doses. In a 4-week rat study using 1-hour infusion, the incidence 
of  injection  site  reactions  was  comparable  between  controls  and  micafungin  treated  rats  (10  and  32 
mg/kg/day). The highest micafungin concentration administered via 1-hour intravenous infusion was 
1.6 mg/ml (32 mg/kg/day). In the SPC, Section 6.6 (Instruction for use and handling), final micafungin 
concentrations in the infusion solutions are 2.0 mg/ml at the maximum clinical dose of 200 mg/day. 
Thus the micafungin concentrations administered in the 4-week rat study using 1-hour infusion do not 
reach  the  micafungin  concentrations  at  the  maximum  clinical  dose  of  200  mg/day.  Injection  site 
reactions are reported in the Section 4.8 of the SPC (Undesirable effects). 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Micafungin did not induce delayed or immediate hypersensitivity reactions as assessed in a skin test, 
active systemic anaphylaxis (ASA) and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) tests.  
In toxicological, clinical and commercial batches, five impurities (RS6, RS7+8, RS9 and RS10) were 
found  at  levels  >  0.2%.  Additional  toxicity  studies  using  repeated  dosing  for  4  and  13  weeks  were 
performed to establish the safety of these impurities. A batch micafungin drug substance containing a 
high level of impurities was specifically manufactured for this purpose. From the results of the studies, 
the  toxicity  of  micafungin  drug  substance  with  a  high  level  of  impurities  was  considered  to  be  not 
higher than that of pure micafungin. 
18/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment  
The applicant has used the guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for 
human use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00 draft) from January 2005. The PEC was above the threshold 
specified in the final guideline (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) of 2006. However the MAA was 
submitted before this guideline came into effect. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Micafungin (FK463) is a water-soluble lipopeptide compound (echinocandin) synthesized by chemical 
modification of a fermentation product of Coleophoma empetri F-11899. Micafungin belongs to a new 
class of antifungal drugs, the echinocandins. 
A total of 41 human pharmacology studies have been conducted as part of the development program 
for micafungin. 14 studies used human biomaterials and 31 clinical pharmacokinetic (PK) studies. 
The main clinical programme to support the indication consisted of: 
-   One phase III, multicentre, randomised (1:1), active controlled, double blind, parallel group study 
in adult and paediatric patients with confirmed candidaemia or invasive candidiasis (IC); 
-    One phase III multicentre, randomised (1:1:1), ,double blind, parallel group non inferiority study to 
assess  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  micafungin  compared  to  fluconazole  in  adult  patients  with 
oesophageal candidiasis (EC); 
-   One  phase  III  multicentre,  randomised  (1:1)  ,double  blind,  parallel  group  non  inferiority  study 
comparing micafungin to caspofungin in adult patients with EC; 
-   One phase III randomised (1:1) double blind study in adult and paediatric patients haematopoietic 
stem cell transplant recipients, comparing micafungin to fluconazole in the prophylaxis of invasive 
fungal infections (IFI). 
Micafungin is to be administered as an intravenous infusion over approximately 1 hour at a daily dose 
of 100 mg (body weight > 40 kg) and 2 mg/kg (body weight ≤ 40 kg) for the treatment of invasive 
candidiasis in adults and paediatrics. Dose may be increased to 200 mg/day respective 4 mg/kg/day, if 
the patient’s response is inadequate. 
For the treatment of oesophageal candidiasis in adults the daily dose is 150 mg (body weight > 40 kg) 
and 3 mg/kg (body weight ≤ 40 kg).  
The  daily  dose  of  micafungin  for  prophylaxis  of  Candida  and  Aspergillus  infection  in  adults  and 
paediatrics is 50 mg (body weight > 40 kg) and 1 mg/kg (body weight ≤ 40 kg). 
GCP 
The applicant stated GCP compliance and accordance with ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  summary  the  PK  of  micafungin  in  adults  is  consistent  across  studies.  Studies  with  both  healthy 
subjects  and  patients  showed  a  biexponential  decline  in  micafungin  concentrations,  a  mean  half-life 
values  of  approximately  15  hours  which  remained  constant  with  increases  in  dose,  no  evidence  of 
systemic accumulation with repeated administration, increases in systemic exposure (AUC and Cmax) 
proportional to increases in dose and steady-state reached by Day 7 after daily repeated administration.  
19/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Methods 
Analytical Methods 
Micafungin and its metabolites M-1, M-2 and M-5 were measured by two separate HPLC systems that 
were used for the separation of 1) M-5 and 2) micafungin, M-1, and M-2. Separation on both systems 
was achieved on a TSK gel ODS -80 TM (15 cm x 4.6 mm ID, Tosoh) column using a mobile phase 
consisting  of  acetonitrile/20 mM  potassium  dihydrogenphosphate.  Gradient  elution  was  used  for  the 
separation of M-5. Fluorescence detection was used to detect micafungin and its metabolites. 
The  same  chromatographic  conditions  were  used  for  the  measurements  of  micafungin  and  its 
metabolites M-1, M-2, and M-5 in human urine as those described above for human plasma. 
Plasma protein binding was studied using the ultrafiltration method. In principle, micafungin in human 
plasma  or  plasma  ultrafiltrate  was  assayed  by  HPLC  with  fluorescence  detection.  The 
chromatographic conditions were the same as those described above for human plasma.  
The  precision  and  accuracy  of  the  methods  were  high,  and  show  that  the  analytical  method  used  in 
each study was valid for the determination of micafungin. 
Pharmacokinetic data analysis 
PK analysis was performed model-independently using WinNonlin and standard procedures. In some 
cases, a two-compartment model was used. 
Statistical analysis 
T-tests and ANOVA were used, depending on needs.  
•  Absorption/ Bioavailability 
Micafungin is intended for intravenous use only. 
The pharmacokinetics of micafungin administered once daily as a 1-h infusion, or even as a 30-min or 
a  2-h  infusion  in  early  clinical  studies,  is  quite  reproducible  and  is  well  described  by  a  linear  two-
compartment model over a wide range of doses (certainly 25 to 150 mg/day, or 0.5 to 3 mg/kg body 
weight  in  children).  Linear  pharmacokinetics  was  demonstrated  in  healthy  volunteers  up  to  150 
mg/day, as well as in adult and paediatric patients, some of them received  even much higher doses. 
There  is  no dose-  or  time-dependency, although  very  high doses  (8  mg/kg  in adults  and 4 mg/kg  in 
children)  may  result  in  some  accumulation,  as  suggested  by  comparison  of  trough  concentrations. 
However, comparison of dose normalized AUC from adults and paediatric patients (less than 5 years 
group and greater than 5 years group) revealed no accumulation. 
In healthy volunteers, Cmax range from 2 µg/ml after a 25-mg dose to 15 µg/ml after a 150-mg dose. 
Trough concentrations at steady state with a 75-mg/day regimen were around 2.4 µg/ml, i.e. ∼2 µM. 
Exposure steady state is reached after 4 days, however no earlier time points were tested. The plasma 
concentrations  of  micafungin  at  steady  state  (  Cmax,  AUC,  trough  concentrations)  are  approximately 
40–60%  higher  than  after  a  single  dose.  This  is  explained  by  the  long  elimination  time  (∼15  h;  see 
below). Steady state is reached at a similar rate in cancer patients and neutropenic children. 
Micafungin  was  infused  at  single  doses  of  25,  50,  75  or  150  mg  or  daily  at  75  mg  for  7  days, 
administered as a 30-60 minute infusion. After a single infusion of micafungin, t½, CLt, Vdss and Vdß 
were independent of the dose administered, and AUC0-inf increased in proportion to dose (r = 0.989, n 
= 23) from 34 to 216 µg*h/ml. After repeated daily infusions of 75 mg micafungin, steady-state was 
reached  by  Day  4  (AUC0-inf  =  108  µg*h/ml).  Values  for  t½,  CLt,  Vdss,  and  Vdß  were  similar  after  a 
single dose of micafungin compared with values after repeated doses. M-1 and M-2 levels were very 
low.  Micafungin  was  extensively  bound  to  plasma  proteins:  99.83  ±  0.01%  on  Day  1  and  99.82  ± 
0.01% on Day 7. Micafungin (unchanged drug) in urine was 0.74 ± 0.10% of the administered dose. 
Urinary  recovery  of  M-1  was  0.15  ±  0.02%  and  M-2  measurements  were  below  the  LOQ  in  all 
subjects. 
20/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Following  intravenous  infusion,  there  is  a  rapid  and  extensive  biotransformation  process  as 
micafungin distributes into the tissues. The apparent volume of distribution of 0.2 l/kg is larger than 
the  volume  of  the  interstitial  fluid,  but  it  does  not  increase  when  going  from  steady  state  to 
pseudodistribution  equilibrium,  which  means  that  equilibrium  between  plasma  and  tissue  is  reached 
rapidly.  
The percent of micafungin transferred into human red blood cells is approximately 35%. Based on in 
vitro  studies  with  human  biomaterials,  micafungin  is  highly  protein  bound  (>  99%),  primarily  to 
albumin and, to a lesser extent, to alpha-1-acid glycoprotein.  
A high level of covalent binding to albumin and other proteins was demonstrated (24% at 24 h, based 
on  radiolabeled  FK463).  Covalent  adducts  with  cysteine  and  lysine,  but  not  with  glutathione,  have 
been found. This raises the possibility that micafungin may induce allergic or immunological reactions 
(cf.  the  haemolysis  and  hepatotoxicity  problems).  An  in  vitro  test  for  haemolysis  at  high 
concentrations  of  micafungin  (500  µg/ml)  was  negative,  but  the  predictive  value  of  this  test  for 
immune-mediated haemolysis is probably very low. 
Micafungin  does  not  displace  albumin-bound  bilirubin  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations  (and 
therefore would not be expected to cause kernicterus) and is not an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (and 
therefore would not be expected to alter P glycoprotein mediated drug transport activity). Micafungin 
may form covalent adducts with HSA via cysteine and lysine residues. 
•  Metabolism  
Micafungin undergoes oxidative hepatic metabolism depending on several CYP isoforms. At least 12 
metabolites were detected in animals by HPLC. Qualitatively the five metabolites detected in humans 
(M-5, M-1, M-2 in plasma and M-3, M-11 in faeces and urine) were also found in rats and dogs. In 
vitro, M-2 has a potency and spectrum of activity similar to that of the parent compound; M-1 is 4- to 
16-fold less potent than the parent compound; and M-5 has no activity (< 1% of parent compound). 
Given the  minimal concentrations of M-1 and M-2 in plasma in both volunteers and HSCT patients 
and the biological inertness of M-5, it is unlikely that metabolites in plasma contribute to the activity 
of  micafungin.  The  enzymes  involved  in  the  synthesis  of  M-1  and  M-2  have  not  been  defined.  The 
contribution of M-1 and M-2 metabolites to the tissue actions of micafungin is unknown. 
In vitro, the metabolism of micafungin involves multiple CYP isoenzymes including CYP1A2, 2B6, 
2C and 3A4. Concentration–dependant inhibition of CYP3A4 was observed in vitro, with no effect at 
5 µM and 80% inhibition at 50 µM, which is equivalent to a Cmax of 60 µg/ml (observed with a dose of 
8 mg/kg in patients). However, no clinically relevant interaction was observed in this regard.  
The  role  of  the  liver  in  micafungin  overall  metabolism  appears  minor,  and  cannot  be  qualified  as 
“extensive” despite several involved isoenzymes. Therefore, a single dose study, although performed 
in 8 patients with a 7-9 Child-Pugh score, is considered acceptable at the present time.  
•  Elimination  
After  intravenous  infusion,  micafungin  concentrations  decline  in  a  biexponential  manner  with  a 
terminal half-life of 14 to 15 h (mean: 14.7 h) that is dose-independent  up to 150 mg. Total clearance, 
which is about 0.2 ml/min/kg, is also independent of dose, supporting the lack of accumulation that 
has been observed in repeated dose studies in healthy volunteers. 
Renal  clearance  is  <10%  of  total  clearance.  The  main  elimination  pathway  is  faecal  (90%),  but  the 
excretion of all micafungin compounds is very slow (t½ ∼300 h in the radioactive study). By Day 28, 
approximately 82.5% of the radioactive dose was recovered with a further 4.9% extrapolated as being 
excreted between Days 29 to 55. During prolonged treatment, it has been observed some accumulation 
of M-1 (4 % at Day 7) and M-2 (0.8 %) metabolites, which however do not reach clinically significant 
levels.  
21/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Inter-individual variability 
The effect of age, gender and race on pharmacokinetics of micafungin is minimal. No adjustment of 
dose  is  needed  in  elderly  patients.  It  has  been  observed  a  slightly  higher  exposure  of  micafungin  in 
Mulatto as compared to Caucasian and Black at day 1 and the EOT. Comparative data on Asians are 
missing.  
•  Special populations 
The pharmacokinetics of micafungin has been examined in a small (n=9) group of patients with severe 
renal insufficiency, and no significant difference was seen with a group of normal volunteers.  
For  hepatic  insufficiency,  a  single-dose  study  has  shown  that  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-
Pugh score 7-9) slightly decreases exposure to micafungin, partly due to a faster clearance. This does 
not require dose adjustment.  
Children 
PK parameters were obtained:  
• 
• 
• 
in  premature  infants,  where  clearance  was  approximately  2-  to  6-fold  greater  than  in  adults  with 
doses of 0.75 mg/kg, 1.5 mg/kg and 3.0 mg/kg as a single 30-minute infusion; 
in  paediatric  patients  29  days  to  15  years  old  with  deep  mycoses,  where  systemic  exposure  as 
assessed  by  Cmax  and  Cmin  but  not  by  full  PK  profiles  or  AUCs  increased  with  increases  in  dose 
(daily infusions of 1, 2, 3 or 6 mg/kg micafungin), indicating clear accumulation; 
in febrile neutropenic patients 2 to 17 years old, as a once daily 1-hour infusion of 0.5 to 4.0 mg/kg.  
CL,  Vss,  and  t½  remained  constant  with  increasing  doses  and  did  not  change  appreciably  with 
repeated administration. Plasma metabolite levels remained low.  
The applicant committed to provide the results of US paediatric studies once finalized.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro studies did not suggest any potential interaction with micafungin. 
inhibitors  and 
inducers.  Mycophenolate  mofetil  (MMF),  ciclosporin, 
Fourteen  (14)  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  potential  for  interaction 
between  micafungin  and  drugs  commonly  used  in  the  target  patient  populations,  including  CYP3A 
tacrolimus, 
substrates, 
prednisolone, sirolimus, nifedipine, fluconazole, voriconazole, itraconazole, amphotericin B, ritonavir 
(a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4) and rifampicin (a potent inducer of CYP3A4) were evaluated. In these 
studies, no interaction altering micafungin PK was observed. There was also no effect of single-dose 
or steady-state micafungin on MMF, ciclosporin, tacrolimus, prednisolone, fluconazole voriconazole, 
ritonavir  or  rifampicin  PK.  Increases  in  exposure  (AUC)  with  sirolimus  (total  exposure  AUC0-72  by 
21%),  nifedipine  (total  exposure  AUC0-inf  and  Cmax  by  42%),  amphotericin  B  (by  30%)  and 
itraconazole  (by  22%)  in  the  presence  of  steady-state  micafungin  were  observed.  It  is  thus,  that 
patients  receiving  sirolimus,  amphotericin  B  or  itraconazole  should  be  monitored.  As  increases  in 
exposure  (AUC)  with  sirolimus  (by  15%),  nifedipine  (by  18%)  amphotericin  B  (by  30%)  and 
itraconazole (by 22%) in the presence of steady-state micafungin were small, a requirement for dose 
adjustments is not anticipated. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Please see the non-clinical part of this report. 
22/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Please see the non-clinical part of this report. 
Clinical efficacy  
Introduction 
The  clinical  evidence  of  efficacy  in  the  invasive  candidiasis  indication  has  been  demonstrated  by  a 
large double-blind comparative study of micafungin versus Ambisome® (Study FG-463-21-08).  
For  the  oesophageal  candidiasis  indication,  a  double-blind  comparative  trial  of  micafungin  versus 
fluconazole  (Study  03-7-005),  and  a  double-blind  comparative  trial  of  two  dose  regimens  of 
micafungin versus caspofungin (Study 03-7-008) were conducted.  
Concerning  the  prophylaxis  indication  the  submitted  pivotal  study  has  been  reviewed  taking  into 
account  some  concerns  such  as  the  choice  of  the  comparator  fluconazole,  the  choice  of  the  pre-
engraftment period as the treatment period, the choice of the primary and secondary endpoints, and the 
targeted population for this indication.  
Analysis sets were common to all studies, as follows: 
•  Full analysis set (FAS [safety population and secondary efficacy population]): Patients who were 
randomised and received at least a single dose of study drug. 
•  Modified full analysis set (mFAS [secondary efficacy population]): Patients who had a confirmed 
diagnosis of IC or candidaemia or EC and received at least a single dose of study drug. 
•  Per  protocol  set  (PPS  [primary  efficacy  population]):  Patients  who  had  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of 
candidaemia  or  IC  or  EC  at  baseline,  for  whom  the  investigator’s  assessment  of  overall  treatment 
success at EOT was available, who received at least 5 doses of study drug, and who did not have any 
further major protocol violations. 
Table 2: Dose-response and main studies: 
Protocol 
Objective 
FG-463-21-
09 
Dose 
response, 
safety / PK 
FG-463-21-
08 
Efficacy 
Safety 
PK 
Main study 
03-7-005 
Efficacy, 
safety 
Main study 
Design/ 
Control 
Double-blind, 
randomised 
(1:1:1:1), 
comparative 
micafungin 
versus 
fluconazole 
Phase III 
Double-blind, 
comparative, 
randomised 
(1:1) 
Micafungin 
versus 
AmBisome 
Phase III 
Double-blind, 
randomised 
(1:1), 
comparative, 
Product/ 
No. of 
Subjects/ 
Dose/Route 
Subjects 
Diagnosis 
1-hr infusion daily of 
micafungin (50 mg or 
100 
mg or 150 mg) or 1-hr 
infusion daily of 
fluconazole (200 mg). 
Micafungin 
185 
Fluconazole 
60 
Adult HIV-
positive 
patients with 
oesophageal 
candidiasis 
Micafungin 
264 adults 
52 paediatrics 
AmBisome 
267 adults 
54 
paediatrics 
Neutropenic or 
nonneutropenic 
adult and 
paediatric 
patients 
with confirmed 
candidaemia or 
invasive 
candidiasis 
1-hr IV infusion daily 
Micafungin: 100 
mg/day 
(2 mg/kg/day ≤40kg) 
with a 
possible increase up to 
200 mg/day 
(4 mg/kg/day δ40 kg) 
AmBisome: 3 
mg/kg/day, 
with a possible 
increase up 
to 5 mg/kg/day 
1-hr IV infusion 1x 
daily 
micafungin (150 mg) 
or 1-hr 
IV infusion 1x daily 
Treatment 
Duration 
(micafungin) 
14 days 
minimum, 
extension to 21 
days possible if 
endoscopic 
clearance not 
achieved by 14 
days. 
Minimum of 2 
weeks; maximum 
of 4 weeks. 
Possible 
extension to 
8 weeks for 
predefined 
patients 
Micafungin 
260 
Fluconazole 
258 
Patients ≥ 16 
years 
with confirmed 
oesophageal 
candidiasis 
14 days minimum 
or 7 days after 
resolution of 
clinical signs and 
symptoms, 
23/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
03-7-008 
Efficacy, 
safety, 
PK 
Main study 
98-0-050 
Efficacy, 
safety of 
micafungin 
versus 
fluconazole 
Main study 
parallel-group 
Micafungin 
versus 
fluconazole 
Phase III 
Double-blind, 
comparative, 
randomised 
(1:1:1), 
parallel-group 
Micafungin 
versus 
caspofungin 
Phase III 
Double-blind 
randomised 
(1:1) 
Micafungin 
versus 
fluconazole 
fluconazole (200 mg) 
1 hr IV infusion 1x 
daily 
micafungin (150 mg), 
1-hr IV infusion 1x 
daily 
caspofungin (50 mg) 
or 1 hr 
IV infusion 
micafungin 
(300 mg) every second 
day 
1-hr infusion 1x daily 
micafungin: 50 
mg/day 
(1 mg/kg/day <50 kg);  
fluconazole: 400 
mg/day 
(8 mg/kg/day <50 kg) 
Micafungin 
150 mg 
151 
300 mg 
149 
Caspofungin 
152 
micafungin 
425 
fluconazole 
457 
maximum 
42 days 
Patients ≥ 16 
years 
with confirmed 
oesophageal 
candidiasis 
14 days minimum 
or 7 days after 
resolution of 
clinical signs and 
symptoms 
Adult and 
paediatric 
patients 
undergoing 
hematopoietic 
stem 
cell transplant 
Treatment started 
at time transplant 
conditioning 
regimen was 
initiated or within 
48 hours postinitiation; 
treated until 
neutrophil 
recovery or up to 
5 days post 
recovery (up to 
maximum of 42 
days post 
transplant) 
•  Dose response studies 
The  study  FG-463-21-09  was  aimed  to  investigate  the  dose-response  of  micafungin  relating  to  3 
different  dose  levels  (50  mg/day,  100  mg/day  and  150  mg/day)  compared  with  200  mg/day 
fluconazole  in  HIV  positive  patients  with  confirmed  EC.  As  a  result,  the  PK  observed  in  this 
population of adult HIV patients with EC is similar to those observed in earlier studies with healthy 
adult  volunteers.  Micafungin  exhibited  linear  PK  over  the  dose  range  investigated  (50,  100  and  150 
mg/day). Steady-state was reached between Days 3 and 7. There was no accumulation of micafungin 
following repeated daily dosing for 14 or 21 days. 
Patients  who  did  not  respond  to  therapy  had  a  lower  systemic  exposure  compared  with  those  who 
responded. The non-responders had a systemic exposure similar to the 50 mg group and the responders 
a  similar  systemic  exposure  to  the 100 and  150  mg  groups,  suggesting  that  a daily  dose  of  between 
100 and 150 mg is necessary to achieve the optimal exposure associated with a therapeutic response 
against EC in this patient population.  
Thus,  a  daily  dose  of  between  100  and  150  mg  would  appear  necessary  to  achieve  the  optimal 
exposure associated with a therapeutic response in EC. 
The  study  03-7-008  was  aimed  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  daily  doses  of  intravenous 
micafungin  versus  intravenous  caspofungin  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  EC.  The  patients 
received  micafungin  (at  a  dose  of  either  150  mg/day  or  300  mg  every  other  day  alternating  with 
placebo  [qod])  or  caspofungin  (50  mg/day).  Study  drug  was  infused  over  a  period  of  1  hour.  The 
treatment period was a minimum of 14 days or 7 days after the resolution of clinical symptoms of EC, 
whichever  was  longer.  The  maximum  duration  of  study  drug  therapy  was  28  days.  A  subgroup  of 
patients,  20  per  treatment  group,  was  to  be  selected  for  participation  in  the  PK  aspect  of  this  study. 
Samples for PK profiles were obtained from these patients over a 48-hour period starting on Days 1 
and  11.  As  a  result,  Micafungin  exhibited  linear  PK  over  the  dose  range  investigated  (150  and  300 
mg/day). Steady-state micafungin PK profiles were similar for both dosing regimens, particularly with 
regards  to  systemic  exposure  (AUC),  average  concentration  over  the  dosing  interval  (Cavg),  half-life 
(t½), and clearance (CLss). 
These studies showed that micafungin should be applied for treatment of oesophageal candidiasis in a 
dose of 150 mg/day or300 mg every other day. 
In patients who received a daily dose of 50 mg micafungin treatment was not as effective as in patients 
receiving a daily dose of 150 mg.  
24/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Main studies  
1.  Invasive candidiasis (IC) and candidaemia 
Study FG-463-21-08 
This  is  a  phase  III,  randomized,  active-controlled,  parallel  grouped  non  inferiority  study,  comparing 
micafungin  and  Ambisome®  (liposomal  amphotericin  B)  the  treatment  of  patients  with  candidaemia 
and other IC. 
Study participants  
Five hundred and thirty-one (531) patients were enrolled and randomized to micafungin (n=264, 100 
mg up to 200 mg/day) and to Ambisome (n=267, 3 mg up to 5 mg/kg/day). The patients had to have 
candidaemia  or  IC  caused  by  Candida  Albicans    or  a  non-albicans  Candida  species.  The  diagnosis 
was confirmed by fungal culture or histology, no more than 4 days prior the first planned dose of study 
drug. 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
- patients who were nursing or pregnant,; 
- patients with a known hypersensitivity to echinocandins, Ambisome® or any product containing   
amphotericin B; 
-  patients  with  evidence  of  liver  disease,  defined  by  a)  serum  glutamic  oxaloacetic  transaminase 
(SGOT)/aspartate  transaminase  (AST)  or  serum  glutamic  pyruvic  transaminase  (SGPT)/alanine 
transaminase (ALT >10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or b) total bilirubin >5 times ULN;  
- patients with a yeast or mold-like systemic fungal infection other than candidaemia or IC; 
- patients who received more than 3 days of systemic antifungal therapy within 1 week before planned 
study. 
Treatments 
Micafungin was administered at a daily dose of 100 mg for patients weighing > 40 kg (dose increase 
to 200 mg permitted) and 2.0 mg/kg for patients ≤ 40 kg (dose increase to 4.0 mg/kg). No decrease in 
the micafungin dose was allowed.  
Ambisome was administered at a daily dose of 3 mg/kg (dose increase to 5 mg/kg permitted). 
A dose decrease of 50% for Ambisome was indicated in the protocol for drug-related nephrotoxicity. 
Study drug was administered as 1-hour infusion in a blinded manner. 
The minimum duration of therapy was 14 days. The maximum treatment period was 4 weeks, except 
for patients with chronic disseminated (hepatosplenic) candidiasis, Candida osteomyelitis or Candida 
endocarditis, for whom administration of study drug could be prolonged up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 
Dosing  could  be  interrupted  for  a  maximum  of  2  days  without  withdrawal  of  the  patient  from  the 
treatment phase of the study. Investigators were instructed to interrupt therapy for significant abnormal 
liver  function  test  (LFT)  values  (increase  of  ≥  10-fold  the  upper  limit  of  normal  [ULN]  when  the 
baseline value was > 5-fold the ULN or an increase of ≥ 2-fold when the baseline value was 5- to 10-
fold  higher  than  the  ULN);  and  for  any  severe  or  life-threatening  AE  suspected  of  being  at  least 
possibly related to the study drug. 
Objectives 
The study was powered to demonstrate non-inferiority of micafungin to Ambisome in adult patients 
with a non-inferiority limit of 15%. Ambisome was chosen as an appropriate reference therapy since it 
combines the broad spectrum of conventional amphotericin B with an improved safety profile and the 
possibility of allowing appropriate blinding of the study. This choice was agreed upon by the CHMP 
earlier  during  the  scientific  advice  of  May  2002.  It  was  allowed  to  have  a  dose  increase  in  both 
treatment arms for persistence of fungal infection and this occurred in 9.8% and 6.7% of the patients 
in the micafungin and Ambisome group, respectively. 
25/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  response  rate  from  the  investigator’s  assessment  of  overall  treatment 
success,  which  was  defined  as  a  clinical  response  (complete  or  partial)  and  a  mycological  response 
(eradication or presumed eradication) at the end of treatment (EOT). 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  clinical  response,  mycological  response,  emergent  fungal 
infections, recurrence of fungal infections and the independent data review board (IDRB) assessment 
of  overall  success.  Predefined  key  safety  endpoints  were  estimated  glomerular  filtration  rate  (GFR) 
and infusion-related reactions. 
• 
Sample size 
The protocol indicated an enrolment number of 500 patients 16 years of age or older. 
Patients were recruited from around 200 centres worldwide, with each centre recruiting a maximum of 
28 patients.  
• 
Randomisation 
Randomization  was  1:1  stratified  by  centre  and  neutropenic  status.  Centres  with  only  adult  patients 
were  assigned  1  unique  block  of  sequentially  ordered  patient  numbers,  for  neutropenic  patients  and 
non-neutropenic patients. Centres with paediatric and adult patients were assigned 2 unique blocks of 
sequentially ordered patient numbers to allow stratification by neutropenic status and age group.  
• 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double-blinded. 
• 
Statistical methods 
The primary endpoint was analysed using a 1-sided 97.5% confidence interval (CI) (based on normal 
approximation)  for  the  difference  in  the  proportions  adjusted  for  neutropenia  (yes/no)  based  on  the 
PPS.  The  lower  CI  limit  exceeding  -0.15  indicates  micafungin  non-inferiority  to  Ambisome.  The 
lower  limit  of  the  CI  lying  above  -0.15  and  above  zero,  indicates  evidence  of  superiority  for 
micafungin. To this respect, a statistical test for superiority (the P value calculated based on normal 
approximation) was planned to confirm results. For a superiority interpretation, the robustness of the 
result  in  the  FAS  is  considered  to  be  essential.  To  assess  the  robustness  of  the  result  of  the  non-
inferiority test, the non-inferiority test was also conducted on the FAS and the mFAS. 
Additionally, the difference in the proportions adjusted for neutropenia (yes/no) and Apache II score 
(≤ 20 and > 20) and the corresponding 1-sided 97.5% CI and P value were calculated. 
Patient survival was analysed using Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for the treatment phase and for 
the whole study phase. The log-rank test was used to assess the difference between treatment groups 
with respect to patient survival. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow  
The planned number of adult patients for the PPS was 320, 160 per treatment group (500 planned for 
enrolment). Study Population Analysis Sets, Adult Population were as follows: 
Full analysis set  
Modified full analysis set  
Per protocol set   
Micafungin  
264  
247  
202  
26/50 
Ambisome 
267 
247 
190 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient Disposition: 
Overall 264 and 267 patients were included in the FAS for the micafungin and Ambisome groups, 
respectively. The PPS (the primary efficacy population) included 202 and 190 patients, respectively. A 
summary of discontinuations during the treatment phase (FAS) is presented in table 3. 
Table 3: Treatment Discontinuation, Adult Patients . No. Patients (%) 
ll, 5/264 (1.9%) and 6/267 (2.2%) in the micafungin and Ambisome groups, respectively,  
discontinued treatment due to lack of efficacy, 0/264 and 4/267 (1.5%) due to prohibited medication. 
Overa
Baseline data 
In  the  adult  population,  the  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  regard  to  demographic  and 
baseline characteristics.  
Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] < 500 cells/µL) was present at baseline for 12.9% and 
10.5% of patients in micafungin and Ambisome groups, respectively.  
Underlying  conditions  were  heterogeneous;  the  most  frequently  reported  categories  (≥  10%)  being 
haematological disorder (18.6% and 13.5%, respectively), solid organ tumour (13.6% and 20.2%) and 
diabetes mellitus (11.7% and 11.6%). The mean ± SD Apache II score (for patients 18 years and older) 
was  15.8  ±  8.4  for  patients  in  the  micafungin  group  (N  =  240)  and  15.6  ±  8.1  for  patients  in  the 
Ambisome group (N = 233). 
Treatment groups were well balanced with regard to type and the primary site of Candida infection.  
In  both  treatment  groups,  fluconazole  was  the  most  frequently  used  systemic  prior  antifungal  agent 
(FAS: 35.2% in the micafungin group, 41.6% in the ambisome group), followed by amphotericin B, 
voriconazole, itraconazole, caspofungin and ketoconazole.  
Concomitant non-systemic antifungal medications were received by 46/264 (17.4%) adult patients in 
the micafungin group and 45/267 (16.9%) in the Ambisome group (FAS)  
Administration  of  a  systemic  antifungal  therapy  other  than  the  study  drug  was  grounds  for 
discontinuation from the treatment phase.  
Treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  regard  to  administration  of  medications  other  than  Anti-
fungal  Therapy.  During  the  pre-treatment  phase  (the  4  weeks  preceding  the  study),  systemic 
antibiotics were received by 97.0% and 97.4% of patients in the micafungin and Ambisome groups, 
respectively; systemic corticosteroids by 37.1% and 36.7% of patients, respectively; and antineoplastic 
and immunomodulating agents by 17.8% and 16.1% of patients, respectively (FAS). Administration of 
these special interest medications remained high during the treatment phase of the study. 
27/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 4: Overall Treatment Success in the Per Protocol Set,  FG-463-21-08 
Micafungin 
Liposomal 
Amphotericin B 
% Difference 
[95% CI]  
N 
n (%) 
N 
n (%) 
Adult Patients 
Overall Treatment Success 
Overall Treatment Success by Neutropenic Status 
202 
181 (89.6) 
190 
170 (89.5) 
0.1 [-5.9, 6.1] † 
Neutropenia at baseline 
No neutropenia at baseline 
24 
178 
18 (75.0) 
163 (91.6) 
15 
175 
12 (80.0) 
158 (90.3) 
0.7 [-5.3, 6.7] ‡ 
Paediatric Patients 
Overall Treatment Success 
< 2 years old 
Premature Infants 
Neonates (0 days to < 4 
weeks) 
2 to 15 years old 
48 
26 
10 
7 
22 
35 (72.9) 
21 (80.8) 
7 (70.0) 
7 (100) 
14 (63.6) 
50 
31 
9 
5 
19 
38 (76.0) 
24 (77.4) 
6 (66.7) 
4 (80%) 
14 (73.7) 
-2.7% [-17.3, 11.9] § 
Adults and Children Combined, Overall Treatment Success by Candida Species  
Candida albicans 
Non-albicans species ¶: all 
102 
151 
59 
48 
23 
9 
91 (89.2) 
133 (88.1) 
54 (91.5) 
41 (85.4) 
19 (82.6) 
8 (88.9) 
98 
140 
51 
44 
17 
7 
89 (90.8) 
123 (87.9) 
49 (96.1) 
35 (79.5) 
14 (82.4) 
6 (85.7) 
C. tropicalis 
  C. parapsilosis 
  C. glabrata 
  C. krusei 
For the paediatric patients, the descriptive results are presented on the full analysis set. 
† Micafungin rate minus the liposomal amphotericin B rate, and 2-sided 95% confidence interval for 
the difference in overall success rate based on large sample normal approximation. 
‡ Adjusted for neutropenic status; primary endpoint. 
§ The paediatric population was not sized to test for non-inferiority. 
¶ Clinical efficacy was also observed (< 5 patients) in the following Candida species: C. guilliermondii, 
C. famata, C. lusitaniae, C. utilis, C. inconspicua and C. dubliniensis. 
Treatment success (PPS) for micafungin was 89.6% (181/202), Ambisome 89.5% (170/190). Mortality 
was similar in the micafungin group (3/21, 14.3%) compared with the Ambisome group (7/24, 29.2%). 
Consistent results of non-inferiority were seen for the full analysis set (overall response rates of 71.6% 
versus  68.2%)  and  the  modified  full  analysis  set  (overall  treatment  success  of  74.1%  and  69.6%) 
where the overall success rates were lower than in the per protocol set as could be expected. Treatment 
success was also stratified by neutropenic status and was lower in patients who were neutropenic than 
in those who were not (75% and 80% for neutropenic versus 91.6% and 90.3% for non-neutropenic 
patients in the micafungin and Ambisome group, respectively, PPS). Nevertheless, the lower bound of 
the 97.5%CI adjusted for neutropenic status at the baseline [-5.3%, 100%] was above the pre-defined 
non-inferiority margin of -15%. Although the absolute number of neutropenic patients remains limited 
(34 patients in the micafungin and 28 patients in the Ambisome group, FAS) it would be very difficult 
to  include  more  patients  since  the  risk  to  develop  an  IC  in  neutropenic  patients  has  decreased 
significantly during the last decade as a result of antifungal prophylaxis.  
Stratification by Apache II score revealed similar success rates, although patients with an Apache II 
score of >20 treated with micafungin showed lower success rates than those treated with Ambisome 
(79.5%  versus  89%  in  the  PPS).  Success  rates  were  somewhat  higher  for  candidaemia  than  IC,  but 
there  were  no  treatment  differences.  In  patients  with  candidaemia,  baseline  catheter  status  had  no 
apparent  influence  on  the  overall  success  rate.  In  addition,  overall  treatment  success  was  similar 
whether  candidaemia  patients  had  their  catheter  removed  or  replaced  or  not.  Both  micafungin  and 
Ambisome  were  effective  in  treating  systemic  infections  caused  by  C.  albicans  (88.4%  and  89.3%, 
respectively) and non-C. albicans species (89.7% and 89.3%). 
An  independent  data  review  board  also  did  assessment  of  overall  success.  Findings  from  this  IDRB 
analysis  were  considered  descriptive  but  were  consistent  with  a  non-inferiority  interpretation.  Their 
assessment can be considered as more stringent since treatment success was consistently lower when 
28/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessed  by  the  IDRB  as  compared  to  the  investigators.  For  instance,  in  the  IDRB  PPS,  treatment 
success  was  experienced  by  81.4%  and  80.4%  of patients  in  the  micafungin and  Ambisome  groups, 
respectively,  which  is  approximately  a  10%  lower  response  rate  than  in  the  primary  analysis  as 
assessed by the investigators. There was also a discrepancy between the number of proven emergent 
and  proven  recurrent  fungal  infections  in  the  micafungin  group  when  assessed  by  the  IDRB  or  the 
investigators.  The  microbiological  documentation  of  the  Candida  isolates  was  properly  done  with 
strict criteria used for confirmation of IC. The response rates by Candida species were similar for both 
micafungin and Ambisome with no apparent differences between both treatments, taking into account 
that for the more rare species the data were too limited to draw any robust conclusion. There was no 
evidence  of  resistance  development  against  micafungin.  Unfortunately,  the  data  did  not  allow  for 
establishment of breakpoint MIC determinations for the treatment of IC. 
Ancillary analysis 
Paediatric population 
• 
Results  for  children  were  presented  separately  in  a  paediatric  substudy,  and  were  considered  solely 
supportive and descriptive. 52 patients in the Micafungin and 54 patients in the Ambisome group have 
been included in the FAS (41 and 42, respectively in the PP set). 
All  age  groups  were  well  represented  in  both  treatment  arms  (infants  0  to  4  weeks  old:  15.4%  and 
16.7% of patients in the micafungin and Ambisome groups, respectively; infants 4 weeks to < 2 years 
old:  38.5%  and  44.4%  of  patients,  respectively;  children  2  to  11  years  old:  32.7%  and  33.3%  of 
patients, respectively; and children 12 to 15 years old: 13.5% and 5.6% of patients, respectively).  
Although  demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  between  treatment  groups,  a 
significantly higher percentage of paediatric patients was neutropenic in the Ambisome group (13/54; 
24.1%) as compared to the micafungin group (only 7/52; 13.5%). Almost all children included in this 
substudy had candidaemia. A higher proportion of children needed a dose increase (21.2% and 22.2% 
in the micafungin and Ambisome group) as compared to adults, which might be related to the higher 
clearance  seen  in  young  children  in  comparison  to  adult  patients  (please  see  the  pharmacokinetic 
section).  
The  rates  of  treatment  success  were  high  in  both  groups:  an  overall  success  rate  of  69.2%  in  the 
micafungin arm was shown as compared to 74.1% in the Ambisome arm (FAS) (85.4% versus 88% 
treatment success, respectively in the PPS).   
2.  Oesophageal candidiasis (EC) 
Study 03-7-005: 
This  is  a  phase  III,  randomized,  active  controlled,  multicentre,  multinational,  double-blind,  parallel 
group,  non-inferiority  study  comparing  micafungin  versus  fluconazole  for  the  treatment  of 
oesophageal candidiasis (OE). 
Study participants 
Five hundred and eighteen patients (518) were enrolled and randomized (1:1) to micafungin (n=260, 
150  mg/day) and  fluconazole  (n=258,  200  mg/day). Patients  received  at  least  a  single  dose  of  study 
drug (full analysis set [FAS] = safety set = primary analysis set for efficacy analysis). 
Patients ≥ 16 years old with a confirmed diagnosis of EC were eligible for enrolment. For a confirmed 
diagnosis of EC, the patient had to have a mucosal grade > 0; a positive histology or both a positive 
cytology and a positive Candida fungal culture; and 1 or more clinical symptoms of EC (dysphagia, 
odynophagia  or  retrosternal  pain).  Treatment  was  completed  by  232/260  (89.2%)  patients  in 
micafungin group and by 234/258 (90.7%) patients in the fluconazole group. 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
-   Pregnancy or lactation. Females of childbearing potential were to avoid becoming pregnant while 
receiving study drug  
-  History of anaphylaxis attributed to azole compounds or the echinocandin class of antifungals. 
-  Evidence  of 
liver  disease,  as  defined  by  a)  aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST),  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) or alkaline phosphatase >10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or b) 
total bilirubin >5 times ULN. 
29/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-   Presence  of  another  active  opportunistic  fungal  infection  and/or receiving  acute  systemic  therapy 
for an opportunistic fungal infection. 
-   Concomitant oesophagitis caused by herpes simplex virus or cytomegalovirus. 
-   Receipt  of  an  oral,  non-absorbable  (topical)  antifungal  agent  within  48  hours  or  a  systemic 
antifungal agent within 72 hours prior to the first dose of study drug. 
Treatments 
The study consisted of two treatment arms: micafungin 150 mg or fluconazole 200 mg administered 
intravenously  once  daily  for  a  minimum  of  14  days  or  for  7  days  after  resolution  of  all  clinical 
symptoms of the oesophageal candidiasis. The maximum allowed length of study drug administration 
was 42 days. 
Dose  adjustments  based  on  the  intensity  of  the  adverse  event  were  allowed  at  the  discretion  of  the 
investigator  if  the  patient  experienced  a  toxicity  considered  to  be  related  to  the  study  drug.  The 
National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) were provided for use as a guideline.  
Objectives 
The objective of the study was to determine the efficacy and safety of intravenous micafungin versus 
intravenous fluconazole in the treatment of patients with oesophageal candidiasis. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint 
The  primary  endpoint  was  treatment  success  (i.e.,  endoscopic  cure  rate),  which  was  defined  as  a 
mucosal grade of 0 (zero) at the end of therapy. 
Secondary Endpoints 
The secondary endpoints were as follows: 
•   Clinical response at the end of therapy, with success defined as cleared or improved 
•   Mucosal response at the end of therapy, with success defined as cleared or improved 
•   Overall therapeutic response at the end of therapy 
•   Incidence of relapse at 2 weeks and 4 weeks posttreatment 
•   Changes  in  the  endoscopic  assessment  of  oesophageal  candidiasis  (mucosal  grade)  at  the  end  of 
therapy compared to baseline 
•   Changes  in  clinical  symptoms  of  oesophageal  candidiasis  at  the  end  of  therapy  compared  to 
baseline 
•   Changes  in  clinical  signs  and  symptoms  of  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  at  the  end  of  therapy 
compared to baseline 
• 
Sample size 
230  enrolled  patients  were  planned  in  order  to  ensure  that  at  least  201  treated  patients  would  have 
confirmed oesophageal candidiasis at baseline. This was based on the results of Study FG-463-21-09, 
in  which  approximately  11%  of  the  patients  did  not  receive  study  drug  or  had  non-confirmatory 
endoscopic results at baseline.  
• 
Randomisation 
Patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  micafungin  or  fluconazole  using  a  1:1  randomization 
schedule generated by the Research Data Operations Department at FHI. 
• 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double blinded. 
30/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
• 
Unless otherwise indicated, all statistical analyses were to be performed using two-sided tests with a 
significance level of alpha=0.05. For the purpose of stratified or subset analyses, centers enrolling 10 
or fewer patients were pooled together by country. 
Primary Endpoint: A two-sided 95% confidence interval (95% CI) was constructed for the difference 
in the success rates of micafungin and fluconazole (micafungin minus fluconazole) using the normal 
approximation method. If the lower bound of the 95% CI exceeded -0.10, then micafungin would be 
considered non-inferior to fluconazole. If the lower bound of the 95% CI exceeded 0, then micafungin 
would be considered superior to fluconazole.  
Secondary  Endpoint:  The  primary  analysis  used  for  endoscopic  cure  rate  was  repeated  for  clinical 
response  (cleared  or  improved),  mucosal  response  (cleared  or  improved),  and  overall  therapeutic 
response. The 95% CI was used to evaluate non-inferiority.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow  
A total of 776 patients were screened in order to obtain the 523 patients who were randomized into the 
study.  The  primary  reasons  for  failure  to  enroll  253  screened  patients  were  lack  of  confirmation  of 
oesophageal  candidiasis  based  on  endoscopy  and  clinical  symptoms  and  concomitant  medical 
conditions  that  might  have  resulted  in  an  unacceptable  additional  risk  if  subjects  had  been  enrolled. 
Criteria  for  diagnosis  of  EC  were  correctly  defined,  based  on  endoscopy,  histology  or  culture  and 
clinical symptoms.  
The patients disposition was the following: 
All randomized patients  
Full analysis set  
Modified full analysis set  
Per protocol set   
Micafungin  
265 (100%) 
260  
220  
189  
Fluconazole 
258 (100%) 
258 
215 
192 
The  treatment  consisted  in  a  minimum  of  14  days  or  for  7  days  after  resolution  of  all  clinical 
symptoms of EC (maximum 42 days). The post-treatment follow-up period was 4 weeks. 
The reasons for treatment discontinuation are summarized in Table 5. 
31/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Reasons for Treatment Discontinuation 
Baseline data 
The treatment groups were well balanced with regard to demographic and baseline characteristics, and 
distribution of the different Candida species was comparable in both groups. 
The  main  underlying  condition  was  HIV  486/518  (93.8%)  in  both  treatment  arms.  Among  them, 
approximately 60% had CD4 cell counts of <100/ml, and of which only 8.5% in the micafungin group 
and  11.6%  in  the  fluconazole  group  received  antiretroviral  therapy.  The  remaining  32  patients  had 
other underlying conditions of immunosupression of which malignancy was the most frequent one in 
both groups. A majority of patients in both treatment groups (>86%) did not have a prior history of 
oesophageal  candidiasis.  As  could  be  expected,  most  patients  (>88%)  presenting  with  EC  also  had 
oropharyngeal candidiasis.  
Approximately 10% of patients in each treatment group had negative culture results. Among patients 
with positive culture results, C. albicans was the predominant fungal organism at baseline (98.3 %). 
Concomitant  use  of  non-systemic  antifungal  medications  was  noted  for  1/260  (0.4%)  micafungin 
patient and 3/258 (1.2%) fluconazole patients. 
Few patients in either treatment group had a history of receiving antifungal therapy, fluconazole being 
the most frequently reported prior therapy. Systemic antifungal medications were administered to only 
4.2%  of  micafungin  patients  and  2.7%  of  fluconazole  patients.  Similarly,  non-systemic  antifungal 
medications were administered to 3.8% of micafungin patients and 6.2% of fluconazole patients. 
The classes of non-antifungal medications that were commonly administered concomitant with study 
drug  included  drugs  for  functional  gastrointestinal  disorders,  vitamins,  systemic  antibacterials, 
antimycobacterials, 
analgesics, 
antipruritics, 
psycholeptics, and antihistamines. 
At  all  times,  antiviral  medications  were  not  commonly  administered  to  patients  in  either  treatment 
group. 
antirheumatic  drugs, 
anti-inflammatory 
and 
Outcomes and estimation 
The study was completed by 232/260 (89.2%) patients in micafungin group and by 234/258 (90.7%) 
patients in the fluconazole group.  
32/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Outcomes of study 03-07-005 
The primary endpoint was treatment success (endoscopic cure), which was defined as an oesophageal 
mucosal grade of 0 at EOT. 
Endoscopic cure at EOT (the primary endpoint) was experienced by 228/260 (87.7%) patients in the 
micafungin  group  and  227/258  (88.0%)  patients  in  the  fluconazole  group  (95%  CI  for  difference:  [-
5.9%, 5.3%]) FAS (the primary population for efficacy and safety analyses). 
Micafungin  can  be  considered  as  effective  as  fluconazole  in  the  treatment  of  invasive  candidiasis, 
because the lower limit of the 95% CI is above the predefined non-inferiority margin of -10%. Non-
inferiority was confirmed for the mFAS (patients who received at least a single dose of study drug and 
had positive histology or cytology at baseline) and the PPS (patients who received at least 10 doses of 
study drug, had confirmed EC at baseline, had a baseline and EOT endoscopy performed and did not 
have major protocol violations). 
Findings for secondary efficacy endpoints at EOT were consistent with the primary endpoint. Success 
rates of 94.2% and 94.6% for the micafungin and fluconazole group, respectively, were observed for 
clinical  response;  87.3%  and  87.2%,  respectively  for  overall  therapeutic  response;  and  68.8%  and 
73.3%, respectively, for mycological response.  
The rate of relapse for patients who had experienced overall therapeutic success at EOT was low for 
both  treatment  groups,  with  15.2%  (30/198)  and  11.3%  (22/195)  patients  in  the  micafungin  and 
fluconazole groups, respectively, having experienced relapse during the 4-week post-treatment period 
(P = 0.257, CMH χ2 test controlling for pooled centre). 
Study 03-7-008 
This  is  a  phase  III,  randomized,  multicentre,  multinational,  double-blind,  parallel  group,  non-
inferiority  study  comparing  micafungin  versus  caspofungin  for  the  treatment  of  oesophageal 
candidiasis (OE). 
Study Participants  
Patients  ≥ 16 years old with a confirmed diagnosis of EC, within 5 days prior to first dose of study 
drug were eligible for enrolment. For a confirmed diagnosis of EC, the patient had to have a mucosal 
grade > 0; a positive histology or both a positive cytology and a positive Candida fungal culture; and 
33/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at  least  1  clinical  symptom  of  EC  (dysphagia,  odynophagia  or  retrosternal  pain).  A  total  of  450 
patients were planned. In total, 452 patients received at least 1 dose of study drug (FAS = safety set = 
primary analysis set for efficacy analysis). The study was completed by 126/149 (84.6%) patients in 
micafungin 300 mg qod group, 136/151 (90.1%) patients in the micafungin 150 mg/day group and by 
134/152 (88.2%) patients in the caspofungin group.  
Main exclusion criteria were: (i)  patient pregnant or nursing; (ii) patient had evidence of liver disease; 
(iii) patient had an opportunistic infection other than oesophageal candidiasis; (iv) patient received an 
oral, non-absorbable (topical) antifungal agent.  
Treatments 
Patients received micafungin (at a dose of either 150 mg/day or 300 mg every other day alternating 
with placebo [qod]) or caspofungin (50 mg/day). Study drug was infused over a period of 1 hour. The 
treatment period was a minimum of 14 days or 7 days after the resolution of clinical symptoms of EC. 
The  primary  comparison  for  assessment  of  non-inferiority  was  micafungin  150  mg/day  versus 
caspofungin 50 mg/day.  
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  daily  doses  of 
intravenous micafungin versus intravenous caspofungin for the treatment of patients with oesophageal 
candidiasis. 
The  secondary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  determine  if  alternate  day  dosing  of  micafungin  is  as 
effective as daily dosing of micafungin and/or caspofungin. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was endoscopic cure (mucosal grade of 0 - no evidence of oesophageal 
candidiasis associated with plaques) at the end of therapy. The primary comparison was  micafungin 
150 mg /day versus caspofungin 50 mg/day.  
Overall therapeutic response was calculated based on the clinical symptoms and oesophageal mucosal 
grade  at  the  end  of  therapy  (EOT)  as  compared  to  baseline.  A  positive  overall  therapeutic  response 
was  defined  as  a  clinical  response  of  cleared  or  improved  and  an  endoscopic  response  of  cleared  or 
improved by at least 2 grades at the end of therapy. 
Relapse was defined as the recurrence or worsening of oesophageal candidiasis at the 2 week and/or 4 
week post-treatment visit as assessed by clinical symptoms and endoscopic evaluation for any patient 
with a cured or improved overall therapeutic response at the end of therapy. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included clinical , mucosal, mycological and oropharyngeal response at 
EOT, overall therapeutic response, incidence of relapse at 2 and 4 weeks post treatment,  changes in 
clinical  symptoms  of  oesophageal  and  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  at  EOT  compared  to  baseline, 
changes in endoscopic assessment of EC at EOT compared to baseline, changes in clinical symptoms 
of candidiasis at the end of therapy compared to baseline and time to complete resolution of clinical 
symptoms of oesophageal candidiasis. 
• 
Sample size 
A  total  of  approximately  450  patients  were  planned  for  enrolment  in  a  1:1:1  ratio  into  one  of  three 
treatment groups, resulting in 150 patients per treatment group.  
• 
Randomisation 
The study was designed to enroll oesophageal candidiasis patients on a 1:1:1 basis into one of three 
treatment arms: micafungin 150 mg qd, micafungin 300 mg qod, or caspofungin 50 mg qd. 
34/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Blinding (masking) 
Study  drug  assignment  remained  blinded  to  all  staff  members  with  the  exception  of  the  hospital 
pharmacist or designee. 
• 
Statistical methods 
To assess the robustness of the primary analysis results, the primary analysis was repeated using the 
modified full analysis set and the per protocol set. For the primary comparison of micafungin 150 mg 
qd  versus  caspofungin  50  mg  qd,  treatment  success  was  also  analyzed  using  the  Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel (CMH) test adjusted for study site. The Breslow-Day test was used to assess the consistency 
of the results across study sites.  
An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) test, with baseline value as a covariate, was performed on the 
following secondary efficacy endpoints:(i) changes in endoscopic assessment of EC at EOT compared 
to baseline, (ii) changes in clinical symptoms of EC at EOT compared to baseline, and (iii) changes in 
clinical  symptoms  of  oropharyngeal  candidiasis  at  EOT  compared  to  baseline  (for  patients  with 
oropharyngeal candidiasis at baseline). 
Results  
• 
Participant flow  
Table 7: Summary of patient population and disposition 
Most of the protocol deviations noted in this study were minor and did not affect the overall results of 
the  study.  A  total  of  46/454  patients  (10.1%)  were  excluded  from  the  per  protocol  set  due  to  major 
protocol deviations and/or not fulfilling the criteria for the per protocol set.  
Baseline data 
There were no statistically significant differences in demographics across treatment groups for patients 
included in the full analysis set. The vast majority of patients in the full analysis set (> 90%) had HIV 
as  their  primary  underlying  disease  and,  of  patients  with  HIV,  >  60%  had  CD4  counts  of  <  100 
35/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cells/mcl. Furthermore, the proportion of patients using concomitant anti-retroviral medication(s) was 
similar across the three treatment groups (< 10% patients/treatment group). 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  among 
terms  of 
oesophageal/oropharyngeal  candidiasis  characteristics  at  baseline.  Over  85%  of  the  patients  in  each 
treatment group were being treated for oesophageal candidiasis for the first time. More than 90% of 
patients in each treatment group received study drug therapy from 10 to 20 days. Consistent with the 
study design, mean and median treatment durations for each treatment group were approximately 14 
days.  Baseline  fungal  cultures  were  positive  for  approximately  95%  of  randomized  patients,  with 
Candida albicans being the most commonly isolated fungal organism. 
treatment  groups 
in 
The  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to  oesophageal/oropharyngeal  candidiasis 
characteristics  
Outcomes and estimation 
The primary efficacy endpoint was endoscopic cure (success) at EOT. Using the FAS, a 95% 2-sided 
CI  was  constructed  for  the  difference  in  success  rates  between  micafungin  150  mg/day  and 
caspofungin 50 mg/day using normal approximation. If the lower bound of the CI was greater than -
0.15, the micafungin 150 mg/day would be considered non-inferior to caspofungin 50 mg/day. In total, 
452 patients received at least a single dose of study drug (FAS, the primary population for efficacy and 
safety analyses). The study was completed by 126/149 (84.6%) patients in the micafungin 300 mg qod 
group, 136/151 (90.1%) patients in the micafungin 150 mg/day group and by 134/152 (88.2%) patients 
in the caspofungin group. 
Table 8: Summary of treatment success (mucosal grade = 0) at the EOT  
Analysis 
Set 
FAS 
mFAS 
PPS 
Outcome 
Success 
Failure 
Success 
Failure 
Success 
Failure 
Micafungin 
150 mg/day 
Caspofungin 
50 mg/day 
139 
(92.1%)
12            (7.9%)
139 
(91.4%)
13            (8.6%)
138        (92.6%) 
11            (7.4%)
139        (91.4%) 
13            (8.6%)
136        (98.6%) 
2              (1.4%)
133        (96.4%) 
5              (3.6%)
Treatment 
Difference† 
0.6% 
95% CI 
for Difference‡ 
(-5.6%, 6.8%) 
1.2% 
(-4.9%, 7.3%) 
2.2% 
(-1.5%, 5.9%) 
Patient  base:    Full  analysis  set  (FAS):  all  randomised  patients  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  drug:  Modified  full 
analysis set (mFAS): all randomized patients who received at least one dose of study drug and had a positive histology or 
cytology result at the baseline. Per protocol set (PPS): all randomized patients who received at least 10 doses of study drug, 
had confirmed EC at the baseline, had baseline and EOT endoscopies performed, and did not have major protocol deviations.  
† Treatment difference: micafungin 150 mg/day minus caspofungin 50 mg/day. 
‡ 95% confidence interval for the difference in success based on large sample normal approximation. 
Success: Mucosal grade = 0; Failure: Mucosal grade > 0; Not evaluable: No end-of-therapy endoscopy performed or samples 
were not obtained from end-of-therapy endoscopy. CI:  Confidence interval. 
The  FAS  had  a  median  and  mean  duration  of  study  drug  exposure  of  14  days  for  all  3 treatment 
groups.  Cure  (success,  mucosal  grade  =  0)  at  EOT  was  experienced  endoscopically  by 
92.1% (139/151)  patients  in  the  micafungin  150/day  group  and  91.4%  (139/152)  of  patients  in  the 
caspofungin group. The treatment difference between the micafungin 150 mg/day and caspofungin 50 
mg/day treatment groups was 0.6%, with a 95% CI of [-5.6%, 6.8%]. 
Basing  on  the  pre-defined  non-inferiority  limit  of  15%  (FAS),  these  data  indicate  micafungin  150 
mg/day  was  as  effective  as  caspofungin  50 mg/day.  Non-inferiority  was  confirmed  for  the  mFAS 
(patients who received at least a single dose of study drug and had positive histology or cytology at 
baseline)  and  the  PPS  (patients  who  received  at  least  10  doses  of  study  drug,  had  confirmed  EC  at 
baseline, had a baseline and EOT endoscopy performed and did not have major protocol violations). 
36/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The micafungin 300 mg qod group showed similar results, with a success rate of 141 (94.6%) patients. 
The  treatment  difference  was  2.6%  (95%  CI:  [-3.1%,  8.2%])  for  micafungin  300  mg  qod  minus 
micafungin  150  mg/day;  and  3.2%  (95% CI: [-2.5%, 8.9%])  for  micafungin  300  mg  qod  minus 
caspofungin 50 mg/day.  
Mycological  eradication  was  observed  for  124/149  (83.2%),  120/151  (79.5%)  and  119/152  (78.3%) 
patients  in  the  in  micafungin  300 mg  qod  group,  micafungin  150 mg/day  group  and  caspofungin 
group.  
The relapse rate through the 4-week follow-up for patients who had overall therapeutic success at EOT 
(excluding  missing  values)  was  22/129  (17.1%)  for  the  micafungin  150  mg/day  group  and  27/129 
(20.9%) for the caspofungin group (difference for micafungin minus caspofungin: -3.9%; 95% CI for 
difference: [-13.4%, 5.7%]). In the micafungin 300 mg/every other day group, 19/128 (14.8%) patients 
experienced relapse through the 4-week follow-up period 
3.  Prophylaxis indication 
Study 98-0-050 
This  was  a  phase  III,  randomised  (1:1),  comparative  trial  of  micafungin  versus  fluconazole  for 
prophylaxis  of  fungal  infections  in  patients  undergoing  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation 
(HSTC). 
Study participants  
Adult and paediatric patients (≥6 months old) scheduled to undergo an autologous or syngeneic (for 
haematologic  malignancies)  or  allogeneic  HSCT  were  considered  for  study  entry.  The  number  of 
patients planned for inclusion was 800 (400 in each treatment arm). Patients were collected from 72 
sites in the USA and Canada. 
Treatments 
Patients received either micafungin, 50 mg per day (1 mg/kg per day for patients weighing <50 kg), or 
fluconazole 400 mg/day (8 mg/kg/day for patients weighing <50 kg), once daily as a 1-hour infusion. 
Randomized treatment was initiated at the time the transplant-conditioning regimen was initiated or 
within 48 hours post-initiation. Treatment was to continue until one of following occurred:  the patient 
experienced  neutrophil  recovery  to  a  post  nadir  ANC  of  ≥500  cells/mm3  (study  drug  could  be 
continued  for  up  to  5  days  post-neutrophil  recovery  at  the  investigator’s  discretion);  the  patient 
developed  a  proven,  probable,  or  suspected  fungal  infection;  the  patient  developed  unacceptable 
toxicity;  
Objectives 
The  study  was  aimed  to  demonstrate  non  inferiority  of  micafungin  to  fluconazole  in  preventing 
invasive fungal infection in patients undergoing a haematopoietic stem cell transplant. 
Outcomes/endpoints  
The primary efficacy endpoint was treatment success, defined as the absence of a proven, probable, or 
suspected  systemic  fungal  infection  through  the  end  of  therapy,  and  the  absence  of  a  proven  or 
probable systemic fungal infection through the end of the 4-week posttreatment period. 
• 
Sample size 
Based  on  prior  multicenter,  randomized  prophylactic  trials  with  fluconazole  in  adult  bone  marrow 
transplant patients, the rate of treatment success for fluconazole was estimated to be 40%. Therefore, 
400 patients per treatment group would provide at least 80% power at a one-sided 2.5% significance 
level to demonstrate that mycamine is not inferior to fluconazole over a difference of 10%. 
37/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Randomisation 
The study was randomised 1:1 and stratified by centre, age, type of transplant and risk for transplant-
related mortality 
• 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was double-blinded. 
• 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis focused on the efficacy of micafungin and fluconazole based upon the primary 
endpoint, treatment success at the end of the study. The rates of treatment success were calculated as 
the ratio of the total number of treatment successes to the total number of patients treated across all 
centers  and  strata  (age  group  and  transplant  type).    A  2-sided  95%  confidence  interval  (CI)  for  the 
difference in the true success rates was constructed using a large sample normal approximation of the 
binomial distribution. Mycamine was considered not statistically inferior to fluconazole if the lower 
confidence bound was ≥ -10%, and statistically superior if the lower confidence bound was >0%.   
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
• 
Study population 
Table 9: Summary of patient population and disposition 
Data set 
     All Randomized 
Patients 
     Full Analysis Set 
     Per Protocol Set 
Final disposition 
     Completed Study 
     Death 
     Lost to Follow-Up 
     Other 
FK463  
426 
425 (99.8%) 
397 (93.2%) 
402 (94.4%) 
18 (4.2%) 
5 (1.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
Fluconazole 
463 
457 (98.7%) 
433 (93.5%) 
428 (92.4%) 
27 (5.8%) 
3 (0.6%) 
5 (1.1%) 
Patient base: all randomized patients irrespective of whether study drug was administered (all randomized 
patients); all patients who received at least 1 dose of study drug (full analysis set); patients who received at 
least 1 dose of study drug and who were deemed evaluable following patient classification (per protocol 
set). 
A total of 1267 patients were screened from 70 sites in the USA and Canada (2 sites were initiated but 
never enrolled patients), and 889 were randomized into the study (426 micafungin, 463 fluconazole).   
One micafungin patient and six fluconazole patients were randomized but never received study drug 
and were excluded from the full analysis set.   
A total of 28/425 (6.6%) micafungin and 24/457 (5.3%) fluconazole full analysis set patients did not 
meet the classification criteria and were not included in the per protocol set.  A patient could have had 
more than one reason for exclusion.  The 2 main reasons for exclusion were an absolute neutrophil 
count  which  was  never  below  200  cells/mm3,  and  the  use  of  systemic  antifungal  therapy  prior  to 
enrolment. 
38/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  included  84/882  (9.5%)  paediatric  patients  (<16  years  of  age)  and  56/882  (6.3%)  elderly 
patients (≥65 years of age). 
Baseline data 
The micafungin (N = 425) and fluconazole (N = 457) treatment groups were well balanced in terms of 
gender, race, age and weight as well as status of underlying disease, type of transplant received and 
risk of transplant related mortality. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 10: Efficacy findings for the primary endpoint, study 98-0-050 
Overall 
Micafungin (N=425)  Fluconazole (N=457)  Treatment Difference † 
340 (80.0%) 
336 (73.5%) 
Allogeneic HSCT 
157/220 (71.4%) 
175/256 (68.4%) 
Autologous HSCT 
181/203 (89.2%) 
161/201 (80.1%) 
+6.5% 
95% CI: [0.9%, 12%] 
+ 3.0%;  
95% CI: [-5.3%, 11.3%] 
+ 9.1%;  
95% CI: [2.1%, 16.0%] 
N/A 
2/2 (100%) 
No HSCT 
Patient base (full analysis set): all patients who received at least a single dose of study drug. 
Treatment  success:  absence  of  proven,  probable,  or  suspected  systemic  fungal  infection  through  the  end  of  therapy  and 
absence of proven or probable systemic fungal infection through the end of study. † Micafungin rate minus the fluconazole 
rate; CI: confidence interval; N/A: not applicable; HSCT: haematopoietic stem cell transplant. 
0 
In adult patients, the mean duration of therapy was similar between the two treatment arms and the 
median duration was 18 days in both arms. 
In the full analysis set, the overall success rate for micafungin was significantly higher than the rate for 
fluconazole  patients  (80.0%  versus  73.5%).    The  treatment  difference  was  +6.5%  (95%  CI:    0.9%, 
12.0%).  The Kaplan-Meier estimate of treatment success was significantly different between the two 
treatment  arms  (p=0.025).    This  treatment  difference  was  consistent  in  patients  who  underwent  an 
allogeneic (+3.0%) or autologous (+9.1%) transplant.  The treatment success rates in the per protocol 
set,  which  required  an  ANC  <200  cells/mm3,  were  81.1%  (322/397)  for  micafungin  versus  74.1% 
(321/433)  for  fluconazole.  The  treatment  difference  was  +7.0%  (95%  CI:  1.3%,  12.6%).    Overall, 
treatment differences were consistent, in favour of micafungin, when data were stratified for GVHD, 
age, gender or fungal colonization. 
Table 11: Proven or Probable Fungal Infections During the Study by Organism Based on  
Protocol-Specified Diagnostic Criteria 
     Proven 
     Aspergillus species 
     Candida species 
     Fusarium species 
     Zygomyces species 
     Probable 
     Aspergillus species 
FK463 (n=425) 
6 (1.4%) 
Fluconazole (n=457) 
8 (1.8%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (0.9%) 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
1 (0.2%) 
4 (0.9%) 
2 (0.4%) 
2 (0.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (0.7%) 
3 (0.7%) 
Patient base: all randomized patients who received at least 1 dose of study drug (full analysis set). 
Proven: includes biopsy-proven (with or without culture) invasive or disseminated fungal infection 
Probable: includes patients with the characteristic clinical or radiologic (chest x-ray, CT scan, other) picture 
of pulmonary aspergillosis plus a positive BAL specimen. 
39/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analysis 
• 
Special Populations 
Paediatric patients 
As discussed for study FG463-21-08 the efficacy of micafungin in paediatric patients was consistent 
with that of adults. 
A  total  of  84/882  (9.5%)  patients  who  received  micafungin  in  the  pivotal  study  98-0-050  were 
paediatric  patients.  All  but  four  of  these  patients  (2  in  each  treatment  arm)  underwent  an  allogeneic 
HSCT.  In this study micafungin was more effective than fluconazole (45/882) in preventing invasive 
fungal infections in paediatric patients (treatment success: micafungin 69.2%, fluconazole 53.3%). Of 
the  four  proven  and  probable  breakthrough  infections  in  paediatric  patients  in  this  trial,  1/39 
(zygomycosis)  occurred  in  the  micafungin  arm  and  3/45  (2  proven  aspergillosis,  1 C.  parapsilosis 
candidaemia) occurred in the fluconazole arm. 
Elderly patients 
A total of 56 of the 882 patients (6.3%) who received study drug in the pivotal study 98-0-050 were 
elderly (≥ 65 years of age). Of these 56 patients, 33 were treated with micafungin and 23 were treated 
with fluconazole. In this study micafungin was more effective than fluconazole in preventing fungal 
infections in elderly patients (treatment success: micafungin 97.0%, fluconazole 69.6%).  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
Data  from  22  phase  I  studies,  which  included  healthy  volunteers  and  study  participants  of  special 
interest,  are  included  in  this  submission.  In  total,  501  study  participants  were  exposed  to  at  least  a 
single  dose  of  micafungin  in  a  Phase  I  study.  Overall,  433  (97.7%)  completed  the  study.  Treatment 
was discontinued for 10 subjects, 6 because of an AE (5 treatment-related). 
A total of 3028 patients (patients who received at least a single dose of micafungin) were included in 
the updated safety database. Among them, 2732 were adults (2345: 16 to 64 years of age; 387: ≥ 65 
years of age) and 296 were children (< 16 years of age). 
The mean ± SD age of patients was 39.6 ± 18.0 years; 265 (10.2%) patients were < 16 years old and 
251 (9.7%) patients were ≥ 65 years old. The majority of patients (55.8%) were male. Race comprised 
54.9% Caucasian, 28.5% black, 3.7% oriental, and 12.9% were of another race. 
This population of patients had very morbid and often life-threatening conditions. Transplantation was 
a common underlying condition (774 [29.8%] patients overall – 448 [17.3%]  allogeneic HSCT; 286 
[11.0%]  autologous  HSCT  and  37  [1.4%]  solid  organ  transplant).  Non-HSCT  patients  with  a 
haematological  malignancy  accounted  for  a  further  278  (10.7%)  patients.  HIV  was  also  a  common 
underlying  condition  (990  [38.2%]  patients).  Other  conditions  were  represented  by  423  (16.3%) 
patients. Overall, 289/2595 (11.1%) patients were neutropenic (ANC < 500 cells / µL). The CD4 count 
for patients in the EC indication (most [95.9%] were HIV positive) was < 100 cells/µL for 607/1013 
(59.9%) patients, indicating that the majority of HIV patients had advanced AIDS.  
The 443 study participants in Phase I received a mean daily dose of 131.2 mg, with an overall mean of 
6.5 doses in a Phase I study. A total of 210 subjects received a fixed dose of ≥ 150 mg. One-hundred-
forty subjects received micafungin for a mean of 14 to 15 days.   
A summary of treatment duration in patient days by micafungin daily dose is provided in table 12 for 
adult and paediatric patients. 
40/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Treatment Duration by Micafungin Daily Dose, Clinical Efficacy and Safety 
Studies . No. Patients (%) 
41/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
• 
Adverse Events 
Table 13: Summary of Treatment-related Adverse Events by Maximal Micafungin Dose, Non-
elderly Adult Patients 16 to 64 Years of Age, Clinical Efficacy and Safety Studies . No. Patients 
(%) 
Safety  data  in  healthy  volunteers  (443  participants)  were  presented  separately.  The  incidence  of 
adverse  events,  irrespective  of  causality,  was  64.6%  (286/443  subjects),  of  which  the  majority  (237 
subjects) were mild in intensity, and 151 (34.1%) subjects had at least 1 event that was considered by 
the  investigator  to  be  related  to  micafungin.  There  were  no  serious  AEs,  and  treatment-related  AEs 
that  led  to  discontinuation  were  seldom  (5/443,  1.1%).  Overall,  36/443  (8.1%)  subjects  had  a 
treatment-related hepatic AE and none led to treatment discontinuation or was severe, 46/443 (10.4%) 
subjects  had  a  treatment-related  injection-site  AE  of  which  1  led  to  treatment  discontinuation  (mild 
phlebitis)  and  20/443  (4.5%)  subjects  had  a  treatment-related  allergic-like  AE  of  which  2  led  to 
treatment  discontinuation  (mild  rash;  mild  pruritus  and  erythema).  Of  note,  treatment-related 
haemoglobinuria  was  reported  in  2/443  (0.5%)  subjects,  which  were  neither  serious  nor  led  to 
treatment discontinuation. 
42/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflecting the severe morbidity of the underlying conditions represented in the patient database, most 
patients  (91.1%,  2758/3028)  experienced  one  or  more  AEs,  and  nearly  a  third  of  patients  (28.1%, 
850/3028 experienced a SAE at some time during a clinical study. The nature and incidence of AEs 
for the various patient groups were consistent with the nature and general morbidity associated with 
the underlying condition. 
The most frequently reported AEs, irrespective of causality were diarrhoea (23.5%), nausea (22.0%), 
vomiting (22.3%), pyrexia (20.4%) and mucosal inflammation (16.8%). 
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  assessed  by  the  investigator  as  having  at  least  a  possible 
relationship  to  micafungin  (≥ 1%,  MedDRA  preferred  term)  in  the  updated  clinical  database  (N  = 
3028) or in a pivotal study were the hepatic AEs AST increased  (2.3%), ALT increased (2.0%), AP 
increased  (2.7%),  LFT abnormal  (1.5%)  and  hyperbilirubinemia  (1.0%);  the  hematological  AEs 
leukopenia (1.9%), neutropenia (1.3%) and anaemia (1.0%); the electrolyte disturbances hypokalaemia 
(2.1%), hypocalcaemia (1.2%) and hypomagnesaemia (1.2%); the allergic-like /histamine-related AEs 
rash (1.9%) and rigors (1.1%); the injection-site reaction phlebitis (2.5%); as well as headache (1.8%), 
nausea  (2.8%),  vomiting  (2.5%),  diarrhoea  (2.0%),  pyrexia  (2.1%),  thrombocytopenia (0.9%), 
abdominal pain (0.9%), pruritus (0.8%), blood creatinine increased (0.7%), blood bilirubin increased 
increased  (0.6%),  hypertension  (0.6%), 
(0.6%),  blood  urea 
hypophosphataemia  (0.3%),  renal 
infusion-site 
inflammation (0.1%). 
impairment  (0.3%),  cholestasis  (0.2%)  and 
increased  (0.6%),  blood  LDH 
Hepatic AEs were common with 8.6% of patients who had a treatment-related hepatic AE, the most 
frequently  reported  being  AST  (2.7%)  and  ALT  (2.0%)  increased,  blood  AP  NOS  increased  (2.7%) 
and hyperbilirubinaemia (1.0%). There was a higher incidence of treatment-related hepatic AE in the 
micafungin  group  as  compared  to  the  Ambisome  group  in  the  comparative  IC  study  FG-463-21-08, 
whereas  the  incidence  was  similar  when  compared  to  fluconazole  or  caspofungin  in  the  other  two 
pivotal comparative studies. Few patients (1.1%; 0.5% serious) discontinued treatment due to a hepatic 
AE. 
Haematological AEs were also common, with 5.6% of patients having experienced a haematological 
AE that was suspected of being related to micafungin. The most frequently reported treatment-related 
AE  comprised  leucopenia,  neutropenia  and  anaemia.  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  the 
incidence  of  treatment-related  haematological  AEs  between  micafungin  and  any  reference  therapy 
treatment-related 
(Ambisome, 
haematological AEs that led to treatment discontinuation was low in these studies and also showed no 
treatment differences. There were 3 patients (0.1%) with a treatment-related haemolytic AE of which 2 
were serious (only one of them led to treatment discontinuation). 
fluconazole  or  caspofungin),  and 
incidence  of 
the  overall 
Electrolyte  disturbances 
such  as  hypokalaemia,  hypomagnesaemia,  hypocalcaemia,  and 
hyponatraemia  were  frequently  suspected  by  the  investigator  of  being  related  to  micafungin  (2.1%, 
1.2%, 1.2% and 0.5% of patients, respectively) but none of these events was treatment-limiting, and 
micafungin  showed  a  significant  safety  advantage  to  Ambisome  with  regard  to  the  incidence  of 
electrolyte disturbances.  
The clinical presentation of allergic-like/histamine-related AEs (5.4% of patients), is more consistent 
with histamine release than of an antibody-mediated response, the most frequently reported being rash 
and  rigors.  In  study  FG-463-21-08,  micafungin demonstrated  an  overall  lower  incidence  of  allergic-
like AEs and of rigors than Ambisome. On the other hand, at daily doses of micafungin of 150 mg and 
higher in EC/HIV patients, micafungin showed a higher overall incidence of allergic-like AEs, rigors 
and  rash  than  fluconazole  in  study  03-7-005  and  than  caspofungin  in  study  03-7-008.  These  events 
were  seldom  treatment-limiting.  Of  the  7  infusion-related  events  that  were  serious  or  led  to 
discontinuation (including the 2 described as anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions), 4 occurred during 
the first exposure with the study drug. None was life-threatening.  
Treatment-related injection-site AEs were seen in 6.5% of patients, the most common being phlebitis, 
but none was treatment-limiting. There were no significant differences in the rate of treatment-related 
injection-site  reactions  between  micafungin  and  any  reference  therapy  (Ambisome,  fluconazole  or 
43/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
caspofungin), however, there was a trend for a higher incidence for patients treated with micafungin. 
Nevertheless,  phlebitis  is  considered  not  to  warrant  a  large  consideration  in  the  assessment  of 
benefit/risk since many patients receiving micafungin will do so through centrally placed catheters or 
port-a-caths. 
Overall, 1.7% of patients experienced a treatment-related renal AE (most frequently blood creatinine 
and urea increased). In the comparative trials micafungin demonstrated a significantly lower incidence 
of  treatment-related  renal  AEs  than  Ambisome,  and  a  similar  incidence  compared  with  fluconazole 
and caspofungin. Few patients (4 patients, of whom 2 had serious events) discontinued treatment due 
to a renal AE that was suspected of being related to micafungin. Especially paediatric patients treated 
with  micafungin  experienced  more  often  than  adults  renal  adverse  drug  reactions  (3.7%  vs.  1.4% 
[acute renal failure (1.0 vs 0.1%), blood urea increased (1.7 vs 0.5%)]). 
With respect to cardiovascular AEs, in vitro studies showed that micafungin does not have a potential 
for  delayed  ventricular  repolarisation,  and  12-lead  ECG  evaluations  in  clinical  studies  showed  no 
evidence of prolongation of QT interval. Therefore, it seems that effects on ventricular repolarisation 
or QT interval are not anticipated with micafungin. 
Regarding genitourinary AEs, data from toxicity studies in animals indicate that the male genital tract 
is one of the main toxicological target sites, in particular an inhibitory effect on the spermatogenesis 
was  seen  in  dogs  and  rats.  Although  the  Applicant  claims  that    no  cases  with  sexual  dysfunction, 
fertility  disorders  and  /or  spermatogenesis  disorders  could  be  identified  from  the  clinical  or  post-
marketing  databases,  these  disorders  are  difficult  to  trace  and  can  only  be  detected  through  semen 
analyses  which  were  not  conducted.  Without  proper  results  of  these  analyses  oligospermia/aspermia 
cannot be excluded as a side effect in male patients. As stated before this is of major importance for 
children  and  young  adults  who  are  treated  with  micafungin.  An  appropriate  warning  on  testicular 
toxicity has been included in section 4.6 of SPC. Since the use of micafungin should be restricted as 
last-line  indication  at  present  no  further  studies  concerning  the  potential  risk  of  testicular  toxicity  is 
necessary.  
• 
Serious adverse events/deaths/other significant events 
A  total  of  850/3028  (28.1%)  patients  experienced  1  or  more  SAEs,  irrespective  of  causality:  25.8% 
(604/2345) in non-elderly adults, 37.5% (145/387) in elderly adults, and 34.1% (101/296) in children. 
Overall, the most frequently reported SAEs, irrespective of causality, were respiratory failure (3.1%), 
sepsis NOS (2.7%, 82/3028), multiorgan failure (1.2%), septic shock (1.7% 50/3028) and pneumonia 
(1.1%, 34/3028). 
In  the  updated  database,  a  total  of  3.5%  (107/3028)  patients  had  a  SAE  other  than  death  that  was 
suspected  of  being  related  to  micafungin.  There  was  no  trend  with  regard  to  the  incidence  by  age 
group. The SAEs included 21/3028 (0.7%) patients with a hepatic SAE of which 14 led to treatment 
discontinuation; 13/3028 (0.4%) patients with a renal SAE of which 4 led to treatment discontinuation; 
12/3028  (0.4%)  patients  with  an  allergic-like  or  infusion-related  SAE  of  which  8  led  to  treatment 
discontinuation;  and  2/3028  patients  with  a  haemolytic  SAE  of  which  1  led  to  treatment 
discontinuation.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Overall,  the  nature  and  incidence  of  AEs,  irrespective  of  causality,  were  similar  between  paediatric 
and adult patients. Exceptions were leucopenia and phlebitis where adults showed a markedly higher 
incidence  than  children,  whereas  adults  had  a  markedly  lower  incidence  than  children  for  vomiting, 
abdominal  pain  and  pruritus.  Also,  children  had  a  higher  incidence  of  thrombocytopenia  (1.7  vs. 
0.8%), hyperbilirubinaemia (2.0 vs. 0.9%), hepatomegaly (1.4 vs. 0.0%), tachycardia (1.0 vs. 0.2%), 
hypertension (2% vs. 0.4%), hypotension (1.4 vs. 0.3%), and renal adverse drug reactions (3.7% vs. 
1.4%) than adults. Additionally, in the paediatric population the frequency of increase in AST, ALT 
and  bilirubin,  each  >2.5  x  ULN  is  about  doubled  compared  to  the  adult  population.  Furthermore, 
paediatrics below 1 year of age experienced about 2x more often treatment related increase in ALT, 
44/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AST and AP compared to older paediatrics. The most likely reason for these differences were different 
underlying conditions compared with adults or older paediatric patients observed in clinical studies. 
For  treatment-related  AEs,  the  trend  for  most  selected  AEs  was  a  higher  incidence  in  adults  than 
children.  For  treatment-related  special  interest  AE  clusters,  a  higher  incidence  in  adults  than  in 
children  was  observed  for  injection-site  AEs  and  allergic-like  AEs,  which  may  be  explained  by  the 
absence of paediatric patients in the EC set, who had a higher incidence of phlebitis and rash.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In  vitro  studies  did  not  suggest  any  potential  interaction  with  micafungin.  Mycophenolate  mofetil 
(MMF),  ciclosporin,  tacrolimus,  prednisolone,  sirolimus,  nifedipine,  fluconazole,  voriconazole, 
itraconazole,  amphotericin  B,  ritonavir  (a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4)  and  rifampicin  (a  potent 
inducer of CYP3A4) were evaluated. In these studies, no interaction that altered the PK of micafungin 
was observed.  
Patients  receiving one  of  the  following drugs  should  be  monitored  for  the  respective  co-medication, 
because  increases  in  exposure  (AUC)  with  sirolimus  (total  exposure  AUC0-72  by  21%),  nifedipine 
(total exposure AUC0-inf and Cmax by 42%), amphotericin B (by 30%) and itraconazole (by 22%) in the 
presence of steady-state micafungin were observed. 
There was also no effect of single-dose or steady-state micafungin on MMF, ciclosporin, tacrolimus, 
prednisolone, fluconazole voriconazole, ritonavir or rifampicin PK. As increases in exposure (AUC) 
with sirolimus (by 15%), nifedipine (by 18%) amphotericin B (by 30%) and itraconazole (by 22%) in 
the  presence  of  steady-state  micafungin  were  small,  a  requirement  for  dose  adjustments  is  not 
anticipated. 
Micafungin  treatment  should  be  carefully  monitored  in  patients  receiving  a  concomitant  therapy 
including  hepatotoxic  and/or  genotoxic  properties,  having  chronic  liver  diseases  known  to  represent 
preneoplastic conditions (advanced liver fibrosis, cirrhosis) or in patients carrying viral infections of 
the liver with the potential of liver tumour initiating activity (HBV,HCV). 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
An  AE  led  to  treatment  discontinuation,  irrespective  of  causality,  for  a  total  of  395/3028  (13%) 
patients. The incidence of AEs that led to discontinuation was 285/2345 (12.2%) for non-elderly adult 
patients, 80/887 (20.7%) for elderly patients and 30/296 (10.1%) for paediatric patients. Overall, the 
most frequently reported AEs that led to treatment discontinuation were septic shock (0.9%, 28/3028) 
and sepsis NOS (0.8%, 24/3028). 
A total of 102/3028 (3.4%) patients had a treatment-related AE that led to treatment discontinuation: 
78/2345 (3.3%) for non-elderly adult patients, 17/887 (4.4%) for elderly patients and 7/296 (2.4%) for 
paediatric patients. 
Treatment-related SAEs that led to treatment discontinuation included 14 hepatic AEs, 4 renal AEs, 8 
allergic-like/infusion-related AEs and 1 haemolytic AE. 
Non-serious  treatment-related  AEs  that  led  to  treatment  discontinuation  comprised  18/3028  patients 
with  a  hepatic  AE,  2/3028  patients  with  a  renal  AE,  and  18/3028  patients  had  an  allergic-like  or 
infusion-related AE.  
Post marketing experience 
296,194  patients  in  Japan,  19,505  in  the  USA  and  202  patients  in  the  EU  have  been  exposed  to 
Mycamine. Most post-marketing data are available from Japan, where micafungin has been marketed 
since  4.5  years.  The  reported  adverse  events  seem  to  be  in  line  with  the  known  safety  profile  of 
micafungin to date (see SPC comments in section 4.8).  
The hepatotoxic potential of micafungin is stressed by the majority of reports received for hepatic AEs 
(ca  25%  of  all  AEs),  including  20  fatal  cases  considered  at  least  as  possibly  causal  related  to 
micafungin (1/3 of all fatal related AEs). Other AEs following in frequency belong to the SOCs ‘blood 
and  lymphatic  system  disorders’,  ‘skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders’,  ‘infections  and 
infestations’ and ‘renal and urinary disorders’. 
45/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system has deficiencies that should be addressed as 
part of the follow up measures. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Allergic-like/ 
possible histamine-
mediated AEs 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Specific standardized follow-up 
questionnaire 
Risk minimization activities 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
Haemolytic AEs 
Specific standardized follow-up 
questionnaire 
Hepatic AEs 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
Observational study  
Pharmacokinetic study in patients 
with severe hepatic dysfunction 
Renal AEs 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Observational study (paediatric 
population) 
Pancytopenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Relevance in 
humans of the 
development of liver 
tumours in rats  
Close monitoring 
Observational study 
‘Possible allergic-like symptoms’ listed as 
an ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Prescriber checklist 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC  
‘Hemolytic reactions’ listed as an ADR in 
section 4.8 of the SPC 
Prescriber checklist 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
‘Hepatic adverse reactions’ listed as an 
ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Prescriber checklist 
Nurse administration and monitoring 
guide 
Description of pre-clinical observations in 
section 5.3 of the SPC 
‘Renal and urinary disorders’ listed as an 
ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
Prescriber checklist 
Nurse administration and monitoring 
guide 
Listed as an ADR in section 4.8 of the 
SPC 
Description of pre-clinical observations in 
section 5.3 of the SPC 
Prescriber checklist 
Nurse administration and monitoring 
guide 
46/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects on the male 
reproductive tract 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Description included in section 4.6 of the 
SPC 
Development of 
resistant strains 
Routine and enhanced 
pharmacovigilance 
Section 5.1 of the SPC 
Monitor resistance development 
Propose susceptibility breakpoints 
in a microsurveillance study 
protocol 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Reproductive and 
developmental 
toxicity  
Description included in section 4.6 of the 
SPC 
Description of pre-clinical observations in 
section 5.3 of the SPC 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report  
2.6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product were investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are no 
unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Micafungin induced irreversible FAH and liver tumours in rat after treatment for 3 month and longer. 
The  mechanism  for  FAH  and  tumour  development  has  not  been  elucidated  and  a  threshold  has  not 
been shown by experimental data. Based on the NOAEL for FAH development a threshold for tumour 
development  is  assumed  to  be  at  10  mg/kg/day,  which  is  in  the  therapeutic  range.  Possibly,  the 
prevention  of  liver  injury  would  prevent  formation  of  liver  tumours,  however,  a  causal  relationship 
between  increased  liver  enzymes  and  tumour  development  could  not  been  shown.  Nevertheless, 
patients should be careful monitored for liver damage.  
In order to minimise the risk for liver tumour formation in patients treated with micafungin the SPC 
sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4 and 5.3 addresses this issue. To better evaluate the risk for the development of 
liver  tumours  in  children  the  applicant  committed  to  conduct  a  study  in  animals  comparing  juvenile 
and adult rats. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy of micafungin in adults has been demonstrated in phase III active controlled randomized 
clinical trials to be non-inferior to AmBisome in invasive candidiasis and non-inferior to fluconazole 
and caspofungin in oesophageal candidiasis. A total of n=1301 patients were treated with micafungin 
in  those  phase  III  studies.  Micafungin  was  at  least  non-inferior  to  fluconazole  in  the  prophylaxis  of 
Candida  infection  in  patients  undergoing  allogeneic  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  or 
patients  who  are  expected  to  have  neutropenia  (absolute  neutrophil  count < 500 cells / µl)  for  10  or 
more days. 
47/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In children (including neonates) and adolescents < 16 years of age the efficacy of micafungin has been 
demonstrated in phase III active controlled randomized clinical trials to be non-inferior to AmBisome 
in invasive candidiasis and at least non-inferior to Fluconazole in the prophylaxis of Candida infection 
in  patients  undergoing  allogeneic  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  or  patients  who  are 
expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
Safety 
3028  patients  have  been  treated  with  micafungin  in  clinical  studies:  2002 patients  with  Candida 
infections, 375 with invasive aspergillosis and 651 for prophylaxis of systemic fungal infections. 
Overall  32.2 %  of  the  patients  experienced  adverse  drug  reactions.  The  most  frequently  reported 
adverse reactions were nausea (2.8 %), blood alkaline phosphatase increased (2.7 %), phlebitis (2.5 %, 
primarily  in  HIV  infected  patients  with  peripheral  lines),  vomiting  (2.5 %),  and  aspartate 
aminotransferase  increased  (2.3 %).  No  clinically  significant  differences  were  seen  when  the  safety 
data were analysed by gender or race. 
The overall incidence of hepatic adverse reactions in the patients treated with micafungin in clinical 
studies  was  8.6 %  (260/3028).  The  majority  of  hepatic  adverse  reactions  were  mild  and  moderate. 
Most  frequent  reactions  were  increase  in  AP  (2.7 %),  AST  (2.3 %),  ALT  (2.0 %),  blood  bilirubin 
(1.6 %)  and  liver  function  test  abnormal  (1.5 %).  Few  patients  (1.1 %;  0.4 %  serious)  discontinued 
treatment due to a hepatic event. Cases of serious hepatic dysfunction occurred uncommonly (see SPC 
section  4.8).  Paediatric  patients  < 1 year  of  age  might  be  more  prone  to  liver  injury  (see  also  SPC 
section 4.8). There are insufficient data on the pharmacokinetics of micafungin in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (see SPC section 5.2). Micafungin may cause kidney problems, renal failure, and 
abnormal renal function test. Patients should be closely monitored for worsening of renal function. 
The  incidence  of  some  adverse  events  was  higher  in  paediatric  patients  than  in  adult  patients. 
Additionally, paediatric patients < 1 year of age experienced about two times more often an increase in 
ALT, AST and AP than older paediatric patients (see section 4.4 and 4.8). The most likely reason for 
these  differences  were  different  underlying  conditions  compared  with  adults  or  older  paediatric 
patients  observed  in  clinical  studies.  At  the  time  of  entering  the  study,  the  proportion  of  paediatric 
patients with neutropenia was several-fold higher than in adult patients (40.2 % and 7.3 % of children 
and  adults,  respectively),  as  well  as  allogeneic  HSCT  (29.4 %  and  13.4 %,  respectively)  and 
haematological malignancy (29.1 % and 8.7 %, respectively). 
In  rats,  the  development  of  foci  of  altered  hepatocytes  (FAH)  and  hepatocellular  tumours  after  a 
treatment  period  of  3 months  or  longer  were  observed.  The  assumed  threshold  for  tumour 
development in rats is approximately in the range of clinical exposure. The relevance of this finding 
for the therapeutic use in patients can not be excluded. Liver function should be carefully monitored 
during  micafungin  treatment.  To  minimise  the  risk  of  adaptive  regeneration  and  potentially 
subsequent liver tumour formation, early discontinuation in the presence of significant and persistent 
elevation  of  ALT/AST  is  recommended.  Micafungin  treatment  should  be  conducted  on  a  careful 
risk/benefit  basis,  particularly  in  patients  having  severe  liver  function  impairment  or  chronic  liver 
diseases known to represent preneoplastic conditions, such as advanced liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, viral 
hepatitis,  neonatal  liver  disease  or  congenital  enzyme  defects,  or  receiving  a  concomitant  therapy 
including hepatotoxic and/or genotoxic properties. 
To evaluate the potential risk for the development of liver tumours in patients the applicant committed 
to conduct an observational database-assisted comparative cohort study with a long follow-up period. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
48/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  User consultation 
The applicant committed to perform a user consultation as soon as a final PI has been agreed upon. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Clinical context 
During  the  last  decades  an  increase  in  fungal  infections  could  be  recognised  worldwide.  Although 
several  antifungal  agents  have  been  marketed  there  is  a  high  need  for  new  antifungal  substances 
especially  for  children,  because  more  and  more  isolates  of  fungal  species  are  reported  to  show 
resistance against these antifungal agents on the one hand and more primarily resistant fungal species 
are emerging on the other hand. 
Benefits  
Micafungin  is  a  new  antifungal  agent  of  a  relatively  new  class  of  the  echinocandins  with  broad 
antifungal  activity.  Neither  cross-resistance  with  other  antifungal  classes  nor  rapid  development  of 
resistance in fungal strains is expected. Therefore, patients suffering from infections due to resistant 
fungal  strains  (of  different  Candida  species)  could  profit  from  treatment  with  micafungin. 
Furthermore, patients receiving micafungin for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections seem to have 
a  low  risk  to  develop  a  fungal  infection  due  to  azole-resistant  fungi  (including  Candida  and 
Aspergillus).  
Micafungin also has a low potential to interact with other medications (e.g. via CYP450).  
At  present,  there  are  limited  treatment  options  for  paediatrics  with  invasive  fungal  infection.  Only 
fluconazole  is  approved  for  the  indications  as  applied  for  in  this  patient  population,  but  due  to 
resistance spectrum not effective in all cases. The 2nd azole, voriconazole, is approved for children > 2 
years of age only for candidiasis. However, all azoles reveal a high interaction potential via CYP450.  
Therefore,  a  high  number  of  patients  due  to  multimorbidity  may  be  excluded  from  azole  antifungal 
treatment.  Furthermore,  micafungin  demonstrated  fungicide  activity  against  Candida.  This  is  of 
importance especially in the immunocompromised patient populations. 
Risks  
Micafungin induced irreversible FAH and liver tumours in rat after treatment for 3 month and longer. 
The mechanism for FAH and tumour development has not been elucidated. Based on the NOAEL for 
FAH development a threshold for tumour development is at 10 mg/kg/day, which is in the therapeutic 
range.  
There were no apparent trends with regard to treatment duration for AEs, whether treatment-related or 
not. One exception are renal ADRs in the paediatric population whereas treatment related renal ADRs 
have only been observed in the long duration group (>90 days). Overall a relatively higher percentage 
of children than adults received a treatment of more than 28 days. 
The mean treatment duration in paediatric patients in clinical studies on invasive candidiasis, including 
on  prophylaxis  (32  days  in  patients  4  weeks  to  <2  years)  but  mainly  in  clinical  studies  on  invasive 
Aspergillosis was higher compared to adult patients. In clinical trials total hepatic adverse events were 
slightly  more  frequent  in  paediatric  patients  (23.6%)  than  in  non-elderly  adults  (20.6%)  or  elderly 
(16.3%).  
Important  identified  risks  are  hepatic  reactions  (elevated  liver  enzymes),  allergic-like  reactions, 
haemolytic reactions and renal AEs. An important potential risk is the risk for the development of liver 
tumours. 
49/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
There  is  no  doubt  about  the  need  for  new  antifungal agents,  including  for  the paediatric  population, 
because  of  the  development  of  fungal  resistance  as  well  as  emerging  fungal  pathogens.  Micafungin 
has  shown  to  be  effective  in  sufficient  number  of  clinical  studies  including  against  azole-resistant 
Candida strains with more than 3000 patients including 296 children. Fluconazole shows fungistatic 
activity against Candida species. Micafungin demonstrated fungicidal activity against Candida strains. 
This  is  of  importance  especially  in  the  immunocompromised  patient  populations.  Therefore, 
micafungin would be approvable as a first- line treatment option for the claimed indications in all age 
groups  if  the  risk  for  hepatocarcinogenicity  could  be  excluded.  As  this  risk  however  cannot  be 
excluded for time being, the benefit/risk ratio of all other antifungals is “superior” in “uncomplicated” 
clinical  situations  (e.g.  absence  of:  resistant  strain,  multiple  co-  medication,  renal  insufficiency).  In 
other cases micafungin might be an adequate treatment option in life threatening situations despite this 
potential risk.  
The overall B/R of mycamine is positive and can be recommended as a treatment option only when 
the use of other antifungals is not appropriate. A number of follow-up measures will be fulfilled by the 
applicant within agreed time limits.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use  of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns: see as detailed in section 2.5. 
• 
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section   2.3  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Mycamine in the following indication: 
Adults, adolescents ≥ 16 years of age and elderly: 
-  Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
-  Treatment of oesophageal candidiasis in patients for whom intravenous therapy is appropriate. 
- Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
Children (including neonates) and adolescents < 16 years of age: 
-  Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
- Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days.  
The decision to use Mycamine should take into account a potential risk for the development of 
liver tumours (see section 4.4). Mycamine should therefore only be used if other antifungals 
are not appropriate.  
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
50/50 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
