EMA/781118/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005826 
Mycapssa (octreotide) 
An overview of Mycapssa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mycapssa and what is it used for? 
Mycapssa is a medicine used for the maintenance (long-term) treatment of acromegaly (a condition 
where the body produces too much growth hormone, leading to excessive growth of body tissue and 
bones, particularly of the hands, feet and face). Mycapssa can be used in adults who have previously 
responded to and tolerated treatment with other somatostatin analogues (synthetic versions of the 
hormone somatostatin).  
Mycapssa is a ‘hybrid medicine’, meaning that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but there are certain differences between the two. The reference medicine for 
Mycapssa is Sandostatin IR, which is a solution given as an injection or infusion (drip), whereas 
Mycapssa is a capsule given by mouth.  
Acromegaly is rare, and Mycapssa was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 5 August 2013. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/EU3131170 
Mycapssa contains the active substance octreotide.  
How is Mycapssa used? 
Mycapssa can only be obtained with a prescription.  
It is available as capsules to be taken twice a day by mouth. Capsules should be taken at least two 
hours after eating, and patients should not eat for at least one hour after taking the medicine.  
Mycapssa treatment may be started anytime after receiving the last somatostatin analogue injection 
and before the next planned injection. The starting dose of Mycapssa is 40 mg per day. Patients are 
then monitored by their treating doctor to check for signs and symptoms of their disease and measure 
levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1, a hormone which stimulates cell development, in particular 
of muscles, cartilage, bone, and certain organs). The dose of Mycapssa may be increased to a 
maximum of 80 mg per day to achieve disease control. Treatment may be stopped if levels of IGF-1 
cannot be controlled at the highest dose or if the patient cannot tolerate treatment.  
For more information about using Mycapssa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Mycapssa work? 
Acromegaly is a disease in which the pituitary gland (a small gland located at the base of the brain) 
produces too much growth hormone, in most cases because of pituitary adenoma (a non-cancerous 
tumour in the pituitary gland). The active substance in Mycapssa, octreotide, is a somatostatin 
analogue (a synthetic version of the hormone somatostatin). The medicine attaches to somatostatin 
receptors (targets) to lower the levels of growth hormone, thereby reducing disease symptoms.  
What benefits of Mycapssa have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Mycapssa have been investigated in three main studies that assessed whether patients 
who controlled their disease with an injectable somatostatin analogue could maintain control of their 
disease after they were given Mycapssa capsules by mouth. Disease control was measured by 
comparing the levels of IGF-1 in their blood with levels seen in healthy people.  
In the first study, 146 patients were first given Mycapssa for 26 weeks to determine an optimal dose to 
control their disease. Of these patients, 79.5% (116 out of 146) could sustainably maintain disease 
control with Mycapssa, and 63% (92 out of 146) of them continued the study. These patients then 
either continued treatment with Mycapssa or changed back to an injectable somatostatin analogue for 
36 weeks. Of the patients treated with Mycapssa, 91% (50 out of 55) maintained control of their 
disease compared with 100% (37 patients) of those who were given an injectable somatostatin 
analogue.  
In the second study, 56 patients received either Mycapssa or placebo (a dummy treatment). After 36 
weeks of treatment, 57% (16 out of 28) of patients given Mycapssa and 18% (5 out of 28) of patients 
given placebo were able to keep their disease under control.  
In the third study, patients treated with an injectable somatostatin analogue changed treatment to 
Mycapssa for 7 months, and around 65% (98 out of 151 patients) maintained control of their disease.  
What are the risks associated with Mycapssa? 
The most common side effects with Mycapssa (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
abdominal pain, diarrhoea, and nausea (feeling sick).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Mycapssa, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Mycapssa authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Mycapssa was as effective as injectable somatostatin 
analogues to maintain biochemical disease control in patients with acromegaly. The safety of Mycapssa 
was comparable to that seen with injectable somatostatin analogues and was considered acceptable. 
Therefore, the Agency decided that the benefits of Mycapssa are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mycapssa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mycapssa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
Mycapssa (octreotide)  
EMA/781118/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mycapssa are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Mycapssa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Mycapssa 
Mycapssa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 02 December 2022. 
Further information on Mycapssa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Mycapssa  
This overview was last updated in 12-2022.  
Mycapssa (octreotide)  
EMA/781118/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
