ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Mycapssa 20 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains octreotide acetate equivalent to 20 mg octreotide. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule (gastro-resistant capsule) 
White, size 0 enteric-coated hard gelatine capsules  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Mycapssa is indicated for maintenance treatment in adult patients with acromegaly who have 
responded to and tolerated treatment with somatostatin analogues. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Treatment may be initiated anytime following the last somatostatin analog injection and before the 
next injection would have been administered. The injectable somatostatin analogue should be 
discontinued. Treatment should be initiated at 40 mg daily, administered as 20 mg twice daily. During 
dose titration, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels and the patient’s signs and symptoms should 
be monitored every 2 weeks or as per clinician discretion, based on which dose adjustments should be 
considered. The dose should be increased in increments of 20 mg daily to obtain adequate control.  
Doses of 60 mg daily should be administered as 40 mg in the morning and 20 mg in the evening. 
Doses of 80 mg daily should be administered as 40 mg in the morning and 40 mg in the evening. 
The maximum recommended dose is 80 mg daily. 
For patients receiving a stable dose of Mycapssa, monitoring of IGF-1 and assessment of symptoms 
should be made periodically per clinician discretion. 
Discontinuation of Mycapssa and switching patients to another somatostatin analogue should be 
considered if IGF-1 levels are not maintained after treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 
80 mg daily or the patient cannot tolerate treatment with Mycapssa. 
Missed dose 
If a dose of Mycapssa is missed the dose should be taken as soon as possible and at least 6 hours prior 
to the next scheduled dose, otherwise the missed dose should not be taken. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
There is no evidence of reduced tolerability or altered dose requirements in elderly patients treated 
with octreotide. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with Child Pugh A or B. Patients with Child Pugh C have 
not been studied; careful monitoring of these patients when initiating treatment with Mycapssa is 
recommended. 
In patients with liver cirrhosis, the half-life of the medicinal product may be increased, necessitating 
adjustment of the maintenance dose. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment.  
There is a significant increase in octreotide exposure in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD). 
Patients with ESRD should start taking Mycapssa 20 mg daily. The maintenance dose should be 
adjusted based on IGF-1 levels, patient’s signs and symptoms, and tolerability. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Mycapssa in children aged below 18 years have not been established. No 
data are available. 
Method of administration  
Oral use. 
Mycapssa capsules should be swallowed whole with a glass of water, at least 1 hour before or at least 
2 hours after eating any food. To minimise variability in the individual patient it is recommended to 
have a routine intake of Mycapssa capsules in relation to food every day (for example, Mycapssa 
should be routinely taken at least 1 hour before breakfast and at least 2 hours after dinner) (see section 
5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
General 
As growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary tumours may sometimes expand, causing serious 
complications (e.g. visual field defects), it is essential that all patients be carefully monitored. If 
evidence of tumour expansion appears, alternative procedures may be advisable. 
The therapeutic benefits of a reduction in GH levels and normalisation of IGF-1 concentration in 
female acromegalic patients could potentially restore fertility. Female patients of childbearing 
potential should be advised to use adequate contraception, if necessary, during treatment with 
octreotide (see section 4.6). 
Thyroid function should be monitored in patients receiving prolonged treatment with octreotide. 
Hepatic function should be monitored during octreotide therapy. 
Cardiovascular related events 
Bradycardia and nodal arrhythmia have been reported (see section 4.8). Dose adjustment of medicinal 
products such as beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, or agents to control fluid and electrolyte 
balance, may be necessary (see section 4.5). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gallbladder and related events 
Cholelithiasis has been reported during treatment with octreotide and may be associated with 
cholecystitis (see section 4.8). Additionally, cases of cholangitis have been reported as a complication 
of cholelithiasis in patients receiving octreotide injections in the post-marketing setting. 
Ultrasonic examination of the gallbladder at about 6- to 12-month intervals during Mycapssa therapy 
is recommended. 
Glucose metabolism 
Because of its inhibitory action on GH, glucagon, and insulin, octreotide may affect glucose 
regulation. Post-prandial glucose tolerance may be impaired. As reported for patients treated with 
subcutaneous octreotide, in some instances, the state of persistent hyperglycaemia may be induced as a 
result of chronic administration. Hypoglycaemia has also been reported. 
Insulin requirements of patients with type I diabetes mellitus therapy may be reduced by 
administration of octreotide. In non-diabetics and type II diabetics with partially intact insulin 
reserves, octreotide administration can result in postprandial increases in glycaemia. It is therefore 
recommended to monitor glucose tolerance and antidiabetic treatment. 
Nutrition 
Octreotide may alter absorption of dietary fats in some patients. 
Depressed vitamin B12 levels and abnormal Schilling's tests have been observed in some patients 
receiving octreotide therapy. Monitoring of vitamin B12 levels is recommended during therapy with 
Mycapssa in patients who have a history of vitamin B12 deprivation. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say 
essentially sodium-free. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effects of other medicinal products on Mycapssa 
Concomitant administration of Mycapssa with esomeprazole has been found to decrease the 
bioavailability of Mycapssa. Medicinal products that alter the pH of the upper gastrointestinal tract 
(e.g. other proton pump inhibitors, H2-receptor antagonists, and antacids) may alter the absorption of 
Mycapssa and lead to a reduction in bioavailability. Concomitant administration of Mycapssa with 
proton pump inhibitors, H2-receptor antagonists, or antacids may require increased doses of 
Mycapssa. 
Concomitant administration of Mycapssa with metoclopramide reduced the Cmax and AUC of 
octreotide by an average of approximately 5% and 11%, respectively. Mycapssa should be titrated as 
indicated to clinical/biochemical effect.  
Concomitant administration of Mycapssa with loperamide reduced the Cmax and AUC of octreotide by 
an average of approximately 9% and 3%, respectively. Mycapssa should be titrated as indicated to 
clinical/biochemical effect. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of Mycapssa on other medicinal products 
Multiple mechanisms such as cytochrome P450 enzymes inhibition due to suppression of growth 
hormone, delayed gastric emptying or possibly enhanced permeability in some cases, are involved 
which may result in drug-drug interactions. Therefore, drug-drug interactions may vary between 
medicinal products. As a consequence, other medicinal products which have a narrow therapeutic 
index should therefore be used with caution and doses adjusted as necessary. 
In a clinical study, it was shown that transient permeability enhancer (TPE®) excipients in the 
formulation increase the intestinal absorption of octreotide via paracellular transport, using the 
lactulose to mannitol ratio test (see section 5.1). No interaction studies with other drugs that are 
transported via the paracellular route (e.g. alendronate or desmopressin) were conducted. 
Dose adjustment of medicinal products such as beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, or agents to 
control fluid and electrolyte balance may be necessary when Mycapssa is administered concomitantly 
(see section 4.4). 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) and Mycapssa resulted in a 9% decrease 
in Cmax and 19% decrease in AUC(0-5) of HCTZ. Dose adjustment of HCTZ may be necessary. 
Dose adjustments of insulin and antidiabetic medicinal products may be required when Mycapssa is 
administered concomitantly (see section 4.4).  
Concomitant administration of metformin and Mycapssa resulted in no significant changes in the early 
exposure to metformin.  
Octreotide has been found to reduce the intestinal absorption of ciclosporin (71% decrease in Cmax and 
63% decrease in AUC(inf)) Dose adjustment of ciclosporin may be necessary. 
Octreotide injections have been found to delay the intestinal absorption of cimetidine. Dose 
adjustment of cimetidine may be necessary. 
Concomitant administration of octreotide injections and bromocriptine increases the bioavailability of 
bromocriptine. Dose adjustments of bromocriptine may be necessary. 
Concomitant administration of lisinopril and Mycapssa increases the bioavailability of lisinopril (50% 
increase in Cmax and 40% increase in AUC(0-12)). Dose adjustment of lisinopril may be necessary when 
Mycapssa is administered concomitantly. 
Concomitant administration of digoxin and Mycapssa has been found to decrease the rate of digoxin 
absorption. 
Concomitant administration of levonorgestrel and Mycapssa decreases the bioavailability of 
levonorgestrel (38% decrease in Cmax and 24% decrease in AUC(0-5)), which may diminish the 
effectiveness of oral contraceptives containing progestogens (see section 4.6). 
Concomitant administration of warfarin and Mycapssa resulted in no significant changes in the early 
exposure to warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Female patients of childbearing potential should be advised to use adequate contraception, if 
necessary, during treatment with octreotide (see section 4.4). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant administration of Mycapssa with levonorgestrel decreases levonorgestrel bioavailability 
(see section 4.5). Decreased bioavailability may potentially diminish the effectiveness of oral 
contraceptives containing progestogens. Women should be counselled to use an alternative 
non-hormonal method of contraception or a back-up method when Mycapssa is used with oral 
contraceptives. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data (less than 300 pregnancy outcomes) from the use of octreotide in 
pregnant women, and in approximately one third of the cases the pregnancy outcomes are unknown. 
The majority of reports were received after post-marketing use of octreotide and more than 50% of 
exposed pregnancies were reported in patients with acromegaly. Most women were exposed to 
octreotide during the first trimester of pregnancy at doses ranging from 100-1200 micrograms/day of 
subcutaneous octreotide or 10-40 mg/month of long-acting release octreotide. Congenital anomalies 
were reported in about 4% of pregnancy cases for which the outcome is known. No causal relationship 
to octreotide is suspected for these cases. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). 
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Mycapssa during pregnancy (see 
section 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether octreotide is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies have shown 
excretion of octreotide in breast milk. A risk to the newborns cannot be excluded. Mycapssa should 
not be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
It is not known whether octreotide has an effect on human fertility. Late descent of the testes was 
found for male offspring of dams treated during pregnancy and lactation. Octreotide, however, did not 
impair fertility in male and female rats at doses of up to 1 mg/kg body weight per day (see 
section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Mycapssa has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised to be cautious when driving or using machines if they experience dizziness, asthenia/fatigue, 
or headache during treatment with Mycapssa. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequent adverse reactions reported during treatment with Mycapssa are mostly mild to 
moderate gastrointestinal disorders, with abdominal pain, diarrhoea, and nausea reported most 
frequently. The overall frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions is known to decrease over time 
with continued treatment. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse drug reactions (ADRs) listed below have been accumulated from clinical studies and 
post-marketing safety experience with octreotide. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse drug reactions are listed by System Organ Class according to the following classification: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 1: 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Diverticulitis, gastroenteritis, 
gastroenteritis viral, oral 
herpes 
Haemangioma of liver 
Leukopenia 
Post-
marketing 
safety 
experience 
(frequency 
not known) 
Thrombo-
cytopenia* 
Anaphylaxis*, 
allergy/hyper-
sensitivity 
reactions* 
System organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, malignant 
and unspecified 
(incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Hyper-
glycaemia** 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Hypo-
thyroidism*, 
thyroid 
disorder (e.g. 
decreased 
thyroid 
stimulating 
hormone, 
decreased total 
T4, and 
decreased free 
T4)* 
Hypo-
glycaemia**, 
impaired 
fasting 
glucose**, 
anorexia* 
7 
Decreased appetite, diabetes 
mellitus, 
hypertriglyceridaemia, 
dehydration* 
Agitation, anxiety, 
depression, disorientation, 
auditory hallucination, visual 
hallucination, insomnia, 
mood altered, mood swings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-
marketing 
safety 
experience 
(frequency 
not known) 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Headache** 
Dizziness 
Burning sensation, carpal 
tunnel syndrome, disturbance 
in attention, dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, memory 
impairment, paraesthesia, 
presyncope, sinus headache, 
somnolence, tremor 
Lacrimation increased 
Vertigo 
Bradycardia**  Nodal arrhythmia, 
tachycardia* 
Flushing, hypotension 
Dyspnoea* 
Nasal mucosal disorder, 
throat irritation 
Cardiac 
disorder, 
arrhythmias* 
System organ 
class 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Abdominal 
pain, diarrhoea 
nausea, 
constipation**
, flatulence** 
Dyspepsia, 
vomiting, 
abdominal 
bloating*, 
steatorrhoea*, 
faeces soft**, 
faeces 
discoloured**,
abdominal 
discomfort, 
abdominal 
distension, 
gastritis, 
gastro-
oesophageal 
reflux disease  
Cholecystitis*
*, biliary 
sludge*, 
hyperbili-
rubinaemia* 
Acute pancreatitis, change of 
bowel habit, dry mouth, 
faecal incontinence, faecal 
volume increased, frequent 
bowel movements, 
gastrointestinal disorder, 
gastrointestinal motility 
disorder, haemorrhoidal 
haemorrhage, odynophagia, 
oesophageal achalasia, 
parotid gland enlargement, 
rectal tenesmus 
Bile duct obstruction, 
jaundice, post 
cholecystectomy syndrome, 
biliary colic, gallbladder 
disorder, hepatic steatosis 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Chole-
lithiasis** 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Pruritus**, 
rash**, 
alopecia* 
Allergic dermatitis, 
hyperhidrosis, hypertrichosis  
8 
Acute hepatitis 
without 
cholestasis*, 
cholestatic 
hepatitis*, 
cholestasis*, 
cholestatic 
jaundice* 
Urticaria* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-
marketing 
safety 
experience 
(frequency 
not known) 
Blood growth 
hormone 
increased 
System organ 
class 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 1 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Arthralgia 
Asthenia, 
fatigue, 
peripheral 
swelling 
Elevated liver 
function tests2 
Back pain, bone pain, flank 
pain, groin pain, joint 
swelling, muscle spasms, 
musculoskeletal discomfort, 
musculoskeletal pain, 
myalgia, pain in extremity, 
soft tissue swelling 
Feeling abnormal, feeling of 
body temperature change, 
malaise, pain, tenderness, 
thirst 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased, 
blood creatinine increased, 
blood lactate dehydrogenase 
increased, blood urea 
increased, cardiac murmur, 
heart rate irregular, insulin-
like growth factor increased, 
lipase increased, thyroxine 
increased, weight decreased, 
weight increased 
* These adverse reactions were not observed with Mycapssa. Their frequencies were established based 
on data from injectable octreotide 
** Very common or common adverse reactions reported more frequently for injectable octreotide 
versus Mycapssa 
1 Injection site reactions were reported as very common ADR for injectable octreotide. Since Mycapssa 
is for oral administration only, this ADR is not included in the table 
2 For injectable octreotide, elevated transaminase levels were reported as common ADR, and increased 
alkaline  phosphatase  levels  and  gamma  glutamyl  transferase  levels  were  reported  post-marketing 
(frequency not known) 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Gallbladder and related reactions 
Somatostatin analogues have been shown to inhibit gallbladder contractility and decrease bile 
secretion, which may lead to gallbladder abnormalities or sludge. If gallstones do occur, they are 
usually asymptomatic; symptomatic stones should be treated either by dissolution therapy with bile 
acids or by surgery. 
Cardiac disorders 
Bradycardia is an adverse reaction with somatostatin analogues. ECG changes observed with 
octreotide include QT prolongation, axis shifts, early repolarisation, low voltage, R/S transition, early 
R wave progression, and non-specific ST-T wave changes. The relationship of these events to 
octreotide is not established because many of these patients have underlying cardiac diseases (see 
section 4.4). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
A limited number of accidental overdoses of octreotide injections in adults and children have been 
reported. In adults, the doses ranged from 2,400-6,000 micrograms/day administered by continuous 
infusion (100-250 micrograms/hour) or subcutaneously (1,500 micrograms three times a day). The 
adverse events reported were arrhythmia, hypotension, cardiac arrest, brain hypoxia, pancreatitis, 
hepatic steatosis, diarrhoea, weakness, lethargy, weight loss, hepatomegaly, and lactic acidosis. 
In children, the doses ranged from 50-3,000 micrograms/day administered by continuous infusion 
(2.1-500 micrograms/hour) or subcutaneously (50-100 micrograms). The only adverse event reported 
was mild hyperglycaemia. 
No unexpected adverse events have been reported in cancer patients receiving subcutaneous octreotide 
at doses of 3,000-30,000 micrograms/day in divided doses. 
The management of overdose is symptomatic. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Pituitary and hypothalamic hormones and analogues, somatostatin and 
analogues, ATC code: H01CB02 
Mechanism of action 
Octreotide is a synthetic octapeptide derivative of naturally occurring somatostatin with similar 
pharmacological effects, but with a considerably prolonged duration of action. It inhibits 
pathologically increased secretion of GH and of peptides and serotonin produced within the 
gastro-entero-pancreatic (GEP) endocrine system. 
In animals, octreotide is a more potent inhibitor of GH, glucagon and insulin release than somatostatin 
is, with greater selectivity for GH and glucagon suppression. 
In healthy subjects, octreotide has been shown to inhibit: 
• 
• 
release of GH stimulated by arginine, exercise- and insulin-induced hypoglycaemia,  
post-prandial release of insulin, glucagon, gastrin, other peptides of the GEP endocrine system, 
and arginine-stimulated release of insulin and glucagon, 
thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-stimulated release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). 
• 
Unlike somatostatin, octreotide inhibits GH secretion preferentially over insulin and its administration 
is not followed by rebound hypersecretion of hormones (i.e. GH in patients with acromegaly). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In a single-dose study conducted in healthy volunteers, inhibition of GH was observed in all subjects 
receiving Mycapssa, as compared to their GH levels prior to Mycapssa.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a study designed to assess the duration of Mycapssa-induced increased intestinal permeability, an 
increase in paracellular permeability was observed 2 hours after Mycapssa administration and returned 
to baseline by 5.5 hours after Mycapssa administration. Mycapssa-induced permeability is completely 
reversible within this timeframe.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of Mycapssa in patients with acromegaly were established in 3 phase 3 clinical 
studies: a 9-month, randomised, open-label, active-controlled study, preceded by a 6-month run-in 
phase (OOC-ACM-302); a 9-month, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 
(OOC-ACM-303); and a 7-month, open-label, baseline-controlled study (CH-ACM-01). All 3 studies 
were switch studies in patients with acromegaly who had responded to treatment with injectable 
somatostatin analogues. All 3 studies comprised optional open-label extension phases. In all 3 studies, 
the Mycapssa starting dose was 40 mg (20 mg in the morning and 20 mg in the evening). Dose 
increase of Mycapssa was allowed during dose titration to 60 mg (40 mg in the morning and 20 mg in 
the evening) and to a maximal dose of 80 mg daily (40 mg in the morning and 40 mg in the evening) 
until patients were deemed adequately controlled based on biochemical results and/or clinical 
judgement. Patients then maintained their target dose until end of treatment. 
Study OOC-ACM-302 
In the active-controlled study (OOC-ACM-302), 146 patients initiated Mycapssa run-in treatment 
within the routine dosing interval from their last somatostatin analogue injection. Mean baseline IGF-1 
was 0.9 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). 116 patients (79.5%) completed the 6-month run-in 
phase; 30 patients (20.5%) discontinued. Most frequent reasons for discontinuation during the run-in 
phase were treatment failure (5.5%) and adverse events (9.6%; mostly mild to moderate 
gastrointestinal events).  
Of the 146 patients enrolled, 92 patients (63.0%) completed the run-in phase and were biochemically 
controlled (defined as IGF-1 ≤ 1.3 times ULN and GH < 2.5 ng/mL). These patients were randomised 
to either continue treatment with Mycapssa or revert to their previous treatment with injectable 
somatostatin analogues.  
The primary efficacy endpoint of study OOC-ACM-302 was the proportion of patients who were 
biochemically controlled throughout the 9-month randomised controlled treatment (RCT) phase. 
A patient was considered biochemically controlled if the IGF-1 time-weighted average of all IGF-1 
assessments during the RCT phase was < 1.3 times ULN.  
90.9% of patients treated with Mycapssa versus 100% of patients treated with injectable somatostatin 
analogues were biochemically controlled throughout the RCT phase. The primary endpoint met the 
prespecified non-inferiority criterion of -20% (see Table 2). 
Table 2: 
Primary endpoint results of study OOC-ACM-302 
Mycapssa 
(N = 55) 
Injectable somatostatin analogues 
(N = 37) 
Primary analysis 
Biochemically controlled 1, n (%) 
Difference in adjusted proportions 2 
95% CI 
1 
times ULN 
2 
The adjusted difference and CI were obtained using the stratified M&N method  
CI = confidence interval; IGF-1 = insulin-like growth factor 1; M&N = Miettinen & Nurminen; 
RCT = randomised controlled treatment; ULN = upper limit of normal 
50 (90.9) 
-9.1 
(-19.9, 0.5) 
Defined as IGF-1 time-weighted average of all IGF-1 assessments during the RCT phase < 1.3 
37 (100) 
Table 3 includes data on active acromegaly symptoms reported during the run-in and RCT phases of 
OOC-ACM-302 study.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: 
Proportion of patients with active acromegaly symptoms in patients that enrolled 
to the randomised controlled treatment phase of study OOC-ACM-302 
Run-in phase 
RCT phase 
Baseline 
Run-in 
Injectable 
somatostatin 
analogues 
% (N = 92) 
71 
47 
End of Run-in 
Mycapssa 
% (N = 92) 
62 
33 
Symptom 
Joint pain 
Swelling of 
extremities 
Perspiration 
Fatigue 
Headache 
42 
64 
48 
RCT = randomised controlled treatment 
50 
75 
50 
End of RCT 
Injectable somatostatin 
analogues 
% (N = 37) 
End of RCT 
Mycapssa 
% (N = 55) 
70 
41 
54 
65 
43 
60 
42 
38 
64 
53 
Study OOC-ACM-303 
The placebo-controlled study OOC-ACM-303 enrolled 56 patients. Mean baseline IGF-1 was 0.8 
times ULN. The primary efficacy endpoint was the somatostatin dose-adjusted proportion of patients 
who maintained their biochemical response, defined similarly to the inclusion criteria, as an IGF-1 
level less than or equal to the ULN at the end of 9 months of treatment. 58.2% of patients treated with 
Mycapssa versus 19.4% of patients treated with placebo maintained their biochemical response 
(p = 0.0079; see Table 4). 
Table 4: 
Primary endpoint results of study OOC-ACM-303  
Maintained biochemical response 1, 
adjusted proportions 2 
Difference in adjusted proportions 2 
95% CI 
p-value 
Placebo 
(N = 28) 
19.42 
Mycapssa 
(N = 28) 
58.16 
38.74 
(10.68, 59.90) 
0.0079 
Defined as average IGF-1 ≤ 1 x ULN after 9 months of treatment. Early discontinuation was 
1 
regarded as non-response. 
2 
CI = confidence interval; IGF-1 = insulin-like growth factor 1; SRL = somatostatin receptor ligand; 
ULN = upper limit of normal 
Adjusted for treatment group, baseline SRL dose and baseline IGF-1 level 
Study CH-ACM-01 
The baseline-controlled study CH-ACM-01 enrolled 151 patients. Mean baseline IGF-1 was 0.9 times 
ULN. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of responders at the end of the 7-month core 
treatment phase. Response was defined similarly to the inclusion criteria, as IGF-1 levels less than 1.3 
times ULN and GH levels less than 2.5 ng/mL. Overall, 64.9% of patients were responders at the end 
of the core treatment phase (see Table 5).  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Primary endpoint results of study CH-ACM-01 
Responders 1, n (%) 
Exact 95% CI for % 2 
1 
Mycapssa 
(N = 151) 
98 (64.9) 
(58.4, 74.2) 
Defined as IGF-1 < 1.3 times ULN (adjusted for age and sex) and 2-hour integrated GH < 2.5 
ng/mL after 7 months of treatment (LOCF analysis) 
Obtained using Clopper-Pearson (Exact) method 
2 
CI = confidence interval; GH = growth hormone; IGF-1 = insulin-like growth factor 1; LOCF = last 
observation carried forward; ULN = upper limit of normal 
The individual symptom scores for swelling of extremities and joint pain showed a statistically 
significant improvement at the end of core treatment period, while treated with Mycapssa, compared 
to baseline, while treated with injectable somatostatin analogues (p = 0.0165 and p = 0.0382, 
respectively). 
Paediatric population 
See section 4.2 for information on paediatric use. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Orally administered octreotide is absorbed in the intestines via the paracellular route. Transient 
permeability enhancer (TPE®) excipients in the formulation facilitate the absorption of octreotide. In a 
clinical study it was shown that TPE excipients increase intestinal absorption via the paracellular 
route, using the lactulose to mannitol ratio test (see section 4.5). Increased permeability was shown to 
be transient and reversible (see section 5.1). 
In healthy subjects, systemic exposure, as measured by AUC, of a single oral dose of Mycapssa 
(20 mg octreotide acetate) was 95% to 100% of that of a single dose of subcutaneous octreotide 
acetate (0.1 mg octreotide acetate), demonstrating comparable exposure. Peak octreotide levels (Cmax) 
were 22%-33% lower following oral administration compared to the subcutaneous route. Absorption 
time was longer after oral administration than after subcutaneous administration; peak concentrations 
were reached at a median of 1.67-2.5 hours after oral administration and after 0.5 hours after 
subcutaneous administration.  
After single-dose administration of Mycapssa, the systemic exposure of octreotide in healthy subjects 
increased dose-proportionally for doses between 3 and 40 mg. In patients with acromegaly, there was a 
dose-related increase in mean plasma octreotide concentrations after chronic administration of 
Mycapssa 40 mg (20 mg twice daily), 60 mg (40 mg morning/20 mg evening), and 80 mg (40 mg 
twice daily).  
Effect of food on oral absorption 
In healthy volunteer studies, administration of Mycapssa 20 mg with food led to an approximate 90% 
decrease in the extent of absorption. Full size high fat meals provided 1 hour prior or 2 hours post dose 
significantly decreased the absorption of Mycapssa (see section 4.2). 
In all phase 3 studies Mycapssa capsules were taken at least 1 hour prior or at least 2 hours after eating 
any food. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
After subcutaneous injection, the volume of distribution is 0.27 L/kg, and the total body clearance 
160 mL/min. Plasma protein binding amounts to 65%. The amount of octreotide bound to blood cells 
is negligible. 
Elimination 
The elimination half-life after subcutaneous administration is 100 minutes. Most of the peptide is 
eliminated via the faeces, while approximately 32% is excreted unchanged into the urine. 
Half-life after single oral administration of Mycapssa was similar to the subcutaneous route 
(2.66 hours and 2.27 hours respectively). 
In patients with acromegaly, elimination after chronic dosing was slightly slower than that seen in 
healthy volunteers, with mean apparent half-life values at steady state ranging from 3.2–4.5 hours 
across doses (20 mg, 40 mg, 60 mg, and 80 mg). Elimination is complete approximately 48 hours after 
the last dose in patients who have achieved steady-state plasma levels. 
Special patient population 
Patients with renal impairment 
Exposure in subjects with severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] 15–
29 mL/min/1.73 m2) was not substantially different from that of matched healthy controls. Subjects 
with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring dialysis had higher mean plasma concentrations than 
those with severe renal impairment with higher mean values for peak plasma concentration, exposure 
(AUC), and half-life, consistent with an effect of renal impairment on octreotide exposure (see 
section 4.2). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The elimination capacity may be reduced in patients with liver cirrhosis, but not in patients with fatty 
liver disease. 
Pharmacokinetics of octreotide after administration of 10 mg or 20 mg Mycapssa in subjects with 
stable cirrhosis and portal hypertension (Child Pugh A or B) were comparable to the pharmacokinetics 
in healthy volunteers (see section 4.2). No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with Child Pugh A 
or B. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Acute and repeated dose toxicology, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicology studies 
of octreotide acetate in animals revealed no specific safety concerns for humans. 
Reproduction studies of octreotide acetate in animals revealed no evidence of teratogenic, 
embryo/foetal or other reproduction effects due to octreotide at parental doses of up to 1 mg/kg/day. 
Some retardation of the physiological growth was noted in the offspring of rats which was transient 
and attributable to GH inhibition brought about by excessive pharmacodynamic activity (see 
section 4.6). 
No specific studies were conducted in juvenile rats. In the pre- and post-natal developmental studies, 
reduced growth and maturation was observed in the first filial generation (F1) offspring of dams given 
octreotide during the entire pregnancy and lactation period. Delayed descent of the testes was 
observed for male F1 offspring, but fertility of the affected F1 male pups remained normal. Thus, the 
above mentioned observations were transient and considered to be the consequence of GH inhibition. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity/chronic toxicity 
In rats receiving octreotide acetate at daily subcutaneous doses up to 1.25 mg/kg body weight, 
fibrosarcomas were observed, predominantly in a number of male animals, at the subcutaneous 
injection site after 52, 104 and 113/116 weeks. Local tumours also occurred in the control rats, 
however development of these tumours was attributed to disordered fibroplasia produced by sustained 
irritant effects at the injection sites, enhanced by the acidic lactic acid/mannitol vehicle. This 
non-specific tissue reaction appeared to be particular to rats. Neoplastic lesions were not observed 
either in mice receiving daily subcutaneous injections of octreotide at doses up to 2 mg/kg for 
98 weeks, or in dogs treated with daily subcutaneous doses of octreotide for 52 weeks, or in 
cynomolgus monkeys treated orally with 20 mg/day octreotide (as octreotide capsules) for 9 months. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Povidone 
Sodium caprylate 
Magnesium chloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Glyceryl monocaprylate 
Glyceryl tricaprylate 
Gelatine 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Methacrylic acid - ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Talc 
Triethyl citrate 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Sodium hydrogen carbonate 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze. 
Mycapssa may be kept out of refrigeration for up to 1 month, at a temperature not above 25℃, after 
which the medicinal product must be discarded. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene [PCTFE]/polyethylene [PE]/polyvinylchloride [PVC]-aluminium blisters. 
Pack size of 28 gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Patients should be instructed to gently remove capsules from the blister. Patients should press gently 
on top or bottom of a capsule; not press in the middle of a capsule as this could damage it. If a capsule 
is cracked or broken, patients should be advised to throw it away and remove a new capsule. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC 
45 Mespil Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1690/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Pharbil Pharma GmbH 
Reichenberger Strasse 43 
33605 Bielefeld 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Mycapssa 20 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
octreotide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains octreotide acetate equivalent to 20 mg octreotide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
gastro-resistant hard capsules 
28 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
How to remove the capsule: 
 Press GENTLY on top or bottom of capsule. 
 DO NOT press the middle of the capsule. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
During use, Mycapssa may be stored at no more than 25 °C for up to 1 month. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC 
45 Mespil Road  
Dublin 4  
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1690/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Mycapssa 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Mycapssa 20 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
octreotide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Mycapssa 20 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
octreotide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Mycapssa is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Mycapssa 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Mycapssa 
Possible side effects  
How to store Mycapssa 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Mycapssa is and what it is used for 
Mycapssa contains the active substance octreotide. Octreotide is a synthetic form of somatostatin, a 
natural substance that controls the release of human growth hormone. Octreotide works in the same 
way as somatostatin, but its action lasts longer so it does not need to be taken so often. 
Mycapssa is used for maintenance treatment in adults with acromegaly, a condition wherein the body 
produces too much growth hormone. It is used in patients in whom medicines like somatostatin have 
already been shown to be of benefit. 
Normally, growth hormone regulates the growth of tissues, organs and bones. In acromegaly, 
increased production of growth hormone (usually from a non-cancerous tumour in the pituitary gland) 
leads to enlargement of bones and certain tissues, and symptoms such as headache, excessive 
sweating, numbness in the hands and feet, tiredness and joint pain. Treatment with Mycapssa can help 
relieve the symptoms.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Mycapssa 
Do not take Mycapssa 
- 
if you are allergic to octreotide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Mycapssa or during treatment if you have: 
- 
heart or blood circulation problems, since the medicine can affect the rate and regularity of 
your heartbeat. 
gallbladder problems. Octreotide can cause gallstones to form, and your doctor will 
recommend ultrasound scans to check for this, usually every 6 to 12 months while you are being 
treated with this medicine. 
diabetes, since Mycapssa may affect your blood sugar. Persistent increased blood sugar levels 
may occur during long-term use. Low blood sugar levels have also been reported. Therefore, 
your doctor may recommend monitoring blood sugar levels and treatment of diabetes. 
- 
- 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
If you have type I diabetes and you are being treated with insulin, your doses may need to be 
reduced during treatment with Mycapssa. 
ever had lack of vitamin B12. If you have a history of lacking vitamin B12, your doctor may 
wish to check your vitamin B12 level periodically during treatment with Mycapssa since this 
medicine can decrease vitamin B12 levels in the blood. 
Monitoring during treatment 
Tumours of the pituitary gland that produce excess growth hormone and lead to acromegaly 
sometimes expand, causing serious complications such as visual problems. It is essential that you are 
monitored for tumour growth while taking Mycapssa. If evidence of tumour expansion appears, your 
doctor may prescribe a different treatment. 
Your doctor will regularly check your liver function during treatment and will also check your thyroid 
function when treatment with Mycapssa is prolonged. 
Children and adolescents 
Mycapssa is not recommended in children and adolescents under 18 years because it is not known if it 
is safe or effective in this age group. 
Other medicines and Mycapssa 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking the following medicines as they may change how Mycapssa works: 
- 
- 
- 
medicines which control or reduce stomach acid 
metoclopramide: a medicine to treat nausea and vomiting 
loperamide: a medicine to treat diarrhoea 
Also, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, which may be affected when 
used with Mycapssa. If you take these medicines, your doctor may need to adjust the doses of these 
medicines: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
medicines called beta blockers, used to treat high blood pressure, heart disease or other illnesses 
medicines called calcium channel blockers, used to treat high blood pressure or heart diseases  
hydrochlorothiazide: a medicine to treat high blood pressure and tissue swelling caused by 
excess fluid 
quinidine: a medicine to treat irregular heart rhythm 
lisinopril: a medicine to treat high blood pressure and other heart and specific kidney diseases 
digoxin: a medicine to treat heart weakness and irregular heartbeat 
medicines to treat fluid and electrolyte balance 
insulin or other medicines to treat diabetes 
ciclosporin: a medicine to suppress transplant rejection, treat severe skin diseases, severe eye 
and joint inflammation 
bromocriptine: a medicine to treat Parkinson’s and other diseases (e.g. pituitary tumours) and to 
aid weaning 
oral contraceptives, such as birth control pills: a medicine to prevent pregnancy or to treat 
intensive menstrual bleeding 
Mycapssa may reduce the effectiveness of oral hormonal contraceptives containing 
progestogens. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Avoid taking Mycapssa during pregnancy and breast-feeding. This is a precaution, as there is limited 
information on the use of Mycapssa during pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
Women who can get pregnant should use effective contraception during treatment with Mycapssa. 
Discuss appropriate methods with your doctor as Mycapssa may reduce the effectiveness of oral 
contraceptives containing progestogens. If you are using such contraceptives, you are therefore 
advised to use other non-hormonal methods of contraception or add a back-up method while taking 
Mycapssa. 
Driving and using machines 
Mycapssa has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, avoid 
driving or using machines if your ability to react is reduced due to side effects such as dizziness, 
weakness/fatigue or headache. 
Mycapssa contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Mycapssa 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended starting dose is 1 capsule twice daily. 
The doctor will gradually increase the dose in steps of 1 capsule daily to adequately control your 
disease, up to a maximum recommended daily dose of 4 capsules. Your doctor will check your 
symptoms and the levels of a substance called insulin-like growth factor every 2 weeks or so after each 
increase, to check how your body is responding to the new dose and find the right dose for you.  
Your doctor will check your symptoms less frequently once you are on a regular daily dose. During 
these checks your doctor will make sure that the medicine is still working well for you. 
Method of use 
Always take this medicine as instructed by your doctor. Swallow the capsules whole with a glass of 
water, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating any food. It is recommended to have a routine 
schedule for taking Mycapssa in relation to food every day (for example, take Mycapssa routinely at 
least 1 hour before breakfast and at least 2 hours after dinner). 
How to remove a capsule from blister:  
Press GENTLY on top or bottom of capsule. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DO NOT press the middle of the capsule. This could damage it. 
If a capsule is cracked or broken, throw it away (discard it) and remove another capsule. 
If you take more Mycapssa than you should 
If you have accidentally taken more Mycapssa than you should, stop taking this medicine and tell your 
doctor straight away. 
If you forget to take Mycapssa 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Administer one dose as soon as you 
remember, as long as it is taken at least 6 hours before the next scheduled dose. Otherwise, skip the 
missed dose and take your next dose at the usual time. 
If you stop taking Mycapssa 
Do not stop taking this medicine without discussing with your doctor first. If you stop taking 
Mycapssa, your acromegaly symptoms may come back. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects can occur with the following frequencies: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
abdominal (belly) pain 
diarrhoea 
nausea 
increased blood sugar level 
headache  
constipation 
wind 
gallstones 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
dizziness 
discomfort or bloating or swelling of your abdomen (belly) 
indigestion 
inflammation of stomach lining 
disease caused by reflux of stomach juices 
vomiting 
joint pain 
weakness, fatigue 
swelling of arms and/or legs 
increased levels of liver enzymes 
low blood sugar level 
discoloured stool, soft stool 
loss of appetite  
slow heartbeat 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
difficulty breathing 
excess fat in stool 
acute inflammation of the gallbladder 
thickening of bile  
increased blood level of bilirubin, a waste product from breakdown of red blood cells 
itching, rash 
hair loss 
thyroid problems 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of abnormal pouches in the wall of the large intestine 
inflammation of the stomach and bowel lining 
herpes (sores) of the mouth lining 
non-aggressive tumour of liver blood vessels 
reduced number of white blood cells 
decreased appetite 
diabetes mellitus 
dehydration 
high blood fat values of triglycerides 
restlessness 
anxiety 
depression, disorientation, altered mood, mood swings 
hallucination in hearing, visual hallucination 
sleeping difficulties 
pain, numbness and tingling in the wrist or hand 
disturbed attention 
taste disturbance 
reduced memory 
abnormal sensation such as reduced sense of touch, burning, prickling, tingling and itchiness 
feeling faint 
headache due to blocked sinuses 
drowsiness 
shaking 
increased flow of tears 
irregular heartbeat, fast heartbeat  
sudden skin reddening and feeling very hot 
low blood pressure 
disorder of the inner lining in the nose, throat irritation 
acute pancreas inflammation 
change of bowel habit 
dry mouth 
stool incontinence, increased stool volume 
frequent bowel movements  
stomach and bowel disorder, such as motility disorder 
bleeding haemorrhoids (piles) 
pain when swallowing 
a disorder called achalasia which can cause the lower gullet sphincter to remain closed, causing 
difficulty in swallowing 
parotid (jaw) gland enlargement 
feeling of incomplete bowel emptying 
bile duct obstruction  
yellowing of the skin, internal organs and/or whites of the eyes 
complaints after surgical removal of the gallbladder called post cholecystectomy syndrome 
gallbladder attack, gallbladder disorder 
fatty liver 
allergic skin inflammation 
increased sweating 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
29 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
condition of excessive body hair 
pain, such as back pain, bone pain, flank pain, groin pain 
joint swelling 
muscle spasms 
discomfort or pain of muscles and skeleton 
pain in arms and legs 
soft tissue swelling 
feeling abnormal or unwell 
feeling of body temperature change 
tenderness 
thirst 
heart murmur 
increased or decreased weight 
increased blood levels of: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
creatine phosphokinase 
creatinine 
lactate dehydrogenase 
urea 
insulin-like growth factor 
lipase 
thyroxine 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
heart disorder 
increased growth hormone levels in the blood 
low platelet counts, potentially leading to bruising or bleeding 
severe allergic reactions or other allergic reactions 
abnormal heart rhythms 
liver inflammation 
reduced bile flow 
jaundice  
nettle-rash  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Mycapssa  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze. 
Mycapssa can be kept out of refrigeration for up to 1 month, but may not be stored above 25 °C, after 
which the medicine must be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Mycapssa contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is octreotide. One capsule contains octreotide acetate equivalent to 20 mg 
octreotide. 
The other ingredients are povidone, sodium caprylate, magnesium chloride, polysorbate 80, 
glyceryl monocaprylate, glyceryl tricaprylate, gelatine, titanium dioxide (E171), methacrylic 
acid - ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1), talc, triethyl citrate, silica, colloidal anhydrous, sodium 
hydrogen carbonate, sodium laurilsulfate (see section 2 “Mycapssa contains sodium”). 
What Mycapssa looks like and contents of the pack 
Mycapssa are white gastro-resistant hard capsules (gastro-resistant capsule). They are packed in 
plastic/aluminium blisters in a carton. 
Pack size: 28 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC 
45 Mespil Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Pharbil Pharma GmbH 
Reichenberger Strasse 43 
33605 Bielefeld 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
