EMA/664784/2012 
EMEA/H/C/000882 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva 
mycophenolate mofetil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mycophenolate mofetil Teva. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Mycophenolate mofetil Teva. 
What is Mycophenolate mofetil Teva? 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is a medicine containing the active substance mycophenolate mofetil. It is 
available as capsules (250 mg) and tablets (500 mg). 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is 
similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called CellCept. For 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Mycophenolate mofetil Teva used for? 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is used to prevent the body from rejecting a transplanted kidney, heart or 
liver. It is used with ciclosporin and corticosteroids (other medicines used to prevent organ rejection). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Mycophenolate mofetil Teva used? 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva treatment should be initiated and maintained by a qualified transplant 
specialist. 
The way that Mycophenolate mofetil Teva should be given and the dose depend on the type of organ 
transplant and the patient’s age and size. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For kidney transplants, the recommended dose in adults is 1.0 g twice a day starting within 72 hours 
after the transplant. In children aged between two and 18 years, the dose of Mycophenolate mofetil 
Teva is calculated depending on height and weight. 
For heart transplants, the recommended adult dose is 1.5 g twice a day, starting within five days 
following the transplant. 
For liver transplants in adults, mycophenolate mofetil should be given as an infusion (drip into a vein) 
for the first four days after the transplant, before the patient is switched to 1.5 g Mycophenolate 
mofetil Teva twice a day as soon as it can be tolerated.  
The dose may need to be adjusted in patients with liver or kidney disease. For more information, see 
the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Mycophenolate mofetil Teva work? 
The active substance in Mycophenolate mofetil Teva, mycophenolate mofetil, is an immunosuppressive 
medicine. In the body, it is converted into mycophenolic acid, which blocks an enzyme called ‘inosine 
monophosphate dehydrogenase’. This enzyme is important for the formation of DNA in cells, 
particularly in the lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell which is involved in the rejection of organ 
transplants). By preventing the production of new DNA, Mycophenolate mofetil Teva reduces the rate 
at which the lymphocytes multiply. This makes them less effective at recognising and attacking the 
transplanted organ, lowering the risk of the organ being rejected. 
How has Mycophenolate mofetil Teva been studied? 
Because Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to 
tests to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, CellCept. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Mycophenolate mofetil Teva? 
Because Mycophenolate mofetil Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Mycophenolate mofetil Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Mycophenolate mofetil Teva has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to CellCept. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was 
that, as for CellCept, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Mycophenolate mofetil Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva on 21 February 2008. 
The full EPAR for Mycophenolate mofetil Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Mycophenolate mofetil Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of 
the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the EMEA’s website. 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva  
EMA/664784/2012 
Page 2/3
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 11-2012. 
Mycophenolate mofetil Teva  
EMA/664784/2012 
Page 3/3
 
 
 
