EMA/246931/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004204 
Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) 
An overview of Mylotarg and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Mylotarg and what is it used for? 
Mylotarg is a medicine used to treat a blood cancer called acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in patients 
aged 15 years and above who are newly diagnosed and have not tried other treatments. 
It is used in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine (other cancer medicines). 
Mylotarg is used in patients with a protein called CD33 on their cancer cells (which is the case in most 
patients with AML). It is not used for a type of AML called acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). 
AML is rare, and Mylotarg was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
18 October 2000. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
Mylotarg contains the active substance gemtuzumab ozogamicin. 
How is Mylotarg used? 
Mylotarg is given as an infusion into a vein lasting 2 hours. The patient usually receives 3 infusions 
within one week. The patient will also be given two other medicines: daunorubicin and cytarabine.   
If the cancer responds to initial treatment, the patient may receive further ‘consolidation’ treatment to 
keep the cancer from coming back.  
Mylotarg infusions must be given in a place (such as a hospital) where the patient can be resuscitated 
if there are severe reactions. The patient is also given medicines to help prevent reactions such as 
reddening of the skin, chills and fever.  
For more information about using Mylotarg, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. Mylotarg can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Mylotarg work? 
The active substance in Mylotarg, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, consists of two parts: a cytotoxic (cell-
killing) substance and a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The monoclonal antibody part (gemtuzumab) has been designed to attach to CD33. When the antibody 
attaches to CD33 on leukaemia cells, the cells absorb the antibody, as well as the cytotoxic substance 
that it is attached to. Inside the cells, the cytotoxic substance, which is called calicheamicin, is 
released. The calicheamicin then breaks up the cells’ DNA, eventually killing the cells. 
What benefits of Mylotarg have been shown in studies? 
A main study in 271 patients with AML has shown that adding Mylotarg to daunorubicin and cytarabine 
can prolong the time patients live without their cancer coming back by around 8 months.  
In patients receiving Mylotarg in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine, it took an average of 
17.3 months until the treatment failed, the cancer came back or the patient died, compared with 9.5 
months in patients receiving a combination of only daunorubicin and cytarabine.  
What are the risks associated with Mylotarg? 
The most common side effects with Mylotarg when given in combination with daunorubicin and 
cytarabine (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are bleeding and severe infections. These side 
effects can be serious in more than 1 in 10 people. Other serious side effects with the combination 
therapy are liver disease, including veno-occlusive disease (a liver injury), and tumour lysis syndrome 
(a complication due to the breakdown of cancer cells).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Mylotarg, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Mylotarg authorised in the EU? 
Mylotarg, given in combination with daunorubicin and cytarabine, has been shown to prolong the time 
patients lived before the cancer came back by up to 8 months. Although some side effects with 
Mylotarg can be serious, they were considered acceptable in light of the severity of the patients’ 
condition.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Mylotarg’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mylotarg? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Mylotarg have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Mylotarg are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Mylotarg are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Mylotarg 
Mylotarg received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 April 2018. 
Further information on Mylotarg can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2018. 
Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)  
EMA/246931/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
