EMA/631375/2019  
EMEA/H/C/000297 
Myocet liposomal1 (doxorubicin) 
An overview of Myocet liposomal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Myocet liposomal and what is it used for? 
Myocet liposomal is a cancer medicine for use with cyclophosphamide (another cancer medicine) to 
treat women with metastatic breast cancer. ‘Metastatic’ means that the cancer has spread to other 
parts of the body. 
Myocet liposomal contains the active substance doxorubicin. 
How is Myocet liposomal used? 
Myocet liposomal can only be obtained with a prescription and it should be given under the supervision 
of a doctor experienced in the use of cytotoxic chemotherapy (cell-killing cancer treatment). It should 
be given in a specialised unit for giving chemotherapy. 
Myocet liposomal is given every 3 weeks by infusion (drip) into a vein over an hour. The dose is 
calculated on the basis of the woman’s weight and height. The doctor may interrupt treatment or 
reduce the dose if certain side effects develop. 
For more information about using Myocet liposomal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Myocet liposomal work? 
The active substance in Myocet liposomal, doxorubicin, is a cytotoxic (cell-killing) medicine that 
belongs to the group ‘anthracyclines’. It works by interfering with the DNA in cells, preventing the cells 
from making copies of DNA and from making proteins. This means that cancer cells cannot divide and 
eventually die. Because Myocet liposomal builds up in tumours, its effect is concentrated there. 
Doxorubicin has been available since the 1960s. In Myocet liposomal, doxorubicin is enclosed in tiny 
fat particles called ‘liposomes’. This helps to protect the heart and the gut from doxorubicin's harmful 
effects and so reduces side effects. 
1
 Previously known as Myocet. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Myocet liposomal have been shown in studies? 
Three main studies involving a total of 681 women with metastatic breast cancer found treatment with 
Myocet liposomal for 6 weeks at least as effective as standard (non-liposomal) doxorubicin or another 
medicine used for the condition.  
In the first study, the disease improved in 43% of women receiving either Myocet liposomal or 
standard doxorubicin, both combined with cyclophosphamide. In the second study, 26% of women 
receiving either Myocet liposomal alone or standard doxorubicin alone improved with treatment. In the 
third study, the disease improved in 46% of women receiving Myocet liposomal with cyclophosphamide 
compared with 39% of women receiving epirubicin (a medicine that works in the same way as 
doxorubicin) with cyclophosphamide.  
Heart problems occurred less often in patients receiving Myocet liposomal than in those receiving 
standard doxorubicin. 
What are the risks associated with Myocet liposomal? 
The most common side effects with Myocet liposomal (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
neutropenic fever (fever associated with low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), infection, 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts), anaemia (low 
red blood cell counts), leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), loss of appetite, nausea (feeling sick), 
vomiting, stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), mucositis (inflammation of the moist 
body surfaces), diarrhoea, hair loss, weakness, fever, pain and rigors (shaking chills). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Myocet liposomal, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Myocet liposomal authorised in the EU? 
Myocet liposomal has a lower risk of heart problems than conventional doxorubicin, while both 
medicines are similarly effective. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Myocet 
liposomal’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Myocet liposomal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Myocet liposomal have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Myocet liposomal are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Myocet liposomal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Myocet liposomal 
Myocet liposomal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 July 2000. 
Further information on Myocet liposomal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/myocet-liposomal.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019. 
Myocet liposomal0F (doxorubicin)  
EMA/631375/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
