EMA/58201/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000636 
EPAR summary for the public 
Myozyme 
alglucosidase alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Myozyme. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Myozyme. 
What is Myozyme? 
Myozyme is a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein). It contains the 
active substance alglucosidase alfa. 
What is Myozyme used for? 
Myozyme is used to treat patients who have Pompe disease, a rare inherited disorder. Patients with 
Pompe disease do not have enough of an enzyme called alpha-glucosidase. This enzyme normally 
breaks down sugar stored as glycogen into glucose that can be used for energy by the body’s cells. If 
the enzyme is not present, glycogen builds up in certain tissues, particularly the muscles, including the 
heart and diaphragm (the main breathing muscle under the lungs). The progressive build-up of 
glycogen causes a wide range of symptoms, including an enlarged heart, breathing difficulties and 
muscle weakness. The disease can appear at birth (the ‘infantile-onset’ form) but also later in life (the 
‘late-onset’ form).  
Because the number of patients with Pompe disease is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Myozyme was designated as an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 14 February 
2001. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Myozyme used? 
Myozyme treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in the management of 
patients with Pompe disease or other inherited diseases of the same type. 
Myozyme is given as an infusion of 20 mg per kilogram body weight given once every two weeks. The 
infusion should start slowly and then be gradually sped up as long as there are no signs of side effects 
caused by the infusion. 
How does Myozyme work? 
Myozyme is an enzyme replacement therapy. Enzyme replacement therapy provides patients with the 
enzyme they are lacking; in this case, alpha-glucosidase. The active substance in Myozyme, 
alglucosidase alfa, is a copy of human alpha-glucosidase, which is produced by a method known as 
‘recombinant DNA technology’: the enzyme is made by a cell that has received a gene (DNA) that 
makes it able to produce the enzyme. The replacement enzyme helps to break down glycogen and 
stops it building up abnormally in the cells. 
How has Myozyme been studied? 
Myozyme has been studied in two main studies involving a total of 39 babies and children up to the 
age of three and a half years with infantile-onset Pompe disease. These patients were compared with a 
‘historical comparison group’ of babies and young children with Pompe disease who had not received 
treatment and did not take part in the studies. The main measures of effectiveness were the number of 
patients who survived and the number who did not need a ventilator to help them breathe. 
Myozyme has also been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in one main study involving 90 
patients with late-onset disease. The main measures of effectiveness were the improvement in the 
distance the patients could walk in six minutes and in their ‘forced vital capacity’ (a measure of how 
well their lungs were working). The study lasted for up to 18 months. 
What benefit has Myozyme shown during the studies? 
In the first main study, which involved babies less than six months old, all 18 patients treated with 
Myozyme were alive at 18 months of age, and 15 of these did not need a ventilator to help them 
breathe. In contrast, only one of the 42 patients in the historical comparison group was alive at 18 
months of age. The results were confirmed in the other study, which involved children aged between 
six months and three and a half years. 
In late-onset disease, Myozyme was more effective than placebo at improving both the distance the 
patients could walk and their lung function over the course of the study. 
What is the risk associated with Myozyme? 
During the studies in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease, the most common side effects with 
Myozyme (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) were tachycardia (rapid heartbeat), flushing (redness), 
cough, tachypnoea (rapid breathing), vomiting, urticaria (itchy rash), rash, pyrexia (fever) and 
decreased oxygen saturation (low oxygen levels in the blood). In the study of late-onset disease, 
patients had many of the same side effects, but they were seen less often than in studies of infantile-
onset disease. Almost all of the side effects seen with Myozyme occurred during or just after the 
infusion and were mild or moderate. For the full list of all side effects reported with Myozyme, see the 
package leaflet. 
Myozyme  
EMA/58201/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Patients who receive Myozyme may develop antibodies (proteins that are produced in response to 
Myozyme). The effect of these antibodies on the safety and effectiveness of Myozyme is not yet clear. 
Myozyme must not be used in people who have had a life-threatening anaphylactic (severe allergic) 
reaction to alglucosidase alfa or any of the other ingredients, which could not be managed by giving 
the medicine at a slower infusion rate and reduced dose. 
Why has Myozyme been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Myozyme’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Myozyme? 
The company that makes Myozyme is putting a plan in place to ensure that Myozyme is used safely, 
mainly by monitoring how patients who receive Myozyme develop antibodies, by setting up a register 
open to all patients with Pompe disease, and by ensuring that doctors know about the reactions that 
patients may have to the infusion. 
Other information about Myozyme 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Myozyme to Genzyme Europe B.V. on 29 March 2006. The marketing authorisation is valid for an 
unlimited period. 
The full EPAR for Myozyme can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Myozyme, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Myozyme can be 
found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2014. 
Myozyme  
EMA/58201/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
