European Medicines Agency 
London, 28 October 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMEA/CHMP/631070/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Myozyme® 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
alglucosidase alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000636/II/0007 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
On  29  March  2006  the  European  Commission  granted  a  Marketing  Authorisation  for  Myozyme 
(alglucosidase alfa, EU/1/06/333/001-003). In support of the Marketing Authorisation (including data 
provided  during  the  procedure),  data  were  provided  from  two  ongoing  pivotal  clinical  studies, 
conducted in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease. Data were included on a limited number of 
patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease,  the  majority  of  which  were  treated  with  Myozyme  under 
various expanded access and compassionate use schemes. 
Following the MAA, Myozyme was approved for patients of all ages with a confirmed diagnosis of 
Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase deficiency). The indication section of the SPC contains additional 
information stating that the benefits of Myozyme in patients with late-onset Pompe disease have not 
been  established.  Genzyme  conducted  study  AGLU02704  and  committed  to  report  the  results  to 
CHMP  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  benefits  of  Myozyme  in  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease. 
The double-blind, placebo-controlled study AGLU02704 provides information on the safety, efficacy 
and pharmacokinetics of the treatment of patients with late-onset Pompe disease with Myozyme.  
The scope of this type II variation is to update the SPC and PL, based on the final clinical study report 
of  study  AGLU02704.  The  MAH  proposes  to  remove  the  sentence  from  section  4.1  stating  that  the 
benefits in patients with late-onset Pompe disease have not been established. The MAH proposes also 
to  update  the  SPC  with  the  efficacy,  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  information  in  late-onset  Pompe 
disease patients.  
Introduction 
The absence, or almost complete absence, of GAA in Pompe disease leads to the accumulation of high 
levels  of  glycogen  in  various  tissues,  particularly  cardiac  and  skeletal  muscle,  as  well  as  respiratory 
muscles, leading to generalised myopathy, cardiomyopathy and respiratory failure. Pompe disease can 
be considered as a spectrum of disease as the clinical presentation of GAA deficiency ranges from a 
rapidly fatal, usually in infants (the infantile-onset form) characterised by profound muscle weakness 
and  flaccidity  (often  referred  to  as  floppy  baby)  and  by  a  progressive  cardiomyopathy,  to  a  slowly 
progressive  late-onset  myopathy  in  juveniles  and  adults  where  involvement  of  skeletal  muscles 
dominates the clinical picture and respiratory insufficiency is frequent. In general, there is an inverse 
correlation between the amount of residual GAA activity and the severity of the disease.  
It  is  postulated  that  Myozyme,  a  recombinant  human  acid  alpha-glucosidase  (rhGAA),  will  restore 
lysosomal  GAA  activity  resulting  in  stabilisation  or  restoration  of  cardiac  and  skeletal  muscle 
(including  muscles  of  the  respiratory  system).  Infused  Myozyme  is  only  biologically  active  after 
lysosomal  uptake.  The  recommended  dosage  regimen  of  Myozyme  is  20  mg/kg  of  body  weight 
administered once every 2 weeks as an intravenous infusion. 
III.1  
Clinical aspects 
The early clinical development program for recombinant human acid α-glucosidase focused primarily 
on demonstration of safety and survival in patients with the rapidly progressive infantile-onset form of 
Pompe  disease  in  uncontrolled  and  historical-controlled  studies.  An  addendum  to  the  Summary  of 
Clinical  Pharmacology  and  Clinical  Efficacy  has  been  prepared  to  support  a  change  in  the  product 
labelling  for  Myozyme  to  include  data  from  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  treated  in  the 
placebo-controlled study AGLU02704. 
The following studies have been submitted: 
-  AGLU02704:  A  78-weeks  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  adaptive,  multicentre, 
multinational  study  of  the  safety,  efficacy  and  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  Myozyme  treatment  in  90 
patients with late-onset Pompe disease. 
-  AGLU03206: An Open-label extension study of Study AGLU02704 (extension interim results). 
Page 2 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  AGLU02303:  A  52-weeks  observational  study  in  61  patients  with  late-onset  disease  measuring 
progression of disease symptoms over the course of the study. 
II.1.1   Clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetic profile of recombinant human acid α-glucosidase (rhGAA) in patients with late-
onset Pompe disease was evaluated as part of the clinical programme in AGLU02704. 
Pharmacokinetics  were  characterised  by  compartmental  methods  under  a  nonlinear  mixed  effects 
model paradigm; 1-, 2-, and 3-compartment models were examined and the 2-compartment model was 
chosen  to  be  the  superior  model  on  the  basis  of  the  Likelihood  Ratio  Test,  goodness  of  fit,  and 
precision of the parameter estimates. Non-compartmental models were not used because they cannot 
adequately  account  for  the  variable-step  nature  of  the  Myozyme  infusion  and  lead  to  biased 
pharmacokinetic parameter estimates. 
Assessment of pharmacokinetics was performed on a subgroup of patients based on those study sites 
that  could  accommodate  pharmacokinetic  sampling  needs.  A 
total  of  1153  quantifiable 
pharmacokinetic observations were available from a subset of 34 patients (15 female, 19 male) from 4 
primary  sites  that  participated  in  serum  collection  for  this  purpose.  Data  from  2  patients  who  were 
randomized  to  the  Placebo  group  with  detectable  Myozyme  concentrations  were  removed  from  the 
dataset.  At the time of first infusion, the median age of patients in the pharmacokinetic subgroup was 
46.0 years (range: 20.7 to 70.0 years), weight was 77.4 kg (range: 42.5 to 118.8 kg), and the median 
dose of Myozyme was 1547 mg (range: 850 to 2376 mg). 
The following parameters were calculated or estimated for each patient on each visit and pooled across 
visits:  maximal concentration (Cmax), time to  maximal concentration (Tmax), total systemic clearance 
(CL),  inter-compartmental  clearance  (Q),  central  volume  of  distribution  (V1),  peripheral  volume  of 
distribution  (V2),  volume  of  distribution  at  steady-state  (Vss),  area  under  the  curve  from  time  0  to 
infinity (AUC[0-inf]), and half life. 
Blood samples for the measurement of plasma rhGAA activity were collected on Day 0, Week 12, and 
Week 52 at each of the following time-points: 0 (before the start of the infusion), 1 and 2 hours after 
the start of infusion, end of the infusion, and then 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, and 16 hours after the end 
of the infusion (with a 5-minute window for time-points after the start of infusion). 
The  following  table  gives  a  summary  of  the  rhGAA  pharmacokinetic  parameters  across  study  visits 
after intravenous infusion of 20 mg/kg to patients with late-onset Pompe disease.  
Page 3 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary Statistics for rhGAA Pharmacokinetic Parameters by Visit in Study AGLU02704 
Data shown are mean ± standard deviation 
According  to  the  results  for  rhGAA  pharmacokinetic  parameters  after  intravenous  infusion  of  20 
mg/kg to patients with late-onset Pompe disease, it appears that no difference in pharmacokinetics was 
observed across visits indicating that rhGAA pharmacokinetics were stable over time. 
According  to  the  data  obtained  from  PK  studies  in  the  original  dossier  of  the  MAA  (section  5.2  of 
SPC), the pharmacokinetics of Myozyme in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease who received 
doses  of  20  mg/kg  or  40  mg/kg,  Myozyme  were  dose  proportional  and  did  not  change  over  time. 
Indeed, after the first and sixth infusion of Myozyme, mean maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) 
ranged  from  178.2  to  263.7  g/mL  for  the  20  mg/kg  and  40  mg/kg  dose  groups  respectively.  The 
mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) ranged from 977.5 to 1872.5 ghr/mL 
for the 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg dose groups. Mean plasma clearance (CL) was 21.9 mL/h/kg and mean 
volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) was 66.2 mL/kg for both dose groups with small between-
subject  variability  of  15%  and  11%,  respectively.  Mean  plasma  elimination  half-life  (t1/2)  was  2.75 
hours  for  the  two  dose  groups.  Moreover,  no  difference  appeared  in  the  PK  profile  of  Myozyme  in 
late-onset patients compared to infantile-onset patients. 
In comparison to the results obtained from these 34 late-onset patients included in AGLU02704 who 
received  dose  of  20  mg/kg  Myozyme,  Cmax,  AUC  and  Vss  (respectively  ranged  from  349  to 
385g/mL;  from  2387  to  2700  g.hr/ml  and  from  69  to  70l)  are  higher  than  those  already  reported 
with 20 mg/kg or even 40mg/kg, while clearance (ranged from 8.1 to 8.9 ml/h/kg) is lower. It should 
also  be  highlighted  the  important  between-patient  variability  (i.e.  around  81%)  observed  for  Vss, 
resulting from the contribution of V2 which was not precisely estimated. 
At  last,  the  LS  mean  distribution  or  α-half-life  of  rhGAA  was  2.4  hours  with  a  between-patient 
variability of 10.4%. A much longer terminal phase was seen in which the elimination or LS mean β-
half-life  was  214  hours  with  a  between-patient  variability  of  134.3%;  the  large  between-patient 
variability can be explained by the imprecision of the estimates related to the peripheral compartment. 
Page 4 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the MAH, it seems likely that an elimination half-life of 214 hours is an overestimate of 
the true value. 
These differences may suggest an accumulation of rhGAA in these patients and the CHMP requested 
the  MAH  to  discuss  this  point.  According  to  the  MAH,  an  artefact  due  to  quantifiable  pre-dose 
concentrations  in  2  out  of  34  patients  may  explain  the  large  BSV  in  V2  in  adult-onset  patients. 
Moreover, the observed concentrations, less than the limit of quantification of the assay, may explain 
the reported mean β-half-life of 214 hours in adult-onset patients. These explanations were endorsed 
by CHMP. 
Anti-rhGAA IgG Antibody Testing 
Additional analyses included the effect of antibody titres on the rhGAA pharmacokinetic parameters 
CL  and  AUC(0-inf)  and  inhibitory  antibody  status  in  patients  the  first  time  they  tested  positive  for 
antibodies to rhGAA, and periodically thereafter. The titre for enzyme uptake inhibition was assessed 
if their inhibitory antibody status was positive. 
Antibody  formation  in  AGLU02704  was  assessed  in  a  2-step  process:  an  enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  screening  assessment  followed  by  a  confirmatory  radioimmuno-
precipitation (RIP) assay. 
All  evaluable  patients  (n=59)  in  the  Myozyme  group  in  study  AGLU02704  tested  positive  for  anti-
rhGAA IgG antibodies. The median time to seroconversion was 4 weeks (range of 4 to 12 weeks). Of 
these  patients,  39  (66.1%)  patients  seroconverted  by  the  Week  4  visit,  18  (30.5%)  patients 
seroconverted by the Week 8 visit, and the remaining 2 (3.4%) patients seroconverted by the Week 12 
visit. 
The median peak anti-rhGAA IgG antibody titre was 6,400 (range 200 to 819,200); 39 (66.1%) of the 
patients who seroconverted had a peak titre of 6,400 or less. The geometric mean titre increased to a 
maximum  of  2,925  at  Week  44  and  thereafter  declined.  The  median  titre  remained  steady  at  1,600 
throughout most of the study, i.e., from Week 8 to Week 64. The median last titre was 1,600 (range 
100 to 819,200); 35 (59.3%) of the patients who seroconverted had a last titre of 1,600 or less. 
IgG Inhibitory Antibody Testing 
After Week 78, archived serum samples of all IgG seropositive patients were tested, as appropriate, for 
the presence of IgG inhibitory antibodies to rhGAA. 
In vitro inhibitory antibody assays were performed to evaluate inhibition of enzyme activity or cellular 
uptake into fibroblasts for all seroconverted patients at the point of seroconversion and approximately 
quarterly  thereafter.  Based  on  the  samples  tested,  none  of  the  59  (0%)  evaluable  patients  tested 
positive for in vitro inhibition of enzyme activity. 
The  inhibition  of  uptake  assay  detects  the  presence  of  antibodies  that  can  interfere  with  the 
incorporation of fluorescently labelled rhGAA into human fibroblasts in vitro. 
Serum  samples  were  considered  positive  or  borderline  positive  for  inhibition  based  on  the  above 
mentioned  definitions.  However,  due  to  the  complexities  of  the  inhibition  uptake  assay,  and  the 
inconsistency of some of the inhibition of uptake results over time, it was also necessary to delineate 
clear  criteria  that  would  determine  whether  patients  were  considered  truly  positive  for  uptake 
inhibition. For the purposes of this analysis, patients were therefore classified  as positive for uptake 
inhibition if they demonstrated an end point titre of 40 (i.e., a serum sample positive for inhibition at 
dilution  1:10,  1:20  and  1:40)  or  greater  at  2  or  more  consecutive  time  points.  Patients  who 
demonstrated an end point titre of 40 or greater at only 1 time point or at non-consecutive time points, 
and patients who showed inhibition below the 1/40 dilution only, were classified as borderline positive 
for uptake inhibition. 
Page 5 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of  the  59  patients  tested,  10  (16.9%)  were  classified  as  positive,  8  (13.6%)  were  classified  as 
borderline  positive,  and  41  were  classified  as  negative  for  in  vitro  inhibition  of  enzyme  uptake. 
Patients  who  tested  positive  for  uptake  inhibition  had  a  mean  time  to  first  detection  of  inhibitory 
antibodies  of  36  weeks  after  first  infusion,  or  30  weeks  after  first  positive  IgG  titre.  Patients  who 
tested  borderline  positive  for  uptake  inhibition  had  a  mean  time  to  first  detection  of  inhibitory 
antibodies of 37 weeks after first infusion, or 32 weeks after first positive IgG titre. 
Patients classified with positive uptake inhibition assay results generally had higher median peak IgG 
titres  (102,400)  and  higher  median  last  IgG  titres  (72,408)  than  patients  who  remained  negative  for 
uptake inhibition (median peak IgG titre 3,200; median last IgG titre 400). Median IgG titres for the 
borderline  positive  inhibition  group  were  between  the  values  for  the  negative  and  positive  groups 
(median peak IgG titre 12,800; median last IgG titre 3,200). This pattern of data supports the concept 
of a difference between the classification as positive and borderline positive for uptake inhibition. The 
clinical significance of high IgG titres or positive uptake inhibition assay results is unclear, as some 
patients with high IgG titres responded well while others did not. 
A  small  number  of  patients  (N=5)  who  tested  positive  for  uptake  inhibition  and  who  had 
pharmacokinetic  samples  available  for  analysis  showed  a  statistically  significant  lower  AUC  and 
Cmax  and  higher  CL  compared  to  patients  who  tested  negative  for  uptake  inhibition.  In  patients 
positive for inhibitory antibodies, the LS mean AUC was 1951 µg*h/mL compared to 2547 µg*h/mL 
in patients negative for inhibitory antibodies (F=8.73, p = 0.0042). LS mean Cmax was 300 µg/mL in 
positive patients compared to 363 µg/mL in negative patients (F=4.55, p=0.0361), and LS mean CL 
was 813 mL/h in patients positive for inhibitory antibodies compared to 608 mL/h in patients negative 
for inhibitory antibodies (F=11.04, p=0.0014). This data needs to be interpreted with caution in light 
of the small number of patients included in the analysis. 
Plasma  and  urine  oligosaccharide  (Hex4)  levels  were  also  measured  in  study  AGLU02704  as  a 
pharmacodynamic  assessment.  An  analysis  of  the  oligosaccharide  data  and,  specifically,  the 
correlation  between  oligosaccharides  and  efficacy  endpoints  was  performed  and  is  described  in  the 
efficacy part.  
III.1.2  
Clinical efficacy 
III.1.2.1 
Main study 
Study  AGLU02704  is  a  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Multicenter,  Multinational,  Placebo-Controlled 
Study of the Safety, Efficacy, and Pharmacokinetics of Myozyme, Recombinant Human Acid alpha-
Glucosidase (rhGAA), Treatment in Patients with Late-Onset Pompe Disease 
Methods 
This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, adaptive, multicenter, multinational study of 
the safety, efficacy and PK of Myozyme treatment in 90 patients with late-onset Pompe disease. 
Study Participants  
Patients were initially enrolled at 8 primary investigational study centres (5 in the United States and 3 
in  Europe).  Twenty-two  local,  transfer  investigational  sites  were  set  up  to  allow  patients  to  have 
infusion visits closer to home after 6 months of treatment. Patients continued to return to the primary 
investigational site every 3 months for assessment. 
Main inclusion criteria 
-   The  patient  had  a  diagnosis  of  Pompe  disease  based  on  deficient  endogenous  GAA  activity  in 
cultured skin fibroblasts of ≤ 40% of the normal mean of the testing laboratory and 2 GAA gene 
mutations; 
-   The patient was ≥ 8 years of age at the time of enrolment; 
Page 6 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-   The  patient  was  able  to  ambulate  40  meters  (approximately  130  feet)  in  6  minutes  on  each  test 
performed on 2 consecutive days (use of assistive devices such as a walker, cane, or crutches, was 
permitted); 
-   The  patient  had  a  Forced  Vital  Capacity  (FVC)  of  ≥30%  and  <  80%  predicted  in  the  upright 
position 
-   The patient had a postural drop in FVC (litres [L]) of at least 10% from the upright to the supine 
position  
-  The  patient  had  proximal  muscle  weakness  in  the  lower  limbs  defined  as  unilateral  Quantitative 
Muscle Testing (QMT) of the knee extensors < 80% of the predicted value based on age, gender 
and body sise 
-   The patient was able to tolerate pulmonary function testing (PFT) and muscle testing in the supine 
position. (See exclusion criteria [1] and [2].); 
-   The patient had testable muscle in bilateral knee flexors and knee extensors, and testable muscle in 
bilateral elbow flexors and elbow extensors. (Using QMT, a muscle was defined as “not testable” if 
the  patient:  1)  had  a  contracture  >  90  degrees  that  prevented  being  able  to  assume  the  standard 
testing position, 2) was unable to follow directions, 3) had significant pain with resistance to the 
motion, or 4) was so weak that force could not be generated against the testing strap); 
-   The patient was able to provide reproducible muscle and pulmonary function test results (bilateral 
QMT measurements [% predicted] in knee extensors within 10% of the highest test value obtained 
from  the  same  side  of  the  body  on  2  consecutive  days  and  FVC  measurements  [in  litres]  within 
10% of the highest test value obtained in the upright position on 2 consecutive days); 
Main exclusion criteria 
-  The  patient  required  the  use  of  invasive  ventilatory support.  (Invasive  ventilation  was  defined  as 
any form of ventilatory support applied with the use of an endotracheal tube.); 
-   The  patient  required  the  use  of  non-invasive  ventilatory  support  while  awake  and  in  an  upright 
position. (Non-invasive ventilation was defined as any form of ventilatory support applied without 
the  use  of  an  endotracheal  tube.  For  example,  patients  receiving  positive-pressure  ventilation 
support  through  a  facemask  or  nose  piece  were  considered  as  ventilated  through  non-invasive 
methods.); 
-   The  patient  had  received  ERT  with  GAA  from  any  source,  had  used  an  investigational  product 
within 30 days prior to study enrolment, or was currently enrolled in another study which involved 
clinical evaluations, unless prior approval was given by the MAH; 
Treatments 
The approved commercial dose of 20 mg/kg/qow was selected for use in this study. Patients received 
IV infusions of either Myozyme (at a dose of 20 mg/kg qow) or placebo for 78 weeks (52 weeks in the 
original protocol). On the basis of a planned interim analysis, based on an adaptive design, which was 
pre-specified  in  the  protocol  to  determine  the  recommended  date  of  trial  termination  (blinded  to 
Genzyme), the duration of the study was extended from 52 weeks to 78 weeks. 
The  total  amount  of  Myozyme  or  placebo  administered  could  be  adjusted  approximately  every  12 
weeks to account for changes in body weight. 
The choice of posology and the step-wise administration for infusions comply with the posology and 
the method of administration recommended in the approved SPC. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The following efficacy assessments were performed at scheduled visits during the study: 
•   6MWT (distance walked); 
•   Pulmonary function testing (FVC  and forced inspiratory vital capacity [FIVC] in the upright and 
supine positions, and MIP and MEP in the upright position); 
•   Bilateral  QMT  assessments  (shoulder  adductors  [pectoralis],  elbow  flexors  [biceps],  elbow 
extensors  [triceps],  hip  adductors  [adductor  muscles],  knee  flexors  [hamstrings],  knee  extensors 
[quadriceps], and grip strength); 
•   MMT for 34 muscle groups; 
Page 7 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•   Functional activities assessment (time to walk 10 meters, time to climb 4 standard stairs, time to 
stand up from the supine position; functional arm score, and functional leg score); 
•   MOS SF-36 Health Survey, FSS, and the RIHS-9 in patients 14 years of age; 
•   Ventilator use time, non-invasive and invasive (using a patient diary). 
Mean  monthly  increase  in  6MWT  distance  and  FVC  upright  (%  predicted)  were  selected  as  co-
primary  efficacy  endpoints  for  the  study.  The  study  was  to  be  considered  to  have  met  its  primary 
efficacy  objective  if  a  statistically  significant  treatment  effect  of  Myozyme  over  placebo  was 
demonstrated in the 6MWT. FVC testing was to be performed if statistical significance was achieved 
upon analysis of 6MWT results. 
The following table summarises all efficacy endpoints from this study.  
Efficacy Endpoints 
Co-Primary Endpoints 
Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) 
Forced Vital Capacity, Upright (FVC) 
Muscle Strength Testing 
Quantitative Muscle Testing (QMT) 
   Lower limbs (knee flexors and extensors)1 
   Upper limbs (biceps and triceps)2 
   Pectorals, hip adductors, grip strength3 
Manual Muscle Testing (MMT)3 
Additional Pulmonary Function Testing 
Forced Inspiratory Vital Capacity(FIVC) 
Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP)2 
Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP)2 
Hours on Ventilation (invasive and non-invasive)3 
Functional Ability 
Functional Activities Assessment (FAA)3 
Timed Performance Tests3 
Surveys of General Health and Limitations 
SF-36 Health Survey (SF-36)1 
Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS)3 
Rotterdam 9-Item Handicap Scale3 
Late-Onset Pompe Disease Questionnaire3 
Pharmacodynamics 
Oligosaccharide levels3 
1 Secondary endpoint 
2 Tertiary endpoint 
3 Exploratory endpoint 
The assessment of efficacy is measured by the co-primary endpoints 6MWT and FVC. This choice is 
endorsed  by  the  CHMP  as  it  allows  to  assess  both  aspects  of  the  disease  expression  (disability  and 
respiratory failure,) is non-invasive and quite reproducible through the different centres.  
Randomisation 
Eligible patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive an IV infusion of 20 mg/kg Myozyme or 
placebo  matched  for  20  mg/kg  dose  volume,  qow.  To  reduce  the  likelihood  of  treatment  imbalance 
across factors that might influence results on the primary efficacy variables, patients were randomised 
using  a  minimisation  algorithm  with  the  goal  of  achieving  the  proposed  treatment  allocation  across 
sites,  Baseline  6MWT,  and  Baseline  FVC  upright. Random  treatment  assignment  was  accomplished 
using an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS). 
Page 8 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was conducted in a double-blind manner. The Investigator, other study site personnel, the 
patient and representatives of the MAH, with the exception of Genzyme CPRS, remained blinded to 
treatment assignment for the duration of the study. If a patient required invasive ventilation at any time 
during  the  study,  the  patient  could  be  placed  on  open-label  active  treatment  (rescue  therapy)  at  the 
discretion  of  the  Investigator  and  in  consultation  with  MAH’s  Medical  Monitor.  No  efficacy 
assessments would have been performed after rescue procedures. Prior treatment assignment (active or 
placebo) was to remain blinded for patients who required rescue therapy. 
As mentioned in the study report, almost half of the patients (42 patients) completed a 52-week Late-
Onset Pompe Observational Study (AGLU02303) prior to participating in the AGLU02704 study. By 
recognising  the  effects,  positive  as  well  as  negative,  blinding  of  these  patients  could  be  broken; 
therefore CHMP believed that an accurate double-blind is debatable. As a result the CHMP requested 
that  the  distribution  of  these  patients  by  groups  (Myozyme  or  placebo)  should  be  provided  and  the 
potential  impact  on  the  double-blind  maintenance  during  the  study.  The  MAH  responded  that 
everything had been done to preserve the blinding of people (investigator and patient) involved in this 
AGLU02704 study. Moreover, the distribution of patients from the AGLU02303 study was balanced 
between  groups  in  the  AGLU02704  study.  The  MAHs  responses  were  deemed  satisfactory  and  the 
issues have been resolved. 
Statistical methods 
The 6MWT (meters walked) and FVC upright (% predicted) were considered as co-primary efficacy 
endpoints.  The  primary  efficacy  analysis  of  the  co-primary  endpoints  was  performed  using  a  fixed 
sequence  testing  procedure  with  the  test  for  treatment  effect  on  6MWT  performed  first.  The  fixed 
sequence test procedure preserved an overall 5% level of significance by linking the test of the FVC 
upright endpoint to the results of the test for the 6MWT endpoint. The treatment effect on 6MWT was 
tested with a two-sided test at a 5% significance level. As the test for 6MWT was significant, a formal 
test  for  treatment  effect  on  FVC  upright  at  the  5%  significance  level  was  performed.  To  assess 
whether  treatment  with  Myozyme  had  a  beneficial  effect  on  functional  endurance  (as  measured  by 
performance  on  the  6MWT)  in  late-onset  Pompe  patients,  the  mean  monthly  increase  in  6MWT 
distance  in  the  group  of  patients  randomised  to  Myozyme  was  compared  to  that  of  the  group 
randomised  to  placebo.  The  effect  of  Myozyme  versus  placebo  on  change  in  meters  walked  for  the 
6MWT was analysed using a linear mixed effects model (LME). 
The observed 6MWT data (including baseline) was modelled with an LME model that included terms 
for  the  baseline  strata  used  in  the  minimisation  algorithm  for  treatment  randomisation  (baseline 
6MWT  and  FVC  stratification  levels  and  their  interaction),  time  and  treatment-by-time  interaction 
where time is the number of months between date of 6MWT assessment and date of first study drug 
infusion. There were random effects for the intercept and for the linear effect of time. The estimate of 
the  treatment-by-time  interaction  which  quantifies  the  linear  slope  differential  was  used  for  the 
hypothesis  testing  and  represents  the  average  monthly  increase  in  6MWT  distance  walked  if  treated 
with Myozyme compared to placebo. 
An analogous model was used for the analysis of the FVC Upright (% Predicted) endpoint. 
To  support  the  results  of  the  LME,  a  sensitivity  analysis  was  performed  with  Wilcoxon-Mann-
Whitney test and with analysis of covariance on change from Baseline to the last observed assessment 
time. 
The  analysis  of  covariance  model  (ANCOVA)  was  used  to  model  the  change  from  baseline  and, 
separately, relative change from baseline to the last observed assessment time. The model included the 
randomisation strata, the baseline observation and treatment indicator. The Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney 
test  was  applied  to  the  change  from  baseline  to  the  last  observed  assessment  time.  The  test  was 
performed stratified by randomisation strata. 
Page 9 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the data did not fit the model assumptions of the LME model, the supportive analyses described 
below that were planned as modifications and extensions of the LME model were replaced with the 
analogous  extensions  of  the  revised  LME  with  robust  variance  estimation  as  well  as  with  the 
analogous extensions of the generalised estimating equations (GEE) model.  
Missing Data Sensitivity Analysis 
A sensitivity analysis was performed to assess the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis to the 
missing data due to early study withdrawal. The sensitivity analysis included the following strategies 
for handling missing data: 
1.  Last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF):  The  missing  values  after  dropout  were  set  to  the  last 
observed value prior to dropout. 
2.  Multiple imputation (regression method): A monotonic missing data pattern is imputed via Markov 
Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) and the regression method for monotone missing data was applied to 
the monotonic missing data to impute the remaining missing observations. 
3.  Multiple  imputation  (propensity  score  method):  A  monotonic  missing  data  pattern  was  to  be 
imputed via MCMC and the propensity score method for monotone missing data was to be applied 
to the monotonic missing data to impute the remaining missing observations. 
Re-randomisation Inference 
A  re-randomisation  analysis  was  performed  in  addition  to  the  analysis  of  the  co-primary  endpoints 
described above. The re-randomisation analysis consisted of running the minimisation algorithm used 
for  the  treatment  assignments  10000  times.  The  algorithm  was  applied  to  the  observed  sequence  of 
enrolled patients with their respective clinical site/baseline covariate strata. After re-randomisation, the 
LME  model  for  the  6MWT  and  the  FVC  upright  were  applied  and  the  p-values  for  the  Myozyme 
treatment effect recorded. The resulting empirical distribution of the p-values for testing the 6MWT 
and,  separately,  for  testing  the  FVC  upright  Myozyme  treatment  effect  was  compared  with  the 
observed p-value obtained from the model used to perform the primary efficacy analysis. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  GEE  approach  highlighted  by  the  firm  was  not  planned  in  the  statistical 
analysis  plan.  But  ANCOVA  model  and  the  Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney  (WMW)  were  planned  as 
supportive analyses. So, if assumptions underlying the planned LME model do not hold, other planned 
models should be used instead. At this stage, the ANCOVA model cannot be considered as valid since 
the  analysis  of  the  residuals  distribution  is  lacking.  To  be  complete,  the  clinical  study  report  should 
contain  this  information  otherwise  one  does  not  know  if  these  results  can  be  taken  into  account. 
However, the results of the WMW test can be assessed since its validity is less questionable. The Type 
I error was 0.04999 after taking into account the adaptive design analysis. Furthermore, FVC testing 
was to be performed if statistical significance was achieved upon analysis of 6 MWT results. 
Eligible  patients  were  randomised  in  a  2:1  ratio  to  receive  Myozyme  or  placebo.  To  reduce  the 
likelihood of treatment imbalance across factors that might influence results on the primary efficacy 
variables,  patients  were  randomised  using  a  minimisation  algorithm  with  the  goal  of  achieving  the 
proposed  allocation  across  sites,  baseline  6MWT  and  baseline  FVC  upright.  Therefore  a  re-
randomisation  was  performed  to  assess  the  sensitivity  of  the  primary  efficacy  results  to  the 
randomisation  procedure  used  in  treatment  allocation.  As  previously  mentioned,  attention  should  be 
paid to the planned models, Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney as well as ANCOVA and the sensitivity of their 
results to the randomisation procedure should be assessed.  
The re-randomisation p-value for the planned models, both Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney and ANCOVA 
(for  the  clarity  of  the  clinical  study  report  and  assuming  that  this  model  is  shown  to  be  valid)  the 
CHMP requested more information. Following assessment of the MAH answers to the questions of the 
CHMP related to the ANCOVA model validity, it was concluded that the ANCOVA model cannot be 
considered as valid, therefore the focus should be on the WMW test results. The MAH performed two 
re-randomization tests and their results are concordant with p-values of 0.038 and 0.033 for an initial 
p-value of 0.028. The CHMP agreed with the justifications and the point is considered as resolved. 
Page 10 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients Demographic 
Almost half of the patients (42 patients) completed a 52-Week Late-Onset Pompe Observational Study 
(AGLU02303) prior to participating in the AGLU02704 study.  
One  hundred  and  eight  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  were  eligible  for  screening  for 
participation in the AGLU02704 study. 18 patients were not enrolled (10 patients failed to meet the 
enrolment criteria upon screening, 5 patients did not proceed to screening based on their pre-screening 
results; 2 patients were not screened as the site was already fully enrolled and 1 patient decided not to 
participate prior to screening). A total of 90 patients were successfully randomised into the study and 
received  treatment,  60  patients  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and  30  patients  in  the  Placebo 
treatment group. 
During the study, 33 (55.0%) of the 60 patients in the Myozyme treatment group and 13 (43.3%) of 
the 30 patients in the Placebo treatment group transferred from a primary investigational site to local 
treatment sites. 
Nine patients discontinued without completing the study, including 5 (8.3%) patients in the Myozyme 
treatment  group  (1  chose  to  pursue  treatment  with  commercial  Myozyme  therapy,  2  experienced 
serious  hypersensitivity  reactions,  1  died  at  74.0  weeks  for  reasons  unrelated  to  the  treatment  and 1 
chose to discontinue for personal reasons) and 4 (13.3%) patients in the Placebo treatment  group (3 
chose  to  pursue  treatment  with  commercial  Myozyme  therapy,  1  experienced  ongoing  head 
discomfort). 
Eighty-one (90.0%) of the 90 patients enrolled successfully completed the study, i.e., 55 (91.7%) of 
the  60  patients  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and  26  (86.7%)  of  the  30  patients  in  the  Placebo 
treatment group. The proportion of patients completing the study was comparable across regions, with 
51 (87.9%) of the 58 patients in the U.S. and 30 (93.8%) of the 32 non-U.S. patients completing the 
study. 
Patients  who  completed  treatment  under  this  protocol  could  be  eligible  for  participation  in  an  open-
label extension study (AGLU03206, LOTS). 
It  should  be  noted  that  some  patients  who  did  not  meet  the  reliability  criteria  on  the  FVC  or  QMT 
assessments  on  first  screening  could  be  re-screened  for  inclusion.  As  a  result,  14  of  the  90  patients 
were  randomised  after  a  second  screening,  of  whom  10  patients  were  randomised  to  the  Myozyme 
treatment group and 4 patients were randomised to the Placebo treatment group.  
It  should  also  be  noted  that  half  of  patients  transferred  from  a  primary  investigational  site  to  local 
treatment sites during the study. 
The  full  analysis  population  includes  all  90  patients  randomised  and  treated,  60  patients  in  the 
Myozyme treatment group and 30 patients in the Placebo treatment group. 
The  per  protocol  population  (n  =  78)  as  defined  in  the  SAP  included  52  patients  in  the  Myozyme 
treatment  group  and  26  patients  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group  who  received  at  least  80%  of  the 
scheduled infusions, did not miss 3 or more consecutive infusions, remained in the study for the full 
78 weeks, and met all inclusion/exclusion criteria for the study. 
Patient Demographics and Baseline data 
Patient Demographics and Baseline Characteristics 
The great majority of patients were Caucasian. The Myozyme treatment group was 57% male while 
the Placebo treatment group was only 37% male.  
The  randomisation  scheme  resulted  in  both  treatment  groups  having  similar  proportions  of  patients 
from  each  of  the  4  predefined  strata  (a  combination  of  6MWT  and  percent  predicted  FVC),  with 
higher proportion of patients able to ambulate ≥300m. Overall, 23 patients in the Myozyme treatment 
Page 11 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group  (38%)  used  a  walking  device  at  Baseline,  compared  to  16  patients  in  the  Placebo  treatment 
group  (53%)  This  proportion  of  patients  using  a  walking  device  at  baseline  appears  larger  in  the 
placebo group. This could impact on 6MWT changes observed when comparing the two groups. The 
MAH should comment. The mean (± SD) distance walked at Baseline was similar among both groups 
(332.20 ± 126.69 m in the Myozyme treatment group and 317.93 ± 132.29 m in the Placebo treatment 
group)  The use of a walking device by some patients must be pointed out. Use of a walking device 
may  have  changed  in  some  patients  throughout  the  study  period and  across  repeated  assessments  of 
6MWT.  During  the  procedure  the  MAH  provided  further  details  on  the  use  (and  type)  of  walking 
devices by patients in the study and on the relationship between walking devices and response. CHMP 
considered this issue to be resolved.  
The mean (± SD) percent predicted FVC upright at Baseline was similar among both groups (55.43 ± 
14.44% in the Myozyme treatment group and 53.00 ± 15.66% in the Placebo treatment group). Similar 
proportions of patients in both groups used respiratory support at Baseline (33% Myozyme treatment 
group, 37% placebo treatment group). 
Results 
Co-primary endpoints 
Six-Minute Walk Test 
Table Change in Distance Walked in Six-Minute Walk Test 
Page 12 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-values of change of six minute walk test (total distance) from baseline- full analysis population 
(p-values are from the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney statistic stratified by randomisation strata) 
Weeks 
Week 12 
Week 26 
Week 38 
Week 52 
Week 64 
Week 78 
Last Observed 
Value 
N 
88 
87 
84 
83 
80 
78 
89 
Change (p-values) –
Myozyme v. Placebo 
0.0079 
0.0059 
0.0039 
0.0926 
0.0749 
0.0992 
0.0283 
Mean Absolute and % Predicted 6MWT Distance Walked at Baseline and Last Observation 
As mentioned already in the statistical methods, the GEE approach was not planned in the statistical 
analysis plan. As assumptions underlying the planned LME model do not hold, other planned models, 
i.e.  ANCOVA  model  and  the  Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney  planned  as  supportive  analyses,  should  be 
used instead. Since the ANCOVA model cannot be considered as valid, the results of the WMW test 
can  be  assessed  since  its  validity  is  less  questionable.  The  analysis  of  the  6  MWT  change  from 
baseline  to  last  observed  visit  performed  with  the  non-parametric  WMW  test  stratified  by 
randomisation strata is statistically significant (p-value of the difference between groups = 0.0283). 
The  CHMP  requested  that  sensitivity  analysis  to  missing  data  of  the  results  of  the  planned  models, 
Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney and ANCOVA (for the clarity of the clinical study report and assuming that 
this model is shown to be valid), should be performed by the MAH. The MAH submitted the results 
and they were statistically significant with p<0.05. 
Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) 
Page 13 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table FVC Upright (% Predicted) 
 Estimated Mean % Predicted FVC at Baseline and Last Observation 
Subgroup Analyses 
In  order to  evaluate  the  consistency  of  the  observed  treatment  effect  on  6MWT  and on  % predicted 
upright FVC results, the treatment effect was estimated in prospectively defined subgroups defined by 
the  following  Baseline  characteristics:  gender,  age,  duration  of  disease  symptoms,  use  of  walking 
device, noninvasive ventilator use, 6MWT results and % predicted upright FVC, randomisation strata 
and GAA activity.  
The study was not powered to detect a statistically significant treatment difference in these subgroups. 
Most  subgroup  analyses  of  the  6  MWT,  as  well  as  for  FVC  upright,  change  from  baseline  to  last 
observed visit are not statistically significant, even if the results are in favour to the Myozyme group. 
Thus  there  is  a  trend  toward  improvement  in  distance  walked  and  in  FVC  outcomes  in  Myozyme 
patients and in particular in the subset “6MWT≥300m” and/or “FVC≥55%”, suggesting that Myozyme 
could have more of a benefit in late-onset patients at a time in the disease course when they are mildly 
to moderately affected.  
The  MAH  was  requested  by  the  CHMP  to  discuss  the  possibility  of  excluding  the  severely  affected 
late-onset patients from the indication.  
In  their  responses  the  MAH  have  replied  that  as  part  of  the  inclusion  criteria  in  the  LOTS  study, 
subjects had to demonstrate quantifiable evidence of lower extremity muscle weakness (as measured 
Page 14 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by QMT) and respiratory muscle weakness (as measured by pulmonary function testing) at Baseline. 
While  all  90  patients  enrolled  in  LOTS  exhibited  significant  proximal  limb  and  respiratory  muscle 
weakness at Baseline relative to normal, healthy individuals, significant heterogeneity existed within 
the study population.  
On average, patients were only able to walk a distance approximately 50% that of their healthy peers 
in the 6MWT, but performance on this test ranged from 41 meters to 626 meters across all patients (6-
99% predicted). Thus, some patients were significantly impaired while other patients’ walk distances 
were  comparable  to  normal,  healthy  individuals.  Similarly,  mean  FVC  was  also  approximately  50% 
that of healthy individuals, indicating that, on average, pulmonary impairment was in the “moderately 
severe”  range  (50-59%  predicted)  based  on  American  Thoracic  Society  (ATS)  criteria  for  the 
assessment  of  restrictive  respiratory  disease.  However,  FVC  results  indicated  a  broad  spectrum  of 
respiratory  involvement  with  values  from  30-78%  of  predicted.  This  diversity  in  the  clinical 
presentation  of  Pompe  disease  (as  measured  by  6MWT  and  FVC)  among  LOTS  patients  was  not 
unexpected,  and  is  consistent  with  the  broad  spectrum  of  clinical  symptoms  and  variable  rate  of 
progression previously observed in patients with late-onset Pompe disease. 
A positive treatment effect was observed in the cohort of 90 patients and neither Baseline 6MWT nor 
%  predicted  FVC  were  found  to  be  significant,  independent  predictors  of  treatment  response.  The 
interaction between 6MWT and treatment (p=0.596) and % FVC and treatment (p=0.290) were both 
tested to be non-significant, which indicates that a difference between subgroups is unlikely. 
It should be noted that the study was not designed and planned to perform subgroup analyses for 
detecting significant differences between Myozyme and placebo within subgroups.  
Apart from the broad spectrum of severity of disease as evaluated in study AGLU02704, Genzyme has 
also investigated treatment in a separate, even more severely affected population of late-onset patients, 
in study AGLU03105. This study was a Follow Up Measure, for which the final CSR was submitted 
to CHMP in December 2007. In the assessment report for this study, the Rapporteur indicated that the 
results in patients with severe late-onset Pompe disease in this study could be assessed in light of the 
results of study AGLU02704. 
According  to  the  inclusion  criteria  for  study  AGLU03105  patients  enrolled  were  dependent  on  a 
wheelchair  for  mobility  (unable  to  move  without  aids  such  as  walking  frame,  stick,  crutches), 
presented  with  diaphragmatic  dysfunction  (defined  by  at  least  2  out  of  3  of  the  following  criteria: 
orthopnea,  vital  capacity  below  50%,  paradoxical  respiration  detected  on  measurement  of  Pdi),  and 
required  invasive  ventilation  from  5  to  23  years  (defined  as  the  fitting  of  a  tracheotomy  tube).  One 
patient  needed  non-invasive  ventilation  (defined  as  any  form  of  ventilatory  support  assisted  by  a 
facemask or nose piece) day and night (≥12 h/24 h). Four patients completed the 52-week treatment 
period  of  the  study,  and  one  patient  died  one  day  after  the  infusion  at  Week  50  due  to  tracheal 
haemorrhage assessed as not related to Myozyme. 
Results  of  study  AGLU03105  showed  that  after  12  months  of  treatment  no  significant  deterioration 
was  observed  in  4  of  5  patients,  and  some  patients  experienced  minor  improvements  in  pulmonary 
function, muscle strength and quality of life: 2 patients moderately increased their sitting Slow Vital 
Capacity (SVC) at week 52, 3 patients improved sitting and proximal  motor function and 2 patients 
improved standing and transfer. 
Patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  typically  show  progressive  clinical  decline  if  untreated, 
including a significant increase in the number of hours of respiratory daily support and a significant 
decrease in muscle function activity. 
Finally,  the  MAH  stressed  out  the  importance  of  the  stabilization  of  disease  progression  in  patients 
with more progressed disease will have a life-changing effect for these chronically affected patients, 
even if they would improve less on 6MWT or % predicted FVC. This is particularly true for severely 
affected  patients.  In  view  of  the  above,  Genzyme  is  of  the  opinion  that  severely  affected  late-onset 
Page 15 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pompe  disease  patients  should  not  be  excluded  from  the  treatment  indication,  thereby  denying  the 
option of stabilization of disease for this group of patients. 
The  CHMP  commented  that  even  if  the  study  was  not  designed  and  planned  to  perform  subgroup 
analyses  for  detecting  significant  differences  between  Myozyme  and  placebo  within  subgroups,  the 
results following that analysis indicate a more marked effect of Myozyme on 6MWT distance walked 
and  on  %  predicted  FVC  (see  corresponding  95%CI)  in  subgroups  of  patients  less  affected  (i.e. 
baseline 6MWT ≥ 300m or baseline FVC≥55%). 
Regarding the comments on the responder analysis according to different thresholds, CHMP felt the 
justification of the MAH was limited. 
The MAH reminded the results of the study AGLU03105 in severely affected patients with late-onset 
form, which could be assessed in light of the results of study AGLU02704. Nevertheless, it should be 
highlighted  that  the  very  limited  number  of  patients  (5)  and  the  lack  of  comparative  data  precluded 
drawing any conclusions and therefore the results of the study AGLU03105 cannot be considered as 
corroborative data. 
Responder Analysis Based on 6MWT and FVC 
In order to fully evaluate the meaningfulness of the results of the co-primary endpoint, a “responder” 
analysis was conducted that addressed both improvement and prevention of decline based on 6MWT 
and  FVC  outcomes.  Based  on  previously  published  work  by  Redelmeier  (Redelmeier,  1997,  Am  J 
Respir  Crit  Care),  3  responder  thresholds  were  used  for  6MWT:  1)  54  metres  (the  estimated 
threshold),  2)  37  metres  (the  lower  bound  of  the  95%  confidence  interval  [CI]  of  the  estimated 
threshold), and 3) 30 metres (the difference in 6MWT that result in patients feeling ‘a little bit better’). 
Although the clinical significance of changes in FVC for subjects with restrictive pulmonary disease 
have  not  been  established  in  the  literature,  the  American  Thoracic  Society  (ATS)  has  defined  the 
clinically  significant  proportional  changes  in  FVC  %  predicted  in  healthy  subjects  as  a  within-day 
change  of  5%,  between-weeks  change  of  11-12%,  and  yearly  change  of  15%  above  or  below  the 
patient’s  baseline  value.  These  change  thresholds  for  6MWT  and  FVC  were  used  to  conduct  the 
responder analysis. 
The  proportions  of  patients  improving  or  declining  using  various  thresholds  for  absolute  change  in 
6MWT and for proportional change (from Baseline) in % predicted FVC are given in table below.  
Patients  Improving  or  Deteriorating  Beyond  Various  Thresholds  for  6MWT  and  %  Predicted 
FVC 
1 Calculated using the methods of Guyatt et al (1998). 
Regarding  a  possible  analysis  including  different  thresholds,  for  6MWT,  the  numerically  smallest 
benefit  of  Myozyme  versus  Placebo  is  actually  associated  with  the  lowest  threshold,  although  the 
differences between 14.9, 19.3 and 16.2% are fairly minor. And for FVC, there is basically no major 
difference between the 5% and 10% thresholds. Therefore, there is little indication that the benefit of 
Myozyme depends on the threshold used. 
Page 16 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quantitative Muscle Testing (QMT) 
The  mean  (±  SD)  QMT  Leg  Score  at  Baseline  was  37.69  ±  18.88%  predicted  in  the  Myozyme 
treatment group and 32.49 ± 18.24% predicted in the Placebo treatment group indicating significantly 
diminished leg strength compared to a normative sample of healthy individuals of similar age, gender, 
and  BMI.  At  the  last  available  observation,  the  mean  QMT  Leg  Score  had  increased  to  39.05  ± 
21.83% predicted in the Myozyme treatment group and decreased to 30.40 ± 20.54% predicted in the 
Placebo treatment group. The ANCOVA estimated mean QMT Leg Score increased by 1.18 ± 1.13% 
predicted in the Myozyme treatment group and decreased by 2.00 ± 1.59% predicted in the Placebo 
treatment  group,  for  a  treatment  effect  of  3.18%  predicted  and  a  treatment  difference  in  relative 
change from Baseline of 12.44% The estimated treatment effect is not statistically significant using the 
LME with the model-based variance estimator (P = 0.2615), and similar results are reached using the 
robust variance estimator and GEE (P = 0.1387 and 0.1293, respectively). The ANCOVA  estimated 
Myozyme  treatment  effect  is  3.18%  (P  =  0.1093),  with  the  WMW  test  yielding  P  =  0.0224.  In 
addition,  the  treatment  difference  in  relative  change  from  baseline  is  12.44%  (P  =  0.0051)  using 
ANCOVA. 
The  mean  (±  SD)  QMT  Arm  Score  at  Baseline  was  55.89  ±  20.38%  predicted  in  the  Myozyme 
treatment group and 56.88 ± 18.17% predicted in the Placebo treatment group indicating significantly 
diminished arm strength compared to a normative sample of healthy individuals of similar age, gender, 
and  BMI.  At  the  last  available  observation,  the  mean  QMT  Arm  Score  had  increased  to  60.88  ± 
21.74% predicted in the Myozyme treatment group and increased to 58.30 ± 20.85% predicted in the 
Placebo treatment group. The ANCOVA estimated mean QMT Arm Score increased by 5.05 ± 1.57% 
predicted  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and  increased  by  1.47  ±  2.21%  predicted  in  the  Placebo 
treatment group, for a treatment effect of 3.57 ± 2.71% predicted and a treatment difference in relative 
change from Baseline of 9.35%. The estimated treatment effect is not statistically significant using the 
LME with the model-based variance estimator (P = 0.1812), and similar results are reached using the 
robust variance estimator and GEE (P = 0.1699 and 0.1859, respectively). The ANCOVA  estimated 
Myozyme treatment effect of 3.57% is not significant (P = 0.1917), with the WMW test yielding P = 
0.0712.  In  addition,  the  treatment  difference  in  relative  change  from  baseline  of  9.35%  is  not 
significant using either the ANCOVA or WMW test (P = 0.1094 and P = 0.0948, respectively). 
Additional Pulmonary Function Testing 
i)  Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) and Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP) 
The  mean  MIP  score  at  Baseline  was  40.04%  of  predicted  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and 
42.57% of predicted in the Placebo treatment group indicating significant inspiratory muscle weakness 
compared  to  age/gender-matched  healthy  individuals.  The  ANCOVA  estimated  mean  MIP  % 
predicted  score  increased  by  3.48%  predicted  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and  decreased  by 
0.35%  predicted  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group,  for  a  treatment  effect  of  3.83%  predicted  (P  = 
0.0895). The estimated treatment effect is statistically significant using the LME with the model-based 
variance estimator (estimated difference in monthly change in MIP = 0.28 % predicted; P = 0.0344). 
The  mean  MEP  score  at  Baseline  also  showed  significant  expiratory  muscle  weakness  and  was 
approximately  30%  of  predicted  in  the  Myozyme  and  Placebo  treatment  groups.  The  ANCOVA 
estimated  mean  MEP  %  predicted  score  increased  by  3.24%  predicted  in  the  Myozyme  treatment 
group and decreased by 0.56% predicted in the Placebo treatment group, for a statistically significant 
treatment effect of 3.80% predicted (P = 0.0352). 
Forced Vital Capacity-Supine 
ii) 
At screening, patients were required to demonstrate a drop in vital capacity of at least 10% from the 
upright to the supine position, which suggested the presence of diaphragmatic weakness or paralysis. 
The  mean  FVC  supine  score  at  Baseline  was  37.32%  of  predicted  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group 
and  35.50%  of  predicted  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group,  indicating  significant  respiratory  muscle 
weakness.  Over  time  the  FVC  supine  %  predicted  of  patients  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group 
remained  stable,  while  the  FVC  supine  %  predicted  of  patients  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group 
progressively declined, for a Myozyme treatment effect of 2.50% predicted and a treatment difference 
in relative change from Baseline of 6.0%. 
Page 17 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
iii)  Ventilatory Support Use 
An exploratory objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of Myozyme treatment on respiratory 
function as measured by ventilation use. At Baseline, 20 (33.3%) of the 60 patients in the Myozyme 
treatment group and 11 (36.7%) of the 30 patients in the Placebo treatment group were using nocturnal 
non-invasive  ventilatory  support,  primarily  bi-level  positive  airway  pressure  (BiPAP)  or  continuous 
positive airway pressure (CPAP) support. Patients who utilised any form of ventilatory support during 
the study completed a bi-weekly ventilator diary during the study. 
Based on these diary data, at the last observation 21 (35.0%) patients in the Myozyme treatment group 
and  15  (50.0%)  patients  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group  had  used  ventilatory  support,  of  whom  3 
(5.0%)  patients  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and  4  (13.3%)  patients  in  the  Placebo  treatment 
group  initiated  non-invasive  ventilator  use  during  the  study.  No  patients  in  either  treatment  group 
became invasively ventilated during the study, the condition specified for consideration to be placed 
on rescue therapy with open-label Myozyme. 
Additional Endpoints 
i)  Manual Muscle Testing 
In  addition  to  QMT,  muscle  strength  in  34  muscle  groups  throughout  the  body  was  evaluated  by  a 
trained  clinician  at  the  Screening/Baseline  visit  and  subsequent  evaluations  using  manual  muscle 
testing  (MMT).  The  grading  system  of  0  (no  palpable  muscle  activity)  to  5  (normal  strength)  was 
converted to MMT scores ranging from 0 to 10, which were summed to generate a total MMT score of 
upper  and  lower  body  strength.  A  total  of  34  muscle  groups  (16  upper  body,18  lower  body)  were 
assessed,  with  a  maximum  total  MMT  score  of  340  (160  upper  body;  180  lower  body).  The  mean 
MMT Total Score at Baseline was 256.72 in the Myozyme treatment group and 244.27 in the Placebo 
treatment  group,  indicating  significantly  diminished  overall  body  strength.  At  the  last  available 
observation,  the  mean  MMT  Total  Score  had  decreased  slightly  to  254.93  ±  35.90  in  the  Myozyme 
treatment group and remained consistent in the Placebo treatment group at 244.00 ± 30.26 indicating 
no  clinically  meaningful  change  in  total  body  strength  as  measured  by  MMT  for  either  treatment 
group. 
Timed Performance Tests 
ii) 
Timed performance tests were performed by a subset of patients who (at baseline) were able to safely 
complete  the  tests  in  the  judgment  of  the  Investigator  (33  [55.0%]  Myozyme  patients,  12  [40.0%] 
Placebo). Although the number of patients tested decreased over time, the time to achieve a standing 
position  from  supine  decreased  by  approximately  2  seconds  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  and 
increased  by  between  2  and  3  seconds  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group,  with  an  apparent  separation 
between the two. No change was observed for the assessment of the timed 10 metre walk test or the 
time required to climb 4 standard stairs. 
iii)  Questionnaires of General Health and Physical Limitation 
Self-administered  questionnaires  assessed  changes  in  health-related  quality  of  life  (SF-36),  level  of 
fatigue  (Fatigue  Severity  Scale),  and  functional  ability  and  handicap  level  (Rotterdam  9-Item 
Handicap Scale). 
The  mean  Physical  Component  Summary  scores  (PCS)  of  the  SF-36  at  baseline  (Myozyme  34.33, 
Placebo 34.91) were well below that of the general U.S. population (mean PCS of 50.00), indicating 
significantly  diminished  physical  health  status  in  the  study  population.  There  was  minimal  change 
from Baseline to last available visit for the PCS score, as well as all 8 subscales of the PCS score, in 
both treatment groups. No statistically significant or clinically meaningful treatment differences were 
found between the two treatment groups. 
Mean  changes  from  baseline  in  Fatigue  Severity  Scale  score  and  Rotterdam  9-Item  Handicap  Scale 
score  were  minimal  and  not  clinically  meaningful.  The  high  Rotterdam  Handicap  score  at  baseline 
relative to the maximum total score suggested that this patient cohort was not significantly impaired in 
the areas assessed by this instrument, thereby leaving little room to observe treatment-related change. 
iv)  Efficacy Outcomes by Oligosaccharide Levels 
Page 18 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean  urine  oligosaccharide  levels  (Hex4)  were  characteristically  elevated  at  Baseline  in  both 
treatment  groups  (Myozyme  11.94  mmol/molecule  of  creatinine  [mol  Cr];  Placebo  14.61  mmol/mol 
Cr). Mean change from Baseline in urine Hex4 levels showed a decrease in absolute value at Week 78 
by -4.02 mmol/mol Cr in the Myozyme treatment group, while there was little change in the Placebo 
treatment group (+0.66 mmol/mol Cr). 
To  explore  the  correlation  between  Hex4  and  respiratory  and  proximal  muscle  strength,  analyses  of 
change  from  baseline  in  6MWT,  FVC  upright,  and  QMT  leg  score  were  performed  with  patients 
stratified by Baseline urine Hex4 level above and below the Baseline median urine Hex4 level for the 
full population (9.85 mmol/mol Cr). 
Summary of 6MWT, FVC, and QMT-Leg Score Results by Baseline Urine Hex4 Level in Study 
AGLU02704 
¹ Median urine Hex4 level for the full population was 9.85 mmol/mol Cr (n = 89). 
² Percentages are based on the total number of patients with a Baseline urine Hex4 value. 
Regarding the secondary and tertiary endpoints, if change in QMT leg score % predicted from baseline 
to last observation can be considered as better in the Myozyme treatment group than in the Placebo 
treatment group (MWM p-value = 0.0224), neither the other secondary endpoint result (change in SF-
36  PCS  from  baseline  to  last  observation)  nor  the  tertiary  endpoints  results  (change  in  MIP  % 
predicted  from  baseline  to  last  observation,  change  in  MEP  %  predicted  from  baseline  to  last 
observation  and  change  in  QMT  arm  score  %  predicted  from  baseline  to  last  observation)  were 
statistically significant. 
Regarding  the  urinary  Hex4  levels  there  appeared  to  be  a  more  favourable  outcome  among  patients 
with lower urinary Hex4 levels at Baseline in both treated and untreated patients. This correlation was 
discussed  before  and  considering  the  similar  observations  reported  throughout  the  studies.  The 
prognostic value of urinary Hex4 levels for motor and respiratory outcome was further dicussed by the 
MAH.  
In their responses the MAH suggested that late-onset patients with a lower (below the median; 9.85 
mmol/molCr)  urinary  Hex-4  level  at  Baseline,  appear  to  show  a  trend  for  a  better  response  to 
Myozyme  on  the  6MWT  than  patients  with  a  urinary  Hex-4  level  at  Baseline  above  the  median 
(6MWT  change  from  Baseline  to  last  observed  value  of  +38,56  m  and  -1.33m,  respectively). 
Similarly,  placebo  patients  with  a  urinary  Hex-4  above  the  median  also  showed  a  decline  of  the 
6MWT  distance  walked  over  the  course  of  the  study  while  placebo  patients  with  a  urinary  Hex-4 
below  the  median  showed  an  improvement  of  the  6MWT  distance  walked  (-12.68m  and  +8.64m, 
respectively).  This  apparent  predictive  value  for  response  to  treatment,  however,  is  limited  to  the 
6MWT, as the same trend was not seen in other outcome measures. 
The  difference  in  6MWT  response  between  patients  with  a  high  versus  a  low  urinary  Hex-4  at 
Baseline may be due to chance, as it is highly improbable that urinary Hex-4 at Baseline would only 
Page 19 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have a relationship with the efficacy of Myozyme when measured by improvement of 6MWT, but not 
when measured by % predicted FVC. 
The CHMP agreed with the MAH that a correlation has not been fully demonstrated between level of 
urinary  Hex-4  and  outcome.  Of  course,  the  value  of  such  a  parameter  will  not  lead  to  a  clinical 
decision to treat or not, but may be considered as supportive to assess the response to treatment. The 
CHMP  recommended  that  the  determination  of  this  parameter  should  be  maintained  for  patients 
treated  with  Myozyme.  The  MAH  in  their  responses  to  this  question  in  September  2009  have 
committed to further explore the urinary Hex-4 parameter in the Pompe Registry and report annually 
to the CHMP. 
III.1.2.2. 
Supportive data 
Study AGLU02303 
A Prospective, Observational Study in Patients with Late-Onset Pompe Disease. This was a multi-
center, multi-national, observational study designed to collect prospective data in patients with late-
onset Pompe disease. Those patients who met all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion 
criteria went on to complete additional evaluations at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. The duration of the 
observational period was 12 months. 
The  objective  of  this  observational  study  was  to  collect  prospective,  observational  data  on  patients 
with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  in  order  to:  characterise  the  clinical  presentation  of  late  onset  Pompe 
disease;  determine  the  intra-  and  inter-patient  variability  for  the  planned  study  assessments  in  late-
onset Pompe disease; assist in determining clinical efficacy endpoints for future clinical studies; and 
evaluate oligosaccharides as a biochemical marker of disease severity. 
Number of patients enrolled was 61 and analysed 58. 
Criteria for evaluation: 
This  was  an  observational  study;  therefore,  no  efficacy  assessments  were  performed.  The  following 
study assessments were performed: muscle strength/function assessments including the 6 minute walk 
test  (6MWT;  performed  only  at  the  12-month  evaluation),  timed  functional  activities  tests  (walk  10 
meters, climb 4 stairs, rise from supine to stand), leg and arm functional testing, manual muscle testing 
(MMT),  and  quantitative  muscle  testing  (QMT);  pulmonary  function  testing  (PFT;  including 
spirometry  for  assessment  of  vital  capacity  and  manometry  for  assessment  of  respiratory pressures); 
questionnaires including a late-onset Pompe Disease Questionnaire developed by the Sponsor as well 
as pain, fatigue, respiratory and quality of life questionnaires; spine x-ray; arterial blood gas (ABG); 
polysomnography; physical examination; vital signs; height and weight; concomitant medications and 
therapies;  standard  laboratory  testing  including  serum  chemistry,  hematology  and  urinalysis 
measurements; analysis of GAA gene mutations, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) marker allele 
status, and GAA activity in skin fibroblasts and blood; and analysis of blood and urine oligosaccharide 
levels. In addition, interval events (IEs; defined as any untoward signs or symptoms experienced by 
the patient that were not considered to be related to study procedures) were monitored from time of 
informed  consent  through  study  completion.  Safety  assessments  were  based  on  the  incidence  of 
adverse events (AEs) considered to be related to study procedures by the Investigator. 
Results 
Sixty-one  patients  were  enrolled  under  Protocol  AGLU02303;  however,  3  of  these  patients  were 
excluded  from  the  study  when  the  results  of  their  GAA  gene  mutation  and  GAA  activity  analyses 
(performed as a part of this study) failed to confirm a diagnosis of Pompe disease. The evaluable study 
sample  (N=58)  consisted  of  36  females  and  22  males,  and  94.8%  of  the  patients  were  Caucasian. 
Patients  ranged  from  24.3  to  68.5  (mean  =  43.8)  years  of  age  at  the  onset  of  the  study,  and  all  58 
completed this 12-month study. 
Study assessments 
Results  of  the  6MWT,  a  measure  of  functional  capacity  and  endurance,  indicated  a  diminished 
capacity  for  walking  in  this  patient  population.  The  mean  percent  predicted  distance  walked  was 
Page 20 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51.5%  and  53.1%  for  the  first  and  second  administrations,  respectively.  Consistent  with  this,  mean 
percent predicted values for the QMT Bilateral Leg Score as well as the bilateral knee extensors and 
flexors were well below 80% of predicted normal levels at all evaluations confirming the presence of 
lower limb weakness. Of note, lower limb QMT results were considerably more compromised than the 
upper limbs at all time points and within the upper extremities, the grip muscles, which are the most 
distal of those assessed, were the most well preserved. Similar results were observed with MMT. 
With respect to respiratory muscle strength and function, the PFT results suggest that the majority of 
the  patients  had  some  degree  of  respiratory  impairment  as  indicated  by  percent  predicted  FVC, 
maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV), maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP), and maximal expiratory 
pressure (MEP) values < 80% of predicted normal values. Moreover, the mean drop in FVC from the 
sitting  to  the  supine  position  across  all  assessments  (i.e.,  mean  SVC)  was  approximately  -28%, 
confirming the presence of marked diaphragmatic weakness in these patients. Post-hoc analysis of the 
QMT and PFT assessments revealed a  statistically significant decline from Baseline to Month 12 in 
QMT Bilateral Arm and Leg Scores as well as in FVC, MVV, MIP, and MEP. 
Results  of  the  Late-onset  Pompe  Disease  Questionnaire  confirmed  the  presence  of  muscle  and 
respiratory  impairment  in  these  patients,  while  the  Medical  Outcomes  Study  (MOS)  36-Item  Short 
Form (SF-36) findings indicated a diminished health-related quality of life in these patients relative to 
the general population at Baseline and Month 12. 
Urine  and  plasma  glucose  tetrasaccharides  (Hex4)  levels  have  been  proposed  as  a  possible  non-
invasive method of monitoring disease state and response to therapy in patients with Pompe disease. 
While no attempt was made to correlate oligosaccharide levels with any of the assessments performed, 
urinary  Hex4  levels  were  well  above  normal  limits  at  Baseline  and  throughout  the  12-month  study 
period  in  the  majority  of  patients,  and  none  of  the  patients  had  normal  urine  Hex4  levels  at  all 
assessments. 
Results  of  additional  assessments,  including  physical  examinations,  vital  signs,  clinical  laboratory 
findings,  spine  x-rays,  and  monitoring of  IEs  revealed  a  range  of  complications  and  complaints  that 
were  not  unexpected  given  the  diagnosis  of  late-onset  Pompe  disease.  For  example,  abnormal 
neurological findings including proximal  muscle weakness, decreased or absent reflexes, and/or gait 
abnormalities were observed in the majority of patients and more than half (32/58) had abnormal spine 
x-ray  results  generally  indicative  of  scoliosis  and/or  kyphosis.  Similarly,  analysis  of  the  IE  data 
revealed that 35 of 58 (60%) patients experienced 1 or more IEs in the SOC of Musculoskeletal and 
Connective  Tissue  Disorders,  consistent  with  the  muscular  compromise  characteristic  of  Pompe 
disease. Moreover, the most frequently occurring IE by preferred term was fall, which was likely due 
to lower limb muscle weakness and/or gait abnormalities secondary to Pompe disease. 
Safety results 
The procedures and assessments performed during the conduct of this study were generally safe and 
well-tolerated. Forty (69%) of the 58 patients experienced a total of 137 AEs related to performance of 
study procedures during the 12-month observational period; the majority of these (93%) were of mild 
or  moderate  intensity.  The  highest  number  of  AEs  (63  of  137  or  46%)  occurred  in  the  SOC  of 
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders and tended to be associated with administration of 
the  6MWT,  QMT,  and/or  MMT.  This  was  not  unexpected  given  the  muscular  compromise 
characteristic of Pompe disease and the challenging nature of these assessments. There were no SAEs 
or deaths, and all 58 patients completed the 12-month study. 
Extension study AGLU03206 (LOTS extension) 
During the procedure, the CHMP has requested the  submission of the interim  data of this extension 
open-label study. The final results will be provided upon completion of the clinical study report. 
Study design 
Study  AGLU03206  was  a  multicenter,  multinational,  open-label  extension  study  of  the  safety  and 
efficacy  of  Myozyme  treatment  in  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  who  were  previously 
enrolled in Protocol AGLU02704. Eligible patients received an intravenous (IV) infusion of 20 mg/kg 
Page 21 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  Myozyme  every  other  week  (qow)  until  their  participation  in  both  the  AGLU02704  and 
AGLU03206  studies  combined  equaled  a  minimum  of  104  weeks.  Patients  who  provided  signed 
written  informed  consent  and  met  all  the  inclusion  criteria  and  have  not  met  the  exclusion  criterion 
were enrolled in the study. Patients retained their original identification number from the AGLU02704 
Study. 
Of the 90 patients enrolled in the LOTS study, 81 continued into the extension protocol, AGLU03206. 
The  same  safety  and  efficacy  assessments  performed  in  Protocol  AGLU02704  were  performed  at 
scheduled  visits  throughout  the  study  treatment  period.  Adverse  events  (AE),  concomitant 
medications/therapies and ventilator use were monitored continuously throughout the study. The Co-
primary efficacy endpoints were: (1) Change from Treatment Baseline to End of Study time point in 
6MWT – meters walked, and (2) Change from Treatment Baseline to End of Study time point in % 
predicted FVC in the upright position. Safety endpoints included an analysis of (1) Adverse Events, 
3) 
Serious  Adverse  Events,  and  Infusion  Associated  Reactions  (IARs),  (2)  Laboratory  Assessments,
Vital  Signs  (change  over  time  in  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  respiratory  rate,  and  temperature),  (4) 
Physical Examinations (shift in normal/abnormal), (5) Hearing Assessment (shift in normal/abnormal), 
and (6) ECG (shift in normal/abnormal). 
III.1.2.4. 
Efficacy discussion and conclusions 
In  conclusion,  only  one  pivotal  study  was  performed.  The  analysis  of  the  6  MWT  change  from 
baseline  to  last  observed  visit  with  Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney  test  stratified  by  randomisation  strata 
was planned, as well as an ANCOVA model including the randomisation strata. The provided data did 
not  validate  the  ANCOVA  model  assumptions;  therefore  the  focus  was  on  the  Wilcoxon-Mann-
Whitney test stratified by randomisation strata, which required fewer assumptions. 
CHMP believed that the robustness of the results of the first co-primary endpoint cannot be assessed, 
as  the  sensitivity  analysis  to  the  randomisation  procedure  used  in  treatment  allocation  and  the 
sensitivity analysis to the missing data should be provided. In response to this question, Genzyme has 
provided the results of all analyses requested. These sensitivity analyses were based on the WMW test 
and were statistically significant. CHMP endorsed these responses. Subgroup analyses of the 6 MWT 
change  from  baseline  to  last  observed  visit  show  better  results  in  the  Myozyme  group  than  in  the 
placebo group, but due to the small number of patients these results in subgroups are not statistically 
significant.  Results  of  the  first  co-primary  endpoint  are  reinforced  by  most  secondary  or  tertiary 
endpoints . 
Besides, considering some entry criteria, the included patients presented a mild or moderate late-onset 
disease Pompe and were not late in their disease progression. Regarding the subgroup analyses there is 
a  trend  toward  improvement  in  distance  walked  and  in  FVC  outcomes  in  Myozyme  patients  and  in 
particular in the subset “6MWT≥300m” and/or “FVC≥55%”, suggesting that Myozyme could have a 
benefit in late-onset patients mildly to moderately affected.  
To conclude, this study suggests a positive effect of Myozyme in late-onset Pompe disease, but more 
probably in mild or moderate stages of the disease.  The MAH has submitted the interim report data 
for study AGLU03206 (LOTS Extension). 
Out  of  the  90  patients  enrolled  in  the  LOTS  study,  81  continued  into  the  extension  protocol, 
AGLU03206. An interim analysis of the results after 26 weeks of the extension study was presented 
(104 weeks of total treatment). The same safety and efficacy assessments as in Protocol AGLU02704 
were performed at scheduled visits throughout the study treatment period.  
The patients previously treated with placebo and receiving then Myozyme showed an improvement in 
mean 6MWT but a decline in mean % predicted FVC at Week 104. 
Page 22 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.2  Clinical safety 
Patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  may  present  with  symptoms  during  infancy,  childhood, 
adolescence or even adulthood. Late onset Pompe disease is characterised by the progressive loss of 
proximal  skeletal  and  respiratory  muscle  strength  and  function.  The  course  of  late-onset  Pompe 
disease  is  less  predictable  than  the  infantile  form,  with  some  patients  experiencing  a  rapid 
deterioration in skeletal and respiratory muscle function leading to loss of ambulation and respiratory 
failure, others progressing less rapidly, and yet others presenting with a dissociation in the progression 
of skeletal and respiratory muscle involvement. 
In support of the initial Marketing Authorisation, data were included on a limited number of patients 
with  late-onset  Pompe  disease,  the  majority  of  which  were  treated  with  Myozyme  under  various 
expanded access and compassionate use schemes. 
The applicant has submitted in this variation the final clinical study report of the AGLU02704, a phase 
3 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The MAH proposes to update the safety section 
of the SPC of Myozyme to reflect the safety data from the 90 patients (Myozyme n=60; Placebo n=30) 
with late-onset Pompe disease treated in the study. 
Patient exposure 
Patients included in this study were required to be ≥ 8 years of age at the time of enrolment with a 
confirmed diagnosis of Pompe and naïve to enzyme replacement therapy with GAA from any source. 
Patients  were  also  required  to  be  ambulatory  and  free  of  invasive  ventilation,  with  quantifiable 
respiratory and skeletal muscle weakness.  
A total of 90 patients were randomised into the study.  60 patients received intravenous infusions of 
Myozyme at the approved commercial dose of 20 mg/kg at a frequency of every other week and 30 
patients received infusion of placebo in a double-blind fashion . 
For both treatment groups, the median time in the study from first to last infusion was 78 weeks and 
the median number of study drug infusions was 39.  
The  table  below  summarises  the  demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  of  patients  in  each 
treatment group. 
Page 23 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  higher  proportion  of  patients  have  been  included  in  Myozyme  group  compared  with  the  placebo 
group (ratio 2/1: 60 patients vs 30 patients). Mean age of patients at first infusion in both treatment 
groups was comparable: 45 years in Myozyme group vs 42 years in placebo group. 
In  Myozyme  group  a  higher  proportion  of  male  patients  have  been  included  compared  to  placebo 
group (57% vs 37%). 
Death/ Discontinuation due to treatment 
55 patients (91.7%) in Myozyme treatment group and 26 patients (86.7%) completed the study. Nine 
patients terminated treatment early (5 in Myozyme group and 4 in Placebo group): 
-  3  patients  discontinued  due  to  AEs  :  2  in  Myozyme  group  after  experiencing  serious  
hypersensitivity  reactions  and  1  in  placebo  group  after  experiencing  recurrent  episodes  of 
headache and later discontinued due to head discomfort assessed as remote/unlikely related to 
treatment. 
Page 24 of 30 
 
 
 
 
-  1  patient  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group  died  (at  74.0  weeks)  for  reasons  unrelated  to  the 
treatment. Thirteen days after the Week 72 infusion this 33-year old female developed locked-
in syndrome. The decision was made to withdraw life support measures 3 days later and the 
patient died. The cause of death was considered to be brain stem ischemia secondary to basilar 
artery thrombosis. At the time of death, the patient was under clinical care for 2 broad-based 
basilar aneurysms found on angiogram during study participation. 
-  1 patient in the Myozyme treatment group chose to discontinue for personal reasons 
-  4  patients  (1  in  the  Myozyme  treatment  group,  3  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group)  chose  to 
discontinue pursuing treatment with commercial Myozyme therapy. 
Summary of adverse events 
All patients in the study experienced at least 1 treatment-emergent AE (AEs that occurred following 
the initiation of study treatment); a total of 2296 treatment-emergent AEs (1445 in Myozyme group vs 
851  in  Placebo  group)  were  experienced  by  90  patients.  The  total  numbers  of  AEs  reported  in  this 
study is summarised in the table below. 
In  Myozyme  treatment  group,  the  most  common  AEs  term  were  fall,  nasopharyngitis,  headache, 
hypoacusis, diarrhoea, arthralgia, and pain in extremity. The majority of AEs were assessed as mild or 
moderate (98.0%), unrelated to treatment (79.4%), and resolved before the end of the study (91.3%). 
In placebo treatment group, the most common AEs were fall, nasopharyngitis, and headache. Similar 
to Myozyme, the majority of AEs were assessed as mild or moderate (97.9%), unrelated to treatment 
(83.1%), and resolved before the end of the study (89.7%). 
The  majority  of  treatment-emergent  AEs  in  both  treatment  groups  were  assessed  as  unrelated  or 
unlikely/remotely  related  to  treatment.  In  the  Myozyme  treatment  group,  298  AEs  occurring  in  32 
patients were considered possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment and in the Placebo 
treatment  group,  144  AEs occurring  in 17  patients  were  considered  possibly,  probably, or  definitely 
related to study treatment.  
In the Myozyme treatment group, the most frequent treatment-related events were nausea, headache, 
urticaria,  hyperhidrosis,  dizziness,  chest  discomfort.  In  the  Placebo  group,  the  most  frequent 
treatment-related events were headache, fatigue, and nausea. 
The  majority  of  treatment-related  AEs  were  non-serious.  9  related  events  were  reported  as  SAEs, 
including  7  events  (2  events  of  hypersensitivity  and  single  events  of  angioedema,  chest  discomfort, 
non-cardiac  chest  pain,  supraventricular  tachycardia,  and  throat  tightness)  in  4  patients  in  the 
Page 25 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myozyme treatment group and 2 events (septal panniculitis and headache) in 2 patients in the Placebo 
treatment  group.  7  of  the  serious  related  events  were  characterised  as  IARs  (Infusion  associated 
Reactions).  IARs  were  defined  as  AEs  that  occurred  during  either  the  infusion  or  the  observation 
period following the infusion which were deemed to be related (i.e., possibly, probably or definitely) 
to study drug. 
The majority of treatment-related AEs were characterised as IARs. In the Myozyme group, 236 among 
the  298  related  events  (79.2%)  were  characterised  as  IARs  and  in  the  Placebo  group  73  of  the  144 
related  events  (50.7%)  were  characterised  as  IARs.  Increased  frequency  of  IARs  in  the  Myozyme 
treatment group was largely attributed to a single IgE positive patient who experienced 116 (49.2%) of 
the total 236 IARs in the treatment group. 
The  most  frequent  IARs  (those  occurring  in  ≥  5%  of  patients)  in  Myozyme  group  were  nausea, 
headache,  urticaria,  dizziness,  chest  discomfort,  hyperhidrosis,  flushing,  blood  pressure  increased, 
vomiting  and  in  the  Placebo  group  were  headache,  nausea  and  dizziness.  IARs  occurring  in  the 
Myozyme  group  only  included  chest  discomfort,  urticaria,  flushing,  hyperhidrosis,  blood  pressure 
increased,  and  vomiting.  The  majority  of  IARs  were  non-serious,  7  IARs  were  assessed  as  serious, 
including 6 events in 3 patients in Myozyme group and 1 event in 1 patient in the Placebo group.  
Most IARs occurred either at the lowest infusion rates (which were generally used early in the infusion 
period) or at the highest infusion rates.  During infusion in the Myozyme treatment group, 112 of 169 
IARs (66.3%) occurred at lower infusion rates (i.e., >0 to ≤3 mg/kg/hr) and 36 IARs (21.3%) occurred 
at higher infusion rates (i.e., >5 mg/kg/hr). During infusion in the Placebo treatment group, 30 of 40 
IARs (75.0%) occurred at infusion rates >5 mg/kg/hr, 5 IARs (12.5%) occurred at infusion rates >3 to 
≤  5  mg/kg/hr  and  5  IARs  (12.5%)  occurred  at  infusion  rates  >0  to  ≤  3  mg/kg/hr.  Infusions  rates  in 
which IARs occurred varied between treatment groups. The majority of IARs in both treatment groups 
resolved spontaneously. IARs requiring intervention were managed with infusion rate reduction and / 
or interruption of infusion and / or administration of medications / therapies, when clinically indicated. 
Serious  hypersensitivity  reactions  occurred  in  3  patients  of  which  reactions  were  IgE  mediated  in  2 
patients. One Patient of the two experienced serious events of hypersensitivity, chest discomfort, and 
throat tightness and non-serious events of urticaria, blood pressure increased, flushing, nausea, oxygen 
saturation  decreased,  rash  papular,  pruritus,  sinus  tachycardia,  wheezing,  and  headache.  The  second 
Patient  experienced  serious  hypersensitivity  reaction  consisting  of  symptoms  of  serious  non-cardiac 
chest pain and non-serious events of chest discomfort, urticaria, feeling hot, flushing, local swelling, 
pruritus,  lip  swelling,  and  rash  macular.  And  the  third  patient  mentioned  above  experienced 
angioedema.  Two  of  the  3  patients  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  as  a  result  of  reactions.  Both 
patients  with  IgE-mediated  reactions  were  successfully  re-treated  with  Myozyme  using  a 
desensitisation  procedure  under  close  clinical  supervision  and  continued  to  receive  treatment;  one 
patient was re-treated during study participation with incrementally increasing dose from 10 mg/kg per 
week  for  6  consecutive  weeks  followed  by  a  7th  week  of  15  mg/kg  before  resuming  the  protocol 
specified dose of 20 mg/kg qow. The second patient was re-treated in the commercial setting at lower 
dose of Myozyme administered at a slower rate. 
All  evaluable  patients  in  the  Myozyme  group  tested  positive  for  anti-rhGAA  IgG  antibodies.  One 
patient who discontinued from the study due to IARs at the Week 2 infusion tested IgG-negative at the 
baseline test performed before the first infusion. In the 59 patients who ever tested IgG-positive, the 
median time to seroconversion was 4 weeks (range of 4 to 12 weeks). The median peak anti-rhGAA 
IgG antibody titre was 6,400 (range 200 to 819,200). 
In the 16 patients in the Myozyme treatment group who were ever sero-positive and who experienced 
IARs, seroconversion occurred by Week 8. Six of the 16 patients experienced the first IAR with the 
first  infusion,  before  seroconversion.  One  patient  sero-converted  6  weeks  after  the  first  IAR,  one 
patient  experienced  1  IAR  coincident  with  seroconversion  at  Week  4  (patient  who  experienced 
angioneurotic  oedema),  and  8  patients  experienced  the  first  IAR  from  8  weeks  to  52  weeks  after 
seroconversion.    There  was  no  consistent  effect  on  either  co-primary  efficacy  endpoint  (Six  Minute 
Walk Test or Forced Vital Capacity) when patients are stratified by mean IgG titre quartiles 
Page 26 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients  who  experienced  moderate,  severe,  or  recurrent  IARs  were  tested  for  anti-rhGAA  IgE 
antibodies, complement activation, and serum tryptase. Two of 10 patients in the Myozyme treatment 
group tested for anti-rhGAA IgE antibodies were positive. 6 of 9 Myozyme-treated patients who were 
tested were positive for complement activation. 1 of these 9 patients had a significantly elevated level 
of serum tryptase as well as experiencing a serious hypersensitivity reaction. 
The total number of treatment-related AEs was 298 in Myozyme group vs 144 in placebo group. The 
majority of AEs were assessed as mild or moderate in intensity (98.0% in Myozyme group and 97.9 in 
placebo group) and unrelated to study drug (79.4% in Myozyme group vs 83.1% in placebo group). 
Most  of  them  were  consistent  with  the  underlying  Pompe  disease.  The  rate  of  patients  who 
experienced treatment related adverse events and serious adverse events are comparable between the 2 
groups. The frequency of patients who experienced IARs was slightly higher in Myozyme group than 
in placebo group: 28% of the patients of Myozyme group experienced IARs vs 23.3% in the placebo 
group. Additionally, the number of AEs characterised as IARS in Myozyme group was higher than in 
placebo  group  (236  vs  73),  to  be  noted  that  one  patient  has  experienced  half  of  the  IARs  in  the 
Myozyme  group.  The  increased  should  be  explained  by  the  higher  number  of  patients  included  in 
Myozyme group (60 patients in Myozyme group vs 30 patients in placebo group), and it is due to the 
specificity  of  treatment.  9  patients  discontinued  from  the  study;  among  them  4  discontinued  due  to 
AEs or death. The majority of related AEs were assessed as non-serious.  
13 (21.7%) patients in the Myozyme treatment group experienced 20 SAEs and 6 (20.0%) patients in 
the Placebo treatment group experienced 7 SAEs. A few number of serious adverse events assessed as 
related  have  been  reported:  9  SAEs  were  assessed  as  related  (7  events  in  the  Myozyme  treatment 
group  and  2  in  the  Placebo  treatment  group).  Serious  adverse  events  as  related  in  Myozyme  group 
included:  hypersensitivity,  angioneurotic  oedema,  chest  discomfort,  non-cardiac  chest  pain, 
supraventricular  tachycardia,  and  throat  tightness.  Except  supraventricular  tachycardia,  all  related 
SAEs in the Myozyme group were characterised as IARs. In Myozyme group, 3 patients experienced 
serious  IARs.  Among  the  3  patients,  2  were  successfully  re-treated  with  Myozyme  using 
desensitisation procedure (one during study participation and one in the commercial setting).  
The majority of the adverse events related to Myozyme are consistent with the known safety profile of 
Myozyme.  All evaluable patients in the Myozyme group were tested positive (59 patients) for anti-
rhGAA IgG antibodies. 
The  CHMP  agree  with  the  MAH  that  there  was  no  apparent  association  between  IgG  antibody  titre 
and occurrence of IARs. 
The MAH added that on 24 July 2008, a CHMP opinion was issued on the assessment report for Study 
AGLU03105  (FUM020).  In  that  assessment  report  the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  include  safety 
information from Study AGLU03105 in the SPC. As the safety information from AGLU02704 is more 
comprehensive and as all safety concepts from AGLU03105 are covered by the changes proposed for 
this variation based on Study AGLU02704, the MAH believed that no additional type II variation is 
needed for AGLU03105. The CHMP is in agreement with the proposal of the MAH. 
Risk Management Plan 
No  special  risks  have  been  identified  regarding  the  Late-Onset  Pompe  disease  patients.  The  CHMP 
accepted the justification not to submit a RMP. 
III.2.1  Safety discussion and conclusion 
Based  on  the  safety  data  of  the  study  AGLU02704  in  the  late  onset  patients,  the  safety  profile  of 
Myozyme appears consistent with the known safety profile of the product; no new safety concern has 
been  raised.  The  majority  of  the  adverse  events  was  assessed  as  mild  or  moderate  and  was  due  to 
manifestations  of  Pompe  disease  and  not  related  to  Myozyme.  Moreover,  the  majority  of  treatment 
related  AEs  were  assessed  as  non  serious.  The  rate  of  patients  who  experience  treatment  related 
adverse events and serious adverse events are comparable between the Myozyme group and placebo 
Page 27 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group.  Slightly  more  patients  in  Myozyme  group  than  in  placebo  group  experienced  IARs  (28% 
patients vs 23.3%), and the number of IARS in Myozyme group is higher than in placebo group (236 
vs 73). The increased frequency of IARs in the Myozyme treatment group was largely attributed to a 
single IgE positive patient who experienced 116 (49.2%) of the total 236 IARs in the treatment group. 
The most frequently reported adverse events related to the administration of Myozyme remain IARS.  
Moreover, the percentage of patients treated with Myozyme who experienced IARs was lower in the 
late  onset  patients  (28%)  than  in  the  infantile  patients  (around  50%).    All  evaluable  patients  (59 
patients) treated with Myozyme developed IgG antibodies to rhGAA by Week 12, with a median time 
to  seroconversion  of  4  weeks.  Immunogenicity  remains  a  concern  in  patient  treated  by  Myozyme.  
Serious hypersensitivity occurred in 3 patients treated with Myozyme, in 2 patients reactions were IgE 
mediated. Among the 3 patients, 2 were successfully re-treated with Myozyme using desensitisation 
procedure (one during study participation and one in the commercial setting). 
Based on these data the CHMP agreed with the MAH to update the SPC and leaflet with the safety 
data of the AGLU02704 study however the final text for the modifications of the SPC will need to be 
re-discussed. The CHMP also agreed that the FUM020 is fulfilled by the submission of this variation 
type II and the information on safety will be inserted in the SPC accordingly. 
Safety data of AGLU03206 
Eighty-one  patients  who  completed  study  AGLU02704  continued  into  the  extension  protocol 
AGLU03206. The MAH has performed an interim analysis of safety data of study AGLU03206. As of 
15 April 2008, all patients have completed Week 26 assessments in the study with treatment duration 
of 25.1 to 53.9 weeks. No patients died or discontinued treatment due to AEs during alglucosidase alfa 
treatment. All patients but 2 patients experienced AEs, a total of 878 AEs were reported through 15 
April 2008.  
The  majority  of  AEs  were  non-serious,  assessed  as  mild  to  moderate  in  severity  (98.5%),  and 
unrelated to treatment (87.0%). 28 patients experienced 114 AEs that were assessed by the investigator 
as related to alglucosidase alfa, all of which were non-serious and all but 1 were assessed as mild or 
moderate in severity. Among the treatment related AEs, about half were characterized as IARs. 
Based on the data provided by the MAH, the interim results of study AGLU03206 do not raise new 
safety issues compared with result of study AGLU02704 and with previous experiences in late onset 
and in infantile onset patients.  
III.3.  Overall Discussion and Benefit Risk assessment  
The MAH submitted this type II variation in order to delete the reference to non established benefits 
for the late onset patients: 
“The  benefits  of  Myozyme  in  patients  with  late-onset  Pompe  disease  have  not  been 
established.”  
The main study AGLU02704 submitted was a Randomised, Double-Blind, Multicenter, Multinational, 
Placebo-Controlled  Study  of  the  Safety,  Efficacy,  and  Pharmacokinetics  of  Myozyme,  Recombinant 
Human Acid alpha-Glucosidase (rhGAA), Treatment in Patients with Late-Onset Pompe Disease. 
The analysis of the 6 MWT change from baseline to last observed visit with Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney 
test  stratified  by  randomisation  strata  was  planned,  as  well  as  an  ANCOVA  model  including  the 
randomisation strata. The provided data did not validate the ANCOVA model assumptions; therefore 
the focus was on the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test stratified by randomisation strata, which required 
fewer assumptions. 
CHMP believed that the robustness of the results of the first co-primary endpoint cannot be assessed, 
as  the  sensibility  analysis  to  the  randomisation  procedure  used  in  treatment  allocation  and  the 
sensibility analysis to the missing data should be provided. In response to this question, Genzyme has 
Page 28 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided the results of all analyses requested. These sensitivity analyses were based on the WMW test 
and were statistically significant. CHMP endorsed these responses. Subgroup analyses of the 6 MWT 
change  from  baseline  to  last  observed  visit  show  better  results  in  the  Myozyme  group  than  in  the 
placebo group, but due to the small number of patients these results in subgroups are not statistically 
significant.  Results  of  the  first  co-primary  endpoint  are  reinforced  by  most  secondary  or  tertiary 
endpoints . 
Considering some entry criteria, the included patients presented a mild or moderate late-onset disease 
Pompe and were not late in their disease progression. Regarding the subgroup analyses there is a trend 
toward improvement in distance walked and in FVC outcomes in Myozyme patients and in particular 
in the subset “6MWT≥300m” and/or “FVC≥55%”, suggesting that Myozyme could have a benefit in 
late-onset  patients  mildly  to  moderately  affected.  Moreover,  the  responder  analysis  suggested  an 
overall benefit from Myozyme treatment  more  marked for the lower thresholds, indicating a limited 
effect  of  Myozyme.  The  possibility  of  excluding  the  severely  affected  late-onset  patients  from  the 
indication was considered. 
The most frequently reported adverse events related to the administration of Myozyme remain IARS.  
Moreover, the percentage of patients treated with Myozyme who experienced IARs was lower in the 
late onset patients (28%) than in the infantile patients (around 50%).  
The results of the 1-year observational study in 58 patients with a confirmed diagnosis of late-onset 
Pompe disease do not provide any new data. 
In December 2008 the CHMP concluded that, the provided pivotal study suggests a positive effect of 
Myozyme  in  late-onset  Pompe  disease,  but  more  probably  in  the  mild  or  moderate  stages  of  the 
disease.  The  efficacy  and  safety  follow-up  from  patients  included  in  the  open-label  extension  study 
AGLU03206  would  allow  enlightening  on  the  real  benefit  of  Myozyme  in  late-onset  disease.  These 
data have now been submitted (interim report). 
Following  the  assessment  of  the  responses  of  the MAH  allowed  resolving  some  of  the  issues  raised 
throughout this procedure, in particular regarding pharmacokinetic and some methodological aspects. 
In  addition  a  significant  effect  of  Myozyme  has  been  observed  in  the  late-onset  patients  on  the  co-
primary endpoint, throughout the submitted studies. Nevertheless, no new data has been generated to 
fully  address  some  of  the  issues,  namely  the  supportive  results  of  the  secondary  endpoints  or  the 
apparent  more  marked  effect  in  the  mild  or  moderate  stages  of  the  disease.  Furthermore,  interim 
results  from  the  open-label  extension  study  AGLU03206,  did  not  clearly  suggest  that  efficacy  is 
strictly  maintained  during  the  extension  study.  In  addition,  the  low  report  of  change  of  the  walking 
device status in treated as well as untreated patients may indicate that the benefit of Myozyme in late-
onset disease, if any, will probably be observed only on a longer term, in view of the slow rate of the 
disease progression. 
However, the real effects/benefits of Myozyme in this population, although established in some ways, 
remain difficult to characterise in many other aspects. In particular, when compared to the early-onset 
patients, the late-onset disease often progresses at a slower rate and the life threat is usually on a much 
longer term.  
Considering  the  above  assessment  and  the  discussion  that  followed,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the 
following amended wording regarding the late-onset patients for section 4.1 of the SPC: 
In patients with late-onset Pompe disease the evidence of efficacy is limited (see section 5.1).” 
Following  the  acceptance  by  the  MAH  of  the  proposed  amendments  in  the  Product  Information  the 
CHMP concluded that the benefit risk balance for Myozyme remains positive. 
Page 29 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.4  Product Information 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
The section 4.1 of the Therapeutic Indication has been amended. The new full indication for Myozyme 
is as follows: 
“Myozyme is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) in patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of Pompe disease (acid -glucosidase deficiency).  
In patients with late-onset Pompe disease the evidence of efficacy is limited (see section 5.1).” 
In the section 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic properties”, the results of the studies related to late-onset Pompe 
disease  are  introduced.  Section  5.2  “Pharmacokinetic  properties”  has  been  updated  to  include 
pharmacokinetic data from late-onset Pompe disease patients. 
The sections 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use” and sections 4.8 “Undesirable effects” of 
the SPC have been reworked in order to include the information from the submitted studies as well as 
the distinction in the observations for infantile-onset and late-onset patients.  
Package Leaflet 
The Package Leaflet has been amended accordingly. 
IV.  CONCLUSION 
On 24 September 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, and Package Leaflet. 
Page 30 of 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
