EMA/83596/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003687 
EPAR summary for the public 
Mysimba 
naltrexone / bupropion 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Mysimba. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Mysimba. 
For practical information about using Mysimba, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Mysimba and what is it used for? 
Mysimba is a medicine used along with diet and exercise to help manage weight in adults: 
•  who are obese (have a body-mass index – BMI – of 30 or more);  
•  who are overweight (have a BMI between 27 and 30) and have weight-related complications such 
as diabetes, abnormally high levels of fat in the blood, or high blood pressure.  
BMI is a measurement that indicates body weight relative to height. 
Mysimba contains the active substances naltrexone and bupropion, which are licensed individually in 
the EU for other uses. 
How is Mysimba used? 
Mysimba is available as prolonged-release tablets containing 7.2 mg naltrexone and 78 mg bupropion 
and can only be obtained with a prescription. Prolonged-release means that naltrexone and bupropion 
are released slowly from the tablet over a few hours. 
Treatment with Mysimba is started with a single tablet each morning, with the dose gradually 
increased over 4 weeks to the recommended dose of two tablets twice a day, preferably taken with 
food.   
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Patients should have their response and tolerability to the medicine checked regularly and treatment 
should be stopped in patients who have certain side effects such as an increase in blood pressure. 
Mysimba should also be stopped if patients have not lost at least 5% of their initial body weight after 4 
months of treatment. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Mysimba work? 
The exact way that Mysimba works is not fully understood, but the two active substances, naltrexone 
and bupropion, act on the parts of the brain that control food intake and energy balance, as well as 
reducing the effect of the part of the brain that controls the pleasure associated with eating food. 
When given together, their actions reduce appetite and the amount that patients eat, and increase 
energy expenditure, helping them to stick to a calorie-controlled diet and to reduce their body weight. 
What benefits of Mysimba have been shown in studies? 
The effects of Mysimba in reducing body weight have been shown in 4 main studies involving around 
4,500 obese or overweight patients, in which Mysimba was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment). Patients in the studies were given the medicine as part of a weight loss programme 
involving counselling and advice on diet and exercise. The main measures of effectiveness were the 
percentage reduction in body weight over 28 or 56 weeks of treatment, and the proportion of patients 
who achieved at least a 5% weight reduction; the studies also looked at the number of patients who 
achieved at least a more stringent 10% reduction in weight, and the results were analysed using 
various methods to take account of the number of patients who did not complete the studies (around 
50% over one year). 
In three of the studies, the average weight loss in patients treated with Mysimba was around 3.7 to 
5.7%, compared with 1.3 to 1.9% with placebo; the proportion of Mysimba-treated patients who 
achieved 5% weight loss ranged from 28 to 42% compared with 12 to 14% with placebo. About 13 to 
22% of those taking Mysimba achieved at least a 10% reduction in weight, while 5 to 6% of placebo-
treated patients did so. 
In the other study, in which patient counselling was also more intensive, the overall weight loss was 
greater over the study period: 8.1% with Mysimba and 4.9% with placebo. Some 46% and 30% of 
patients given Mysimba achieved 5 and 10% weight reductions respectively, compared with 34% and 
17% respectively with placebo.  
The degree of improvement with Mysimba over placebo was similar using different methods of analysis, 
although the benefits were smallest with the most conservative methods that assumed patients who 
did not complete the study would not have seen any improvement. The treatment effect was more 
marked in patients who completed 56 weeks of treatment, or who had lost at least 5% of their original 
body weight by 4 months. 
What are the risks associated with Mysimba? 
The most common side effects with Mysimba (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
and vomiting (feeling and being sick) and constipation; dizziness and dry mouth were also common 
(seen in up to 1 patient in 10). For the full list of all side effects reported with Mysimba, see the 
package leaflet. 
Mysimba must not be used in certain patients at particular risk of side effects, including patients with 
severely reduced kidney or liver function, those with high blood pressure that is not under control, 
Mysimba  
EMA/83596/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
those who have ever had seizures (fits), certain psychological problems or who have a brain tumour or 
are undergoing withdrawal from alcohol or certain drugs. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Mysimba approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) considered that although the 
effectiveness of the medicine in promoting weight loss was limited, it was sufficient to be clinically 
significant, and mandatory re-assessment of treatment after 4 months should ensure that the medicine 
only continues to be used in those in whom the medicine provides adequate benefit. Regarding safety, 
although the CHMP had some concerns about possible effects on the heart and blood vessels 
(cardiovascular outcomes) and a slightly increased risk of seizures (fits), the most common side effects 
were largely manageable, as patients could stop taking the medicine if they were bothersome. Interim 
data from an ongoing study of cardiovascular outcomes were reviewed during the assessment although 
the CHMP also recommended ongoing monitoring of the medicine’s cardiovascular effects.  On the 
balance of the available evidence the CHMP decided that Mysimba’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Mysimba? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Mysimba is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Mysimba, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Mysimba will produce an information pack for doctors 
prescribing the medicine, including guidance on stopping treatment in patients who do not respond or 
if there are concerns about side effects. It will also carry out a further study to assess the effect of the 
medicine on the heart and blood vessels. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Mysimba 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Mysimba on 26 March 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Mysimba can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Mysimba, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2015. 
Mysimba  
EMA/83596/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
