1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (MPS VI) or Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome is a rare lysosomal storage 
disease (LSD) resulting from a deficiency in the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase.There 
are an estimated 1100 cases in the developed world. Without sufficient enzyme activity, dermatan 
sulfate degradation is blocked, resulting in the intracellular accumulation of this substrate in the 
lysosomes.  The  accumulation  causes  a  progressive  disorder  with  multiple  organ  and  tissue 
involvement. MPS VI is an inherited autosomal-recessive disorder, and carriers do not exhibit any 
biochemical or clinical evidence of disease. 
As with all the MPS disorders, MPS VI is a clinically heterogeneous disease in terms of the extent 
of  organ  impairment  and  rate  of  disease  progression  in affected individuals. Case studies in the 
literature  have  identified  subjects  presenting  with  marked  disease  in  the  first  year  of  life    and 
those  presenting  with  slowly  advancing  disease  that  progressed  over  many  decades.  The  most 
rapidly advancing form of the disease presents with deceleration of growth, skeletal deformities, 
coarse facial features, upper airway obstruction, recurrent respiratory and ear infections, and joint 
abnormalities. 
Ultimately,  affected  individuals  become  wheelchair  bound  or  bedridden  secondary  to  skeletal 
deformity, joint disease, cardiopulmonary disease, blindness and spinal cord compression. They 
eventually succumb to infection, the complications of surgery, or cardiorespiratory failure. MPS 
VI  is  not  associated  with  impairment  of  cognitive  function,  although  physical  limitations  may 
impact  learning  and  development.  Both  slowly  and  rapidly  progressive  disease  can  lead  to  a 
significant loss of function for affected individuals. 
The  expression  of  functional  ASB  protein  is  a  crucial  determinant  influencing  the  clinical 
phenotype of MPS VI. Although the key structural features of the ASB glycoprotein are known, 
the identification of over 45 mutations at the DNA level has hindered the ability to unequivocally 
predict  phenotype  from  genotype  .The  majority  of  these  mutant  alleles  are  either  unique  or  are 
present  in  a  small  number  of  subjects,  and  no  predominant  mutations  have  been  described. 
Biochemical  heterogeneity  resulting  from  the  combination  of  two  different  mutant  alleles  also 
contributes to clinical heterogeneity. 
Subjects along the entire spectrum of slowly to rapidly advancing disease are profoundly deficient 
in endogenous enzyme activity, hindering predictions of clinical outcomes based on residual ASB 
activity  levels.  Despite  the  genotypic  and  phenotypic  heterogeneity  of  MPS  VI,  the  clinical 
outcomes resulting from chronic lysosomal storage  can be traced to the characteristic anatomic, 
pathophysiological changes in affected organs in patients with this disease. 
There is no satisfactory treatment for MPS VI. Many patients have benefited from bone marrow 
transplantation  (BMT),  and,  in  general,  responses  to  engraftment  in  terms  of  biochemical  and 
clinical  parameters  have  been  quite  satisfactory,  although  corneal  cloudiness  and  skeletal 
dysplasia  are  unaffected  even  with  successful  engraftment  BMT  is  associated  with  substantial 
morbidity  and  mortality,  and  is  limited  by  a  lack  of  suitable  donors.  The  European  Group  for 
Bone  Marrow  Transplantation  reported  transplant-related  mortality  of  10%  (HLA  identical)  to 
20–25% (HLA mismatched) for 63 transplantations for lysosomal disorders. As many as 50% of 
the surviving patients who engraft develop graft versus host disease. Finally, there is a relatively 
high rate of graft failure, even for patients undergoing a second transplant. The risk benefit profile 
of transplantation in LSDs has thus been complicated. More recently, reports of success in cord 
blood  transplantation  for  patients  with  MPS  VI  and  MPS  I  portend  improvements  in  the 
risk/benefit profile for transplantation in these disorders. 
In the absence of treatment with BMT, MPS VI patients typically receive only symptomatic care. 
In addition to medication for infections, cardiac failure, and other complications, MPS VI patients 
typically  receive  physical  and  occupational  therapy  for  their  stiff  joints  and  other  non-invasive 
nterventions such as positive airway pressure (CPAP or BiPAP) for sleep apnea. 
1/37 
©EMEA 2006 
for 
the 
(ERT) 
therapy 
replacement 
long–term  enzyme 
Extensive  surgical  procedures  are  commonly  undertaken  to  mitigate  the  progressive  effects  of 
MPS  VI.  Despite  these  interventions,  MPS  VI  remains  a  serious  and  progressive  disease 
producing profound disability that is fatal in most cases. 
Galsulfase is a recombinant human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase (rhASB, Arylsulfatase B), 
for  patients  with 
indicated 
mucopolysaccharidosis VI (MPS VI), also referred to as Maroteaux–Lamy Syndrome. 
Recombinant  human  N-acetylgalactosamine  4-sulfatase  is  a  soluble  monomeric  protein  with  a 
molecular weight of 56 kD; the glycosylated product has an apparent molecular weight of 66 kD 
on  SDS–PAGE.  The  predicted  amino  acid  sequence  and  the  nucleotide  sequence  of  the 
recombinant  enzyme  are  identical  to  native  human  N–acetylgalactosamine  4–sulfatase  (also 
known as arylsulfatase B, or ASB; E.C # 3.1.6.12). The enzyme is responsible for hydrolysis of 
the  sulfate  moiety  of  the  glycosaminoglycan  (GAG)  dermatan  sulfate  during  its  stepwise 
degradation. 
Galsulfase  is  indicated  for  long-term  enzyme  replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  a  confirmed 
diagnosis of Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (MPS VI; N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase deficiency; 
Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome) to treat the clinical manifestations of the disease.  
The  recommended  dosage  regimen  for  Naglazyme  is  1  mg/kg  body  weight  administered  once 
every week as an intravenous infusion over 4 hours. The initial infusion rate is adjusted so that 
approximately  2.5%  of  the  total  solution  is  infused  during  the  first  hour,  with  infusion  of  the 
remaining  volume  (approximately  97.5%)  over  the  next  3  hours.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of 
Naglazyme in children below the age of 5 years and in patients older than 65 years have not been 
established and no dosage regimen can be recommended in these patients. 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Naglazyme  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  insufficiency  have  not 
been evaluated and no dosage regimen can be recommended in these patients. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Naglazyme  is  an  orphan  drug  whose  proposed  therapeutic  indication  is  the  long-term  enzyme 
replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of  mucopolysaccharidosis  VI 
(Matoteaux-Lamy  syndrome),  which  is  a  rare  storage  disorder  caused  by  a  deficiency  of  the 
lysosomal  hydrolase  N-acetylgalactosamine  4-sulphatase  (arylsulphatase  B,  ASB).  Reduced  or 
absent ASB activity results in an intracellular accumulation of the glycosaminoglycan dermatan 
sulphate,  which  causes  a  progressive  and  clinically  heterogeneous  disorder  with  multiple  organ 
and tissue involvement. 
Galsulfase, the active ingredient of Naglazyme, is a recombinant human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-
sulphatase  (rhASB).  It  is  a  single-chain  protein  of  56  kDa  heterogeneously  glycosylated. 
Galsulfase  uptake  by  cells  into  lysosomes  is  most  likely  mediated  by  the  binding  of  its  bis-
phosphorylated oligomannose7 oligosaccharide chains to specific mannose-6-phosphate receptors. 
Galsulfase  is  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology  in  a  CHO-derived  cell  line,  using  a 
perfusion  process,  and  purified  by  a  series  of  concentration,  column  chromatography  and 
filtration steps. The drug product is prepared by sterile filtration and aseptic filling into vials of 
the Formulated Bulk Drug Substance (FBDS). 
Naglazyme  is  provided  as  a  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  in  a  single-use  vial,  which 
contains a nominal amount of 5 mg of galsulfase in 5 mL (concentration 1 mg/mL). Galsulfase is 
formulated  with  sodium  phosphate  monobasic  monohydrate,  sodium  phosphate  dibasic 
heptahydrate,  sodium  chloride,  polysorbate  80  and  water  for  injections  .  The  drug  product  is  a 
clear to slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow solution that has to be diluted in 0.9 % 
sodium chloride solution prior to administration. 
The container closure system consists of a type I borosilicate glass vial (Ph. Eur.), a siliconized 
chlorobutyl rubber stopper (Ph. Eur.) and an aluminium seal with a polypropylene flip-off cap. 
Active Substance 
2/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Nomenclature 
INN Name:  
Compendial name:  
Chemical name:  
(rhASB) 
galsulfase 
not applicable 
recombinant human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulphatase, arylsulphatase B 
Description of the drug substance 
Galsulfase  is  a  single-chain  protein  of  495  amino  acids  /  56  kDa  after  cleavage  of  the  signal 
peptide. It contains six asparagine-linked glycosylation sites carrying a mixture of complex, high-
mannose and phosphorylated high-mannose oligosaccharides. RhASB has eight cysteine residues, 
all of which are linked by intramolecular disulfide bridging. The cysteine residue in position 53 is 
post-translationally  modified  to  formylglycine  in  endoplasmic  reticulum.  This  modification, 
found in all sulphatases, is required for the enzymatic activity. 
• 
Manufacture 
The  FBDS  is  produced  by  BioMarin,  Galli,  Novato,  California,  USA,  with  a  manufacturing 
process similar to that used for the drug substance of the centrally authorised product Aldurazyme 
(recombinant  human  L-iduronidase)  which  is  manufactured  at  the  same  facility.  This 
manufacturing site was last inspected in June 2005 by the MHRA. The GMP issues raised during 
the evaluation procedure, such as definition of batch size and pooling strategy in the production of 
the  FBDS,  and  the  deficiencies  observed  during  the  previous  inspection  carried  out  in  August 
2002  are  considered  resolved.  The  facilities  are  operated  in  current  GMP  (cGMP)  compliance, 
with standard operating procedures in place to describe all procedures and controls. 
Development genetics 
The expression plasmid pEF4S was constructed using the cDNA of rhASB and fused to the rat 
preproinsulin 5’ UTR to provide strong translation initiation. This plasmid contains a neomycin 
phosphotransferase  marker  gene  for  the  selection  of  transfected  cell  lines  using  geneticin,  the 
SV40  origin  of  replication  and  the  ampicillin  resistance  marker  gene  for  the  initial  cloning  in 
bacteria.  This  pFE4S  plasmid  was  electroporated  into  CHO-K1  cells.  After  selection  with 
geneticin, one stable clone was isolated and sub-cloned to obtain the cell line CSL-4S-342. 
Cell bank system 
A  cell  bank  system  has  been  developed  and  maintained  in  accordance  to  cGMP  and  ICH 
guidelines Q5A, Q5B and Q5D. For the construction of the Master Cell Bank (MCB), CSL-4S-
342 cells underwent a series of amplifications and aliquots of cell suspension were processed for 
storage in cryovials in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen. The MCB and the initial Working Cell 
Bank  (WCB1)  were  prepared  at  Tektagen  (now  Charles  River  Laboratories),  Malvern, 
Pennsylvania,  USA.  WCB1  was  used  to  produce  galsulfase  for  all  preclinical  studies,  Phase 1 
clinical trials and some Phase 2 clinical trials. Upon exhaustion of WCB1, a second Working Cell 
Bank WCB2 was prepared at BioReliance, Rockville, Maryland, USA, using a different serum-
free media. Foetal calf serum (FCS) and trypsin were not used in the growth and passage of the 
cell line CSL-4S-342 but FCS was used in the culture of the originator cell line CHO-K1. 
Procedures  followed  in  the  preparation  of  MCB  and  WCBs  have  been  appropriately  described. 
An  appropriate  range  of  tests  has  been  performed  for  their  characterisation.  Cells  banks  were 
extensively examined for the presence of microbial and viral contaminants, including endogenous 
retroviruses  known  to  be  present  in  CHO  cell  lines.  Genetic  identity  and  stability  studies, 
following  ICH  Guidelines  Q5B  and  Q5D,  confirmed  the  expected  genetic  characteristics  of  the 
cell line and the stability of cells over the course of the longest production run described below. 
For  commercial  production,  the  MCB  will  only  be  used  in  case  of  emergency;  otherwise  the 
company will use WCB2, as this is presently the case. The current supply of WCB2 is expected to 
last for ten years. The applicant has taken measures to store some cell bank material offsite in the 
event of any unforeseen circumstance. 
Fermentation process 
3/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
The seed train starts by the thaw of one vial of WCB (or MCB) and inoculation of its content in a 
cell culture flask. When the target density is reached, a series of amplification steps is initiated. 
Bioreactors  are  inoculated  according  to  a  parallel  or  sequential  seeding  procedure.  When  the 
target  density  is  reached,  the  harvested  cell  culture  fluid  (HCCF)  is  collected,  sampled  for 
analysis, and stored until the first step of the purification process is initiated. 
The operation and control of the fermentation process from the cell culture inoculum expansion to 
the final cell harvest are adequately described and appropriate validation data were provided. Full 
details of the cell culture raw materials, their source and control were provided. 
is 
inactivation. 
low  pH  viral 
  The  product 
Purification process 
Purification of rhASB from the HCCF involves the following steps: harvest filtration to remove 
cells and debris and concentration using an ultrafiltration system, pH adjustment and clarification, 
and column chromatography. One to three initial column chromatography cycles can be combined 
to form a single lot, which then passes through two additional orthogonal chromatography steps, 
andaccompanied  by 
then  processed  by 
ultrafiltration/dialfiltration  for  concentration  and  buffer  exchange  into  the  final  formulation 
buffer5..  Following  DNA  removal  filtration  and  0.02  µm  viral  removal  filtration,  formulation 
buffer is added to dilute the rhASB to a final protein concentration of 1 mg/mL and polysorbate 
80 is added. The FBDS is then transferred through a 0.2 µm filter into sterile storage containers 
and can be stored up to 12 months at 5 (cid:31)3(cid:31)C. 
During  the  purification  process,  pooling  can  occur  prior  to  three  key  stages:  the  initial 
ultrafiltration,  pH  adjustment  (in  conjunction  with  the  initial  column  chromatography)  and  the 
second column chromatography step. One lot of FBDS is defined as the eluate from a single run 
of the second chromatography column, and then carried down through the process. 
Appropriate information on the regeneration and sanitisation of the respective columns along with 
their  storage  conditions/solutions  has  been  provided.  Storage  conditions  for  the  process 
intermediates have been specified and validation of holding times for each intermediate has been 
performed. 
Purification  steps  have  been  designed  to  remove  process-related  impurities,  such  as  host  cell 
proteins,  retroviral  particles  and  DNA,  product-related  impurities,  such  as  aggregates  and 
degraded  products,  and  adventitious  contaminants,  such  as  viruses  and  mycoplasmas  .  Some  of 
the methods used to determine the impurity profile have not been included in the release testing of 
the FBDS and their omission has been justified. 
DNA  content  has  been  monitored  during  the  purification  of  seven  consecutive  production  lots 
manufactured at the Galli site using the current process. Conservative calculations in the worst-
case  scenario  meet  the  WHO  limit  of  <10  ng/dose.  The  justification  for  not  including  host  cell 
DNA evaluation in the release testing was considered acceptable. 
Residual  host  cell  proteins  (CHOP)  have  been  determined  at  several  points  in  the  purification 
process of three consecutive production lots, using both qualitative and quantitative methods. The 
data support the capacity of the purification process to consistently remove host cell proteins and 
the fact that production lots will meet the release specification proposed. 
Appropriate data were provided on the removal of glycerol (residual solvent used in the second 
column chromatography step) and potential column leachable materials. 
With  regard  to  product-related  impurities,  the  three  common  degradation  pathways  for  proteins 
such  as  rhASB,  oxidation,  aggregation,  and  deamidation  have  been  considered.  Forced 
degradation  studies  have  been  performed  to  show  that  rhASB  is  resistant  to  each  of  these 
pathways.  
The viral safety of rhASB has been demonstrated following a series of studies to characterize the 
production process, raw materials and each lot of rhASB. The applicant is in compliance with the 
latest  version  of  the  CHMP/CVMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting 
Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products. Cell 
banks have been satisfactorily demonstrated to be free from detectable viral contaminants. 
4/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
No animal sourced materials are used in the commercial-scale rhASB manufacturing process. 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
The  drug  substance  is  manufactured  using  a  standard  fermentation  and  purification  process.  A 
number  of  changes,  however,  have  been  made  during  product  development,  which  can  be 
grouped in four categories: 
Cell culture: the initial process was conducted using a fed-batch process. Transition to a perfusion 
process was implemented to increase productivity for Phase 2 clinical studies and beyond. 
Purification:  modifications  to  the  purification  process,  including  the  elimination  of  one 
chromatography  step  (DEAE  Sepharose),  optimization  of  the  remaining  chromatography  steps, 
and increase of the diameters of all three remaining columns were made to improve the capacity 
of the process and the purity of the product. 
Formulation: the addition of polysorbate 80 was implemented for Phase 2 studies and beyond to 
prevent particulate formation in the drug product that was observed during development. 
Facility: the process was moved from the BMK clinical facility to the Galli commercial facility to 
increase  production  capacity.  The  commercial  (Galli  facility)  process  represents  a  modified 
version of the BMK perfusion process in that longer cell culture duration and a different HCCF 
sublot pooling strategy were employed. The purification scheme remained unchanged except for 
larger column diameters for increased HCCF processing capacity. 
Product  manufactured  by  the  commercial  process  has  not  been  used  in  clinical  trials.  In  this 
respect, an issue was raised during the assessment regarding the comparability of FBDS between 
lots manufactured at the Galli site using the current commercial process and those manufactured 
for  the  clinical  studies  at  the  BMK  site  prior  to  the  final  modifications  to  the  manufacturing 
process (see below). 
Satisfactory  validation  data  have  been  provided  for  three  qualification  lots  manufactured  at  the 
Galli site with the current commercial process. Validation studies were designed to demonstrate 
the acceptability, robustness and reproducibility of the defined manufacturing process. 
Characterisation 
- Physicochemical characterisation: 
A series of standard techniques to study the protein and carbohydrate structure of rhASB has been 
employed. 
The  crystal  structure  of  rhASB  has  been  determined  by  X-ray  diffraction;  this  and  a  variety  of 
other biochemical studies have identified the amino acid residue formylglycine in position 53. 
Peptide  maps  were  produced  from  tryptic  digests  using  standard  methods.  No  significant 
structural  differences  were  detected  between  the  reference  materials  and  materials  from  the 
production lots. Peptides were identified by mass spectrometry with the exception of several non-
standard peptides that were identified by tandem mass spectrometry and were consistent with the 
rhASB sequence. 
N-terminal  amino  acid  characterisation  was  performed  using  standard  methods  (Edman 
degradation  and  mass  spectrometry  of  tryptic  peptides).  All  samples  were  found  to  be  identical 
and  consistent  with  the  predicted  nucleotide  sequence  of  the  rhASB  cDNA  used  to  prepare  the 
production  cell  line.  Two  truncated  N-terminal  variants  of  rhASB  have  been  identified.  On  the 
basis  of  the  arguments  provided  by  the  applicant,  it  was  considered  unlikely  that  the  observed 
degree of truncation would affect the clinical safety or efficacy of the product. C-terminal amino 
acid  characterisation  also  detected  smaller  amounts  of  a  variant  resulting  from  the  truncation  at 
the  C-terminus  of  rhASB.  The  applicant  committed  to  continuing  the  investigation  of  these  C-
terminal truncated forms and to providing a formal review once sufficient data are available. 
Determination of disulphide linkages demonstrated the presence of four disulphide bridges and no 
free sulphdryls. The results are consistent with crystal structure of rhASB. 
Determination  of  protein  concentration  by  UV  absorbance  and  quantitative  amino  acid  analysis 
have been performed. Amino acid composition coincided with that expected from the cDNA with 
5/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
the  exception  of  tryptophan  composition  which  was  consistently  lower  that  expected  in  all  lots 
tested. 
IEF studies showed that the charge heterogeneity of rhASB is conferred by oligosaccharides and 
that the parent protein backbone is essentially homogeneous. In addition, it appeared that rhASB 
has a high phosphorylated oligomannose content compared to that of sialic acid. 
Principal  SDS-PAGE  silver-stained  bands  observed  have  been  categorised  or  specifically 
identified,  including  degradation  products  and  host  cell  protein  impurities,  using  multiple 
techniques. 
FACE  analysis  was  used  for  the  characterisation  and  assignment  of  N-linked  oligosaccharides. 
The  most  predominant  class  of  oligosaccharides  found  on  rhASB  was  phosphorylated  high 
mannose, and the most abundant member of this class is bis-phosphorylated oligomannose7, the 
oligosaccharide  ligand  for  the  target  cell  surface  receptor.  The  other  groups  identified  are  high 
mannose  (oligomannose5,6,7)  and  complex  (sialylated,  core  fucosylated)  oligosaccharides.  The 
site-specific  glycosylation  microheterogeneity  of  rhASB  was  studied  by  the  analysis  of  tryptic 
peptide  digests  using  RP–HPLC  with  electrospray  mass  spectrometry.  The  six  consensus  N–
linked glycosylation sites on rhASB were confirmed, with an occupancy rate >99%. 
With the sialic assay method, incorporating HPAEC and pulsed amperometric detection, the only 
species identified from the acidic hydrolysis of rhASB was NeuAc. 
• 
- Biological characterisation: 
Potency  has  been  determined  by  2  methods  which  are  used  in  the  release  testing  of  the  drug 
substance  and  drug  product.  The  first  one  is  the  enzymatic  activity  assay  that  utilises  4-
methylumbelliferyl sulphate (4-MUS), a small fluorigenic substrate. This assay has been modified 
and optimised during development. The second method is the fibroblast uptake assay, a cell-based 
assay  that  demonstrates  the  receptor-mediated  endocytosis  of  rhASB  into  the  cell  in  an  active 
form. 
Specifications 
Release  specifications  for  rhASB  are  based  on  historical  manufacturing  and  stability  data 
compiled  on  21  batches  of  FBDS  produced  using  the  perfusion  process.  The  proposed 
specifications reflect the variability of both the analytical methods and the manufacturing process 
and  take  into  consideration  the  clinical  experience  gained  during  development  of  rhASB.  The 
analytical methods included in the control system are used to evaluate the identity, quality, safety, 
purity, potency, strength and composition of the FBDS, and to assure the consistency of physical, 
chemical and biological attributes of rhASB. All assays used in the release and stability testing of 
rhASB have been validated according to ICH guidelines. The current FBDS release specifications 
were  considered  acceptable  provided  that  the  applicant  commits  to  reviewing  certain  tests  and 
limits as part of follow-up measures. 
• 
Stability 
The  applicant  has  performed  real-time  and  accelerated  stability  studies  designed  in  accordance 
with ICH guidelines to monitor the time–temperature stability of cGMP lots. 
The  characteristics  included  in  stability  testing  were  chosen  based  on  method  validation  results 
and  characterisation  studies.  The  appropriateness  of  the  methods  for  indicating  the  stability  of 
rhASB FBDS has been further supported by forced-degradation studies. 
The applicant proposed a shelf life of 12 months at 5 (cid:31)3(cid:31)C for the drug substance. This has been 
supported  by  12  months  of  real-time  data  for  five  batches  of  FBDS  manufactured  using  the 
current commercial process at the Galli site and 24 months of real-time data for two batches of 
FBDS manufactured using the clinical perfusion process at the BMK site. 
The storage conditions and controls for the transportation of the FBDS from the Galli site to the 
site for manufacture of the drug product have been supported by appropriate data on stability and 
container systems. 
Medicinal Product 
6/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Naglazyme  is  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  once  weekly  over  4  hours.  The  route  and 
duration  of  administration  were  chosen  to  provide  maximum  bioavailability  of  the  enzyme  for 
lysosomal delivery. Oral administration was not considered due to concern for the stability of the 
protein within the digestive tract. 
Acidic  phosphate  buffered  saline  was  selected  as  the  Naglazyme  formulation  buffer  based  on 
experience  with  a  previous  centrally  authorised  product  (Aldurazyme)  for  which  a  similar 
buffering  system  had  been  successful.  During  pre-clinical  production  of  the  drug  product, 
particulates  were  observed  in  vials  of  drug  product.  SDS–PAGE  and  Western  blot  analysis 
indicated  that  it  was  composed  of  aggregated  galsulfase.  After  a  series  of  formulation  studies, 
polysorbate  80  was  identified  as  stabiliser  in  a  formulation  composed  of    sodium  phosphate, 
sodium  chloride  pH  5.8  (tonicity  modifier)  and  water  for  injections.  All  the  excipients  comply 
with Ph. Eur. requirements. 
In order to ensure that a 5 mL volume of solution can be extracted from the vial, an overage of 0.3 
mL is filled into the vial (total fill volume of 5.3 mL corresponding to a 6% overfill). 
• 
Manufacture of the product 
The FBDS is shipped to Hollister-Stier Laboratories, Spokane, Washington, USA for manufacture 
of the drug product. This process involves final sterile filtration using 0.2 (cid:31)m filters, filling into 
vials and preliminary labelling. Satisfactory validation data has been provided to give assurance 
on the sterile filtration, filling and capping procedures. Media fill data are supplied to support the 
aseptic process. Media fills are performed routinely. 
Hollister-Stier  was  last  inspected  in  June  2005.  The  GMP  issues  raised  during  the  evaluation 
procedure, such as definition of batch size, have been adequately addressed and it was confirmed 
that no pooling occurs at this site. The facilities are operated in current GMP compliance. 
Specifications  
Release  testing  is  performed  at  NDA  Analytics  Ltd.,  Alconbury,  Cambridgeshire,  UK,  and 
labelling, packaging and final QP release is performed at Cardinal Health, Westhoughton, Bolton 
UK. 
The  proposed  specifications  for  the  drug  product  have  been  justified  based  on  historical 
manufacturing  and  stability  data  compiled  on  17  batches  of  drug  product  using  the  perfusion 
process.  Analytical  procedures  have  been  adequately  described  and  validated.  The  current  drug 
product  specifications  were  considered  acceptable  provided  that  the  applicant  commits  to 
reviewing certain limits as part of follow-up measures. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and 
per protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of rhASB drug product. 12 
months  of  real-time  data  for  four  batches  of  drug  product  manufactured  with  the  current 
commercial process at the Galli site were provided, as well as up to 30 months of real time data 
for 3 batches of drug product manufactured at BMK with the perfusion process. Based on the data 
provided, the approvable shelf life for the drug product is 12 months at 5 (cid:31)3(cid:31)C. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general,  the  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation 
comply with existing guidelines.  
The cell bank system used for the manufacture of the drug substance is appropriately described 
and an appropriate range of tests has been performed. The fermentation and purification processes 
of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately  controlled  and  validated.  The  applicant  has  provided  full 
details of the cell culture raw materials, their source and control.  
An issue was raised during the assessment regarding the definition of batch size and the pooling 
strategy.  Lots  produced  to  date  have  varied  widely  in  size  dependent  on  manufacturing  facility 
7/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
and processing equipment. The applicant committed to reviewing the range of batch sizes of the 
FBDS  once  20  lots  will  be  manufactured.  The  applicant  satisfactorily  clarified  the  pooling 
procedures across the entire production of Naglazyme and the controls employed, including batch 
release testing of individual FBDS and pooled batches.  
Issues  regarding  column  sanitisation  and  viral  validation  studies  raised  during  the  assessment 
have  been  resolved.  It  was  noted  that  only  60  cm  columns  for  the  orthogonal  chromatography 
steps  (the  initial  step  uses  an  80  cm  column)  could  be  approved  at  this  stage  for  the  current 
manufacturing process. 
The drug substance has been well characterised with regard to its physicochemical and biological 
properties, using state-of-the-art methods. The current FBDS release specifications are considered 
acceptable but the applicant committed to reviewing certain tests and limits as part of the follow-
up  measures.  This  includes  the  development  of  a  quantitative  charge  heterogeneity  assay  as  a 
replacement  for  IEF,  the  development  of  an  alternative  assay  to  replace  FACE  analysis  for  the 
control  of  oligosaccharide  consistency,  the  revision  of  the  current  specification  limits  for 
polysorbate  80,  sialic  acid  levels  and potency measured by the optimised 4-MUS activity assay 
once data from 20 batches manufactured using the current process will be available. The applicant 
also  committed  to  continuing  the  investigation  of  C-terminal  truncated  forms  and  to  provide  a 
formal review of available data and specifications. 
A number of changes have been made during product development including the manufacturing 
site,  manufacturing  process,  procedures,  test  methods  for  the  activity  assay  and  reference 
standards.  One  major  objection  had  been  identified  and  concerned  the  comparability  of  FBDS 
between  lots  manufactured  at  the  Galli  site  using  the  current  commercial  process  and  those 
manufactured  for  the  clinical  studies  at  the  BMK  site  prior  to  the  final  modifications  to  the 
manufacturing process. Product produced by the commercial process has not been used in clinical 
trials. With the responses to the CHMP Day 120 list of questions and Day 180 list of outstanding 
issues, the applicant made progress towards demonstrating comparability. Given the impossibility 
to  generate  additional  characterisation  data  due  to  age  and  availability  of  BMK  material,  the 
applicant provided a review of characterisation data previously submitted, raw data from release 
assays for five BMK batches of bulk drug substance used in Phase 3 and extension studies, and a 
side-by-side  comparison  of  quantitative  results  at  both  manufacturing  sites.  The  applicant 
confirmed that they will include additional glycan monitoring in their ongoing stability program. 
Given  that  the  data  currently  available  does  not  raise  any  significant  concerns  and  that  the 
applicant also provided justification of how their clinical post-marketing surveillance programme 
will  evaluate  comparability,  this  issue  was  considered  resolved.  However,  it  was  recommended 
that the applicant should inform the CHMP promptly if post-marketing surveillance data indicates 
that a comparability concern regarding the product manufactured at the Galli site and the current 
clinical lots, such as immunogenicity, arises. 
The manufacturing process of the drug product has been sufficiently described and validated. The 
quality of the drug product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. However, 
the  applicant  committed  to  revising  the  specification  limits  for  the  4-MUS  activity  assay  and 
polysorbate  80  once  sufficient  batch  data  are  available,  in  line  with  reviewed  FBDS 
specifications. 
Based on the stability data provided, a shelf life of 12 months at 5 (cid:31)3(cid:31)C has been granted for the 
drug product. An increase in shelf life may be considered post-approval by means of a variation 
once further real-time data on the product manufactured using the current commercial process has 
been  obtained.  The  applicant  agreed  to  introduce  sialic  acid  testing  and  any  other  appropriate 
method of monitoring the oligosaccharide profile into the stability programme at suitable multiple 
time points for at least three lots of drug product manufactured from three different lots of FBDS. 
It was pointed out that any new oligosaccharide test introduced at release testing should also be 
evaluated  with  respect  to  stability  testing.  The  requirement  for  such  tests  in  the  stability 
programme may be reviewed once sufficient batches have been tested to establish their stability 
indicating  potential.  The  applicant  committed  to  providing  on  an  ongoing  basis  completed 
stability reports for the drug substance and drug product. 
8/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
The  viral  safety  and  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents,  including  TSE,  have  been 
sufficiently assured.  
Except for a number of quality points, which will be addressed as part of post-approval follow-up 
measures, the quality of Naglazyme has been adequately demonstrated. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
The lysosomal enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulphatase (arylsulphatase B, ASB) is deficient 
in patients with MPS VI, resulting in an accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in tissues 
throughout the body that leads to widespread cellular, tissue and organ dysfunction. Recombinant 
human ASB (rhASB) is intended to replace ASB and reduce the manifestations of the disease by 
increasing the catabolism of GAGs.  
• 
Primary Pharmacodynamics (In Vitro/In Vivo) 
In vitro studies have shown that rhASB is taken up by normal and MPS VI patient fibroblasts via 
a  mannose-6-phosphate  receptor.  The  mannose-6-  phosphate  receptor  is  present  on  most  cells. 
Once bound to the receptor, the enzyme is transported by endocytosis to the lysosomes, where it 
hydrolyses  the  sulphate  ester  from  N-acetylgalactosamine  4-sulphate  residues  at  the  end  of  the 
GAGs such as dermatan sulphate.  
The  in  vivo  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  in  the  feline  model  of  MPS  VI,  which  has 
similar  aetiology  and  morphological  characteristics/disease  pathology  to  the  human  disease. 
Similarities 
include  facial  dysmorphia,  corneal  clouding,  reduced  body  weight,  bone 
abnormalities and reduced cervical spine flexibility, mild hepatosplenomegaly, thickened cardiac 
valves  and  the  absence  of  CNS  lesions,  although  there  are  also  differences  such  as  the  lack  of 
respiratory effects in cats, and differences in patterns of urinary GAG excretion.  
Some of the studies also included an evaluation of safety and/or tissue distribution of rhASB. The 
main breeding colony of MPS VI cats in the world is at the Lysosomal Storage Disease Research 
Unit,  Department  of  Chemical  Pathology,  Women’s  and  Children’s  Hospital,  North  Adelaide, 
Australia.  There  is  no  commercial  supplier  of  these  cats,  and  the  pharmacology  studies  were 
conducted  under  the  supervision  of  Dr.  J  Hopwood,  who  maintains  the  colony  at  the  Unit  in 
Adelaide. The studies were designed as research studies rather than for regulatory submission and 
were  non-GLP  compliant.  However  this  is  acceptable  as  the  studies  have  been  conducted  in  a 
proper  scientific  manner,  and  despite  the  low  numbers  of  animals  used,  the  results  appear 
consistent across studies.  
The  pharmacology  studies  ranged  from  5  weeks  to  20  months  in  duration.  Doses  and  dose 
schedules were varied. Most of the cats received rhASB weekly; 3 cats in an early study received 
enzyme biweekly for part or all of their treatment. Doses ranged from 0.2 to 5.0 mg/kg rhASB but 
most of the cats received 1 mg/kg rhASB, although no rationale is presented as to why this dose 
was used more frequently. In the earlier studies, rhASB was administered by bolus IV injection, 
and in the later studies, the drug was administered by intravenous infusion over about two hours.  
There were also changes in the production process and manufacturing site, as well as a change in 
formulation,  during  development:  In  the  initial  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies,  rhASB  was 
formulated in phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Due to the formation of aggregates of rhASB, the 
product  was  re-formulated.  The  addition  of  polysorbate  20  or  polysorbate  80  (0.001%)  did  not 
appear to affect the pharmacological properties of rhASB in the feline MPS VI model, although 
only 4 cats were used. The formulation was subsequently changed to acidic phosphate buffered 
saline  (10  mM  sodium  phosphate,  150 mM  sodium  chloride,  pH  5.8)  containing  0.005% 
polysorbate 80. This formulation was used in the remaining non-clinical studies and is the final 
formulation. 
Despite  the  low  number  and  variability  of  the  animals  used  in  the  studies  and  the  changes  in 
manufacture  and  formulation,  treatment  of  MPS  VI  cats  with  rhASB  resulted  in  a  reduction  in 
urinary  GAG  levels  and  reduction  of  lysosomal  GAG  storage  in  a  number  of  tissues  including 
liver,  skin  and  kidney,  although  there  was  no  effect  in  cornea  or  cartilage.  In  some  studies, 
9/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
skeletal pathology was reduced, producing more normalised bone dimensions and more uniform 
bone density. Greater mobility and flexibility were seen in some studies, and in others there was 
some improvement in the neurological symptoms caused by spinal cord compression.  
Although the dose-ranging was restricted in the feline MPS VI model due to the limited number 
of  available  animals,  the  studies  did  show  dose-dependent  pharmacological  effects  in  the 
reduction in MPS VI disease symptoms. There was minimal effect at 0.2mg/kg/week, with a clear 
improvement at 1 mg/kg/week and a slightly greater effect at 5.0 mg/kg/week. However, only one 
cat  was  treated  at  0.2  mg/kg  and  there  was  no  dose  intermediate  between  0.2  and  1  mg/kg 
administered weekly. The lowest dose to produce significant pharmacological effects in this study 
was  1  mg/kg/week.  The  pharmacological  response  to  treatment  with  the  homologous  feline 
protein  (rfASB)  at  1  mg/kg/week  was  comparable  to  that  of  rhASB  at  5.0  mg/kg  in  MPS  VI-
affected  cats.  This  suggests  that  the  lowest  pharmacologically  active  dose  of  rhASB  in  cats  (1 
mg/kg/week) may be more active in the homologous (human) species. 
Antibodies to rhASB were detected in MPS VI cats treated with rhASB, although there was much 
variability between animals with respect to the timing of development of antibodies and the levels 
produced.  There  was  no  correlation  between  the  presence  of  antibodies  and  apparent  clinical 
response.  In  some  animals,  the  antibody  level  fell  despite  continuing  treatment,  suggesting 
tolerance.  In  one  study  (ASB-PC-001),  the  cat  that  developed  high  anti-rhASB  antibody  titres 
showed a reversal of clinical improvement; plasma from this cat inhibited rhASB activity in vitro 
confirming  the  neutralising  property  of  these  antibodies.  However  the  same  cat  subsequently 
improved clinically once again, in the presence of fluctuating levels of antibodies. No other cases 
of neutralising antibodies were reported in the non-clinical pharmacology studies. In Study ASB-
PC-005,  elevated  anti-rhASB  antibody  titres  in  some  animals  correlated  with  abnormal  clinical 
signs during infusions, and may have been responsible for reductions in rhASB activity seen in a 
number  of  tissues.  However,  the  titres  did  not  appear  to  correlate  with  disease  progression. 
Dialysed  plasma  from  treated  cats  inhibited  rhASB  in  vitro,  although  a  similar  effect  was  seen 
with dialysed plasma from untreated normal cats. Antibodies were not produced in studies where 
treatment  was  started  in  newborn  cats,  or  where  the  homologous  protein,  rfASB,  was 
administered. 
There  were  some  infusion-related  mild  to  moderate  anaphylactoid-type  reactions  to  the 
heterologous  protein  in  some  studies.  These  reactions  were  managed  in  most  cases  by 
antihistamine treatment or by slowing the infusion rate. These reactions were not seen in the cats 
that were treated from birth. Treatment of the cats from birth also appeared to have more effect on 
reducing disease pathology, particularly skeletal pathology, than when treatment was started when 
the cats were at least three months old.  
• 
Secondary Pharmacodynamics / Safety Pharmacology 
Safety pharmacology parameters were monitored in the single-dose toxicity study in dogs and the 
repeated-dose toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys. There were no adverse effects of rhASB on 
blood  pressure,  body  temperature,  respiration  rate,  ECG,  blood  coagulation  or  urinalysis 
parameters in dog or monkey, nor any effect on blood oxygenation in monkeys.  
• 
Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions 
No studies were performed, and this was considered acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Absorption and bioavailability are complete as the administration route is intravenous. 
Three  comparative  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  dogs  showed  that  enzyme  produced  by  different 
production runs, at different sites and from different run lengths of the same process showed that 
they were equivalent with respect to pharmacokinetic parameters, although the different runs from 
the same process were similar rather than strictly equivalent as the lower limit of the confidence 
interval fell slightly below the equivalence window.  
10/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
• 
Distribution  
Tissue distribution has been investigated in five of the pharmacology studies in MPS VI-affected 
cats. rhASB was widely distributed into tissues, with the largest proportion localised to the liver 
in  all  studies.  There  were  also  significant  levels  in  the  spleen,  lung,  kidney,  heart,  skin,  aorta, 
cerebrum, cerebellum and lymph nodes in one study, compared to levels in a normal control cat. 
The tissue half-lives ranged from 2.4 to 4.2 days at 1 mg/kg. Low, but detectable levels were seen 
in these tissues (except heart) up to seven days following dosing. This suggests that the weekly 
clinical dosing frequency is reasonable. 
In  other  studies,  the  levels  found  in  heart,  skin,  mesenteric  lymph  nodes,  aorta,  cerebrum  and 
cerebellum  were  lower  or  undetectable.  rhASB  was  found  in  the  cornea  in  only  one  study,  and 
was not detected in the cartilage in any of the studies. 
In one study, a reduced enzyme activity in a number of tissues in one cat and some tissues in the 
other three cats corresponded with increased antibody titres in these animals.  
Two-hour  infusions  appeared  to  increase  enzyme  levels  in  some  tissues  and  organs  over  those 
observed after the 15-minute infusion. The inclusion of polysorbate 20 or polysorbate 80 in the 
formulation did not appear to affect the pattern of distribution, pharmacokinetics or pharmacology 
of  rhASB  in  MPS  VI  cats.  The  polysorbate  was  included  at  0.001%  in  this  study,  as  compared 
with  the  0.005%  polysorbate  80  that  is  included  in  the  final  formulation.  However,  the  toxicity 
studies  (and  therefore  toxicokinetics)  were  conducted  with  the  final  formulation  containing 
0.005% polysorbate 80.  
• 
Metabolism And Excretion 
No metabolism studies have been conducted as the product is eliminated via proteolysis.  
In  normal  cats,  rhASB  is  cleared  rapidly  from  the  plasma,  with  a  half-life  of  about  15 minutes 
following  an  intravenous  dose  of  1  mg/kg.  As  mentioned  previously,  the  tissue  half-lives  are 
approximately 2 to 4 days at 1 mg/kg. 
Toxicology 
The species used in the toxicology studies (rat, dog and cynomolgus monkey) are appropriate in 
that they all express the mannose-6-phosphate receptor that is required for the uptake of rhASB. 
The doses and dose regimens used in the studies were based on non-clinical pharmacology studies 
in the feline MPS VI model.  
• 
Single Dose Toxicity 
Acute toxicity studies in rats and dogs were conducted in compliance with GLP at doses up to 10 
mg/kg  and  20  mg/kg,  respectively.  The  only  findings  were  some  transient  infusion-associated 
swelling and reddening of the face and paws. In the dog study, this also occurred in some control 
animals and was attributed to the presence of polysorbate 80 in the formulation. Exposure in the 
dog study was greater than proportional to dose. At the high dose (males and females combined) 
exposure was 67 times that in man following a dose of 1mg/kg.  
• 
Repeat Dose Toxicity (With Toxicokinetics) 
to  moderately 
A  27-week  repeated-dose  study  was  conducted  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Treatment-related 
findings  were  limited  to  microscopic  effects  in  the  liver,  without  correlating  changes in clinical 
chemistry, at mid and high dose (subacute to chronic periportal inflammation with minimal bile 
duct hyperplasia), adrenal in high dose males (slight cortical atrophy) and skin in females at all 
doses. The skin findings in females (serocellular/pustular epidermitis) were often associated with 
and 
minimal 
acanthosis/hyperkeratosis, findings that were also seen in males at all dose levels. These findings 
were reversible after a 2-week recovery period. Toxicokinetic analysis showed sex differences in 
exposure, with higher levels in males than females at the high dose and at all doses at the last time 
point  (26  weeks).  Increases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  were  generally  greater  than  proportional  to 
increase  in  dose.  There  was  some  evidence  of  accumulation  in  males  at  3  and  10mg/kg, 
particularly over the first half of the study. Exposure at the high dose was 21 to 32 times (week 1) 
or  24  to  39  times  (week  26) that in man following a dose of 1mg/kg. These safety margins are 
lymphocytes, 
eosinophils, 
histiocytes, 
increased 
11/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
reasonable, but no NOEL was established in this study given the findings in the skin at the low 
dose. At the mid-dose (3mg/kg), exposure was only 2 to 2.5 times that in man following a 1mg/kg 
dose, and at the low dose, AUC0-∞ was not calculable.  
Anti-rhASB antibodies were detected in all treated monkeys by week 13. However, the antibody 
titre did not appear to correlate with plasma rhASB concentration or with the severity of the test 
article-related microscopic findings. 
The  applicant  was  asked  to  comment  on  the  clinical  relevance  and  possible  cause  of  the  skin 
findings. The applicant’s suggestion that the findings were essentially an exaggerated form of the 
clinical  findings  (infusion-associated  reactions)  and  that  various  inflammatory  mediators, 
including histamine from mast cells, are presumed to participate in the pathology of the dermal 
lesions in monkeys was accepted by the CHMP. 
• 
Genotoxicity And Carcinogenicity 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted, which is in accordance with 
the  Note 
for  Guidance  on  Preclinical  Safety  Evaluation  of  Biotechnology-derived 
Pharmaceuticals. 
• 
Reproductive And Developmental Studies 
that  required 
A combined fertility and embryo-fetal developmental study has been conducted in rats. Doses up 
to 3 mg/kg/day had no effect on body weight, food consumption, fertility or mating parameters, 
male sex organ weights or sperm parameters, caesarian-sectioning or litter parameters. There were 
also no effects on gross external, visceral or skeletal observations. Toxicokinetic analysis was not 
conducted as part of the study. The applicant has committed to conduct a toxicokinetic study in 
pregnant rats as a post-marketing measure.  
In  the  dose  range-finding  study  that  was  conducted  prior  to  the  reproductive  toxicity  study, 
anaphylactoid-type  reactions  were  seen 
treatment  with  diphenhydramine 
hydrochloride.  Infusion-associated  effects  in  the  definitive  study  were  not  severe  enough  to 
require  similar  treatment.  Anaphylactoid-type  reactions  were  also  seen  in  some  of  the  early 
pharmacology  studies  in  MPS  VI  cats.  The  effects  were  seen  in  the  definitive  study,  but 
observation  revealed  that  these  were  not  life-threatening  and  decreased  in  severity  on  repeated 
administration of rhASB, therefore treatment with DPH was not initiated in the definitive study. 
An embryo-fetal developmental study in rabbits, and a peri- and post-natal study have not been 
conducted. Mannose 6-phosphate receptors have been reported to be present in the placenta and 
developing fetus (Wenk et al, 1991), and therefore rhASB may cross the placenta and enter the 
fetus. 
The  applicant  plans  to  conduct  a  dose-range  finding  study  in  rabbits  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment to assess the feasibility of conducting a definitive study in this species. 
The  applicant  justified  the  absence  of  a  pre-  and  post-natal  study  on  the  basis  that  the 
immunogenicity  in  rats  would  confound  the  interpretation  of  the  results.  Both  the  treatment  of 
anaphylactoid-type  reactions  and  the  possibility  of  immune  complex  formation  may  have  an 
impact  on  the  physiological  processes  involved  in  pregnancy  and  lactation.  The  applicant  has 
committed to collect information on human pregnancy in all subjects who become pregnant whilst 
on treatment, through the Clinical Surveillance Programme  
• 
Local Tolerance 
Local tolerance of the product, as assessed during the toxicity studies, was acceptable.  
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment 
The product being a protein is not considered to pose a risk to the environment. 
Discussion on the Non-Clinical Aspects 
The feline MPS VI model has similar pathology to the human MPS VI disease and has been used 
to  investigate  the  effects  of  rhASB  on  various  manifestation  of  the  disease  such  as  lysosomal 
storage,  urinary  GAG  excretion,  body  weight,  physical  appearance,  mobility  and  flexibility,  as 
12/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
well as any possible immunological effects resulting from the infusion of a heterologous protein. 
These  studies  have  shown  that  rhASB  can  reduce  lysosomal  GAG  storage  and  improve  some 
symptoms of the disease, depending on the dose and dose regimen and the age of the cat at start 
of  treatment.  In  this  model,  rhASB  had  no  effect  on  cartilage  or  cornea.  Based  on  the 
pharmacological  effects  in  the  feline  MPS  VI  model  at  a  dose  of  1mg/kg/week,  and  the  tissue 
half-life of rhASB of 2 to 4 days, the clinical dose of 1 mg/kg/week appears reasonable. However, 
given that the human enzyme was less effective in the feline disease, a lower dose of rhASB may 
have  been  effective  in  patients.  As  some  clinical  benefits  were  observed  at  0.2mg/kg/week  in 
Phase 1, the minimally effective dose may indeed be between 0.2 and 1mg/kg/week , but this was 
not investigated. Based on the results of the Phase 1 study which showed more rapid and more 
pronounced uGAG reductions, the 1 mg/kg dose was selected for the clinical development by the 
applicant. The clinical dose will be kept under review as a post-marketing commitment. 
In the chronic monkey study, liver and skin effects were observed. These findings were reversible 
after a 2-week recovery period, however, potential reversibility would not be relevant should the 
effects  occur  clinically,  given  the  chronic  nature  of  the  treatment.  Exposure  at  the  high  dose 
(10 mg/kg/week)  was  21  to  39  times  that  in  man  following  a  dose  of  1mg/kg.  The  lack  of 
significant liver abnormalities in the clinical studies provides reassurance, however liver toxicity 
will be kept under review as a post-marketing commitment.  
The fact that a full package of reproductive toxicity studies has not been conducted is mentioned 
in  section  5.3  of  the  SPC.  Post-authorisation  commitments  have  been  agreed  for  further 
reproductive toxicity studies with toxicokinetics and clinical monitoring of pregnant women. 
4. 
Clinical Aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical development program for rhASB consisted of 2 controlled studies (ASB-00-01 and 
ASB-03-05),  1  uncontrolled  study  (ASB-01-04),  and  a  long-term,  open-label  extension  of  the 
ASB-00-01 controlled study. 
All  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  weekly  intravenous  administration  of 
rhASB. There were also 2 special studies conducted in support of rhASB development. One was a 
clinical survey study (ASB-00-02), an observational study designed to collect normative data in 
121 MPS  VI  patients,  and  the  other  is  an  ongoing  investigator-sponsored  study  of  rhASB 
treatment of a newborn with MPS VI and a 3-year old MPS VI-affected sibling. 
Multiple  clinical  aspects  of  this  heterogeneous  disease,  reflective  of  the  common  clinical 
manifestations  of  MPS  VI,  were  assessed.  The  primary  endpoints  of  interest  were  endurance-
based measures such as the 6- or 12-Minute Walk Test and Stair Climb Test. 
These  measures  were  considered  appropriate  given  the  very  small  patient  population  (estimated 
< 1100  patients  in  the  developed  world)  with  multiple  functional  deficits  (cardiovascular, 
pulmonary, and joint mobility), each of which might improve only modestly during the course of 
a  trial.  Impaired  endurance  was  documented  in  all  patients  assessed  in  a  121-patient  Survey 
Study.  In  addition,  the  changes  in  lysosomal  storage/accumulation,  the  underlying  biochemical 
manifestation of the disease pathophysiology, were measured by following urinary GAG levels. 
Joint  mobility,  indirectly  affected  by  the  accumulation  of  GAGs in the joints and skeleton, was 
assessed by measuring by shoulder flexion, extension, and lateral rotation. 
Details of studies are briefly outlined below. 
Controlled Studies:  
ASB–00–01, a 24 week, double-blind, two-dose level (0.2 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg) Phase 1 / 2 Study 
in 7 patients, with long term treatment at 1 mg/kg, for which efficacy and safety data up to Week 
144 are reported 
ASB–03–05,  a  24  week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  level  Phase  3  Study  (19 patients 
randomized to rhASB and 20 patients randomized to placebo) for which efficacy and safety data 
up to Week 24 are reported in this application. 
13/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Uncontrolled Study: 
ASB–01–04, an open-label, Phase 2 Study in 10 patients for whom efficacy and safety data up to 
Week 72 are reported. 
Special Studies: 
ASB–00–02,  a  completed  Survey study of 121 MPS VI subjects characterizing clinical, genetic 
and biochemical aspects of the disease; 
An investigator-sponsored study of the rhASB treatment of 2 siblings, a female who was 3 years 
and 7 months at enrolment, and her 2–month old brother, was initiated in October 7, 2003. This 
study constitutes the first attempt to assess the benefits of initiating treatment with rhASB close to 
the time of birth, and of comparing the progression of disease in the infant to the progression of 
disease in the older affected sibling prior to rhASB treatment. 
A table of all clinical studies is given below: 
Table: Summary of all Clinical Studies 
Study 
Design 
Study 
Center 
Location/No
. of Patients 
Completion 
Status/Stud
y Dates 
Study 
Objectives 
Treatment 
Doses  (IV 
infusion) 
Duration 
of 
Treatmen
t (weeks) 
of 
No. 
Patients 
Entered/ 
Evaluable 
Protocol 
and 
Clinical 
Study 
Report 
No. 
ASB-03-
05 
ASB-00-
01 
USA:6 
Germany:8 
England:6 
Brazil:8 
France:5 
Portugal:6 
USAA6 
Austria:1 
3 
Phase 
Double 
Blind, 
Placebo-
Controlled, 
Randomized 
Study 
1/2 
Phase 
Double-
Blind 
Randomized
, 
Dose 
Comparison 
Study, 
followed  by 
an 
Open-
Label 
Extension 
Study 
39/39 
19 
rhASB 
20 
placebo 
to 
to 
7/6 
4to 
mg,kg 
3 
to 
mg/kg 
0.2 
1 
144 
(this 
report) 
Completed 
21Jul03 
8APR04 
to 
Safety 
efficacy 
and 
24 
1  mg/kg 
once 
weekly 
study 
Double-
Blind 
complete. 
Open-Label 
Extension 
Study 
ongoing 
26SEP00 
16OCT03 
is 
to
Comparison  of 
safety 
and 
efficacy  for  2 
dosages 
of 
rhASB; 
Long-term 
safety 
efficacy 
and 
0.2mg/kg 
vs. 1 mg/kg 
once 
weekly  for 
24  weeks. 
24-
After 
week 
analysis, 
patients 
assigned  to 
the 
0.2 
mg/kg dose 
were 
transitione
d  to  the  1 
mg/kg dose 
1  mg/kg 
once 
weekly 
Phase 
2 
Open-Label, 
Non-
randomized 
Study 
Survey 
Study 
ASB-01-
04 
and 
ASB-00-
02 
ASB-03-
05 
USA;5 
Australia:5 
Ongoing 
29  MAR  02 
through 
20 
DEC 03 
Safety 
and 
efficacy,  Long-
term  safety  and 
efficacy 
USA:27 
Germany:29 
England:15 
Australia:11 
Brazil:28 
France:7 
Portugal:6 
Completed 
Establish  range 
and  diversity  of 
clinical 
symptomatology 
in  patients  with 
MPS VI 
(this 
72 
report) 
10/10 
None 
None 
123/121* 
14/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Protocol 
and 
Clinical 
Study 
Report 
No. 
None 
Study 
Design 
Study 
Center 
Location/No
. of Patients 
Completion 
Status/Stud
y Dates 
Study 
Objectives 
Treatment 
Doses  (IV 
infusion) 
Duration 
of 
Treatmen
t (weeks) 
of 
No. 
Patients 
Entered/ 
Evaluable 
Sibling 
Study 
Australia:2 
Ongoing 
Investigator-
sponspored 
Study 
and 
Safety 
in  2 
efficacy 
with 
siblings 
MPS  VI, 
a 
newborn  and  a 
3-year  7-month 
old 
32 
2 
1  mg/kg 
once 
weekly 
*2 patients were found to have a disease other than MPS VI. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  rhASB  have  been  characterized  in  30  patients  with  MPS  VI  from  PK 
studies  nested  in  the  three  clinical  studies  of  safety  and  efficacy:  ASB–00-01-PK  (Phase1/2,  6 
patients), ASB–01–04-PK (Phase 2, 10 patients), and ASB-03-05-PK (Phase 3, 14 patients). PK 
data have not been collected in normal volunteers. This is acceptable given the rarity of disease 
and the inappropriateness of using rhASB in healthy volunteers. 
In Study ASB-00-01 (Phase 1/2), rhASB was administered at doses of 0.2 or 1 mg/kg/week and 
the dose in the Phase 2 Study ASB-01-04 and Phase 3 (ASB-03-05) studies was 1 mg/kg/week. 
All three studies included pharmacokinetic assessments at various intervals through 24 weeks of 
double-blind treatment.  
In  addition,  a  comparison  of  the  commercial  and  the  clinical  processes  of  rhASB  were  done  in 
study  ASB-XO-001  which  is  a  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  the  open-label  extension  of  studies 
ASB–00–01 (Phase 1/2) and ASB–01–04 (Phase 2). The 4 patients in the Phase 1/2 study were 
switched  to  the  commercial  process  between  179-188  weeks  and  the  10  patients of the Phase 2 
study were switched to the commercial process between 98-177 weeks respectively. 
Analytical Methods 
The  following  bioanalytical  methods  were  developed  and  qualified/validated  during  the  rhASB 
clinical development program: 
Plasma  concentrations  of  rhASB,  were  measured  using  a  sandwich  ELISA  method.  Reported 
values are rhASB concentrations (ng/mL) in undiluted plasma. The lower limit of quantitation for 
this assay is 33.75 ng/mL. 
Anti–ASB  (IgG)  antibodies  using  a  sandwich  ELISA  method.  The  lower  limit  of quantification 
for the assay was 0.2 OD/µL serum. 
Total  urinary  GAG  (sulfated  glycosaminoglycans)  excretion  were  measured  by  an  automated 
system  based  on  a  spectrophotometric  detection  (A592  nm)  of  metachromatic  changes  in  1,9-
dimethylmethylene-blue (DMMB) that occur after the formation of the GAG-DMMB complexes. 
The results were normalised with the concentration of creatinine in the urine. 
A  Neutralizing  Antibody  Assay  was  developed  using  a  sensitive  and  specific  rhASB  activity-
inhibition assay. However, due to a lack of a positive control from a patient sample, the assay is 
not fully validated. The applicant committed to developing and validating an alternative assay in 
post-authorisation.  
A  direct  immunoassay  (ASB  IgE  ELISA)  was  developed  for  use  in  detecting  the  presence  of 
rhASB–specific  IgE  antibodies  in  human  serum.  The  assay  involves  the  binding  of  the  rhASB 
drug substance to an ELISA multiwell plate, followed by a serum binding step and an antibody 
detection step with an HRP–conjugated affinity-purified goat antibody specific for human IgE. 
• 
Absorption and Bioavailability 
Galsulfase being administered intravenously, a 100% bioavailability can be assumed 
15/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
• 
Bioequivalence  
Based  on  Cmax,  AUC0-t,  and  urinary  GAGs,  the  clinical  and  commercial  materials  appear  to  be 
equivalent. However, there was a possible 9% increase in AUC0-∞with the commercial material. 
The individual patient anti-rhASB antibodies measured at the time of the last administration of the 
clinical  material  and  after  the  administrations  of  the  commercial  material  showed  no  change  in 
antibody level. 
As  for  the  change  in  the  manufacturing  process  due  to  polysorbate  80  with  respect  to  PK 
appears to increase and those for CL  
parameters from week 84, although mean values for AUC 
decrease  by  approximately  25%  ,  there  is  substantial  overlap  of  the  individual  values  and  the 
small number of patients precludes a firm  conclusion to be drawn regarding the equivalence of  
pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  rhASB  produced  by  the  original  and  modified  process  (see 
Quality section). 
• 
Distribution and Elimination 
The main pharmacokinetic characteristics in patients with MPS VI (n=13) receiving 1 mg/kg of 
galsulfase as a 4 hour infusion/week at 24 weeks are shown in the table below. 
T½ 
Cmax - AUC 
Distribution  
Metabolism 
Elimination 
• 
Elimination 
T½= 22.8 (± 10.7) min 
Cmax = 2,357 (± 1,560) ng/ml ; AUC0-t=  5,860  (± 4,184) h × ng/ml 
Vz=316 (± 752) ml/kg 
Peptide hydrolysis 
CL=7.9 (± 14.7) ml/min/kg 
The metabolic degradation of rhASB occurs through peptide hydrolysis. 
• 
Dose Proportionality and Time Dependencies 
The pharmacokinetics of rhASB were not linear between 0.2 and 1 mg/kg/week as demonstrated 
by  an  increase  in  AUC0-t  far  in  excess  of  the  5–fold  increase  in  dose  in  the  Phase  1/2  Study. 
Nevertheless no PK parameter other than AUC could be estimated for the 0.2mg/kg dose. 
In the phase 1/2 study, the absence of values for AUC∞, CL, Vz and t1/2 in the lower dose group, 
together  with  the  variable  effect  of  antibodies  on  the  plasma  concentration  and  ELISA  and  the 
small  number  of  patients  in  both  groups,  complicated  a  definitive  assessment  of  the  PK 
parameters  relating  to  a  dose  effect  or  indeed  a  single  dose.  Accordingly,  no  firm  conclusions 
could be drawn. 
The  AUCo-t  and  AUC∞  between  weeks  1  and  subsequent  weeks  in  the  phase  2  study  are 
significantly  different.  Although  a  specific  mechanism  for  this  difference  is  not  elucidated,  the 
hypothesis is that clearance is more rapid and AUC is reduced at week 1 relative to subsequent 
dose  intervals  and  are  likely  related  to  the  rapid  uptake  by  cells  deficient  in  the  enzyme. 
Following 24 weeks of rhASB treatment, steady-state conditions are presumably in place and are 
reflected in Week 24 PK parameters that are comparable to those from Week 2. 
• 
Special Populations 
No studies have been performed with rhASB in patients with renal or hepatic impairment since 
neither of these conditions are associated per se with MPS VI, and the expected metabolism of the 
drug is through peptide hydrolysis. 
The effects of age and gender on the PK of rhASB  was examined by graphically comparing the 
individual patient values for AUC, CL Vz, and t½ at Week 24, the end of double–blind treatment 
in  the  three  studies.  No  apparent  differences  were  observed,  although  the  number  of  patients  is 
small. 
16/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Immunogenicity 
The  development  of  anti-ASB  IgG  antibodies  was  assessed,  at  a  minimum,  at  6-week  intervals 
during each of the clinical studies. 
Initial  evidence  of  antibody  development  typically  appeared  following  4–8  weeks  of  treatment. 
Antibody levels in 14 of 34 patients did not exceed 2.0 OD/µL at any time during the course of 
their treatment with rhASB. Among patients completing at least 24 weeks of rhASB treatment, 1 
of 6 (16.7%) from Study ASB–00–01, 3 of 10 (30%) from Study ASB-01-04, and 6 of 19 (31.6%) 
from  Study  ASB–03–05  developed  antibody  levels  (cid:31)10  OD/µL.  For  patients  developing  these 
higher  antibody  levels,  an  initial  increase  to  (cid:31)2.0  OD/µL  typically  occurred  between  Weeks  6 
and 12 of treatment. 
In the Phase 3 study, with respect to the overall relationships between CL, Vz and antibody levels 
in  those  patients  with  high  antibody  levels,  it  was  not  entirely  clear  if  this  is  an  effect  of  the 
antibody  on  the  clearance  and  distribution  of  rhASB  or  interference  of  the  antibody  with  the 
ELISA,  resulting  in  apparently  lower  plasma  concentrations  and  thus  higher  CL.  The  effect  of 
outliers  on  the  statistical  analysis  of  the  results,  is  further  complicated  by  the  small  number  of 
patients. Two of the 3 patients with high antibody levels had significant reduction in urinary GAG 
levels,  while  the  remaining  patient  did  show  a  smaller  reduction  in  GAG  level.  The  exact 
mechanism  for  the  variability  of  the  effects  of  antibody  on  the  ELISA,  AUC  and  urinary  GAG 
levels  is  not  fully  understood,  but  could  be  supported  by  the  high  genetic  variability  of  the 
patients  (>  40  different  genetic  mutations  in  the  clinical  trials).  However,  the  occurrence  of 
neutralizing antibodies cannot be excluded. Therefore, high antibody levels will be monitored as 
part  of  the  clinical  surveillance  programme  with  a  view  to  determining  effects  on  efficacy  and 
urinary GAG levels. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic Interaction Studies 
No specific drug-interaction studies have been  performed. The metabolic degradation of rhASB 
through peptide hydrolysis makes it an unlikely candidate for drug–drug interactions.  
Inhibition  of  intracellular  ASB  activity  through  interference  of  the  delivery  of  receptor-bound 
enzyme  to  the  lysosome  by  chloroquine  and  related  amines  has  been  reported  in  the  literature. 
However,  the  risk  extrapolated  from  these  in  vitro  effects  appears  theoretical  as  the  levels  of 
inhibitors  required  are  far  greater  than  those  expected  at  the  recommended  doses  of  these 
compounds for humans. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of Action 
The lysosomal enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulphatase (arylsulphatase B, ASB) is deficient 
in patients with MPS VI, resulting in an accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in tissues 
throughout the body that leads to widespread cellular, tissue and organ dysfunction. Recombinant 
human ASB (rhASB) is intended to replace ASB and reduce the manifestations of the disease by 
increasing the catabolism of GAGs. 
• 
Primary and Secondary Pharmacology 
The  pharmacodynamic  endpoint  reflecting  the  removal  of  excess  dermatan  sulphate  from 
vascularized  tissues  measured  the  level  of  urinary  GAGs.  Excessive  lysosomal  storage  of 
dermatan sulfate within the kidney, particularly in the collecting tubules, leads to the excretion of 
excessive amounts of GAGs in the urine. 
Urinary GAG levels thus provide a gauge of total body GAG storage. When GAG storage product 
in the kidney is reduced by treatment with exogenous rhASB, urinary GAG levels fall. Preclinical 
studies in the feline MPS VI model have documented that reduction in lysosomal GAG storage 
reflects a decline in storage in other well-vascularised tissues.  
The PK/PD findings in some patients in the clinical trials suggest that the measurement of urinary 
GAG  levels  may  be  more  appropriate  for  assessing  the  activity  of  rhASB  than  AUC  and  the 
possible impact of an anti–ASB antibody on this activity (see discussion on clinical efficacy) 
17/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy  
Dose Response Study 
Study  No.  ASB-00-01:  A  Phase  1/2  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Two  Dose  Group  Study  of 
Recombinant Human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase (rhASB) Enzyme Replacement Therapy 
in Patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome) 
METHODS 
Objectives: To evaluate the safety (primary objective), efficacy and pharmacokinetics (PK) of 2 
dose levels of weekly intravenous (IV) infusions of recombinant human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-
sulfatase (rhASB) for a minimum of 24 weeks in patients diagnosed with MPS VI. 
Measures of safety included clinical chemistry, hematology and tracking of adverse events (AEs). 
Specific  to  enzyme  replacement  therapy,  the  study  gauged  the  immune  response  and 
anaphylactoid  reactions  (including  complement  activation  and  antibody  formation)  of  patients 
receiving therapy. 
Efficacy  parameters  included  exercise  tolerance,  respiratory  capacity,  joint  range  of  motion 
(ROM), functional status, levels of urinary GAGs, hepatomegaly, visual acuity, cardiac function, 
and sleep apnea. 
Design: This was a double-blind, randomized, two dose level study (0.2 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg). An 
interim analysis of unblinded safety and efficacy data of treatment for each patient was performed 
after the sixth patient enrolled completed 24 weeks of treatment.  
After  results  of  the  interim  analysis  were  available  and  reviewed  with  the  U.S.  Food  and  Drug 
Administration (FDA), all patients randomized to the lower dosage (0.2 mg/kg) were transitioned 
to the higher dosage (1 mg/kg) for the remainder of the study. Patients originally randomized to 
the higher dosage level remained at that level. 
Study Participants  
7 patients enrolled; 6 completed 32 weeks of treatment, and 5 completed 144 weeks of treatment. 
Treatments 
All patients were premedicated with 0.5 mg/kg of diphenhydramine IV.  
rhASB  (0.2  mg/kg  or  1  mg/kg)  was  diluted  into  100  to  250  mL  of  0.9%  Sodium  Chloride 
Injection, and infused over a 4-hour period. Cardiorespiratory and pulse oximeter monitoring was 
conducted throughout the infusion. The infusion rate was adjusted so that approximately 2.5% of 
the  total  volume  of  study  drug  solution  was  infused  during  the  first  hour,  with  infusion  of  the 
remaining volume (approximately 97.5%) over the next 3 hours. Per Protocol Amendment, study 
drug  manufactured  by  a  modified  process  was  administered  to  all  on-study  patients  starting  at 
Week 84. 
Statistical Methods 
All  demographic  and  safety  data  were  summarized  using  the  safety  population,  defined  as  all 
patients  who  enrolled  in  the  study  and  had  at  least  one  infusion  of  rhASB.  Efficacy  data  were 
analyzed  using  descriptive statistics, frequency tabulations, and graphical displays over time, as 
appropriate. No inferential testing was performed.  
Summary  tables  were  produced.  All  patients  who  were  on  study  for  at  least  12  weeks  were 
included in the analysis. Analyses, when appropriate, include evaluations of changes in efficacy 
measures from screening for each patient to determine whether any enzyme effect was observed. 
RESULTS 
Week 24 Double-Blind Dosage Comparison Analysis: 
Seven  patients  were  enrolled  and  randomized  to  0.2  mg/kg  rhASB  (n=4)  or  to  1  mg/kg  rhASB 
(n=3). In order to be included in the efficacy analysis, patients had to complete at least 12 weeks 
of treatment. One patient withdrew from the study after receiving 3 infusions; therefore, the 24-
week analysis was based on 3 patients in each dose group. An interim analysis performed after all 
18/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
patients completed 24 weeks of treatment indicated that the higher dose produced a larger mean 
decrease in urinary GAG and appeared to result in greater clinical benefit. 
Six-Minute Walk Test 
In the 6-Minute Walk Test, patients receiving the 1 mg/kg dose of rhASB had a mean increase of 
65 m at Week 24 compared to baseline (83% increase); the patients who received 0.2 mg/kg had a 
mean increase of 23 m (10% increase). 
Urinary GAG Levels 
The patients in the 1 mg/kg group had a 70% mean reduction from baseline in urinary GAGs to a 
mean level of 100.0 µg/mg creatinine; the patients in the 0.2 mg/kg group had a mean reduction 
from baseline of 55% to a mean level of 144 µg/mg creatinine . 
Shoulder ROM 
All patients showed some improvement for flexion or extension in at least 1 shoulder at Week 24. 
Other Endpoints: 
Liver size as a percent of body weight generally decreased, particularly for the 2 patients, one in 
each dosage group, with the largest livers at baseline . 
There were no clinically meaningful changes in bone mineral density, height, weight, chest and 
cervical spine X–rays, ECG, Echocardiogram, FVC, FEV1, other CHAQ variables, and the pinch 
and  grip  strength  results.  There  were  no  clinically  meaningful  changes  in  the  other  efficacy 
assessments. 
Discussion: 
The small number of patients in this phase 1/2 study complicates assessment of the dose response 
using  the  2  doses,  which  is  further  compounded  by  the  variability  seen  in  individual  patient 
responses Nevertheless the data are supportive of the superiority of the 1 mg/kg dose in terms of 
urinary GAG reduction and clinical improvement. 
However,  it  should  be  noted  that  there  are  no  data  for  intermediate  doses  between  0.2  and  1 
mg/kg, to determine an optimal dose. 
•  Main Study  
Phase 3 Trial 
Protocol  No.  ASB-03-05:  A  Phase  3,  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled, 
Multicenter,  Multinational  Clinical  Study  of  Recombinant  Human  N-acetylgalactosamine  4-
sulfatase (rhASB) in Patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI 
Objectives: 
Primary Efficacy Objective 
The primary objective was to evaluate the ability of rhASB versus placebo to enhance endurance 
in patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (MPS VI), as evidenced by an increase in the number 
of meters walked in the 12-Minute Walk Test at Week 24 compared with baseline. 
Secondary Efficacy Objectives: 
The secondary efficacy objectives were as follows: 
To evaluate the ability of rhASB versus placebo to enhance endurance and respiratory capacity in 
patients with MPS VI, as evidenced by an increase in number of stairs climbed in the 3–Minute 
Stair Climb Test at Week 24 compared with baseline 
To evaluate the ability of rhASB to reduce GAG excretion in the urine in patients with MPS VI at 
Week 24 compared with baseline Tertiary Efficacy Objectives 
The tertiary efficacy objectives were as follows: 
To evaluate the ability of rhASB to decrease joint pain in patients with MPS VI as evidenced by a 
decrease in joint pain scores on an analogue scale at Week 24 compared with baseline. 
19/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
- To evaluate the ability of rhASB to decrease joint stiffness in patients with MPS VI asevidenced 
by a decrease in joint stiffness scores on an analogue scale at Week 24 compared with baseline. 
To  evaluate  the  ability  of  rhASB  to  increase  physical  energy  in  patients  with  MPS  VI  as 
evidenced  by  an  increase  in  physical  energy  score  on  an  analogue  scale  at  Week  24  compared 
with baseline. 
To evaluate the ability of rhASB to improve joint ROM as evidenced by an increase in shoulder 
ROM at Week 24 compared with baseline in a subset of patients with MPS VI who have a pre–
existing limitation of shoulder ROM (baseline average of <90º for range of active flexion at the 
shoulders). 
To evaluate the ability of rhASB to improve dexterity and sensation in patients with MPS VI as 
evidenced by an increase in the number of coins picked up in 1 minute at Week 24 compared with 
baseline. 
Design and Methods:  
Patients underwent eligibility assessments during a 1-2 weeks screening period. Patients had to be 
at  least  7  years  of  age.  To  be  eligible  for  the  study  a  patient  must  have  been  able  to  walk 
independently at least 5 metres and no more than 270 metres in the first 6 minutes, or no more 
than  400  metres  in  12  minutes  in  a  12-minute  walk  test.  Eligible  patients  underwent  baseline 
assessments during a 2-week baseline period and were then randomised to receive either rhASB 
or placebo. Patients received weekly double-blind infusions of either 1 mg/kg rhASB or placebo 
solution for 24 consecutive weeks. After 24 weeks, all patients were eligible to receive rhASB in 
a separate open-label extension study.  
Study Participants 
There  were  39  patients  randomised  into  the  trial,  20  received  placebo  and  19  received  rhASB. 
Thirty-six  of  these patients had previously participated in study ASB-00-02. There is a concern 
that this creates a population enriched in some way for response to treatment. 
All  39  patients  completed  the  study,  and  there  was  no  missing  data  except  for  one  subject  on 
rhASB who missed the week 18 visit, and one subject on placebo who withdrew consent before 
the week 6 visit and provided no data after baseline.  
There  were  11  patients,  8  on  placebo  and  3  on  rhASB  who  did  not  fulfil  the  eligibility 
requirements but were granted exceptions and randomised. There were 3 patients, all on placebo, 
who  were  under  7  years  of  age.  One  of  the  patients  randomised  to  rhASB  had  a  bone  marrow 
transplant at age 7 (about 11 years previously); the exclusion criteria prohibited the inclusion of 
patients that had previously undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.  
The main group of ineligible patients were 7 patients (5 on placebo, 2 on rhASB) who exceeded 
the walk test criteria at screening. Following completion of the screening of all known potential 
study candidates, the applicant considered that the required number of eligible patients could not 
be  identified.  Therefore  the  population  was  expanded  by  enrolling  patients  who  met  all  other 
study criteria but could walk further than the study criteria permitted. All the additional patients 
walked between 400 and 600m in 12 minutes at screening. 
Statistical Methods: 
Patients  were  randomized  to  either  the  rhASB  or  placebo  group,  stratified  by  primary  site  of 
treatment. Within each site, randomized blocks governed the allocation to treatment group. 
Demographic  and  background  information  were  summarized  and  presented  by  the  means, 
standard deviations, medians, and ranges for continuous variables and as counts and percentages 
for categorical variables. 
The efficacy analyses included all randomized patients. The safety analyses included all patients 
who received at least one dose of study drug. 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint Analyses:  
20/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy assessment was a 12-Minute Walk test. This was conducted at screening (to 
determine  eligibility  for  the  study)  then  twice  (on  separate  days)  at  each  of  baseline,  Week  6, 
Week 12, Week 18 and Week 24.  
This  was  analysed  using  a  repeated  measures  linear  analysis  stratified  by  site  with  the  baseline 
walk distance as a continuous covariate, and time and treatment by time interaction as covariates. 
The  applicant  used  three  analysis  populations.  The  ITT  population  included  all  randomised 
patients;  the  walk  eligible  subset  includes  only  patients  who  fulfilled  the  walk  test  criteria  at 
screening;  the  ≤400  m  subset  includes  only  patients  who  walked  ≤400  m  (average  of  the  two 
assessments) at baseline. Note that the patient who provided no data after baseline is not in either 
of  the  analysis  sub-groups,  as  he/she  did  not  fulfil  the  walk  test  criteria  at  either  screening  or 
baseline. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoint Analyses: 
Stair Climb Test: The analyses for the 3–Minute Stair-Climb Test was similar to that used for 
the  primary  endpoint;  i.e.,  a  repeated  measures  linear  model.  Sensitivity  analyses  explored  the 
robustness  of  the  results.  This  analysis  used  rate  of  climb,  defined  by  the  (number  of  stairs 
climbed)/(number of minutes in the climb), as the outcome variable. 
Urinary GAG Measurements: An analysis of variance of Week 24 urinary GAG level was used 
to  compare  the  rhASB  and  placebo  groups.  The  model  was  stratified  by  site  and  used  baseline 
urinary GAG level as a continuous covariate. A “responder” was defined as a patient with at least 
50 percent reduction in urinary GAG from baseline to Week 24. A supportive analysis compared 
the proportion of responders in the two groups using a Mantel–Haenszel test stratified by clinical 
site. 
Tertiary  Efficacy  Endpoint  Analyses:  The  primary  analyses  used  repeated  measures  linear 
models  on  the  endpoints  of  interest  to  estimate  the  treatment  effect  comparing  the  differences 
between Week 24 and baseline. For shoulder joint range of motion, the primary endpoint was a 
binary variable: improvement by at least 10(cid:31)analyzed using a Mantel–Haenszel test stratified by 
site. 
RESULTS: 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints: 
12–Minute  Walk  Test.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  showed  a  statistically  significant 
difference  in  mean  distance  walked  in  12  minutes  between  the  rhASB  and  placebo  Group.  The 
rhASB group walked a mean ± SE of 92 ± 40 m further than the placebo group at Week 24 (p-
value ± 0.025).  
Baseline imbalances 
At  baseline,  the  observed  mean  ±  SD  12–Minute  Walk  Distance  for  the  rhASB  group  was 
227 ± 170 m; the comparable value for the placebo group was 381 ± 202 m. This imbalance was 
in part due to a disproportionate number of the walk–ineligible patients being randomly assigned 
to the placebo group (see table below).  
Baseline 12-Minute Walk Test (Metres) 
Population 
ITT 
Walk eligible 
≤400m subset 
rhASB 
n 
19 
17 
16 
Mean 
227 
197 
170 
Placebo 
n 
20 
15 
12 
Mean 
381 
329 
243 
sd 
170 
146 
110 
Difference 
Mean 
-154 
-131 
-73 
SE 
60 
62 
45 
sd 
202 
199 
125 
Week 24 12-Minute Walk Test (Metres) 
Population 
rhASB 
n 
Mean 
sd 
21/37 
Placebo 
n 
Mean 
sd 
Difference 
Mean 
SE 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITT 
Walk eligible 
≤400m subset 
19 
17 
16 
336 
311 
298 
227 
199 
225 
19 
15 
12 
399 
347 
283 
217 
212 
160 
-63 
-36 
15 
72 
77 
73 
Because of an imbalance in baseline walk distances between the rhASB and placebo groups and 
because 7 exceptions were made to the walk distance inclusion criteria (these patients exceeded 
the criteria of not more than 270 m in 6 minutes OR no more than 400 m in 12 minutes for the 
screening  walk  test),  additional  analyses  were  performed  to  demonstrate  the  robustness  of  the 
data. 
There were 2 major subset analyses performed for the Phase 3 study following the observation of 
a  baseline  imbalance  between  treatment  groups  for  results  of  the  12-Minute  Walk  Test  and  3–
Minute Stair Climb test. 
One  subset  analysis  excluded  patients  who  did  not  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  using  their 
screening  walk  test  data;  the  remaining  32  patients  constituted  the  “Walk-Eligible  Subset.”  The 
second subset applied even stricter criteria relative to the inclusion criteria, and analyzed the data 
from 28 patients who walked ≤ 400 m at baseline, comprising the “ ≤ 400 m Subset.” 
Using a longitudinal model, the estimated differences adjusted for baseline from placebo at Week 
24 for the “Walk-Eligible Subset” and the “< 400 m Subset” were 115 m and 118 m respectively; 
the corresponding p-values are 0.016 and 0.024 (see table below). 
Similar findings were seen for the subset analyses of the 3–Minute Stair Climb results. 
Despite  the  apparent  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  primary  endpoint  of  the  phase  3 
study, the substantial imbalance in treatment groups at baseline, makes interpretation of the data 
difficult. This is particularly important as patients on placebo were walking substantially longer 
distances compared to those randomised to active treatment. This could be a matter for concern as 
it  would  appear  that  healthier  patients  have  been  allocated  to  placebo  while  those  with  more 
advanced  disease  have  been  allocated  to  active  treatment.  In  addition,  the  distances  walked  at 
week 24 by both groups were similar, but due to the imbalance larger improvements were seen in 
the rhASB treatment group. 
The  CHMP  requested  further  analyses  without  any  adjustment  for  baseline  but  by  making 
comparison  of  patients  with  similar  baselines.  This  was  possible  due  to  the  large  overlap  of 
baseline values between treatments.  
The table below shows the results from an analysis made by the assessor, excluding the patients 
with the 5 highest, and the 5 lowest baseline scores. 
12-Minute Walk Test – Excluding 10 Baseline Extremes 
Baseline 
Placebo 
rhASB 
n  Mean (sd) n  Mean (sd) Difference 
1
255 (122)  1
322 (158) 
-67 
22/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 24 
Change from BL 
Adjusted change* 
4 
1
4 
1
4 
1
4 
4 
375 (205)  1
4 
120 (162)  1
4 
1
4 
117 
355 (174)  +20 
33 (114) 
+86 
36 
+81 
*adjusted for baseline 
This can be compared to the all-patient analysis shown below: 
12-Minute Walk Test – All Patients 
Baseline 
Week 24 
Change from BL 
Adjusted change* 
-147 
Placebo 
373 (204) 
rhASB 
n  Mean (sd) n  Mean (sd) Difference 
1
9 
1
9 
1
9 
1
9 
227 (170)  1
9 
336 (227)  1
9 
109 (154)  1
9 
1
9 
399 (217) 
26 (122) 
+72 
+83 
103 
-63 
31 
*adjusted for baseline 
The  results  from  this  sub-group  analysis,  combined  with  those  from  the  company  supplied 
analyses  using  different  subgroups,  suggest  that  the  treatment  advantage  for  rhASB  is  not 
dependent upon the baseline imbalance. 
There  is  further  supportive  evidence  from  the  open-label  extension  trial  where  the  placebo 
patients  who  had  only  minimally  improved  over  the  first  24  weeks  made  substantial 
improvements over the next 24 weeks when switched to active treatment. Although this data are 
open-label they still serve to provide some reassurance 
The reasons for this baseline imbalance were also investigated at the request of the CHMP. The 
result  is  that  the  randomisation  scheme  seemed  robust  and  appropriate.  It  seems  that  the 
imbalance  is  most  likely  to  have  been  a  chance  occurrence.  Perhaps  this  was  a  function  of  the 
small size of the study which makes chance imbalances more likely. 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints: 
In the analysis, the rate of stairs climbed per minute was used because the percent of stair climbs 
in which the patient reached the top of the stairs exceeded the predefined limit of 10% in the data 
analysis plan.  
3–Minute  Stair  Climb.The  primary  analysis  of  rate  of  stair  climb  (stairs/minute)  in  all 
randomized patients showed a difference between the mean change in the rates between rhASB 
and placebo of 5.7 ±  2.9 stairs/minute (p= 0.053).  
For  both  the  Walk-Eligible  and  ≤400  m  subsets,  the  rhASB  group  climbed  a  mean  of 
approximately 21 more stairs than the placebo group, p= 0.019 and p= 0.048, respectively. 
However these results need to be interpreted with caution because of baseline imbalances 
Urinary  GAG.  Seventeen  of  19  rhASB  patients  and  no  placebo  patients  had  a  ≥50%  percent 
reduction  in  urinary  GAG  levels  between  baseline  and  Week  24  (p  =  0.001).  This  decline 
suggests an affect on both lysosomal storage and accumulation of GAG. 
Tertiary Efficacy Endpoints: 
23/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tertiary endpoint variables that assessed joint pain, joint stiffness, physical energy, shoulder joint 
range  of  motion,  and  dexterity  as  measured  by the  coin  pick–up  test  showed  little  change  from 
baseline over time, however tertiary variables were not statistically powered to show a difference 
between  the  groups.  No  improvement  in  cardiac  valvular  disease  was  observed,  although  the 
majority of patients enrolled had only mild disease at baseline. 
Long-Term Assessments–Pulmonary Function: 
The  more  rapid  changes  in  maximum  voluntary  ventilation  (MVV)  and  best  Forced  Inspiratory 
Rate  (FIR)  measures  suggest  improvements  in  ribcage  excursion  due  to  improved  strength  or 
flexibility and possibly imply that improved respiratory function rather than enhanced pulmonary 
function may be an important contributor to early improvements in endurance. 
Uncontrolled Studies 
Phase 2 trial 
Protocol  No.  ASB-01-04:  A  Phase  2  Open-Label  Clinical  Study  of  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of 
Recombinant Human N–acetylgalactosamine 4–sulfatase (rhASB) Enzyme Replacement Therapy 
in Patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (Maroteaux–Lamy Syndrome) 
Objectives:  To  evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  pharmacokinetics  of  weekly  intravenous 
infusions of 1 mg/kg recombinant human N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase (rhASB) in patients 
diagnosed with mucopolysaccharidosis VI (MPS VI). Study ongoing. 
Patient  Population:  Ten  patients  with  MPS  VI,  7  females  and  3  males,  were  enrolled  in  the 
study.  Ages  ranged  from  6  to  21  years  and  urinary  GAG  levels  ranged  from  138.4  to  518.5  at 
enrollment. All 10 patients were on study through Week 72. 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints: The main primary efficacy variables consisted of shoulder range 
of motion (ROM), stair climb test, 12-Minute Walk Test and Urinary GAG levels  
Results: 
Ten patients were enrolled in the Phase 2 Study and all 10 patients remained on study at Week 24.  
Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
12-Minute Walk Test: All 10 patients had improvements in the distance walked at 6 (9/10) and 
12 minutes at Week 24 compared to baseline. The mean increase was 64 ± 62 m in 6 minutes and 
155 ± 146 m in 12 minutes.  
Stair  Climb  Test:  All  10  patients  had  an  increase  in  the  number  of  stairs  climbed  in  three 
minutes between baseline and Week 24. The mean increase was 48 ± 48 stairs 
Urinary  GAG  Levels:  Urinary  GAG  levels  showed  a  rapid  decline  from  baseline,  with  71% 
reductions at Week 6 and at Week 24. Mean levels declined from 336 ± 116 µg/mg creatinine at 
baseline to 103 ± 50 µg/mg creatinine at Week 24. 
Shoulder ROM:  At Week 24, 7 patients had an improvement in active shoulder flexion, 9 had 
improvement  in  active  shoulder  extension,  and  8  had  improvements  in  active  lateral  rotation. 
However, none of these results were clinically significant being <10 degrees. Similar results were 
seen with passive ROM 
Other Efficacy Endpoints 
The  secondary  efficacy  variables  measured  at  Week  24  were  pulmonary  function,  physical 
activity, oxygenation during sleep, bone density, and ECG and echocardiogram. The majority of 
patients had decreases in liver and spleen size, but there were no clinically meaningful changes in 
the other efficacy variables. 
Discussion 
The results of this open label phase 2 study are supportive of efficacy and  appear to suggest that 
at a 1 mg/Kg  dose, all patients showed  improvement in the 6 and 12 Minute Walk test, as well as 
showing an increase in the number of stairs climbed. Consistent with these changes, there was a 
70% reduction in the level of urinary GAG levels. 
24/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
• 
Supportive study 
Open label extension of the Phase 1/2 Study (ASB-00-01) 
Long–Term Efficacy Results (Up to Week 144): 
At the end of 144 weeks of treatment, all patients showed substantial reduction in urinary GAG 
levels,  indicative  of  improvement  in  the  biochemical  manifestation  of  MPS  VI.  Urinary  GAG 
levels at Week 144 were reduced to 56.5 - 101.4 ug/mg creatinine, reflecting percent reductions 
of 60% to 86% from screening levels. These levels approached the normal range for age for these 
patients.  All  patients  experienced  improvement  in  one  or  more  clinical  endpoints.  No  changes 
were seen in cardiac function, sleep disturbances, bone density, and chest and cervical spine X-
rays results. 
Survey Study 
The first special study, “A Survey Study of Subjects with Mucopolysaccharidosis VI (Maroteaux-
Lamy  Syndrome)”  was  a  multicenter,  multinational  study  covering  a  14-month  period.  The 
objective  of  the  study  was  to  establish  the  range  and  diversity  of  clinical  symptomatology  in 
selected subjects diagnosed with MPS VI. Clinical and biochemical parameters known to affect 
MPS  VI  individuals  were  evaluated  at  a  single  time-point  including  height,  weight,  baseline 
urinary GAG levels, and clinical presentation The study was conducted in 7 countries at centers 
with  expertise  in  evaluating  and  treating  individuals  with  MPS  VI  (n=121  MPS  VI  patients 
surveyed). Endpoints of specific interest in the survey study were distance walked in the 6-Minute 
Walk  Test,  respiratory  function,  joint  ROM,  and  urinary  GAG  levels.  The  results  showed  a 
general classification of patients as those with rapidly advancing or slowly advancing phenotypes. 
This study also revealed that impaired endurance affected the entire spectrum of slowly to rapidly 
advancing  disease  and  documented  that  urinary  GAG  levels  were  an  important  indicator  of 
morbidity and potentially, mortality. 
Sibling Study 
The  second  special  study  is  the  Sibling  Study,  “An  Investigator-Sponsored  Study  Comparing 
Treatment of Newborn and Sibling Mucopolysaccharidosis VI Patients with Recombinant Human 
N-acetylgalactosamine  4-sulphatase  (rhASB)”.  The  primary  objective  of  this  study,  which  is 
underway in Australia, is to compare the safety profile of 1 mg/kg rhASB treatment in a newborn, 
enrolled  at  2 months  of  age,  and  a  sibling,  enrolled  at  3  years  7  months  of  age,  who  are  both 
affected by MPS VI.  
The  2  siblings  enrolled  in  this  study  have  been treated for approximately 10 months. The older 
sibling has shown improvements in distance walked in the 6–Minute Walk Test and in joint and 
spine  mobility.  Growth  rate  is  normal.  Corneal  clouding  has  changed  from  mild  at  baseline  to 
moderate at Week 24. The younger sibling has developed significant rib cage flaring and pectus 
excavatum  and  mild  corneal  clouding  at  Week  24. Weight  and  length  continue  to  be  above  the 
97th percentile, joint range of motion appears normal, and organ systems appear normal.  
• 
Discussion on Clinical Efficacy 
The  three  primary  clinical  studies  included  56  individuals  with  MPS  VI  (20  males,  36 females) 
between  the  ages  of  5-29  years  representing  the  entire  spectrum  of  disease  manifestation.  The 
majority of patients enrolled in the clinical studies presented with profound skeletal dysplasia and 
heights of 100 cm or less, consistent with the rapidly advancing phenotype. However, 10 of the 
56 patients enrolled in the 3 studies were considered to be of the slowly progressing phenotype. 
Two populations were excluded from the clinical studies, subjects 5 years of age or younger and 
patients who had received BMT. 
While there are no published studies employing the clinical endpoint variable of stair climbing to 
establish a treatment effect, results of the stair climb have substantially correlated with pulmonary 
function  tests,  including  FVC  and  FEV1.  The  Stair  Climb  Test  is  also  an  indicator  of  other 
parameters, including cardiovascular status, patient cooperation, and determination. 
25/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Despite  the  apparent  statistically  significant  difference  in  the  primary  endpoint  of  the  phase  3 
study, the substantial imbalance in treatment groups at baseline, makes interpretation of the data 
difficult. 
At  the  request  of  CHMP,  the  applicant  has  provided  a  re-analysis  of  the  efficacy  data  which 
confirms  the  trend  in  efficacy  in  the  pivotal  trial  despite  the  observation  of  baseline  imbalance 
between the active and placebo groups. It appears that the imbalance is most likely to have been a 
chance occurrence. Perhaps this was a function of the small size of the study which makes chance 
imbalances  more  likely.  Importantly  however,  the  reanalysis  suggests  that  the  treatment 
advantage  for  galsulfase  is  not  dependent  upon  the  baseline  imbalance. In addition results from 
the open label extension of the pivotal trial have provided reassuring supportive data which help 
to  remove  the  concern  that  differences  between  treatments  in  the  randomised  phase  were  only 
seen  because  the  placebo  patients  started  with  long  walk  distances  and  had  no  room  for 
improvement. 
The  improvement  in  urinary  GAG  excretion  was  rapid,  consistent,  and  reproducible  across  all 
3 studies for patients receiving the 1 mg/kg dose. There was a dose-related effect on results for 
this  variable.  Increased  shoulder  joint  ROM  and  associated  improvements  in  joint  pain  and 
arthritis scores were observed in all 3 clinical studies. Nevertheless, the results of the Phase 1/2 
and  Phase  2  Studies  produced  conflicting  results  for  the  expected  gain  in  joint  function.  The 
Phase 1/2 data showed 8-10-degree gains at 24 weeks in the 3 patients with shoulder flexion < 90 
degrees at baseline, and, with extended treatment on the higher dose out to 144 weeks, all patients 
improved 10 degrees or more. The Phase 2 Study failed to show a similar gain at Week 24, and 
results at Week 48 were variable.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  a  significant  change  in  functional  lung  capacity  across  the  MPS  VI 
studies  after  24  weeks  of  treatment.  Small  improvements  did  emerge  in  several  patients  during 
longer  treatment,  but  increased  growth  or  improvement  in  existing  hepatosplenomegaly  could 
possibly have been a contributing factor to these changes. 
Seven of the 8 pre-pubertal patients (< 11 years old) enrolled in the Phase 1/2 and Phase 2 studies 
experienced 5% or greater increase in height. These changes did not occur prior to 48 weeks of 
treatment. The one pre-pubertal patient who did not experienced this degree of growth is a genetic 
“null” who has received chronic steroid treatment. No significant growth has been seen in patients 
12 years  of  age  or  older  in  these  studies.  Decreases  in  hepatosplenomegaly  were  observed  in 
Phase 1/2 and Phase 2 patients with enlarged livers and/or spleens, and sleep apnea improved in 
some  patients.  No  improvements  in  bone  density  were  observed  in  the  Phase  1/2  and  Phase  2 
studies. 
It  should  be  noted  that  disease  in  relatively  avascular  tissues  appears  unaffected  by  rhASB 
treatment, as reflected by development of both corneal clouding and skeletal dysplasia of the ribs 
in the 2–month old patient in the sibling study after 10 months of treatment. 
Reduction in urinary GAG levels was achieved in the majority of patients in all 3 studies.  
However,  the  relationship  between  AUC,  antibody  level  and  clinical  response  was  not  entirely 
clear in patients who were deemed to be outliers. Although one patient had no measurable plasma 
levels of rhASB during the first 24 weeks of treatment in the Phase 1/2 study and another patient 
had a relatively large AUC relative to others in the higher dose group, both patients had a > 70% 
reduction in urinary GAG levels from baseline. This does suggest that the enzyme was available 
in  target  tissues.  However,  both  patients  had  elevated  antibodies.  The  former  patient  had 
antibodies  that  appeared  to  block  the  ELISA  assay,  but  apparently  did  not  impair  peripheral 
uptake  of  ASB  from  the  circulation.  The  latter  patient  had  elevated  antibody  levels,  which 
appeared to extend the plasma circulating time, but not eventual uptake, of rhASB. Nevertheless 
by Week 84, the PK and PD for these two patients were similar to group means, while antibody 
levels had fallen and urinary GAG levels were low during the entire period.  
In contrast, a patient in the Phase 3 study had reduced plasma AUC and high antibody levels at 
Week  24,  but  the  urinary  GAG  level  reduction  was  <  50%.  Nevertheless,  despite  a  lesser 
26/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
reduction  in  urinary  GAG  levels,  this  patient  demonstrated  improvement  in  both  measures  of 
endurance during the 24–week study period.  
The PK/PD findings in these patients would therefore appear to suggest that the measurement of 
urinary GAG levels may be more appropriate for assessing the activity of rhASB than AUC and 
the possible impact of an anti–ASB antibody on this activity  
The  possible  relationship  between  antibody  development  and  clinical  efficacy/GAG  urinary 
excretion was re-evaluated by the applicant at the request of CHMP. 
The applicant has presented a reasoned argument which suggests no obvious relationship between 
antibody level either with physical endurance or urinary GAG levels in the majority of patients. 
However, in view of the variability of response in some patients, this will be kept under review as 
part of the clinical surveillance programme. 
The  rationale  for  the  selection  of  the  proposed  dose  was  not  entirely  clear,  since  there  were  no 
data  on  intermediate  doses,  which  would  have  further  clarified    the  non-linearity  of  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  ASB.  The  selection  of  the  1  mg  dose  appears  to  have  been  significantly 
influenced from the pre-clinical results of the feline study which had one feline treated at a dose 
of 0.2mg/kg. It was therefore unfortunate that due to a paucity of patients, the dose finding phase 
1/2  study  had  very  small  numbers  of  evaluable  patients,  to  firmly  draw  conclusions  regarding 
optimal dose levels. 
At the request of CHMP, the applicant has provided a reasoned argument for the justification of 
the 1 milligram dose as a result of the reduction in GAG levels by 70-75%, independently of the 
rate or stage of disease progression or sex and age 
The  applicant  has  undertaken  to  further  define  an  optimal  maintenance  dose  in  the  proposed 
clinical  surveillance  programme.  Additionally,  the  applicant  intends  to  monitor  dose  and 
frequency implemented by individual physicians, given the extremely limited number of patients. 
Clinical Safety 
The  adverse  event  (AE)  and  laboratory  data  for  the  first  24  weeks  of  treatment  from  the  2 
controlled  studies  were  pooled  by  combining  numerators  and  denominators;  no  weighting  was 
used.  Data  from  the  first  24  weeks  from  the  open-label  Phase  2  Study  are  shown  separately. 
Long-term  safety  data  (post-week  24)  from  the  2  ongoing  studies  (Phase  1/2  extension  through 
Week 144 and Phase 2 through Week 72) are also shown separately.  
Patient Exposure 
A total of 56 patients have been treated in the 3 clinical studies; 20 of these patients 
received  placebo  in  the  Phase  3  Study.  Patients  received  their  assigned  dose  of  rhASB  as  a    4-
hour  IV  infusion  once  weekly  (every  7  ±  3days)  for  the  duration  of  each  clinical  study.  All 
patients  were  treated  with  diphenhydramine  0.5-1.25  mg/kg  (up  to  50  mg),  p.o.  or  IV,  or  an 
approved  alternative  antihistamine  30-60  minutes  prior  to  infusion  in  an  effort  to  prevent 
anaphylactoid reactions to the study drug. 
In the Phase 1/2 Study, 4 patients were randomly assigned to receive the 0.2 mg/kg dose. 
Two of these patients withdrew from the study before they could transition to the 1 mg/kg dose 6 
of the 7 patients enrolled completed the Week 24 assessment double-blind dose comparison part 
of the study. Compliance with the rhASB treatment regimen was high, with few infusions missed 
in the first 24 weeks of treatment and overall.  
In the Phase 3 Study,18 of the 19 patients in the rhASB group received 24 infusions and 1 patient 
received  23  infusions  over  the  24–week  study  period.  In  the  placebo  group,  1  patient  received 
4 infusions before withdrawing from the study after the Week 5 infusion, 1 patient received 22 of 
24 infusions,  and  2  patients  received  23  of  24  infusions.  The  remaining  16  placebo  patients 
received all 24 infusions. 
Adverse events: 
Common adverse events up to week 24 for the phase 1/2 and phase 3 studies are shown in tables 
14 and 15. 
27/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Controlled studies (Phase 3and phase 1/2) 
Table 14: Incidence and Frequency of Adverse Events at 24 Weeks in Studies 
ASB-00-01 and ASB-03-05 
Table 15: Incidence and Frequency of Adverse Events at 24 Weeks by System Organ 
Class in Studies ASB-00-01 and ASB-03-05 
28/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The specific AEs that occurred with the highest incidence (≥ 15% of patients) through Week 24 
among patients receiving rhASB at any dose in the Phase 1/2 and Phase 3 Studies respectively, (n 
= 26) were pyrexia; (12 patients), arthralgia and headache (10 patients each); abdominal pain (9 
patients);  ear  pain  and  vomiting  (8  patients  each);  cough  (7  patients)  otitis  media,  upper 
respiratory  infection,  and  pain  (6  patients  each),  diarrhea,  chest  pain,  and  back  pain  (5  patients 
each);  and  conjunctivitis,  nausea,  influenza-like  illness,  rigors,  dyspnea,  nasal  congestion, 
pruritus, and rash (4 patients each). This pattern of events was similar for the placebo group (n = 
20) 
The AEs with the highest frequency of occurrence (> 2.5% of all events) among rhASB-treated 
patients  in  the  Phase  1/2  and  Phase  3  Studies  were  headache,  pyrexia,  arthralgia,  myalgia, 
abdominal pain, URI, cough, ear pain, and rigors. Arthralgia, myalgia, and rigors, were seen more 
frequently  among  rhASB.  The  pattern  of  AEs  for  patients  treated  with  0.2  mg/kg  rhASB  was 
similar to that observed for patients treated with 1 mg/kg rhASB. 
Of  the  802  AEs  reported  for  46  patients  treated  in  the  2  controlled  clinical  studies,  684  events 
(85.3%) were judged by the investigator to be unrelated to study drug administration. 
The remaining 118 AEs (14.7%) were considered related to study drug administration. Of these 
118 AEs,  49  did  not  occur  during  infusion.  Of  the  related  events  that  did  not  occur  during 
infusion, 41 were reported for rhASB-treated patients and 8 for placebo-treated patients. Among 
rhASB-treated patients, these events occurred most commonly in the Musculoskeletal Disorders 
and in the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders system organ classes, and the most frequently 
reported event was myalgia. 
Uncontrolled Study: Phase 2 Study ASB-01-04 
Common adverse events up to week 24 for the phase 2 studies are shown in tables 16 and 17 
Incidence  and  Frequency  of  Adverse  Events  at  24  Weeks 
Table  16 
Study ASB-01-04 
in  
29/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: Incidence and Frequency of Adverse Events at 24 Weeks by System Organ 
Class in Phase 2 Study ASB-01-04 
In  the  Phase  2  Study,  the  AEs  with  the  highest  incidence  (  ≥  20%  of  patients)  were  headache 
(5 patients); vomiting, URI, pain in extremity, and pyrexia (4 patients each); and abdominal pain, 
nausea, pneumonia, infusion site pain, and otorrhea (3 patient each) . 
The most frequently reported AEs (≥ 2.5% of all events) were headache, pyrexia, vomiting, pain 
in extremity, otorrhea, nausea, pneumonia, and infusion site pain. 
Of the 147 AEs reported for the 10 patients treated in this study, 135 events (91.8%) were judged 
by the investigator to be unrelated to study drug administration. 
The remaining 12 AEs (8.2%) were considered related to study drug administration. 
(Of these 12 AEs, 6 did not occur during infusion). Of the related events that did not occur during 
infusion, events occurred most commonly in the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders system 
organ class; these events included abdominal pain, pyrexia, complement factor decreased, asthma, 
eczema, and pruritus. 
Common Adverse Events from Weeks 25 to 144 
Among  the  Common  Adverse  Events  from  Weeks 25  to 144, the specific AEs with the highest 
incidence (≥ 15% of patients) were URI (10 patients); diarrhea, pyrexia, arthralgia, and headache 
(9 patients  each);  vomiting  (8  patients);  otorrhea  (7  patients);  ear  pain,  infusion  site  pain,  otitis 
media,  contusion,  and  cough  (5  patients  each);  rash,  urticaria,  chest  pain,  viral  URI,  and  ear 
30/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infection  (4 patients  each);  and  abdominal  pain,  nausea,  herpes  simplex,  post-procedural  pain, 
sunburn,  thermal  burn,  back  pain,  myalgia,  pain  in  extremity,  eye  infection,  nasal  congestion, 
rhinorrhea, and poor venous access (3 patients each).  
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  (≥2.5%  of  all  events)  were  pyrexia,  headache,  rash,  URI, 
otorrhea, diarrhea, and pain in extremity.  
Of the 562 AEs reported for the 16 patients treated beyond 24 weeks, 488 events (86.8%) were 
judged by the investigator to be unrelated to study drug administration.  
A total of 74 adverse events (13.2%) were considered to be related to study drug administration. 
Of these, 6 did not occur during study drug infusion. The remaining 68 study drug–related events 
did occur during infusion and were therefore considered IARs. 
Serious Adverse Events And Deaths 
A  total  of  39  SAEs  (2.6%  of  all  events)  were  reported  overall  for  the  3  studies;  27  in  rhASB-
treated patients and 12 in placebo-treated patients. Three SAEs were considered to be related to 
study drug. Two related SAEs, apnea and urticaria, occurred during study drug infusion, both in 
patients treated with rhASB. The apnoeic event, although judged to be possibly related to study 
drug,  may  have  been  precipitated  by  antihistamine  use  in  the  setting  of  severe  upper  airway 
obstruction.  Moderate  urticaria  requiring  slowing  of  the  rhASB  infusion  occurred  at  Week  76. 
The  third  related  SAE,  asthma,  occurred  in  an  rhASB-treated  patient  with  a  long  history  of 
steroid-dependent  asthma  several  hours  after  study  drug  infusion.  A  total  of  36  SAEs  were 
considered  unrelated  to  study  drug  administration;  none  of  these  occurred  during  infusion. 
Twenty-four  of  these  events  occurred  in  patients  receiving  rhASB.  Pneumonia  was  the  most 
frequently reported unrelated SAE (3 events each for rhASB and placebo)  
Deaths  
One death was reported among patients treated with rhASB. Patient 40, Phase 1/2 Study elected 
to  withdraw  from  study  drug  treatment  after  3  weeks.  He  subsequently  developed  a  malignant 
brain  glioma  (10  months  after  withdrawal)  and  carcinoma  of  the  colon  (14  months  after 
withdrawal). He died of complications of the brain glioma approximately 20 months following his 
final study drug infusion. This patient was determined to have a germline mutation of the MSH2 
gene that was believed to be the underlying cause of both the glioma and colorectal cancer.  
• 
Laboratory Findings 
Anemia  was  the  most  common  event  reported;  a  total  of  4  episodes  were  reported  for  3  of  36 
rhASB–treated  patients  and  9  episodes  were  reported  for  8 of 19 placebo–treated patients. Two 
episodes of increased INR (blood clotting time) were reported for 1 patient. Single instances of 
decreased  serum  albumin,  increased  alkaline  phosphatase,  increased  phosphorus,  decreased 
potassium,  decreased  hemoglobin,  decreased  complement  factor,  abnormal  INR,  hyponatremia, 
hematuria, and proteinuria were also reported. 
One event each of anemia and decreased complement factor was considered to be related to study 
drug administration. None of these events were severe or serious adverse events. 
• 
Safety in Special Populations 
Safety Results from the Sibling Study 
Because of the age of these patients at enrolment (2 months, 3 years, 7 months), the data from this 
study  are  not  included  in  any  of  the  integrated  tables.  There  have  been  no  adverse  events,  no 
anaphylactoid  reactions  during  infusion,  and  no  clinically  significant  changes  in  laboratory  test 
values during the 8-month period of this report. None of the siblings has developed antibody to 
rhASB. 
• 
Immunological Events 
Infusion-Associated Reactions (IARs) 
Infusion-Associated Reactions up to Week 24 
Controlled Studies: 
31/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
In the 2 controlled clinical studies, 95 of the 802 AEs (11.8%) occurred during infusion. Of these 
95 AEs, 69 (72.6%) were considered to be related to study drug and thus met the definition for 
IAR. Sixty-three of these events were reported for rhASB-treated patients, while the remaining 6 
events were reported for placebo-treated patients.  
IARs were most frequently reported for the General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions 
and  Respiratory  Disorders  system  organ  classes.  The  most  frequently  reported  IARs  included 
rigors  (15.0%  of  events),  dyspnea  (7.5%),  and  pyrexia  (6.3%).  In  5  rhASB-patients,  IARs 
recurred and were considered to represent an anaphylactoid reaction to the study drug. 
Uncontrolled Study: 
In the initial 24 weeks of this Phase 2 Study, 12 AEs occurred during infusion. Of these 12 AEs, 6 
events were considered to be related to study drug and thus met the definition for IAR.  
ARs included pyrexia (3 events), and dyspnea, chest pain and headache (1 event each). None of 
these IARs recurred with a pattern suggestive of an anaphylactoid reaction. 
Infusion-Associated Reactions Weeks 25 Through 144 
Of 562 adverse events reported during long-term treatment, 112 events (19.9%) occurred during 
study  drug  infusion.  Of  those,  68  events  were  considered  to  be  related  to  study  drug 
administration and thus met the definition for IAR . 
The most frequently reported IARs were rash (30.8% of events), urticaria (27.9%), hypotension 
(14.7%),  and  pyrexia  (11.7%).  Rash  and  urticaria  were  components  of  anaphylactoid  reactions 
that were observed in 3 patients. 
Anaphylactoid Reactions 
Anaphylactoid reactions to study drug infusion occurred in 8 (22.2%) of the patients treated with 
rhASB. Reactions began as early as Week 6 and as late as Week 55 of study drug treatment, and 
occurred during multiple infusions, though not always in consecutive weeks. The most common 
symptoms  included  fever,  chills/rigors,  rash,  and  urticaria,  although  hypotension,  nausea, 
vomiting, dyspnea, bronchospasm, retrosternal pain, abdominal pain, headache, malaise, and joint 
pain  were  also  reported.  Symptoms  typically  abated  with  interruption  of  the  infusion  and 
administration  of  additional  antihistamines,  antipyretics,  and  occasionally  steroids.  Incomplete 
infusions  were  uncommon.  Subsequent  infusions  were  managed  with  a  slower  rate  of  drug 
administration,  treatment  with  additional  prophylactic  antihistamines,  and,  infrequently,  in  the 
event  of  a  more  severe  reaction,  treatment  with  prophylactic  steroids.  Corticosteroid  use  was 
limited to 6 of the patients with infusion-associated reactions (IARs) across studies. 
A number of patient characteristics were examined in an effort to identify factors that might put 
patients  at  risk  for  anaphylactoid  reactions.  No  relationship  was  observed  between  the 
development  of  anaphylactoid  reactions  and  anti–ASB  antibody  level,  pre-medications, 
concomitant medications, concurrent illnesses, missed infusions, or manifestations of MPS VI.  
Complement Depletion 
Decreases in complement parameters were observed intermittently, primarily in the first 24 weeks 
of  treatment,  in  all  three  clinical  studies,  in  both  dose  groups  and  placebo.  Decreases  in  many 
cases  involved  a  single  complement  measure  and  occurred  only  sporadically.  In  approximately 
one–half of the patients with decreases in more than one complement parameter, antibody levels 
rose  above  10  OD/µL  at  some  time  during  the  course  of  treatment,  not  always  in  a  timeframe 
consistent  with  complement  decline.  There  was  no  clear  correlation  between  decreases  in 
complement parameters and the development of anaphylactoid reactions during infusion. 
Immunogenicity 
Ninety–four  percent  (34/36)  of  all  patients  treated  with  rhASB  developed  anti–ASB  IgG 
antibodies. Initial evidence of antibody development typically appeared following 4–8 weeks of 
treatment.  Ten  patients  developed  antibody  levels  >  10  OD/µL.  The  incidence  of  levels  >  10 
OD/µL was 16.7% (1/6), 30% (3/10), and 31.6% (6/19) for rhASB–treated patients receiving at 
least 24 weeks of treatment in the Phase 1/2, Phase 2, and Phase 3 studies, respectively. Analysis 
of  the  course  of  antibody  levels  over  the  longer  term  (in  the  Phase  1/2  and  Phase  2  studies 
32/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
revealed a steady increase in mean antibody level through Week 48 of treatment, with a gradual 
decline beginning at Week 72 to levels < 2.0 OD/µL by Week 144 in the 5 patients treated for the 
longest duration. 
Four patients with high antibody levels had observable differences in pharmacokinetic parameters 
relative  to  the  overall  study  population.  One  patient  had  a  low  plasma  concentration  of  ASB 
coincident with high antibody levels, and 3 additional patients showed an increase in CL and Vz. 
These  changes  were  considered  to  be  related  either  to  the  effects  of  the  antibody  on  rhASB 
clearance and distribution or to the antibody’s interference with the ELISA assay for ASB. In 1 
patient, reduction in urinary GAG was less than the median for the group overall, suggesting an 
impact of antibody on rhASB uptake and distribution. 
The  risk  of  antibody  development  was  associated  with  very  low  levels  of  endogenous  ASB 
protein.  Higher  antibody  levels  were  more  often  seen  in  younger  patients,  but  the  majority  of 
these individuals had low endogenous ASB relative to the older age groups. 
Higher  antibody  levels  appeared  to  correlate  with  decreases  in  complement  parameters  in  some 
patients;  however,  higher  antibody  levels  were  not associated with anaphylactoid reactions, and 
no  apparent  increase  in  adverse  events  or  alteration  in  the  adverse  event  profile  was  seen  in 
patients with high antibody levels. 
• 
Safety Related to Drug-Drug Interactions and Other Interactions 
No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted. 
Discontinuation Due to AES 
There were no discontinuations due to AEs 
• 
Post Marketing Experience/Risk Management 
Not applicable 
• 
Proposals for Post Authorisation Follow Up (Post Marketing Surveillance) 
Two core risk management programs proposed for safety data collection for rhASB treatment in 
the post-marketing setting are Pharmacovigilance/Safety Reporting and the Clinical Surveillance 
Program. The Clinical Surveillance Program (CSP) will involve the collection and analysis of the 
maximum  amount  of  data  regarding  MPS  VI  and  rhASB  treatment  deemed  to  be  reasonably 
collected  in  a  voluntary,  registry  like,  setting  and  is  intended  to  be  an  ongoing,  observational 
database  that  tracks  the  specific  clinical  outcomes,  including  safety  outcomes  of  patients  with 
MPS VI disease, in particular those who receive rhASB treatment. 
Discussion on Clinical Safety 
Adverse events were generally mild to moderate and the majority judged to be unrelated to study 
drug administration. Severe and serious adverse events were uncommon and were comparable in 
incidence  between  rhASB–  and  placebo–treated  patients.  The  majority  of  SAEs  appeared  to  be 
unrelated  to  ASB  administration.  The  apnoeic  event  which  occurred  during  ASB  infusion  was 
judged to be possibly related to study drug. There is a possibility however, that it may have been 
precipitated by antihistamine use in a patient with severe upper airway obstruction. 
One  death  occurred  in  the  Phase  1/2  Study  after  a  patient  elected  to  withdraw  from  study  drug 
treatment  after  3  weeks.  He  subsequently  developed  a  malignant  brain  glioma  (10 months  after 
withdrawal) and carcinoma of the colon (14 months after withdrawal) and died of complications 
of the brain glioma approximately 20 months following his final study drug infusion. This patient 
was  determined  to  have  a  germline  mutation  of  the  MSH2  gene  that  was  believed  to  be  the 
underlying cause of both the glioma and colorectal cancer. 
Anti–ASB IgG antibodies were detected in the majority of rhASB–treated patients.  Four patients 
with  high  antibody  levels  had  observable  differences  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  relative  to 
the overall study population. One patient had a low plasma concentration of ASB coincident with 
high  antibody  levels,  and  3  additional  patients  showed  an  increase  in  CL  and  Vz.  It  was  not 
entirely clear if these changes were related to the effects of the antibody on rhASB clearance and 
distribution  or  to  the  antibody’s  interference  with  the  ELISA  assay  for  ASB.  In  1  patient, 
33/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
reduction in urinary GAG was less than the median for the group overall, suggesting an affect of 
antibody on rhASB uptake and distribution. 
However,  the  clinical  relevance  to  safety  of  even  higher  antibody  levels  (>  10  OD/µL)  was 
unclear,  as  there  was  no  clear  correlation  between  elevated  antibody  levels  and  anaphylactoid 
reactions  or  clinical  symptoms.  Anaphylactoid  reactions  occurred  in  approximately  22%  of 
rhASB-treated patients; however, these were generally readily managed with interruption and/or 
slowing of the rate of infusion, and the administration of antihistamines, antipyretics, or steroids.  
There  were  no  consistent  or  significant  abnormalities,  either  in  the  laboratory  data  to  suggest 
tissue toxicity or immune complex disease, or in vital signs among the treatment groups. 
At  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  applicant  has  presented  data  which  suggests  that  there  is  no 
consistent  correlation  between  antibody  levels  and  anaphylactoid  reactions,  infusion  associated 
reactions  and  complement  depletion.    However,  in  order  to  understand  the  immunogenicity 
profiles  with  galsulfase,  the  applicant  intends  to  conduct  several  analyses  of  serum  samples 
obtained in the clinical surveillance programme, including subtyping of IgG to ascertain possible 
relationship with overall antibody response and complement fixation. 
In order to address related adverse events the applicant has presented safety data tables of adverse 
events  for  the  pivotal  trial,  together  with  a  reasoned  argument  underlining  similarities  across 
clinical  studies,  consistent  with  the  judgment  of  the  investigators  with  regard  to  likely 
relationship.  
To  address the concern regarding causal and causal/temporal adverse events in the pivotal trial, 
the applicant has presented safety data tables for related and unrelated events in the galsulfase and 
control groups for all patients. The majority of adverse event were considered unrelated to study 
drug  and  represented  common  manifestations  of  MPS  VI  disease.  However,  while  there  was  a 
clear  tendency  for  increased  infusion  associated  reactions  which  were  possibly  related  in  the 
active group; few were considered probably or definitely related. 
The  applicant  has  also  provided  a  120  day  safety  update  for  each  individual  study  as  well  as  a 
combined analysis of all studies. 
The  applicant  has  proposed  a  comprehensive  prospective  pharmacovigilance  plan  as  part  of  the 
clinical  surveillance  programme  to  follow  the  long  term  safety  and  efficacy  of  galsulfase 
treatment. 
The  applicant  will  monitor  particularly  immunogenicity  with  respect  to  the  effect  on  PK/PD 
parameters  and  relationship  to  infusion  associated  reactions,  anaphylactoid  reactions  and 
complement  depletion.  In  addition,  further  long  term  efficacy  data  should  be  submitted.  Safety 
data will especially include adverse events in patients with substantially compromised airways. 
Overall Conclusions, Benefit/Risk Assessment and Recommendation 
Quality 
In  general,  the  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  documentation 
comply  with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance,  have 
been  adequately  described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  has  been  well 
characterised with regard to its physicochemical and biological characteristics, using state-of the-
art methods, and appropriate specifications have been set. The manufacturing process of the drug 
product  has  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is 
controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. The viral safety and the safety concerning 
other adventitious agents including TSE have been sufficiently assured. Except for a number of 
quality points, which will be addressed as part of post-approval follow-up measures, the overall 
quality of Naglazyme is considered acceptable. 
Non-Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology 
The feline MPS VI model has similar pathology to the human MPS VI disease and has been used 
to  investigate  the  effects  of  rhASB  on  various  manifestation  of  the  disease  such  as  lysosomal 
storage,  urinary  GAG  excretion,  body  weight,  physical  appearance,  mobility  and  flexibility,  as 
well as any possible immunological effects resulting from the infusion of a heterologous protein. 
34/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
These  studies  have  shown  that  rhASB  can  reduce  lysosomal  GAG  storage  and  improve  some 
symptoms of the disease, depending on the dose and dose regimen and the age of the cat at start 
of  treatment.  In  this  model,  rhASB  had  no  effect  on  cartilage  or  cornea.  Based  on  the 
pharmacological  effects  in  the  feline  MPS  VI  model  at  a  dose  of  1mg/kg/week,  and  the  tissue 
half-life of rhASB of 2 to 4 days, the clinical dose of 1 mg/kg/week appears reasonable. As some 
clinical  benefits  were  observed  at  0.2mg/kg/week  in  Phase  1, the minimally effective dose may 
indeed be between 0.2 and 1mg/kg/week, but this was not investigated. Based on the results of the 
Phase  1  study  which  showed  more  rapid  and  more  pronounced  uGAG  reductions,  the  1 mg/kg 
dose  was  selected  for  the  clinical  development  by  the  applicant.  The  clinical  dose  will  be  kept 
under review as a post-marketing commitment. 
In the chronic monkey study, liver and skin effects were observed. These findings were reversible 
after a 2-week recovery period, however, potential reversibility would not be relevant should the 
effects  occur  clinically,  given  the  chronic  nature  of  the  treatment.  Exposure  at  the  high  dose 
(10 mg/kg/week)  was  21  to  39  times  that  in  man  following  a  dose  of  1mg/kg.  The  lack  of 
significant liver abnormalities in the clinical studies provides reassurance, however liver toxicity 
will be kept under review as a post-marketing commitment.  
The fact that a full package of reproductive toxicity studies has not been conducted is mentioned 
in  section  5.3  of  the  SPC.  Post-authorisation  commitments  have  been  agreed  for  further 
reproductive toxicity studies with toxicokinetics and clinical monitoring of pregnant women. 
Efficacy 
It is important to note that galsulfase is an enzyme replacement therapy, for MPS VI disease, and 
fulfils an unmet medical need, since there were no satisfactory treatment options for the majority 
of patients having this rare disease. It is to the applicant’s credit that despite a global paucity of 
patients,  data  from  a  well-conducted  24-week  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised 
clinical trial has been submitted.  
In the clinical studies, the data are supportive of efficacy for the 1 mg/kg dose in comparison to 
the 0.2 mg/kg weekly dose in terms of providing a rapid reduction in urinary GAG excretion to 
levels  approaching  normal.  However,  assessment  of  the  evidence  of  clinical  benefit  in  terms  of 
endurance,  based  on  the  12–Minute  Walk  Test,  was  complicated  by  substantial  baseline 
imbalances  in  the  main  trial  and  further  confounded  by  the  variability  in  individual  patient 
responses.  Clarification  of  this  issue  was  provided  by  the  reanalysis  of  the  efficacy  data  in  the 
pivotal  trial,  which  demonstrated  that  the  treatment  advantage  for  galsulfase  is  not  dependent 
upon  the  baseline  imbalance.  In  addition,  results  from  the  open  label  extension  study  of  the 
pivotal trial provided supportive corroborative data from improvements in the 12 minute walk test 
as well as reduction in urinary GAG levels in patients who were previously on placebo and were 
switched to galsulfase after 24 weeks. 
It remains unclear whether intermediate dosage schedules would have shown sufficient efficacy, 
since none were clinically evaluated. In addition, individual PK data from the ten patients in the 
phase  2  uncontrolled  study  would  appear  to  indicate  that  a  maintenance  dose  may  need  to  be 
determined separately as GAG levels reduce over time. Both an initial as well as a maintenance 
dose would need to be further defined through the clinical surveillance program. Furthermore, the 
period of treatment in non-responders also needs to be defined, since a proportion of patients did 
not appear to respond satisfactorily even after six months of treatment. 
The studies did not include patients under the age of 5 or over the age of 29. It should be noted 
that, disease in relatively avascular tissues appears unaffected by rhASB treatment, as reflected by 
development of both corneal clouding and skeletal dysplasia of the ribs in the 2–month old patient 
in  the  sibling  study,  after  10  months  of  treatment  and  the  non-regression  of  these  parameter  in 
older patients. 
Safety 
The overall limited safety profile of rhASB does not raise major clinical issues for this focused 
group of patients. However, an important primary safety concern with rhASB treatment appears 
to  be  the  management  and  treatment  of  patients  with  highly  compromised  airways  by  careful 
35/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
monitoring  of  antihistamine  and  other  sedative  medication  use.  Accordingly,  the  institution  of 
positive–airway pressure during sleep and even tracheostomy  in clinically appropriate situations 
is an important consideration and needs to be clearly communicated. In addition, long term safety 
will be addressed as proposed in the clinical surveillance program. 
From  an  immunological  perspective,  four  patients  with  high  antibody  levels  had  observable 
differences  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  relative  to  the  overall  study  population.  One  patient 
had a low plasma concentration of ASB coincident with high antibody levels, and three additional 
patients showed an increase in CL and Vz. It is not entirely clear if these changes were related to 
the effects of the antibody on rhASB clearance and distribution or to the antibody’s interference 
with  the  ELISA  assay  for  ASB.  In  one  patient,  reduction  in  urinary  GAG  was  less  than  the 
median for the group overall, suggesting an affect of antibody on rhASB uptake and distribution. 
Higher  antibody  levels  appeared  to  correlate  with  decreases  in  complement  parameters  in  some 
patients;  however,  higher  antibody  levels  were  not  consistently  associated  with  anaphylactoid 
reactions, and no significant increase in adverse events or alteration in the adverse event profile 
was  seen  in  patients  with  high  antibody  levels.  For  the  majority  of  patients  who  showed 
generation  of  IgG  antibodies,  no  significant  impact  on  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  the 
drug over the long-term was observed. Nor were there consistent or significant abnormalities in 
the laboratory data to suggest tissue toxicity or immune complex disease. However, the variability 
seen with immunological events needs to be further defined in a larger patient population and will 
be addressed in the Clinical Surveillance Program proposed by the applicant. 
Risk management plan 
The Applicant has provided a Clinical Surveillance Program (CSP) that will involve the collection 
and analysis of the maximum amount of data regarding MPS VI and rhASB treatment deemed to 
be  reasonably  collected  in  a  voluntary,  registry  like,  setting  and  is  intended  to  be  an  ongoing, 
observational  database  that  tracks  the  specific  clinical  outcomes,  including  safety  outcomes  of 
patients  with  MPS  VI  disease,  in  particular  those  who  receive  rhASB  treatment.  (specific 
obligations and follow-up measures). The following commitments are included: 
The  long  term  safety  and  efficacy  of  galsulfase  treatment  will  be  implemented  by  the  time  of 
launch of the product (follow-up measure.).  
The level of antibodies will be monitored in relation to safety and efficacy parameters 
Serious  and  severe  adverse  events  related  to  liver  function  will  be  monitored  as  part  of  the 
Pharmacovigilance activities. 
Data collected will be examined to determine if a suitable Naglazyme maintenance dose can be 
recommended relative to the efficacy endpoints used in the clinical studies, and will be discussed 
with the Rapporteur on an ongoing basis. 
No  additional  risk  minimisation  measures  are  deemed  necessary  other  than  those  stated  in  the 
SPC/PL recommendations, as Naglazyme treatment will be supervised by a physician experienced 
in the management of patients with MPS VI or other inherited metabolic diseases. Administration 
of  Naglazyme  will  also  be  carried  out  in  an  appropriate  clinical  setting  where  resuscitation 
equipment to manage medical emergencies would be readily available. 
The applicant committed to submit an update of the RMP with the first PSUR and further updates 
in  line  with  the  CHMP  “Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  Medicinal  Products  for 
Human use”, i.e. at the same time as PSURs, when new information is received, within 60 days of 
an  important  milestones  being  reached  or  the  results  of  a  study  becoming  available  (specific 
obligations/FUM timelines), and upon request of a Competent authority. 
Benefit/Risk Assessment 
Considering  the  progressive  nature  of  MPS  VI  disease  and  the  implications  for  prognosis, 
together with the heterogeneity of patients in terms of disease manifestation and age, as well as 
the  problems  of  reversing  the  chronic  effects  caused  by  long  term  accumulation  of  lysosomal 
storage,  the  improvements  demonstrated  in  the  clinical  studies,  some  albeit  limited,  appear  to 
36/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
represent clinical benefits for MPS VI patients. The safety profile from the data submitted does 
not raise major clinical concerns. 
However,  in  view  of  the  rarity  of  the  disease,  comprehensive  safety  and  efficacy  data,  such  as 
possible  effects  of  antibodies  on  the  efficacy  and  safety,  the  determination  of  the  optimal 
maintenance  dose,  the  safety  in  children  below  5  year  old,  or  the  long-term  safety  and  efficacy 
cannot be obtained in a reasonable time.  
The risks will be kept under control with the RMP proposed by the applicant 
Accordingly,  the  benefit-risk  is  considered  to  be  positive  under  the  condition  that  a  number 
follow-up measures and specific obligations are performed in the specified timeframe. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Naglazyme  was favourable  in  the  treatment of “long-
term 
confirmed  diagnosis  of 
Mucopolysaccharidosis VI”. 
in  patients  with 
replacement 
enzyme 
therapy 
a 
37/37 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
