18 December 2018 
EMA/879309/2018 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Namuscla (mexiletine hydrochloride) 
Treatment of myotonic dysorders 
EU/3/14/1353 (EMA/OD/074/14) 
Sponsor: Lupin Europe GmbH  
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 9 
4. COMP position adopted on 8 November 2018 ........................................ 17 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Mexiletine hydrochloride 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Mexiletine hydrochloride 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of myotonic disorders 
Capsule, hard 
Oral use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Cardiac therapy, antiarrhythmics, class Ib (C01BB02) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Lupin Europe GmbH   
Hanauer Landstraße 139-143 
60314 Frankfurt am Main 
Germany 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Lupin Europe GmbH - Germany 
9 October 2014 
19 November 2014 
EU/3/14/1353 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Temmler Pharma GmbH & Co. KG to 
Marketing authorisation  
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Hormosan Pharma GmbH – EC decision 9 October 
2015. 
Transfer from Hormosan Pharma GmbH to Lupin 
(Europe) Limited - EC decision of 18 August 2016. 
Transfer from Lupin (Europe) Limited to Lupin Europe 
GmbH – EC decision of 18 May 2018. 
B. Sepodes, K. Dunder 
Lupin Europe GmbH - Germany 
26 June 2017 
18 August 2017 
EMA/H/C/004584/0000 
Namuscla 
Symptomatic treatment of myotonia in adult patients 
with non-dystrophic myotonic disorders. 
Further information on Namuscla can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/hu
man/EPAR/namuscla  
CHMP opinion date 
18 October 2018 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
A. Magrelli/ A. Lorence 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
28 August 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
11-13 September 2018  
questions  
COMP opinion date 
8 November 2018 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the orphan medicinal product designation in 2014 was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing mexiletine hydrochloride 
was considered justified based on a bibliographic compilation of clinical studies which have 
reported the effect of this product in the proposed condition; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to pain with muscle stiffness associated with disability. 
The muscle stiffness can be very debilitating leading to falls associated with fractures and serious 
injury; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 2 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made; this was based on a literature search which was 
conducted by the sponsor; 
in addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in 
the European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the 
medicinal product containing mexiletine hydrochloride may be of significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition. The satisfactory methods of treatment authorised include mexiletine 
hydrochloride being authorised in two EU Member States, which due to its limited coverage does 
not offer sufficient access for patients affected by the condition. The potential increased availability 
through a centralised authorisation is accepted as a justification for a significant benefit based on a 
major contribution to patient care. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The sponsor is proposing that myotonic disorders is a distinct medical entity and thus continues to be a 
condition that can be maintained for this marketing procedure. Myotonic disorders cover two forms: 
myotonic dystrophies (DMs) and non-dystrophic myotonias (NDMs).  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.   
Continuum (Minneap Minn) 2016;22(6):1889–1915 
Myotonia is clinically defined as a difficulty in relaxation of a muscle after maximum voluntary 
contraction. It can affect muscles to varying degrees as well as be aggravated by specific conditions. 
Myotonia may not only affect skeletal muscle but also smooth muscle. Smooth muscle involvement is 
not a typical feature of nondystrophic myotonias but of myotonic dystrophies.  
The spectrum of DMs includes two types: type 1 (DM1) and type 2 (DM2) which are caused by 
mutations in two different genes. The age of onset of DMs ranges from congenital forms at birth to late 
onset at 
70 years.  
DM1 causing mutations are an expansion of a CTG repeat in the 3’ UTR of the DMPK gene. Repeats 
∼
consisting of more than 1,000 CTG-triplets result in congenital DM, the most severe expression of the 
disease. The sexual inheritance also affects the severity of the disease: maternal inheritance results in 
more severe clinical features than paternal inheritance. Additional symptoms described in classical DM1 
include distal muscle weakness, fatigue, cardiac conduction defects, neuropathy, endocrinopathies (on 
top of diabetes mellitus), and alopecia. Age of onset for the classical phenotype ranges between 10 
and 30 years. In congenital DM1 affected children suffer severe and generalized weakness, hypotonia 
and respiratory problems after birth. One study further found that DM1 patients may have an 
increased risk of skin cancer. 
DM2 mutations are located within intron 1 of the CNBP gene: more than 75 CCTG repeats have been 
described as disease causing. DM2 is considered a clinically more benign disorder than DM1 and can be 
distinguished by a proximal muscular dystrophy and sparing of facial muscles, and the lack of a 
congenital form or the severe central nervous system involvement observed in DM1. The diagram 
below taken from Journal of Neuromuscular Diseases 2 (2015) S59–S71 summarises this.  
Figure 2.   
Myotonic dystrophies are multisystemic diseases with a core pattern of clinical presentation which also presents a 
number of dissimilar features making them clearly separate diseases 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
 
The nondystrophic myotonias are channelopathies caused by mutations in voltage-gated ion channels 
on the skeletal muscle membrane resulting in episodic muscle weakness or myotonia. Three types of 
channelopathies have been described (Continuum (Minneap Minn) 2016;22(6):1889–1915): 
•  Sodium channelopathies is associated with an autosomal dominant allelic disorder.  
•  Chloride channelopathies are associated with two types of genetic mutations. One is transmitted as 
a autosomal dominant namely myotonia congenita described by Thomsen in 1876 and the second 
as a recessive namely myotonia congenital described by Becker.  
•  Scwartz-Jampel Syndrome which is linked to anautosomal recesive trait leading to perlecan 
deficiency. Perlecan deficiency is associated with modification of channel function (both sodium and 
chloride channel function) leading to nondystrophic myotonia.   
The condition continues to be described as distinct in a recent literature search and there does not 
seem to be any major changes in classification or description of the condition just more detail 
regarding the different presentations. 
The condition can be considered a distinct medical entity and has not been significantly changed since 
the initial orphan designation.  
The approved therapeutic indication “symptomatic treatment of myotonia in adult patients with 
myotonic disorders” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “myotonic disorders”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on a positive CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition is acceptable.  
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The condition, while not life-threatening, is chronically debilitating. The most common problems are 
stiffness and pain. There is very little data available in the public domain regarding these problems. 
However, one publication cited by the author discussed the average severity of stiffness which was 
rated at 3.85 on a 1-9 scale with a standard deviation of 1.82 between subjects and within subjects of 
1.50 thus demonstrating the variability. Pain is a frequent symptom that may have been previously 
under-recognized and possibly undertreated in the non-dystrophic myotonias. In addition to pain and 
stiffness, permanent and debilitating muscle weakness can develop. This spectrum of disorders is not 
fatal, but has a variable degree of disease severity. The more severe forms may be considered 
chronically debilitating in particular due to pain and muscle stiffness which may lead to impairment in 
daily functioning.   
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor had conducted a literature search which produced articles covering the following 
countries: Croatia, England, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Sweden. The articles range in 
publication data from 1982 to 2017. The reporting of prevalence in several of the articles covers 
subtypes of the condition.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Overview of EU studies on the prevalence of DM and NDM. 
The sponsor highlighted a review article by Theadom and colleagues [2014] which was authored by 
epidemiologists in New Zealand covering different muscular dystrophies worldwide. This included 10 
studies from EU countries on myotonic dystrophy. The prevalence range reported for DM was 0.2 – 1.8 
per 10,000 with the vast majority of studies indicating a prevalence in the range of 1 per 10,000 (i.e. 
0.7 – 1.1 per 10,000). A review publication by Deenen J et al 2015 from the Netherlands narrowed the 
prevalence for Europe to 10 in 100,000 in myotonic dystrophies and 1 in 100,000 in nondystrophic 
myotonia. A recent paper by Lindberg C et al 2017 gives some indication of the geographical 
distribution of the myotonic disorders highlighting that Croatia had prevalence reported of 18 in 
100,000 with Finland reporting the highest at 44.2 in 100,000. It would therefore appear that there is 
some variability of the condition across Europe. Myotonic Dystrophies DM1 and DM2 are reportedly 
more prevalent than nondystrophic myotonias.  
Following a request by the COMP the sponsor provided an updated prevalence calculation based on the 
most recent  published sources (Suetterlin et al. 2015, Wood et al. 2018) as well as information from 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
recently created National registries. The later provide information primarily on dystrophic myotonia 
patients. From these publications the sponsor created the following tables. 
Table 1.   
Country 
Registry 
Reported number of patients in registry 
Bulgaria 
www.nmd-bg.com; 
84 patients with DM; NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
accessed 26.Sept 2018 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
Czech 
www.ready.registry.cz; 
612  patients  with DM;  NDM  not reported  -   number  as of 
Republic 
accessed 26.Sept 2018 
Sept  2018. 
France 
www.dmscope.fr; 
2914 patients  with DM  (2777  with  DM1  and  137  with 
DM2)  –  number reported as of April 2018. 
Germany 
Myotonic Dystrophy 
508 patients with DM; NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
Patient  Registry 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
Poland 
(Germany and 
Polish  Registry  of  
>200 patients with NDM 
Patients  with
Source: Dr Anna Lusakowska custodian of registry 
Neuromuscular 
(Unpublished  Data Jan 2018). 
Diseases 
---- 
378 patients with DM. 
Source: Wood 2018 (data as of April 2017) 
United 
Myotonic Dystrophy 
610 patients with DM – number reported as of July 2016. 
Kingdom 
Patient  Registry 
(DM) 
United 
Non-dystrophic  Patient 
122  patients  identified  from  the  registry  for  study 
Kingdom 
Registry 
(NDM) 
Netherlands  CRAMPS 
purposes  –  number reported by Suetterlin et al in 2015 
482 patients with DM; NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
Spain 
Spanish Registry of 
278 patients with DM, NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
neuromuscular diseases 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
Italy 
The 
Italian  registry
538 patients with DM; NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
for  Myotonic 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
Dystrophy 
Sweden 
NMiS 
211 patients with DM; NDM not reported.  Source: Wood 
2018 (data as of April 2017) 
And data from the most recent publications which are summarised below. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.   
Country 
England 
Ireland 
Italy 
Subtype 
Prevalence 
Reference 
NDM 
0.08 per 10,000 
Horga et al. 2013 
DM1 NDM (MC) 
0.7 per 10,000 
Lefter et al. 2017 
(PC) 
DM (DM1) 
(DM2) 
0.05 per 10,000 
(0.03 per 10,000) 
(0.02 per 10,000) 
1.1 per 10,000 
Vanacore et al. 2016 
(1.0 per 10,000) 
(0.1 per 10,000) 
Sweden 
DM1 
1.8 per 10,000 
Lindberg & Bjerkne 2017 
With the exception of the numbers from Sweden, there is general consensus that the prevalence of DM 
in EU is no more than 1-1.3 per 10,000. There are certain regional differences, such as higher 
prevalence in the Nordic countries (for example western Sweden) and differences in the prevalence of 
DM2 in Germany, Finland and Czech Republic 
Prevalence for non dystrophic myotonia is significantly less (estimated to be 0.1 per 10,000). However, 
studies and registries in this population are scarce. 
The applicant considered that although prevalence studies for in particular NDM are not exhaustive or 
robust, it can be considered more correctly estimated that prevalence for DM in EU is on average 1.1 
per 10,000 and for NDM 0.1 per 10,000. Overall prevalence for dystrophic myotonia would thus be 1.2 
per 10,000 in EU. 
The COMP accepted this revised prevalence calculation for the basis of the maintenance of the orphan 
designation.   
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Mexiletine has been authorised for the treatment of myotonic disorders in France for limited use in a 
hospital setting. There are no other medicines authorised in Europe for this condition. 
There are no pan-European Guidelines on how to manage and treat myotonic disorders. There is 
however a position paper from a working group which has just recently been published in 
Neuromuscular Disorders · February 2018: 222nd ENMC International Workshop: Myotonic dystrophy, 
developing a European consortium for care and therapy, Naarden, The Netherlands, 1–2 July 2016 
Libby Wood, Guillaume Bassez, Baziel van Engelen, Hanns Lochmüller, Benedikt Schoser on behalf of 
the 222nd ENMC workshop participants.  
There are also recent National/Regional Guidelines (many listed in the sponsor’s survey MyoPath): 
•  Scotland: Guideline for the management of Myotonic Dystrophy in adults 2017. Recommendation 
of the use of mexilitene. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
•  England: Mexilitene for the symptomatic treatment of myotonic disorders – first line NHS 2017. 
•  Netherlands: Guidelines for myotonic dystrophy type1 and focused on cardiac complications and 
respiratory function but not for the treatment of myotonia symptoms.   
•  Germany: Guidelines in place from the German Society of Neurology recommendation of the use of 
mexilitene. 
•  Greece: Guidelines used by expert but no specific national guidelines.  
• 
France: Draft guidelines in progress. 
•  Spain: Consensus on treatment of myotonic dystrophy type 1 and guidelines in press. 
It appears that the guideline landscape for myotonic disorders in Europe is evolving and that there are 
a substantial number of national guidelines with the release of the recent position paper in 2018 
mentioned above. This is a significant change from the time of the initial orphan designation. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor claims lack of availability of mexiletine across Europe as the basis of significant benefit.  
The only country where this product has a national licence for the designated condition is France.  
Mexiletine as an antiarrhythmic had previously been available in Europe as Boehringer Ingelheim’s 
MEXITIL which was discontinued in 2008. In order to allow patients in France with myotonic disorders 
to continue benefiting from mexiletine following the withdrawal of the product from France, on 12 
October 2010, the marketing authorisation ownership was transferred from Boehringer Ingelheim to 
AP-HP (Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, France). Since 2010, the product has been available on 
the French market for the “symptomatic treatment of myotonic syndromes (myotonic dystrophies and 
non-dystrophic myotonias or channelopathies)” based on a literature review.  
Mexiletine also has a national licence in Hungary, however the authorisation is for cardiac arrhythmias 
only.  
In Italy, the Agenzia Industrie Difesa-Stabilimento Chimico Farmaceutico Militare took over 
manufacturing mexiletine at the request of national authorities. This is provided to myotonia patients 
on the basis of a “named patient program” but without the presence of a marketing authorisation. 
There are no other products authorised in Europe for the treatment of myotonic disorders. Mexiletine is 
imported to some EU countries (see below) but the source of this import is reported to be from outside 
the EU (Israel, Canada, USA and Japan). 
To support their significant benefit claim the sponsor has conducted a European Survey to substantiate 
that lack of availability of mexiletine results in patient harm. The survey is called “Myotonia 
Observation Survey of Patient Access to therapy avoiding Harm” (MyoPath).  
MyoPath consists of two key elements: (1) a qualitative assessment on the basis of interviews with 
clinical experts and patients/patient advocates in 12 of the 15 Member States targeted across the EU 
(France, Italy, Hungary, Spain, Poland, Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Belgium, Portugal, Greece and 
Romania;in the UK, Finland and Austria no interviews were conducted and (2) a quantitative analysis 
on the basis of an online survey among patients and caregivers. Eighteen Member States were 
targeted in the second survey (Germany, Italy, Poland, France, Romania, Belgium, Spain, Austria, 
Ireland, Slovakia, UK, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden).  The 
largest proportion of respondents was from Germany, Italy, Poland, France and Romania. Responses 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
from Belgium, Spain, Austria, Ireland, Slovakia and UK were low, ranging from 1-4. No responses were 
received from the remaining Member States.  
The full report is included in Annex 2 of the submission. 
Reported availability of mexiletine in the European Union 
Aspects of the availability of mexiletine across Europe are captured in both elements of the survey 
done by the sponsor.  
In the Qualitatively Analysis, a series of interviews with clinical experts and patient representatives 
was performed to obtain more insight in the local treatment habits. The objective of these interviews 
was to evaluate awareness and access of mexiletine. A total of seventeen interviews spanning across 
twelve out of the planned 15 Member States (see above) were completed. Twelve of these interviews 
were held with healthcare professionals and five with patient representatives. The sponsor stated that 
the rationale to select those Member States  was (a) to cover a representative sample of the EU 
population, (b) to have for this purpose information from the main geographical areas and finally (c) to 
involve those Member States where mexiletine is known to be available at least to a certain extent 
(specifically France, Italy and Hungary) as well as those where such supply would not be expected. 
This rationale is well understood and supported, even though it would have been even more useful for 
the purpose of assessment to have all EU Member States included.  
From the interviews it is reported that even for those patients who have a source of mexiletine the 
supply is not always dependable and continuous.  
The interviews focus to a large extent on the awareness of the use of mexiletine in myotonic disorders 
as well as on the access tothe product. It was noted that the awareness of the use of mexiletine in this 
condition is not optimal and thus if awareness was improved this could benefit patients.  
As regards the French national licence for mexiletine, the COMP noted that the marketing authorisation 
was held by a hospital which produced limited amounts of mexiletine solely aimed at satisfying the 
national needs of French patients with the condition. The COMP could not find any record that the 
hospital was exporting the product to other Member States. Indeed it was noted that Member States 
were importing the product from countries outside of the European Union (Canada, USA, Israel and 
Japan).  
The sponsor summarised the statements regarding availability in 12 different Member States in the 
table below. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
Table 3.   
In order to complete the results of the survey carried out by the sponsor, the COMP reviewed the 
availability in the remaining 16 Member States not covered by the sponsor’s survey (Austria, Denmark, 
Finland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Croatia, United Kingdom, 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland, Luxembourg, Cyprus, Malta and Finland). The review was done by the COMP members from 
each of the remaining 16 Member States by checking import status and use of mexiletine in their 
respectiveMember States . Denmark and Slovenia clearly indicated that they had the product available 
on a name patient basis. In Finland, the United Kingdom and Ireland mexiletine is also used on a 
named patient basis, but it was impossible to separate out the use for patients with myotonic disorders 
and the uses in anti-arrhythmic indications. Very limited amounts of mexiletine were requested in 
Estonia (7 boxes for 2017) and Croatia (2 boxes in 2017). In Luxembourg, Malta, Slovakia, the Czech 
Republic, Cyprus, Latvia and Bulgaria, there was no name patient use of mexiletine for the condition. 
There was no response from Austria and Lithuania.  
The findings from the COMP members’ review of their national situation are in line with the findings 
from the sponsor’s MyoPath survey and can be considered to confirm the representativeness of the 
results from the MyoPath survey of the situation across the EU. They also confirm that the French 
authorised product is not being exported to any of these Member States.  
Based on the MyoPath survey and the COMP members’ national review, the availability of mexiletine 
across the EU for the treatment of myotonic disorders can be summarised as follows: 
•  No information from Austria and Lithuania (2 Member States). 
•  Not available in Luxembourg, Malta, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Latvia, Bulgaria, Greece 
and Romania (9 Member States). 
•  Very limited availability for use (condition unverifiable) in Estonia and Croatia (2 Member States). 
• 
• 
• 
Limited availability for use (condition unverifiable) in Finland, Ireland and the United Kingdom. (3 
Member States) 
Limited and intermittent availability for use (condition verifiable) in Belgium, Poland, Spain, 
Sweden and the Netherlands (5 Member States). 
Limited availability for use (condition verifiable) with reports of single tertiary care use in Portugal 
(1 Member States). 
•  Name patient programmes with clearly described availability of the product for use in the condition 
in specialised tertiary care units in Denmark, Germany, Italy and Slovenia (4 Member States).  
•  Off-label use in Hungary. 
•  National Licence in France with product limited to a hospital pharmacy. 
The sponsor’s MyoPath quantitative online survey had as an objective the verification of the 
conclusions from the qualitative interviews, amongst a larger group of patients and caregivers. The 
survey was carried out in the same 15 Member States selected for interviews with the addition of 
Ireland, Slovakia and Estonia (18 countries in total). The survey respondents included participants 
from 11 out of the 18 Member States targeted. A total of 390 patients responded to the survey.   
Notably and in support of the above considerations regarding lack of availability: 80% (n=312) of the 
participants had never received mexiletine for the treatment of their symptoms of myotonia. Seventy-
eight patients (20%) were either currently on mexiletine or had tried mexiletine in the past (n=78;). 
At the time the survey was conducted 54 patients were being treated with mexiletine (~14% of the 
patients surveyed). Those patients were asked if they experienced any difficulty obtaining mexiletine.  
Thirty-seven percent 37% (n=20) confirmed this difficulty. 
The sponsor also submitted a survey which was performed by the Myotonia Subgroup of German 
Muscle Association (DMG) in Germany in 2017 (hereafter “DMG survey”). This included data from 171 
patients with myotonic disorders. Of these, only 17 patients (10%) were taking mexiletine. Several of 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
these patients reported that they obtained mexiletine from non-EU countries such as Canada, USA or 
Japan. 
Based on the above considerations it can be concluded that there is varied and limited availability of 
mexiletine across the EU. Mexiletine is authorised for the treatment of myotonic disorders in only one 
EU Member State (France) and none of the other Member States have access to the French authorised 
product. According to the qualitative survey,  approximately 80% (312 of 390 respondents in the 
survey) of patients with the condition were not receiving treatment with this product.  
It is also noted that in those countries with access to mexiletine, the supply is often disrupted.  This 
confirms that there is lack of availability of mexiletine in the EU.   
Patient harm: 
In order to justify significant benefit, the sponsor claims that lack of availability of mexiletine in the EU 
results in patient harm. The qualitative survey offered patient and expert testimonials which confirm 
the debilitation of the disease and the need for a treatment. 
The MyoPath survey also presented data on patient harm associated with lack of availability and 
disruption to access to mexiletine. In the interviews described in the qualitative part of the survey 
various situations of interrupted treatment are discussed:  
•  Discontinuation of mexiletine as a marketed product in 2008 (Boehringer Ingelheim’s MEXITIL): 
Many patients experienced worsening of symptoms and quality of life that could not be adequately 
improved with alternative therapies. 
•  Mexiletine treatment interrupted: These examples describe the impact that interruptions in 
treatment with mexiletine have on patients’ symptoms and quality of life. For those patients who 
succeed in finding a source of mexiletine, the supply is not always dependable and continuous. As 
a result, patients experience a worsening of symptoms and quality of life when treatment with 
mexiletine is interrupted. 
The findings are further supported by the data from the on-line survey where 390 patients participated 
(the quantitative analysis). In this survey eighteen Member States were targeted (Germany, Italy, 
Poland, France, Romania, Belgium, Spain, Austria, Ireland, Slovakia, UK, Greece, Portugal, Sweden, 
Finland, Netherlands, Estonia, Hungary, Estonia and Finland). The largest proportion of respondents 
was from Germany, Italy, Poland, France and Romania. Responses from Belgium, Spain, Austria, 
Ireland, Slovakia and UK were low, ranging from 1-4. No responses were received from the remaining 
Member States. For the patients who confirmed interruptions in their supply, over two thirds of the 
respective patients experienced this as harmful interruption of their treatment, with type of harm 
described for example as worsened muscle stiffness, mobility, fatigue, falling, pain, swallowing, 
breathing, digestion and sleep quality. Some key results are presented below: 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Level of harm observed on typical myotonia symptoms when treatment with mexiletine is 
interrupted (DM1 and DM2 patients currently or in the past on mexiletine) 
Figure 4.  Level of harm observed on typical myotonia symptoms when treatment with mexiletine is 
interrupted (DM1 patients currently or in the past on mexiletine) 
Similar deterioration of symptom control was seen in the DMG Survey. 
Myotonia is a clinical phenomenon, which refers to a delayed muscle relaxation after voluntary or 
evoked muscle contraction. It is a cardinal feature of myotonic disorders including myotonic dystrophy 
and the non-dystrophic myotonias. 
The Cochrane Review (Trip J, Drost GG, van Engelen BGM, Faber CG. Drug treatment for myotonia. 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2006, Issue 1. Art. No.: CD004762) states “In the case of 
the nondystrophic patients it is noted in the literature that the major clinical manifestation of the non-
dystrophic myotonias is muscle stiffness as a consequence of the myotonia. Additional common 
symptoms include pain, weakness and fatigue. Morbidity in the non-dystrophic myotonias is associated 
with painful myotonia and fatigue which are associated with the best predictors of poor general health 
perception and physical functioning (Brain 2010: 133; 9–22)”.  
The data generated in the online survey showed that withdrawal of mexiletine caused a particularly 
pronounced harm in patients who have nondystrophic myotonia (NDM). The level of harm is higher in 
particular with regards to the recording of pain, digestion, frequency of falling, breathing and muscle 
stiffness as compared with DM1. This is plausible recognizing the use in clinical practice, and based on 
the mechanism of action as a sodium channel blocker. It is also in line with the indication the CHMP 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has given to the product specifically focused on the treatment of patients with non-dystrophic 
myotonia (NDM). The patient harm confirmed in patients who have discontinued treatment with 
mexiletine can be extrapolated to patients who have never been treated with the product. It can 
therefore be considered that patients with NDM not treated with mexiletine are harmed. 
The COMP concluded that the sponsor’s structured survey which used a well-defined methodology 
together with the review done by COMP members demonstrated that there is limited and disrupted 
availability of mexiletine in the EU that results in patient harm, particularly in patients with 
nondystrophic myotonia. It is therefore established that Namuscla will bring significant benefit to those 
affected by the condition.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 8 November 2018 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of myotonic disorders (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 1.2 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to pain with muscle stiffness associated with disability. 
The muscle stiffness can be very debilitating leading to falls associated with fractures and serious 
injury; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union,  Namuscla is of significant benefit to those affected by the orphan condition. The sponsor 
established that the lack of availability of mexiletine and disruption to treatment causes patient 
harm in patients with non dystrophic myotonia. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Namuscla, mexiletine 
hydrochloride, EU/3/14/1353 for treatment of myotonic dysorders is not removed from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/879309/2018 
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
