EMA/136418/2013 
EMEA/H/C/002680 
EPAR summary for the public 
Nemdatine 
memantine  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Nemdatine. It explains how 
the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. 
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Nemdatine. 
For practical information about using Nemdatine, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Nemdatine and what is it used for? 
Nemdatine is a medicine used to treat patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease, a type of 
dementia (a brain disorder) that gradually affects memory, intellectual ability and behaviour. It 
contains the active substance memantine. 
Nemdatine is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Nemdatine is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Ebixa. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Nemdatine used? 
Nemdatine is available as 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and 
treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. Treatment should only be started if a caregiver is available who will 
regularly monitor the use of Nemdatine by the patient. 
Nemdatine should be given once a day at the same time every day. To prevent side effects, the dose 
of Nemdatine is gradually increased over the first three weeks of treatment: during the first week, the 
dose is 5 mg; in the second week, it is 10 mg; and during the third week, it is 15 mg. From week four 
onwards, the recommended maintenance dose is 20 mg once a day. The tolerance and dose should be 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
assessed within 3 months after starting treatment, and from then on the benefits of continuing 
treatment with Nemdatine should be reassessed on a regular basis. The dose may need to be reduced 
in patients who have moderate or severe problems with their kidneys.  
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Nemdatine work? 
The active substance in Nemdatine, memantine, is an antidementia medicine. The cause of Alzheimer’s 
disease is unknown, but memory loss in the disease is believed to be due to a disturbance of message 
signals in the brain. 
Memantine works by blocking special types of receptor called NMDA receptors to which the 
neurotransmitter glutamate normally attaches. Neurotransmitters are chemicals in the nervous system 
that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. Changes in the way glutamate transmits 
signals within the brain have been linked to the memory loss seen in Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, 
overstimulation of the NMDA receptors may result in cell damage or death. By blocking NMDA 
receptors, memantine improves the transmission of signals in the brain and reduces the symptoms of 
Alzheimer’s disease. 
How has Nemdatine been studied? 
Because Nemdatine is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Ebixa. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Nemdatine? 
Because Nemdatine is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits 
and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Nemdatine approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Nemdatine has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent 
to Ebixa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Ebixa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. 
The Committee recommended that Nemdatine be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nemdatine? 
Safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet 
for Nemdatine, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and 
patients.   
Other information about Nemdatine 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Nemdatine on 22 April 2013. 
The full EPAR for Nemdatine can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Nemdatine  
EMA/136418/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Nemdatine, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2013. 
Nemdatine  
EMA/136418/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
