29 September 2009 
EMEA/621022/2009 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Aerius 
Azomyr 
Neoclarityn 
desloratadine   
Procedure No.:   
EMEA/H/C/000313/A45/0057 
EMEA/H/C/000310/A45/0057 
EMEA/H/C/000314/A45/0057 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
As requested by the Guidance To Marketing Authorisation Holders For the Provision 
Of  Additional  Paediatric  Data  Not  Yet  Submitted  To  the  EMEA  (Doc.  Ref. 
EMEA/157537/2005 Rev; dated 10 May 2005), the MAH submitted, on 15 July 2005, 
to  EMEA,  the  Rapporteur  and  the  Co-Rapporteur  data  concerning  the  use  of 
desloratadine  products  in  children  up  to  the  age  of  18  years.  Later,  on  6  February 
2008,  the  MAH  submitted  the  Clinical  Study  Report  for  the  clinical  study  P04141, 
which was not yet finalised in July 2005. 
Now  the  MAH  is  submitting  the  only  recently  finalised  Clinical  Study  Report  for  the 
last remaining study P04299:   
Observational  Study  Evaluating  the  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  Desloratadine  for 
Perennial Allergic Rhinitis in Indonesian Paediatric Patients. This submission, same 
as the previous two, is not done on the grounds of pedriatric requirements (i.e. art 45 
or 46) but in accordance with the above quoted EMEA Guidance.  
II.  SUBMITTED DATA 
Clinical Study Report Study P04299: Observational Study Evaluating the Safety 
and Efficacy of Desloratadine for Perennial Allergic Rhinitis in Indonesian Paediatric 
Patients. 
Synopsis 
Studied Period: 20 May 2005 – 31 March 2008 
Objective: 
The aims of this observational study are to evaluate the safety and general clinical 
response of desloratadine syrup in the relief of symptoms associated with perennial 
allergic rhinitis in Indonesian pediatric patients. 
Methodology: 
Open-label, observational study. 
The  patient’s  diagnosis,  initiation  of  treatment  and  the  necessary  monitoring  and 
follow-up  visits  will  depend  on  the  underlying  medical  condition  and  the  treatment 
prescribed, according to the doctor’s daily practice.  
Demographic data will be collected; each of symptoms as parameters will be graded 
and  scored,  concomitant  therapy  (desloratadine  syrup)  will  be  noted  at  first  visit  by 
the doctor.  
The  patient  will  return  for  a  second  study  related  visit  in  minimum  of  7  days  after 
initiation  of  therapy.  Therapy  response  will  be  evaluated  and  the  occurrence  of  any 
adverse  event  will  be  monitored.  All  drugs  will  be  used  according  to  the 
corresponding prescribing information from physician. 
Number of subjects: 
Approximately  880  patients  will  be  enrolled.  This  study  will  be  conducted  at 
approximately  8  sites.  Each  site  will  enrol  approximately  110  patients  in  order  to 
provide 800 patients that complete this study. 
Diagnosis and Criteria for Inclusion 
Page 2 (4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
A. inclusion criteria: 
-  Children patients of both sexes aged between 1-11 years of any race. 
-  Patients must have unequivocal history of perennial allergic rhinitis. With clinical 
evidence of allergic rhinitis, including nasal congestion, sneezing, rhinorrhea, 
pruritus and lacrimation. Minimum score for inclusion: 10. 
-  Patients must be capable of complying with the dosing regimen. 
-  Patients must be in general good health; i.e. they must be free of any clinically 
significant disease (other than allergic rhinitis) that would interfere with study 
evaluations. 
-  Patients for whom the use of antihistamine is justified by the investigating doctor. 
B. Exclusion criteria 
-  Patients with asthma who require chronic use of inhaled or systemic 
corticosteroids. 
-  Patients with current or history of frequent, clinically significant sinusitis or chronic 
purulent postnasal drip. 
-  Patients with rhinitis medicamentosa. 
-  Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to desloratadine or any of its excipients. 
-  Patients who according to the doctor’s opinion are not suitable for answering in a 
convenient way to the questions established for this study. 
Test Product, Dose, Mode of Administration: 
Study drug: Desloratadine syrup 
Dosage: 2.5 ml (1.25 mg) once daily for 2-5 years old. 
               5 ml (2.5 mg) once daily for 6-11 years old. 
Description Age of Patients: 
Duration of Treatment: 
-  The duration of the study for each subject will be approximately 7 days. 
-  Number of visit: minimum two visits 
Criteria for Evaluation: 
Study variables 
Each of symptoms as parameters will be graded and scored, concomitant therapy 
will be noted at first by the doctor. 
The patient will return for a second visit in minimum of 7 days after initiation of 
therapy. 
Therapy response will be evaluated and the occurrence of any adverse event will be 
monitored. 
Page 3 (4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
All drugs will be used according to the corresponding prescribing information from 
physician. 
Statistical Methods: 
Descriptive data will be recorded. Descriptive analysis will be performed. 
Power and Sample size determination 
Using a 95% confidence interval methodology and a sample size of approximately 
800 subjects will permit the proportion of subject having a Fair, Good, or Excellent 
response in global response to be estimated within +/-5%. 
Results: 
-  Efficacy: 
Nasal  discharge,  nasal  congestion,  nasal  itching,  sneezing,  itching/burning  eyes, 
tearing/watering eyes, redness of eyes, itching of ears or palate revealed significant 
difference between and after the treatment (p=0.0001). 
Based  on  physician’s  judgment:  85.4%  of  subjects  were  evaluated  to  have  good  to 
excellent  condition  after  treatment  with  desloratadine.  Most  of  the  physicians  rated 
the  result  of  treatment  as  good:  58.7%  (350  subjects),  excellent:  26.7%  (159 
subjects), fair: 8.4% (50 subjects) and poor 1.8% (11 subjects). 
-  Safety: 
Incidence of adverse event was found in 4 subjects. 3 of the subjects experienced 
nausea and 1 subject experienced dizziness. All of the adverse events were 
considered mild. 
III.  CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
This  clinical  study  does  not  add  very  much  to  the  existing  knowledge  on 
desloratadine.  It  is  an  observational  study.  There  is  no  control  group  and  it  is  not 
blinded. The study duration is very short (7 days). Many biases can occur in a study 
like this. For example, the patients might have gotten better regardless of treatment 
and observer bias.  
The  results  are  very  positive.  Nasal  discharge,  nasal  congestion,  nasal  itching, 
sneezing,  itching/burning  eyes,  tearing/watering  eyes,  redness  of  eyes,  itching  of 
ears  or  palate  revealed  significant  difference  between  and  after  the  treatment 
(p=0.0001).  In  only  4  subjects  out  of  591  an  adverse  event  was  identified.  The 
reported  adverse  events  (nausea  and  dizziness)  are  already  listed  in  section  4.8  of 
the SPC. This clinical study does not change the existing prescribing information of 
desloratadine. 
Page 4 (4) 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
