24 March 2022  
EMA/567651/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): desloratadine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000962/202107 
Period covered by the PSUR: 16 July 2016 to 15 July 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for desloratadine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data from the literature including in some cases a close temporal relationship, a 
positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC 
considers a causal relationship between desloratadine and depressed mood is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing desloratadine should 
be amended accordingly. 
As described in the literature and signal section of some MAHs, WHO identified a potential safety signal 
of dry eyes for desloratadine during the reporting period. Based on the anticholinergic properties of 
desloratadine and strengthened by the reports with a short time to onset and both de- and 
rechallenges described, the PRAC considers that “eye dryness” should be considered for inclusion in the 
product labels and patient leaflets. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for desloratadine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing desloratadine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/567651/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
