PART VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Neofordex 
(dexamethasone) 
This  is a summary of the  risk management  plan  (RMP)  for  Neofordex. The RMP details important 
risks of Neofordex, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Neofordex’s risks. 
Neofordex’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Neofordex should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Neofordex should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of  Neofordex’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Neofordex  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  symptomatic  multiple  myeloma  in  combination  with 
other medicinal products in adults (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains dexamethasone as 
the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Neofordex’s benefits can be found in Neofordex’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Neofordex,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Neofordex’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
−  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
− 
−  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
−  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Neofordex  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Neofordex. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
 
 
 
the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Medication error related to administration of 20 mg 
Missing information 
dose  
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Potential risk: Medication error related to administration of 20 mg dose 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
This potential risk is based on the safety profile of the 
product  as  reflected  in  the  product  information  for 
Neofordex  as  showed  also  in  CTD  section  2.7.4  - 
Summary of Clinical Safety. 
Besides  the  obvious  risk  group  consisting  of  patients 
prescribed with a 20-mg dose of Neofordex, there are 
currently no established risk factors or risk groups. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 6.4, 6.6 
PL section 3 
Prescription only medicine 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Removal of the score line for sub-division of the 40 mg 
tablet, and consequent deletion of the 20 mg posology. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Neofordex. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Removal of the score line for sub-division of the 40 mg tablet, and consequent deletion of 
the 20 mg posology. 
Purpose of the study: 
An activity to mitigate the important potential risk “Medication error related to administration of 20 
mg dose” and to eliminate the possibility to break tablets and to ensure their use as one dose. 
 
 
 
 
 
