EMA/1660/2016  
EMEA/H/C/004071 
EPAR summary for the public 
Neofordex 
dexamethasone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Neofordex. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Neofordex. 
For practical information about using Neofordex, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Neofordex and what is it used for? 
Neofordex is a medicine used together with cancer medicines to treat adults with multiple myeloma 
who have developed symptoms. Multiple myeloma is a cancer of a type of white blood cell called 
plasma cells, which are part of the immune system (the body’s natural defences). 
Neofordex contains the active substance dexamethasone. It is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is 
similar to a reference medicine containing the same active substance, but Neofordex is available at a 
higher strength. The reference medicine for Neofordex is Dectancyl. 
How is Neofordex used? 
Neofordex can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of multiple myeloma. 
Neofordex is available as 40 mg tablets. The usual dose is 40 mg once a day, taken preferably in the 
morning. However, the dose and how frequently Neofordex is given varies depending on the medicines 
it is given with and the patient’s condition. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Neofordex work? 
The active substance in Neofordex, dexamethasone, belongs to a group of medicines known as 
corticosteroids. In multiple myeloma, Neofordex is used together with cancer medicines to kill 
cancerous plasma cells. It does this by interacting with different proteins (nuclear factor kB and 
caspase 9) that regulate cell death. Neofordex may also reduce certain side effects of cancer 
treatment, such as nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting.  
What benefits of Neofordex have been shown in studies?  
Because the effects of high-dose dexamethasone in multiple myeloma are well established, the 
company for Neofordex presented studies from the literature on the use of dexamethasone for the 
treatment of multiple myeloma.  
In addition, a bioequivalence study was carried out in 24 healthy volunteers which showed that 
Neofordex has comparable quality to the reference medicine, Dectancyl. 
What are the risks associated with Neofordex?  
The most common side effects with Neofordex (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
hyperglycaemia (high blood sugar levels), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), muscle pain and weakness, 
asthenia (weakness), tiredness, oedema (swelling) and weight increase. Less common but serious side 
effects include pneumonia (infection of the lungs) and other infections and psychiatric disorders such 
as depression. For the full list of all side effects reported with Neofordex, see the package leaflet. 
Neofordex must not be used in patients with active viral disease (especially hepatitis, cold sores, 
shingles or chicken pox) or with uncontrolled psychoses (altered sense of reality). For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Neofordex approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Neofordex has 
been shown to have comparable quality to Dectancyl and the use of high-dose dexamethasone in 
multiple meyloma is well established. The CHMP therefore decided that Neofordex’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Neofordex? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Neofordex is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Neofordex, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Neofordex 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Neofordex on 16 March 2016. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Neofordex can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
Neofordex  
EMA/1660/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
more information about treatment with Neofordex, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2016. 
Neofordex  
EMA/1660/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
