SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  1  April  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after 
this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
NeoRecormon  is  the  successor  of  Recormon,  a  product  already  marketed.  The  active  substance  is 
epoetin  beta  (a  recombinant  human  erythropoeitin),  a  'Part  A'  product  produced  by  a  genetically 
modified  mammalian  cell  line  (CHO).  Recormon  is  currently  marketed  under  4  dosage  strengths 
(1,000 IU, 2,000 IU, 5,000 IU and 10,000 IU/vial), each presentation being for single use. 
The solvent is provided in two presentations: ampoule or prefilled syringe.  
On the occasion of the new application, the company introduced two new dosage strengths of 500 IU 
and  20,000  IU  as  well  as  multidose  vials  containing  50,000  and  100,000  and  new  pharmaceutical 
presentations (two-chamber cartridges to be used with a pen system) for 10,000 and 20,000 IU.  
A new pharmaceutical form (solution for injection) in 7 strengths was introduced as an extension of 
the  marketing  authorisation.  These  new  presentations  provided  in  pre-filled  syringes.  Subsequent 
extension applications added two  more strengths of the solution  for injection  in pre-filled syringe to 
the marketing authorisation, together with one addition strength of the powder and solvent for solution 
for injection in cartridge (for use with Reco-pen). 
Finally,  there  are  19  forms  and  strengths  in  total,  which,  in  combination  with  different  packaging 
sizes, result in 39 presentations.  
Dosage form and strength 
Package size 
NeoRecormon 500/1000/2000 IU powder and solvent 
for solution for injection  
NeoRecormon 5000/10000 IU powder and solvent for 
solution for injection 
NeoRecormon multidose 50000/100000 IU powder and 
solvent for solution for injection  
NeoRecormon 10000/20000/60000 IU powder and 
solvent for solution for injection in cartridge 
NeoRecormon 500/1000/2000/3000/4000/5000/ 
6000/10000/20000 IU solution for injection in pre-
filled syringe 
1, 5, 10 vials + 1, 5, 10 ampoules of 
solvent 
1, 5 vials + 1, 5 ampoules of solvent 
1 multidose vial + 1 ampoule of solvent 
1 or 3 two-chamber cartridges 
1 or 6 pre-filled syringes 
Some of the indications which are sought, have been reviewed by the CPMP and have been licensed 
by  member states  between 1990  and  1996 (renal  anaemia in  patients  on  dialysis,  symptomatic renal 
anaemia on patients not yet undergoing dialysis, increasing the yield of autologous blood, and anaemia 
of prematurity). The additional indication under review was: prevention and treatment of anaemia in 
cancer patients. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
During the assessment of this dossier mainly new pharmaceutical aspects have been reviewed by the 
rapporteur  and  co-rapporteur,  even  though  the  entire  documentation  was  submitted.  Indeed,  epoetin 
beta,  as  produced  by  Boehringer  Mannheim,  is  not  a  new  product  and,  as  a  consequence,  this 
submission has to be assessed bearing in mind the experience gained on this product, which has been 
marketed since 1990. 
1/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Composition 
For the purpose of this assessment report the pharmaceutical review will focus on: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the new dosage strength (500 IU/0.5 ml) 
the new formulation for 1000 IU/1 ml and 2000 IU/1 ml dosage strengths 
the new multidose presentations in two chamber cartridge 10000 IU/ 1 ml and 20000 IU/ 1 ml 
new multidose presentations in vial 50,000 IU/10 ml and 100,000 IU/5 ml 
The  lyophilised  finished  product  represented  in  the  500,  1000,  2000,  5000  or  10000  IU/vial 
presentations are composed of the active ingredient and a set of selected excipients. For reconstitution 
before  use,  the  various  lyophilisates  are  dissolved  in  water  for  injection  contained  in  an  ampoule 
(NeoRecormon powder and solvent for solution for injectin) or in a prefilled syringe (NeoRecormon 
powder and solvent for solution for injection in pre-filled syringe). 
The new dosage strength of 500 IU/0.5 ml is a freeze dried product designed to be reconstituted in 0.5 
ml  solvent.  As  this  is  half  of  the  quantity  compared  to  the  optimised  1000  IU  dosage  strength,  the 
composition of the reconstituted solution in terms of excipients is homothetic.  
The  proposed  new  “optimised  formulation”  consists  of  a  revision  of  the  content  in  some  excipients 
keeping in mind the need to keep as closely as possible to the already approved formulation. Most of 
the  adjustments  made  in  the  content  of  the  excipients  are  self-explanatory  (to  keep  the  solution 
isotonic  after  reconstitution).  Supportive  experimental  data  have  been  provided  for  the  reduction  in 
CaCl2  content;  all  formulations  still  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  E.P.  This  optimised 
formulation has been already approved as a variation for the 5,000 and 10,000 IU/1 ml presentations 
and 
extended 
of 
2000  IU/vials.  This  formulation  allows  the  reduction  of  the  volume  to  be  injected  into  patients  and 
enables more convenient subcutaneous administration. 
Recormon. 
1000 
also 
use 
the 
for 
Its 
is 
The  rationale  for  the  development  of  the  multi-dose  presentations  is  to  avoid  any  wastage  of 
reconstituted  product  where  the  optimised  dose  cannot  be  achieved  using  one  of  the  single-use 
products. The  aim  is  to  provide a  preserved  solvent compatible  with  the “optimised formulation”  of 
the  lyophilisate.  The  excipients  contained  are  the  same  as  those  for  the  single  use  formulations. 
However,  for  the  three  of  them  (urea,  calcium  chloride  and  L-phenylalanine),  the  quantitative 
composition was decreased in order to avoid any risk of particle formation during shelf life and after 
reconstitution. 
The 50,000 IU multidose preparation is to be reconstituted in 10 ml preserved solvent before use. The 
100,000  IU  vial  is  designated  for  use  where  a  higher  dose  in  a  smaller  volume  is  required,  thus  the 
content is reconstituted in a 5 ml solvent. 
Both cartridge formulations are reconstituted in 1  ml preserved solvent by placing the cartridge into 
the Reco-Pen. 
The pharmaceutical aspects of pharmaceutical form: the solution for injection in pre-filled syringe was 
assessed  in  the  light  of  the  first  extension  application.  Further  extensions  were  filled  to  include 
additional  strengths  of  the  solution  for  injection  in  prefilled  syringe  and  the  powder  and  solvent  for 
solution for injection in cartridge.  
Active substance 
Epoetin  beta’s  protein  sequence,  biological  activity  and  immunological  reactivity  were  found  to  be 
indistinguishable  from  erythropoeitin  isolated  from  the  urine  of  anaemic  patients.  Its  mechanism  of 
action lies in the stimulation of erythropoeisis. 
Fermentation and production 
A well-characterised fermentation strategy is employed, using standard media for the production cell-
line  CHO-DN2-3α3  expressing  constitutively  the  erythropoietin  gene.  One  vial  of  the  WCB  is 
expanded and a  batch refeed  process is used. A single  production  run consists of a  maximum  of 10 
harvests per fermentation resulting in a maximum of 10 batches after purification. 
2/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purification. 
Each  of  the  10  harvests  is  processed  separately  through  four  column  chromatography  purification 
steps;  Blue  Sepharose,  Hydroxylapatite,  RP-HPLC  on  Vydac-C4  and  DEAE  Sepharose,  resulting  in 
up to 10 batches  of purified product. The data presented demonstrate that the purification  process is 
satisfactorily controlled and documented. 
The  main  steps  in  the  characterisation  of  the  active  substance  employed  are:  amino  acid  analysis, 
carbohydrate analysis, physicochemical and biological characterisation. 
Data on the average rhEPO content by harvest, the average rhEPO yield per batch, and on the degree 
of  purity  for  the  rhEPO  bulk  substances  released  confirm  the  consistency  of  fermentation  and 
purification. 
A documentation for the manufacturing and control of the active substances has been provided.  
Specifications and routine tests 
The  same  set  of  specifications  and  test  procedures  have  been  submitted  as  already  reviewed  and 
approved.  
According to the strategy employed by the company, a number of tests are undertaken for each batch, 
whereas further test parameters referred to as “characterisation assays” are only conducted at the first 
and last batches of each fermentation run. Up to 10 harvests can be derived from one fermentation run, 
each of which is processed separately resulting in up to 10 batches. 
Stability of the active substance 
Data  upon  several  batches  from  the  BM-Penzberg  production  meet  the  specifications  for  all  test 
parameters and demonstrate stability of rhEPO bulk substance for a storage period of three years. No 
difference could be observed between storage at -70 °C and -20 °C. These data are reassuring, showing 
the very good stability of the active ingredient as a bulk solution at -70 °C. It is thus concluded that the 
Company’s proposal for 5 year shelf-life is considered acceptable. 
Other ingredients 
All the excipients are contained in the already approved presentations and have been checked. They 
are acceptable for parenteral administration. 
The  same  colourless  type  I,  2  ml  (10  ml  for  the  multidose)  glass  vial  is  used  for  the  NeoRecormon 
presentations as those for the already authorised forms. A teflonised rubber closure is used. 
A special device for repeated withdrawals in the case of the multidose container is provided in order to 
avoid any trouble with the repeated piercing of the rubber closure. 
Pre-filled syringes consisted of glass syringes with a nominal volume of 1 ml. Fluororesin laminated 
plunger stoppers are used.  
Product development and finished product 
Manufacturing formula 
The  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  of  all  single-use  and  multi-dose  preparations  is  well 
justified.  
Manufacturing process 
The optimised formulation is now used, allowing the same manufacturing process for the preparation 
of  all  single  dose  presentations.  As  a  result  of  the  development  of  the  new  dosage  strength,  the 
manufacturing process was reviewed and some process steps reassessed.  
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  four  steps:  formulation  of  the  drug  product  solution,  sterile 
filtration,  aseptic  filling  and  freeze-drying  (for  the  powder  for  solution  for  injection  only).  The 
company  has  well  identified  the  critical  steps  (performance  of  sterile  filtration,  aseptic  conditions 
during filling, conditions of the freeze-drying process). They have justified the choice of the material 
and equipment used. The batch sizes have been given and are acceptable. 
3/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specifications and tests for release 
All  the  release  tests  proposed  are  identical  to  those  already  approved  for  Recormon.  The  tests  and 
specifications  for  the  solution  for  injections  are  identical  to  those  for  the  powder  for  solution  for 
injections (except for tests related to the pharmaceutical form). 
Stability tests on the finished medicinal product 
For  the  powder  for  solution  for  injection:  identical  protocols  to  those  used  for  the  already  approved 
formulations have been employed also for the new formulation of 500 IU/0.5 ml and 1000 and 2000 
IU/1  ml.  The  same  assessment  criteria,  tests  parameters  and  storage  conditions  were  applied.  All 
parameters  recorded  during  the  stability  studies  at  5  °C  met  the  specifications  for  the  samples 
whatever the dosage strength. 
In summary, data obtained with the new dosage forms using the optimised formulation are reassuring 
in terms of stability of the finished product. Thus, the 2 years shelf life at 2-8 °C seems acceptable. 
A  specific  study  for  the  investigation  of  the  influence  of  interruptions  in  the  cooling  chain  was 
provided for the multidose vials as well as the cartridges. 
Regarding the stability of the multidose presentations after reconstitution, it can be concluded from the 
studies performed that the reconstituted solution can be used for up to one calendar month when stored 
at 2-8 °C. 
The  shelf  life  for  NeoRecormon  (powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection)  for  the  following 
strengths: 500 IU, 1000 IU, 2000 IU, 5000 IU and 10000 IU single dose and 50000 IU and 10000 IU 
multidose was extended to 3 years at 2 – 8 °C. 
For the solution for injection in pre-filled syringes: when stored at 2 – 8 °C, a shelf life of 24 months is 
justified. 
Stability of the solvent 
The two presentations used for the solvent (one-point-cut glass ampoule and pre-filled syringe) have 
already been approved for Recormon. The solvent is the same (water for injection). No modification 
has  been  made  to  the  already  approved  presentations.  Taking  into  account  the  experience  of  the 
company in the manufacturing process, it is concluded that the proposed shelf-life of 3 years for the 
one-point-cut glass ampoule and 2 years for the pre-filled syringe are well justified. 
Stability testing has been also performed on the preserved solvent for the multidose presentations, in 
ampoules  stored  at  5  °C,  25  °C,  30  °C  during  24  months,  at  40  °C  during  12  months  and  at 
50 °C during 3 months. All the results obtained are in compliance with the specifications and confirm 
that the solvent can be stored at room temperature for 24 months, which is fully compatible with the 
proposed storage time for the lyophilisate. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic effects relating to the proposed indications 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  epoetin  beta  in  healthy  animals  have  been  demonstrated  in  numerous 
preclinical studies of various animal studies and different ages. A marked stimulation of erythropoiesis 
which  was  clearly  dependent  on  dose  and  duration  of  administration  was  elicited.  The  PCV  rose 
rapidly  to  levels  considerably  above  normal.  Thus,  animals  treated  with  high  dose  levels  of  epoetin 
beta (rats up to 10,000 U/kg/day), developed a PCV of >80 Vol% over the first three weeks. 
General pharmacodynamics 
Epoetin beta did not have any effect on the peripheral leukocyte or platelet counts. No increases in the 
concentrations  of  urea  and  creatinine  were  seen.  It  does  not  have  any  notable  effect  on  locomotor 
activity  in  mice  after  administration  of  30  and  100  U/kg  intraperitoneally  (ip).  Stimulation  of 
locomotor activity was seen after 300 and 1000 U/kg ip. There were no striking changes (except for a 
slight increase in arterial blood pressure) in hemodynamics or blood chemistry in conscious dogs after 
4/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a single administration of 1000 U/kg epoetin beta iv. After 3 administrations of the same dose within 5 
days, dogs displayed a clear rise in platelet count. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Serum levels of epoetin beta after i.v. and s.c. injection into dogs and rats were compared with those in 
humans.  Total  body  clearance  increased  in  the  order  man<dog<rat.  Terminal  half  life  after  s.c. 
injection  was  clearly  longer  than  that  after  i.v.  injection  both  in  patients  and  in  dogs.  A  striking 
difference between animals and patients was the higher bioavailability from the subcutaneous depot in 
dogs and rats.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity studies 
In acute  toxicity  study performed  in  mice  and single dose intravenous pilot study in beagle dogs no 
effect  was  observed  with  6000  IU/kg  bw.  In  acute  toxicity  study  performed  in  rats  (intravenous 
administration)  accelerated  erythropoiesis  was  seen  from  3,000  IU/kg  bw.  The  acute  lethal  dose  in 
mice was found over 45,000 IU/kg and in guinea pigs over 14,000 IU/kg. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies 
Four  week  study  in  rats  (subcutaneous  administration)  in  order  to  investigate  myelofibrosis  in  early 
stage and its relation with increase PCV showed an increase in hematopoiesis and hyperaemia of bone 
marrow. 
In  3  month  s.c.  test  in  dogs  and  in  rats,  deaths  were  occurred  in  the  middle  and  high  dose  groups 
attributed  to  renal  and  myocardial  thrombosis.  Drug-induced  polycythemia  was  developed  from  the 
first week due to the high doses administrated. Antibodies were developed in some animals from each 
dose  level.  Severe  but  reversible  myelofibrosis  occurred.  Bone  marrow  was  the  target  in  chronic 
toxicity studies both after i.v. and s.c. administration. In the 3-month i.v. study in dogs myelofibrosis 
was the only adverse effect in 7/10 animals after 3,000 IU/kg which often aggravated by osteosclerosis 
but did not influence the clinical or haematological parameters. It was concluded that development of 
myelofibrosis is dependent on the level of the PCV. 
Reproductive function, embryo-foetal and perinatal toxicity 
No  reproductive  risks  were  revealed  in  i.v.  and  s.c.  reproductive  toxicology  studies  in  animals.  The 
only  finding  observed  was  kinked  tails.  Polysorbate  20,  an  ingredient  in  the  formulation  of  epoetin 
beta  did  not  elicit  any  adverse  effects  in  pregnant  rats  and  is  not  responsible  for  the  kinked  tail 
malformation observed. Treatment of female rats with epoetin beta caused adverse effects in both the 
maternal and F1 generation. 
Mutagenic potential 
Epoetin beta did not exhibit any genotoxic potential in the Ames test and a micronucleus test. Neither 
gene mutations were triggered nor chromosome breakage recorded.  
In  an  in  vitro  mammalian  test  conducted  to  amplify  and  complete  the  test  battery,  no  evidence  of 
mutagenic activity was shown either in the presence or the absence of metabolic activation. In an in 
vitro  metaphase  analysis  in  human  lymphocytes,  there  was  no  indication  in  chromosomal  damage 
either in the presence or the absence of metabolic activation.  
It can be concluded that there is no evidence of either mutagenic or clastogenic activity. 
Carcinogenic potential 
The following studies were performed: Investigation of the carcinogenic potential of murine epoetin 
during long term administration in mice, effect of epoetin beta on proliferation and colony formation 
of human tumour cell lines in vitro and in vivo, as well as proliferation of human myeloma cells and a 
rat  study  in  which  implanted  tumours  were  treated  with  cyclophosphamide  and  epoetin  beta.  These 
studies  have  demonstrated  that  epoetin  beta  has  no  tumourigenic  potential,  especially  there  was  no 
influence on tumour progression. 
Local tolerance 
5/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reports  on  local  intravenous  or  subcutaneous  tolerance  revealed  no  problems  with  intravenous  or 
subcutaneous administration of epoetin beta in the applied formulations. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
In the application for NeoRecormon the following indications are reviewed: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
treatment of anaemia associated with chronic renal failure (renal anaemia) in patients on dialysis 
and of symptomatic renal anaemia in patients not yet undergoing dialysis 
increase  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  pre-donation  programme  with 
moderate anaemia (Hb 10 - 13 g/dl [6.21 - 8.07 mmol/l], no iron deficiency) if blood conserving 
procedures are not available or insufficient 
prevention  of  anaemia  of  prematurity  in  infants  with  a  birth  weight  of  750  to  1500  g  and  a 
gestational age of less than 34 weeks. 
prevention and treatment of anaemia in patients with solid tumours treated with platinum-based 
chemotherapy. 
New studies were submitted for the multidose preparations which contain additional preservatives. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Biological effects of epoetin beta were investigated in vitro (bone marrow cultures from volunteers) in 
view  of  demonstrating  its  effect  on  the  various  haemotopoetic  precursor  cells  and  to  determine 
whether epoetin beta has a cytotoxic effect on human bone marrow cells.  
Epoetin  beta  stimulates  human  erythroid  bone  marrow  precursor  cells  and  produces  a  dose-related 
stimulation of the growth of human bone marrow cells towards erythropoiesis. 
No  stimulation  of  megacaryotic  differentiation,  but  an  inhibition  of  the  formation  of  granulocytic 
macrocytic  colonies  in  high  concentration  occurred.  No  indication  exists  of  a  cytotoxic  effect  of 
epoetin  on  human  bone  marrow  cells.  An  allergenic  potential  test  study  in  healthy  volunteers  was 
negative. 
In comparison studies on the pharmacological effects of i.v. vs. s.c. administration it was shown that 
300  IU/kg  s.c.  is  equivalent  to  400  IU/kg  i.v.  in  terms  of  red  cell  volume  available  for  autologous 
blood donation. 
In  conclusion  epoetin  beta  increases  peripheral  hematopoietic  progenitor  cells  and  may  affect 
erythroid  and  myeloid  cell  lineages.  Iron  deficiency,  underlying  infections,  malignant  processes, 
myelodysplastic  disorders,  folic  acid,  B12  deficiencies  diminish  the  response  to  epoetin  beta  and 
supplementation has to made consequently during the course of epoetin beta treatment. 
Pharmacokinetics 
It was found that the elimination kinetics of epoetin beta is independent of the dose given. 
The increase in epoetin beta plasma concentration after s.c. administration is more moderate than after 
i.v. injection. 
The terminal half-life is between 4 and 12 h after i.v. dosing and 8-22 h after s.c. administration. 
The  relative  biovailability  after  s.c.  administration  is  23-52%  lower  than  after  i.v.,  independently  of 
the dose given. 
Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic investigations were not performed with the multidose forms, 
since the formulation has not changed and the small amount of preservative is not expected to make 
any  difference  in  pharmacokinetics.  On  the  other  hand,  safety  and  tolerability  of  the  solvent  of 
multidose  form  after  s.c.  Administration  was  assessed  in  volunteers.  No  effect  on  haematological 
variables was found. 
6/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies 
1. 
Treatment of anaemia of chronic renal failure 
Efficacy 
MF no 
Patient with 
3787 
haemodialysis 
No. evaluable 
for efficacy 
(epoetin beta) 
90 (90) 
ROD 
3787 
haemodialysis 
84 (84) 
ROD 
3787 
haemodialysis 
53 (53) 
ROD 
3981 
haemodialysis 
99 (53) 
RBP 
3826 
haemodialysis 
14 (14) 
Design 
Epoetin beta dose 
Duration of 
treatment 
Up to 18 
months 
Up to 36 
months 
s.c.: up to 
18 months 
Corr. 1 
month 
Maint.: up 
to 6 months 
15 months 
Up to 10 
months 
Up to 14 
months 
12 months 
40, 80 or 120 IU/kg 
3x/ week i.v. 
Maintenance, adjusted 
to haematocrit, i.v. 
Maintenance, adjusted 
to haematocrit, s.c., 
i.v. 
80 IU 3x/week for 
correction, 40 IU for 
maintenance, i.v. 
100 IU/kg 3x/week, 
i.v. 
80 or 120 IU/kg 
3x/week, i.v. 
See above  
20 IU/kg 3x/week, 
dose titr. i.v. 
OS 
OS 
OS 
OS 
304 (304) 
48 (48) 
41 (41) 
90 
RBA 
338 (170) 
ROU 
40 IU/kg 3x/week, titr. 
steps of 20 IU/kg, s.c., 
i.v. 
20 IU/kg 3x/week, titr. 
steps of 20 IU/kg s.c. 
13 months 
12 months 
66 (66) 
OS 
20 IU/kg 3x/week, titr. 
steps of 20 IU/kg s.c. 
12 months 
12 (12) 
OS 
At least 4 
months 
16 months 
12 months 
s.c. : change from 
daily adm.to 3x/week, 
weekly dose 
unchanged, s.c. 
5, 10 or 20 IU/kg 
daily, s.c. 
Penzberg or 
Cambridge EPO, 
maintenance dose 
adjusted to 
haematrocrit, 3x/week 
s.c. i.v. 
7/14 
EMEA 2004 
Transfusion or 
ferritin > 700 
ng/ml, 
haemodialysis 
See above 
Haemotocrit ≤ 
28%, 
haemodialysis 
Haemotocrit ≤ 
28%, 
haemodialysis 
Haemotocrit ≤ 
28% or blood 
transfusion, 
haemodialysis 
Haemotocrit ≤ 
28%, 
haemodialysis 
haemodialysis 
3911 
3911 
4174 
4173 
4135 
4129 
4083 
4100 
4169 
Peritoneal 
dialysis 
Dialysis treated 
with Cambridge 
EPO s.c. or i.v. 
for at least 6 
months 
98 (98) 
ROD 
RBA 
286 (Penzberg 
143, 
Cambridge 
143) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4200/420
1 
Predialysis 
Haemotocrit ≤ 
30% 
225 (225) 
OS 
126 (126) 
OS 
500 IU daily or 100 IU 
3x/week if BW ≤ 75 
kg ; double dose if 
BW> 75 kg s.c. 
40, 80 or 100 IU/kg 
3x/week or 
300 IU/kg 1w/week 
i.v. 
Up to 11 
months 
26 months 
3904 
4323 
Children, 
haematrocrit ≤28 
%, ≤ 3 
transfusions last 
6 months or 
ferritin ≥ 700 
ng/ml, dialysis 
Children, end-
stage renal 
failure 
41 (41) 
OS 
Maintenance, s.c., 
dose adjusted for 
haemotocrit 
12 weeks 
R = randomised, O = open label, B = double blind, S = single group, A = active control group, P = 
placebo control group, U = untreated control group, D = dose response group(s) 
A total of 1663 patients were included in studies designed to correct renal anaemia in dialysis and pre 
dialysis patients. The main results were:  
• 
• 
Dose-dependent  increases  in  the  reticulocyte  count  and  in  hematocrit  were  observed  from  the 
first and second week. 
An increase in hematocrit of about 0.5-1% is expected with the recommended dose regimens. 
The target hematocrit was reached by most patients after 12 weeks. The need for regular transfusions 
was abolished earlier (usually at 4 weeks). The recommendations for the starting doses were the same 
for  the  children  as  in  adults,  but  the  effects  of  the  epoetin  beta  were  age-dependent.  No  impact  on 
growth retardation was found. 
Safety 
Most  common  treatment  related  adverse  effects  are:  increase  in  blood  pressure  or  aggravation  of 
existing hypertension, especially in the case of rapid PCV increase. Thromboembolic adverse effects 
were classified as serious in 9.9% of patients studied. A moderate dose-dependent rise in platelet count 
was  observed especially after i.v. administration. A fall in serum ferritin values simultaneously with 
rise  of  haematocrit  was  observed  leading  to  iron  substitution.  Rarely,  transient  increases  in  serum 
potassium and phosphatases have been observed. 
The  most  frequently  reported  causes  of  death  were  adverse  effects  related  to  cardiovascular  system, 
followed in frequency by infections. 
Conclusion 
On the above mentioned grounds the CPMP confirmed a favourable risk/benefit assessment. 
In October 2002, Roche Registration Ltd. submitted a type II variation application for a new frequency 
of subcutaneous administration in the maintenance phase of the treatment of anaemia associated with 
chronic  renal  failure,  namely  a  “once  every  two  weeks”  administration.  This  application  was 
supported by a clinical pharmacology study (BP15984) and a clinical therapeutic trial (BA16108). 
Study BP15984  
This study was a parallel group, randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled single centre 
exploratory trial in healthy volunteers (n = 54). The goal was to determine epoetin beta concentrations 
over various dosing intervals. Three dosing schedules were followed: 50 IU/kg 3 times per week, 150 
IU/kg once weekly and 300 IU/kg once every 2 weeks. The same cumulative dose of 600 IU/kg of 
epoetin beta was administered in each treatment group over a 4-week period followed by a 3-week 
follow-up period. The three active treatment groups and the corresponding placebo groups were 
comparable with respect to demographic data (gender, age, weight, height and race). 
8/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results showed that both the once weekly and thrice weekly dosing interval led to epoetin beta 
concentrations above baseline for the entire week.  
Study BA16108 
This was an open-label, non-randomised, two cohort trial to compare the efficacy of maintenance 
therapy with subcutaneous epoetin beta in clinically stable adult patients with chronic renal anaemia 
on peritoneal dialysis who switched from previously twice or thrice weekly to “once weekly”, or from 
previously “once weekly” to once every two weeks administration. The study consisted of a 4-week 
run-in phase and a subsequent 25-week treatment phase.   
The results showed that Mean Hb levels decreased in both groups, the decrease being more 
pronounced in the “once every two weeks” group, but the lower limits of the 95% confidence intervals 
for the mean changes in Hb from baseline to weeks 13-25 did not exceed the pre-defined limit of –
0.75 g/dL. Hb levels can be maintained when switching patients from “once weekly” to “once every 
two weeks” dosing regimen, but increases in epoetin beta dose are expected in a substantial number of 
patients. 
There was no excess incidence rate of AE or SAE in the once every two weeks administration 
compared to the once or thrice weekly dosing regimen. 
2. 
Autologous blood donation from patients scheduled for elective surgery 
Efficacy 
MF no 
Patient with 
4185 
4228 
4312 
Elective ortho-
paedic surgery 
Elective cardiac 
surgery 
Total hip surgery 
No. evaluable 
for efficacy 
(epoetin beta) 
127 (99) 
RBP 
197 (159) 
RBP 
95 (50) 
ROU 
Design 
Epoetin beta dose 
Duration of 
treatment 
100, 200, 400, 800 
IU/kg x 2 /week, i.v. 
100, 200, 400, 800 
IU/kg x 2 /week, i.v. 
500 IU/ kg x 2 /week, 
s.c. 
4 weeks 
4 weeks 
3 weeks 
R = randomised, O = open label, B = double blind, P = placebo control group, U = untreated control 
group 
In  study  4185  and  4228,  the  primary  endpoint  was  the  gain  in  Red  Cell  Volume.  Furthermore,  in 
studiy 4321, the primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with peri-operative blood transfusion. 
Treatment  with  epoetin  beta  increases  the  amount  of  autologous  blood  available  at  the  time  of  the 
elective surgery. In study 4228, 71 % of patients of the 800 IU group were able to donate 6 times or 
more, versus only 32 % of the placebo patients. Similar results were found in study 4185. The period 
of anaemia after blood donation is shortened. The dosages are higher than in renal anaemia 200 to 800 
IU/kg  bw  i.v.  or  150  to  600  IU/kg  bw  s.c.  twice  a  week  over  4  weeks  prior  to  surgery.  The  oral 
substitution of iron is essential. The decision on the use prior to elective surgery requires consideration 
of: 
• 
• 
• 
no iron deficiency  
hematocrit of > 34% 
expected need for transfusion 
Apart  from  two  orthopaedic  patients,  all  other  patients  in  studies  4185  and  4228  needed  blood 
transfusion. A pronounced drop in hematocrit was noted during the first two weeks. 
In  study  4312,  the  proportion  of  patient  with  transfusions  and  the  number  of  units  transfused  were 
statistically  significantly  reduced  with  epoetin  beta  vs.  control.  Moreover  the  need  for  homologous 
transfusions was reduced by two thirds after treatment with epoetin beta. 
Despite oral substitution of iron, a functional iron deficiency occurred in many patients, particularly in 
those receiving epoetin beta. 
9/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
A  total  of  475  patients  were  analysed  in  the  indication  autologous  blood  donation.  Adverse  events 
were  reported  in  above  half  of  the  epoetin  patients  compared  with  35  %  in  controls.  Most  common 
adverse  events  were  coronary  heart  disease  (9.7  %  vs.  5.1  %)  and  upper  respiratory  tract  infections 
(5.0 % vs. 1.7 %) as well as typical complaints of blood donation. Myocardial infarctions, which were 
observed only in epoetin treated patients, occurred in the cardiosurgical population, and were mostly 
directly related to cardiosurgical problems.  
The  decision  on  the  use  on  the  ABD  requires  considerations  of  the  patient  blood  volume,  baseline 
PCV and expected need for transfusions. Nomograms presented in the SPC are useful in determining 
the effective dose. The occurrence of thromboembolic events in the treated population was discussed 
in detail and statement was introduced in the SPC to make the physician aware of the need to balance 
the expected efficacy with the increased risk of occurrence of thromboembolic events. 
Conclusion 
The  CPMP considered that this indication can be approved of a  favourable risk/benefit  balance in a 
very specific patients population described in the SPC as follows: 
“NeoRecormon  is  indicated  for  increasing  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  pre-
donation programme. Its use in this indication must be balanced against the reported increased risk of 
thromboembolic events. Treatment should only be given to patients with moderate anaemia (Hb 10 - 
13 g/dl [6.21 - 8.07 mmol/l], no iron deficiency) if blood conserving procedures are not available or 
insufficient  when  the  scheduled  major  elective  surgery  requires  a  large  volume  of  blood  (4  or  more 
units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males).” 
3. 
Prevention of anaemia of prematurity 
MF no 
Infants with 
4105 
4216 
4268 
Gestational age  
28 – 32 weeks 
Gestational age  
28 – 33 weeks 
Birth weight  
750 – 1499 g 
No. evaluable 
for efficacy 
(epoetin beta) 
93 (43) 
ROU 
18 (18) 
OD 
177 (85) 
RBU 
Design 
Epoetin beta dose 
Duration of 
treatment 
30 IU/kg every third 
day 
100, 200 or 400 IU/kg 
every other day 
250 IU/kg 3x/week 
3 weeks 
1.5 weeks 
6 weeks 
R = randomised, O = open label, B = double blind, U = untreated control group, D = dose response 
group(s) 
The first two studies were pilot studies, carried out to select a dose. Study 4268 was the pivotal study. 
Epoetin  beta  therapy started  on  day  3 of  life.  Infants  with  prolonged ventilation  or haemolysis were 
excluded. The dosage was 750 IU/kg bw and week, 17 injections within 39 days. The relation between 
effect  and  birth  weight  was  analysed  as  besides  the  body  weight,  additional  factors  influence  the 
anaemia. 
Efficacy 
Although a slight rise in reticulocytes count was noted, there was no relevant reduction in the need for 
transfusions in the first 14 days of treatment. It means that epoetin beta has no acute effect as blood 
transfusions  have.  Success  rates  however,  proved  to  be  dependent  on  baseline  birth  weight  and 
haematocrit. Results supported efficacy of epoetin beta for the prevention of anaemia of prematurity in 
infants with a birth weight of 750 to 1500 g and a gestational age of less than 34 weeks. Epoetin beta 
was  likely  to  benefit  more  untransfused  infants,  than  infants  who  have  already  been  transfused. 
Despite iron substitution the percentage of infants with low iron stores rose from 11% to 59% in the 
epoetin group and from 11% to 19% in the control group, therefore oral iron treatment should begin as 
early as possible. The reconstituted solution should be administered subcutaneously at doses of 3x250 
IU/kg body weight and by week in the first six weeks of life, preferably starting by day 3 of life. The 
treatment should not exceed 6 weeks. 
10/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
In  total  406  premature  infants  (213  treated  with  epoetin  beta)  were  analysed.  The  most  frequently 
reported adverse events were sepsis/meningitis/arthritis (incidence not relevantly different in epoetin 
beta  group  versus  the  control  group).  Serious  adverse  events  occurred  in  8.5  %  of  the  epoetin  beta 
patients and 11.0 % of controls. 
Multidose forms are contra indicated for use in new born infants since serious adverse effects related 
to intravenous administration of benzyl alcohol (solvent) are expected, especially in premature infants 
where the metabolic pathway of benzyl alcohol may not be functional. 
Conclusion 
Taking into consideration the expected benefit for the premature babies, and the fact that the medicinal 
product  will  be  used  in  this  indication  in  specialised  units,  the  CPMP  concluded  that  this  indication 
can be approved. Additional comparative clinical data would be useful to confirm the safety profile in 
this particular patient population. 
4. 
Prevention  and  treatment  of  anaemia  in  patients  with  solid  tumours  treated  with 
platinum-based chemotherapy 
MF no 
Patient with 
4249 
4321 
Ovarian cancer, 
platinum based 
chemotherapy 
Various solid 
cancers, patinum 
based 
chemotherapy  
No. evaluable 
for efficacy 
(epoetin beta) 
120 (85) 
Design 
Epoetin beta dose 
Duration of 
treatment 
ROU 
150 or 350 IU/kg 
3x/week s.c. 
24 weeks 
108 (57) 
ROU 
5000 IU daily 
3 months 
R = randomised, O = open label, U = untreated control group 
On the basis of the clinical results provided, showing evidence of clinical benefit in terms of reduction 
of blood transfusions, with an acceptable safety profile, the CPMP considered that a licence should be 
granted  for  the  treatment  of  anaemia  in  adults  of  more  than  18  years  of  age  with  solid  tumours 
receiving a platinum based regimen. The starting dose should be 150 IU/kg 3 times a week. If Hb falls 
by more than 1 g/dL after the first cycle of chemotherapy, this treatment may fail. 
5. 
Treatment of anaemia in patients with lymphoid malignancies 
In June 2000, Roche Registration Ltd. submitted a type II variation application to extend the indication 
of  NeoRecormon  for  the  treatment  of  anaemia  in  adult  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  (MM),  low 
grade  non-Hodgskin‘s  lymphoma  (NHL)  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  (CLL),  who  have  a 
relative erythropoietin deficiency and are receiving anti-tumor therapy.  
The  MAH  submitted  5  clinical  studies  (a  total  of  976  cancer  patients,  817  of  these  with  a 
hematological malignancy) in support  of the extension of indication. The  main clinical development 
program comprised three randomised-controlled studies (MF4467, MF4313 and MF4250).  
Study 
Patient with 
MF4467  MM, NHL, CLL 
No. evaluable 
for efficacy 
(epoetin beta) 
343 
MF4313  MM, NHL, CLL 
MF4250  MM, NHL (incl. 
CLL) 
146 
144 
Design 
Epoetin beta dose 
Duration of 
treatment 
R PC DB 
PG 
R O PG 
R O PG 
150 IU/kg 3x/week 
. 
1000, 2000, 5000 or 
10000 U daily 
2000 to 10000U daily 
16 weeks 
8 weeks 
24 weeks 
11/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MF4421  Malignant 
disease 
MF4403  Malignant 
disease 
262 
(138 with 
MM, NHL, 
CLL) 
104 
(58 with MM, 
NHL, CLL) 
R O PG 
150 IU/kg 3x/week 
12 weeks 
NC 
150 IU/kg 3x/week 
18 or 24 
weeks 
R = randomised, PC = Placebo Controlled, DB = Double blind, PG = parallel group, O = open label, 
NC = noncomparative. 
Study MF4313 was a dose finding study in transfusion-independent patients that also demonstrated the 
effectiveness of epoetin beta in this population and MF4250 was a therapeutic study that was planned 
to provide confirmatory evidence of efficacy. Study MF4467 is a randomised phase III pivotal study 
in patients with MM, NH or CLL who have a relative erythropoietin deficiency. This study is placebo 
controlled  and  stratified  on  the  type  of  tumours.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of 
transfusion-free patients between week 5 and week 16 after start of study treatment. The proportion of 
patients  who  required  transfusion  or  died  during  study  week  5-16  was  33.3  %  in  the  epoetin  beta 
group, compared with 52.4 % in the placebo group (p<0.0012), giving a relative risk reduction of 43 
%.  The  beneficial  effect  of  epoetin  beta  was  also  demonstrated  in  the  subgroup  analysis  of  MM 
patients.  In  the  NHL  and  CLL  subpopulation,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  reached  statistically 
significance  only  in  the  prespecified  alternative  analysis  (endpoint:  transfusion-and  severe  anaemia-
free  survival),  which  included  patients  with  severe  anaemia  as  treatment  failures.  The  data 
demonstrated  that  epoetin  beta  has  also  a  significant  impact  on  quality  of  life  in  the  subgroups  of 
patients  with  NHL  and  CLL.  Epoetin  beta  treatment  was  associated  with  improvement  in  other 
secondary efficacy parameters (haemoglobin level) in all three malignancy types. 
In June 2002, Roche Registration Ltd. submitted a type II variation application for a new frequency of 
subcutaneous administration in the maintenance phase of the treatment of anaemia associated in adult 
patients  with  lymphoid  malignancies;  a  “once  weekly”  administration  in  addition  to  the  already 
approved 3 times and 7 times per week. 
The application was supported by one clinical pharmacology study (BP15984 [7200]), this study has 
been already once submitted for the earlier renal anaemia variation procedure and one clinical 
therapeutic trial (BO16196B [8039]). In addition, the pivotal study of once weekly administration in 
renal anaemia (BA15959 [8034]) was submitted as supportive data. 
Clinical aspects 
Study BP15984  
The results showed that both the once weekly and thrice weekly dosing interval led to epoetin beta 
concentrations above baseline for the entire week. The dose-normalised AUC was higher in the once 
weekly and once every 2 weeks as compared to the thrice-weekly dosing interval. In study BP 15984, 
AEs were similar in all treatment groups and between placebo and treatments. 
Study BO16196B- Study in Lymphoid Malignancies  
This study was an open label, randomised, controlled multicentre study of two parallel groups in 
patients with lymphoid malignancies (multiple myeloma, NHL and CLL), transfusion independent 
anaemia (haemoglobin [Hb] 9-11 g/dL, no transfusion in the 2 months prior to planned start of 
study treatment) and serum erythropoietin less than 100 mU/mL. This was the pivotal study in 
patients with lymphod malignancies. The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate that 
once weekly epoetin beta therapy was at least as effective as thrice weekly administration of 
epoetin beta to anaemic patients with lymphoid tumours. A total of 241 patients were randomly 
allocated to once weekly treatment (n=119) or thrice weekly treatment (n=122). No clinical relevant 
differences in laboratory values or vital signs between the two groups. 
Analyses on the primary endpoint provided consistent evidence that differences between the groups 
did not exceed 0.6g/dL. In addition, all secondary variables supported comparable efficacy of the two 
12/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regimens. Increases from baseline in haematocrit (Hct) were comparable in both groups, with a 
mean increase from baseline in Hct of 6.7 vol% in the once weekly group and 6.8 vol% in the 
thrice weekly group.  
Study BA15959- Study in Renal Anaemia 
This study had already been submitted to provide support for once weekly vs. thrice weekly 
administration in patients suffering from renal anaemia. One hundred seventy three  
haemodialysis patients with chronic renal failure were randomly allocated to receive their 
previous weekly epoetin beta dose as a once weekly s.c. injection (n=84) or in divided doses 
thrice weekly (n=89). 
The two treatment regimens were shown to be therapeutically similar in maintaining adequate and 
stable hematocrit. 
Efficacy 
There was no clinically relevant difference with regard to erythropoiesis and pharmacokinetic 
parameters between thrice weekly and once weekly s.c. injection of NeoRecormon in patients 
suffering from anaemia due to lymphoid malignancies. Since the dose is ultimately individually 
titrated in every patient, the small differences observed in the studies BP15984 and BO16196B with 
regard to efficacy are of no concern. The most apparent potential benefits of a once weekly s.c. 
administration are a reduction in the number of injections and an increased compliance of patients, 
given that NeoRecormon is for self-administration. 
Safety 
The comparative review of the different treatment groups does not raise any concerns of an increased 
risk in the once weekly group in either of the 3 clinical studies submitted for evaluation 
Overall safety analysis 
The  overall  safety  analysis  of  the  use  of  epoetin  beta  in  the  indications:  renal  anaemia,  autologous 
blood donation, anaemia of prematurity and anaemia of solid tumours are already mentioned. 
Most  common  adverse  events  were:  cardiovascular  events  (mainly  hypertension),  upper  and  lower 
respiratory tract infections, changes in laboratory  parameters such  as: hyperkaliemia  and  increase  of 
liver enzymes, injection site reactions. The most frequently reported adverse effects at withdrawal in 
the case of patients with renal failure were hypertension and shunt thrombosis. 
Due to the very nature of the study population most of the deaths reported were from progression of 
their underlying diseases.  
Adverse events of special interest were thromboembolic, hypertensive, allergic events and neoplasms.  
In anaemia of prematurity 4 thromboembolic events were reported as being serious none of which was 
assessed as being possibly related to epoetin beta therapy.  
In  oncologic  indications  there  was  one  serious  thromboembolic  event  assessed  as  being  possibly 
related to epoetin beta therapy.  
In  renal  anaemia  one  case  of  angio-oedema  and  in  oncologic  indications  one  case  of  urticaria  were 
reported as being serious and assessed as possibly related to epoetin beta therapy. 
There  were  no  reports  of  newly  developed  neoplasms  assessed  as  being  possibly  related  to  epoetin 
beta therapy. 
The safety profile of studies in patients with MM, NHL or CLL is reassuring and does not indicate any 
new  major  concern  when  compared  to  the  previously  approved  indications  for  NeoRecormon.  The 
company will monitor closely hypertension, headache, hypercalcaemia, bone pain and gastrointestinal 
adverse events.  
Post marketing experience 
Six  Periodic  safety  update  reports  (PSUR)  have  been  submitted  by  the  company  and  have  been 
assessed by the rapporteur.  
13/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The outcome of the PSURs did not change the benefit/risk ratio of epoetin beta. As a result of the first 
PSUR  (covering  the  period  1.9.94-15.1.98),  changes  have  been  implemented  in  the  SPC  to  cover 
observed  adverse  reactions  (hypersensibility  reactions,  rash  and  urticaria).  After  the  second  PSUR 
(covering  the  period  16.1.98-15.7.98),  the  SPC  has  been  amended  to  include  the  occurrence  of 
thromboembolic events (in the indication Anaemia in oncology) and flu-like symptoms. No changes 
of the SPC were necessary after assessment of the third and fourth PSUR. Following the assessment of 
the  fifth  PSUR  (covering  period  1.7.99-15.1-00),  a  statement  was  included  in  sections  4.8  and  5.1 
indicating  that  in  very  rare  case,  neutralising  anti-erythropoietin  antibodies  with  or  without  pure  red 
cell aplasia occurred during rHuEPO therapy.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
On  the  basis  of  the  assessment  of  the  dossier  as  described  in  this  assessment  report,  taking  into 
consideration the oral explanations provided by the company during the hearing held on 15 October 
1996, the CPMP after considerable discussions and in depth evaluation of the risk/benefit balance in 
each  proposed  indication,  amended  in  detail  the  proposed  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  in 
order to ensure that all the consideration were properly reflected.  
On  16  November  2000,  the  CPMP  considered  that  NeoRecormon  showed  adequate  evidence  of 
efficacy  for  extension  of  the  indication  to  the  treatment  of  anaemia  in  adult  patients  with  multiple 
myeloma,  low  grade  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia,  who  have  a 
relative  erythropoietin  deficiency  and  are  receiving  anti-tumor  therapy,  as  well  as  a  satisfactory 
risk/benefit profile and therefore recommended that the Marketing Authorisation should be extended 
for this indication.  
To  date  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological  part  of  the  dossier  concerning  Neorecormon 
remains carefully documented and overall is satisfactory. The final data on quality, safety and efficacy 
which  were  provided  after  the  CPMP  opinion  was  granted  did  not  affect  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
Neorecormon but led to adequate changes to the product information. 
14/14 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
