European Medicines Agency  
Product name: NEORECORMON 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/116/II/37 
SUMMARY OF THE 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
EMEA 2005 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  the  publication  of  two  clinical  studies  showing  an  increased  mortality  in  cancer  patients 
who were administered epoetin alfa (Leyland-Jones B, 2003) or epoetin beta (Henke M et al, 2003) 
respectively,  the  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  (PhVWP)  looked  at  the  risk  of  tumour  growth 
progression  and  thromboembolism  in  patients  with  cancer  treated  with  epoetins.  Further  to  the 
recommendations  of  the  PhVWP  the  CHMP  requested  further  advice  from  the  Scientific  Advisory 
Group  for Oncology. As a  result, relevant parts of  sections 4.1,  4.2, 4.4  and 5.1 of the SPC for  the 
different  epoetins  centrally  authorised  in  the  treatment  of  anaemic  cancer  patients  receiving 
chemotherapy were amended as detailed below. 
The  baseline,  target  and  maximum  corrected  Hb  values  and  the  dose  monitoring  were  revised  in 
section 4.2 as follows: 
“NeoRecormon treatment is indicated if the haemoglobin value is < 13 g/dl (8.07 mmol/l) < 11 g/dl 
(6.83 mmol/l) at the start of chemotherapy. The recommended initial dose is 450 IU/kg body weight 
per week… 
Haemoglobin level should not exceed 13 g/dl (8.07 mmol/l) (see section 5.1)…. 
Once  the  therapeutic  objective  for  an  individual  patient  has  been  achieved,  the  dose  should  be 
reduced  by  25  to  50%  in  order  to  maintain  haemoglobin  at  that  level.  If  required,  further  dose 
reduction may be instituted to ensure that haemoglobin level does not exceed 13 g/dl. 
If the rise in haemoglobin is greater than 2 g/dl (1.3 mmol/l) in 4 weeks, the dose should be reduced 
by 25 to 50%.” 
The following warning on the effect of epoetin on tumour growth was added to section 4.4: 
“Effect on tumour growth 
Epoetins  are  growth  factors  that  primarily  stimulate  red  blood  cell  production.  Erythropoietin 
receptors may be  expressed  on the surface of a variety  of tumour  cells. As  with  all  growth  factors, 
there is a concern that epoetins could stimulate the growth of any type of malignancy. Two controlled 
clinical studies in which epoetins were administered to patients with various cancers including head 
and neck cancer, and breast cancer, have shown an unexplained excess mortality. 
Platelet  counts  and  haemoglobin  level  should  also  be  monitored  at  regular  intervals  in  cancer 
patients.” 
The  CHMP  also  requested  that  the  results  from  available  studies  on  survival  and  progression-free 
survival in which epoetins were administered to patients with various cancers are reflected in section 
5.1 as follows: 
“Neither preclinical nor clinical investigations have shown any influence of epoetin beta on tumour 
progression… 
Erythropoietin  is  a  growth  factor  that  primarily  stimulates  red  cell  production.  Erythropoietin 
receptors  may  be  expressed  on  the  surface  of  a  variety  of  tumour  cells.  There  is  insufficient 
information to establish whether the use of epoetin products have an adverse effect on time to tumour 
progression or progression free survival. 
Two  studies  explored  the  effect  of  epoetins  on  survival  and/or  tumour  progression  with  higher 
haemoglobin targets. 
In a randomised placebo-controlled study using epoetin alfa in 939 metastatic breast cancer patients, 
study drug was administered to attempt to maintain haemoglobin levels between 12 and 14 g/dL. At 
four  months,  death  attributed  to  disease  progression  was  higher  (6 %  vs.  3 %)  in  women  receiving 
epoetin alfa. The overall mortality was significantly higher in the epoetin alfa arm. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  another  placebo-controlled  study  using  epoetin  beta  in  351  patients  with  head  and  neck  cancer, 
study drug was administered to maintain the haemoglobin levels of 14 g/dL in women and 15 g/dL in 
men.  Locoregional  progression  free  survival  was  significantly  shorter  in  patients  receiving  epoetin 
beta.  The  results  of  this  study  were  confounded  by  imbalances  between  the  treatment  groups, 
especially  with  regard  to  tumor  localization,  smoking  status  and  the  heterogeneity  of  the  study 
population. 
In addition, several other studies have shown a tendency to improved survival suggesting that epoetin 
has no negative effect on tumour progression.” 
As recommended by the CHMP, section 5.3 was also revised in line with 4.4 and 5.3 as follows: 
“Carcinogenicity 
No  effect  of  epoetin  beta  was  observed  on  the  proliferation  of  non-haematological  normal  or 
malignant cells in vitro or transplantable tumours in vivo. 
A  carcinogenicity  study  with  homologous  erythropoietin  in  mice  did  not  reveal  any  signs  of 
proliferative or tumourigenic potential”. 
Based on the analysis conducted, the CHMP recommended to remove the indication of prevention of 
anaemia  in  patients  with  solid  tumour.  The  CHMP  also  emphasised  during  the  procedure  that  the 
primary  objective  of  the  treatment  with  epoetins  of  cancer  patients  receiving  chemotherapy  was  to 
alleviate  anaemic  symptoms  rather  than  to  correct  Hb  levels  as  such  and  recommended  that  this  is 
clearly reflected in the indication. Finally, the CHMP agreed with the proposal of the MAH to further 
modify the cancer indication by removing the reference to platinum-based chemotherapy for patients 
with solid tumours. The indication in cancer patients was consequently amended as follows: 
“Prevention and tTreatment of symptomatic anaemia in adult patients with solid tumours and treated 
with platinum-based chemotherapy prone to induce anaemia (cisplatin: 75 mg/m2/cycle, carboplatin: 
350 mg/m2/cycle) receiving chemotherapy.” 
Treatment  of  symptomatic  anaemia  in  adult  patients  with  multiple  myeloma,  low  grade  non-
Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia,  who  have  a  relative  erythropoietin 
deficiency  and  are  receiving  anti-tumour  therapy.  Deficiency  is  defined  as  an  inappropriately  low 
serum erythropoietin level in relation to the degree of anaemia.” 
In  the  same  variation  procedure,  section  4.8  was  revised  in  order  to  update  the  incidence  of 
thromboembolic events in cancer patients treated with NeoRecormon and to remove the statement on 
the  uncertainty  of  the  causal  relationship  between  the  occurrence  of  thromboembolic  events  and 
Neorecormon. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
