25 March 2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sacubitril / valsartan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010438/202007 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01/08/2019 To: 31/07/2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sacubitril / valsartan, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Psychiatric disorders 
In view of available data on psychosis and psychotic disorders from the literature, spontaneous reports 
including in multiple cases a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge 
and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC Rapporteur considers a causal relationship 
between sacubitril/valsartan and hallucinations, sleep disorder and paranoia are at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur concluded that the product information of products containing 
sacubitril/valsartan should be amended accordingly. 
Update of section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC to add hallucinations, sleep disorder and paranoia with a 
frequency ‘rare’ for hallucinations and sleep disorder and frequency ‘very rare’ for paranoia. The 
package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Tablet splitting 
In view of available data on ‘tablet splitting’ from the literature and spontaneous reports including the 
following risk of dose modification (underdose/overdose), changes in pharmacokinetics and potentially 
gastrointestinal tract disturbances, the PRAC Rapporteur considers that the product information of 
products containing sacubitril/valsartan should be amended accordingly. 
Update of section 4.2 of the SmPC to add information on correct use of the medicine, with a 
recommendation not to split/cut/crush the tablet. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Lithium drug-drug interaction and toxicity 
In view of available data on lithium drug-drug interaction and toxicity from spontaneous reports 
including in one case a close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and in view of a plausible 
mechanism of action, the PRAC Rapporteur considers a causal relationship between sacubitril/valsartan 
and lithium drug-drug interaction and toxicity is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur 
concluded that the product information of products containing sacubitril/valsartan should be amended 
accordingly. 
Update of section 4.5 of the SmPC to amend the lithium drug-drug interaction and toxicity. No updates 
to the package leaflet are considered warranted. The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made 
by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sacubitril / valsartan the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sacubitril / valsartan is unchanged subject 
to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
