EMA/167604/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004711 
Nepexto (etanercept) 
An overview of Nepexto and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nepexto and what is it used for? 
Nepexto is an anti-inflammatory medicine for treating the following immune system diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints), used with another medicine, 
methotrexate, or alone;  
certain forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (diseases causing inflammation in the joints); 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin with inflammation of the joints); 
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis which is when there are clear signs of 
inflammation but X-ray does not show disease. 
Nepexto is mostly used in adults when their condition is severe, moderately severe, or getting worse, 
or when patients cannot use other treatments. For more information on the use of Nepexto in all 
conditions, including when it can be used in children, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Nepexto is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Nepexto is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Nepexto is Enbrel. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Nepexto contains the active substance etanercept. 
How is Nepexto used? 
Nepexto can only be obtained with a prescription and is available for injection under the skin. 
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor with experience in diagnosing and treating the 
conditions that Nepexto is used for; the patient or their carer can give the injection if they have been 
trained to do so.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
In adults, the usual recommended dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week. Treatment with 
50 mg twice a week can be used during the first 12 weeks of treatment for plaque psoriasis. In 
children, the dose will depend on body weight. Nepexto is not for use in children whose body weight 
means that they need doses other than 25 or 50 mg, since it is only available in these doses; an 
alternative product should be used in such children. 
For more information about using Nepexto, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nepexto work? 
The active substance in Nepexto, etanercept, is a protein that has been designed to block the activity 
of a substance called tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF). This substance is involved in causing 
inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that Nepexto is used to treat. By 
blocking TNF, etanercept reduces inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Nepexto have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Nepexto with Enbrel have shown that the active substance in Nepexto is 
highly similar to that in Enbrel in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Nepexto produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Enbrel. 
In addition, Nepexto was considered to be as effective as Enbrel in one main study involving 517 
patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. After treatment for 24 weeks, around 81% of 
patients treated with Nepexto had at least a 20% decrease in symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, 
compared with 87% of those treated with Enbrel. 
Because Nepexto is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of etanercept carried 
out with Enbrel do not all need to be repeated for Nepexto. 
What are the risks associated with Nepexto? 
The safety of Nepexto has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Enbrel. 
The most common side effects with etanercept (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
injection-site reactions (including bleeding, redness, itching, pain and swelling) and infections 
(including colds, and lung, bladder and skin infections). For the full list of side effects of Nepexto, see 
the package leaflet. 
Nepexto must not be started in patients with active infections or used in patients who have, or are at 
risk of, sepsis (when bacteria and toxins circulate in the blood and start to damage the organs). 
Patients developing a serious infection should stop Nepexto treatment. For the full list of restrictions, 
see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nepexto authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Nepexto has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Enbrel and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies have shown that the safety and 
effectiveness of Nepexto is equivalent to that of Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis.  
Nepexto (etanercept)  
EMA/167604/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Nepexto will behave in the same way as 
Enbrel in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Enbrel, the benefits of Nepexto outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nepexto? 
The company that markets Nepexto will provide educational material for doctors expected to prescribe 
the medicine, to help them teach patients how to use it correctly and remind them not to use the 
medicine in children and adolescents whose body weight is less than 62.5 kg. It will also provide a 
special alert card for patients so they can recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent 
attention from their doctor.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nepexto have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nepexto are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Nepexto are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nepexto 
Nepexto received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 May 2020. 
Further information on Nepexto can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nepexto.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2020. 
Nepexto (etanercept)  
EMA/167604/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
