EMA/455200/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004030 
Nerlynx (neratinib) 
An overview of Nerlynx and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nerlynx and what is it used for? 
Nerlynx is a breast cancer medicine used to reduce the risk of the disease coming back in patients with 
early breast cancer who have had surgery. It is given following treatment with trastuzumab (another 
medicine used for the same purpose).  
It is intended for use only in breast cancers that produce high levels of a protein called HER2, which 
helps cells to divide and grow (HER2-positive breast cancer), and that also have receptors (targets) for 
the female sex hormones (hormone-receptor positive breast cancer). 
How is Nerlynx used? 
Nerlynx treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in giving cancer 
medicines and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The medicine is available as tablets (40 mg). The recommended dose is 6 tablets (240 mg) once a day 
with food, preferably in the morning. Treatment should be started within a year of finishing treatment 
with trastuzumab, and is given for 1 year. The doctor may reduce the dose or stop treatment if a 
patient has severe side effects, including diarrhoea. The doctor may also modify the dose if Nerlynx is 
given with certain other medicines. Patients are given treatment to prevent diarrhoea when starting 
Nerlynx. 
For more information about using Nerlynx, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nerlynx work? 
The active substance in Nerlynx, neratinib, is a type of cancer medicine called a tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor. It attaches to the HER2 protein on the cancer cells, and so blocks its action. Because HER2 
helps cancer cells to grow and divide, blocking it helps to stop these cells growing and prevents the 
cancer from coming back. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Nerlynx have been shown in studies? 
Nerlynx has been shown to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at preventing the 
cancer from coming back in one main study involving 2,840 women with HER2-positive early breast 
cancer who had already received trastuzumab.  
Around 94% of the women given a year’s treatment with Nerlynx lived for 1 further year after stopping 
Nerlynx without their cancer coming back versus 92% of those given placebo. When only women with 
hormone-receptor positive cancer were considered, about 95% of those given Nerlynx lived another 
year without the cancer coming back versus 91% of those given placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Nerlynx? 
The most common side effect with Nerlynx is diarrhoea, which affects nearly all patients. Other 
common side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, 
tiredness, belly pain, rash, decreased appetite, stomatitis (sore, inflamed mouth), and muscle spasms. 
The most common serious side effects are diarrhoea and vomiting. For the full list of side effects of 
Nerlynx, see the package leaflet. 
Nerlynx must not be used in patients with severely reduced liver function. It must also not be used 
with certain medicines that affect the way Nerlynx is broken down in the body. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nerlynx authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that Nerlynx had been shown to be of benefit in women 
with HER2-positive early breast cancer, and that this benefit seemed to be mainly in women with 
hormone-receptor positive disease.  
Although the side effects, particularly diarrhoea, can be severe and lead to treatment being stopped, 
there would be patients with HER2-positive, hormone-receptor positive early breast cancer for whom 
treatment with Nerlynx after surgery and trastuzumab would be a reasonable option. The Agency 
therefore decided that Nerlynx’s benefits are greater than its risks in this group and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nerlynx? 
The company that markets Nerlynx will provide a guide for healthcare professionals who prescribe or 
dispense the medicine, and educational material for patients and carers. These materials will explain 
the effects of Nerlynx on the gut, such as diarrhoea, and how to manage them, and will give advice on 
the need for patients to tell their healthcare professionals of side effects. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nerlynx have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nerlynx are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Nerlynx are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Nerlynx 
Nerlynx received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 August 2018. 
Nerlynx (neratinib)  
EMA/455200/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Nerlynx can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Nerlynx (neratinib)  
EMA/455200/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
