Summary of risk management plan for Nerlynx 
(neratinib) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Nerlynx. The RMP details important risks 
of  Nerlynx,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Nerlynx’s risks. 
Nerlynx's  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to HCPs and patients on how Nerlynx should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Nerlynx should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Nerlynx's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Nerlynx  is authorised  as a single agent is indicated for the extended adjuvant treatment of adult 
patients  with  early-stage  HR+  HER2-overexpressed/amplified  BC  who  completed  adjuvant 
trastuzumab-based therapy  less than one year ago. It  contains  neratinib  as the  active substance 
and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Nerlynx’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Nerlynx’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nerlynx 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Nerlynx, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Nerlynx's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the  PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
• 
• 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Nerlynx, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures 
mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these  measures, information about  adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks 
Important  risks  of  Nerlynx  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Nerlynx. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. 
Table II.A.1:  List of important risks 
Important identified 
risks 
•  Gastrointestinal toxicity - Diarrhoea  
•  Hepatotoxicity 
Important potential 
risks 
•  Cardiotoxicity - LVEF decreased 
• 
•  Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Pulmonary toxicity - Interstitial lung disease 
Abbreviations: LVEF = left ventricular ejection fraction. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Table II.B.2: Important risks 
Important identified risk: Gastrointestinal toxicity - Diarrhoea 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Non-clinical,  clinical,  and  post-authorisation  experience  with 
the medicine 
neratinib treatment. 
Neratinib inhibits kinase activity through intracellular irreversible 
binding  to  a  cysteine  residue in  the  ATP  binding  pocket  of  the 
receptor  and  therefore  can  contribute  to  alterations  in  the 
growth and healing of the intestinal epithelium, as described in 
the potential mechanisms, causing diarrhoea. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
For  diarrhoea  in  general,  groups  at  risk  include  patients  with 
significant chronic active inflammatory bowel disease or recent 
acute  GI  disorder  with  diarrhoea  as  a  major  symptom 
(e.g., Crohn’s  disease,  ulcerative  colitis,  malabsorption,  or 
grade ≥2  diarrhoea  of  any  aetiology  prior  to  treatment). 
Aggravating  risk  factors  include  concomitant  medications  and 
other predisposing conditions including advanced age. 
 
Table II.B.2: Important risks 
For  diarrhoea  during  treatment  with  TKIs,  a  small  number  of 
emerging  clinical  investigations  have  found  an  association 
between  drug  steady-state  concentrations  and  diarrhoea, 
suggesting  that  gene  variants  within  metabolic  pathways  for 
TKIs could play a role in toxicity susceptibility (Bowen, 2013). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL sections 2, 3, and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Provide patients and HPCs with educational material as 
additional resources to minimise diarrhoea. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
PUMA-NER-6201 (CONTROL) – completed study. An open-label 
activities 
study to characterize the incidence and severity of diarrhoea in 
patients with early-stage HER2+ BC treated with neratinib and 
loperamide. 
Study  PUMA-NER-6202  (DIANER)  is  being planned  to evaluate 
the incidence of discontinuations due to diarrhoea at three cycles 
in  patients  with  early-stage  HER2-positive,  hormone-receptor-
positive  BC  treated  with  neratinib  plus  loperamide  prophylaxis 
versus  neratinib  with  initial  dose  escalation  plus  as-needed 
loperamide  versus  neratinib  plus  loperamide  plus  colesevelam 
prophylaxis. 
An  observational  ongoing  study,  NER-7402  (Nerlyfe),  aims  to 
describe the incidence of discontinuation due to diarrhoea within 
the  first  3  months  of  treatment  with  neratinib,  in  adult  BC 
patients  treated  in  extended  adjuvant  in  a  real-world  setting, 
and 
to  evaluate 
the  availability, 
interpretability,  and 
effectiveness  of  Nerlynx  EMs.  The  study  will  also  evaluate  the 
use  of antidiarrhoeal medication among new  users  of  Nerlynx, 
assess the effectiveness of Nerlynx therapy on QoL, and further 
assess and characterize events of hepatotoxicity, cardiotoxicity 
(LVEF  decreased),  pulmonary  toxicity  (ILD),  reproductive  and 
developmental toxicity. 
See  Part  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Clinical,  and  post-authorisation  experience  with  neratinib 
the medicine 
treatment. 
Neratinib is an orally available, irreversible inhibitor of the EGFR, 
ERBB2, and ERBB4 receptors at the intracellular tyrosine kinase 
domains, and as such, a rigorous evaluation of TEAEs indicative 
Table II.B.2: Important risks 
of hepatic injury and laboratory evaluations of liver function for 
potential DILI due to a potential class effect was conducted. 
Nonclinical  studies  with  neratinib  did  not  show  significant 
hepatotoxicity. Minimal vacuolation was noted primarily in rats 
on biliary epithelial cells and was considered on-target and non-
adverse.  Slight  increases  in  ALT  and  AST,  and  slight  to  mild 
reversible hepatic inflammation and/or necrosis were observed 
at high doses in dose range-finding studies. 
Due to the potential for a drug class effect of hepatotoxicity and 
as a precaution typically applied to clinical studies of an agent 
that  has  not  been  widely  administered  in  the  clinical  setting, 
eligibility  criteria  for  all  neratinib  trials  in  this  data  discussion 
excluded  patients  with  baseline  moderate  hepatic  dysfunction 
and in applicable trials, extensive hepatic metastases (more than 
one-third of the liver). 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk 
factors 
for  DILI 
include 
increasing  age,  human 
immunodeficiency  virus  /acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome 
infection  and  antiretroviral  drug  use,  chronic  hepatitis  B  or  C 
infection, obesity, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Patients 
taking  anti-infectives,  psychotropics,  lipid-lowering  agents, 
herbal 
and 
dietary 
supplements, 
and 
nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs are also at risk (Bell et al, 2009). 
Severe toxic effects can be increased when TKIs are taken with 
a CYP3A4 inhibitor (Spraggs et al, 2013; Shah et al, 2013). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.3 
SmPC Section 4.4. 
SmPC Section 4.8. 
PL Section 2 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Important potential risk: Cardiotoxicity - LVEF decreased 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
While  nonclinical  and  clinical  studies  did  not  indicate  a 
the medicine 
cardiotoxic  effect  from  neratinib,  decreases  in  LVEF  were 
identified  for  similar  compounds.  Other  agents  in  the  same 
pharmacological class of TKIs that target ERBB2, have a cardiac 
toxicity  profile  reported  in  the  product  labelling.  Cardiotoxicity 
(LVEF decreased) is considered as class effect. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Cardiovascular side effects of TKIs are varied and have included 
heart 
failure, 
left  ventricular  dysfunction, 
conduction 
abnormalities,  QT  prolongation,  acute  coronary  syndromes, 
myocardial  injury,  arterial  thromboses,  and  hypertension. 
Overall, systolic dysfunction with resultant heart failure is one of 
 
the most common important side effects of TKI treatment (Chen 
et al, 2008). 
According  to  the  American  College  of  Cardiology  and  the 
American Heart Association, patients at high risk for developing 
heart  failure  are  those  with  hypertension,  coronary  artery 
disease, diabetes mellitus, family history of cardiomyopathy, use 
of  cardiotoxins,  and  obesity,  who  have  no  structural  heart 
disease at present. Patients with asymptomatic heart failure but 
with structural heart disease (previous myocardial infarction, left 
ventricular  remodelling  including  left  ventricular  hypertrophy 
and low ejection fraction, or asymptomatic valvular disease) are 
at  risk  of  further  left  ventricular  remodelling  leading  to 
development of heart failure symptoms. 
Treatment  with  anthracycline  chemotherapy  has  been 
associated with a cumulative dose-dependent decrease in LVEF, 
which  were  asymptomatic  for  the  most  part.  This  progressive 
cardiotoxicity  usually  occurs  after  the  completion  of  treatment 
with anthracyclines and may become apparent within one year 
of 
the  completion  of 
treatment  (early  onset  chronic 
cardiotoxicity)  or  many  years  after  chemotherapy  has  been 
completed (late onset chronic cardiotoxicity). Other risk factors 
have 
been 
identified 
that 
increase 
the 
risk 
of 
anthracycline-induced  cardiotoxicity,  such  as  concomitant 
treatment  with  cyclophosphamide,  trastuzumab,  or  paclitaxel. 
The  interaction  between  anthracyclines,  such  as  doxorubicin, 
and  trastuzumab,  is  of  particular  interest,  given  the  relatively 
common  use  of  the  latter  agent  for  adjuvant  therapy  for  BC 
(Volkova and Russell, 2011). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: none 
Important potential risk: Pulmonary toxicity- Interstitial lung disease 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Pulmonary  toxicity,  including  pneumonitis,  interstitial  lung 
the medicine 
disease (ILD), and pulmonary fibrosis, is a known side effect of 
TKIs that target EGFR (Liu et al, 2007). TKI-associated toxicity 
generally occurs early after initiation of therapy; in 75% of cases 
of  TKI-associated  pulmonary  toxicity,  the  complications  occur 
within 3 months of initiation of drug use and the majority occurs 
within 4 weeks (Min et al, 2011). 
In  preclinical  studies  of  neratinib,  no  pulmonary  toxicity  was 
observed. 
Pulmonary toxicity, incl. ILD is considered as a class effect. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
As  in  cases  associated  with  conventional  antineoplastic  drugs, 
pre-existing  pulmonary  fibrosis  has  been  regarded  as  a  risk 
 
factor for the development of ILD in targeted therapy. Other risk 
factors include male sex, a history of smoking, poor functional 
status, concomitant radiation therapy, absence of chemotherapy 
history, and a reduction in serum albumins (Min et al, 2011). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: none 
Additional risk minimisation measures: none 
Important potential risk: Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Non-clinical experience. 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Unknown 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.6 
SmPC Section 5.3 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Abbreviations:  AE  =  adverse  event;  ALP  =  alkaline  phosphatase  ALT  =  alanine  aminotransferase;  AST  = 
aspartate aminotransferase; (AT) = aminotransferase; BC = breast cancer; CT = computerised tomography; 
DILI = drug-induced liver injury; ECHO = echocardiogram; GI = gastrointestinal; HCO = health care provider; 
HER2  =  human  epidermal growth  factor  receptor  2;  ILD  =  interstitial  lung  disease;  L+C  =  lapatinib  plus 
capecitabine;  LVEF  =left  ventricular  ejection  fraction;  MUGA  =  multigated  acquisition  scan;  PL  =Package 
leaflet;  QoL  =  quality  of  life;  SAE  =  serious  adverse  event;  SmPC  =  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics; 
TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event; TKI = tyrosine kinase inhibitor; ULN = upper limit of normal. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no post-authorisation safety trial category 1 or 2 or efficacy studies planned. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study  PUMA-NER-6201  (CONTROL)  was  conducted  to  characterize  the  incidence  and  severity  of 
diarrhoea  in  patients  with  early-stage  HER2+  BC  treated  with  neratinib  when  administered  with 
intensive loperamide prophylaxis, after prior treatment with trastuzumab. This study is completed. 
Study PUMA-NER-6202 (DIANER) aims to evaluate the incidence of discontinuations due to diarrhoea 
at  three  cycles  in  patients  with  early-stage  HER2-positive,  hormone-receptor-positive  BC  treated 
with  neratinib  plus  loperamide  prophylaxis  versus  neratinib  with  initial  dose  escalation  plus  as-
needed  loperamide  versus  neratinib  plus  loperamide  plus  colesevelam  prophylaxis.  This  study  is 
planned. 
An observational ongoing trial (NER-7402) aims to describe the incidence of discontinuation due to 
diarrhoea within the first three months of treatment with neratinib, in adult BC patients treated in 
extended  adjuvant  in  a  real-world  setting,  and  to  evaluate  the  availability,  interpretability,  and 
effectiveness of Nerlynx EMs. The trial will also evaluate the use of antidiarrhoeal medication among 
new users of Nerlynx, to assess the effectiveness of Nerlynx therapy on QoL. 
 
