SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Neulasta. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 February 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Neulasta is a solution for injection containing pegfilgrastim. Pegfilgrastim, is a covalent conjugate of 
recombinant human Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (r-met-HuG-CSF, filgrastim) with a 
single 20 kDa polyethylene glycol (PEG). Filgrastim is produced by recombinant-DNA technology in 
E. coli.  
Pegfilgrastim and filgrastim belong to the class of haematopoietic growth factors (granulocyte-colony 
stimulating factor; G-CSF). Pegfilgrastim is a sustained duration form of filgrastim, due to decreased 
renal clearance. Pegfilgrastim and filgrastim have been shown to have identical modes of actions, 
causing a marked increase in peripheral blood neutrophil counts within 24 hours, with minor increases 
in monocytes and/or lymphocytes.  
The indication for Neulasta is the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of 
chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes). 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The medicinal product is a ready-to-use solution for injection, filled in 1 ml borosilicate type I glass 
pre-filled syringes. Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.6 ml (deliverable volume) solution for injection 
containing  6mg  pegfilgrastim  (protein  content).  The  formulation  of  pegfilgrastim  contains  sorbitol, 
polysorbate 20, acetate, sodium and water for injections. The pH, excipients and their concentrations 
were selected to minimise degradation during storage. 
Active substance 
Pegfilgrastim (active substance) is manufactured by attaching a 20 kDa methoxy-polyethylene glycol-
propionaldehyde (PEG-aldehyde) to the N-terminal amino acid of filgrastim (175 amino acids). 
Filgrastim is a non-glycosylated protein with a methionine group attached to the human amino acid 
sequence and is manufactured in E. coli cells by an approved process. Pegfilgrastim has a relative 
molecular mass of approximately 39 kDa.  Pegfilgrastim is manufactured at Amgen Inc., Thousand 
Oaks, California, USA. 
The development genetics, cell bank system, fermentation and purification steps for the production of 
filgrastim were provided in the dossier.  
Characterisation of Pegfilgrastim 
Pegfilgrastim  has  been  characterised  using  physico-chemical  and  biologic  assays.  The  primary, 
secondary and tertiary structures of filgrastim and pegfilgrastim have been extensively characterised in 
the  dossier.  The  biological  activity  of  pegfilgrastim  has  also  been  characterised  and  compared  to 
filgrastim. A full description of the pegylation reaction and its controls was provided.  
1/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purification of Pegfilgrastim 
Following pegylation, purification is carried out using cation exchange chromatography to result in 
purified bulk product (pegfilgrastim). The active substance is stored in sterile polypropylene 
containers at 2 – 8 °C and shipped at a temperature of 2 – 8 °C to Amgen Manufacturing Ltd., Puerto 
Rico.  
Analytical development 
Appropriate specifications have been set for the analysis of the active substance at release and end of 
shelf life. Methods used for release testing have been described and validated.  
Other Ingredients 
All excipients used comply with the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia, Annex I (Part 2, 
paragraph D) to Directive 2001/83/EC and the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of 
transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products (EMEA/410/01 rev. 1). 
The syringe components consist of a type I borosilicate glass barrel with integral needle, plunger 
stopper, plunger rod and needle shield. 
Product development and finished product 
Manufacture of the finished product 
The final product is manufactured at Amgen Manufacturing Ltd., Puerto Rico and consists of aseptic 
formulation and filling into syringes. The final product contains a protein concentration of 10 mg/ml 
(protein mass only). Packaging, labelling and final release is performed by Amgen Europe B.V., 
Breda, The Netherlands.  
The manufacturing process for the final product has been validated and is controlled by in-process 
controls and product release specifications. The quality of the final product is ensured by analysis of 
the product by a combination of physico-chemical and biological methods. Methods used for the 
specification testing have been described and validated.  
Stability of the Finished Product 
Based on the stability data provided for storage of the finished product at 2 – 8 °C, a shelf life as 
indicated in the SPC is acceptable. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Filgrastim is a recombinant version of human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (r-met-huG-CSF).  
This cytokine preferentially stimulates the production of mature and functionally active neutrophils 
from bone marrow precursor cells, both in-vitro and in-vivo.  Therapeutic applications relate to the 
treatment of diseases or conditions with haemopoietic failure or impaired blood cell function.  The 
action of huG-CSF is not species restricted as demonstrated by binding of iodinated huG-CSF to 
relevant tissues and in-vivo stimulation of granulocyte production (elevated myeloid-erythroid ratio) 
in a number of laboratory animal species, accompanied by histological evidence of increased 
granulocytopoiesis or granulocytic hypercellularity.  Sequence homologies between human/murine 
and human/canine G-CSF have been reported as ca 73 and 83% respectively. 
Following long-term administration in rats and monkeys, there was no evidence of progenitor cell 
depletion.  The population size of erythroblasts seems to remain essentially unchanged – there is a 
shift in the proportions of myeloid and erythroid cells.  Extramedullary granulocytopoiesis and 
erythropoiesis occurred following high repeat doses of filgrastim in rats, monkeys and dogs, especially 
in the spleen and liver.  In treated animals there was no sign of lineage competition, i.e. neutrophilia 
did not occur at the expense of other cell lines, apart from slight reversible decreases in erythrocytes 
and platelets (possibly caused by increased phagocytosis following stimulation of the mononuclear 
phagocyte system). 
2/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Pegfilgrastim has been subjected to preclinical studies, which are valid both on a stand-alone basis and 
also as a “bridge” to the non-pegylated product filgrastim.  All safety studies were undertaken in 
accordance with GLP. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacological effects of pegfilgrastim have been investigated in in-vitro and in-vivo models 
using filgrastim as a comparator. 
Pegfilgrastim has been shown to have the same granulopoietic properties as filgrastim in-vitro and in a 
variety of animal species, with the advantage of a prolonged duration of action after a single dose.  
The oxidative burst, phagocytic and bactericidal activities of the neutrophils produced following 
administration appear to have normal functionality. 
In-vitro studies  
• 
As pegfilgrastim cannot be directly radio-iodinated, indirect means were used to show that its affinity 
for the G-CSF receptor is only marginally lower than that of the parent protein.  In support of this 
observation, the ability of pegfilgrastim to stimulate mature neutrophil functions (oxidative burst, 
phagocytosis, chemotaxis etc.) was comparable to filgrastim.  In addition, the clearance of both 
materials was found to be via similar receptor-mediated and non-specific mechanisms. 
In-vivo studies  
• 
In the mouse a single subcutaneous (sc) dose of filgrastim (200-1000 µg/kg ) produced a doubling of 
neutrophil count irrespective of dose, whereas pegfilgrastim (50-500 µg/kg sc) produced a sustained 
dose-related increase in blood neutrophils.   
The white-cell response to pegfilgrastim is neutrophilic, though lymphocytes and monocytes are also 
increased.  The overall response at high doses is characterised by reduced red cell parameters and a 
lower platelet count.  Pegfilgrastim was effective in restoring neutrophil counts in several mouse 
chemotherapy models and in a monkey model of myeloablation.  However, an apparent adverse 
interaction with 5-FU and a tight window of pre-treatment, in the mouse led to reduced survival 
compared with controls, and in the monkey filgrastim was ineffective and pegfilgrastim only 
marginally effective.  It is proposed that accelerated mitotic activity at the time 5-FU is administered 
may result in enhanced destruction of neutrophils and/or progenitor cells. This is described in the 
product information. A detailed comparison of filgrastim and pegfilgrastim in mice indicated that the 
neutrophil kinetics were stimulated in the same way for both drugs. 
The time course of mobilisation of haematopoietic progenitor cells in splenectomised mice was similar 
with a single sc injection of pegfilgrastim and repeated daily sc injections of filgrastim over 7 days.  
Lethally irradiated mice given donor blood from donor mice treated with filgrastim or pegfilgrastim 
were protected to a similar extent by the two regimens. 
The kinetics of neutrophil production by pegfilgrastim and filgrastim have been evaluated in mice 
(Clinical Cancer Research, 2085, July 2001) and found to be similar in both normal and 
chemotherapy-treated animals.   The half-life of peripheral neutrophils was unchanged from normal, 
and mitotic amplification factors (3-3.9 extra cell divisions) were comparable for both pegfilgrastim 
and filgrastim. 
The dog has been shown previously to produce neutralising antibodies when given repeat doses of 
filgrastim, which eventually leads to a neutropenic response.  Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) 
profiles were determined in an 11-week study in one dog given filgrastim (10 µg/kg five times per 
week) and 2 dogs given pegfilgrastim (100 µg/kg/week once weekly).  Neutrophilia was apparent over 
the first 4-5 weeks of treatment, more marked with pegfilgrastim.  ANCs declined thereafter to below 
baseline levels after 6 weeks in the filgrastim-treated dog and in one of the pegfilgrastim-treated dogs.  
In the other pegfilgrastim-treated dog, ANCs declined only to baseline.  The results suggest that 
neutralising antibody development in the dog is similar for both drugs, leading eventually to cross 
reaction with canine G-CSF. Similar studies in a limited number of chimpanzees failed to elicit an 
antibody response. 
3/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies have been undertaken in the mouse, rat, rhesus and cynomolgus monkey using sc and/or iv 
administration.  Single-dose kinetic studies in mice, rats, rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys all showed 
a sustained dose-related increase in blood neutrophils. Repeat-dose studies were generally 
characterised by a diminished AUC response at later timepoints – explained by the increase in 
receptor-mediated clearance of pegfilgrastim due to the presence of the increasing mass of circulating 
myeloid cells.  
In nephrectomised rats, clearance of filgrastim was 25-40% of that in normal animals indicating a 
significant contribution of renal excretion to its elimination.  In contrast, clearance of pegfilgrastim 
was reduced by ca 20%, albeit not significantly, in nephrectomised rats compared with normal 
animals, supporting that renal clearance plays an insignificant role in the elimination of pegfilgrastim. 
Antibodies to pegfilgrastim were detected only at low incidence in the rat, but at higher levels in the 
monkey.  Antibody titres were low and antibody-mediated clearance appeared to be insignificant 
compared with neutrophil receptor-mediated clearance.  
Toxicology 
Single and repeat dose toxicity  
A full set of conventional toxicity tests were performed for pegfilgrastim. Single and repeat dose 
toxicity tests were conducted in rats and monkeys. 
In a single dose toxicity study, pegfilgrastim was generally well-tolerated and caused expected 
pharmacological effects when given as iv bolus doses of 100-10,000 µg/kg to male and female rats. No 
mortalities occurred in the two weeks following treatment.   
In repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats (weekly dosing for up to 6 months) and cynomolgus monkeys 
(weekly dosing for 4 weeks) pegfilgrastim produced a range of changes that reflected an exaggerated 
pharmacological response, or a reaction to the primary response (myeloid hyperplasia in bone 
marrow), such as extramedullary haematopoiesis in the spleen and liver.  Animal:human systemic 
exposure ratios in terms of relative AUCs were up to 7.5 at 6 months in the rat and 3.5 in the monkey 
at 3 weeks.  All of the treatment-related changes were reversible in both species. 
Toxicokinetic investigations formed part of the repeat-dose studies.  In the two-week rat study where 
pegfilgrastim was given sc every other day, plasma concentrations progressively declined.  This 
finding is consistent with an increase in receptor-mediated clearance secondary to the expansion of 
neutrophil and neutrophil precursor mass after multiple dosing.   
Mutagenicity  
Given the chemical structure and bioreactivity of pegfilgrastim it was considered inappropriate to 
undertake genetic toxicity studies, which is consistent with ICH Guidelines on products of 
biotechnological origin. 
Carcinogenicity  
No experimental evaluation of carcinogenic potential has been undertaken and was appropriately 
justified.  Pegfilgrastim is most unlikely to be carcinogenic in view of: 
The limited distribution of cells with appropriate receptors  
- 
Its cell type-specific mitogenic effects 
- 
Its limited duration of therapy 
- 
Data from transgenic models of overexpression of G-CSF 
- 
Clinical experience with filgrastim. 
- 
Reproductive Toxicity 
The programme of reproductive toxicity tests using sc administration included a joint male/female 
fertility test and conventional segment II/III tests for embryo-foetal development and peri-/post-natal 
development. 
4/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
Reproductive toxicity studies on pegfilgrastim indicated that the drug is unlikely to impair male or 
female fertility, not expected to be teratogenic or to affect pup development.  In the rat embryo-foetal 
study, the only minor treatment-related foetal abnormality was wavy ribs. Placental transfer of 
pegfilgrastim in the pregnant rat was extremely low, systemic exposure of the foetus being < 0.5% of 
that in the mother. The pregnant rabbit exhibited marked reductions in maternal growth rate and a high 
incidence of abortions and resorptions at higher doses. The high susceptibility of the rabbit in terms of 
foetal loss relative to that in man is unknown and so use of pegfilgrastim in pregnancy should be 
discouraged. 
Immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity was determined in pharmacodynamic and repeat toxicity studies as well as in clinical 
studies.  
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment 
Pegfilgrastim is unlikely to be of environmental concern given the low projected supply (< 3 
kg/annum in the EU), the need for metabolic breakdown before excretion in patients and the predicted 
rapid biodegradation in the environment. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The application for pegfilgrastim was based on the results of six clinical studies (2 pivotal phase III 
studies and 4 supportive phase II studies) and two studies in healthy volunteers. Out of a total of 904 
subjects that were enrolled into these studies, 882 received study medication (540 received 
pegfilgrastim and 342 received filgrastim). The individual studies were designed with reference to 
regulatory guidance notes and the CPMP Scientific Advice. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics were assessed together in the dossier. 
Studies in healthy volunteers 
Two studies in healthy volunteers were carried out, in which pharmacokinetics after subcutaneous (sc) 
administration of pegfilgrastim were evaluated.  Study 970230, entitled “A Phase 1 Study of 
pegfilgrastim in Normal Volunteers”, was a sequential dose escalation design evaluating pegfilgrastim 
doses of 30, 60, 100, or 300 µg/kg given sc to healthy volunteers.  Pharmacokinetics, peripheral ANC 
profiles, and CD34+ cell mobilization were studied.  Thirty-two subjects were enrolled.  Study 980230, 
entitled “A Study Comparing Subcutaneous and Intravenous Administration of pegfilgrastim or Daily 
Subcutaneous Filgrastim in Healthy Volunteers”, compared pegfilgrastim doses of 30 and 60 µg/kg 
given intravenously (iv) or sc with daily filgrastim given sc with respect to pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics, and neutrophil function in 41 healthy subjects. 
After single sc dosing of pegfilgrastim over the dose range of 30 – 300 µg/kg, Cmax and AUC increased 
non-linear with dose, while CL/F decreased at higher doses.  
Peak plasma concentrations of pegfilgrastim occurred at 16 to 120 hours after dosing and serum 
concentrations are maintained during the period of neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. 
The studies demonstrated that the pharmacodynamic effects of pegfilgrastim were similar to those of 
filgrastim, namely elevation of Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) by release of mature neutrophils 
from the marrow into the peripheral blood and by stimulation of proliferation and differentiation of 
neutrophil precursors in the bone marrow, and mobilisation of progenitor (CD34+) cells to the 
peripheral blood.  
5/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and excretion 
Filgrastim is cleared from the circulation by a combination of renal and neutrophil-mediated clearance 
(neutrophils and their precursors in the bone marrow).  Pegfilgrastim has a sustained-duration effect 
relative to filgrastim as a result of decreased renal clearance, resulting in clearance almost exclusively 
by neutrophils.   
Both pre-clinically and clinically, the observed pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim are consistent with a 
predominantly neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism.  After subcutaneous administration, the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim in healthy volunteers and cancer patients were nonlinear at the dose 
range of 30 to 300 µg/kg.  The rate of serum clearance of pegfilgrastim decreased with increasing 
dose, which is attributed to saturation of the neutrophil-mediated clearance pathway and is best 
described by a Michaelis-Menten process, with the capacity-limited process attributed to neutrophil-
mediated clearance.  There was a direct relationship between dose of pegfilgrastim and serum 
concentration, ANC peak levels, time to ANC peak levels, and the duration of ANC elevation over 
baseline.  Median terminal half-life values were independent of dose and ranged from 46 to 62 hours 
compared with approximately 3.5 hours for filgrastim. 
Studies in patients 
Study 970144 
In this Phase I/II study the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim and filgrastim were evaluated in patients 
with non-small-cell lung cancer or other thoracic tumours treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel. A 
single sc dose of pegfilgrastim was compared to multiple daily sc doses of filgrastim. The study design 
consisted of 2 parts: 
a. 
b. 
single SC injection of pegfilgrastim or multiple sc dose of filgrastim (o.d. for 5 days) 
starting 15 days after the start of part A; single sc injection of pegfilgrastim or multiple sc dose 
filgrastim (o.d. for 5 days), 24 hours after completing chemotherapy. 
Plasma concentration of filgrastim, the non-pegylated form, declined rapidly after sc dosing, with an 
elimination half-life of ca. 3 – 4 hours, which is much shorter than for pegfilgrastim (ca. 50 hours). 
Patients had comparable pegfilgrastim pharmacokinetics. After chemotherapy, Cmax values were 
comparable to those observed before chemotherapy, however, a prolonged plateau in plasma 
pegfilgrastim concentrations was observed. Plasma concentrations declined when neutrophil recovery 
commenced. Clearance was lower after chemotherapy, due to neutropenia. Pegfilgrastim is mainly 
cleared by receptor-mediated endocytosis (neutrophil-mediated clearance), explaining the lower 
clearance after chemotherapy due to neutropenia. Pharmacodynamics are thus influencing the 
pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim. 
In line with pegfilgrastim, after chemotherapy, Cmax values of filgrastim were comparable to those 
observed before chemotherapy. Comparison of pegfilgrastim with filgrastim indicates that 
pegfilgrastim is clearly eliminated more slowly, before and after chemotherapy. However, the effect of 
chemotherapy on clearance of pegfilgrastim was not observed for filgrastim. As filgrastim is mainly 
cleared by glomerular filtration, the effect of neutropenia is less on clearance of filgrastim.   
Study 980147 
In this Phase II study subjects with high risk stage II or stage III/IV breast cancer were included. On 
day 1 of each chemotherapy cycle, subjects received an intravenous bolus dose of 60 mg/m2 
doxorubicin followed 1 hour later by an 1-hour infusion of 75 mg/m2 docetaxel. The treatment was 
repeated every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles. On day 2 of each cycle, subjects received daily sc doses of 
filgrastim (5 µg/kg) for up to 14 days (depending on ANC) or a single sc dose of pegfilgrastim (30, 60 
or 100 µg/kg).  
After a single sc dose the peak serum concentration of pegfilgrastim occurs at 8 to 120 hours after 
dosing and serum concentrations of pegfilgrastim are maintained during the period of neutropenia 
after myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Consistent with a self-regulating clearance mechanism, the 
serum concentration of pegfilgrastim declined rapidly at the onset of neutrophil recovery. This 
observation was confirmed in other studies in cancer patients including the pivotal study using the 
fixed dose (6 mg) of pegfilgrastim – see figure 1. 
6/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with breast cancer, a strong linear relationship was observed between pegfilgrastim AUCinf 
during chemotherapy of cycle 1 and the pegfilgrastim plasma concentration at day 7. Plasma 
concentrations at day 7 can thus possibly be used for indication of the systemic exposure. 
Figure 1. Profile of Median Pegfilgrastim Serum Concentration and Absolute Neutrophil Count 
(ANC) in Chemotherapy Treated Patients After a Single 6 mg Injection 
)
l
/
m
g
n
(
.
c
n
o
C
m
i
t
s
a
r
g
l
i
f
g
e
P
m
u
r
e
S
n
a
d
e
M
i
Pegfilgrastim Conc.
ANC
1000
100
10
1
0.1
100
)
l
/
9
0
1
x
s
l
l
e
c
(
10
1
0.1
t
n
u
o
C
l
i
h
p
o
r
t
l
t
u
e
N
e
u
o
s
b
A
n
a
d
e
M
i
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
21
Study Day
Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment. Limited data indicate that the 
pharmacokinetics of Neulasta in elderly subjects (>65 years) is similar to that in adults. 
Pegfilgrastim is a protein, and therefore: 1) is not expected to bind to proteins, 2) it is expected that 
metabolic degradation will follow one of the pathways of other proteins, i.e. in this case receptor 
mediated endocytosis, and 3) is unlikely to be a candidate for drug-drug interactions. Therefore it is 
agreed that no in vitro interaction studies are carried out and no specific in vivo clinical drug 
interaction studies have been performed.  
Clinical efficacy 
Dose response study  
Study 980147 
This multicentre, randomised, dose-finding phase II study compared a single sc injection of 
pegfilgrastim (30, 60, or 100 µg/kg) per chemotherapy cycle to multiple daily sc injections of 
filgrastim 5 µg/kg/day for ANC support in patients with high-risk stage II or stage III/IV breast 
cancer. Patients were treated with 4 cycles of chemotherapy (repeated every 3 weeks) consisting of 
doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and docetaxel (75 mg/m2) administered on day 1. 
The primary endpoint was Duration of Severe Neutropenia (DSN) in cycle 1, secondary objectives 
were the assessment of DSN in cycles 2 through 4 and ANC profile, time to ANC recovery, and the 
safety profile in cycles 1 through 4. 
The study consisted of both double-blind (3 treatment groups) and open-label cohorts (4 treatment 
groups). Patients in the double-blind cohorts were randomised to receive either filgrastim 5 µg/kg/day 
or pegfilgrastim (60 or 100 µg/kg). Daily filgrastim started on day 2 and was administered until ANC 
reached 10 x 109/L post-nadir or up to 2 weeks, whichever came first. Pegfilgrastim was administered 
on day 2 followed by daily SC injections of placebo until ANC reached 10 x 109/L post-nadir or up to 
2 weeks, whichever came first. Subjects in the subsequent first open label cohort were randomised to 
receive either pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg or pegfilgrastim 30 µg/kg on day 2. The open label aspect was 
incorporated into the study design to provide adequate safety monitoring of subjects and to reduce 
subject exposure to any potential risks, when lower pegfilgrastim dose groups were added by 
7/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amendments to the protocol. Patients in the second open-label cohort were randomised to receive 
either pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg or pegfilgrastim 100 µg/kg on day 2.  
Based on the results of an interim analysis, suggesting that patients who received pegfilgrastim 30 
µg/kg had longer DSN compared to patients receiving higher doses, the pegfilgrastim 30 µg/kg dose 
was increased to 60 µg/kg as of the next chemotherapeutic cycle. In the final analysis, data from the 
double blind and open-label cohorts were pooled according to dose group, after determining (for cycle 
1) that no clinically meaningful differences were evident in the primary and secondary endpoints 
between the 2 cohorts at any dose level. 
One hundred and fifty-four patients were enrolled in this study, 25 of whom were randomised to 
receive filgrastim (5 µg/kg/day) and 129 to receive pegfilgrastim (n=19, n=62, and n=48 for the 30-, 
60-, and 100 µg/kg dose groups respectively).  
Baseline demographics and (medical) characteristics were similar between the treatment groups, 
except for the distribution of breast cancer stages. In the filgrastim group 24% of the patients had stage 
II disease and 76% stage III or IV. In the pegfilgrastim group these percentages were 39% and 61% 
respectively. However, the distribution of prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy exposure was similar 
across treatment groups. Most patients had not received either prior chemotherapy or previous 
radiotherapy. 
The incidence of severe neutropenia in the pegfilgrastim 30-, 60-, and 100 µg/kg dose groups was 
95%, 92%, and 78% in cycle 1 respectively, compared with 88% in the filgrastim (5 µg/kg/day) group. 
In cycle 1 the mean Duration of Severe Neutropenia (DSN) for the pegfilgrastim 30-, 60-, and 100 
µg/kg dose groups was 3.2, 2.2, and 1.5 days respectively, compared with 2.2 days in the filgrastim 
group. The one-sided upper 90% confidence limits for the difference in mean DSN between each 
pegfilgrastim dose group and filgrastim were 1.56, 0.43, and -0.29 days for the pegfilgrastim 30-, 60-, 
and 100 µg/kg dose groups, respectively. 
DSN ≥ 3 days in cycle 1 was experienced by 79%, 36.7%, and 15.2% of patients in the pegfilgrastim 
30-, 60-, and 100 µg/kg dose groups, respectively, compared to 28% of patients in the filgrastim group 
(5 µg/kg/day). Only the difference between the filgrastim and the pegfilgrastim 30 µg/kg group was 
statistically significant (p=0.002). 
The median time to ANC recovery of 9 days for the pegfilgrastim 100 µg/kg dose group was 1 day 
shorter than that of both the pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg and the filgrastim groups for every cycle. The 
longest median time to ANC recovery (12 days) was observed in the 30 µg/kg pegfilgrastim dose 
group in cycle 1. 
The subject incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN) over all cycles was 26%, 15%, and 11% for the 
pegfilgrastim 30-, 60-, and 100 µg/kg dose groups, respectively, compared to 16% in the filgrastim 
group. The supportive secondary analyses of all efficacy endpoints in the per-protocol (pP) analyses 
supported the findings in the intent-to-treat (ITT) analyses. 
The safety profiles of pegfilgrastim and filgrastim were comparable. Most AEs were considered not to 
be related to the study drug. The overall incidence of bone pain was 35% in pegfilgrastim subjects and 
36% in filgrastim subjects. A possible dose-response was noted for pegfilgrastim groups with 
increasing incidence of bone pain with increasing dose of pegfilgrastim. However, most cases of bone 
pain were mild to moderate in severity and required no medication or were controlled with non-
narcotic analgesia. Pegfilgrastim was observed to be safe and well tolerated.  
The study suggested that the 60- and 100 µg/kg doses of pegfilgrastim, unlike the 30 µg /kg dose, 
provided clinically adequate support relative to filgrastim. The sub-optimal efficacy of the 30 µg/kg 
dose was demonstrated further by data on the incidence of FN and the data from study 970144. Based 
on the assessment of all endpoints in study 980147, the pegfilgrastim 100 µg/kg dose provided a 
greater level of assurance of comparability to filgrastim than the 60 µg/kg dose. Therefore the 100 
µg/kg dose was chosen for the, by-weight dose, phase III trial 980226. 
8/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmatory efficacy studies  
• 
Description of the studies 
Both pivotal studies 990749 and 980226 were double blind studies that evaluated the comparability of 
a single administration of pegfilgrastim with multiple daily administrations of filgrastim. The patient 
population in both studies consisted of patients with high risk stage II or stage III/IV breast cancer, 
identical to the population in the phase II study 980147.  
In both studies patients were treated with 4 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin (60 
mg/m2) and docetaxel (75 mg/m2), identical to the chemotherapy applied in study 980147. Both phase 
III studies used non-inferiority designs and sample sizes were calculated accordingly with both studies 
adequately powered for efficacy. Pegfilgrastim was to be considered non-inferior to filgrastim if, in 
cycle 1, the upper limit of the 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean difference in DSN was 
less than 1 day. The primary analyses were cycle 1 pP analyses, including only patients who were 
randomised, who were exposed to the assigned study drug within a cycle, and who had no protocol 
deviations likely to interfere with the ability of the analysis to detect a difference. The analyses of 
DSN in each of cycles 2 through 4 (secondary endpoint) were performed similarly.  
In addition to the pP analyses of the endpoints, ITT analyses of all endpoints were performed as 
secondary analyses, with the aim of showing consistency of results. The ITT analyses included 
randomised patients who were exposed to the assigned study drug (and received the correct 
chemotherapy). 
In study 980226 patients were randomised 1:1 to one of 2 double-blind cohorts using a schedule 
stratified by centre and prior therapy. A total of 310 patients were enrolled in this study of whom 301 
received at least one dose of study drug. Patients were on study for at least 9 months, comprising 
approximately 3 months of active treatment and an additional 6 months for follow-up. 
In study 990749 patients were randomised 1:1 to one of 2 double-blind cohorts using a stratified 
randomisation with weight (<50 kg, ≥ 50 kg and < 80 kg, or ≥ 80 kg), prior chemotherapy exposure, 
and location. A total of 157 patients were enrolled in this study of whom 155 received at least one 
dose of study drug. Patients were on study for approximately 6 months, comprising about 3 months of 
active treatment and 3 months for follow-up. 
Eligible patients were males or females (≥ 18 years of age) diagnosed with high-risk stage II or stage 
III/IV breast cancer. Patients had to be either chemotherapy naïve (not received any form of 
chemotherapy) or could have received adjuvant therapy and/or completed no more than 1 regimen of 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. Any previous chemotherapy exposure was required to be 
completed > 3 weeks before randomisation into the phase III studies.  Subjects must have exhibited 
ECOG performance status ≤ 2; ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/L, platelets ≥ 100 x 109/L; and adequate renal 
function. 
• 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The primary endpoint in all clinical studies, including the phase III studies 990749 and 980226, was 
the DSN in chemotherapy cycle 1.  
Secondary endpoints assessed in the 2 phase III studies were: 
DSN in each of the chemotherapy cycles 2 through 4  
- 
Depth of ANC nadir in each of the cycles 1 through 4 
- 
The rates of febrile neutropenia (FN) by cycle and across all cycles 
- 
Times to ANC recovery in cycles 2 through 4 
- 
Median ANC-time profiles 
- 
The choice of primary endpoint was considered appropriate for pegfilgrastim following scientific 
advice from the CPMP in 1999. The CPMP concluded that the data proving identity of the mechanism 
9/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
of action for pegfilgrastim versus conventional filgrastim were sufficient to accept a 
pharmacodynamic endpoint in addition to the relationship between DSN and FN, which was validated 
for filgrastim. 
• 
Results 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
Demographic characteristics, baseline platelet counts and ANCs were well balanced between 
treatment groups in both studies. More than 50% of the patients enrolled in study 980226 had high risk 
stage II disease, while stage IV disease was the most frequent disease stage in study 990749. 
Consequently, the proportion of patients in study 990749 that had received prior chemotherapy and/or 
radiotherapy was higher compared with study 980226. 
Efficacy results 
- 
Duration Severe Neutropenia  
In study 980226 mean DSN were 1.7 and 1.6 days for pegfilgrastim and filgrastim respectively. In 
study 990749 mean DSN were 1.8 and 1.6 days for pegfilgrastim and filgrastim respectively.  
The upper-limit of the 2-sided 95% CI of the difference in mean DSN was less than 1 day in both 
studies: 0.40 days for the by-weight study 980226, and 0.61 days for the fixed-dose study 990749.  
The results of the ITT analyses of the primary endpoint were similar to those in the pP analyses. 
In both studies the mean DSN was shorter and the incidence of severe neutropenia was lower in both 
treatment arms in cycles 2 through 4 compared to cycle 1. 
In study 990749, consistent with cycle 1, both in the pP and ITT analyses, the 95% CI for the 
difference in mean DSN in each cycle spanned 0, with an upper limit of the 2-sided 95% CI of less 
than 1 day. In study 980226 mean DSN in each of the cycles 2 through 4 was shorter for the 
pegfilgrastim group compared to the filgrastim group (pP and ITT subsets).  
 The effect of weight on the difference in the mean DSN between the 2 treatment groups was 
investigated in the fixed-dose study 990749.  
DSN was investigated by the weight quartiles derived from the baseline subject weight range of the 
filgrastim group (≤ 62 kg, > 62 and ≤ 71 kg, > 71 and ≤80 kg, and > 80 kg) and by the weight strata 
used at randomisation (< 50 kg, ≥ 50 to < 80 kg, and ≥ 80 kg). No differences were observed between 
the mean DSN of each treatment group in any quartile that would suggest that DSN was adversely 
affected in heavier subjects, since the confidence limit for all weight groups span 0. Similar results 
were observed in all cycles, in both the pP and ITT analyses, and in analyses by randomised weight 
strata (< 80 kg and ≥ 80 kg). Twenty percent of subjects in both treatment groups in study 990749 
experienced a DSN longer than 2 days. The proportion of pegfilgrastim subjects who experienced a 
DSN of > 2 days in the ≤ 62 kg, > 62 and ≤ 71 kg, > 71 and ≤80 kg, and > 80 kg weight groups was 
12%, 34%, 15%, and 18% respectively, in cycle 1.A limited number of patients who weighed > 100 
kg were enrolled, these patients had a mean DSN comparable with the rest of the population. 
- 
Febrile Neutropenia 
In study 980226, 9% of the patients in the pegfilgrastim group experienced 1 or more febrile 
neutropenic events compared with 18% of the filgrastim patients (difference -9%, 95% CI of -16.8%, 
-1.1%). In study 990749 these percentages were 13% and 20% for the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim 
groups, respectively (difference -7%, 95% CI of -19%, 5%).The incidence of culture confirmed 
infectious episodes in both treatment groups were similar (9-10%). Intravenous anti-infective usage 
was similar in both treatment groups in both pivotal studies (in study 980226 19% in the pegfilgrastim 
group and 20% in the filgrastim group; in study 990749 17% in the pegfilgrastim group and 21% in 
the filgrastim group). 
10/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative Incidence of Febrile Neutropenia – Pivotal Studies (ITT  Subset) 
Number of Subjects in Subset 
Number (%) with Febrile Neutropenia 
   Yes 
   No 
   N/Aa 
Difference Between Filgrastim and 
Pegfilgrastimb 
   Difference Between Percentages 
   95% CI 
990749 
980226 
Filgrastim 
5 µg/kg/d 
75 
Pegfilgrastim
Fixed 6 mg 
77 
Filgrastim 
5 µg/kg/d 
147 
Pegfilgrastim 
100 µg/kg 
149 
 15 ( 20%) 
 60 ( 80%) 
  0 (  0%) 
 10 ( 13%) 
 67 ( 87%) 
  0 (  0%) 
 27 ( 18%) 
119 ( 81%) 
  1 (  1%) 
 14 (  9%) 
135 ( 91%) 
  0 (  0%) 
 -7.0 
(-18.9,  4.8) 
 -9.0 
(-16.8, -1.1) 
a Subject withdrew before the period of expected severe neutropenia 
b Differences calculated by subtracting the filgrastim from the pegfilgrastim percentages 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies were conducted in children. 
The influence of renal or hepatic function on the pharmacokinetics of pegfilgrastim has not been 
studied. Due to the neutrophil-mediated clearance mechanism, clearance of pegfilgrastim is not 
expected to be affected by renal or hepatic impairment.  
Supportive studies 
Study 990117 was a randomised, open-label, phase II study comparing the effect of a single sc 
injection of 100 µg/kg of pegfilgrastim per chemotherapy cycle with daily sc injections of 5µg/kg/day 
of filgrastim in patients with Hodgkin’s or non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL). Eligible patients were 
patients diagnosed with Hodgkin’s or NHL with relapsed disease of any histological classification. 
Patients with refractory NHL were included if refractory to first-line CHOP chemotherapy. ESHAP 
chemotherapy (etoposide 40 mg/m2/day IV days 1-4, cisplatin 25 mg/m2/day iv days 1-4, cytarabine 
2000 mg/m2 IV day 5, and methylprednisolone 500 mg iv days 1-5) was administered during days 1 
through 5 and repeated every 3 weeks. On day 6 of each cycle, subjects received daily sc doses of 
filgrastim for up to 14 days (dependent on ANC) or a single sc dose of pegfilgrastim. 
The primary objective was to assess DSN after one cycle of ESHAP chemotherapy. Secondary 
endpoints were DSN during cycles 2 through 4, time to ANC recovery and ANC profiles in cycles 1 
through 4, and incidence of FN. The primary efficacy analysis was performed in the ITT subset. 
A total of 66 patients were enrolled in this study. 
Twenty-nine pegfilgrastim patients and 31 filgrastim patients received study drug in cycle 1 (ITT 
subset). Physical characteristics and median baseline ANC values were similar between groups. All 
patients had a history of prior chemotherapy.  The mean DSN in cycle 1 was 2.8 days and 2.4 days in 
the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim groups respectively.  The 95% confidence interval for the difference 
between the means was –0.95, 1.81. Mean time to ANC recovery in cycle 1 was 14.4 days and 15.5 
days in the filgrastim group and the pegfilgrastim group, respectively. The 95% confidence interval 
for the difference between the means was –0.84, 3.07. 
Study 990118 was an open-label, randomised, dose-finding phase II study designed to compare the 
effect of 2 different doses of single sc administration of pegfilgrastim (60- or 100 µg/kg) per 
chemotherapy cycle versus filgrastim 5 µg/kg/day or no cytokine (cycle 1 only) when administered to 
provide ANC support in elderly patients with NHL. Eligible patients were males or females (≥ 60 
years of age) diagnosed with NHL requiring treatment with standard CHOP chemotherapy. CHOP 
11/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
chemotherapy (day 1 cyclophosphamide 750 mg /m2 iv, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 iv, and vincristine 1.4 
mg/m2 iv, followed by prednisolone oral 100 mg/day on days 1-5) was repeated every 3 weeks and 
administered for a maximum of 6 cycles. On day 2 of each cycle, subjects received daily sc dose of 
filgrastim for up to 14 days (depending on ANC) or a single sc dose of pegfilgrastim. 
Fifty patients were included in this study. Forty-nine out of 50 randomised patients were evaluable for 
the ITT analysis in at least one cycle. Mean baseline ANC was similar between the treatment groups. 
The incidence of bone marrow involvement was higher in the pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg and 100 µg/kg 
groups than in the filgrastim group (15% and 29% versus 0%, respectively). More patients had 
received prior chemotherapy in the pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg and 100 µg/kg groups than in the filgrastim 
and no-cytokine group (31% and 43% versus 14% and 22%, respectively). Taking the factors ‘prior 
chemotherapy’ and ‘bone marrow involvement’ together, both recognised parameters for poor 
haematological recovery, 46% and 57% of the patients in the pegfilgrastim 60 µg/kg and 100 µg/kg 
dose groups, respectively, had either prior chemotherapy or bone marrow involvement or both, versus 
14% of the patients in the filgrastim group.  
Both pegfilgrastim dose groups had a significantly shorter DSN compared with the ‘no cytokine’ 
group (-2.77 and –3.54 days for the pegfilgrastim 60- and 100 µg/kg groups, respectively). The 
difference in the mean DSN between filgrastim and pegfilgrastim 60- and 100 µg/kg, was 1.38 days 
(95% CI 0.39, 2.38) and 0.62 (95% CI –0.33, 1.56) days, respectively 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety population in this application consisted of 796 patients treated for a malignant disease. 465 
out of 796 patients were treated with pegfilgrastim at dose levels of 30-, 60-, or 100 µg/kg (n=259), or 
a fixed dose of 6 mg (n=79). The mean number of sc injections in the pegfilgrastim group was 3.8 (SD 
1.0), with a mean cumulative dose of 321.6 µg/kg (SD 118.8). The filgrastim group consisted of 331 
patients. They received a mean number of 38.9 (SD 11.9) sc injections and a mean cumulative dose of 
195.6 µg/kg (SD 59.9). Eighty-eight percent of the 796 patients completed all on-study chemotherapy 
cycles.  
Early termination in patients treated with pegfilgrastim ranged from 6% in the fixed dose group to 
18% in the 30 µg/kg group. In the filgrastim group 12% of patients terminated early from the studies. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
Incidence rates of adverse events (AEs) in each category compared closely between treatment groups. 
All patients experienced at least one AE. 
The most frequently occurring AEs were associated with the administration of chemotherapy and the 
incidence was similar between the filgrastim group and the combined pegfilgrastim group.  These 
included, in descending order of incidence, nausea 72 % and 72%, fatigue 67% and 70%, alopecia 
63% and 69%, diarrhoea 49% and 49%, vomiting 44% and 40%, constipation 34% and 36%, fever 
39% and 35%, and anorexia 27% and 27% for the filgrastim group and the combined pegfilgrastim 
group, respectively. The incidence of AEs was similar between the filgrastim group and the combined 
pegfilgrastim group.  The AEs reported in patients who received a fixed dose of pegfilgrastim were 
similar in nature and frequency to those reported in the per-weight dose groups and in the filgrastim 
group. 
Within age groups (< 65 years of age and ≥ 65 years), the overall incidence of AEs was similar 
between filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Data from 85 patients, ≥ 65 years of age, in the pegfilgrastim 
group did not suggest a contraindication for the use of pegfilgrastim in an elderly population. Severe 
AEs were reported in 50% of the patients in the filgrastim group versus 49% of the patients in the 
combined pegfilgrastim group. The most common severe AEs were associated with the administration 
of chemotherapy. The incidence of serious AEs was identical for the filgrastim group and the 
combined pegfilgrastim group (24%). Serious AEs that occurred in ≥ 2% of pegfilgrastim patients 
12/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
were fever, granulocytopenia, dehydration, and vomiting. These events are commonly associated with 
the administration of chemotherapy.  
Adverse Events by category 
Filgrastim 
5 µg/kg/day 
Preferred Term 
Number of subjects in 
331 
Pegfilgrastim 
30 µg/kg 
60 µg/kg 
100 µg/kg 
Fixed 6 mg 
All 
sc 
34 
sc 
93 
sc 
259 
sc 
79 
Pegfilgrastim 
465 
subset 
All AEs 
Severe, life-threatening 
or  
  fatal AEs 
Serious AEs 
Related AEs 
Related severe,  
  life-threatening or 
fatal AEs 
331 (100%) 
34 (100%) 
93 (100% 
258 (100%) 
79 (100%)  464 (100%) 
165 (50%) 
22 (65%) 
42 (45%) 
122 (47%) 
42 (53%) 
228 (49%) 
  81 (24%) 
12 (35%) 
154 (47%) 
 7 (21%) 
23 (25%) 
22 (24%) 
 61 (24%) 
14 (18%) 
110 (24%) 
101 (39%) 
45 (57%) 
175 (38%) 
 21 ( 6%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
 2 ( 2%) 
 13 ( 5%) 
 2 ( 3%) 
 17 ( 4%) 
Related serious AEs 
   2 ( 1%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
Withdrawals due to 
 22 ( 7%) 
  6 (18%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
 7 ( 8%) 
  0 ( 0%) 
 1 ( 1%) 
   1 ( 0%) 
 17 ( 7%) 
 2 ( 3%) 
 32 ( 7%) 
AEs 
Death 
   5 ( 2%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
 2 ( 2%) 
  4 ( 2%) 
 1 ( 1%) 
  7 ( 2%) 
The overall incidence rates of AEs that in the opinion of the investigator were possibly related to 
study-drug were comparable between the filgrastim group and the combined pegfilgrastim group; 47% 
and 38%, respectively.  
Subject Incidence of Related Adverse events by frequency of preferred term reported in ≥ 2% of 
subjects   
Preferred Term 
  Filgrastim 
5 µg/kg/day 
30 µg/kg 
sc 
60 µg/kg 
sc 
331 
34 
93 
Pegfilgrastim 
100 g/kg 
sc 
259 
Fixed 6 mg 
sc 
All 
Pegfilgrastim 
79 
465 
Number of subjects in 
subset 
Number of subjects 
reporting 
   related AEs 
154 (47%) 
7 (21%) 
22 (24%) 
101 (39%) 
45 (57%) 
175 (38%) 
Pain skeletal 
 89 (27%) 
4 (12%) 
10 (11%) 
 57 (22%) 
25 (32%) 
 96 (21%) 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Headache 
Pain back 
Injection site pain 
Pain limb 
 25 ( 8%) 
 19 ( 6%) 
 12 ( 4%) 
 26 ( 8%) 
  9 ( 3%) 
  7 ( 2%) 
0 ( 0%) 
2 ( 6%) 
1 ( 3%) 
0 ( 0%) 
0 ( 0%) 
0 ( 0%) 
 5 ( 5%) 
 5 ( 5%) 
 2 ( 2%) 
 3 ( 3%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
 3 ( 3%) 
 22 ( 8%) 
 17 ( 7%) 
 13 ( 5%) 
 10 ( 4%) 
  8 ( 3%) 
  9 ( 3%) 
 5 ( 6%) 
 3 ( 4%) 
 4 ( 5%) 
 6 ( 8%) 
 8 (10%) 
 0 ( 0%) 
 32 ( 7%) 
 27 ( 6%) 
 20 ( 4%) 
 19 ( 4%) 
 16 ( 3%) 
 12 ( 3%) 
“Bone pain” was defined as any pain reported by the patient in bone areas that are primary bone 
marrow-bearing sites and included adverse event preferred terms of pain skeletal, pain back, pain 
limb, arthralgia, etc.  Bone pain has been described as "medullary" bone pain in that it is believed to be 
due to medullary or bone marrow expansion resulting from the stimulation of neutrophil precursors in 
the bone marrow. In all studies combined the overall incidences of bone pain reported were 44% and 
13/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
50%, for the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim groups respectively. The incidence of bone pain in the 6 mg 
fixed dose pegfilgrastim group was 57% compared to 64% in the filgrastim patients in the fixed dose 
study 990749. No difference in the incidence of bone pain was observed when analysed by weight 
quartiles (study 990749). In the lowest quartile (≤62 kg) 12 out of 21 (57%) patients reported bone 
pain compared with 13 out of 21 (62%) patients in the highest quartile (> 80 kg). For bone pain that in 
the opinion of the investigator was possibly related to study drug (referred to as “related bone pain” in 
this text) the percentages were 29% (6/21) in the lowest quartile versus 38% (8/21) in the highest 
quartile. No patients treated with pegfilgrastim withdrew from any study because of bone pain. 
In all studies combined, cytokine-related bone pain occurred in 26% of patients across all 
pegfilgrastim dose groups, compared with 33% for filgrastim. In both pivotal studies, the incidence of 
related bone pain was similar between the filgrastim and pegfilgrastim treatment arms. The incidence 
of related bone pain reported in the fixed dose study was 37% and 42% for pegfilgrastim and 
filgrastim, respectively and in the by-weight study was 29% and 34% for pegfilgrastim and filgrastim, 
respectively. The majority of related bone pain AEs were mild to moderate in severity without an 
apparent difference in severity between the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim treatment groups. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Fifty-four patients withdrew from studies because of AEs (7% in each of the treatment groups). All 
AEs that led to withdrawal were related to the primary disease or were known side effects of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. No patient withdrew from any study due to a bone-pain adverse event. 
Laboratory findings 
Mild to moderate transient increases in alkaline phosphatase, LDH, and uric acid without clinical 
sequelae were observed in the combined pegfilgrastim group and were comparable to findings in the 
filgrastim group. A pegfilgrastim dose relationship was not observed.  Analysis of WHO toxicity 
grade shifts from baseline in all cycles for white blood cells, hemoglobin, and platelets showed 
comparable results in the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim groups. Three out of 465 patients in the 
filgrastim group, all treated with a dose of 100 µg/kg, experienced an ANC > 100 x 109/L on day 3 or 
4, without clinical sequelae. 
Serum samples for antibody testing were collected at the beginning of each chemotherapy cycle and 
during follow-up visits. The first and second generation antibody screening assays used in the initial 
four phase 1/2 studies resulted in a number of patients with reactive samples, which later appeared to 
be a result of non-specific reactivity rather than specific antibody. In the pivotal studies and the studies 
in NHL, an improved BIAcore screening assay was applied, capable of specifically detecting 
antibodies to pegfilgrastim as well as low-affinity antibodies. The incidence of confirmed reactive 
samples were 0% and 1% for pegfilgrastim and filgrastim, respectively using the BIAcore assay but 
these were not associated with any clinical sequelae. No neutralising antibodies were detected in the 
cell-based immunoassay in any serum sample in the safety population and no clinical evidence of 
antibodies was noted. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Discussion on quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Batch to 
batch consistency has been documented and the relevant test will be performed according to the 
agreed specifications 
Discussion on pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicity 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence that pegfilgrastim has 
been shown to have the same granulopoietic properties as filgrastim in vitro and in a variety of animal 
species, with the advantage of a prolonged duration of action after a single dose.   
14/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single-dose kinetic in different species all showed a sustained dose-related increase in blood 
neutrophils.  Repeated-dose studies were characterised by a diminished AUC response at later 
timepoints – explained by the increase in receptor-mediated clearance of pegfilgrastim due to the 
presence of the increasing mass of circulating myeloid cells.   
In single-dose toxicity studies, pegfilgrastim was well-tolerated and caused expected pharmacological 
effects. In repeated-dose toxicity studies in two species pegfilgrastim produced a range of changes that 
reflected an exaggerated pharmacological response, or a reaction to the primary response, such as 
extramedullary haematopoiesis in the spleen and liver.  All of the treatment-related changes were 
reversible in both species.  
Immunogenicity was determined in pharmacodynamic and repeat toxicity studies.  
No genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies have been undertaken which is acceptable given the 
biotechnological origin of the product and the reassuring clinical data on filgrastim.  
There were no adverse effects observed in offspring from pregnant rats given pegfilgrastim 
subcutaneously, but in rabbits pegfilgrastim has been shown to cause embryo/foetal toxicity (embryo 
loss) at higher doses. In rat studies, it was shown that pegfilgrastim may cross the placenta. This 
information is reported in the SPC. 
The dossier provided sufficient evidence that the pharmacological and toxicological profiles of 
pegfilgrastim and filgrastim are closely similar. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The application for pegfilgrastim was based on the results of six clinical studies (2 pivotal phase III 
studies and 4 supportive phase II studies) and two studies in healthy volunteers. 
Both pivotal studies enrolled patients with high-risk stage II or stage III/IV breast cancer who were 
treated with the same chemotherapeutic regimen consisting of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and docetaxel 
(75 mg/m2). Both studies were aimed at demonstrating non-inferiority of pegfilgrastim compared to 
filgrastim. In study 980226 pegfilgrastim was dosed by weight (100 µg/kg) and in study 990749 the 
study drug was administered in a fixed dose of 6 mg. 
In both pivotal studies non-inferiority of a single sc injection of pegfilgrastim compared to daily sc 
injections of filgrastim was demonstrated according to the predefined definition of non-inferiority: an 
upper limit of the 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean difference in DSN in cycle 1 in the pP 
subset of less than 1 day. The comparability of pegfilgrastim and filgrastim in the primary endpoint 
analysis was confirmed by the analysis of the DSN in cycles 2 through 4 in both pivotal studies. The 
analyses of the DSN in the pP subsets were supported by similar results in the ITT subsets. 
The effect of patient weight on the difference in the mean DSN between pegfilgrastim and filgrastim 
was investigated in the fixed dose study 990749. No indication was found that increasing weight 
resulted in prolongation of mean DSN in the patients treated with pegfilgrastim (6 mg). No significant 
differences in mean DSN between the pegfilgrastim group and the filgrastim control group were 
observed in any of the weight quartiles or weight strata. 
Analyses of clinical endpoints supported the primary endpoint including the cumulative subject 
incidence of FN, the overall incidence of culture-confirmed infections and use of IV anti-infectives. 
The cumulative incidence of FN was 9 and 13% in the pegfilgrastim treatment groups in studies 
980226 and 990749, respectively versus 18% and 20% in the filgrastim treatment arms. The incidence 
of FN reported after administration of this chemotherapeutic combination without cytokine support 
varies from 33-50%. 
Phase II studies in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's disease or NHL, treated with ESHAP 
salvage chemotherapy (study 990117) or CHOP combination chemotherapy for NHL (study 990118), 
were supportive of the pivotal study results and provide evidence of efficacy in other chemotherapy 
settings. 
15/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Safety of pegfilgrastim was assessed and compared to the safety profile of filgrastim in 796 patients 
treated for a malignant disease with multiple cycles of chemotherapy; 465 patients received 
pegfilgrastim and 331 patients received filgrastim. The size of the safety population is considered 
sufficient. 
As expected, the mean number of SC injections per treatment was considerably less in the 
pegfilgrastim group compared with the filgrastim group, thereby offering convenience to the patients. 
The incidences of all AEs, serious AEs, related (serious) AEs and withdrawals due to AEs and deaths 
were comparable between the pegfilgrastim and filgrastim treatment groups. The most frequently 
occurring AEs were associated with the primary disease and/or the administration of chemotherapy 
(nausea, fatigue, alopecia, diarrhoea, vomiting, constipation, fever, and anorexia) and their incidences 
were comparable between the two treatment groups. The nature and frequency of AEs observed in the 
fixed dose pegfilgrastim group was similar to those reported in the by-weight pegfilgrastim dose 
groups and the filgrastim group. 
Six out of 465 patients in the pegfilgrastim group died on study or within 30 days after administration 
of study drug. Their deaths were considered not to be related to the administration of study drug. Nine 
out of 331 patients randomised to filgrastim died with one death considered to be possibly related to 
the study drug. 
Mild to moderate bone pain has been a consistently observed AE with filgrastim therapy. Bone pain 
was reported in 44% of the patients treated with pegfilgrastim compared with 50% in the filgrastim 
patients. In the fixed dose study, no difference in the incidence of bone pain was observed when 
analysed by weight quartile. However, the lowest quartile (≤ 62 kg) in this study consisted only of 21 
patients.  
The overall incidences of study drug-related AEs were 47% and 38% in the filgrastim group and 
pegfilgrastim group, respectively. Bone pain was the most frequently reported study drug-related AE 
in each dose group of pegfilgrastim and in the filgrastim group (overall incidence 26% and 33% for 
pegfilgrastim and filgrastim, respectively). A possible dose-relationship was seen in related bone pain 
for the pegfilgrastim groups. This dose-response effect of bone pain is known after therapy with 
filgrastim. In both pivotal studies the incidences of (related) bone pain were comparable between the 
pegfilgrastim and filgrastim treatment arms. Bone pain was of mild to moderate severity in the 
majority of patients, with a comparable severity between pegfilgrastim and filgrastim. 
No neutralising antibodies were detected in the cell-based immunoassay in any serum sample in the 
safety population and no clinical evidence of antibodies was noted. 
Post-marketing experience 
Following the assessment of the 2nd PSUR (1st August 2002 to 31st January 2003), a total of 6 cases of 
hypersensitivity and 1 case of anaphylactic reaction associated with the product were described in the 
2nd PSUR. The MAH applied (September 2003) to introduce additional text to section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) of the Summary of Product Characteristics. In addition some of the more 
common ADRs associated with these allergic reactions have also been included such as, dyspnoea, 
rash, palpitations and angioedema. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Neulasta  in  the  therapeutic  indication  “Reduction  in  the  duration  of 
neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy 
for  malignancy  (with  the  exception  of  chronic  myeloid  leukaemia  and  myelodysplastic  syndromes)” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the grant of a marketing authorisation. 
16/16 
   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
