14 December 2023               
EMA/550890/2023 
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Neupro  
rotigotine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000626/P46/048 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program .............................................................. 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study<ies> ..................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................. 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 10 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ...................................... 11 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On  the  12th  of  September  2023,  the  MAH  UCB  submitted  the  results  of  the  prematurely  terminated 
paediatric  study  RL0007,  an  open-label,  long-term  follow-up  study  of  monotherapy  administration  of 
the rotigotine transdermal system in adolescents (13 to 17 years of age) with idiopathic Restless Leg 
Syndrome (RLS), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
RL0007 was prematurely terminated by UCB because of unsatisfactory enrolment in the SP1006 parent 
study. Additionally, only 10 out of 18 study participants (56%) who completed this parent study were 
enrolled  in  study  RL0007;  9  out  of  the  10  study  participants  (90%)  who  enrolled  in  study  RL0007 
received the investigational medicinal product (IMP). Despite extensive and diligent outreach efforts to 
increase  enrolment  in  these  studies,  there  appeared  to  be  low  interest  from  the  population  of 
adolescents with idiopathic RLS, which contributed to the insufficient enrolment.  
A short critical expert overview was provided.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study RL0007, a Remote, Open-Label, Long-Term, Follow-up Study to determine 
the  safety,  tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  Rotigotine  transdermal  system  as  monotherapy  in  adolescents 
With Restless Legs Syndrome, and study SP1006, are stand-alone studies. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study<ies> 
Rotigotine, a dopamine agonist, has been formulated as a transdermal delivery system and is designed 
to continuously provide rotigotine over a 24-hour period.  
The  rotigotine  transdermal  system  has  been  approved  in  the  EU  for  the  treatment  of  the  signs  and 
symptoms of early-stage idiopathic Parkinson’s disease as monotherapy, and as adjunctive therapy in 
combination  with  levodopa  over  the  course  of  the  disease  through  to  late  stages,  when  the  effect  of 
levodopa  wears  off  or  becomes  inconsistent  and  fluctuations  of  the  therapeutic  effect  occur.  In 
addition,  the  rotigotine  transdermal  system  is  approved  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  moderate-
to-severe idiopathic RLS in adults in the EU. In the US, the rotigotine transdermal system is approved 
for  the  treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  early  and  advanced-stage  idiopathic  Parkinson’s 
disease and for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary RLS. In Japan, the rotigotine transdermal 
system  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  Parkinson’s  disease  and  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of 
moderate-to-severe idiopathic RLS in adults.  
Overall, UCB or licensed partners hold marketing authorizations for the rotigotine transdermal system 
in  approximately  70  countries  for  the  treatment  of  Parkinson’s  disease,  and  in  approximately  40 
countries for the treatment of RLS. The specific indication statement(s), approved formulation(s), and 
dosages  for  the  rotigotine  transdermal  system  may  differ  based  on  the  country;  thus,  local  labels 
should be consulted for further information.  
In RL0007 study the rotigotine transdermal patch was administered in the following doses: 2mg/24h, 
and 3mg/24h.  
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for RL007. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
RL007  -  A  Remote,  Open-Label,  Long-Term,  Follow-up  Study  to  Determine  the  Safety, 
Tolerability,  and  Efficacy  of  Rotigotine  Transdermal  System  as  Monotherapy  in  Adolescents 
With Restless Legs Syndrome. 
Description 
RL0007 was a Phase 3, remote, open-label, long-term follow-up study of monotherapy administration 
of  the  rotigotine  transdermal  system.  Study  participants  who  entered  this  study  from  the  parent 
rotigotine study in  adolescents (SP1006) must have tolerated the first  dose level of  rotigotine in  that 
study without meeting the withdrawal criteria.  
The total study duration per study participant was approximately 14 months after study entry or until 
the  IMP  development  was  stopped  by  the  sponsor.  The  study  included  a  titration  period  of  up  to  3 
weeks (at maximum), a maintenance period of up to 1 year, a taper period up to a maximum of 4 days 
(de-escalation of IMP), and a 30-day safety Follow-Up (SFU) period.  
Methods 
Study participants 
The study was conducted in adolescent, 13 to 17 years of age, with idiopathic RLS. 
Treatments 
Rotigotine transdermal system. 
Objective(s) 
In  RL0007,  the  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  long-term  safety  and  tolerability  of  rotigotine 
treatment in adolescents with idiopathic RLS. The secondary objective of this study was to assess the 
long-term efficacy of rotigotine treatment in adolescents with idiopathic RLS.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Safety variables  
The primary safety variables were as follows:  
•  Occurrence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs)  
•  TEAEs leading to permanent withdrawal of investigational medicinal product (IMP)  
The other safety variables were as follows:  
•  Changes from Baseline (Visit 1, SP1006) in 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs)  
•  Changes from Baseline (Visit 1, SP1006) in vital signs (including assessment of orthostasis)  
 
 
•  Changes from Baseline (Visit 1, SP1006) in hormone status  
•  Changes  from  Baseline  (Visit  1,  SP1006)  in  laboratory  data  (hematology,  clinical  chemistry, 
and urinalysis)  
•  Changes from Baseline in menstrual function for all female study participants  
•  Changes in Modified Minnesota Impulsive Disorder Interview (mMIDI)  
•  Changes from Baseline (Visit 1, SP1006) in body weight, height, and body mass index (BMI)  
Efficacy variables  
The secondary efficacy variables were as follows:  
•  Changes from Baseline in International Restless Legs Rating Scale (IRLS) sum score at Visit 9  
•  Changes from Baseline in Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) Item 1 at Visit 9  
•  Changes from Baseline in Restless Legs-6 Rating Scales (RLS-6) at Visit 9 Note: Visit 9 was the 
end of Maintenance (EoM) Visit. 
The other efficacy variables were as follows:  
•  Changes from Baseline in IRLS sum score at all visits except Visit 9  
•  Changes from Baseline in CGI Item 1 at all visits except Visit 9  
•  Changes from Baseline in RLS-6 at all visits except Visit 9  
•  Restless Legs Syndrome-Quality of Life Questionnaire (RLS-QoL)  
Pharmacokinetic variable 
The pharmacokinetic (PK) variable was plasma concentrations of rotigotine.  
Study design 
RL0007 was a Phase 3, remote, open-label, long-term follow-up study of monotherapy administration 
of  the  rotigotine  transdermal  system.  Study  participants  who  entered  this  study  from  the  parent 
rotigotine study in  adolescents (SP1006) must have tolerated the first  dose level of  rotigotine in  that 
study without meeting the withdrawal criteria.  
The total study duration per study participant was approximately 14 months after study entry or until 
the  IMP  development  was  stopped  by  the  sponsor.  The  study  included  a  titration  period  of  up  to  3 
weeks (at maximum), a maintenance period of up to 1 year, a taper period up to a maximum of 4 days 
(de-escalation of IMP), and a 30-day safety Follow-Up (SFU) period.  
RL0007 was conducted using a remote study model, which integrated telemedicine technology into the 
clinical  research  process  and  supported  management  of  research  activities,  including  data  collection. 
Study  visits  were  completed  using  the  unique  technology  platform  called  Science  37  Platform 
(PLATFORM),  a  software  interface  that  connected  study  participants/legal  representatives  to  their 
investigator/study  teams  through  a  study-issued  smartphone.  Mobile  study  personnel  visited  study 
participants’/legal  representatives’  homes  to  complete  certain  study  procedures  (e.g.,  neurological 
exams, physical exams, ECGs, lab collections, and vital signs).  
The study began with Visit 1/Screening, and assessments were performed on the same day as the final 
evaluation visit of the parent rotigotine study (Visit 9 of SP1006).  
 
 
The titration period of 3 weeks (starting at Visit 2/Day 1 and ending at Visit 5/Day 22) had the aim of 
achieving  the  individually  optimized  rotigotine  dosage.  Study  participants  were  initiated  on  rotigotine 
1mg/24h and were up-titrated on a weekly basis by 1mg/24h at a time (up to a maximum dosage of 
rotigotine 3mg/24h) until the optimal dose was reached. At each visit during the Titration Period, the 
investigator  determined  whether  the  study  participant  had  reached  his  or  her  optimal  dose  prior  to 
completing the scheduled assessments.  Once study  participants reached their  optimal  rotigotine dose 
(with  a  minimum  dose  of  rotigotine  1mg/24h  and  a  maximum  dose  of  rotigotine  3mg/24h),  they 
maintained that dose and completed the Titration Period without titrating to the next higher dose.  
The  maintenance  period  followed  the  titration  period  and  had  a  planned  duration  of  up  to  1  year 
(starting at Visit 5 and ending at Visit 9 [EoM]). Dose adjustment (up-titration and down-titration) of 
rotigotine  was  allowed  at  any  time  during  the  maintenance  period,  based  on  the  investigator’s 
assessment  of  efficacy/tolerability,  up  to  a  maximum  dose  of  rotigotine  3mg/24h.  At  Visit  9  (EoM), 
study  participants  entered  a  4-day  Taper  Period  (de-escalation  of  IMP)  followed  by  a  30-day  SFU 
Period.  
Visits were scheduled every week during the titration period, every 3 months during the maintenance 
period, and at the end of the SFU period.  
Procedures  for  a  withdrawal  visit  were  the  same  as  for  the  EoM  visit  (Visit  9/Month  12),  and 
assessments to be performed at an unscheduled visit were at the investigator’s discretion.  
Results 
Overall, 10 study participants from the SP1006 parent study enrolled in RL0007. One study participant 
was lost to follow up before starting IMP in RL0007; therefore, this study participant was not included 
in  the  Safety  Set  (SS),  which  consisted  of  all  study  participants  who  had  at  least  1  rotigotine  patch 
applied.  
A  total  of  9  study  participants  were 
included 
in  the  SS:  2  study  participants 
in  the 
rotigotine  2mg/24h  group  and  7  study  participants  in  the  rotigotine  3mg/24h  group.  No  study 
participants  had  a  final  titrated  or  back-titrated  dose  of  rotigotine  1mg/24h  upon  entering  the 
maintenance  period,  and  thus  results  are  only  presented  for  2  rotigotine  dose  groups  (rotigotine 
2mg/24h and rotigotine 3mg/24h) for this study.  
Among  the  study  participants  included  in  the  SS,  3  study  participants  (33.3%)  completed  the  study 
and 6 study participants (66.7%) discontinued the study. The most common primary reason for study 
discontinuation  was  other  and  occurred  for  3  study  participants  (33.3%);  all  3  were  related  to 
compliance.  Other  primary  reasons  for  study  discontinuation  were  withdrawal  by  parent/guardian  (2 
study participants [22.2%]) and protocol deviation (1 study participant [11.1%]).  
Study participant demographics  
Overall, the mean age of study participants was 15.7 years (range: 14 to 17 years), and the median 
age of participants was 15.0 years.  
Four  study  participants  (44.4%)  were  female,  and  5  study  participants  (55.6%)  were  male.  The  2 
study participants in the rotigotine 2mg/24h group were female.  
Eight out of the 9 study participants were white (88.9%), and 1 study participant was black or African 
American (11.1%). All of the study participants were not of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity.  
The mean weight, height, and BMI were 77.04kg, 169.01cm, and 26.89kg/m2, respectively. Three out 
of the 9 study participants had BMIs ≥30kg/m2 recorded at Baseline.  
 
 
Baseline data 
Diagnosis of RLS at Screening, including information about primary disease, augmentation, movement, 
and RLS confirmation and family affected, was collected in the parent study, SP1006.  
Efficacy results 
Because  of  the  study’s  premature  termination,  no  statistical  tests  of  efficacy  data  were  performed; 
however,  descriptive  summaries  of  a  subset  of  efficacy  data  were  produced.  No  imputation  rules  for 
missing data were applied.  
For  all  efficacy  measurements  (ie,  IRLS,  CGI  Item  1,  RLS-6,  and  RLS-QoL),  higher  scores  indicate 
worse disease.  
Because of the small number of study participants, no efficacy conclusions were reached.  
Secondary efficacy variables  
IRLS  
The Baseline mean IRLS sum score across all participants was 24.1. 
The  4  study  participants  who  completed  the  maintenance  period  had  reductions  in  IRLS  sum  score 
(disease improvement) from SP1006 Baseline to RL0007 EoM. There was a mean change in score of -
16.3 and a median change in score of -15.5 at Month 12 (EoM).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CGI Item 1  
The baseline mean CGI Item 1 score across all participants was 4.4.  
The  4  study  participants  who  completed  the  maintenance  period  had  reductions  in  CGI  Item  1  score 
(disease improvement) from SP1006 Baseline to RL0007 EoM. There were mean and median changes 
in score of -2.5 each at Month 12 (EoM).  
RLS-6  
The  4  study  participants  who  completed  the  maintenance  period  had  reductions  in  RLS-6  score 
(disease improvement) from SP1006 Baseline to RL0007 EoM across all 6 subscales. 
Other efficacy variables  
Seven  out  of  9  study  participants  had  reductions  in  RLS-QoL  total  score  (i.e.,  disease  improvement) 
from SP1006 Baseline to RL0007 EoM or Early Withdrawal Visit.  
For the remaining other efficacy variables, changes from Baseline by visit in IRLS sum score, CGI Item 
1, and RLS-6, data are provided for the SS.  
Safety results 
Extent of exposure  
Investigational  medicinal  product  duration  was  calculated  including  1  additional  day  after  the  final 
patch  removal.  Investigational  medicinal  product  duration  ranged  from  125.0  to  378.0  days,  not 
including  IMP  exposure  from  the  SP1006  parent  study.  Of  note,  only  3  of  9  study  participants 
completed the Treatment Period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events  
Summary of all TEAEs  
Overall, 8 study participants (88.9%) reported TEAEs. Six study participants (66.7%) reported TEAEs 
that  were  considered  IMP-related  by  the  investigator  (2  study  participants  [100%]  in  the  rotigotine 
2mg/24h group and 4 study participants [57.1%] in the rotigotine 3mg/24h group). No deaths, severe 
TEAEs,  serious  TEAEs,  or  TEAEs  leading  to  discontinuation  or  permanent  withdrawal  of  IMP  were 
reported.  
Most common TEAEs  
The  most  commonly  reported  TEAEs  by  PT  were  application  site  erythema  (4  study  participants 
[44.4%])  and  nausea  (3  study  participants  [33.3%]);  no  other  TEAEs  were  reported  by  >2  study 
participants. 
TEAEs by maximum intensity  
No severe TEAEs were reported during the study. 
IMP-related TEAEs  
Six  study  participants  (66.7%),  2  study  participants  (100%)  in  the  rotigotine  2mg/24h  group  and  4 
study  participants  (57.1%)  in  the  rotigotine  3mg/24h  group,  reported  IMP-related  TEAEs.  The  most 
commonly reported IMP-related TEAEs were application site erythema (4 study participants [44.4%]), 
 
 
 
 
pruritus  (2  study  participants  [22.2%]),  and  nausea  (2  study  participants  [22.2%]);  all  were  mild  in 
intensity. No other IMP-related TEAE was reported by >1 study participant.  
Deaths  
No deaths were reported during the study.  
Other serious AEs  
No serious TEAEs were reported during the study. 
Discontinuation due to AEs  
No study discontinuations due to TEAEs were reported during the study.  
Clinical laboratory evaluation  
Overall,  there  were  no  clinically  relevant  mean  changes  from  Baseline  or  notable  shift  patterns 
observed for any of the haematology, endocrinology, or clinical chemistry parameters evaluated during 
the study for the SS. In addition, no clinically relevant changes in urinalysis parameters were observed 
for the SS  
No study participants in the SS met the criteria for potential Hy’s Law, defined as ≥3xULN ALT or AST 
with coexisting  ≥2xULN total bilirubin  in  the absence of  ≥2xULN ALP, with no alternative explanation 
for the biochemical abnormality.  
Other observations related to safety  
Overall, there were no clinically relevant findings related to ECGs, vital signs, physical and neurological 
examinations, mMIDI data, or menstrual function and libido assessment for the SS.  
No  suicidal  ideation  as  assessed  by  the  Columbia-Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale  was  reported  for  the 
SS.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Because of the small number of study participants, no efficacy conclusions were reached.  
The  safety  profile  was  consistent  with  the  previous  studies  of  rotigotine  transdermal  system,  and  no 
new  or  unexpected  safety  concerns  were  observed.  There  were  no  deaths,  severe  TEAEs,  serious 
TEAEs, or study discontinuations due to TEAEs reported. These safety data suggest that both rotigotine 
2mg/24hr and rotigotine 3mg/24hr were well tolerated in adolescent study participants with idiopathic 
RLS.  
The safety profile of the adolescent participants who received rotigotine transdermal system treatment 
was  consistent  with  the  established  safety  profile  of  the  rotigotine  transdermal  system  in  adults.  No 
new safety concerns were identified in these participants and the results of the study do not impact the 
current benefit-risk balance of the rotigotine transdermal system.  
Because  of  the  small  number  of  study  participants,  the  efficacy  and  safety  results  from  this  study 
should be interpreted with caution.  
The  results  of  RL0007  are  being  submitted  in  accordance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC) 
No  1901/2006  (The  Paediatric  Regulation).  No  changes  to  the  approved  EU  Product  Information  (PI) 
for NEUPRO are being proposed based on RL0007 results.  
 
 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
Due to the small number of study participants, the efficacy and safety results from this study should be 
interpreted with caution.  
Notwithstanding, the safety profile of the adolescent participants (13 to 17 years of age) who received 
rotigotine  transdermal  system  treatment  was  consistent  with  the  established  safety  profile  of  the 
rotigotine transdermal system in adults. No new safety concerns were identified in this study. 
The  results  of  RL0007  are  being  submitted  in  accordance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC) 
No  1901/2006  (The  Paediatric  Regulation).  No  changes  to  the  approved  EU  PI  for  NEUPRO  are  being 
proposed based on RL0007 results.  
 PAM Fulfilled 
No regulatory action required 
 
 
 
