SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Neupro is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of early-stage idiopathic Parkinson’s 
disease. Neupro contains rotigotine, a new dopamine agonist, and is formulated as 10 cm2, 20 cm2, 30 
cm2 and 40 cm2 transdermal patches containing respectively 4.5 mg, 9.0 mg, 13.5 mg and 18.0 mg of 
rotigotine, and designed to release respectively 2 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg and 8 mg of rotigotine per 24 hours. 
Treatment should be initiated at 2 mg/24 h and then increased in weekly increments of 2 mg/24 h to an 
effective dose up to a maximal dose of 8 mg/24 h. 
Parkinson’s  disease  (PD)  is  a  neurodegenerative  disorder  characterized  by  a  progressive  loss  of 
dopaminergic  neurons  in  the  substantia  nigra.  Parkinson's  disease  is  clinically  characterised  by 
bradykinesia, resting tremor, rigidity and postural reflex impairment. The cause of Parkinson's disease 
is,  at  present  time,  unknown.  Parkinson's  disease  is  a  slowly  progressive  disease.  Pharmacological 
intervention  of  Parkinson's  disease  is  symptomatic.  Improvement  of  an  impaired  dopaminergic 
neurotransmission  is  the  backbone  of  therapy.  About  70%  of  patients  with  PD  will  require 
symptomatic  therapy  within  2  years  of  disease  onset.  The  choice  between  levodopa+decarboxylase 
inhibitor  or  a  dopamine-agonist  for  initial  therapy  remains  controversial.  On  the  one  hand 
levodopa+decarboxylase  inhibitor  is  more  effective  and  better  tolerated  than  dopamine-agonists,  on 
the other hand there are concerns that it might be toxic to dopaminergic neurons and that it promotes 
the development of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. 
Rotigotine is a new chemical substance belonging to the group of non-ergolinic dopamine agonists. It 
shows  a  close  structural  analogy  to  dopamine  and  apomorphine.  Rotigotine  has  been  developed  as 
transdermal patch to treat Parkinson's disease.  
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Neupro  is  presented  as  10  cm2,  20  cm2,  30  cm2  and  40  cm2  transdermal  patches  containing 
respectively 4.5 mg, 9.0 mg, 13.5 mg and 18.0 mg of rotigotine, and designed to release respectively 
2 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg and 8 mg of rotigotine per 24 hours. 
Each patch is composed of three layers:  
- 
- 
- 
a non removable backing layer, which consists of a siliconised, aluminised, colour coated 
and imprinted polyester film, 
a  self  adhesive  matrix  layer  containing  rotigotine,  poly(dimethylsiloxane,  trimethylsilyl 
silicate)-copolymerisate,  povidone,  sodium  metabisulphite,  ascorbyl  palmitate  and  α-
tocopherol,   
a removable protective layer, which is a transparent fluoropolymer coated polyester film. 
Each  transdermal  patch  is  packed  in  a  sachet  (paper/LDPE/alu/ET  copolymer  PET/Alu/  ET 
copolymer/paper)  placed  in  a  cardboard  carton.  The  different  strengths  are  available  separately  and 
also as a treatment initiation pack containing 7 transdermal patches of each strength.  
Active substance  
Rotigotine is a new non-ergolinic dopamine agonist. 
It is a white to off-white powder. Its water solubility and lipophilicity are pH dependent: at neutral pH 
it  is  poorly  water-soluble  and  lipophilic  (neutral  form)  and  at  more  acidic  pH  rotigotine’s  water 
solubility increases and its lipophilicity decreases (protonated form). 
It contains one chiral centre and it is synthesised solely as the S-isomer. No polymorphism has been 
observed  during  development.  Rotigotine  appears  to  be  sensitive  to  oxidation  and  it  is  not 
hygroscopic. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00 Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
Rotigotine is synthesised by a 5-step process from 3 starting materials. Satisfactory specifications and 
associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials,  key  intermediates,  reagents  and 
solvents. 
The chiral centre is introduced through the use of a key starting material and it is not affected by the 
synthesis. Moreover, chiral purity is controlled as part of the active substance specification. 
A  number  of  synthetic  processes  have  been  used  to  produce  batches  used  in  non-clinical/clinical 
studies. No significant differences between lots obtained by the different processes have been noted, 
especially in term of impurity profile.Satisfactory validation data on 3 consecutive commercial scale 
batches have been provided and confirm the robustness of the process. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for  appearance,  odor (PhEur), identity (IR, HPLC), 
melting point (PhEur), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), chiral purity (chiral HPLC), optical rotation, 
residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (PhEur), sulfated ash (PhEur) and water content. 
Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies.  
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  the  three  validation  batches  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and 
uniformity with the proposed specification. 
•  Stability 
Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/75%  RH  -  commercial  packaging)  and  long  term  conditions 
(25°C/60%  RH  -  commercial  packaging),  respectively  6-month  data  and  up  to  18-month  data  have 
been provided for two primary stability batches manufactured according to the synthesis route at the 
commercial synthesis site. 
The parameters tested included appearance, assay, melting point, purity and chiral purity. 
The proposed retest period is supported by the presented data when rotigotine is stored in commercial 
packaging. 
Medicinal product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Due  to  an  extensive  first-pass  effect,  rotigotine  showed  a  very  low  bioavailability  (below  1%)  in 
rodents after oral administration. Based on rotigotine suitable physico-chemical properties for delivery 
through  the  skin  (see  active  substance),  a  transdermal  formulation  has  been  developed  to  avoid  the 
first-pass effect after oral administration and to enable continuous drug administration over 24 hours. 
A matrix transdermal patch, where the active is in the adhesive through which it diffuses to the skin 
surface,  has  been  selected  in  order  to  keep  the  patch  size  as  small  as  possible  and  to  allow  an  easy 
application to the skin.  
The acrylic patch formulation initially developed was replaced by  a silicone formulation on grounds 
of superior bioavailability (see clinical section)The matrix layer  
comprises a mixture of two commercially available amine compatible silicone-type pressure-sensitive 
adhesives for which satisfactory data on composition, manufacture, control and toxicology have been 
provided (see non clinical section). Their ratio in the patch has been investigated during development 
in order to obtain an optimised adhesion/cohesion balance. Moreover, the adhesives inertness and their 
absence of physical/chemical incompatibility with rotigotine as well as their local tolerance (see non 
clinical section) has been confirmed during development studies.   
Different  in  vitro  methods  have  been  used  during  development  and  compared  with  in  vivo 
pharmacokinetic data in order to evaluate a possible in vitro/in vivo correlation and the suitability of 
dissolution methods for routine control (see Product Specification). 
The  drug  load  in  the  patch  (0.45  mg/cm2  equivalent  to  about  50%  surplus  compared  to  the  labeled 
strength)  has  been  justified  based  on  apparent  drug  release  data  determined  by  analyzing  the 
2/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
remaining  content  of  used  patches.  It  ensures  a  constant  thermodynamic  activity  of  the  drug  in  the 
matrix over the intended application period. 
Since rotigotine is sensitive to oxidation, 3 antioxidants have been added to the matrix so as to prevent 
oxidative degradation: sodium metabisulfite, α-tocopherol and ascorbyl palmitate.  
The backing film consists of a polyethylene terephthalate film siliconised on its inner side, aluminised 
and  coated  with  a  pigment  layer  on  the  outermost.  The  siliconised  inner  surface  provides  a  good 
anchorage for the matrix avoiding occurrence of adhesive residues on the skin after patch removal and 
no migration between the matrix layer and backing layer is expected. 
The  release  liner  consists  of  a  transparent  polyester  foil.  Stability  data  confirmed  that  significant 
migration of rotigotine into the protective foil can be excluded. 
Compatibility  of  rotigotine  with  the  adhesives,  povidone,  antioxidants,  solvents,  backing  film  and 
release liner has been confirmed. All the excipients are of PhEur quality except the silicone adhesives, 
the  backing  film  and  the  release  liner,  for  which  satisfactory  specifications  have  been  defined. 
Regarding the TSE risk, Neupro does not contain any ingredient of ruminant origin.  
The  primary  packaging  material  is  a  sachet  composed  of  two  heat  sealable  foils  composed  of  the 
following  layers  (1  foil:  (outside)  paper,  LDPE,  aluminium,  ethylene  copolymer  (inside)  1  foil:  
(outside) paper, ethylene copolymer, aluminium, polyethylene (inside)). It is in line with the European 
requirements for primary packaging materials. 
The commercial formulation was used for the dose finding study and the 2 pivotal trials.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  involves  the  following  operations:  preparation  of  the  drug  containing 
adhesive, coating onto the protective liner, evaporating the solvents, laminating the backing film onto 
the uncovered surface area of the dry adhesive matrix, cutting of the patches and heat-sealing of the 
sachets around the patches.. 
Satisfactory  operating  parameters  and  in-process  controls  have  been  defined  at  each  stage  of 
manufacture.  
Satisfactory validation data provided for batches up to commercial scale confirm the robustness and 
reproducibility of the manufacturing process including packaging. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests controlled by validated methods for appearance (backing film, 
matrix, protective liner, sachet), adhesive properties,, tightness of the primary packaging, weight of the 
matrix, identity (UV and HPLC), identity of α-tocopherol, assay (HPLC), assay α-tocopherol, residual 
solvents  (GC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  dissolution,  content  uniformity  (PhEur)  and  microbial 
purity (PhEur). 
Batch analysis data provided for batches manufactured at the proposed commercial manufacturing site 
comply with the specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
•  Stability of the Product 
A matrixing design has been used for the stability studies of the different  strengths. Under long-term 
conditions (25°C/60%RH – commercial packaging) and under accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH - 
commercial packaging) respectively up to 2 year-data and 6-month data have been provided. 
The parameters tested included appearance, adhesive properties, tightness of the primary packaging, 
weight  of  the  matrix,  residual  solvents,  purity,  dissolution,  assay,  content  uniformity  and  microbial 
purity. 
Stress  testing  on  patches  with  or  without  sachets  under  various  conditions  (high  temperatures  80°C, 
humidity,  oxidation  and  light,  cycling  testing  (storage  alternating  daily  between  4°C  and  40°C/75% 
RH))  has  been  performed.  Photostability  studies  have  shown  that  the  medicinal  product  is  not  light 
sensitive.  
3/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  significant  changes  have  been  observed  under  long-term  conditions  and  the  results  presented 
support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the active substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing  process  ensures  to  obtain  reproducible  finished  product  batches.  Stability  tests  under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life.  
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion  there  were  some  minor  unresolved  quality  issues  which  had  no 
impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as 
follow-up  measures  within  an  agreed  timeframe,  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the 
evaluation of this additional information 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Rotigotine has been synthesized as a dopamine agonist for the treatment of PD. Its high lipophilicity 
and the rapid first pass  metabolism  made oral administration difficult; however, the same properties 
made it suitable for a transdermal delivery system. 
Nonclinical  studies  with  rotigotine  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  and  monkeys.  Sufficient 
exposure multiples were achieved in vivo to allow comparison with clinical data, and in the calculation 
of safety margins. 
Except  for  two  repeated-dose  toxicity  and  two  local  tolerance  studies,  all  other  pivotal  studies  were 
stated  as  performed  in  compliance  with  GLP.  The  data  from  the  non-GLP  studies  were  sufficiently 
supported by the GLP- compliant studies. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
A profiling program was performed to identify the receptor binding properties of rotigotine in detail 
using cloned human receptors where possible.  
The  dopamine  (DA)  receptor  population  in  brain  and  periphery  consists  of  several  subtypes.  For 
example,  the  postsynaptic  D1  receptor  and  the  D2-receptor  which  is  located  both  pre-  and 
postsynaptically. Later D3 and D4 receptors were identified, which are similar to D2. D3 receptors are 
highly expressed in limbic regions of the brain and less so in motor divisions (caudate/putamen). The 
Ki-value of dopamine, bromocriptine, quinpirole and 7-OH-DPAT for D3 receptors is respectively 25, 
7.4, 5.1 and 0.8 nM and Ki-ratio D2/D3 is respectively 19, 0.7, 113 and 78 (i.e. quinpirole being most 
selective  for  D3).  The  D3  receptor  is  most  widely  cited  in  the  inhibition  of  locomotor  activity  (D2 
induces stimulation). 
Rotigotine is an agonist at all dopamine receptors, showing highest affinity and highest activity via the 
D3  receptor.  Rotigotine  was  found  to  preferentially  bind  to  all  dopamine  receptors  with  a  clear 
preference for the D3 receptor (Ki value of 0.7 nM versus 13-83 nM for D2 and D1). The affinities to 
the  other  dopamine  receptors  were  found  to  be  approximately  8  to  20-fold  less  for  the  D2,  D4,  D5 
receptors  or  approximately  120-fold  less  for  the  D1  receptor.  Ki-ratio  D2/D3  of  rotigotine  is  19. 
Rotigotine also interacted with alpha2B, alpha2C, 5-HT1A, 5-HT7, and sigma  receptors (Ki 27-149 
nM), showed a minor interaction with monoamine transporters, but did not affect DA-metabolism in 
vitro. 
4/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In vitro, rotigotine exhibits both agonistic (D3, alpha1, 5-HT) and antagonistic (alpha2, M2) effects. It 
behaves as partial alpha2 agonist in the electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens and was shown to 
inhibit noradrenaline (and DA) release(IC50 of 48 nM).  
Rotigotine induces stereotyped behavior (ED50 0.53 mg/kg i.p. in rats) and enhanced motor activity in 
MPTP  lesioned  marmosets  at  ≥20  µg/kg  s.c.,  where  it  restores  locomotor  activity  and  reduces 
disability with the locomotion resembling normal performance. With respect to contralateral rotations: 
at a dose of 6.2 µg/kg, rotigotine s.c., administered via minipump, is persistently effective in an animal 
model of PD (6-OHDA-lesioned rat). After i.v., i.p. and p.o. application, the functional activity was 
short lasting, but prolonged after s.c. or i.m. (bolus) treatment. 
Phase  1  metabolites  exhibit  a  binding  profile  similar  to  that  of  rotigotine.  The  R-enantiomer  of 
rotigotine,  exhibited  a  lower  affinity  to  the  DA-receptors  than  rotigotine.  In  in  vivo  models  of  PD 
(induction  of  stereotype  behavior  in  rats  or  induction  of  contralateral  rotations  in  6-OHDA-lesioned 
rats), the R-enantiomer was inactive or behaved as partial agonist. 
Concerning rotigotine metabolism, the phase 1 metabolites SPM 9206 (desthienylethyl-rotigotine) and 
SPM 9257 (despropyl-rotigotine) are not expected to contribute to the effects of rotigotine in vivo.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Some  indications  of  antidepressant  activity  have  been  found  for  rotigotine  (0.5-5  mg/kg  s.c.),  but  it 
was  difficult  to  discriminate  from  non-specific  motor  stimulation.  Rotigotine  shows  no  anti-anxiety 
activity.  Rotigotine  retains  some  dyskinesia-inducing  potential  and  inhibits  prolactin  release  in  vivo 
(D2 agonism) in pig-tailed macaque monkeys. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Rotigotine  (0-1  mg/kg  s.c.)  showed  no  effect  on  hexobarbital-induced  sleeping  time,  but  had 
nociceptive (ED50 0.9 mg/kg) and pro-convulsive activity (>0.1 mg/kg) in mice.  
Rotigotine affected action potential duration and hERG-mediated potassium current at concentrations 
that far exceed (143 and 214 times, respectively) human unbound mean peak plasma concentrations 
achieved at 18 mg. In animal studies, rotigotine had some effect on blood pressure (anaesthetised rats 
15%  at  ≥  0.04  mg/kg  i.v.)  and  heart  rate  (anaesthetised  rats  12%  reduction  at  ≥  1  mg/kg  i.v.).  In 
conscious  monkeys,  single  dysrhythmias  such  as  distortion  or  reduction  of  the  QRS  complex  were 
observed  after  injection  of  0.03  mg/kg,  and  rotigotine  induced  transient  biphasic  responses  with 
secondary  sustained  decreases  of  20-40%  in  mean  blood  pressure  that  were  dose-related  (40%  at  3 
mg/kg i.v.) severe but transitory. Rotigotine did not accumulate in cardiac tissue further supporting the 
calculation procedure based on free plasma levels.  
In the  monkey, total radioactivity of labeled rotigotine was poorly distributed within the tissues and 
was rapidly eliminated with no apparent retention. Rotigotine at doses of 0.1 - 1 mg/kg s.c. elicited a 
reduction in urinary volume and electrolyte excretion in female rats.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  except  for  the  interaction  with  L-dopa/carbidopa  in  rats 
and monkeys. Rotigotine 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg/48 h s.c. did not appear to augment the behavioral changes 
after co-administration with L-dopa/carbidopa. 
5/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
When dosed intravenously, rotigotine has a short half life. An oily crystal suspension formulation of 
rotigotine for subcutaneous administration demonstrated sustained release effects when tested in rats 
and monkeys. When using the subcutaneous formulation, the kinetics are controlled by the absorption 
or  release  rate  from  the  formulation,  a  phenomenon  also  observed  in  humans  following  patch 
application. 
The transdermal route via silicone patches is relevant because this is the same route of administration 
as  applied  in  the  clinical  situation.  This  route  of  exposure  was  however  not  suitable  for  performing 
toxicological  studies,  because  of  too  much  discomfort  and  skin  lesions  to  the  animals  and  possibly 
large interindividual variation in release of rotigotine from the patches.  
•  Absorption- Bioavailability 
Results  obtained  with  the  patch  administration  in  animals  showed  that  the  silicone  based  patch  was 
superior  to  the  acrylic  based  patch  with  respect  to  substance  release.  Following  repeated  dosing,  81 
and  93  %  substance  was  released  from  the  silicone  patch  on  the  rat  and  monkey,  respectively.  The 
corresponding % release from the acrylic based patch was 28 and 22 %, respectively.  
Subcutaneous  dosing  was  applied  in  the  toxicological  studies.  Although  bioavailability  was  higher 
following  this  type  of  dosing,  the  plasma  concentration  profile  in  rats  and  monkeys  following  1 
administration over 24 or 48 hours was comparable to that in humans (1 silicone patch/24 hours).  
The subcutaneous formulation resulted in a continuous systemic exposure in the animals over the dose 
periods  of  24  or  48  hours  and  plasma  concentrations  increased  with  dose  in  a  linear  manner.  When 
comparing  the  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  following  administration  of  1  mg/kg  of  the 
subcutaneous  dose  formulation  to  the  mouse  (normalized),  rat,  rabbit  and  monkey,  the  approximate 
Cmax values obtained were 2, 5, 16 and 3 ng/ml, respectively. In the clinical trial SP511 a normalized 
dose of 1 mg/kg of rotigotine in the patch resulted in an average Cmax plasma concentration of around 
7  ng/mL  and  AUC  values  of  around  140  h  ng/ml.  Pharmacokinetic  safety  ratios  for  the  repeat  dose 
toxicity studies were found to be 1 and 1-2 in the rat and monkey, respectively, when calculated from 
Cmax.  
6/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Only single and no repeated-dose tissue distribution studies were conducted as no target organs had 
been observed in the toxicological studies, which are not related to the pharmacodynamic or dopamine 
agonistic properties of rotigotine. Rotigotine and its metabolites were distributed to a wide variety of 
tissues, but in most cases also rapidly cleared. Long exposure times were observed in pigmented eye 
and fur in rats. Relatively high concentrations of radioactivity were  measurable in adrenals,  kidneys 
and Harderian gland, and in monkeys additionally in the prostate gland and the eye. From studies in 
the  rat  and  monkey,  the  prostate  gland  and  the  adrenals  were  identified  as  pharmacokinetic  target 
organs for potential compound-related side effects when in clinical use. Therefore, these organs were 
carefully investigated in the toxicology studies by histopathology.  
The compound binds to melanin giving rise to high concentrations of compound in the pigmented eye 
and skin. 
Binding of rotigotine to plasma proteins ranged between 86 and 92 % in the mouse, rat, monkey and 
human. Binding at therapeutic plasma concentration in human plasma was found to be ca. 90 %.  
Rotigotine crosses the placenta and exposes the fetus when dosed to pregnant animals.  
Combining the tissue and brain distribution studies with the in vivo metabolism identification study in 
the monkey, estimates of human brain concentrations of rotigotine could be made. Following a 1-hour 
intravenous  infusion  of  1  mg/kg  of  rotigotine  to  the  monkey,  brain  rotigotine  concentrations  up  to 
around 320 ng/ml may be reached. By analogy, brain concentrations of the SPM 9206 metabolite up to 
36  ng/ml  may  be  achieved.  In  the  monkey,  the  ratio  of  the  brain  over  the  plasma  concentration  for 
rotigotine is around 5. Having a maximum therapeutic plasma concentration of 2.1 ng/ml in patients 
and assuming the ratio of the brain over plasma concentration ratio is identical in human and monkey, 
human brain concentrations up to 10 ng/ml may be achieved for rotigotine when in clinical use. 
•  Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
Following  absorption  rotigotine  was  rapidly  metabolised.  Three  phase  1  metabolites  showed 
pharmacological activity. However, pharmacokinetics of these metabolites were not required as their 
presence in plasma was too low.  
The major metabolite observed in animal hepatocytes, the glucuronide conjugate of rotigotine, was in 
vivo  excreted  into  bile  and  only  reached  the  blood  system  at  low  levels.  Conjugates  of  the  N-
dealkylated  metabolites  were  found  to  be  the  major  metabolites  in  plasma.  Following  subcutaneous 
administration, the sulfate and the glucuronide conjugates of the SPM 9206 metabolite and the sulfate 
conjugates of the SPM 9257 and the sulfate of the desthienylethyl despropyl metabolite were found to 
be the major metabolites in plasma. In human plasma, the sulphate conjugates of rotigotine, the SPM 
9206  and  the  SPM  9257  metabolite  were  found  to  be  the  major  metabolites.  All  the  human  major 
metabolites found in plasma were also found in the plasma of the main toxicological species.  
CYP2C19 was found to be the major CYP isoform involved in the phase 1 metabolism of rotigotine. 
However, multiple CYP-isoforms appear to be capable of catalyzing the metabolism. In vitro studies 
suggest a low risk for drug-drug interactions with co-administered drugs which are substrates of CYP 
isoforms in vivo. Also, no induction of human liver CYP isoforms has been found. No potential for 
displacement  of  rotigotine  by  warfarin  and  vice  versa  was  detected  with  human  serum  albumin  in 
vitro.  Rotigotine  was  found  not  to  be  a  substrate  for  P-glycoprotein  and  does  not  modulate  digoxin 
transport in vitro. 
Rotigotine  (S  enantiomer)  is  a  chiral  substance.  No  studies  were  conducted  in  animal  species  for 
quantification  of  the  R  enantiomer,  as  its  presence  is  considered  to  be  unlikely  for  the  following 
reasons:  a)  Rotigotine  is  unlikely  to  undergo  racemization  due  to  its  chemical  stability  at  the  chiral 
center;  b)  The  metabolic  processes  do  not  attack  the  chiral  position  of  the  molecule;  and  c)  When 
analyzing human urine samples, the R-enantiomer was not found. 
7/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Excretion 
 In rats, rotigotine and/or its metabolites are mainly excreted by biliary excretion into the feces. This 
route  of  excretion  only  is  of  importance  in  rats.  In  humans  and  monkeys,  urinary  excretion  is  the 
dominant route of excretion. Moreover, following intravenous dosing a short elimination half-life of 
approximately 1.8 hours in rats and 0.7 hours in monkeys could be observed. Therefore accumulation 
is not to be expected in case of constant release from patches or subcutaneous depots. Some studies, 
especially transdermal dosing in rats, give the impression of accumulation, but this is entirely due to 
increasing release of rotigotine. 
Toxicology 
The  majority  of  pivotal  repeated  dose  toxicity,  all  reproductive  toxicity  studies  and  carcinogenicity 
were  conducted  with  an  alternative  oily  crystal  suspension  by  s.c.  administration.  Using  this  test 
article, plasma levels were achieved, which mimic those in humans after patch administration. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Only  one  non-GLP  intravenous  study  in  mice  was  submitted  from  which  no  meaningful  conclusion 
can be drawn. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
An overview of the pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies is shown in the table below. 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Mouse 
10/sex/gp  
+ 15/sex/gp for toxicokinetics 
Rat 
10/sex/gp  
+ 9/sex/gp for toxicokinetics 
Rat 
10/sex/gp  
+ 6/sex/gp toxicokinetics  
+ 5/sex/gp recovery 
Rat 
20/sex/gp  
+ 6/sex/gp toxicokinetics  
+ 5/sex/gp recovery 
Cyn.monkey 
4-5/sex/gp, of which a few 
animals for recovery 
Cyn.monkey 
3/sex/gp + 2/sex/gp for 
recovery 
Cyn.monkey 
4/sex/gp + 2/sex/gp for 
recovery 
Pivotal Repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Dose/Route 
(mg/kg/day1) 
SC2: 0, 3, 10, 30, 60/903 
Per 48 hours 
Duration 
NOEL/ NOAEL1 
(mg/kg/day) 
13 weeks 
< 3 mg/kg/48 h 
IV (infusion): 0, 3, 8, 
16, 24 
28 days 
NOAEL: 3 
SC: 0, 1, 3, 10, 30 per 
48 hours 
13 weeks  
+ 4 weeks recovery 
NOEL: 1 mg/kg/48 h 
SC: 0, 0.5, 2.5, 12.5 per 
48 hours 
6 months  
+ 8 weeks recovery 
M: NOEL 0.5 mg/kg/48 h 
F: NOAEL 0.5 mg/kg/48 h 
IV (infusion): 0, 3, 8, 
24/164 
28 days  
+ 4 weeks recovery 
SC: 0, 0.25, 1, 4 
SC: 0, 0.25, 1, 4-165 
3 months  
+ 4 weeks recovery 
12 months  
+ 8 weeks recovery 
NOAEL: 8 
NOAEL: 1 
NOAEL: 1 
1 Unless stated otherwise 
2 Oily crystal suspension was used in subcutaneous administration, unless stated otherwise 
3 From week 8 onwards, 90 mg/kg/48 h was administered instead of 60 mg/kg/48 h. 
4 Due to severe toxicity at 24 mg/kg/day, treatment was stopped after 2-4 days. After 3-week wash-out, the animals were 
dosed with 16 mg/kg/day. 
5 The high dose was increased or decreased during the experiment due to missing or severe toxicity 
The  most  prominent  systemic  effects  such  as  restlessness,  hyperactivity,  ataxia,  aggression,  and,  at 
very high dosages, self-mutilation, were observed and are mainly related to the mechanism of action. 
Treatment-related mortality occurred at exposures, which were at least 24 times the expected maximal 
8/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human  exposure  based  on  AUC  values.  In  mice  and  rats,  but  not  in  monkeys,  decreases  in  body 
weight  gain  and  increases  in  food  and  water  consumption  were  observed  at  exposures  generally 
several  times  higher  than  the  human  exposure.  In  some  rat  studies,  increased  food  consumption 
occurred  at  lower  dosages  than  a  decreased  body  weight  gain.  Spillage  due  to  restlessness  probably 
played a part. In rats, enlarged ovaries with an increased number of corpora lutea, stromal activation in 
the uterus, and a decreased pituitary weight can be considered a dopamine-agonist effect, due to the 
inhibition of the prolactin secretion.  
Increased  levels  of  ALT  and  AST  were  observed  in  rats,  primarily  in  females,  from  an  exposure  of 
about  6  times  the  human  exposure.  No  histopathological  changes  were  reported  in  the  liver  of  rats. 
The  relevance  of  the  increased  AST  values  in  female  rats  was  questioned.  Upon  request,  the 
Applicant  has  submitted  individual  data  on  relative  liver  weight  of  females  at  all  dose  groups  and 
histopathology  of  high  dose  and  control  female  groups  (histopathology  of  mid  and  low  dose  group 
animals was not performed since the liver was not considered as a target organ).  The medium values 
of  relative  liver  weights  did  not  differ  among  dose  groups.  When  analysing  the  individual  values 
presented a correlation between increased AST levels and relative liver weight could not be identified. 
Also,  the  (mild)  histopathological  findings  in  the  liver  of  high  dose  group  females  did  not  show 
increased incidence or severity as compared to controls.  
In monkeys, only in 1 study minimal centrilobular vacuolation was observed in the liver. No increases 
in liver enzymes were observed in monkeys. 
The  data  presented  seems  to  suggest  that  the  liver  should  not  be  considered  as  a  target  organ  for 
rotigotine-induced toxicity. 
Severe decreases in blood pressure and a decreased heart rate were observed in 1 monkey study, at a 
very high intravenous dose only. 
In rats, the lowest NOAEL in the subcutaneous pivotal studies was 0.5 mg/kg/48 h. In monkeys, the 
lowest NOAEL in the pivotal studies was 1 mg/kg/day. In both species, at these dosages, the exposure 
was approximately equal to, or slightly higher than the human exposure based on both AUC and Cmax 
data. The critical effects were mostly effects on body weight and food consumption in rats, and CNS 
effects in monkeys. 
Effects  on  clinical  biochemistry  for  some  parameters  in  long-term  studies  in  rodents  are  partly 
significant, but do not show a clear dose-or time- dependency and were mainly reversible during the 
recovery  period.  No  such  effects  were  determined  in  monkeys.  Because  of  the  absence  of  dose-  or 
time-dependency  and  the  lack  of  consistency  over  different  studies  in  the  same  species  and  over 
different species, these effects were not regarded as relevant to humans. 
(Regarding toxicokinetics, see above section “Phamacokinetics”) 
•  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
The mutagenic potential of rotigotine was evaluated in vitro in bacterial and mammalian cell systems 
and  in  vivo  in  mouse  bone  marrow  and  rat  hepatocytes  for  UDS  analysis.  A  positive  effect  was 
observed in vitro in the mouse lymphoma assay where at the higher levels of rotigotine a clastogenic 
effect was observed, as revealed by increased mutations frequency in small colonies. In vivo studies 
did  not  reveal  genotoxic  potential.  Since  rotigotine  was  cytotoxic  in  this  system  and  no  in  vivo 
mutagenic/clastogenic  effect  were  observed,  the  relevance  of  the  isolated  positive  in  vitro  effect  is 
hard to evaluate and its relevance may be very low. 
9/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of rotigotine was studied in rats and mice in 104-week studies. 
In  mice  (subcutaneous  doses  up  to  30mg/kg/48h),  no  test  substance-related  neoplastic  effects  were 
described and rotigotine can be considered as non-carcinogenic.  
In rats (subcutaneous doses up to 3mg/kg/48h), Leydig cell hyperplasia and testis tumours were seen 
in all treated males. Uterus tumours were seen in mid- and high-dose females. A general decrease was 
noted in the incidence of tumours of the mammary gland. In both sexes, there was a decrease in the 
incidence of tumours in the pituitary (adenoma of the pars distalis). These tumor types are related to 
the  decreased  prolactin  levels  induced  by  rotigotine,  similarly  to  other  drugs  of  the  same  class.  The 
accumulated mechanistic information of the compounds of the same class as well as the evidence that 
these events are not relevant for man lead also to the conclusion that rotigotine does not seem to pose a 
carcinogenic risk for man. 
The  local/tumorigenic  effects  of  the  patch  itself  have  also  been  analysed  in  a  repeated  application 
study in mini pigs. The study revealed that there is a potential for some inflammatory reaction when 
the patch is applied successively in the same site, but this reaction is reduced when sites of application 
are changed at every application. Neoplastic lesions at the site of application were not observed. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The  toxicokinetic  studies  have  shown  that  rotigotine  and/or  its  metabolites  crossed  the  placental 
barrier with highest concentrations associated with the fetus, fetal liver, placenta and chorioallentoic 
placenta. The reproductive toxicity of rotigotine was studied in Segment I  studies in  mouse and rat, 
Segment II studies in mouse, rat and rabbit, and in Segment III studies in rat. 
No substance-related findings were seen in rabbits. At high doses, rotigotine reduced the motility of 
the spermatozoa in rats, but none of the tested doses influenced the fertility of these animals. In rats, 
dopamine agonists, such as rotigotine, have a well-known effect on prolactin secretion. In the Segment 
I study in female rats, none of the rats became pregnant. Also in the Segment II study in rats, only 50 
% of the animals at intermediate and none of the rats at the high dose became pregnant.  In rats and 
mice, embryo-toxicity was seen at materno-toxic doses (postimplantation loss, embryo resorptions). In 
rats and rabbits, no teratogenic findings were seen. In one rabbit study, hyperflexion of the paws and 
crossed  legs  (bilateral)  were  noted  in  one  litter  at  high  dose  (25  mg/kg).  The  values  presented 
regarding historical control data support the argument that the limb malformations as well as the pre-
implantation loss in he control group of the rabbit study were within the historical control range. It is 
therefore  difficult  to  conclude  about  causal  relationship  of  malformed  limbs  with  the  treatment.  In 
mice  at  the  highest  dose  of  90  mg/kg/48  hours,  there  was  an  increased  incidence  of  missing 
ossification  of  the  talus,  incomplete  ossification  of  the  sternebrae  and  total  skeletal  retardations.  No 
increase  in  incidence  of  malformations  or  variations  was  observed.  In  the  Segment  III  study,  pups 
from  female  rats  exposed  to  rotigotine,  in  equal  or  slightly  higher  doses  than  the  human  exposure, 
showed  a  reduced  auditory  startle  reflex,  pupillary  reflex  or  passive  avoidance  test.  In  addition,  the 
time-point of the eye and ear opening, cleavage of the balanopreputial gland and the vaginal opening 
were significantly delayed. In the dams, a suppressed milk production, leading to agalactia, was also 
observed.    The  delay  in  development  was  completely  reversible  and  there  was  no  influence  on  the 
development  of  the  F2  generation.  A  special  study  design  was  chosen  for  the  conduct  of  a  female 
fertility study in mice with administration of a ‘safe dose’ determined in a pre-study from mating to 
implantation,  however,  only  one  of  the  female  mice  treated  with  rotigotine  became  pregnant.  This 
effect  is  probably  also  due  to  the  complex  influence  of  dopamine  agonists  on  secretion  of  sex 
hormones  such  as  prolactin  and  the  susceptibility  of  rodents  during  mating  and/or  implantation  in 
general.  
All  these  effects  are  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  the  compound.  The  risk  for  human  is  unknown. 
Rotigotine should not be used during pregnancy. A decreased milk production, inhibition of lactation 
10/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is  expected.  Studies  in  rats  have  shown  that  rotigotine  and/or  its  metabolite(s)  is  excreted  in  breast 
milk. In the absence of human data, breast-feeding should be discontinued. 
Studies in juvenile animals were not conducted. 
•  Local tolerance 
An extensive program on local tolerance and sensitization was conducted, including: (1) phototoxicity 
studies in guinea pigs (patch), (2, 3) studies with administration of clinically relevant patches in guinea 
pigs  and  rats,  and  (4)  irritation  and  sensitization  studies  in  rabbits,  guinea  pigs  and  monkeys  via 
transdermal and subcutaneous routes (solution). 
In  studies  on  local  tolerance  or  sensitization,  rotigotine  did  not  reveal  any  test  substance-specific 
findings compared to placebo. The human-relevant silicone patches were evaluated in local tolerance 
studies up to 4 weeks and in sensitization studies (modified Buehler test, photosensitization) and in a 
study  on  phototoxicity.  All  these  studies  were  conducted  in  comparison  to  corresponding  placebo 
patches. Overall, effects due to the application and removal procedure of patches were identified after 
repeated patch administration to the same sites. Therefore, a rotating application scheme of rotigotine 
patches in human use is strongly recommended. In other studies rotigotine substance was administered 
in different solvents or suspensions in comparison to standard positive control substances and vehicle 
controls.  In  these  studies,  rotigotine  did  not  reveal  any  substance-specific  sensitization  or  toxic 
properties. Rotigotine is not an UV-absorbing compound. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Dependence:  
Three  studies  to  assess  the  abuse  potential  of  rotigotine,  such  as  cocaine  discrimination  in  rats  and 
monkeys and a study on the effects on i.v. cocaine self-administration in Rhesus monkeys have been 
conducted. Rotigotine showed potent stimulant-like effects, but these effects are sufficiently different 
from those of cocaine in primates. The abuse potential of rotigotine in humans is considered to be low. 
This  assumption  is  supported  by  data  obtained  from  the  broad  receptor  screen  and  the  specific 
pharmacokinetic properties related to the patch formulation that does not result in significant plasma 
level fluctuations. 
Interaction studies with L-dopa/carbidopa: 
In  rats  and  monkeys,  toxic  interaction  was  observed  between  rotigotine  and  L-dopa/carbidopa.  In 
monkeys,  the  number  of  animals  showing  restlessness  seemed  to  be  increased  in  animals  receiving 
rotigotine  and  L-dopa/carbidopa,  compared  to  animals  receiving  either  substance  alone.  This  can  be 
expected, since all these substances are dopamine agonists. 
Immunotoxicity: 
As  assessed  by  the  Plaque  Forming  Cell  assay  with  sheep  red  blood  cells,  there  was  no  effect  of 
rotigotine on the T cell-dependent IgM and IgG antibody response and on spleen weight. 
Metabolites: 
The phase 1 and phase 2 metabolites were found to be present in all species. Therefore, the potential 
toxicity of both metabolites has been sufficiently studied with the current non-clinical testing program. 
Impurities: 
The  active  active  substance  contains  the  following  impurities:  dethienylethyl  rotigotine,  depropyl 
rotigotine, dithienylethyl rotigotine, rotigotine toluenesulfonic acid ester, rotigotine thienylethyl ether,  
ethyl  rotigotine  and  acetyl  rotigotine.  No  specific  preclinical  studies  have  been  performed  on  these 
impurities. Desthienylethyl rotigotine and despropyl rotigotine are metabolites and therefore qualified. 
Dithienylethyl  rotigotine,  rotigotine  toluenesulfonic  acid  ester  and  rotigotine  thienylethyl  ether  are 
qualified in the amounts found in the preclinical batches (0.38%, 0.87-0.95%, 0.14-71%, respectively). 
Ethyl rotigotine and acetyl rotigotine are qualified by the limit of 0.15%. 
11/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicological properties of the ingredients: 
All  ingredients  in  patches  for  human  use,  which  were  not  used  in  toxicological  studies  were  tested 
according to guidelines by the manufacturer of the ingredients or are compendial ingredients.  
Rotigotine  patches  produced  for  clinical  use  are  a  matrix-type  transdermal  system.  Neither  the 
adhesives  nor  its  extracts  were  sensitizing    in  guinea  pigs  or  produced  effects  in  a  bacterial  reverse 
mutation  assay  or  in  a  cytotoxicity  assay  with  mammalian  cell  culture.  Material  extracts  were  not 
pyrogenic upon injection into rabbits. No adverse reactions were produced by any extract administered 
by any route in either species tested in the U.S.P. Class V test. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Assessment of potential risks to the environment is a step-wise, phased procedure. The environmental 
risk  assessment  consists  of  two  phases.  The  first  phase  (Phase  I)  assesses  the  exposure  of  the 
environment to the active substance and/or its metabolites. Phase II consists in environmental fate and 
effects analysis. 
Phase I 
The risk posed to the environment by the use of rotigotine patch has been initially calculated by the 
applicant  on  the  basis  of  the  draft  2003  EMEA  ERA  guideline.  With  a  Predicted  Environmental 
Concentration  in  surface  (PECSURFACEWATER)  of  0.0032µg/l,  i.e.  lower  than  0.01µg/l,  the  applicant 
claimed an exemption of phase II studies. However, the calculation used a market penetration factor 
(Fpen) of 0.035%. When, the market penetration factor (Fpen) is defined by default at 1%, the PEC 
action limit is exceeded.  Furthermore the disposal of the patch into waste should be considered as it is 
expected that it will correspond to a disposal of the test compound into the solid waste. Therefore, a 
revised  ERA  according  to  the  draft  guideline  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal 
products  for  human  use    (CHMP/SWP/447/00/draft)  was  required  as  well  as  justification  of  the 
estimation  of  annual  consumption  of  Neupro  in  the  EU  should  be  justified.  In  addition,  a  water-
sediment-study, studies concerning toxicity to microorganisms, algae, daphnids and fish as well as a 
bioaccumulation study with fish were requested.  
The applicant submitted a revised ERA. 
Phase II 
Neupro is a transdermal patch. About half the dosage will be discarded in the waste. Based on disease 
prevalence of about 0.225% and an estimated market share of 10%, the Fpen is set at 0.0225%. Based 
on the reported estimated sales in 2011 in five major EU countries the Fpen is also 0.022%. However, 
based  on  a  maximum  market  share  the  PECsurfacewater  for  the  total  residue  is  10  ng/l.  This  is  the 
PECsurfacewater to be used for the PEC/PNEC assessment. (PNEC= predicted no-effect concentration) 
The  EC50  (effective  concentration  50%)  for  activated  sludge  is  1825  mg/l.  The  risk  to  activated 
sludge is negligible. Rotigotine is not readily biodegradable. 
Based on the provided information, the environmental risk assessment could not be completed; 
Information on ecotoxicity, adsorption, and fate in water/sediment systems is lacking, 
− 
−  The waste stage has not been assessed. 
Upon  CHMP  request,  the  applicant  committed  to  conduct  the  following  studies  on  Environmental 
Risk  Assessment  (ERA)  according 
the  draft  EMEA  guideline 
CHMP/SWP/4447/00. Studies will be reported before the end of the third quarter of 2006. 
to  Phase  2  Tier  A  of 
−  A  soil/sediments  adsorption  study  according  to  either  OECD  106,  OECD  121  or  OPPTS 
835.1110 (the method used will be justified), 
−  Toxicity to algae (OECD201), 
−  Daphnia reproduction study (OECD 211) 
−  Fish early life stage (OECD 210) 
−  A  study  on  transformation  on  aquatic  sediments  (OECD  308)  will  be  performed,  if 
PEC/PNECsurfacewater is >1. 
12/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The ERA will be refined according to the results of the above-mentioned studies. The environmental 
risk related to the waste stage of the product will be addressed in the refined ERA based on leaching 
rates of the drug from the patches.  
If  necessary  according  to  the  refined  Phase  2  Tier  A  ERA,  the  Phase  2  Tier  B  study  on 
bioaccumulation in fish (OECD 305e) will be initiated. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Rotigotine  is  a  D3-selective  dopaminergic  agonist  with  affinity  for  D2-receptors  (0.7  and  13,5  nM, 
respectively;  Ki-ratio  D2/D3  of  19).  Results  of  preclinical  studies  demonstrated  that  rotigotine  is 
effective in animal models of Parkinson disease where it restores locomotor activity. Receptor down-
regulation  and  the  development  of  tolerance  as    with  the  chronic  use  of  a  D2  receptor  agonist,  like 
pergolide is anticipated. Rotigotine is well tolerated in vivo and essentially free of unwanted ancillary 
pharmacological,  electrocardiographic,  and  behavioral  effects.  Pharmacokinetics  of  rotigotine 
appeared to be approximately linear over the range investigated.  
Non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  in  MPTP-lesioned  animals  have  not  been 
performed,  but  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies 
rats  with 
coadministration of rotigotine and L-DOPA were performed. The co-administration of rotigotine and a 
dose  of  L-DOPA  that  has  no  effect  on  its  own  leads  to  additive  effects  on  turning  behaviour.  The 
coadministration of rotigotine and a dose of L-DOPA known to induce sensitization causes the same 
degree of rotations and a similar development of sensitization as L-DOPA alone. Overall, rotigotine 
does  not  affect  the  efficacy  of  L-DOPA,  but  low  doses  of  L-DOPA  may  enhance  the  efficacy  of 
rotigotine or vice versa. 
in  6-OHDA  hemilesioned 
In  toxicity  studies,  the  major  effects  were  associated  with  the  dopamine  agonist  related 
pharmacodynamic effects and the consequent decrease of prolactin secretion.  
After a single dose of rotigotine, binding to melanin-containing tissues (i.e., eyes) in the pigmented rat 
and monkey was evident, but was slowly cleared over the 14-day observation period. 
Retinal degeneration was observed by transmission microscopy at a dose equivalent to 5.6 times the 
maximum recommended human dose on a mg/m² basis in a 3-month study in albino rats. The effects 
were  more  pronounced  in  female  rats.  Additional  studies  to  further  evaluate  the  specific  pathology 
have not been performed. Retinal degeneration was not observed during the routine histopathological 
evaluation  of  the  eyes  in  any  of  the  toxicology  studies  in  any  species  used.  The  relevance  of  these 
findings to humans is not known. 
Increased  levels  of  ALT  and  AST  were  observed  in rats,  primarily  in  females,  from  an  exposure  of 
about  6  times  the  human  exposure.  Later  data  on  liver  weights  and  histopathology  submitted  upon 
request suggests that the liver should not be considered as a target organ for toxicity.  
Rotigotine did not induce gene mutations in the Ames test, but did show effects in the in vitro Mouse 
Lymphoma  Assay  with  metabolic  activation  and  weaker  effects  without  metabolic  activation.  This 
mutagenic effect could be attributed to a clastogenic effect of rotigotine. This effect was not confirmed 
in vivo in the Mouse Micronucleus Test in the rat Unscheduled DNA Synthesis (UDS) test. Since it 
ran  more  or  less  parallel  with  a  decreased  relative  total  growth  of  the  cells,  it  may  be  related  to  a 
cytotoxic effect of the compound. Therefore, the relevance of the one positive in vitro mutagenicity 
test is not known. 
Rotigotine did not influence male fertility in rats, but clearly reduced female fertility in rats and mice, 
because of the effects on prolactin levels which are particularly significant in rodents. Rotigotine was 
embryotoxic in rats and mice at materno-toxic doses. Rotigotine should not be used during pregnancy. 
Inhibition  of  lactation  is  expected  and  rotigotine  was  excreted  in  breast  milk  in  rats.  Breast-feeding 
should be discontinued. 
13/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on local tolerance studies, effects due to the application and removal procedure of patches were 
identified  after  repeated  patch  administration  to  the  same  sites.  Therefore,  a  rotating  application 
scheme of rotigotine patches in human use is strongly recommended. 
The environmental risk assessment could not be completed. The Applicant was asked to further assess 
the  environmental  risk  and  has  committed  to  perform  studies  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment 
(ERA)  according  to  Phase  2  Tier  A  of  the  draft  guideline  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of 
medicinal products for human use  (CHMP/SWP/447/00/draft).  The ERA will be refined according to 
the  results  of  the  studies.  The  Environmental  Risk  related  to  the  waste  stage  of  the  product  will  be 
addressed  in  the  refined  ERA  based  on  leaching  rates  of  the  drug  from  the  patches.    If  necessary 
according  to  the  refined  Phase  2  Tier  A  ERA,  the  Phase  2  Tier  B  study  on  bioaccumulation  in  fish 
(OECD 305e) will be initiated. 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Rotigotine  is  a  new  chemical  substance  belonging  to  the  group  of  non-ergolinic  dopamine  agonists 
and  developed  to  treat  Parkinson's  disease.  Due  to  low  bioavailability  of  this  substance  via  the  oral 
route  and  suitable  physico-chemical  properties  for  transdermal  application,  rotigotine  has  been 
developed for transdermal administration using patch technology.  
Initially,  an  acrylic-based  transdermal  patch  was  used.  Later  a  silicone-based  formulation  with  a 
decreased drug load and higher relative bioavailability was developed. The silicone-based formulation 
is the final formulation. The major Phase 2b and all Phase 3 trials used the silicone formulation (4.5mg 
of rotigotine in each 10cm2) that is proposed for marketing. 
The  clinical  development  program  for  the  silicone  patch  formulation  of  rotigotine  in  early-stage 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease comprised 7 clinical trials in Phases 2 and 3, of which 6 were placebo-
controlled. 
The  4  trials  in  Phase  2a,  of  which  3  were  placebo-controlled,  had  a  maximum  exposure  to  trial 
medication  of  4  weeks.  The  Phase  2b  dose-response  trial  had  maximum  treatment  duration  of  3 
months and the exposure to drug in the double-blind portion of the 2 Phase 3 trials was up to 6 months 
in SP512 and up to 9 months in SP513. Open-label extensions of both Phase 3 trials were ongoing; 
however, all subjects had been enrolled by the clinical cutoff date of 31 Dec 2003. The uncontrolled 
Phase 1 trial SP630 was conducted in subjects with early-stage Parkinson’s disease with a maximum 
exposure to trial medication of 5 weeks. 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
It should be noted that in the clinical assessment doses are expressed as initial dose contained in 
the  patches  while  product  information  refers  to  the  apparent  dose  (calculated  as  difference 
between initial rotigotine dosage and residual rotigotine amount in the patch after application).  
The  nominal  (apparent  dose)  patches  of  2,  4,  6  and  8  mg  of  rotigotine  /24  hours  contain 
respectively 4.5 mg, 9.0 mg, 13.5 mg and 18.0 mg of rotigotine. 
14/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Rotigotine  is  a  lipophylic  dopamine-agonist  which  is  rapidly  metabolised  after  oral  application  in 
rodents.  In  order  to  avoid  the  first-pass  effect,  a  rotigotine  patch  for  transdermal  application  was 
developed. 
Analytical  methods  were  based  upon  liquid  chromatography/mass  spectrometry/mass  spectrometry 
(LC-MS/MS). 
In  24  clinical  studies,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  final  product,  the  rotigotine  base  silicone 
patch, was studied. Doses varied between 2.25-18 mg in healthy volunteers (11 studies) and between 
4.5-54 mg in Parkinson’s Disease patients (10 studies). Two studies with 4.5 mg rotigotine doses were 
performed in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction, who did not suffer from Parkinson’s Disease. 
One  study  was  carried  out  in  patients  with  restless-legs  syndrome  (9  mg).  Pharmacokinetic 
interactions  between  rotigotine  and  Parkinson’s  disease  commonly  prescribed  medications  like 
levodopa,  carbidopa,  and  domperidone  and  a  non-specific  CYP  substrate  and  inhibitor  cimetidine 
were studied in healthy volunteers. In all studies, rotigotine patches were applied for 24 hrs. 
In  several  pilot  studies,  rotigotine  was  administered  intravenously  in  advanced  Parkinson’s  disease 
patients,  and  some  plasma-concentration  time  curves  following  intravenous  administration  were 
reported.   
•  Absorption and Bioavailability/Bioequivalence 
The  approximated  in  vivo  absorption of  rotigotine after  single-dose  application  was  obtained  by  the 
Wagner  Nelson  method.  The  absorption  pattern  of  drug  released  by  the  transdermal  system  follows 
apparent zero order kinetics.  
Mass balance of radioactive rotigotine has been determined. Only 46.1% of the applied dose has been 
potentially  absorbed  (apparent  dose)  of  which  94.6%  have  been  recovered  in  urine  and  faeces.  The 
studies confirm that only 46.1% of the dose is released from the patch and absolute bioavailability is 
37%. 
Two different pilot patch formulations were developed, one based on a silicone formulation and one 
based  on  an  acrylic  formulation.  The  bioavailability  studies  demonstrated  that  the  bioavailability  of 
rotigotine was approximately 3 times higher for the silicone patch compared to the acrylic-type patch 
(based on the ratio of AUCs). Thus, the silicone-based patch was considered to be suitable for further 
clinical  development.  Initially,  in the  patch  manufacturing process rotigotine free base was liberated 
from its hydrochloride salt. Once the free base became available in crystalline form the manufacturing 
method was modified  by replacing the hydrochloride salt with rotogotine free base as starting material 
. Silicone patches obtained by both methods  have shown to be bioequivalent. 
The equivalence of 6 different application sites (abdomen, flank, upper arm, shoulder, thigh, and hip) 
in subjects with early-stage, idiopathic Parkinson’s disease has been studied but not demonstrated. The 
90% CI of the ratio between different application sites ranged from 0.72-1.41%. However they were 
sufficiently  similar  so  that  this  can  support  rotation  of  application  site,  given  that  the  effect  of  anti-
parkinson agents is not strictly related to constant high levels but tolerate some fluctuation as long as 
the levels do not fall below a minimum.  
Normalisation of plasma concentrations and parameters for the apparent dose has been questioned but 
the applicant states that it has not been used for studies involving pharmacokinetic comparisons. 
Apparent dose 
Another  method  of  assessment  of  individual  bio-availability  was  estimation  of  apparent  dose. 
Apparent  dose  was  calculated  as  difference  between  initial  rotigotine  dosage  and  residual  rotigotine 
amount in the patch after application. The actual dose was 0.45 mg per square centimeter rotigotine 
patch in all strengths. 
15/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
In  vitro,  rotigotine  binds  to  plasma  proteins  to  an  extent  of  91.6±1.1%,  mainly  mediated  by  serum 
albumin (81%). These in vitro data obtained at supra-therapeutic concentrations were confirmed in 2 
Phase 1 trials in vivo, which showed mean plasma protein binding of 89 to 92%. 
The large volume of distribution at steady-state of 84 l/kg indicates wide distribution of rotigotine into 
tissues.  This  was  supported  by  pre-clinical  data  showing  a  rapid  and  wide  distribution  throughout 
tissues in rats and a rapid and wide distribution in the brain of monkeys. 
•  Metabolism and Elimination 
Rotigotine is extensively metabolised. Urine excretion of unconjugated rotigotine is negligible.  
In  vitro  investigations  in  human  liver  microsomes  showed  that  rotigotine  is  primarily  converted  by 
dealkylation to a despropyl- or desthienylethyl-metabolite or by monohydroxylation. CYP2C19 is the 
major CYP450 isoform involved in the metabolism of rotigotine. Despropyl and desthienylethyl phase 
1  metabolites  undergo  further  conjugation  with  either  sulphate  or  glucuronic  acid.  The  rotigotine-
conjugates are not biological active. 
With a clearance of 630 l/h, rotigotine can be regarded as a high clearance drug. The plasma terminal 
half-life after transdermal application is 5 to 7 hours. 
After intravenous application of radiolabelled rotigotine, approximately 71% of the radioactivity was 
eliminated  in  urine  and  23%  in  faeces.  Rotigotine  and  its  metabolites  are  mainly  excreted  in  urine 
(about  70  %  of  the  total  dose),  and  to  lesser  extent  into  bile  and  faeces.  There  were  no  signs  for 
enterohepatic cycling of the conjugated metabolites. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality was shown with PK parameters Ctrough, AUC, and Cmax of rotigotine up to an 
applied  dose  of  18.0mg/day  for  healthy  subjects  as  well  as  subjects  with  early-stage  Parkinson’s 
disease. 
The  metabolic  pattern  of  rotigotine  does  not  indicate  that  this  drug  is  prone  to  self-induced 
metabolism.  Furthermore,  experience  drawn  from  pharmacokinetic  data  from  phase  2  and  phase  3 
clinical  trials  does  not  support  the  hypothesis  of  time  dependency.  The  mean  plasma  concentration 
levels  measured  at  different  dose  levels  indicate  dose  proportionality  and  the  steady-state 
concentrations remained stable during the 6-month maintenance period. 
• 
Inter-variability 
The  inter-individual  variability  in  rotigotine  exposure  after  patch  application  was  significant.  Inter-
individual variability of the rotigotine AUC’s was estimated between 40-70%. Variability in rotigotine 
levels  was  only  partly  explained  by  body  weight.  Renal  and  hepatic  functions  were    no  significant 
covariates in population PK models. 
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
Plasma concentration-time profiles of unconjugated rotigotine were similar in subjects with different 
stages of renal impairment and healthy subjects. 
Plasma  concentrations  of  total  rotigotine  were  higher  in  subjects  with  severe  renal  impairment 
compared to healthy subjects. Compared with healthy subjects, plasma levels of total despropyl- and 
desthienylethyl- metabolites determined 23.5 hours after patch application increased in subjects with 
severe  renal  impairment  by  8.4-  and  5.9-fold,  respectively.  Similar  data  were  observed  in  end-stage 
renal impairment patients requiring dialysis.  
16/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  data  for  the  exposure  to  the  active  compound  (unconjugated  rotigotine)  and  since  the 
metabolites  have  been  demonstrated  to  be  ineffective  both  in  efficacy  and  safety  terms,  no  dose 
adjustment is necessary in subjects with different stages of renal impairment. However, rotigotine dose 
adjustments seemed to be necessary in patients with acute onset of renal dysfunction. Rotigotine was 
not removed from the body by extracorporeal or haemo-dialysis. 
Impaired hepatic function 
Results  show  that  mean  plasma  concentration-time  curves  were  similar  in  hepatic  impaired  and 
healthy  subjects.  The  statistical  analysis  of  primary  pharmacokinetic  parameters  did  not  show 
significant differences in the exposure to unconjugated rotigotine in both subject groups. 
Plasma levels of total rotigotine were slightly higher in subjects with hepatic impairment. There was 
no relevant difference in the urinary excretion of unconjugated rotigotine, whereas the amount of total 
rotigotine  was  higher  in  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment.  Excretion  of  total  despropyl-and 
desthienylethyl rotigotine was higher in hepatic impaired subjects compared with healthy subjects. 
Based  on  these  pharmacokinetic  data,  no  rotigotine  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  for  subjects  with 
moderate  hepatic  impairment.  However  no  data  concerning  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment 
has been provided. Therefore, appropriate statements in the SmPC have been included.  
Gender, race, weight and age 
Similar  rotigotine  plasma  concentrations  and  pharmacokinetic  parameters  AUCss  and  Cmax,ss  were 
observed  in  female  and  male  subjects  with  Parkinson’s  disease  treated  with  the  highest  proposed 
therapeutic dose in trial (18.0mg). 
The pharmacokinetic profile of rotigotine was characterized in Black compared to Caucasian subjects 
as  well  as  in  Japanese  subjects  compared  to  Caucasian  subjects.  No  interethnic  differences  were 
observed  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rotigotine  in  Japanese,  Black,  and  Caucasian  subjects, 
following body weight normalisation. 
The  comparison  of  plasma  concentration  data  determined  in  2  Phase  3  trials  addressed  the  possible 
influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of rotigotine. No differences in plasma concentration were 
observed between patients <65 years and >65 years with early-stage Parkinson’s disease.  
However,  apparent  dose  was  significantly  lower  in  patients  (±33%)  in  comparison  with  healthy 
subjects  (±50%).  These  data  might  indicate  that  both  absorption  and  metabolism/excretion  were 
diminished  in  the  patients  group.  The  applicant  explained  that  it  is  known  from  the  literature  that 
absorption through the skin and renal excretion is diminishes with age. The lower absorption in elderly 
is  “compensated”  by  lower  excretion  rate,  and  rotigotine  exposure  was  therefore  similar  in  older 
patients and younger healthy volunteers. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro,  several  CYP  isoforms  are  involved  in  the  biotransformation  of  rotigotine  in  human  liver, 
including CYP 2C19. The data indicate a low in vivo drug interaction potential with respect to CYP 
mediated  drug  metabolism.  Rotigotine  was  not  a  substrate  of  P-glycoprotein  in  vitro  and  did  not 
interfere with the drug transport of digoxin. 
In  vitro  data  support  a  limited  package  of  in  vivo  drug-drug  interaction  studies.  Therefore,  the 
applicant performed interaction studies with cimetidine (a non-specific CYP 450 isoform substrate and 
inhibitor),  domperidone  because  of  its  use  in  nausea  and  vomiting  induced  by  rotigotine  and  with 
carbidopa, levodopa, because of its concomitant use. Studies demonstrated no relevant change in the 
pharmacokinetics of rotigotine in the presence of these drugs. 
Since several sulfotransferases and only two UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT1A9 and UGT2B15) 
are  involved  in  the  metabolism  and  maximum  concentrations  of  rotigotine  are  well  below  the 
saturating concentrations for these enzymes, it seems unlikely that the co-administration of other drugs 
metabolized by conjugation might have an influence on the plasma concentration of rotigotine because 
other enzymes can take over the metabolism. Low affinity of rotigotine to these enzymes precludes in 
principle the possibility of rotigotine inhibiting other drugs metabolism. 
17/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Rotigotine  was  characterized  as  a  typical  dopamine  agonist  in  non-clinical  studies.  There  was  no 
attempt to further characterize its pharmacology in human studies. 
Rotigotine inhibits prolactin secretion in the range of what is expected for a dopamine agonist. 
The effects of rotigotine treatment on prolactin levels were determined in a healthy subjects trial (14 
day treatment with 4.5mg daily) as well as in phase 3 trial SP512. In healthy subject, prolactin levels 
decreased  after  application  of  the  first  rotigotine  patch  from  13.7ng/mL  to  7.2ng/mL.  Mean 
concentration remained at  a low level until application of the last patch. In trial SP512, for subjects 
receiving placebo, the mean prolactin serum levels were between 6.4 and 7.7ng/mL and decreased to 
between 4.8 and 5.4ng/mL during the maintenance period after application of the 13.5mg patch.  
Two clinical trials were conducted in healthy subjects to address specific safety issues regarding skin 
tolerability of the rotigotine transdermal patch. These trials are described in detail in the safety section. 
Clinical efficacy  
The Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) is the most common and most frequently used 
assessment  scale  for  evaluating  treatment  responses  in  Parkinson’s  Disease.  For  early  Parkinson’s 
Disease, the part II (activity of daily life) and part III (motor-examination) of the UPDRS is accepted 
in the CHMP guideline as primary efficacy variable in early Parkinson’s Disease. 
The  Unified  Parkinson  Disease  Rating  Scale  (UPDRS)  is  a  compilation  of  various  Parkinson 
assessment scales, all measuring specific aspects of Parkinson’s Disease. The scale has five sections: 
Part  I  Mentation,  behaviour  and  mood,  measuring  the  psychological  aspects  of  the  disease  and/or 
treatment (Questions 1-4), Part II Activities of daily life (Questions 5-17), Part III Motor examination 
mainly  scoring  clinical  signs  and  symptoms  (question  18-31),  Part  IV  Complications  of  therapy 
(Dyskinesias Questions 32-35, Clinical fluctuations Questions 36-39, Other complications Questions 
40-42) and Part V the Modified Hoehn Yahr staging (Stage 0-5).   
Question in part I-IV are scored on a 0-4 point rating scale with the exception of some questions in 
part  IV  which  are  dichotomous  (complication  present/not  present).  The  Modified  Hoehn  Yahr  is 
primary a staging scale and less sensitive to change.  
•  Dose response studies 
The  table  below  summarizes  the  dose-finding  studies  that  were  conducted  in  rotigotine’s  clinical 
development.  The  most  robust  of  these  studies  is  study  506,  that  was  a  large  double-blind,  placebo 
controlled study. Main inclusion and exclusion criteria were similar to those of the phase 3 trials (see 
next section). 
18/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Completed, Phase 2 Dose-Ranging Trials of Rotigotine 
in Early-Stage, Idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease 
In study 506 the primary efficacy variable was the change in Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale 
(UPDRS) [Parts II+III] score from baseline visit (Visit 2, Day 0) to Week 11 (Visit 6, Day 77). Results 
are shown in the table below. The safety profile of rotigotine was determined by the analysis of the 
frequency and severity of adverse events (AE) and changes in vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECG), 
and clinical laboratory values recorded over the course of the trial. 
19/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  this  trial  rotigotine  was  efficacious  in  treating  the  manifestations  of  Parkinson’s  disease  as 
measured  by  UPDRS  Parts  II+III  scores.  At  the  end  of  treatment,  each  of  the  rotigotine  groups  had 
numerically better improvement compared to the placebo group. Statistically significant differences in 
change  from  baseline  in  the  UPDRS  Parts  II+III  scores  were  observed  between  the  rotigotine 
9.0mg/day,  13.5mg/day,  and  18.0mg/day  groups  and  placebo  (effect  estimates  were  -3.123  for 
9.0mg/day, -4.909 for 13.5mg/day, and -5.035 for 18.0mg/day for the full analysis set). 
In  general,  the  proportions  of  subjects  showing  ≥20%  and  ≥30%  decreases  in  the  UPDRS  (Parts 
II+III) increased with increasing rotigotine dose up to 13.5mg/day. Responder rates were similar in the 
rotigotine 13.5mg/day and 18.0mg/day dose groups. For the ≥20% responder group, the proportion of 
responders  was  57%  and  53%  for  the  13.5mg/day  and  18.0mg/day  dose  groups,  respectively.  The 
corresponding proportions for the ≥30% responder group were 41% and 44%. 
- 
- 
This main dose-finding study confirmed the suggestions of the early phase 2 trials: 
dose titration to target dose makes dopaminergic side-effects manageable; 
rotigotine is efficacious in controlling PD symptoms in the range of doses from 4.5 mg/d to 18 
mg/d; 
there is a dose-response effect that plateaus at 13.5 mg; 
the 18 mg/d is not distinguishable from the 13.5 mg/d; 
the effect size considering UPDRS part III which was not the primary endpoint (this was part 
II  +  III)  but  is  considered  here  because  it  is  a  more  frequently  used  in  routine  practice  is 
clinically relevant for doses ≥ 9 mg/d; 
secondary clinical outcomes were consistent with the primary endpoint. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
•  Main studies: Studies SP512 and SP513 
Following study SP506 results, 13.5mg/day and 18.0mg/day were investigated in the pivotal trials. In 
order to determine its efficacy and safety as an anti-Parkinsonian agent, rotigotine was evaluated in 2 
Phase 3 trials involving subjects with early-stage, idiopathic Parkinson’s disease. Trials SP512 (Part I) 
and SP513 (Part I) had virtually identical trial designs and endpoints.  Their designs are summarised 
below. 
20/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  
Design 
Main in-
/exclusion 
criteria  
Study arms 
Study 
periods  
Subjects will 
receive either 
Efficacy  
Primary 
variables  
Main 
secondary 
variables  
Safety  
Study SP512 
Randomised, multicenter (47), double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, parallel group design 
Summary study design of main studies  
Study SP513 
Randomised,  multicenter 
(81),  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled,  active  controlled,  parallel 
group design 
Patients with Early Parkinson’s Disease; Hoehn & Yahr stage ≤ 3; MMSE ≥ 24 (25);  
Stable on selegiline, anticholinergic agents or amandatine; No dopamine-agonists within 28 days 
of baseline; No L-dopa+ within 28 days of baseline, No L-dopa+ > 6 months in past; 
No skin hypersensitivity to adhesive transdermals; 
No severe co-morbidity. 
Placebo CDS 
Rotigotine CDS  
Run-in              ≈ 28 days  
Titration a, b          21 (+9) days            
Maintenance c  168 (+7) days  
De-escalation   up to 4 days 
Safety fu 28 (+7) days 
Placebo capsules TID / Placebo CDS  
Placebo capsules /Rotigotine CDS    
Ropinirole TID / Placebo CDS 
Run-in                   ≈ 28 days  
Titration a, b           ≤ 91(+39) days             
Maintenance c       168 (+7) days  
De-escalation       up to 12 days 
Safety fu 28 (+7) days 
Each subject was titrated to the optimal or maximal dose allowed: 
Placebo  patch  
Rotigotine 4.5, 9.0, 13.5 mg   
Placebo  
Rotigotine 4.5 , 9.0, 13.5 or 18  mgd   
Ropinirole  0.75, 1.5, 2.25, 3.0, 4.5, 6.0, 7.5, 9.0, 
12, 15, 18, 21, 24 mg/day  
EU: Responders defined as a subject with a ≥ 20% improvement in UPDRS II+III score from 
baseline.  
USA: change in UPDRS-II-III score from baseline. 
Change in UPDRS score II, III, CGI; 
Change in Hoehn-Yahr stage;  
QoL by EQ-5D; (Epworth scale score)e 
Adverse  events,  vital  signs,  QT-time,  viral  signs,  orthostatic  hypertension,  clinical  laboratory 
values . 
CDS: continuous delivery system 
Notes 
a number in parentheses indicates variation in time window allowed. 
b Each subject was titrated to the optimal or maximal dose allowed. 
c During titration back titration was allowed once. During the maintenance period back titration was not allowed. 
dRotigotine 4.5 mg has a patch size of 10 cm2, Rotigotine 9 mg = patch size of 20 cm2, Rotigotine 13.5 mg = 
patch size of 30 cm2, Rotigotine 18 mg = 2 patches of 20 cm2 each. 
e ( ) = not in study SP513  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Patients  were  included  in  these  trials  if  they  had  been  diagnosed  with  idiopathic  PD  of  ≤5  years  in 
duration, had a Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating  Scale (UPDRS)  motor score (Part III)  of ≥10 at 
baseline  (Visit  2),  had  a  Hoehn  &  Yahr  stage  ≤III;  had  at  least  2  or  more  of  the  following  cardinal 
signs: bradykinesia, resting tremor, rigidity, postural instability; and were without any other known or 
suspected cause of Parkinsonism. 
The following anti-Parkinson’s agents were allowed provided the dose was kept stable and the agents 
were used for at least 28 days prior baseline: MAO-B inhibitors, anticholinergic agents, NMDA (N-
methyl-D-Aspartate)–antagonists.  CNS  active  agents  allowed  were:  sedatives,  anti-depressants, 
hypnotics  and  anxiolytics,  again  provided  the  dose  was  kept  stable  and  the  agents  were  used  for  at 
least 28 days prior baseline. 
The anti-emetics allowed were restricted to non-dopamine-agonists. 
21/41 
EMEA 2006 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Not allowed were dopamine-agonist /-antagonist, L-dopa, COMT, MAO-A inhibitors and other agents 
interfering with dopamine dynamics. Basically these concerned concurrent medication, among which 
carbidopa/levodopa,  dopamine-agonists,  MAO-inhibitors,  anti-dopaminergic  antiemetics.  When 
subjects required these treatments they were discontinued from the trial.   
Treatments 
After  a  run-in  period  of  about  28  days,  patients  entered  a  dose  escalation  phase  where  they  were 
titrated to the optimal or maximal dose allowed. The optimal dose was defined as the dose that gave 
the maximal reduction in Parkinson’s disease symptoms without intolerable side effects. The optimal 
dose  was  determined  following  discussion  of  patient  and  investigator.  During  the  dose  escalation 
phase  back  titration  was  allowed  once.  The  duration  of  the  dose  escalation  period  differed 
considerable between studies SP512 and SP513 due to the much slower titration schedule of subjects 
receiving ropinirole in study SP513.  
After  the  optimal  dose  was  established  the  patient  entered  the  maintenance  phase  lasting  24  weeks. 
The dose was kept constant and if back-titration occurred during this period a subject was withdrawn. 
At  the  end  of  the  study  a  4  (study  SP512)  to  12  day  (study  SP513)  blinded  de-escalation  followed.  
Finally there was an open label off study drug follow-up of 4 weeks for those patients not entering the 
open label extension study.  
The patches were applied for a period of 24 hours. Preferably the patches were applied to the upper or 
lower  abdomen  (above  the  umbilicus)  but  thigh,  hip,  flank,  shoulder,  and/or  upper  arm  formed  an 
alternative.  The  skin  should  be  healthy,  cleaned  and  dry.  The  application  site  of  the  patches  was 
rotated on a daily basis (i.e. to contra-lateral sides of the upper abdomen).  A period of 14 days was 
left between one and the next application to the same area.  New patches should be applied at the same 
time daily and immediately after the previous day’s patches have been removed.   
During the titration phase, dose could be increased after one week of the lower dose. During the de-
escalation  phase,  the  daily  dose  of  rotigotine  was  decreases  by  4.5  mg  every  two  days  whereas  the 
subjects on ropinirole were down-titrated from 24 to 18 to 12 to 7.5 to 4.5 to 5 to 2.25 and to 0.75 
mg/daily every two days. 
Objectives 
To evaluate efficacy, safety and tolerability of rotigotine  continuous  delivery  system (CDS) in early 
Parkinson’s Disease compared to placebo and, in study SP513, ropinirole. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  assessment  was  based  upon  the  UPDRS-II-III  score.  The  approach  to  defined 
different primary endpoint for US and EU was done a priori. Responder rates were used as the primary 
outcome variable in the EU and mean change from baseline in UPDRS parts II and III was used as the 
primary  outcome  in  the  US.  Secondary  efficacy  variables  were  the  relative  and  absolute  change  in 
UPDRS-II-III  score  over  time,  the  separate  UPDRS-II  and  UPDRS-III  scores  and  the  AUC  of 
UPDRS-II-III in the maintenance phase. See above summary table. 
Sample size 
Study SP512:  
An absolute difference in response rates of 20% was judged as being clinically meaningful. Based on 
study SP406 the response rates for placebo was assumed to be 30% maximally and 50% for rotigotine 
CDS minimally. A sample size of 160 in the rotigotine arms and 80 subjects in the placebo arm (2:1 
randomization) allowed detection of a statistically significant difference in response rates between the 
two groups, with a power of at least 80% using a two sided 5% Fisher's exact test. It was estimated 
that 300 subjects had to be enrolled in order to have 250 subjects randomised. 
22/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SP513:  
The sample size was determined by the active comparison i.e. rotigotine versus ropinirole, with a non-
inferiority margin of 15% and equal proportion of responders in both active study arms. 
For the comparison to placebo, assuming a responder rate of 30% for placebo and 50% for rotigotine 
CDS,  90  subject  in  the  placebo  arm  were  be  sufficient  to  show  a  statistical  significance  (two-sided 
fisher's exact test with a 5%), with a power of 85%. 
It was estimated that 540 subjects had to be enrolled in order to have 470 subjects randomised. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomised centrally by an interactive voice response system. In both studies subjects 
were randomised in a 2:1 ratio (active treatment : placebo).  
Blinding (masking) 
All  placebo  and  rotigotine  patches  and  their  accompanying  packaging  were  identical  in  appearance. 
The same holds for ropinirole capsules /placebo capsules in study SP513. For study SP 513 a double 
dummy technique was needed to maintain the blinding. For blinding purposes, ropinirole tablets were 
encapsulated into hard gelatine capsules.  
The de-escalation phase was blind as well.  
Statistical methods 
No interim analyses were intended. 
Study SP512 
The primary analysis was based on the Full Analysis Set (all randomized patients having a baseline 
and at least one post baseline measurement for the primary variable). The Fisher’s exact test was used 
to test the null-hypothesis of no difference in proportion of responders between placebo and rotigotine 
versus the alternative hypothesis that the proportion responders differ. All analysis of the primary and 
secondary variables was based upon the last observation carried forward. The two-sided significance 
test for the confirmatory analysis was performed at the 5% level. For all other situations, testing was 
only performed in an exploratory manner by presenting p-values and/or 95%-confidence intervals. 
Study SP513 
The statistical methods described above for study SP512 also hold for study SP513. However, based 
on  the  trial  design  (three  arm  parallel  group),  different  null  hypothesis  was  tested  in  a  pre-assigned 
order (closed test principle). The test procedure starts with a two-sided (α=5%) test between rotigotine 
and  placebo.  In  case  of  rejection,  it  proceeds  to  a  one-sided  full  level  (α=2.5%)  non-inferiority  test 
(with non-inferiority margin of 15%) between rotigotine and ropinirole. In case of rejection, and if the 
lower  confidence  limit  for  the  treatment  effect  lies  above  zero,  then  there  is  evidence  of  superiority 
and a two-sided level α=5% test could be performed. 
23/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The number of patients recruited, randomised and completing study SP512/SP513 are presented in the 
following table. 
STUDIES 
nrecruited   
nrandomised  
nnon-completers  
Due toA  
Lack of efficacy  
Adverse events  
Other reasonsB 
 Patient flow /Numbers analysed 
SP512 
302 
Placebo 
96 
15 (16%) 
Rotigotine 
181 
39 (22%) 
6 (6.3%) 
6 (6.3%) 
6 (6.3%) 
12 (6.6%) 
24 (13.4%) 
8  (4.4%) 
Placebo 
118 
34 (29%) 
22 (19%) 
6 (5%) 
11 (9%) 
SP513 
610 
Rotigotine 
215 
64 (30%) 
14 (7%) 
37 (17%) 
22 (10%) 
Ropinirole 
228 
54 (24%) 
8 (4%) 
29 (13%) 
22 (10%) 
n In safety data  set (SS) 
n  in full analyses dataset  (FAS) 
nin per protocol data set  (PPS) 
96 (100%) 
96 (100%) 
80 (83%) 
180 (99%) 
181(98%) 
148 (82%) 
118 (100%) 
117 (99%) 
77 (65%) 
215 (100%) 
213 (99%) 
145 (67%) 
228 (100%) 
227 (99%) 
157 (69%) 
A Subjects could drop out for more than one reason.  
B  Other reason included: withdraw consent,  lost to follow-up or still other reasons.  
Baseline data 
STUDY SP512 
The average age of randomized subjects was 63 years old; 55% of the subjects were  <65 years old, 
31% were 65-74 year old, and 14% were ≥75 years old. The majority of subjects were male (60% in 
the placebo group, 68% in the rotigotine group), and nearly all subjects (96%) were white. Compared 
with  rotigotine-treated  subjects,  a  greater  proportion  of  placebo-treated  subjects  were  >75  years  old 
(11%  versus  21%).  Otherwise,  there  were  no  important  differences  in  demographics  between 
treatment groups in the efficacy dataset or the per protocol data set at baseline. 
In  the  safety  set  at  baseline,  the  majority  of  subjects  (57%)  had  a  CGI  score  of  3  indicating  mild 
illness. Sixty-five percent of subjects had a UPDRS II score of ≤9 (the maximum [worst] UPDRS II 
score is 52), 81% had a UPDRS III score of ≤29 (the maximum [worst] UPDRS III score is 108), and 
54%  of  all  subjects  had  a  UPDRS  II+III  score  of  ≤29.  The  baseline  characteristics  are  in  line  with 
expectations for an early PD population. Patients were mostly enrolled at stage 2 H&Y and there were 
no  important  imbalances  between  placebo  and  rotigotine  groups.  Furthermore  despite  the  relative 
liberal inclusion criteria in what concerns previous dopaminergic therapy the actually enrolled patients 
were,  in  practical  terms,  never  exposed  to  such  therapies  and  therefore  that  exposition  cannot  be 
thought as a source of bias. 
STUDY 513 
Overall, the average age of randomized subjects in the Safety data set was 61.1 years old; 58% of the 
subjects were <65 years old, 35% were 65-74 years old, and 6% were ≥75 years old. The majority of 
subjects  were  male  (placebo:  58%,  rotigotine:  55%,  ropinirole:  60%)  and  nearly  all  subjects  (96% 
overall) were white. There were no important differences in demographics between treatment groups 
in the per protocol data set at baseline. 
At baseline for the Safety data set, the majority of subjects (51%) had a CGI score of 3 indicating mild 
illness. The majority (45%) of all subjects had a UPDRS II+III score of 15-29, and 36% of all subjects 
had  a  UPDRS  II+III  score  of  30-44.  There  were  no  notable  differences  in  baseline  characteristics 
between treatment groups in the Safety data set or the per protocol data set at baseline. 
24/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Results for both studies are summarised in the tables below: 
Efficacy: Primary Outcome EU: RESPONDERS 
STUDIES 
SP512 
RESPONDERS A 
Placebo 
n=96 
Rotigotine 
n=177 
Placebo 
n=96 
SP513 
Rotigotine 
n=213 
Ropinirole 
n=227 
20% improvement 
18 (19%) 
84 (48%) 
35 (30%) 
110 (52%) 
155 (70%) 
CI95% difference vs. placebo 
28.8% 
18.0% <> 39.4% 
21.7% 
11.1% <> 32.4% 
38.4% 
28.1% <> 48.6% 
144 (63%) 
36.1% 
25.9% <> 46.3% 
134 (59%) 
35.1% 
25.1% <> 45.1% 
Ropinirole 
227 
32.2 (12.4) 
-13.2 
-12.9 
CI95% difference vs. Ropinirole 
- 
25% improvement 
15 (16%) 
77 (48%) 
32 (27%) 
CI95% difference vs. placebo  
27.9% 
17.6% <> 38.2% 
CI95% difference vs. Ropinirole 
- 
30% improvement 
12 (13%) 
66 (37%) 
28 (24%) 
CI95% difference vs. placebo  
24.8% 
15.1% <> 34.5% 
CI95% difference vs. Ropinirole 
- 
AFull analysis data set, last observation carried forward . 
-16.6% 
-25.7% <> -7.6% 
102 (48%) 
20.5% 
10.0% <> 31.0% 
-15.5% 
-24.7% <> -6.4% 
90 (42%) 
18.3% 
8.1% <> 28.5% 
-16.8 
-26.0 <> -7.6% 
STUDIES 
SP512 
Efficacy: Primary Outcome USA: UPDRS-II-III 
Placebo 
96 
Rotigotine 
177 
Placebo 
117 
SP513 
Rotigotine 
213 
n 
UPDRS II/III scoreA 
Baseline  
Change begin maintenance  
Change end of maintenance  
AncovaB 
End of maintenance  
CI95% difference vs. placebo 
CI95% difference vs. Ropinirole 
30.0 (10.7) 
-1.5 
1.5 
29.9 (12.2) 
-6.2 
-3.8 
31.3 (12.6) 
-7.5 
-3.3 
33. (12.6) 
-11.1 
-8.3 
1.31 
-3.98 
-2.33 
-6.83 
-10.78 
-5.28 
-7.6 <> -2.96 
-4.49 
-6.64 <>-2.35 
-8.45 
-10.57 <>-6.34 
3.96 
2.18 <> 5.73 
AFull analysis data set  BAncova: Treatment effect results adjusted for geographic region and Baseline UPDRS 
STUDIES 
N 
UPDRS-II scoreA  
Baseline  
Begin maintenance  
End of maintenance  
UPDRS-III scoreA, C  
Baseline  
Begin maintenance  
End of maintenance  
GGI-severityB   
Normal  
Efficacy:  Secondary  Outcome variables 
SP512 
Placebo 
96 
Rotigotine 
177 
Placebo 
117 
SP513 
Rotigotine 
213 
Ropinirole 
227 
8.7 
-0.8 
1.0 
21.3 
-2.1 
0.5 
8.3 
-1.4 
-0.3 
21.6 
-4.9 
-3.5 
Baseline  →  End maintenance 
0% →   0% 
2% →  1% 
8.7 
-1.4 
-0.2 
9.3 
-2.9 
-2.0 
9.1 
-3.4 
-3.0 
22.0 
-4.8 
-2.1 
23.8 
-7.5 
-5.3 
Baseline  →  End maintenance 
2%  →    4% 
23.2 
-8.8 
-8.0 
2% →    1% 
2%  →    6% 
25/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy:  Secondary  Outcome variables 
SP512 
Placebo 
96 
14% →   6% 
63% →   66% 
22% → 26% 
1% →   2% 
Rotigotine 
177 
17% → 16% 
58% → 65% 
22% → 16% 
1% →   1% 
End of maintenance 
2% 
1% 
17% 
7% 
38% 
21% 
23% 
40% 
18% 
28% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
1% 
End of maintenance 
56% 
49% 
73% 
71% 
43% 
45% 
67% 
53% 
56% 
68% 
STUDIES 
N 
Borderline ill 
Mildly ill 
Moderately ill  
Markedly ill 
CGI-changeB  
Very much improved 
Much improved  
Minimally improved  
No change  
Minimally worse 
Much worse  
Very much worse  
EU-QoL 5DB 
No problems walking about 
No problems with self-care  
No  problems  performing  usual 
activities 
No Pain or Discomfort  
No Anxiety or Depression 
A Full analysis data set , 
 B Safety data set 
STUDY SP512 
Placebo 
117 
14%  →  18% 
47%  →  54% 
32%  →  25% 
3%  →    1% 
Ropinirole 
227 
11%  →  38% 
54%  →  43% 
30%  →  39% 
3%  →    4% 
SP513 
Rotigotine 
213 
13%  →  23% 
49%  →  52% 
33%  →  20% 
3%  →    2% 
End of maintenance 
10% 
32% 
30% 
17% 
11% 
1% 
0% 
End of maintenance 
41% 
51% 
37% 
37% 
44% 
18% 
42% 
23% 
13% 
4% 
0% 
0% 
51% 
60% 
47% 
44% 
46% 
8% 
16% 
24% 
28% 
20% 
2% 
0% 
35% 
44% 
25% 
27% 
37% 
Rotigotine  improved  the  absolute  UPDRS  (Parts  II+III)  subtotal  score  at  the  end  of  treatment  of 
approximately  -4  points,  whereas  the  equivalent  score  in  placebo-treated  subjects  indicated 
deterioration (+1.3 points). These end of treatment scores are highly statistically significantly different 
from each other (p<0.0001). 
Rotigotine resulted in a higher proportion of responders at the end of treatment compared with placebo 
for all of the pre-defined responder groups (ie, for 20%, 25%, and 30% improvements in the UPDRS 
(Parts II+III) subtotal scores). For all groups, these end of treatment responder proportions are highly 
statistically significantly different from each other (p<0.0001). 
The secondary endpoints were  consistent with the beneficial effect of rotigotine seen in the primary 
endpoints. In particular improvement in UPDRS part III was about 3p. 
STUDY SP513 
The adjusted mean change from baseline in absolute UPDRS (Parts II+III) subtotal score to the end of 
treatment  was  -6.83  points  (indicating  improvement)  for  rotigotine-treated  subjects.  Ropinirole-  and 
placebo-treated subjects experienced improvements of -10.78 points and -2.33 points, respectively. 
26/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The end of treatment responder proportions (20% cut point) for rotigotine and placebo are statistically 
significantly  different  from  each  other  (p<0.0001).  The  difference  between  rotigotine  and  ropinirole 
did not show non-inferiority. The results obtained for each of the other analysis populations (PPS with 
LOCF  and  End  of  Maintenance  Visit  Completers)  were  consistent  with  the  results  of  the  primary 
analysis. 
The secondary endpoints analysis goes in line with the main analysis. The effect size in UPDRS part 
III (referred to baseline) was 5.3 p to rotigotine and 8.0p to ropinirole. 
This trial failed to prove the non-inferiority of rotigotine to ropinirole. In fact ropinirole was superior. 
This finding is consistent across all analysis. If study SP513 had been a two arm non-inferiority study 
with ropinirole and rotigotine as active treatments, non-inferiority would not have been shown (20% 
responders under ropinirole 70% under rotigotine 52%, difference 16.6 %; CI 95% [-25.7%;  -7.6%]). 
See discussion on clinical efficacy. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Studies in advanced Parkinson’s Disease were ongoing at the time of the assessment of the application 
in early Parkinson disease. 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Comparison of results by rotigotine maintenance dose 
Few subjects received 4.5mg/day or 9.0mg/day as their rotigotine maintenance dose in either SP512 or 
SP513.  The  available  data  for  these  doses  suggest,  however,  that  9.0mg/day  rotigotine  may  be  an 
effective dose in some patients. 
27/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The comparative analysis of studies SP512 and SP513 show that the effect size of rotigotine benefit is 
consistent although somewhat smaller in the study 512 that had a maximum dose lower than the 
SP513. This suggests that the dose-response may not plateau within the dose-range studied in these 
studies. 
•  Supportive studies 
The long-term efficacy of rotigotine was being evaluated in two, open-label extension trials (SP512, 
Part II; SP513, Part II). As for the Part I portions of these trials, the trial designs for SP512 and SP513 
Part II were nearly identical. 
All  subjects  began  treatment  with  rotigotine  at  a  dose  of  4.5mg/day  after  completing  the  DB 
deescalation.  Because  the  rotigotine  dose  may  have  been  up-titrated  every  7  ±  3  days  by  4.5mg 
(10cm2) increments to a maximum dose of 13.5mg/day (during the 1st year of open-label treatment), 
the maximum length of the Titration Phase was 30 days.  
The  data  generated  by  the  open-label  long  term  extensions  (see  below)  suggested  that  efficacy  is 
maintained  in  a  relevant  proportion  of  individual  up  to  12  month  and  possibly  18  months  of 
monotherapy but again suggested lesser efficacy than ropinirole. 
28/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Pharmacokinetic data support the use of transdermal delivery for the administration of rotigotine. The 
main  features  derive  from  its  metabolism  (high  conjugation  pattern  of  unchanged  drug  and  dealkyl 
metabolites).  Dealkylation  shows  no  specific  isoforms  dependence,  therefore  genetic  differences, 
drug-drug  interaction  studies  and  renal/hepatic  impairment  studies  could  be  limited.  No  clinical 
relevant  effects  following  interaction  with  CYP  iso-enzymes  that  are  involved  in  rotigotine 
metabolism  are  expected.  The  inter-individual  variability  in  rotigotine  plasma  levels  was  extensive. 
This  should  not  be  a  major  issue  in  clinical  practice  since  rotigotine  dosages  will  be  titrated 
individually based on clinical response. 
In  patients  with  mild  to  severe  renal  dysfunction  or  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment,  only  little 
accumulation  of  the  biological  active  parent  drug  was  found.  Again,  rotigotine  will  be  titrated 
individually and therefore no serious clinical side effects are to be expected in patients with chronic 
renal or hepatic impairments. However, in acute onset of renal dysfunction unexpected increments of 
rotigotine levels might occur, and rotigotine dosage should be adjusted in such clinical conditions.  
The demonstration of efficacy for rotigotine in early PD is essentially derived from a large dose dose-
finding study – SP 506 and 2 pivotal studies (SP 512 and SP513 which included a comparison with 
ropinirole). In these studies, rotigotine consistently had a beneficial effect in the signs and symptoms 
of early PD. The dose-finding study showed the 13.5mg/d dose as the optimal dose with no extra gain 
for  18  mg/d  seen  in  this  study.  These  findings  defined  the  dose  range  tested  in  the  pivotal  studies. 
However from the data obtained in these pivotal studies it is likely that 18 mg/d is more efficacious 
than 13.5 mg/d and it is possible that dose higher than 18 mg/d could be useful if tolerated. 
The pivotal studies show that rotigotine is efficacious in the treatment of early PD patients. The effect 
size is about 5 points in UPDRS II+III, as compared to placebo at 6 months of treatment; out of those 
5 points, about 4 are derived from part III. The rate of responders was always in favor of rotigotine; 
for the 20% improvement definition rotigotine responders were about 50% (in placebo groups it varies 
from 20 to 30% approximately) and for the 30% improvement definition rotigotine responders were 
about 40% (in placebo groups it varies from 15% to 25% approximately).  
Nevertheless,  the  3-arm  pivotal  trial  rotigotine  failed  to  prove  non-inferiority  to  ropinirole.  In  fact 
ropinirole was substantially more efficacious that rotigotine which raised discussions on the benefit of 
rotigotine. Since almost all rotigotine patients reached the maximal study dose of 18mg/d, the optimal 
dose could be higher if well tolerated, but such data were not available. This also might explain the 
29/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
observation that for rotigotine the long-term efficacy appears to wear off which was not the case for 
ropinirole. 
Trial characteristics cannot explain the difference since study SP513 was a randomised double-blind 
placebo  and  positive  controlled  parallel  group  trial  where  baseline  characteristics  are  equally 
distributed over the study arms. 
Rotigotine effect size was in line with what is expected for a dopamine agonist. Ropinirole responder 
rate in study SP513 (70% for the 20% responder definition) was greater than usually seen in ropinirole 
studies  but  the  highest  mean  dose  of  ropinirole  in  those  literature  trials  is  16  mg/d  and  the  lowest 
8.3mg/d while in study SP513 one third of the ropinirole subjects reached 24 mg/d. 
If  some  benefits  of  the  transdermal  device  were  acknowledged  (i.e.  once  daily  doses,  easy  titration, 
and  circumvention  of  oral  administration  with  no  relevant  drug  or  food  interactions),  other  were 
considered only potential without confirmative data  (i.e. continuous drug delivery with more constant 
levels  of  a  dopamine-agonist  potentially  reducing  risks  of  early-morning  motor  impairment, 
occurrence of dyskinesias, somnolence or hallucinations). 
In fact, the lower efficacy of rotigotine as compared to ropinirole would only be a concern if the use of 
rotigotine would prevent patients to have a better treatment but this is not the case because patients are 
individually titrated to optimal control of symptoms. When a treatment is not satisfactory patients may 
be switched to alternative treatment, including other dopamine agonists. 
Experience using higher dose is limited in open-label trials in patients with early Parkinson Disease. 
Higher  doses  of  rotigotine  up  to  36.0mg/day  are  currently  under  investigation  for  treating  the  signs 
and symptoms of advanced-stage Parkinson’s disease. 
The  applicant  proposes  to  commercialize  a  “treatment  initiation  pack  "  containing  28  transdermal 
patches in 4 cartons containing 7 patches of 2mg/24h, 7 patches of 4mg/24h, 7 patches of 6mg/24h, 
and  7  patches  of  8mg/24h.  This  starter  pack  can  be a  useful  tool  to  ensure  a  smooth  titration  to  the 
individual optimal dose. The package and the package leaflet should allow easy understanding of the 
titration scheme and correct administration during the titration phase at the initiation of therapy. It is 
therefore acceptable. 
Clinical safety 
At  the  beginning  of  the  rotigotine  development  program,  silicone-  and  acrylic-based  prototype 
formulations were used. Further development by Schwarz was performed with silicone-based patches 
that  had  a  decreased  drug  load  and  higher  relative  bioavailability  compared  to  the  acrylic-based 
formula.  The  initial  silicone  patch  manufacturing  process  started  with  rotigotine  hydrochloride. 
Patches  manufactured  according  to  this  procedure  were  used  in  early  Phase  1  and  Phase  2  clinical 
trials.  The  manufacturing  process  was  changed  later  using  rotigotine  base  as  the  starting  material. 
These  patches,  manufactured  according  to  the  final  process,  were  used  in  most  of  the  clinical 
pharmacological trials as well as in the pivotal Phase 3 trials. 
All  subjects  receiving  at  least  1  dose  of  trial  medication  (silicone  patch  formulation,  ropinirole,  or 
placebo) by 31 Dec 2003 were included in the pooled safety analyses.  
For safety several safety analysis pools were defined (S1-S11). The most important once are described 
here and tabulated in section patient exposure: 
-  Safety  pool  S1  included  the  double-blind  phase  of  the  primary  clinical  trials,  i.e.  studies 
SP506, SP512 and SP513 in early Parkinson's Disease.  
-  Safety  pool  S2  included  all  double-blind  phase  2/3  subjects  with  early-stage  Parkinson’s 
disease, i.e. SP534, SP540, SP535, SP506, SP512 I (DB) and SP513 Part I (DB). 
-  Safety pool S3 included all phase 2/3 subjects with early-stage Parkinson’s disease including 
the  open-label  data.  In  this  pool,  subjects  originally  on  placebo  or  ropinirole  receiving 
rotigotine in the open label extension were incorporated in the rotigotine arms. 
-  Safety  pool  S4  included  the  subjects  of  the  pivotal  studies  only  i.e.  SP512  Part  I  (DB)  and 
SP513 Part I (DB). 
30/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Safety pool S5 included phase 3 subjects with early-stage Parkinson’s disease treated at least 
once in open-label. For the subjects receiving placebo or ropinirole in the double-blind, only 
the open-label data for exposure to rotigotine were displayed.  
-  Safety  pool  S6  included  all  phase  3  subjects  with  early-stage  Parkinson’s  disease  treated  at 
least once. Only the open label data were used.  
Safety  pool  S1  is  referred  to  as  “Primary  safety  pool”  and  safety  pools  S5  and  S6  is  referred  to  as 
“Data from long-term trials.”  
The safety pools excluded phase 1 and 2a trials. Safety of these trials were reported on a by trial basis. 
The other safety pools incorporated patients/healthy volunteers other than early Parkinson’s Disease.    
•  Patient exposure 
The overall rotigotine exposure with the final silicone formulation is summarised in the table below. 
A  total  of  1301  subjects  with  early-stage  Parkinson's  disease  received  trial  medication  in  8  clinical 
trials, of which a total of 1087 subjects received rotigotine (70 in one Phase 1 trial, 312 in 5 Phase 2 
trials and 705 received rotigotine in two Phase 3 trials [SP512 and SP513] each of which included a 6-
month double-blind portion and a long-term [=12 months] open-label portion).  
164 subjects received a modal dose of 13.5mg/day for at least 1 year and 122 subjects a modal dose of  
≥18.0mg/day for at least 1 year. 
•  Adverse events  
In the main studies (Pool S1), 74% of the patients on placebo, 83% of the patients on rotigotine and 
76%  of  the  patients  on  ropinirole  reported  adverse  events.  The  most  common  (≥5%)  treatment-
emergent  AEs  that  occurred  more  frequently  among  rotigotine-treated  subjects  compared  with 
placebo-treated  subjects  in  Pool  S1  included  (in  descending  frequency)  nausea,  application  site 
reaction, somnolence, dizziness, headache, vomiting, insomnia, fatigue, back pain, and constipation. 
31/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With  the  exception  of  application  site  reactions,  the  most  common  AEs  occurred  in  a  similar 
proportion of rotigotine- and ropinirole-treated subjects. 
Adverse events that occurred at a rate of at least 1% in the rotigotine group and at least twice as often 
as in the placebo group were considered to be “drug associated”. 
32/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
In Pool S1, over half of the subjects in each treatment experienced AEs considered by the investigator 
to be related to trial medication: 57% in placebo, 76% in rotigotine, and 70% in ropinirole. The most 
common (≥5%) of these were all widely recognized class effects of dopamine agonists, or associated 
with transdermal delivery systems. 
The  high  incidence  rates  of  nausea,  somnolence,  dizziness,  headache,  vomiting  observed  in  the 
titration  phase  dropped  drastically  in  the  maintenance  period.  The  incidence  rates  of  nausea  and 
vomiting  remained  relatively  high  (about  5%)  as  compared  to  placebo,  whereas  the  incidences  of 
somnolence,  dizziness,  headache  and  insomnia  (range  3.6%-8.1%)  were  comparable  to  those  of 
placebo. 
There was no evidence of a withdrawal effect for rotigotine or ropinirole. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Three subjects with early-stage Parksinson’s disease died during the clinical development program for 
rotigotine as of the clinical cutoff date (3/1231; 0.2%). One early-stage Parkinson’s subject who died 
received rotigotine (1/1017, 0.1%), while 2 subjects who died received ropinirole (2/228, 0.9%). Four 
additional deaths were reported in trials on subjects with advanced-stage Parkinson’s disease 
In  Pool  S1,  6%  (17/289)  of  placebo-treated  subjects  reported  23  SAEs,  7%  (44/649)  of  rotigotine-
treated subjects reported 58 SAEs, and 14% (31/228) of ropinirole treated subjects reported 39 SAEs. 
In all treatment groups, SAEs occurred across multiple body systems with no obvious trends. Except 
application site reaction; all other AEs considered related to trial medication per investigator occurred 
in less than 3 subjects. 
Application site reactions commonly occur with the rotigotine patch but are usually localized and mild 
or moderate in intensity. The reactions were similar in short-term and long-term trials in subjects with 
early  Parkinson’s  disease.  Most  subjects  with  these  reactions  continued  treatment.  The  reactions 
usually subsided after variable time periods or removal of the patch. In three cases the application side 
33/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reaction were reported as serious. The severe reactions concerned contact dermatitis, allergic dermal 
reaction at site of application and itching.  
Local  tolerance  (cumulative  irritation)  and  sensitization  of  the  transdermal  system  (rotigotine  1.125 
mg /2.5 cm2) has been studied in healthy subjects (studies SP629 and SP673 respectively). Study 629 
was a randomised, blind, placebo-controlled local tolerance study in 38 healthy volunteers. Study 673 
was  a  randomised,  blind,  placebo  controlled  skin  sensitisation  study  in  229  healthy  subjects.  Local 
tolerance was assessed by the dermal response score (0= no evidence of irritation, 7 = strong reactions 
spreading  beyond  test  site)  after  repetititve  application  of  rotigotine  or  placebo  patch  compared  to 
daily rotational application of the rotigotine patch. This trial also included the repetitive application of 
a negative and a positive control. Repetitive application was stopped after induction of a predefined 
maximum  irritation  score  of  3  (=  erythema  and  papules;  SP629)  or  2  (=definite  erythema,  readily 
visible;  or  minimal  edema  or  minimal  papular  response;  SP673).  The  irritation  score  observed  in 
SP673 was low (0.29) and was similar to that obtained after daily rotating patch application in SP629 
(0.34).  In  study  SP673,  a  sensitization  trial  including  229  subjects,  no  case  of  sensitization  to 
rotigotine and placebo patches was observed. In contrast, in study SP629 a classical type IV contact 
dermatitis  according  to  Coombs  and  Gell  was  confirmed  by  skin  biopsies  after  rechallenge  in  2 
subjects, whereas in 1 subject it could not be differentiated from toxic dermatitis. This was explained 
by the design of SP629 (more frequent repetitive patch application on the same skin site, mechanical 
stress by patch removal on the same skin site every 24 hours, positive controls in addition to rotigotine 
and  placebo  patches,  continuing  rotating  application  after  induction  of  maximum  irritation  by 
repetitive  application)  which  is  very  unlikely  in  a  therapeutic  setting.  Overall,  healthy  volunteers 
testing showed that rotigotine is a mildly irritating substance and that reactions are reduced with patch 
rotation.  
Other issues deserved special analysis since the drug being evaluated is a dopamine agonist. 
Somnolence and sleep attacks:  
Somnolence was reported at comparable rates in Pool S1 subjects receiving rotigotine (25%, 161/649) 
and  ropinirole  (29%,  67/228).  Somnolence  was  reported  in  16%  (45/289)  of  subjects  receiving 
placebo.  Although  somnolence  was  somewhat  less  common  during  the  later months  of  maintenance 
than  during  titration  and  early  maintenance,  the  percentage  of  rotigotine-treated  subjects  reporting 
somnolence was more consistent over time than for nausea and vomiting. 
The SPC recommend that Prescribers continually reassess drowsiness or sleepness. 
Orthostatic hypotension / Syncope 
Suspected  orthostatic  hypotension  was  reported  in  4.2%,  4.5%  and  4.8%  of  the  subjects  in  under 
placebo,  rotigotine,  and  ropinirole  respectively  (S1  pool).  Suspected  orthostatic  hypotension  did  not 
vary  over  time  or  dose,  was  not  reported  as  a  serious  adverse  event,  and  very  few  subjects 
discontinued or had dose reduction because of postural hypotension. 
Syncope  was  reported  in  0.7%,  1.1%  and  3.7%  of  the  subjects  in  under  placebo,  rotigotine,  and 
ropinirole  respectively  (S1  pool).  All  cases  of  syncope  in  rotigotine-treated  subjects  were  reported 
during titration or first 3 months in maintenance; within this timeframe, incidence of syncope did not 
vary  substantially  over  time  or  with  dose.  Syncope  was  reported  as  a  serious  adverse  event  in  1% 
(2/228)  of  subjects  treated  with  ropinirole  and  <1%  (1/649)  of  subjects  treated  with  rotigotine. 
Syncope led to discontinuation of 1 subject treated with placebo and 1 subject treated with rotigotine 
(<1% for both) and 2 subjects treated with ropinirole (1%). 
The SPC recommends monitoring of blood pressure, especially at the beginning of treatment. 
Peripheral oedema 
Extremity oedema was reported in 5.5%, 6.6% and 4.4% of the subjects receiving placebo, rotigotine 
and ropinirole respectively (S1 pool). Extremity oedema was not reported as a serious adverse event. 
Two  rotigotine-treated  subjects  discontinued  trial  medication  as  a  result  of  peripheral  oedema  and  1 
subject receiving ropinirole had a dose reduction as a result of dependent oedema. 
Dyskinesia  
34/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dyskinesia  (dyskinesia  in  a  strict  sense  +  hyperkinesia  +  involuntary  muscle  contractions)  were 
reported  in  1.7%,  2.9%  and  0.9%  %  of  the  subjects  receiving  placebo,  rotigotine  and  ropinirole 
respectively (S1 pool). Dyskinesia did not lead to discontinuations or dose reductions.  
Compulsive  disorders  including  pathologic  gambling,  hypersexuality,  increased  libido,  repetitive 
meaningless actions (punding) have been reported in patients treated with Neupro. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The  incidence  of  abnormal  laboratory  values  reported  was  low.  No  abnormalities  specific  for 
rotigotine  were  observed  except  a  decrease  in  prolactin  levels  which  is  a  known  class-effect  of 
dopamine-agonists. 
QT- prolonging potential of rotigotine:  
Concern  resulted  in  an  extensive  evaluation  programme.  For  SP512  and  SP513,  standard  12-lead 
ECGs were repeatedly taken from pre-treatment until safety follow-up assessment.  
In Pool S1 “QT increased” was reported as an adverse event in 1.2% of the rotigotine-treated subjects 
(8 events in 8/649 subjects) versus 0.3% of the placebo treated subjects (1/289 subjects) and none of 
the ropinirole-treated subjects. In Pool S3, 11 rotigotine-treated subjects (1.1%) were reported to have 
a QT prolongation.  
Reviewing the QT data of the cases in which an adverse event of prolonged QT was reported, in none 
of  the  1017  rotigotine-treated  subjects  was  a  QTc  prolongation  identified  during  treatment  in 
comparison to baseline which may have a possible relationship between rotigotine and the event. For 
all events, more likely alternative etiologies were found or the QT prolongation was not confirmed by 
other available data. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The  adverse  event  profile  of  rotigotine  was  generally  similar  between  the  age-groups  analyzed,  and 
between males and females.  
Nausea was less common among rotigotine-treated subjects ≥65 (30%) years of age than among those 
<65 (43%) years of age. Nausea was also less common among rotigotine-treated subjects ≥75 (26%) 
years of age than among those <75 (39%) years of age. 
The  numbers  of  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment  or  renal  impairment  are  too  small  to  evaluate 
whether adverse event profile would differ with subjects with/without hepatic/renal impairment. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In vitro studies and clinical trials have concluded that rotigotine has a very low potential for drug-drug 
interactions. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Adverse events leading to discontinuation occurred in 6%, 13% and 13% in the placebo, rotigotine and 
to 
ropinirole  group  respectively.  These  were  dose  related.  Most  frequent  events 
discontinuation are summarised in the table below. 
leading 
35/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  event  that  determined  need  for  dose  reduction  was  excessive  sweating.  Increased  sweating  is 
described as a phenomenon possibly related to the underlying disease and to dopaminergic treatment. 
In  Pool  S1,  the  incidence  of  “sweating  increased”  was  comparable  for  rotigotine,  placebo  and 
ropinirole:  3.5%  (23/649)  of  the  rotigotine-treated  subjects  reported  sweating  under  the  terms  listed 
above  in  comparison  to  2.4%  (7/289)  of  the  placebo-treated  subjects  and  3.1%  (7/228)  of  the 
ropinirole-treated subjects. Sweating was mainly observed during the titration period of rotigotine. In 
general, these events were mild or moderate in intensity and the rotigotine treatment was continued.  
•  Post marketing experience 
Rotigotine was not been marketed in any region at the time of the assessment. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  of  rotigotine  was  comprehensively  described  and  it  can  be  considered  absolutely 
typical  of  a  dopamine  agonist.  The  dopaminergic  adverse  reactions  like  nausea,  vomiting  and 
somnolence dominate the picture. Safety of rotigotine was fully comparable to ropinirole safety. The 
only  exception  is  the  existence  of  skin  reaction  in  the  application  site  which  was  expected  with  a 
transdermal patch. Most of them were considered mild and they can be managed by the rotation of the 
patch site.  
Other  issue  that  deserves  special  analysis  since  the  drug  being  evaluated  is  a  dopamine  agonist  was 
somnolence  and  sleep  attacks.  Somnolence  was  relatively  common  25%  and  sleep  attacks  although 
uncommon (1%) are present. 
The pattern of deaths and  serious AEs  were in line  with expectations for the disease and age strata. 
There was no peculiar finding in this set of data that could raise concern.  
The  ECG  data  was  collected  in  a  systematic  way  because  of  the  concern  of  a  potential  QT 
prolongation  based  in  in  vitro  studies  with  HERG  channels.  The  clinical  data,  which  was 
comprehensively  acquired  and  analysed,  do  not  suggest  a  drug  associated  potential  to  induce  QT 
prolongation. 
Potential drug induced valvulopathy should be matter of a pharmacovigilance plan. Pergolide has been 
associated with valvular heart disease. Other dopamine agonists might also be associated. It is not yet 
clear  if  this  harmful  effect  is  related  only  with  ergot  drugs,  which  rotigotine  is  not,  or  with  other 
characteristics of certain dopamine agonists not yet defined. Being an agonist of the 5-HT2B receptors 
could  be  such  characteristics  but  the  involvement  of  this  mechanism  in  not  certain.  Given  the 
uncertainty  surrounding  the  problem  of  dopamine  agonists  induced  valvulopathy  and  the  need  to 
evaluate  this  risk  pro-actively,  the  applicant  agreed  to  further  assess  this  potential  risk  as  part  of  its 
updated pharmacovigilance plan. 
36/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The impact of hepatic and renal impairment in rotigotine PK was studied in dedicated trials albeit one 
can consider them limited because only the lower dose was tested. Nevertheless it is acknowledged the 
administration of higher doses of dopamine agonists to non-PD patients is limited by the side-effects. 
Thus,  the  conclusions  that  hepatic  and  renal  impairment  do  not  have  impact  on  rotigotine  PK  and 
therefore no dose adjustment is needed are endorsed. 
Rotigotine decreases prolactin secretion in humans. 
1.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system has deficiencies that should be addressed as 
part of the follow up measures. 
The  company  commited  to  have  the  additional  Standard  Operating  Procedures  in  place  before  the 
product is placed on the market which cover the following activities: 
electronic reporting, 
- 
-  meeting CXMP commitments, 
-  maintenance and up-date of Pharmacovigilance planning, 
- 
activities of the Qualified person. 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
The safety specifications were identified as follows: 
Important identified risks: 
-  Application site skin reactions, 
-  Sleep attacks and somnolence, 
-  Postural/orthostatic hypotension. 
Important potential risks (which cannot be excluded): 
-  Cardiovascular fibrosis (based on data on other dopamine agonists), 
-  Effect on retina (based on non-clinical data), 
-  Neuroleptic malignant syndrone after abrupt withdrawal (class effect). 
Important missing information: 
Neupro has not been investigated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Appropriate information have been included in the SPC to prevent risk, in particular recommendation 
for: 
-  Rotation of application site, avoidance of direct exposure to sunlight in case of skin reaction, 
-  Ophtalmologic monitoring, 
-  Assessment of patients for drowsiness or sleepness, 
-  Caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment, 
-  Recommendation of blood monitoring pressure, especially at the beginning of treatment, 
-  Recommendation for not using rotigotine during pregnancy and discontinuing breast-feeding 
- 
-  Caution when treating patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
In case of treatment discontinuation, the daily dose should be reduced gradually, 
The Company will perform a post-approval safety study, where particular attention will be paid to any 
cardiac  valve  fibrosis  related  signs  or  symptoms.  In  addition,  rotigotine  will  be  included  in  an 
independent  prospective  study  on  cardiac  fibrosis  in  Parkinson’s  disease  patients  on  dopamine 
agonists. 
37/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
1.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Rotigotine belongs to the group of non-ergolinic dopamine agonists. Rotigotine resembles dopamine 
in respect to structure, receptor binding and functional activity. 
Rotigotine affected action potential duration and hERG-mediated potassium current at concentrations 
that far exceed (143 and 214 times, respectively) human unbound mean peak plasma concentrations 
achieved at 18 mg. 
In repeated dose and long-term toxicity studies, the major effects were associated with the dopamine 
agonist related pharmacodynamic effects and the consequent decrease of prolactin secretion.  
Retinal degeneration was  observed in albino rats. The effects were  more pronounced in female rats. 
The  relevance  of  these  findings  to  humans  is  not  known  but  ophtalmologiccal  monitoring  is 
recommended. 
In a carcinogenicity study, male rats developed Leydig cell tumours and hyperplasia. These changes 
are well-known effects of dopamine agonists in rats after life-long therapy and assessed as not relevant 
to man. 
Rotigotine did not induce gene mutations in the Ames test, but did show effects in the in vitro Mouse 
Lymphoma  Assay  with  metabolic  activation  and  weaker  effects  without  metabolic  activation.  This 
mutagenic effect could be attributed to a clastogenic effect of rotigotine. This effect was not confirmed 
in vivo in the Mouse Micronucleus Test in the rat Unscheduled DNA Synthesis (UDS) test. Since it 
ran  more  or  less  parallel  with  a  decreased  relative  total  growth  of  the  cells,  it  may  be  related  to  a 
cytotoxic effect of the compound. Therefore, the relevance of the one positive in vitro mutagenicity 
test is not known. 
Rotigotine did not influence male fertility in rats, but clearly reduced female fertility in rats and mice, 
because of the effects on prolactin levels which are particularly significant in rodents. Rotigotine was 
embryotoxic in rats and mice at materno-toxic doses. Rotigotine should not be used during pregnancy. 
Inhibition  of  lactation  is  expected  and  rotigotine  was  excreted  in  breast  milk  in  rats.  Breast-feeding 
should be discontinued. 
Based on local tolerance studies, effects due to the application and removal procedure of patches were 
identified  after  repeated  patch  administration  to  the  same  sites.  Therefore,  a  rotating  application 
scheme of rotigotine patches in human use is strongly recommended. 
The environmental risk assessment could not be completed. The Applicant was asked to further assess 
the  environmental  risk  and  has  committed  to  perform  further  studies  on  Environmental  Risk 
Assessment (ERA). 
Any used or unused patches should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements or returned 
to  the  pharmacy.  Patches  should  not  be  flushed  down  the  toilet  nor  placed  in  liquid  waste  disposal 
system. 
38/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The  transdermal  patch  demonstrated  to  be  a  feasible  formulation.  The  inter-individual  variability  in 
rotigotine plasma levels was extensive. This might form no severe obstacle in clinical practice, since 
rotigotine dosages will be titrated individually based on clinical response. No clinical relevant effects 
following interaction with CYP iso-enzymes that are involved in rotigotine metabolism are expected.  
The efficacy for rotigotine in early PD as monotherapy is essentially derived from a large dose dose-
finding  study  –  SP  506  and  2  pivotal  studies  (SP  512  and  SP513).  Studies  show  consistently  that 
rotigotine do have a beneficial effect in the signs and symptoms of early PD. The dose-finding study 
pointed  to  the  13.5  mg/d  dose  as  the  optimal  dose,  however,  from  the  data  obtained  in  the  pivotal 
studies it is likely that 18 mg/d is more efficacious than 13.5 mg/d. 
The pivotal studies clearly show that rotigotine is efficacious in the treatment of early PD patients. The 
effect size is about 5 p in UPDRS II+III, as compared to placebo at 6 months of treatment; out of those 
5p, about 4p are derived from part III. The rate of responders was always in favor of rotigotine with a 
mean excess of responders of about 20 to 30%, compared to placebo.  
However, in the 3-arm pivotal trial (SP513) rotigotine failed to prove non-inferiority to ropinirole. In 
fact, the difference in effect between ropinirole and rotigotine was significant in favour of Ropinirole. 
In addition, it cannot be excluded that efficacy may wear-off at long-term. 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  rotigotine  can  be  considered  typical  of  a  dopamine  agonist,  with  in  particular 
dopaminergic AE like nausea, vomiting and somnolence. The only exception is the existence of skin 
reaction in the application site which is expectable in a transdermal patch. The large majority of these 
are considered mild and they can be managed by the rotation of the patch site.  
The evaluation of the potential for QT prolongation does not suggest such a potential.  
Theoritical  risk  for  drug  induced  valvulopathy  will  be  further  assessed  in  the  framework  of  a  risk 
management plan. 
Safety  specifications  have  been  defined  and  appropriate  information  to  prevent  risks  have  been 
included  in  the  product  information.  No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are  required  beyond 
those included in the product information. 
The  applicant  performed  a  user  consultation  testing  of  the  package  leaflet  including  the  treatment 
initiation pack. 
Benefit-Risk assessment 
Overall, even though ropinirole was substantially more efficacious in one study, rotigotine has shown 
a consistent and clinically relevant effect with an acceptable safety profile. Therefore, the benefit risk 
ratio  is  considered  favorable  in  the  treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  early-stage  idiopathic 
Parkinson’s disease provided that a balanced description of the 3-arm trial is included in section 5.1 of 
the  SPC.  If  a  patient  is  insufficiently  controlled  while  on  treatment  with  rotigotine  switching  to 
another dopamine agonist might provide additional benefit. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that: 
- 
- 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns, 
no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
39/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
benefit-risk  balance  of  Neupro  in  the  treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  early-stage  idiopathic 
Parkinson’s  disease  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
40/41 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
