SCIENTIFIC  CONCLUSIONS  AND  GROUNDS  FOR  THE  AMENDMENT  OF  THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION OF NEUPRO PRESENTED BY THE EMEA 
1. Introduction and background 
Neupro (rotigotine) is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of early-stage idiopathic 
Parkinson’s  disease  (PD)  as  monotherapy  (i.e.  without  levodopa)  or  in  combination  with  levodopa, 
i.e.  over  the  course  of  the  disease,  through  to  late  stages  when  the  effect  of  levodopa  wears  off  or 
becomes  inconsistent  and  fluctuations  of  the  therapeutic  effect  occur  (end  of  dose  or  ‘on-off’ 
fluctuations).  
The  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  had  been  made  aware  on  14  November  2007  by  the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  of  the  occurrence  of  a  quality defect affecting Neupro and 
showing the separation of solid crystals of the active substance in the matrix of the patch. The crystals 
resemble snowflakes in appearance, and have been shown to be a new and unexpected polymorphic 
form of rotigotine (‘Form 2’ as opposed to the original ‘Form 1’). 
To avoid this crystallisation process, the finished product manufacturing process was modified. 
On  8  May  2008,  at  the  request  of  the  EMEA,  the  MAH  issued  an  update  on  the  ongoing  stability 
studies for the batches manufactured according to the new process, which showed crystallisation still 
occurring at a significant level (up to 40% of the visible surface area of the patch).  
Therefore,  concerns  remained  over  the  quality  of  the  product  due  to  the  persistence  of  the  crystal 
formation.  The  possible  impact  of  this  uncontrolled  crystallisation  on  the  efficacy  of  the  medicinal 
product  is  not  known.  Moreover,  a  number  of  quality  complaints  were  received  from  patients  and 
healthcare providers in this regard. 
During its May 2008 plenary session, the CHMP requested the MAH to address this quality concern 
during an oral explanation which was given on 27 May 2008.  
On  29  May  2008,  the  European  Commission  initiated  a  procedure  under  Article  20  of  Regulation 
(EC)  No  726/2004  and  referred  the  matter  to  the  CHMP.  The  European  Commission  requested  the 
Committee to assess the above quality concern and its impact on the risk benefit balance for Neupro 
and to give its opinion on measures necessary to ensure the quality and effective use of Neupro and on 
whether  the  marketing  authorisation  for  this  product  should  be  maintained,  varied,  suspended  or 
withdrawn. 
On  29  May  2008,  the  MAH  triggered  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction  (USR)  to  introduce  provisional 
changes to the Product Information in relation to the storage conditions and shelf life of the product 
with immediate effect. 
Written explanations were provided by the MAH on 29 and 30 May 2008.  
The  CHMP  after  reviewing  all  the  available  data  submitted  by  the  MAH  to  address  this  quality 
concern, adopted an opinion by written procedure on 3 June 2008. 
 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Discussion 
Quality aspects 
Rotigotine is a non-ergolinic dopamine agonist. The currently approved formulations are presented as 
10  cm2,  20  cm2,  30  cm2and  40  cm2  transdermal  patches  containing  respectively  4.5  mg,  9.0  mg, 
13.5 mg and 18.0 mg of rotigotine, and designed to release respectively 2 mg, 4 mg, 6 mg and 8 mg of 
rotigotine per 24 hours. 
Following  reports  of  phase  separation  in  the  patches,  this  was  traced  to  the  appearance  of  a  new 
polymorphic form of the active substance and subsequently led to manufacturing process revisions by 
the  MAH.  However,  these  process  revisions  were  not  completely  successful.  There  were  further 
reports of crystallisation occurring in batches on the market. The latest information provided by the 
MAH indicated that crystallisation could be seen on up to 40% of the surface area of the patch. When 
rotigotine is in this crystal form, it cannot be released from the patch into the bloodstream, and it is 
therefore possible that patches showing such extensive crystallisation may be less effective.  
The  MAH  submitted  updated  stability  results  for  the  batches  manufactured  in  accordance  with  the 
new manufacturing process.  These stability results showed an irregular but significant trend towards 
the increase of the crystallisation area from 0 to 6 months of storage. Importantly, results showed no 
significant  appearance  of  crystals  after  6  months  storage  at  5°C.  Furthermore,  limited  data  suggest 
that  crystallised  batches  at  ambient  temperature  did  not  further  crystallise  when  placed  in  a 
refrigerator.  The  MAH  claimed  this  counter-intuitive  finding  may  be  explained  in  terms  of  a 
diffusional  barrier.  During  crystal  growth,  rotigotine  has  to  migrate  from  the  bulk  matrix  to  the 
surface  of  the  growing  crystal,  and  this  migration/diffusion  process  appears  to  be  decreased  at  low 
temperature  so  that  crystal  growth  stops  or  is  much  reduced.  An  alternative  or  complementary 
explanation is that conversion of Form 1 to Form 2 is inhibited at low temperatures. As long as the 
substance remains as Form 1, it does not crystallise because it is more soluble than Form 2 
Therefore, the MAH’s view was that these low temperature findings offered a possible solution to the 
crystallisation problem.  
The  MAH  has  also  shown,  on  the  basis  of  results  from  their  in  vitro  release  test,  that  batches  with 
<30% crystallisation were still within specification.  
During  its  oral  explanation,  the  MAH  claimed  that  their  in  vitro  release  test  is  indeed  sufficiently 
discriminatory,  to  the  extent  that  a  significant  change  in  bioavailability  in  such  crystallised  batches 
was unlikely, even up to a level of approximately 30% of the patch area. 
Taking into account some evidence arising from the in vitro release test, and the reassurance provided 
by  refrigerated  stability  investigations  so  far,  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the  MAH  that  storage  at  5°C 
(2°C-8°C)  offered  a  possible  solution  to  this  crystallisation  problem  without  compromising 
bioavailability. 
The CHMP emphasised that available stability data at the time of this Opinion could only support a 
shelf  life  of  6  months  at  5°C    (2°C-8°C  )  for  the  product  , although the CHMP agreed this may be 
extended when further data are available. 
Consequently, the CHMP requested a number of commitments to the MAH for resolution of the 
crystallisation problem. These included the submission of changes to the Marketing Authorisation in 
relation to the product specifications, shelf-life and storage conditions; the pursuing of further 
optimization of the manufacturing process and the submission of the results and necessary variations 
for assessment to CHMP. 
 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy aspects 
Although the impact of crystallisation on clinical efficacy is not known, the in vitro test indicated that 
there may be a  theoretical impact on the extent of the drug release.  
The  MAH  recognised  that  variability  at  the  level  of  the  patient  including  psychological  factors  are 
likely to make dose optimization less predictable and may reduce the consistency of clinical efficacy.  
During its oral explanation, the MAH claimed that the new storage conditions at 5°C (2°C-8°C) could 
inhibit crystallisation and could provide an appropriate measure to limit the theoretical risk of reduced 
efficacy of the medicinal products.   
The MAH considered that switching to other dopamine agonists may be of concern in particular for 
patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease, already stabilised with high doses of Neupro and whom 
would thus require a careful down titration period. 
The MAH also emphasized that the known differences in the bioavailability of Neupro (from 1-41%) 
at  the  different  application  sites,  as  defined  in  the  current  SPC,  was  considered  an  acceptable 
fluctuation factor, as there was no indication of a relevant impact on the clinical outcome. 
On the basis of the data available and given the known existing fluctuation in patients’ responses, the 
CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  change  in  the  storage  conditions  (2°C-8°C)  could  inhibit 
crystallisation, and could limit the theoretical risk of reduced efficacy of Neupro. 
The CHMP also acknowledged that Neupro is the only patch available in the treatment of Parkinson’s 
disease, which can be of benefit for some patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease. 
Overall discussion and benefit-risk assessment 
Taking into consideration the above quality and clinical aspects, the CHMP agreed that the benefit-
risk of Neupro remains favourable under the new storage conditions (2°C-8°C ) and reduced shelf life 
(6 months). 
Therefore  the  CHMP  recommended  the  amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC), Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
The following information was included in the SPC: 
Section 6.3  Shelf life 
6 months. 
Section 6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
The Labelling and Package Leaflet were amended accordingly. 
In addition, the CHMP requested additional measures to address the quality defect in relation to the 
crystal formation in the patches: 
•  Storing, shipping, and distributing all Neupro patches via an integral cold chain (2 to 8°C). 
•  Replacing the currently marketed product within a timeframe of 3 months. 
•  Submitting changes to the Marketing Authorisation in relation to the product specifications, shelf-
life and storage conditions. 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pursuing further optimization of the manufacturing process and to submitting the results and 
necessary variations for assessment to CHMP. 
GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS, 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET PRESENTED BY THE EMEA 
Whereas 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The Committee acknowledged that crystallisation occurs with Neupro transdermal patches (up 
to 40% of the visible surface area of the patch).  
In  view  of  the  available  data,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  impact  of  crystallisation  on  the 
efficacy  of  Neupro  is  not  known.  However,  in  vitro  test  showed  that  there  is  a  theoretical 
impact on the extent of the drug release. 
The  Committee  concluded  that  refrigeration  of  the  product  at  5°C  (2°C-8°C)  could  inhibit 
crystallisation, and could limit the theoretical risk of reduced efficacy of the medicinal product. 
On the basis of the evidence provided by refrigerated stability investigations so far, the CHMP 
concluded that storage at 5°C (2°C-8°C) and limitation of the shelf life to 6 months address the 
crystallisation problem. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the following information should be included 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics and relevant sections of the Labelling and Package 
Leaflet of Neupro: 
 Shelf life: 6 months. 
Special precautions for storage: Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
The CHMP has recommended the amendment to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation for Neupro 
for which the revised Summary of Product Characteristics, Labelling and Package Leaflet are set out 
respectively in Annexes I, II and III.  
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
