EMA/285819/2016 
EMEA/H/C/002553 
EPAR summary for the public 
Neuraceq 
florbetaben (18F) 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Neuraceq. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Neuraceq. 
For practical information about using Neuraceq, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Neuraceq and what is it used for? 
Neuraceq is a solution for injection that contains the active substance florbetaben (18F); it is for 
diagnostic use only. 
Neuraceq is used during brain scans in patients with memory problems so that doctors can see 
whether or not they have significant amounts of β‑amyloid plaques in the brain. β-amyloid plaques are 
deposits sometimes present in the brain of people with memory problems caused by dementia (such as 
Alzheimer’s disease, Lewy-body dementia and Parkinson’s disease dementia) and also in the brain of 
some elderly people with no symptoms. The type of scan used with Neuraceq is called positron-
emission tomography (PET). 
How is Neuraceq used? 
Neuraceq can only be obtained with a prescription, and PET scans with Neuraceq should only be 
requested by doctors experienced in the management of patients with diseases such as Alzheimer’s 
and other dementias. The medicine is given by injection into a vein about 90 minutes before obtaining 
an image from a PET scan. After the image is obtained, it is read by physicians specially trained in 
interpreting PET scans with Neuraceq. Patients should discuss the results of their PET scan with their 
doctor. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Neuraceq work? 
The active substance in Neuraceq, florbetaben (18F), is a type of medicine known as a 
radiopharmaceutical that emits low amounts of radiation and works by targeting and attaching to 
β-amyloid plaques in the brain. After it attaches to the plaques, the radiation it emits can be detected 
by the PET scanner, enabling doctors to see whether or not significant amounts of plaques are present. 
If few or no β-amyloid plaques are seen in the PET scan (a negative scan), the patient is unlikely to 
have Alzheimer’s disease. However, a positive scan on its own is not sufficient to make a diagnosis in 
patients with memory problems, as plaques may be seen with several types of dementia and also in 
some elderly people with no symptoms. Doctors will therefore need to use the scans together with 
clinical evaluation. 
What benefits of Neuraceq have been shown in studies? 
Neuraceq has been investigated in one main study involving 216 volunteers divided into two groups: a 
group of healthy young people and a group of patients nearing the end of their lives who had 
consented to autopsies when they died; 41 volunteers (10 healthy young people and 31 patients) 
completed the study and were included in the results. The study looked at sensitivity and specificity of 
the PET scans (how well they identified volunteers with plaques in the brain and how accurate they 
were in distinguishing them from those who did not).  
PET scans with Neuraceq were shown to have high specificity and sensitivity when used for identifying 
patients with significant amounts of β-amyloid plaques in the brain. At the planned end of the study, 
31 patients had died and had autopsies carried out on them to prove whether or not they had 
significant amounts of β-amyloid plaques in their brains. When the results of the autopsies were 
compared with the PET scans, the scans were shown to have a sensitivity of 77.4% and a specificity of 
94.2%. This means that the PET scans were able to correctly identify as positive 77.4% of the cases 
where patients had significant amounts of plaques, and that almost all patients without significant 
plaques were correctly rated as negative. These data were further supported by the results from 
additional patients analysed after completion of the study. 
What are the risks associated with Neuraceq? 
The most common side effects with Neuraceq (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are pain, 
irritation and reddening of the skin at the site of injection. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions with Neuraceq, see the package leaflet. Neuraceq delivers a very low amount of radiation 
with minimal risk of cancer or any hereditary abnormalities. 
Why is Neuraceq approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Neuraceq’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Results 
from the main study demonstrated that PET scans with Neuraceq have high sensitivity and specificity 
for detecting β-amyloid plaques in the brain, with results of the scans closely reflecting what was seen 
at autopsy. This is regarded as a significant improvement in the diagnosis of patients with memory 
problems who are being evaluated for Alzheimer’s disease and other types of dementia. There is 
however a risk of false positive results, and therefore Neuraceq should not be used as the sole 
diagnostic method for dementia, but in conjunction with clinical evaluation. With regard to the safety 
Neuraceq  
EMA/285819/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
profile of Neuraceq, this was considered reassuring, with the most common adverse events being 
related to injection site reactions. 
The CHMP did however note that, due to the limited effects of currently available treatments for 
Alzheimer’s disease, there is no strong evidence that early diagnosis following PET scans with Neuraceq 
and early management of treatment will improve patient outcomes. In addition, the usefulness of 
Neuraceq in predicting the development of Alzheimer’s disease in patients with memory problems or in 
monitoring patients’ response to treatment has not been established. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Neuraceq? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Neuraceq is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Neuraceq, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Neuraceq 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Neuraceq on 20 February 2014. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Neuraceq can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Neuraceq, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016.  
Neuraceq  
EMA/285819/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
