SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.  Introduction 
A cataract is opacity of the lens of the eye that causes partial or total blindness. The major advances in 
the  surgical  treatment  of  cataract  in  the  last  century  have  not  been  matched  by  advances  in  the 
understanding  of  cataract  formation,  in  approaches  to  prevention,  or  in  nonsurgical  therapy.  Fifty 
percent  of  blindness  globally  is  estimated  to  be  caused  by  cataract,  accounting  for  15  million  blind 
individuals.  The  vast  majority  of  cataract  extractions  are  for  acquired  cataract,  with  senile  or  age-
related cataract predominating.  
The  only  treatment  for  cataract  is  to  surgically  remove  the  opacified  lens  from  the  eye  to  restore 
transparency of the visual axis. Surgery currently is indicated if symptoms from the cataract interfere 
with the patient's ability to meet his or her needs of daily living; there are no criteria based upon the 
level of visual acuity per se. 
Two techniques are currently used for cataract extraction: Standard extracapsular cataract extraction, 
which typically involves removal of the lens nucleus in one piece and phacoemulsification, also called 
small incision surgery, in which the lens is fragmented using ultrasound energy  
Inflammation  following  cataract  surgery  is  a  normal  physiological  response  to  trauma  and  typically 
resolves in time without intervention.  However, within the eye, the effects of inflammation can result 
in detrimental conditions.  Mild to moderate ocular inflammation may be associated with discomfort 
(mild  to  moderate  ocular  pain  and/or  photophobia),  while  more  severe  inflammation  may  be 
associated  with  more  significant  complications  including  decreased  vision,  severe  pain/photophobia, 
formation  of  posterior  synechiae,  elevated  intraocular  pressure,  worsening  of  pre-existing  glaucoma, 
deposits on the intraocular lens, vitreous haze and/or cystoid macular edema. 
Although  cataract  surgery  has  become  less  traumatic  in  the  past  decade  with  advances  in  surgical 
technique,  the  treatment  of  ocular  pain  and  inflammation  is  still  a  necessity.    Anti-inflammatory 
therapies  are  administered  to  reduce  postoperative  inflammation  [including  corneal  edema,  iritis 
(aqueous cells and flare)] and to help prevent the posterior segment complication of cystoid macular 
inflammation,  nonsteroidal 
edema.  While  corticosteroids  are  very  effective 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) provide surgeons with an alternative therapy for the reduction of 
inflammation  associated  with  cataract  surgery  and  when  used  preoperatively,  may  also  inhibit  the 
development of inflammation. Numerous NSAIDs are approved currently in EU Member States and 
include diclofenac sodium 1 mg/ml, ketorolac trometamol 5 mg/ml and Indomethacin 1 mg/ml.  
in  controlling 
Nepafenac  is  a  member  of  the  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug  (NSAID)  class.    The  drug  is 
formulated as a suspension applied by the topical ocular route, and is intended for the prevention and 
treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery.  Nepafenac (amfenac amide) is a 
prodrug  which  is  converted  to  amfenac  by  intraocular  hydrolases.    Amfenac  inhibits  both 
cyclooxygenase COX-1 and COX-2 activity.  
To benefit from the mechanism of action of nepafenac (i.e., inhibition of the cyclooxygenase enzyme), 
the suppression of inflammation should be most effectively achieved if therapeutic levels of the drug 
are  present  in  the  tissue  at  the  time  of  surgical  insult.  Therefore,  the  proposed  dosing  regimen  for 
nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension begins one day preoperatively and continues on the day of 
surgery and for up to 3 weeks of the postoperative period. 
The  applicant  submitted  a  complete  independent  application  according  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The indication and posology proposed by the applicant for NEVANAC was for the ‘Prevention and 
treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery.’ 
@EMEA 2007 
1/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose is one drop in the affected eye(s) three times daily beginning 1 day prior to cataract surgery, 
continued on the day of surgery and for up to 3 weeks of the postoperative period. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
NEVANAC  is  formulated  as  a  sterile,  preserved,  multi-dose  aqueous  suspension  for  topical 
ophthalmic application (eye drops), containing 1 mg of nepafenac (active substance) per ml (0.1 %). 
Nepafenac is an anti-inflammatory prodrug which is converted to amfenac by intraocular hydrolases. 
Excipients used in preparation of NEVANAC are those typically used in ophthalmic formulations. It 
contains benzalkonium chloride as a preservative, disodium edetate as a preservative aid and chelating 
agent, sodium chloride and mannitol as a tonicity agents, tyloxapol as a wetting agent, carbomer as a 
suspending agent and purified water as a vehicle. Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid is used for 
pH adjustment.  
NEVANAC  is  light  yellow  to  dark  yellow  uniform  suspension.  It  is  packaged  in  8 ml  bottles  made 
with low-density polyethylene (LDPE). The bottle is equipped with a plastic dispensing plug made of 
low density polyethylene (LDPE) and plastic closure made of white polypropylene (PP). 
Active Substance 
Nepafenac  is  chemically  designated  as  2-(2-Amino-3-benzoylphenyl) acetamide  or  2-Amino-3-
benzoylbenzeneacetamide. The structure of nepafenac is shown in figure 1. 
Figure 1: Chemical structure of nepafenac 
Nepafenac  is  yellow  crystalline  or  powdery  substance  practically  insoluble  in  water.  An  aqueous 
suspension at 0.1 % gives an average pH of 6.75. The coefficient partition n-octanol/water is 128. This 
substance melts at approximately 185 ºC and it does not show polymorphism. Nepafenac is an achiral 
substance and there are no possible variations in the stereochemical configuration. 
•  Manufacture 
Information about the manufacturing process has been provided using an ASMF procedure. A three-
step  synthesis  followed  by  a  final  crystallization  has  been  well  described,  critical  parameters  and 
accompanying  in-process  controls  have  been  defined.  Possible  impurities,  including  their  origin  and 
the  main  degradation  pathways,  have  been  characterized.  Appropriate  specifications  and  limits  have 
been  established  for  residual  solvents.  No  metal  catalysts  are  used  during  the  manufacture  and 
therefore a standard pharmacopoeial limit and method was proposed. 
Confirmation of the chemical structure of nepafenac was provided by elemental analysis (confirmation 
of  the  determined  elementary  composition)  and  spectroscopic  methods  as  UV,  FT-IR,  1H-NMR  and 
13C-NMR,  2D-NMR  (2D-COSY  and  2D-HETCOR),  MS  (EI  and  CI)  and  X-ray  powder  diffraction. 
The  assessment  of  possible  polymorphism  has  been  performed  by  re-crystallisation  of  the  drug 
substance in various solvents of different polarities and at different rates. Although re-crystallisation 
@EMEA 2007 
2/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resulted  in  material  of  various  appearance,  there  was  no  evidence  of  the  formation  of  polymorphic 
forms of nepafenac. 
Since  the  formulated  product  is  aseptically  prepared  using  gamma  irradiated  drug  substance  a  few 
batches  of  gamma  irradiated  nepafenac  were  stored  for  1 year,  but  showed  no  evidence  of 
polymorphism. 
•  Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  physical  appearance,  colour  and  clarity  of  the 
solution, identification (IR and HPLC), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), loss 
on drying, heavy metals, sulphated ash and bioburden.  
The proposed analytical methods have been validated with regard to relevant guidelines and include 
specificity,  repeatability,  linearity  and  precision,  limit  of  quantification,  accuracy  and  robustness  as 
appropriate.  No  validation  was  performed  for  the  methods  described  in  the  Ph. Eur.  In  general, 
analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the drug substance. 
Data was provided on 5 batches of nepafenac all of which were manufactured using the commercial 
route. All the batches complied with the requirements in the drug substance specification. 
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  5  batches  of  the  drug  substance.  Data  was  provided  for 
batches  stored  up  to  52 months  at  25 °C/60 % RH  (long  term  storage  conditions)  and  for  batches 
stored for 6 months at 40 °C/75 % RH (accelerated conditions). Additionally, data from photostability 
study (UV irradiation) and from short-term stressed degradation studies (including exposure to heat, 
acid and base degradation, oxidative and reductive conditions) was provided. The stability of the drug 
substance exposed to gamma irradiation has also been studied. The data showed that gamma irradiated 
nepafenac meets the requirements of the drug substance specification and no changes in the impurity 
profile or in the crystalline form were observed.  
The stability studies demonstrated that the drug substance is stable and confirmed the proposed re-test 
period. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  objective  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  develop  a  stable,  well-preserved  sterile 
suspension.  Suspension  was  developed  due  to  the  poor  aqueous  solubility  of  the  drug  substance. 
NEVANAC is formulated as an isotonic aqueous suspension with physiological pH. The choice and 
function  of  the  excipients  in  the  formulation  has  been  adequately  described  and  justified. 
Benzalkonium chloride was used as a preservative agent because it is a broad spectrum antimicrobial 
preservative which has been successfully used in topical ophthalmic formulations. The efficacy of the 
selected preservative system even at the lower limit concentrations of the shelf-life specifications has 
been  demonstrated.  Carbomer,  a  viscosity  modifying  agent,  was  used  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
suspension of nepafenac particles. The concentration of this agent was based on the results from pre-
clinical corneal penetration study. Other excipients chosen for the formulations are: disodium edetate 
as a preservative aid and chelating agent, sodium chloride and mannitol as a tonicity agents, tyloxapol 
as a wetting agent and purified water as a vehicle. Sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid is used for 
pH adjustment. 
During  the  development  a  key  physiochemical  characteristics  relevant  for  the  product  performance 
(particle size, polymorphism and uniformity/homogeneity of dose) have been identified and analysed. 
The  proposed  manufacturing  process  ensures  uniform  particle  size  in  the  suspension.  The  results  of 
extensive studies on polymorphism proved that that the formation of polymorphs in the suspension is 
@EMEA 2007 
3/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  likely  to  occur.  NEVANAC  has  been  developed  to  be  a  homogeneous  suspension  which  shows 
minimal  sedimentation  and  is  easily  resuspendable.  The  resuspendability  has  been  evaluated  and  it 
was proven that the product is resuspended within five seconds. The homogeneity of the suspension 
and uniform content of nepafenac within a batch and within each drop has been studied and proven.  
The  choice  of  sterilisation  method  has  been  justified.  In  the  proposed  sterilisation  method  the  drug 
substance  is  gamma  sterilised  prior  to  aseptic  addition  of  milling  slurry.  Terminal  sterilisation  was 
considered  but  was  not  possible  because  of  the  heat  liability  of  the  primary  packaging.  Steam 
sterilisation  of  the  final  bulk  suspension  could  not  be  used  because  the  nepafenac  drug  substance  is 
heat sensitive.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients used in the formulation of the drug product are of human or animal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is composed of five major steps: 
1)  Preparation  of  milling  slurry:  transfer  of  tyloxapol  solution  to  milling  tank,  addition  of  beads 
and  steam  sterilisation  followed  by  aseptic  addition  of  gamma  sterilised  drug  substance  and 
aseptic ball milling. 
2)  Preparation  of  the  vehicle  concentrate  (containing  soluble  ingredients)  and  carbomer  slurry 
followed by pH adjustment and bulk sterilisation. 
3)  Aseptic separation of the milling slurry from the beads, addition of the slurry to the reactor with 
the  vehicle  concentrate  followed  by  rinsing  of  the  beads  and  bringing  the  batch  to  the  final 
weight. 
4)  Sterile  filling  of  a  sterile  suspension  to  previously  sterilised  packaging  components  (ethylene 
oxide). 
5)  Secondary packaging. 
Critical steps of the manufacturing process have been identified and are sufficiently controlled by in-
process control testing. The used in-process controls are considered satisfactory to guarantee the drug 
product of an appropriate quality. 
The manufacturing process has been validated using three commercial scale batches manufactured at 
the commercial manufacturing site. All critical steps of the process were covered by validation studies. 
 Batch analysis data indicate satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the proposed specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The finished product specifications include test for appearance, drug substance identification (HPLC 
and  TLC),  drug  substance  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  benzalkonium  chloride  identification 
and  assay  (HPLC),  disodium  edentate  identification  and  assay  (HPLC),  pH,  particle  size  (HIAC), 
osmolality, resuspendability, viscosity, fill volume, sterility. 
All methods used for testing the drug product have been satisfactorily validated. The HPLC methods 
have been validated for accuracy, precision, specificity, linearity, range, robustness, limit of detection 
and  quantitation.  A  light  obscuration  method  utilising  a  commercial  HIAC  instrument  used  for  the 
determination  of  particle  size  has  also  been  validated.  Validation  for  methods  described  in  Ph.  Eur. 
was  deemed  to  be  unnecessary.  Selected  analytical  methods  and  proposed  limits  for  a  release  and 
stability testing of the drug product are considered appropriate for control of an ophthalmic product. 
@EMEA 2007 
4/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  for  three  commercial  scale  batches  of  the  drug  product  stored  at  25 ºC/40 %RH  and 
30 ºC/65 %RH  up  to  78 weeks  have  been  provided.  In  addition  stability  data  from  accelerated 
40 ºC/NMT 25 %RH, intermediated 4 ºC/35 %RH, photo-stability and freeze-thaw cycle studies were 
provided.  The  overall  stability  data  showed  that  NEVANAC  is  chemically,  physically  and 
microbiologically stable. 
In-use  stability  study  has  been  performed  on  two  commercial  scale  batches.  The  provided  in-use 
stability data supported proposed 28-day in-use period.  
In summary, the stability results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The excipients used in the 
preparation  of  the  finished  product  and  the  manufacturing  process  selected  are  appropriate  for  an 
ophthalmic  preparation.  The  results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  active  substance  and  the  finished 
product can be reproducibility manufactured and therefore the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance.   
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve 
this as Follow-Up Measure after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Nepafenac  is  a  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  and  analgesic  prodrug.  After  topical  ocular  dosing, 
nepafenac  penetrates  the  cornea  and  is  converted  by  ocular  tissue  hydrolases  to  amfenac,  a 
nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug.  Amfenac  inhibits  the  action  of  prostaglandin  H  synthase 
(cyclooxygenase), an enzyme required for prostaglandin production.  
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  were  conducted  to  characterize  anti-inflammatory  activity  of  nepafenac. 
Nepafenac, the carboxamide analog of 2-amino-3-benzoylbenzeneacetic acid, is the prodrug form of 
the  above  mentioned  nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug,  amfenac,  and  is  as  such  an  intrinsically 
weak  inhibitor  of  cyclooxygenase  (prostaglandin  H  synthase).  However,  its  active  metabolite, 
amfenac,  results  in  a  high  inhibition  of  cyclooxygenase  activity.  Both  nepafenac  and  amfenac  are 
slightly less potent than diclofenac, but show the same preference of COX-1 to COX-2. 
As  an  uncharged  prodrug,  nepafenac  exhibits  high  rates  of  corneal  penetration  in  vitro,  readily 
providing  intraocular  hydrolases  with  drug-substrate  for  the  formation  of  the  active  metabolite, 
amfenac.  The  high  suppression  of  cyclooxygenase  is  attributable  to  a  time-dependent,  irreversible 
inactivation  of  the  enzyme.  While  this  inactivation  is  irreversible,  the  creation  of  new  functional 
enzyme  is  not  suppressed.  Therefore,  the  reduction  of  enzyme  concentration  is  not  itself  permanent 
and  thus  does  not  adversely  affect  long-term  cellular  responses.  The  lipoxygenase  pathway  and 
occurrence of possible adverse effects mediated by lipoxygenase derived mediators (leukotrienes) has 
not  been  investigated.  However,  it  is  not  a  major  concern  taking  into  account  the  short  duration  of 
treatment.  
Rates of in vitro bioactivation of nepafenac are in the order of retina/choroid > iris/ciliary > cornea. 
Following a single topical ocular dose, nepafenac distributes locally both to the iris/ciliary body and 
@EMEA 2007 
5/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
retina/choroid  where,  upon  bioactivation  (hydrolysis),  it  effectively  suppresses  ex  vivo  prostaglandin 
synthesis. Sustained suppression of prostaglandin synthesis is seen for a period of more than 6 hours in 
the iris/ciliary body. Similar inhibitory effects, although slightly lower in magnitude, are observed ex 
vivo in tissue of the retina/choroid. As a consequence of its ocular biodistribution and bioactivation by 
intraocular tissues, a single topical prophylactic dose of nepafenac effectively inhibits trauma-induced 
aqueous humor PGE2 accumulation and concomitant breakdown of the blood aqueous barrier in vivo, 
with  a  maximum  efficacy  (60%  inhibition)  described  with  a  single  administration  of  a  0.3  mg/ml 
formulation  of  nepafenac  that  is  maintained  throughout  the  highest  concentration  tested  (3  mg/ml). 
Assessment of the duration of suppression of protein accumulation in the aqueous humor following a 
single  topical  ocular  dose  of  nepafenac  1  mg/ml  revealed  an  immediate  suppression  of  vascular 
leakage that was sustained for a duration of at least 8 hours. While Diclofenac 1 mg/ml inhibited the 
vascular  permeability  response  for  4  hours  post-dosing,  but  failed  to  do  so  at  the  8  hour  time-point. 
Drug efficacy is also observed in a more stringent Concanavalin A-induced panretinal inflammation 
model  where  topical  nepafenac  administration  leads  to  significant  reductions  in  retinal  edema  and 
blood-aqueous and blood-retinal barrier leakage.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
retinal 
Secondary  pharmacology  studies  evaluated 
neovascularization.  These  included  in  vitro  assessments  of  VEGF-induced  tube  formation  of  human 
and bovine retinal microvascular endothelial cells cultured in a vitronectin/fibronectin/laminin gel. In 
these studies, amfenac, the active metabolite of nepafenac, effectively inhibited tube formation.  
the  ability  of  nepafenac 
to  suppress 
The in vitro work was accompanied by in vivo evaluations of the efficacy of topically dosed nepafenac 
in  several  animal  models  of  neovascularization  and  diabetic  retinopathy.  The  administration  of  1 
mg/ml  nepafenac  four  times  a  day,  resulted  in  a  significant  suppression  (55%)  of  preretinal 
neovascularization when compared to vehicle treatment in a rat model of oxygen-induced retinopathy. 
A transgenic mouse model of VEGF overexpression found that 1 mg/ml nepafenac caused a reduction 
(43%) in retinal neovascularization. Several studies examined the effect of 0.3–5 mg/ml nepafenac on 
laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and found a dose-dependent inhibition of CNV of 
up to 78%. Nepafenac 5 mg/ml caused a qualitative decrease in choroidal endothelial cell proliferation 
in a rabbit model of lipid peroxide induced CNV.  
A separate study assessed the ability of nepafenac (3 mg/ml) to inhibit VEGF-induced retinal vascular 
permeability in the rabbit. When administered four-times-daily, nepafenac (3 mg/ml) was ineffective 
in preventing VEGF-induced retinal vascular leakage.  
In a rat model of streptozotocin-induced diabetes, nepafenac produced significant reduction in retinal 
leukostasis,  PGE2,  and  superoxide  formation,  as  well  as  TUNEL-positive  capillary  cells,  acellular 
capillaries, pericyte ghosts, and oscillatory potential changes; while showing no significant effect on 
VEGF expression, or the hyperglycemic state of diabetic and nondiabetic control.  
From  the  acute  safety  pharmacology  study  it  can  be  concluded  that  nepafenac  does  not  show 
anaesthetic  properties  after  application  at  a  single  dose  level.  Although  a  direct  analysis  of  the 
anaesthetic  properties  of  nepafenac  was  not  completed  in  the  preclinical  safety  evaluations,  known 
adverse effects of chronic exposure to anaesthetic drugs such as corneal opacity, queratitis or delayed 
wound healing or epithelial defects following corneal incision, were not observed in the repeat dose 
topical  ocular  studies.  A  recent  publication  investigated  the  anaesthetic  properties  of  nepafenac  and 
other  NSAIDs  in  cats  and  in  cultured  mice  trigeminal  ganglion  neurons  concluded  that  nepafenac 
inhibited the polymodal nocioceptor activity in cat corneas; however, it did not significantly suppress 
sodium  currents  in  the  mice  trigeminal  ganglion  neurons,  demonstrating  that  nepafenac  does  not 
exhibit local anaesthetic effects. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  investigated  the  effects  of  nepafenac  on  the  central  and  autonomic 
nervous, cardiovascular, pulmonary, gastrointestinal, metabolic and renal systems. In vitro studies at 1, 
10 and 100 µM concentrations of nepafenac did not interact with 21 different receptors and binding 
@EMEA 2007 
6/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sites including steroid receptors, and 1 µM and 10 µM concentrations had no (statistically) significant 
effect on guinea pig ileum (smooth muscle) responses to acetylcholine, histamine and barium chloride.  
In  vivo  studies  showed  that  nepafenac  (3  mg/kg)  had  no  effect  on  general  behaviour,  body 
temperature,  or  electroshock-induced  convulsions.  At  the  same  concentration,  nepafenac  produced  a 
statistically  significant  increase  in  barbiturate-induced  sleep  time.  However,  the  increase  was  not 
considered to be clinically meaningful.  
The active  metabolite of nepafenac, amfenac, had no effect on the HERG tail current (a  measure of 
cardiac  repolarization)  at  concentrations  up  to  100  ng/ml.  Three  mg/kg  of  nepafenac  had  no 
statistically  significant  effect  on  phenylquinone-induced  writhing  and  1  mg/kg  administered 
subcutaneously  had  no  statistically  or  biologically  relevant  effects  on  pulmonary  or  cardiovascular 
functions  including  the  lead  II  ECG.  Likewise,  the  sodium  salt  of  amfenac  at  1.08  mg/kg  IV 
(cumulative  dose  1.55  mg/kg)  had  no  effect  on  blood  pressure,  heart  rate  or  lead  II  ECG,  including 
QTc  interval,  in  anesthetized  dogs.  Nepafenac  (0.1  to  3  mg/kg)  also  did  not  significantly  affect 
gastrointestinal motility, urine output, pH or electrolyte concentrations. Oral doses of 3 mg/kg showed 
no  gastric  ulcer  potential  and  topical  ocular  doses  up  to  500  µg  showed  no  anaesthetic  activity  in 
rabbits.  These  data  suggest  that  nepafenac  1  mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Suspension  will  not  exhibit  a 
significant side effect potential if administered as proposed. 
The  effect  of  NEVANAC  on  electroretinogram  (ERG)  (photopic  and  scotopic)  was  studied  in  a  9-
month repeat-dose topical ocular safety study in New Zealand F1 cross pigmented rabbits No adverse 
effects were observed from the provided data. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No nonclinical pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted with nepafenac or amfenac. 
The low systemic exposure following topical ocular administration of nepafenac and its pharmacology 
make significant drug interactions unlikely. Additionally, topical ocular NSAIDs should be used with 
caution  in  patients  who  are  receiving  other  medications  which  prolong  bleeding  time  or  in  patients 
with known bleeding tendencies or patients with a known history of peptic ulceration. 
Although the applicant has not conducted pharmacodynamic interaction studies, the lack of such data 
could be considered justified taking into account the low systemic exposure to nepafenac in humans, 
and  also  that  no  drug  interactions  were  reported  so  far  in  any  clinical  study  involving  nepafenac  1 
mg/ml EyeDrops.  
Pharmacokinetics 
(cid:131)  Methods 
In  the  non-clinical  studies,  amfenac  amide  and  its  hydrolysis  product,  amfenac,  were  determined  in 
plasma  by  HPLC/tandem  mass  spectrometry  (HPLC/MS/MS).  The  method  of  analysis,  validated  in 
plasma  from  rats,  rabbits  and  cynomolgus  monkeys,  demonstrated  for  both  analytes  in  the  three 
matrixes fully adequate accuracy, precision, specificity and stability for routine analysis of GLP study 
samples, with detection limits between 0.025 to 75 ng/mL. 
In single dose absorption studies there was no indication of GLP fulfilment. 
(cid:131)  Absorption and bioavailability 
All studies following a single dose were performed only in males, so it was not possible to compare 
sex differences in pharmacokinetic parameters. However, toxicokinetic studies (repeated doses) were 
performed  in  both  sexes  and  no  significant  differences  between  males  and  females  were  observed. 
Amfenac  amide  is  hydrolysed  to  amfenac  in  vivo.  Studies  in  rats,  rabbits  and  monkeys  utilizing 
different routes of administration (intravenous, oral, topical ocular) showed that plasma concentrations 
of amfenac amide and amfenac declined with half-lives of less than one hour. However the terminal 
elimination phase could not be captured due to low assay sensitivity in these experiments. Plasma half-
lives of total radioactivity were longer than amfenac amide and amfenac ranging from 20 hours in rats 
to  50  hours  in  monkeys.  Although  the  plasma  half-lives  of  total  radioactivity  were  longer,  initial 
@EMEA 2007 
7/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plasma  radioactivity  concentration  declined  rapidly.  The  radioactivity  in  the  terminal  phase  may  be 
due to the presence of minority metabolites.  
The absolute oral bioavailability of amfenac amide in rats is low, approximately 6%, and it could be 
due  to  first  pass  metabolism;  however,  the  possibility  of  enterohepatic  recycling  had  not  been 
investigated. The percentage of the dose reaching the systemic circulation as amfenac is substantially 
higher.  The  percentage  of  a  radiolabeled  dose  of  amfenac  amide  absorbed  is  substantially  higher  at 
approximately 85%. 
Following  the  topical  ocular  dose  in  male  rabbits,  the  higher  amfenac  concentration  may  be  due  to 
enzymatic  hydrolysis  of  amfenac  amide  to  amfenac.  Based  on  AUC0-inf,  the  ratio  of  amfenac  to 
amfenac  amide  was  approximately  10:1.  The  systemic  bioavailability  (%F)  of  amfenac  amide  by 
topical ocular dosing route was high. 
In repeated dose studies amfenac amide was topically administered to rabbits for a period of 6 months, 
to cynomolgus monkeys for a period of 3 months, and orally administered to rats and for a period of 6 
months.  The  plasma  AUC  or  Cmax  remained  constant  during  the  time,  indicating  a  non  cumulative 
process of elimination. In addition, these parameters showed no differences regarding sex. Increasing 
the dose produced a proportional increment in Cmax and AUC in rabbits, monkeys and rats.  
Based on studies provided pregnancy seemed not to influence the absorption of the Amfenac Amide.  
(cid:131)  Distribution 
With respect to distribution in ocular tissues following the single 30 ng topical ocular dose of amfenac 
amide, plasma concentrations of amfenac amide and amfenac were low (2 and 6 ng/lm, respectively). 
Highest concentrations of both were observed in tissues associated with the site of dosing (conjunctive 
and cornea). Both amfenac amide and amfenac tissue concentrations generally declined in a biphasic 
manner.  Level  of  exposure  in  conjunctiva  and  cornea  (AUC0-8h)  for  amfenac  were  3.5  and  4  fold 
higher than those for amfenac amide. The radioactivity was absorbed into the eye following a topical 
ocular dose of a 0.3% 14C-amfenac amide to the New Zealand white rabbits and Dutch Belted rabbits 
and  distributed  to  posterior  ocular  tissues  by  local  distribution  of  the  drug.  The  results  showed  that 
amfenac amide and its metabolites, probably did not bind to melanin pigmented tissues.  
Distribution  in  tissues  was  investigated in  male  rats  after  oral  dose  of  14C  amfenac  amide.  Cmax  was 
reached  at  0.5h  for  most  tissues  following  single  or  multiple  oral  dose,  indicating  rapid  absorption 
under both dose regimens. Accumulation of 14C-amfenac amide was evident in all tissues following 14 
daily  oral  doses  (and  for  majority  of  tissues  for  single  dose),  indicated  by  concentration  ratios 
(multiple  dose:single  dose)  and  relative  AUC0-last.  Elimination  half  –lives  following  multiple  dosing 
were generally higher than after a single dose, and tissue half lives were longer than plasma half-lives. 
The observed plasma radioactivity half lives following single and multiple doses were longer than the 
half-life observed in the pharmacokinetic study following oral administration of 3 mg/kg 14C- amfenac 
amide to male rats.  
Oral  administration  of  14C-  amfenac  amide  to  rat  dams  on  day  12  and  18  of  gestation  resulted  in 
distribution  of  radioactivity  to  maternal  tissues  and  placental  transfer  of  radioactivity  into  the 
developing  fetus.  Absorption  and  distribution  of  radioactivity  to  maternal  tissues  occurred  rapidly 
(Tmax=0.5h).  Since  samples  were  only  collected  up  to  24  hours,  tissue  half  –lives  may  be 
underestimated. 
Radioactive  drug  equivalents  were  secreted  into  milk  following  oral  administration.  Milk:plasma 
ratios were less than unity and levels of radioactivity in milk and plasma declined with similar half-
lives.  
14C- amfenec amide binds with high affinity (72-84%) to plasma proteins of rat, monkey and human in 
vitro  in  a  concentration  independent  manner  over  the  concentration  range  10  to  1000  ng/mL.  The 
extent of plasma protein binding 14C- amfenac amide between these species was similar.  
@EMEA 2007 
8/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Metabolism 
In the eye amfenac amide is hydrolysed to its pharmacological active form, amfenac. Amfenac amide 
is metabolized to amfenac and to more polar metabolites involving hydroxylations of the aromatic ring 
and  glucuronide  conjugate  formation  in  all  species  tested  by  i.v  administration  (rats,  monkeys  and 
humans).  The  circulating  plasma  metabolites  in  human  and  monkey  are  primarily  in  the  form  of 
conjugates  whereas  those  in  rats  are  not  conjugated.  Metabolites  observed  in urine  from  human  and 
monkeys are in the form of conjugates. In rats majority of metabolites in urine were not conjugated. In 
all  species  amfenac  and  amfenac  amide  in  plasma  were  found  to  be  non-conjugated.  In  humans, 
amfenac  was  the  major  metabolite  and  represented  approximately  13  %  of  the  total  radioactivity  in 
plasma.  All  other  metabolites  had  percentages  of  less  than  10%.  Amfenac  amide  and  amfenac  were 
not  observed  in  urine.  Apart  from  amfenac,  the  most  abundant  human  plasma  metabolite  has  been 
identified as 5-hydroxy amfenac amide which represents about 9.5% of total radioactivity at Cmax.  
Incubation  of  14C-amfenac  amide  in  human  liver  slices  resulted  in  the  formation  of  12  metabolites. 
The  major  metabolite  found  was  amfenac.  Glucuronidase  mediated  hydrolysis  showed  these 
metabolites  to  be  a  mixture  of  conjugated  and  non-conjugated  metabolites.  Most  part  of  the 
metabolites found in plasma or urine in all species have not been identified.  
Plasma  concentrations  of  amfenac  amide  and  amfenac  of  up  to  at  least  1000  ng/ml  (approximately 
3000-fold higher than the observed mean plasma Cmax in humans (0.310 ± 0.104 ng/ml)), are not likely 
to  elicit  any  clinical  drug-drug  interaction  involving  cytochrome  P450-mediated  metabolism  of 
concomitantly administered drugs. 
When  nepafenac  or  amfenac  was  incubated  with  human  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  1A2,  2C9,  2C19, 
2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 isozymes, the only positive finding was a 36% inhibition of CYP2E1 activity at a 
single concentration >1000 ng/mL nepafenac. This indicates that plasma concentrations of nepafenac 
and  amfenac  up  to  1,000  ng/mL,  which  is  more  than  three  orders  of  magnitude  higher  than  the 
observed  mean  plasma  Cmax  in  humans  (nepafenac:  0.3  ng/mL;  amfenac:  0.4  ng/mL),  is  unlikely  to 
elicit  clinical  drug-drug 
involving  cytochrome  P450-mediated  metabolism  of 
concomitantly administered drugs. 
interactions 
Following repeated dose administrations of amfenac amide during 14 days, a statistically significant 
(p<0.05) increase in CYP4A activities (approximately 43 %) was observed in male rats. There was an 
apparent increase in UDPGT (Uridine diphosphate glucuronyltransferase) activities also in male rats. 
No other hepatic effects in males or females were observed.  
(cid:131)  Excretion 
Excretion  was  only  examined  following  intravenous  administration.  Excretion  was  very  rapid,  with 
nearly 90% of the dose recovered in excreta by 24 hours post-dose. The primary route of excretion of 
radioactivity  was  via  urine  (≈58%),  excretion  in  feces  was  also  high  (≈40%),  therefore  there  is 
enterohepatic recycling.  
Toxicology 
The toxicology programme included single dose studies (oral route), repeat-dose studies (oral and 
topical) of up to 6-months duration in several species. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No single-dose toxicity study has been carried out by the topical route of administration, although it is 
not a major concern since topical ocular repeat-dose toxicity studies have been conducted with high 
doses without any significant toxicity. 
Amfenac  amide  was  systemically  well  tolerated  in  mice  with  an  oral  LD50 value  greater  than  2000 
mg/kg and IP LD50 value greater than 1000 mg/kg for both sexes. Systemic administration of amfenac 
amide in rats show oral LD50 values greater than 100 mg/kg in males and greater than 500 mg/kg in 
females while when the IP route was tested, LD50 values were greater than 250 mg/kg in males and 
greater than 100mg/kg in females. 
@EMEA 2007 
9/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Oral administration 
Conventional  oral  (gavage)  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  for  a  duration  of  2 
weeks,  3  months  and  6  months,  respectively.  In  the  2-week  study,  the  NOAEL  was  7.5  mg/kg/day 
based on decreases in RBC parameters. In the 3-month study, the NOAEL was 1 mg/kg/day in males 
based on RBC counts, and 5 mg/kg/day in females based on renal papillary necrosis. In the pivotal 6-
month study, the NOAEL was 3 mg/kg/day based on reduced RBC parameters in males and increased 
absolute  kidney  and  liver  weights  in  females.  In  both  cases  findings  were  not  accompanied  by 
histopathological changes. 
After  systemic  repeated  administration  of  amfenac  amide  in  rats,  a  common  finding  in  nonsteroidal 
anti-inflamatory  drugs  is  renal  papillary  necrosis,  which  appeared  only  in  females  treated  at  15 
mg/kg/day  by  gavage  during  3  months.  This  was  not  observed  at  lower  dose  levels  during  3  or  6 
months of treatment or at higher dose levels (up to 25 mg/kg) during two weeks of treatment by the 
same route. Gastric irritation was not observed at any dose level in any study. 
In mice adverse effects (only observed in the two-week study) such as serositis in jejunum, mesenteric 
lymphoid hyperplasia, EMH in spleen and liver and uterine dilatation found in treated females but not 
in  control  groups,  indicated  that  a  treatment  relationship  could  not  be  entirely  ruled  out.  However 
these  effects  appeared  at  elevated  dose  levels  (25  mg/kg/day)  compared  to  the  therapeutic  doses 
recommended in human treatment (2.4µg/kg/day). 
Five repeated-dose topical ocular studies were conducted, ranging in duration from 1 to 6 months in 
rabbits  and  monkeys.  Parameters  evaluated  on  these  studies  included  detailed  pharmacotoxic 
observations,  body  weights,  slit-lamp  biomicroscopic  ophthalmic  examinations,  indirect  ophthalmic 
examinations  and  corneal  pachymetry.  Also  serum  chemistry  and  hematology  evaluations,  organ 
weights,  macroscopic  and  microscopic  pathologic  evaluations  were  conducted  in  studies  at  3/6 
months. 
Topical administration 
All topical ocular repeated doses studies utilized an appropriate vehicle control group for each study. 
The 1-, 3-, and 6-month rabbit topical ocular studies each utilized a separate untreated control group in 
addition to the vehicle control group. In the 3-month monkey study the contralateral untreated eye was 
used as an untreated control. No significant ocular irritation or systemic toxicity following one, three 
or  six  months  of  daily topical  ocular  administration  in  rabbits  or  following  three  month  in  monkeys 
was  observed.  The  NOAEL  was  the  highest  dose  evaluated  in  each  of  these  studies.  A  summary  of 
repeated-dose topical ocular studies is tabulated below. 
@EMEA 2007 
10/39 
 
 
 
Table   1 
Summary of repeat-dose topical ocular toxicity studies 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Rabbit NZW/both/4 
by sex and dose 
level 
Rabbit NZW/both/4 
by sex and dose 
level 
Rabbit 
NZW/both/10 by 
sex and dose level 
Rabbit NZW x 
NZR/both / 7 by 
sex and dose level 
monkeys 
(cynomolgus) /both 
/4 by sex and dose 
level 
Dose/Route 
Duration  NOEL/ NOAEL
Major findings 
0,1,3,10 mg/ml 
OD,QID/Topical ocular 
(with corneal incision) 
0,1,3,10 mg/ml 
OU,QID/Topical ocular
0,1,3,10 mg/ml 
OU,QID/Topical ocular
0, 3, 10 and 15 mg/ml 
OD,TID/Topical ocular
1 month 
10 mg/ml 
1 month 
10 mg/ml 
3 month 
10 mg/ml 
6 month 
15 mg/ml 
Minimal  conjunctival 
congestion 
and 
discharge  
No treatment-related 
findings  
No treatment-related 
findings 
No treatment-related 
findings. 
0,1,3,10 mg/ml 
OD,QID/Topical ocular
3 month 
10 mg/ml 
No treatment-related 
findings 
aOD = right eye;  bQID = four times a day; cTID = three times a day; dOU = both eyes 
A  low  ocular  irritation  potential  was  seen  in  rabbits  when  Nepafenac  suspension  was  administered 
prior  and  subsequent  to  a  corneal  incision.  There  were  no  postoperative  ocular  complications  or 
unexpected  findings  in  any  group,  and  there  was  no  evidence  that  post-incision  treatment  with 
nepafenac 1 mg/ml to 10 mg/ml resulted in ocular irritation or delayed wound healing. 
Slight decreases in body weights (less than 10%) were seen in males treated at 5 and 15 mg/kg/day 
during 3 months but since a similar effect was not observed at 10 mg/kg/day in the 6-months study, it 
is not considered to be relevant. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The standard battery for genotoxic assessment has been conducted in four studies, three in vitro and 
one in vivo. No evidence of mutagenic activity was observed in the bacterial reverse mutation assay 
and  in  the  in  vitro  mammalian  gene  mutation  assay.  In  the  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration  assay 
positive  results  were  found  with  and  without  S9  but  only  at  dose  levels  where  precipitation  was 
observed  with  no  other  relation  to  dose.  This  response  was  not  observed  in  the  in  vivo  mouse  bone 
marrow  micronuclei  test.  Therefore,  the  risk  of  genotoxic  potential  of  amfenac  amide  can  be 
considered low.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Following  a  review  of  ICH  Topic  S1A  Guideline  on  the  Need  for  Carcinogenicity  Studies  of 
Pharmaceuticals, it was determined that carcinogenicity studies were not needed to support the safety 
of nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops Suspension based on the chemical class, short duration of therapy 
(up  to  23  days),  low  systemic  exposure  potential,  and  non-clinical  toxicology  study  results  which 
showed no evidence of preneoplastic lesions in rats dosed daily for 6 months with up to 10 mg/kg/day 
of nepafenac. Furthermore, results from published information (of unknown GLP status) of available 
carcinogenicity data support the systemic safety of nepafenac’s active metabolite, amfenac. It should 
be noted that the quality of information of carcinogenicity studies is very limited due to only a brief 
statement of results reported. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Amfenac amide was administered to male and female rats at doses of 0, 3, 10, 15 and 30 mg/kg to test 
fertility  and early  development.  The  dose  of  30  mg/kg  produced severe  clinical  findings  and  related 
deaths.  
@EMEA 2007 
11/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table   2 
Summary of reproductive and developmental toxicity studies 
Study type 
Species/ 
number/ 
sex/group 
Study 
design 
Dose levels 
(mg/kg/day) 
Principal findings 
Male 
fertility 
Female 
fertility 
Rat/25 
Segment I 
0, 3, 10, 
15, 
30 
NOAEL = 10 mg/kg/day based on reduced 
body weight gain and sperm motility 
parameters 
Rat/25 
Segment I 
0, 3, 10, 15, 
30 
NOAEL = 3 mg/kg/day based on number of 
viable foetuses  
Rat/25 
Segment II 
0, 3, 10, 30 
Embryo-
foetal 
development 
Rabbit/20 
Segment II 
0, 3, 10, 30 
Peri- and 
postnatal 
development 
Rat/25 
Two-
generation 
Segment 
III  
0, 3, 10, 15, 
30 
Maternal NOAEL = 10 mg/kg/day based on 
mortality 
Foetal NOAEL = 10 mg/kg/day based on 
foetal body weight and skeletal variations 
Maternal NOAEL = 3 mg/kg/day based on 
abortions and clinical signs suggestive of 
aspiration pneumonia 
Foetal NOAEL = 10 mg/kg/day based on 
external, visceral and/or skeletal 
malformations 
Maternal LOAEL = 3 mg/kg/day based on 
mortality following initiation of parturition 
F1 offspring NOAEL = 3 mg/kg/day based 
on pup viability 
F2 offspring NOAEL = 30 mg/kg/day 
Fertility studies 
The main clinical observation was yellow coloured urine that was present in a dose-related manner at 
all dosage levels. At the dose of 15 mg/kg, males and females showed food consumption, bodyweight 
and bodyweight gain depression, which was statistically significant for certain periods, but not for the 
whole period. The bodyweight depression was nevertheless lower than 4%. During gestation, females 
did not show any adverse effect on bodyweight or food consumption. 
The most relevant reproductive effect was a statistically significant reduction of the sperm motility in 
the group receiving 15 mg/kg. In addition, sperm concentration was reduced as well; however values 
recorded fell into the range of the historical control data.  
The fertility index decreased, especially at 15 mg/kg. Thus, the fertility index was 100%, 95.8%, 92% 
and  88%  for  0,  3,  10  and  15  mg/kg,  respectively.  At  caesarean,  the  number  of  viable  fetuses  was 
reduced  at  10  and  15  mg/kg,  while  the  average  number  of  early  resorptions  was  also  decreased. 
Therefore, a parental/reproductive NOAEL of 3 mg/kg bw/day was selected.  
With respect to the applicant’s explanation on fertility parameters in males, it is agreed that the data 
suggest that at levels below 10 mg/kg/day or lower, effects on male reproductive effects by nepafenac 
in rats are not anticipated. This provides a significant safety margin given the low systemic exposure 
during clinical use of nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension.  
In  addition  organ  weights  were  not  collected  during  the  conduct  of  the  fertility  and  general 
reproduction study, however female organ weights in rats were taken in the 6- month rat oral dosing 
study; no significant changes were noted in female reproductive organ weights. 
Embryo-fetal studies 
The  administration  of  amfenac  amide  at  3,  10  and  30  mg/kg  bw/day  to  pregnant  rats  resulted  to  be 
non-teratogenic.  Toxicity  in  the  dams  was  manifested  at  30  mg/kg,  with  a  statistically  significant 
@EMEA 2007 
12/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
depression of the food consumption, bodyweight and bodyweight gain regarding the group of controls. 
At the dose of 10 mg/kg the food consumption also was decreased.  
Developmental  effects  were  evident  at  30  mg/kg;  the  mean  fetal  weight  decreased  statistically  (by 
5.7% regarding controls) and also, an increased incidence of fetuses with unossified sternebrae #5 or 
#6, and a marginal increase in the incidence of pre-implantation loss. In addition, one 30 mg/kg/day 
female  had  nine  dead  foetuses,  six  resorptions  and  no  viable  foetuses.  Therefore,  the  NOAEL  for 
parental  toxicity  could be  established  in  10  mg/kg/day  and  NOAEL  for  developmental  effects  in  10 
mg/kg/day. In a separate toxicokinetic study in pregnant rats, 10 mg/kg/day dams had mean terminal 
AUC-values equal to 207 ng.h/mL of nepafenac, corresponding to a safety margin in excess of 500. 
The  administration  of  amfenac  amide  to  rabbits  resulted  to  be  less  toxic  compared  to  rats.  Rabbits 
were  provided  with  0,  3,  10  and  30  mg/kg  bw/day.  In  the  10  mg/kg  group,  one  female  aborted  on 
GD18.  At  30  mg/kg,  one  female  was  found  dead  on  GD19,  one  female  aborted  on  GD21,  and  one 
female delivered prematurely on GD29. With the exception of the female found dead, all of the above 
females  had  clinical  signs  prior  to  abortion  or  premature  delivery  including  laboured  breathing, 
decreased activity, cool to the touch, few or no faeces, soft or mucoid stools, and faecal stain in the 
anogenital area. The remaining doses did not show evident clinical signs as a result of the treatment.  
At 30 mg/kg, the food consumption decreased slightly from day 15 to 19 and the bodyweight gain was 
also  depressed  (50%  to  19%  regarding  controls)  for  day  12  to  24  of  gestation.  It  is  noted  that  this 
marginal  decrease  did  not  achieve  statistical  significance  and  animals  did  not  show  any  clinical 
finding.  Nevertheless,  females  dosed  with  30  mg/kg  showed  an  increased  incidence  of  early 
resorptions and a statistically significant increase in the incidence of post-implantation losses. When 
assessed  for  developmental  effects,  it  was  shown  that  the  incidence  of  litters  with  skeletal 
malformations and with total malformations increased at the highest dose of 30 mg/kg.  
The  maternal  NOAEL  was  considered  to  be  3  mg/kg  bw/day,  while  the  developmental  (foetal) 
NOAEL  was  10  mg/kg  bw/day.  In  a  separate  toxicokinetic  study,  10  mg/kg/day  dams  had  mean 
terminal AUC-values equal to 28.4 ng.h/mL of nepafenac. Based on mean steady state human AUC0-inf 
values  of  0.371  ng.h/mL  for  nepafenac  and  1.03  ng.h/mL  for  amfenac,  this  translates  into  safety 
margins in excess of 75 and 600, respectively. 
Pre-postnatal studies 
The  administration  of  amfenac  amide  at  doses  of  3,  10,  15  and  30mg/kg/day  to  pregnant  rats  from 
GD6  through  lactation  day  20  produced  evident  maternal  and  offspring  toxicity  in  the  first  F1 
generation but not in the second generation or F2.  
The dose of 30 mg/kg produced excessive toxicity to rats, including several deaths, making difficult 
the assessment due to the reduced number of rats. Moreover, signs of dystocia and deaths were evident 
at all doses. The bodyweight of pregnant rats decreased for the gestation and lactation at the dose of 15 
mg/kg.  The  bodyweight  gain  was  also  reduced  regarding  controls  during  the  whole  gestation  at  15 
mg/kg  and  at  initial  gestation  at  10  mg/kg.  The  caesarean  data  for  F1  litters  revealed  a  significant 
decrease in the number of implantations in those dams dosed with 15 mg/kg, reducing the litter size. 
Pup viability (0-4 days) and the average pup bodyweight were also statistically reduced at 15 mg/kg. 
Litter retrieval decreased statistically in this group of dosing.  
For F1 pups, eye opening, auditory response and preputial separation were not modified after amfenac 
treatment. Others, such as surface righting response, cliff aversion, startle response, vaginal opening 
and open field testing varied compared to controls at the dose of 10 mg/kg/day, but not at 15 mg/kg. 
Pinna detachment retarded in a dose-related manner at 15 and 30 mg/kg. T-maze testing data revealed 
increase  in  the  time  of  memory  recall  in  males  at  15  mg/kg.  In  learning  trials,  an  increased  time 
occurred in trial day 1 and 4 in females at 3 and 10 mg/kg and at trial day 4 in females at 15 mg/kg. 
F1 males showed reduced bodyweight at 10 and 15 mg/kg and were different from controls until day 
114 and 126, respectively. However, the females showed statistical reduction of the bodyweight only 
after 15 mg/kg administration and until day 38 of exposure. However, no clinical signs were adverted. 
@EMEA 2007 
13/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  addition,  evaluation  of  the  precoital  interval,  fertility  index,  gestation  length  and  the  number  of 
implantations  did  not  show  abnormalities.  At  scheduled  necropsy,  there  were  no  noticeable  gross 
lesions.  
Litter  data  (F2)  did  not  show  any  adverse  effect  regarding  litter  size,  sex  ratio,  no.  litters  with  live 
offspring  and  viability  index.  F2  weight  was  not  affected  in  this  generation.  In  addition,  no  clinical 
signs were developed. At scheduled necropsy no gross abnormalities were observed. 
A parental NOAEL was not selected based on the evidence of toxicity at all dose levels. The NOAEL 
for the offspring could be established in 3 mg/kg bw/day. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance was tested in a 1-month study in rabbits with experimental corneal incisions and in the 
course of the 3-month repeat-dose toxicity study in monkeys. Whereas the vehicle used for the rabbit 
study  contained  glycerine  in  place  of  mannitol,  the  final  formulation  was  employed  in  the  monkey 
study. In both studies, the suspension was well tolerated at dose levels up to 1.6 mg/day (4 x 40 µL x 
10 mg/mL), which is 7-fold higher than the maximum human exposure. 
Based on in the guinea pig maximization test Amfenac amide demonstrated no significant potential to 
cause hypersensitization. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
No  special  immunotoxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  amfenac  amide.  The  weight  of  evidence 
suggested  that  the  standard  toxicity  studies  can  be  considered  enough  to  assess  the  immunotoxic 
potential of amfenac amide and no additional inmunotoxicity studies were considered to be required. 
Dependence 
Amfenac  amide,  as  an  NSAID,  is  not  considered  a  CNS-active  medicinal  product  and  therefore  no 
dependence studies are considered to be necessary. 
Impurities 
Nepafenac  has  two  impurities  that  have  specifications  beyond  ICH  biological  qualification  limits. 
Impurity  AL-12384  present  in  the  drug  substance  was  biologically  qualified  in  the  rabbit  topical 
ocular, rat systemic dosing, and reproductive studies conducted with nepafenac. Impurity AL-39187A 
present  in  the  drug  product  did  not  elicit  any  signs  of  ocular  or  systemic  toxicity  in  the  one-month 
topical  ocular  rabbit  study.  With  regard  to  complete  genotoxicity  package  the  weight  of  evidence 
suggests that the risk of mutagenic potential for AL-39187A can be considered low. 
the  short  duration  of 
Photosafety 
Nepafenac absorbs light in the visible spectrum and is topically applied to the eye. According to the 
CHMP Note for Guidance on Photosafety it should therefore be tested for photoxicity, photoallergy, 
photogenotoxicity and photocarcinogenicity. The only study submitted is a conventional 3T3 BRU PT 
photoxicity  test,  which  was  unequivocally  negative.  Photocarcinogenicity  testing  is  not  warranted 
given 
to 
EMEA/CPMP/SWP/398/01, Note for Guidance on Photosafety Testing, the recognised photochemical 
genotoxicity  reactions  are  strongly  clastogenic  in  nature  and  suggest  that  a  test  for  photochemical 
clastogenicity be conducted, e.g. an in- vitro chromosome aberration assay. Nepafenac demonstrates a 
positive response in this in-vitro model in the absence and presence of metabolic activation following 
44  hours  of  exposure.  Since  it  is  likely  that  the  assay  will  have  a  positive  response  for  the  test 
conditions  conducted  both  in  the  absence  and  presence  of  a  UV  light  source,  the  results  would  not 
provide valid information regarding the in-vitro photogenotoxic potential of nepafenac. A warning to 
avoid sunlight during treatment with NEVANAC has been included in the SPC and the PL. 
to  photogenotoxicity,  according 
treatment.  With  regard 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The environmental risk assessment was carried out in accordance with the current guideline. Since the 
logKow  for  nepafenac  is  <4.5  (2.1),  screening  for  persistence,  bioaccumulation  and  toxicity  is  not 
@EMEA 2007 
14/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
required. Based on the maximum human exposure of 0.24 mg/day and a default penetration factor of 
0.01, PECsurface water is estimated at 0.0012 µg/L of nepafenac, which is one order of magnitude below 
the  stipulated  action  threshold  of  0.01  µg/L.  Given  the  limited  exposure,  NEVANAC  is  unlikely  to 
pose a risk to the environment. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Alcon  conducted  4  clinical  pharmacology  studies  (C-04-08,  C-05-08,  C-05-19,  C-04-27)  to 
characterize the pharmacokinetics and disposition of nepafenac:   
(cid:131)  Study C-04-27 was  a single-centre,  single-dose pharmacokinetic  study to evaluate excretion and 
recovery of drug-related radioactivity and metabolic profiles of 14C-nepafenac. The results of this 
study  show  that  drug-related  radioactivity  is  eliminated  primarily  by  renal  mechanism  after  oral 
administration  of  14C-nepafenac.    The  mean  total  recovery  of  radioactivity  from  the  urine  and 
feces  was  about  91.7%.    Metabolic  profiles  of  plasma  and  urine  samples  demonstrated  that 
nepafenac  is  extensively  metabolized  and  that  metabolites  circulate  as  glucuronide  conjugates, 
except  amfenac.    These  findings  suggest  that  metabolism  is  the  main  route  of  nepafenac 
elimination. 
(cid:131)  Study  C-04-08  was  a  single-centre,  multiple-dose,  double-masked,  randomized,  parallel  group 
study  aimed  to  characterise  the    single-  and  multiple-dose  (steady-state)  pharmacokinetics  of 
nepafenac  1  mg/ml  and  amfenac  16  healthy  subjects  following  topical  ocular  administration. 
Nepafenac 1 mg/ml was administered to both eyes TID for 3 days with a final morning dose on 
Day 4.  Quantifiable concentrations of nepafenac and amfenac were observed at the first sampling 
time  (10-min)  following  single  dose  administration  in  the  majority  of  subjects.    Nepafenac  and 
amfenac reached plasma Cmax, on average, within 0.21 ± 0.08 hours and 0.48 ± 0.10 hours post-
dose, respectively.  The mean plasma Cmax values were 0.276 ± 0.146 ng/ml and 0.293 ± 0.107 
ng/ml for nepafenac and amfenac, respectively.  The mean plasma concentrations declined with a 
mean t1/2 of 1.1 ± 0.4 hours for nepafenac and 1.5 ± 0.5 hours for amfenac. 
Following  multiple  dose  administration,  measurable  concentrations  of  nepafenac  (≥0.025  ng/ml) 
and amfenac  (≥0.05 ng/ml) were observed at the first sampling time (10  min) in the majority of 
subjects.    Nepafenac  and  amfenac  reached  plasma  Cmax,  on  average,  at  0.25  ±  0.10  hours  and 
0.55 ± 0.14  hours  post-dose,  respectively.    The  mean  plasma  Cmax  values  were  0.310  ±  0.104 
ng/ml and 0.422 ± 0.121 ng/ml for nepafenac and amfenac, respectively.  After the peak, plasma 
concentrations of nepafenac and amfenac declined with a mean t1/2 of 0.9 ± 0.2 hours and 1.6 ± 
0.3 hours, respectively.  
Based on the steady-state/single-dose ratio of individual Cmax values, the accumulation index was 
approximately  1.34  for  nepafenac  and  1.61  for  amfenac;  overall,  there  were  no  unexpected 
changes  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  nepafenac  or  amfenac  after  multiple  topical  ocular 
administration  of  nepafenac  1  mg/ml.    Based  on  the  observed  trough  values,  the  steady-state 
pharmacokinetics is achieved by Day 2 following TID dosing. 
@EMEA 2007 
15/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From  the  data  provided,  the  expected  systemic  exposure  to  nepafenac  and  its  active    metabolite 
(amfenac) following topical ocular administration of nepafenac 1mg/ml TID is low, and far from 
that  observed  when  amfenac  is  used  for  the  treatment  of  systemic  inflammation/pain  at  the 
recommended dose (i.e. 50mg).   
(cid:131)  Study  C-05-08  was  a  single-centre,  multiple-dose,  double-masked,  randomized,  parallel  group 
study  in  healthy  adults  Japanese  subjects  to  characterize  the  single-  and  multiple-dose  (steady-
state)  pharmacokinetics  of  nepafenac  and  amfenac.  Eligible  subjects  were  randomized  to 
nepafenac 1 mg/ml (8), nepafenac 3 mg/ml (7), or Vehicle (4). Subjects received one drop of test 
article in each eye TID for 14 days with the last dose in the morning of Day 15. The results of this 
study are consistent with those seen in Caucasian healthy subjects and demonstrate that systemic 
exposure to nepafenac/amfenac following topical ocular administration of nepafenac 1mg/ml TID 
is  low  and  far  from  that  observed  in  patients  who  receive  50mg  oral  doses  of  amfenac.  These 
findings  indicate  that  there  are  no  clinically  meaningful  ethnic  differences  in  the  systemic 
exposure  of  either  nepafenac  or  amfenac  following  topical  ocular  administration  of  nepafenac  1 
mg/ml.  Consistently,  accumulation  if  any  might  be  minor.  These  findings  also  suggest  that 
nepafenac Cmax and AUC0-inf values are dose proportional. 
Therefore, taking into account that the margin of safety will even be greater in clinical practice, 
since patients receiving nepafenac 1 mg/ml will typically dose one eye, not both as done in this 
study, systemic exposure might be even lower, which is reassuring. 
(cid:131)  Study C-05-19 was a  multi-centre, open-label, single-dose, randomized, parallel-group design in 
adult patients who required cataract surgery.  The objective of the study was to measure aqueous 
humor  concentrations  of  nepafenac  and  amfenac  or  ketorolac  following  1  drop  of  nepafenac  1 
mg/ml or ketorolac 4 mg/ml, respectively, before cataract surgery.   
After a single ocular drop of nepafenac 1 mg/ml, the maximum mean concentrations of nepafenac 
(177ng/ml)  and  amfenac  (44.8  ng/ml)  were  observed  at  1  hour  post-dose.  The  peak  mean 
concentration of ketorolac (37.4 ng/ml) was observed at 45 minutes post-dose. These data suggest 
that the timing of the sampling were insufficiently extended to properly assess the PK profile of 
nepafenac/anfenac  in  aqueous  humor  so  that  higher  concentrations  of  nepafenac  and  amfenac 
might have been achieved. In order to further characterise the intraocular PK profile of nepafenac 
following topical ocular administration, a new PK and PD single-dose study has been conducted 
(Study C-05-19). Aqueous sampling was collected up to 4 hours post-dose. These data show that 
nepafenac is rapidly absorbed, reaching Cmax in 30 min, while the Cmax of its active metabolite, 
amfenac,  is  reached  at  180  min  following  topical  ocular  administration  of  nepafenac.  Total 
exposure  to  amfenac  was  similar  to  that  of  ketorolac  4mg/ml.  Despite  the  observed  differences 
between  ketorolac  and  amfenac  in  the  time  needed  to  achieve  the  peak  plasma  concentrations, 
considering  the  proposed  posology  (starting  before  surgery),  it  is  quite  unlikely  that  these 
differences  would  be  of  clinical  relevance  (i.e.  in  the  start  of  the  analgesic/anti-inflammatory 
activity of both compounds). 
The concentration to COX-1 and COX-2 IC50 ratios for amfenac (0.649 and 1.07) were approximately 
200%  and  900%  higher,  respectively,  than  those  for  ketorolac  (0.302  and  0.116).  The  ratio  for 
nepafenac to COX-1 IC50 was much lower (>50-fold) than that for amfenac.  
The observed results suggest that a lower dose of nepafenac probably might have achieved sufficient 
efficacy with a better safety profile.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
•  Special populations 
Considering the intended route of administration and that systemic exposure is limited, specific studies 
in patients with renal or hepatic impairment were not deemed necessary. 
@EMEA 2007 
16/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender  was  not  studied  as  a  primary  objective.    Two  pharmacokinetic  studies  (C-04-08,  C-05-08) 
enrolled  both  male  and  female  subjects.    This  allowed  additional  data  analyses  to  examine  potential 
gender effects on the pharmacokinetics of nepafenac and amfenac. Results show that apparent gender 
differences  observed  in  the  plasma  pharmacokinetics  of  nepafenac  and  amfenac  were  small  and  not 
clinically relevant. 
Pharmacokinetics  in  the  elderly  has  not  been  specifically  studied.  Considering  that  this  treatment  is 
intended  for  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  inflammation  and  pain  secondary  to  cataract  surgery, 
elderly patients are expected to be the main target population.  This population has been extensively 
represented in the main studies presented to support the current Marketing Authorisation Application 
(MAA)  and  although  a  comparative  analysis  of  the  efficacy/safety  profile  as  compared  to  younger 
patients have not been performed, data provided allow concluding on the benefit/risk of this product in 
the target population and thus, additional PK data are not deemed necessary.  
Paediatrics has not been included in the studies supporting the MAA for NEVANAC. The Applicant 
argues that specific studies in this population are not needed necessary because cataract surgery is not 
common in children. In those situations where anterior surgery is conducted on children, since they are 
more  sensitive  to post-operative  inflammation,  the use  of  steroids  is  the  current  standard of care  for 
paediatrics patients and it might be considered unethical to withhold steroids from this population.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Taking  into  account  the  expected  systemic  exposure  to  nepafenac/anfenac  following  topical  ocular 
administration, systemic interactions would be unlikely. Data from in vitro studies adds reassurance to 
this conclusion.  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
In freshly dissected rabbit tissue preparations, the hydrolase activity of the retinal-choroidal tissue was 
9- and 22-fold greater than that of the iris-ciliary body and the corneal tissue, respectively. Similar to 
human ocular tissues, amfenac production in rabbit ocular tissues increases linearly in a concentration- 
and time-dependent manner. 
The  activity  of  hydrolase  in  human  ocular  tissues  was  lower  than  hydrolase  activity  in  freshly 
dissected  ocular  tissues  from  the  rabbit.  The  difference  is  likely  a  post-mortem  artefact,  as  these 
enzymes decay rapidly following death. In addition, enzyme decay appears to be particularly prevalent 
in ocular neuronal tissues upon enucleation and storage. 
Overall,  these  data  show  that  nepafenac  exhibits  enhanced  corneal  tissue  permeability,  and  that  the 
prodrug undergoes relatively rapid bioactivation to amfenac by intraocular hydrolases.  
Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies in human have been performed. Available data come from pre-
clinical studies and are discussed in the corresponding section.  
•  Mechanism of action 
Nepafenac is an amide prodrug form of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, amfenac.  Nepafenac 
exhibits  rapid  corneal  penetration  and  readily  undergoes  intraocular  bioactivation  by  intraocular 
hydrolases to the pharmacologically active amfenac.  While nepafenac is intrinsically a weak inhibitor 
of  cyclooxygenase,  amfenac  potently  inhibits  cyclooxygenase.    Following  once-daily  topical 
administration, sustained suppression of prostaglandin synthesis is observed for a period of more than 
6  hours  in  the  iris/ciliary  body.    Similar  inhibitory  effects  are  observed  ex  vivo  in  tissue  of  the 
retina/choroid. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  clinical  development  plan  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  nepafenac  1 mg/ml  Eye  Drops, 
Suspension  for  the  proposed  indication  of  prevention  and  treatment  of  pain  and  inflammation 
@EMEA 2007 
17/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
associated with cataract surgery consisted of 6 clinical trials (C-95-93, C-97-30, C-02-53, C-03-32, C-
04-65 and C-04-41). 
Table   3 
Summary of Completed Clinical Studies Supporting the Efficacy of nepafenac 
1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension 
Study Design 
Treatment 
Duration 
Patient 
Population 
Treatment  
Groups 
Dosing  
No. Patients 
Randomized 
No. 
of 
Sites 
14 days 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
Placebo-
controlled 
14 days 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
Placebo-
controlled 
C-02-53 
Posology / 
Safety and 
Efficacy 
Randomized, 
double masked, 
Placebo-
controlled 
16 days 
16 days 
23 days 
Randomized, 
double masked, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Randomized,  
double-masked, 
active- and 
Placebo- 
controlled 
Study # 
Study 
Type / 
Location 
C-95-93 
Dose-
Response 
USA 
C-97-30 
Dose-
Response 
USA 
USA 
C-03-32 
Safety and 
Efficacy 
USA 
C-04-65 
Safety and 
Efficacy 
Europe 
(FR, HU, 
IT, PT, SP, 
UK) 
C-04-41 
Safety and 
Efficacy 
USA 
Patients, 18 years of age and 
older, having had cataract 
extraction with implantation of 
a posterior chamber IOL, and 
presenting with inflammation 
on Day 1 post-surgery 
Patients, 18 years of age and 
older, having had cataract 
extraction with implantation of 
a posterior chamber IOL, and 
presenting with inflammation 
on Day 1 post-surgery 
Patients, 18 years of age and 
older, requiring cataract 
extraction with planned 
implantation of a posterior 
chamber intraocular lens 
Patients, 18 years of age and 
older, requiring cataract 
extraction with planned 
implantation of a posterior 
chamber intraocular lens 
Nepafenac 0.3 
mg/ml  
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml 
Nepafenac 3 
mg/ml 
Placebo  
Nepafenac 0.03 
mg/ml  
Nepafenac 
0.1 mg/ml  
Nepafenac 0.3 
mg/ml  
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml  
Placebo 
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml  
Placebo 
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml 
Placebo 
Patients, 18 years of age and 
older, requiring cataract 
extraction with planned 
implantation of a posterior 
chamber intraocular lens 
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml 
Ketorolac 5 
mg/ml 
Placebo 
1 drop 
QID 
15 
280 
1 drop 
QID 
9 
197 
10 
220a 
21 
487a 
15 
227 
10 
267a 
1 drop: 
QD 
BID 
TID 
1 drop 
TID 
1 drop 
TID 
1 drop 
TID 
1 drop 
TID 
1 drop 
TID 
1 drop 
QID 
Randomized,  
double-masked, 
active-
controlled 
Up to 30 
days 
Patients, 10 years of age and 
older, requiring cataract 
extraction with planned 
implantation of a posterior 
chamber intraocular lens 
Nepafenac 
1 mg/ml 
Ketorolac 4 
mg/ml 
a    An additional 8 patients in C-02-53, 35 patients in C-03-32 and 16 patients in C-04-41 were consented and randomized but did not use 
study medication 
•  Dose response studies 
Two  dose  response,  randomised,  double-masked,  placebo-controlled  studies  have  been  performed  to  
assess the efficacy of different concentrations of nepafenac, Eye Drops (0.3mg/ml, 1mg/ml, 3mg/ml, 
in Study 95-93 and 0.03mg/ml, 0.1mg/ml, 0.3mg/ml and 1mg/ml in Study 97-30) relative to placebo 
(vehicle)  in  adult  patients  having  had  cataract  extraction  with  IOL  replacement  who  presented  with 
inflammation the day after (defined as flare score ≥2 or cells + flare score≥4). Patients were dosed 4-
times daily for the first 2 weeks and were assessed on D4, 8 and 15. The studied population appears 
representative  of  the  target  population,  with  the  vast  majority  of  patients  being  above  65  years  old. 
Efficacy was assessed by means of changes from baseline in inflammatory parameters such as aqueous 
cells and flares scores. As a more intuitive measure of the clinical relevance of the observed effect, a 
responder analysis using the rate of cure (summed score of aqueous cells and flare equal to zero) and 
the rate of failure (summed score equal or greater than the baseline´s score) have also been provided.  
@EMEA 2007 
18/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, study design is considered appropriate to assess the effect on inflammation at different dose 
levels. The issued endpoints are all state-of-the-art. Notably, the rationale to select the proposed range 
of doses is lacking. 
A total of 280 subjects were evaluable for the ITT analyses (N = 70, 70, 68, and 72 for the 0.3 mg/ml, 
1 mg/ml,  3  mg/ml,  and  Placebo  groups,  respectively)  in  Study  C-95-93.  Even  though  these  studies 
does  not  show  impressive  results,  superiority  of  nepafenac  over  placebo  in  the  treatment  of 
inflammation  following  cataract  surgery  based  upon  clinical  assessments  of  aqueous  cells  and  flare 
was demonstrated. The cure rate, around 30 %, was also significantly higher than for vehicle, which 
was just below 20 %. 
The  data  provided  do  not  show  the  presence  of  a  dose-response  relationship.  In  fact,  no  apparent 
differences  among  treatment  groups  were  seen  for  the  inflammatory  assessment.  Considering  the 
analysis  of  responders  (percentage  of  cure),  the  lower  doses  tested,  i.e.    nepafenac  0.3mg/ml  and 
1mg/ml  QID,  showed  better  results  than  the  higher  one  and  thus,  considered  suitable  doses  to  be 
further studied. 
Similar  conclusions  can  be  drawn  from  Study  C-97-30,  in  which  two  additional  lower  doses  were 
tested (nepafenac 0.03mg/ml and 0.1mg/ml in addition to nepafenac 0.3mg/ml and 1mg/ml QID). All 
the  doses  tested  showed  statistically  significant  superiority  of  nepafenac  over  placebo  for  the 
inflammatory  endpoints  (aqueous  cells,  flare  and  aqueous  cells+flare),  with  no  differences  between 
doses. The cure rate varied between 15% and 32 % in the active groups versus 7.7 % in the vehicle 
group at Day 15 (p=0.042). An assessment of the clinical relevance of the observed effect by means of 
the  rate  of  cure  and  failures,  shows  minor  differences  between  doses  so  that  the  intermediate  doses 
tested of nepafenac (i.e. 0.3mg/ml and 1mg/ml) could be considered optimal from an efficacy point of 
view, to be further tested in the confirmatory trials. 
However,  only  the  1mg/ml  dose  of  nepafenac  has  been  selected  for  the  confirmatory  trials.  The 
Applicant claims that this decision was based not only on efficacy/safety grounds but also on quality 
issues,  i.e.  this  was  the  lowest  concentration which exhibited  acceptable  long-term  product  stability. 
Although theoretically a lower dose (i.e. 0.3mg/ml) might be more suitable, since there were no safety 
concerns, the proposed dose can be considered acceptable.   
•  Main studies  
Title of Study 
C-02-53 
Topical preoperative and postoperative use of nepafenac ophthalmic suspension 0.1 % for treatment of 
anterior segment inflammation after cataract/IOL surgery  
C-03-32 
Preoperative  and  postoperative  use  of  nepafenac  ophthalmic  suspension  0.1  %  for  the  treatment  of 
ocular inflammation associated with cataract surgery. 
C-04-65  
Nepafenac 0.1 % eye drops suspension compared to ketorolac Trometamol 0.5 % eye drops solution, 
and placebo (nepafenac vehicle) for the prevention and treatment of ocular inflammation and ocular 
pain associated with cataract surgery: European study.  
C-04-41 
Preoperative  and  postoperative  NEVANAC  (nepafenac  ophthalmic  suspension)  0.1  %  compared  to 
Acular LS ™ for the treatment of ocular inflammation associated with cataract surgery. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
@EMEA 2007 
19/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Individuals  over  the  age  of  18  (over  age  10  for  C-04-41)  who  had  a  cataract,  and  were  expected  to 
undergo  cataract  extraction  with  the  implantation  of  a  posterior  chamber  intraocular  lens  were 
included.  
Patients with any intraocular inflammation (cells or flare greater than Grade 0) or ocular pain greater 
than  Grade  1  in  the  study  eye  (operative  eye)  that  was  present  during  the  screening  slit-lamp 
examination were included. Those with chronic or recurrent inflammatory eye disease in the operative 
eye,  patients,  who  in  the  opinion  of  the  investigator,  might  have  been  at  increased  risk  of 
complications from topical NSAIDs were excluded.  
The  use  of  concomitant  topical  and  systemic  anti-inflammatory  agents  was  contraindicated.    A 
washout period of a minimum of 14 days was required for steroids.  For NSAIDs, the washout period 
was  a  minimum  of  7  days.    Patients  who  were  taking  a  prophylactic  daily  dose  of  aspirin  (up  to 
100 mg/day) prior to enrolling in the study were permitted to continue this therapy during the study.  
Patients were also permitted to take paracetamol. 
Treatments 
C-02-53 
One  drop  of  nepafenac  ophthalmic  suspension  0.1  %  1,  2  or  3  times  daily  beginning  1  day  prior  to 
cataract surgery and continuing for 14 days postoperatively. Furthermore, one drop was administered 
30 – 120 minutes prior to surgery. 
C-03-32 
Nepafenac ocular suspension 0.1 % or vehicle was administered 3 times daily beginning 1 day prior to 
surgery and continuing for 14 days after the operation. 
Prior investigation had shown a TID regimen numerically most effective.  
C-04-65 
The treatment was either nepafenac 1 mg/ml eye drops (suspension), Ketorolac Trometamol 5 mg/ml 
eye drops (solution), or nepafenac vehicle eye drops. 
All groups commenced treatment one day before cataract surgery, with an additional drop on the day 
of  surgery  30  to  120  minutes  prior  to  the  extraction  procedure,  and  continued  therapy  for  up  to  21 
days. The dosage was 1 drop 3 times daily.  The afternoon dosage was to be applied within 1- 4 hours 
before the clinical evaluation on the of post- surgery examination days.  
The medication was applied one day prior to the surgical procedure and was continued up to 21 days 
afterwards, i. e. the treatment was 23 days. 
C-04-41 
Application  of  study  medication  began  at  the  day  prior  to  cataract  surgery.  Nepafenac  0.1  %  dosed 
was  TID,  and  ketorolac,  0.4  %  QID,  in  consistency  with  the  approved  regimen  in  the  USA.  In 
addition,  30-120  minutes  before  surgery  an  extra  dose  was  administered,  and  at  day  7  an  additional 
drop of study drug was applied immediately before completing the patient’s drop comfort evaluation. 
The duration of the treatment was planned to be at least 15 days and maximally 32 days. 
Nearly  all  patients  participating  in  the  pivotal  studies  received  antibiotic  prophylaxis  (to  prevent 
endophthalmitis)  according  to  clinical  practice  in  each  study  centre,  with  no  differences  among 
treatment groups in the type of antibiotic used.  
Objectives 
C-02-53 
To demonstrate that topical ocular nepafenac ophthalmic suspension 0.1 % given from 1 day before 
surgery, continuing on the day of surgery and for 14 days thereafter, is safe and effective in treatment 
of inflammation that occurs after cataract surgery with IOL implantation. 
C-03-32 
@EMEA 2007 
20/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To demonstrate that topical ocular nepafenac ophthalmic suspension 0.1 % given 1 day before surgery, 
continuing on the day of surgery, and for 14 days after surgery decreases the incidence and severity of 
inflammation that occurs after cataract surgery and IOL implantation. 
C-04-65 
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of nepafenac 1 mg/ml eye drops suspension compared to placebo 
and  Ketorolac  Trometamol  5  mg/ml  eye  drops  solution  for  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  ocular 
inflammation and ocular pain after cataract extraction by phaco-emulsification with posterior chamber 
IOL implantation. 
C-04-41 
To  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  NEVANAC  (nepafenac  ophthalmic  suspension)  0.1  % 
compared  to  Acular  LS  ophthalmic  solution  for  the  treatment  of  ocular  pain  and  inflammation 
associated with cataract surgery. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
An overview of the primary and secondary endpoints used in the single trials is presented below. 
Table  4 
Sample size 
C-02-53 
A number of 48 patients per group would ensure 80 % power to detect a difference in the percent of 
patients who were treatment failures, if the percent in the active and placebo group was 32.6 % and 63 
%, respectively. 
C-03-32 
A number of 218 patients per treatment group would allow a power of 90 % to detect a difference of 
percent cured patients if the cure rate in the nepafenac group was 38.99 % and 24.14 % in the vehicle 
group. 
C-04-65 
@EMEA 2007 
21/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  an  earlier  trial  the  percentage  of  patients  cured  at  Day  14,  was  62.6  %  and  17.2  %,  respectively, 
with a sample size of 243 and 233 patients. The lower 95 % confidence limit for nepafenac was 56.52 
% and the upper confidence limit was 22.05 % for placebo. Using these criteria, a sample size of 46 
evaluable  patients  per  group  yielded  90  %  probability  to  detect  a  significant  treatment  difference 
between the active and placebo treatment. In the same study > 2 unit mean difference in cells + flare 
between nepafenac and placebo was observed (at Day 14). The standard deviation was 1.4 units with 
an  upper  95  %  confidence  limit  of  1.54  units.  Using  the  1.54  unit  standard  deviation  62  evaluable 
patients  per  arm  would  correspond  to  non-inferiority  of  nepafenac  to  ketorolac.  The  non-inferiority 
criterion  of  1.0  unit  was  chosen  as  this  was  the  smallest  measurable  increment.  The  probability 
coverage was 90 %. 
C-04-41 
A number of 130 evaluable patients per treatment arm would ensure a greater than 80 % probability 
that the 95 % lower confidence limit for the difference in proportions would be greater than – 20 at 
Day 14. This assumed 60 % of patients with clinical success for both nepafenac and ketorolac. 
Randomisation 
C-02-53 
Patients were randomly assigned to the treatment groups nepafenac TID, BID, QD, and vehicle in a 
1:1:1:1 distribution. 
C-03-32 
Treatment was stated to be allocated 1:1 in the two groups. 
C-04-65 
A 1:1:1 ratio was used in the randomisation. 
C-04-41 
A 1:1 randomisation was used. 
Blinding (masking) 
Studies C-03-32, C-04-65 and C-04-41 were all double masked and the study medication was supplied 
in identical containers in all studies. 
True double-dummy masking was not used in Study C-02-53 in order to minimise the possibility of 
patients dosing from the incorrect bottle. Efforts to minimise bias were made, i.e. the efficacy/safety 
assessment was done by an investigator not involved in the study drug dispensation and patients were 
blinded to treatment active/placebo (but not to treatment regimen), although the existence of bias can 
not be completely ruled out. 
In  study  C-04-65,  the  comparator  drug  was  the  one  approved  in  the  participating  countries.  The 
marketed ketorolac eye drops were sterile transferred to a DROP-TAINERS®. 
Statistical methods 
C-02-53 
Fischer’s exact test (3-tests with TID, BID and QD versus placebo) was used in this superiority trial. 
The  effect  of  multiplicity  testing  was  investigated  with  Hommel’s  procedure.  Also,  the  secondary 
endpoints were tested with 3-tests. 
C-03-32 
The trial was a superiority study and the two groups were to be compared with Fischer’s exact test. 
The  incidence  of  treatment  failures,  clinically  significant  inflammation  and  no  pain  and  were 
compared with logistic regression. 
C-04-65 
@EMEA 2007 
22/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The superiority analyses used ITT population whereas the non-inferiority analyses were based on the 
PP-population. 
C-04-41 
This trial was a non-inferiority study. A 2-sided 95 % confidence interval was constructed for the 
difference in proportions between the two treatment groups and non-inferiority was declared if the 
lower confidence limit for the treatment group difference (nepafenac – ketorolac) was greater than – 
20 %. The PP data set was to form the basis of conclusion.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
C-02-53 
Of  the  228  patients  randomized  in  this  study,  96  discontinued  from  the  study  for  the  following 
reasons: adverse event (6), patient decision (9), lost to follow-up (1), treatment failure (70) and other 
(10). The Applicant claims that the high number of treatment failure discontinuations was anticipated 
in the Vehicle group because for the patient’s safety, investigators were required to exit patients from 
the study if inflammation reached a preset level in order to initiate rescue medication, since this was a 
placebo-controlled  study. However,  a  high  proportion of  patients also  discontinued  in  the  nepafenac 
treatment groups due to treatment failure.  
C-03-32 
A total of 487 patients received test article and were therefore were evaluable for the safety analysis. A 
total of 476 patients were evaluable for the intent-to-treat analysis (243 nepafenac and 233 Placebo). 
Of  the  patients  evaluable  for  the  intent-to-treat  analysis,  33  were  not  evaluable  for  the  per  protocol 
analysis  due  to  a  significant  protocol  violation  (n=27)  or  a  complicated/difficult  surgery  (n=6). 
Therefore, a total of 443 patients were evaluable for per protocol analysis.  
Of  the  522  patients  randomized  in  this  study,  218  discontinued  from  the  study  for  the  following 
reasons:  adverse  event  (7),  patient  decision  (23),  non-compliance  (2),  treatment  failure  (158),  and 
other (28).  
C-04-65 
Two hundred twenty-seven patients were randomized to treatment at 15 study sites. All 227 patients 
enrolled into the study received study medication and were included in the safety analysis. Of the 227 
patients who received study drug, 2 patients were excluded from the intent-to-treat analyses, as they 
had no on-therapy postoperative study visits. This resulted in a total of 225 patients evaluable for the 
intent-to-treat  analysis  of  efficacy  (76 nepafenac,  73  ketorolac,  76 Placebo).  Of  the  225  patients 
evaluable  for  intent-to-treat  analysis, 2 patients  were  excluded  from  all  per  protocol  analyses  due  to 
prohibited  concomitant  medication  usage  that  had  the  potential  to  affect  efficacy  results.  Therefore, 
223  patients  were  evaluable  for  the  per  protocol  analysis  of  efficacy  (76  nepafenac,  72  ketorolac, 
75 Placebo). 
Of  the  227  patients  randomized  in  this  study,  23  discontinued  from  the  study  for  the  following 
reasons:  adverse  event  (7),  decision  unrelated  to  an  adverse  event  (1),  treatment  failure  (14)  and 
surgical complications requiring additional anti-inflammatory therapy (1). 
C-04-41 
Two hundred eighty-three patients were randomized to treatment at 10 study sites in the US. Sixteen 
patients who did not receive study medication and discontinued from the study prior to surgery were 
excluded  from  all  analyses.  Thus,  267  patients  were  evaluable  for  the  safety  analyses.  Of  the  267 
patients who received study drug, 3 patients were excluded from the intent-to-treat analyses, resulting 
in a total of 264 patients evaluable for the intent-to-treat analysis of efficacy (131 nepafenac and 133 
ketorolac 4 mg/ml). 
Of  the  264  patients  evaluable  for  intent-to-treat  analysis,  8  patients  were  excluded  from  all  per 
protocol  analyses  due  to  improper  study  medication  usage  that  had  the  potential  to  affect  efficacy 
@EMEA 2007 
23/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results. Therefore, 256 patients were evaluable for the per protocol analysis of efficacy (127 nepafenac 
and 129 ketorolac 4 mg/ml). 
Of  the  283  patients  randomized  in  this  study,  59  discontinued  from  the  study  for  the  following 
reasons:  adverse  event  (4),  patient  decision  (13),  non-compliance  (4),  treatment  failure  (6)  recurrent 
inflammation requiring anti-inflammatory therapy in a previous clinical success patient (16) and other 
(16). 
Recruitment 
See Table 2.7.3.1-9 
Conduct of the study 
C-02-53 
No major amendments were issued. An exploratory post-hoc evaluation of percent cures and pain was 
conducted. 
C-03-32 
No protocol amendments were issued. Exploratory post-hoc analysis of ocular was conducted. 
C-04-65 
No changes to the protocol or planned statistical analyses were employed. 
C-04-41 
A few minor protocol amendments were issued. 
Baseline data 
C-02-53 
The mean age was 70.3 years (47-91). Other baseline characteristics are shown in the table above. 
C-03-32 
The mean age was 69.9 years (27-90). 
C-04-65 
The mean age was 72.1 years (42-90). Other demographic variables are shown in the table above. 
Baseline characteristics were well distributed among the three treatment groups. 
C-04-41 
The mean age was 69.4 years (43-89). Other demographic information is located in the table above. 
Numbers analysed 
C-02-53 
A number of 228 patients were randomised of whom 8 discontinued prior to surgery, and, thus, were 
excluded from all analyses. Of the 220 patient 8 patients discontinued prior to or during surgery (all 
judged unrelated to study medication), thus, 212 patients were available for the ITT analysis. A 
number of 14 were excluded to analysis because of protocol deviations or non-compliance with study 
medication. The PP-population encompassed 198 patients. 
C-03-32 
A total of 487 patients were recruited, of whom 11 were excluded because of lack of on-therapy visits. 
(withdrawal  of  consent  prior  to  surgery,  use  of  prohibited  medication,  non-compliance  with  study 
medication, surgical complication requiring steroid therapy, and lost to follow up). This left 476 for 
the ITT population. A number of 33 patients were excluded from PP analysis because of significant 
protocol violation or complicated surgery. This left 443 to the PP population. 
C-04-65 
@EMEA 2007 
24/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  number  of  227  patients  were  randomised  of  whom  225  participated  in  the  ITT  population,  as  2 
patients  did  not  have  any  post-operative  on-treatment  visits.  Two  patients  used  “prohibited” 
medication, thus the PP population encompassed 223 patients. 
C-04-41 
A  number  of  283  patients  were  randomised  to  treatment,  of  whom  16  did  not  receive  study 
medication. Out of those 267 patients, 3 did not have on-therapy postoperative study visits as 2 were 
discontinued prior to surgery and 1 had a protocol variation, thus, 264 patients were included in the 
ITT population. A number of 8 patients were excluded because of incorrect use of study medication. 
Thus, 256 patients were available for the PP population. 
Outcomes and estimation 
C-02-53 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  percent  of  patients  declared  treatment  failures  at  the  Day  14 
Visit. Treatment failure was defined as an aqueous cells score ≥ 3, an aqueous flare score ≥ 3, or an 
ocular pain score ≥ 4. Aqueous cells were graded on a 5-point scale, aqueous flare on a 4-point scale, 
and ocular pain on a 6-point scale. 
Table   5 
While  all  evaluated  dosing  regimens  (QD,  BID  and  TID)  were  associated  with  a  statistically  lower 
incidence of treatment failures than Placebo (p<0.0001), the TID-dosed nepafenac group exhibited the 
fewest treatment failures. . The lowest treatment failure rate was observed in the nepafenac TID group 
(19.6%),  followed  by  the  nepafenac  QD  (25.0%)  and  nepafenac  BID  groups  (30.0%),  respectively. 
The highest treatment failure rate was observed in the Vehicle group (60.3%). Consistent results were 
seen in the PP analysis (TID 16.7% compared to BID 26.1%, QD 27.3%, or Vehicle 61.1%).  In Study 
C-02-53, the discontinuation rate due to treatment failures ranged from 20% to 28% for the nepafenac 
QD, BID and TID treatment groups. 
The TID-dosing had the highest percentage of patients with no ocular pain and proportion of treatment 
responders  at  all  visits  as  well  as  the  lowest  rates  of  clinically  significant  inflammation  at  all  visits.  
Even though most of these differences cannot be considered clinically relevant, these results together 
with the lower rate of treatment failures support the selection of the three times daily as the optimal 
dosing of nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension. 
Secondary endpoints support the efficacy of nepafenac Ophthalmic Suspension, 0.1% as demonstrated 
by  lower  aqueous  cells  scores,  lower  aqueous  flare  scores,  lower  cells  plus  flare  scores,  a  lower 
percent  of  patients  with  clinically  significant  inflammation  (cells  plus  flare  scores  ≥4)  and  a  greater 
percent of patients who were treatment responders (defined as aqueous cells < 1 and aqueous flare = 
0). As observed in the primary efficacy analysis, statistically significant differences supporting a TID 
dosing  regimen  for  nepafenac  Ophthalmic  Suspension,  0.1%  were  observed  in  these  secondary 
efficacy analyses. 
C-03-32 
The primary efficacy variable was percent cures (defined as cells + flare score = zero) at Day 14.  
@EMEA 2007 
25/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  showed  that  nepafenac  1 mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Suspension  was  superior  to  Placebo  in  the 
prevention and treatment of ocular pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery based upon 
clinical  assessments  of  aqueous  cells,  flare  and  ocular  pain.  Up  to  62.6%  of  patients  treated  with 
nepafenac were cured (defined as no signs of inflammation) after two weeks of treatment as compared 
to 17.2% in the placebo arm. The rate of failures at D14 was 8.2% in nepafenac vs 61% in placebo. At 
day 1 postsurgery, 83% of patients in nepafenac were free of pain as compared to 41.6% of patients in 
placebo, increasing to 93% after two weeks of treatment with nepafenac. 
Results of the primary efficacy variable are shown below. 
C-04-65 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  percent  cures  at  Day  14,  where  cure  was  defined  as  aqueous 
cells score = 0 and flare score = 0 at Day 14 and all subsequent visits. 
Nepafenac  1mg/ml  tid  was  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo  on  the  treatment  of  ocular 
inflammation,  as  measured  by  the  rate  of  cure  at  D14  (76%  vs  59%  in  nepafenac  and  placebo, 
respectively) and ocular pain (percentage of pain-free patients at D14 were 86% vs 63% in nepafenac 
and placebo, respectively). Notably, the rate of failures was quite low in both groups (3.9% vs 11.8% 
in  nepafenac  and  placebo,  respectively),  especially  in  placebo,  as  compared  to  the  previous  study 
(61% vs 8.2%, respectively).  Nepafenac showed consistent results to those seen in the previous study. 
Although superiority of nepafenac over placebo could be demonstrated, the clinical relevance of the 
observed differences could be questionable, probably due to the higher placebo response observed in 
this study.  
The non-inferiority of nepafenac relative to ketorolac trometamol, defined by a delta margin of 1 point 
in the mean cells+flare score at D21, was demonstrated. Even though, the delta margin is considered 
broad and despite previous concerns on the clinical relevance of the observed effect, the results of this 
study demonstrate that nepafenac 1mg/ml TID has a similar anti-inflamatory and pain relief efficacy 
compared  to  a  currently  authorised  treatment  for  the  claimed  indication  (i.e.  ketorolac  trometamol 
5mg/ml TID, used according to the most commonly authorised regimen in the EU). 
Results for the primary endpoint are shown in the table below. 
@EMEA 2007 
26/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table   6 
The corresponding figures for the PP population are 59 (77.6 %) and 43 (61.4 %), respectively 
(p=0.0330). Robustness of the results has been demonstrated. 
Secondary  efficacy  evaluations  also  indicated  that  nepafenac  1 mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Suspension  was 
non-inferior to ketorolac 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution for: inflammation (mean cells and flare scores) 
at the postoperative Day 21 visit. The non-inferiority criterion of 1.0 unit was chosen because it is the 
smallest measurable increment on the cells + flare scale, implying that differences smaller than this are 
not measurable for an individual patient and therefore not clinically meaningful. 
Furthermore,  the  results  of  all  other  evaluations  indicated  that  nepafenac  1 mg/ml  was  clinically 
equivalent to ketorolac 5 mg/ml, with superiority shown over ketorolac 5 mg/ml for: clinical success 
rate at Day 14, percent pain-free patients at Day 3 and comfort upon instillation of the eye drop at Day 
7. 
C-04-41 
The primary efficacy variable was the percentage of patients who were a “clinical success” at Day 14, 
where a “clinical success” was defined as aqueous cells score ≤ 1 (0 to 5 cells) and flare score = 0 at 
the current visit and all subsequent visits.  Non inferiority was concluded if the lower 95% confidence 
limit  for  the  difference  in  proportions  of  clinical  success  (nepafenac  –  ketorolac  0.4%)  would  be 
greater than -20% at Day 14. 
This  study  was  aimed  at  demonstrating  the  non-inferiority  of  nepafenac  1mg/ml  tid  as  compared  to 
ketorolac trometamol 4mg/ml QID by means of the anti-inflammatory effect (rates of clinical success 
defined as cells score ≤ 1 plus flare score=0 at D 14 and subsequent visits). 
The non-inferiority of nepafenac relative to ketorolac trometamol, defined by a delta margin of 20% in 
the difference of clinical success rates between Nep-Ketor, was demonstrated. However, considering 
the  observed  rates  of  success  at  Day  14  (i.e.  64%  nepafenac  vs  65%  ketorolac)  the  proposed  delta 
margin is considered too broad to conclude on the non-inferiority. However, these results show similar 
anti-inflammatory  effects  of  both  treatments  as  measured  by  the  rate  of  cures,  the  rates  of  clinical 
success and mean aqueous cells and flare scores as well as similar pain relief efficacy at all visits.  
Although lower rates of cure were seen at D14 as compared to the previous study (nepafenac 43%  vs 
ketorolac  36%),  at  D  28  similar  rates  were  achieved.  Therefore,  this  study  confirms  the  previous 
conclusions on the non-inferiority of nepafenac relative to ketorolac.  
@EMEA 2007 
27/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table   7 
The ITT results were similar to the presented PP results, confirming the robustness of the results. 
The  secondary  efficacy  evaluations  of  patient  comfort  and  satisfaction  also  indicated  that  nepafenac 
was superior to ketorolac dosed 4 times a day for: drop comfort upon instillation one day prior to and 
7  days  following  surgery,  burning  upon  instillation,  stinging  upon  instillation,  soothing  upon 
instillation and, redness upon instillation. 
Ancillary analyses 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
An  overall  description  of  study  populations  and  efficacy  results  across  different  studies  has  been 
performed, which summarised the available data but do not add relevant information.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
As  expected  from  the  studied  condition,  elderly  (>65  years  old)  patients  have  been  extensively 
represented in the pivotal studies (86%) as well as the proportion of very elderly patients (around 50% 
of  the  elderly  patients).  No  specific  studies  in  children  have  been  performed.  In  1  study  (C-04-41) 
patients  as  young  as  10  years  of  age  were  eligible  for  participation;  however,  no  paediatric  patients 
participated in the study.  
No clinically relevant or consistent differences in the effectiveness of nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, 
Suspension have been observed based on age, sex, race or iris color. 
No  specific  studies  in  hepatic  or  renal  impaired  patients  have  been  performed.  Considering  that 
systemic exposure might be negligible, specific studies are not deemed necessary.  
•  Supportive studies 
None 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Four  of  the  efficacy  trials  (C-95-93,  C-97-30,  C-02-53  and  C-03-32)  presented  in  this  MAA  were 
designed to follow patients for the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period.  A reduction in aqueous 
cells and flare scores (C-95-93 and C-97-30), as well as an increase in the percent of patients cured (C-
02-53  and  C-03-32),  was  observed  in  the  nepafenac  treatment  groups  over  the  14-day  postoperative 
period.   
One additional trial (C-04-65) was designed to treat patients for 23 days (1 day preoperatively, on the 
day  of  surgery  and  for  3 weeks  postoperatively)  with  an  off-treatment  assessment  28  days 
postoperatively.  A  final  trial  (C-04-41)  was  designed  to  treat  patients  for  up  to  30  days  (1  day 
preoperatively,  on  the  day  of  surgery  and  for  up  to  4  weeks  postoperatively)  with  an  off-treatment 
assessment 28 days postoperative for all patients. Studies C-04-41 and C-04-65, which had off-therapy 
assessments  for  up  to  2  weeks  after  treatment  was  stopped,  demonstrated  that  patients  generally 
remained free of inflammation once therapy was stopped.   
Although the applicant acknowledges the lack of a clinical bridging study to support the choice of the 
3 times daily dosing posology used in studies C-02-53, C-03-32, C-04-41 and C-04-65 compared to 4 
times daily used in the initial dose-response studies C-95-93 and C-97-30, the totality of the evidence 
@EMEA 2007 
28/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
suggests  that  little  additional  efficacy  could  be  achieved  with  4  times  daily  dosing.  The  proposed 
posology  (TID)  is  supported  by  the  results  of  Study  C-02-53  and  confirmed  by  the  results  of  the 
pivotal  studies,  and  the  rationale  provided  to  withdraw  the  4  times  daily  regimen  is  considered 
acceptable by the CHMP.  
According to the results of the pivotal studies, 14 days appears the optimal treatment duration since for 
the vast majority of patients a significant reduction in inflammatory parameters was achieved in two 
weeks  of  treatment.  Although  it  is  recognized  that  extending  therapy  for  up  to  21-28  days  might 
provide  some  additional  benefit  from  a  purely  inflammatory  point  of  view  in  some  patients,  the 
clinical relevance of this added benefit is doubtful. Therefore, a 14 days treatment duration that could 
be extended for up to 3 weeks according to physician’s judgement is considered a more consistent and 
justified recommendation. This is reflected adequately in the SPC Posology section (4.2). 
Paracetamol  use  was  variable  prior  to  surgery  across  studies  (ranging  from  2.6%  to  22.6%),  with 
minor differences across treatment groups, whilst as expected the use of paracetamol was increased in 
the  placebo  groups  following  surgery.  Overall,  paracetamol  use  on  the  day  of  surgery  or  beyond 
ranged  from  7.1%  to  22%  and  was  higher  in  the  placebo  arms  with  minor  differences  across  active 
treatment groups. The reasons for taking paracetamol have not been provided and although ocular pain 
might be the main, the existence of other reasons is possible. From the data provided any conclusion 
on possible differences in pain relief between active treatments can not be drawn.   
While the definition for treatment failure was identical in Studies C-02-53, C-03-32, C-04-41 and C-
04-65, treatment failure served as the primary efficacy variable in Study C-02-53 and as a secondary 
efficacy  variable  in  Studies  C-03-32,  C-04-41  and  C-04-65.  It  is  noted  that  the  discontinuation  rate 
because of treatment failure appears to be quite high in study C-02-53. Since treatment failure was the 
primary efficacy variable in Study C-02-53 in this initial Phase III study with nepafenac 1 mg/ml, it is 
possible  that  investigators  may  have  been  more  attentive  to  the  degree  of  inflammation  and  pain 
experienced by the patient.  
The patients included in the study population are representative for the demographic population in the 
intended use of the drug. 
In  summary  the  efficacy  of  nepafenac  eye  drops  0.1  %  suspension  has  been  investigated  in  a  well 
planned  and  well  conducted  clinical  programme.    An  anti-inflammatory  effect  superior  to  that  of 
placebo  (nepafenac  vehicle)  and  a  non-inferior  effect  to  the  well  established  comparator  ketorolac 
Trometamol  (0.4  or  0.5  %,  dosed  4  or  3  times  daily,  respectively)  eye  drops  solution  was 
demonstrated, applying to both established post surgery inflammation and preventing inflammation by 
the  application  of  the  study  drug  one  day  prior  to  cataract  surgery.  In  conclusion,  data  provided 
support the efficacy of NEVANAC in the claimed indication. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  evaluation  of  safety  was  conducted  in  1,938  adult  and  elderly  patients  across  16  topical  ocular 
clinical studies which included post-cataract inflammation studies (C-95-93, C-97-30, C-02-53, C-03-
32, C-04-41, and C-04-65), comfort, safety, and pharmacokinetic studies (C-95-91, C-95-92, C-04-08, 
C-05-08, and C-05-19), macular edema studies (C-96-08, C-00-35, C-00-60, and C-00-61), and a post-
excimer laser pain study (C-97-52).  
Overall, 1678 patients enrolled in studies in the claimed indication. In the post-inflammation cataract 
studies, the proposed indication, 728 patients were exposed to nepafenac 1 mg/ml, hereof 515 (25% of 
the overall safety population) in the proposed TID posology.  
The  mean  duration  of  exposure  to  nepafenac  1  mg/ml  in  the  post-cataract  studies  was  19.9  days 
including the addition of a recently completed long-term safety study (C-05-20). One hundred sixty-
six patients have now been exposed to nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension for at least 21 days, 
@EMEA 2007 
29/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which included 47 patients exposed to nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension for greater than 82 
days. No safety issues were identified in those patients with a long-term exposure.  
Only few patients with macular oedema received nepafenac on a long-term basis.  
The safety evaluation of nepafenac includes a comprehensive battery of examinations, both ocular and 
systemic, although not uniformly conducted in all patients as well as system.  
Table   8 
Table   9 
@EMEA 2007 
30/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table   10 
•  Adverse events (AE) 
The most frequently reported adverse events (related and not related combined) within patients with 
exposure to nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops, Suspension across all topical ocular clinical trials (N=832) 
were  reduced  visual  acuity  (3.5%),  headache  (3.5%),  foreign  body  sensation  in  eyes  (1.8%), 
conjunctival oedema (1.8%) and posterior capsule opacification (1.7%). 
All other adverse events occurred at an incidence of 1.3% or less. 
@EMEA 2007 
31/39 
 
 
 
 
Table   11 
Foreign  body  sensation  and  eye  pruritus  appeared  to  occur  with  a  slightly  higher  incidence  in  the 
nepafenac groups compared to the active comparator groups. 
Blurred  vision,  vitreous  detachment,  vitreous  floaters,  ocular  hyperemia,  posterior  capsule 
opacification  and  corneal  striae  occurred  with  incidences  up  to  3.5%  in  the  nepafenac  groups  and 
generally with slightly lower incidences, in the vehicle group but not in the active comparator groups. 
However, patient numbers in these groups are low. Conjunctival edema occurred with a slightly higher 
incidence in the ketorolac groups.  
No dose-relationship was observed for AE in the nepafenac groups.  
The  most  frequently  reported  treatment-related  adverse  events  in  the  population  of  patients 
participating in the post-cataract studies with exposure to nepafenac 1 mg/ml Eye Drops,  Suspension 
@EMEA 2007 
32/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(N=728)  were  eyelid  margin  crusting  (0.5%),  eye  pain  (0.3%),  and  foreign  body  sensation  (0.3%). 
Single  treatment-related  occurrences  of  iritis,  conjunctival  hyperemia,  lacrimation  increased,  eye 
discharge, nausea, hypersensitivity and cutis laxa also were observed. 
Table   12 
The  safety  profile  of  nepafenac  does  not  appear  to  be  relevantly  different  from  placebo  (vehicle  of 
nepafenac)  or  ketorolac.  This  holds  true  for  both  the  overall  population  and  the  claimed  target 
population.  Only  the  higher  concentration  of  nepafenac  appears  to  show  a  numerically  increased 
incidence of particular AE (namely foreign body sensation and vitreous floaters); however, the number 
of patients treated is too low. 
Specific ophthalmologic assessments 
Visual acuity and intraocular pressure 
Several  safety  parameters  have  been  represented  over  time,  including  IOP  and  VA.  The  effect  on 
corneal  thickness,  endothelial  cell  counts  and  pupil  diameter  were  based  on  data  from  a  limited 
number of patients, so that no valid conclusion can be reached.  
An  assessment  of  the  changes  from  baseline  in  optic  nerve,  retina/macula  and  choroids  showed  no 
deleterious effect on optic nerve following treatment with nepafenac as well as minor changes in the 
proportion  of  patients  with  evidence  of  active  retina/macula  and/or  choroids  inflammation.  Similar 
conclusions apply for the remaining ocular safety parameters, including visual acuity which tended to 
increase over time in the majority of patients.  
A  review  of  the  data  showing  the  changes  in  IOP  following  surgery  indicate  that  overall,  mean 
changes were of minor relevance, followed the surgical procedure and tended to normalise over time 
(on D3), which is quite reassuring.  Even though this observation was similar among treatments, and 
the surgical procedure instead of the anti-inflammatory therapies appears responsible for the observed 
changes in IOP, in order to properly assess its relevance, an analysis of the incidence of patients with 
clinically relevant changes in IOP, using a stricter criteria, was considered to be necessary.  
The requested reanalysis of the changes in IOP using more stringent criteria (IOP ≥ 24 mmHg at any 
visit)  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant.  The  incidence  of  patients  in  the  nepafenac  1  mg/ml 
treatment group with IOP ≥ 24 mmHg at any visit were slightly higher than those seen in the ketorolac 
5 mg/ml and Vehicle treatment groups, but lower than those seen in the ketorolac 4mg/ml. In addition, 
@EMEA 2007 
33/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all  adverse  events  reported  for  increased  IOP  were  not  related  to  study  drug  and  did  not  interrupt 
patient continuation in the study. All treatment groups demonstrated a transient increase in IOP at Day 
1 that returned to baseline by Day 3, which is commonly seen post cataract surgery. 
Other ocular examinations 
No differences between nepafenac and vehicle were found in the assessment of a number of additional 
ocular examinations (dilated fundus examination, pupil diameter and pupillary response, mean corneal 
thickness (pachymetry), endothelial cell density) 
Cardiovascular examinations 
Blood pressure and heart rate were assessed in 5 clinical studies (C-00-35, C-00-60, C-00-61, C-04-08, 
C-05-08), none of them in the claimed indication. Overall, data on 90 patients and healthy volunteers 
are provided, 27 of them aged 65 or older. Thirty nine of these subjects were treated with 3mg/ml, 24 
with  1  mg/ml  and  27  with  vehicle.  No  differences  in  heart  rate  or  blood  pressure  were  observed 
between  groups.  Data  con  cardiovascular  findings  are  scarce  and  of  limited  value.  Admittedly,  no 
major cardiovascular safety concern is expected from an NSAID topically administered short-term at 
such low doses. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Twenty-three  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  17  patients,  including  3  patients  (2.1%)  with 
exposure  to  nepafenac  3  mg/ml,  5  patients  (0.6%)  with  exposure  to  nepafenac  1  mg/ml,  1  patient 
(0.8%) with exposure to nepafenac 0.3 mg/ml, 1 patient (0.6%) with exposure to ketorolac 4 mg/ml, 
and 7 patients (1.3%) with exposure to nepafenac vehicle.  
One patient among (on nepafenac 3mg/ml) experienced 2 serious adverse events (ulcerative keratitis 
and  uveitis)  following  approximately  6  months  of  therapy  that  were  assessed  as  related  to  therapy. 
This was the only patient on active therapy to experience serious adverse events that were ocular in 
nature. The types of non-ocular serious adverse events that were observed are not unexpected for an 
aging population. 
Table   13 
@EMEA 2007 
34/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One patient with exposure to ketorolac 4 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution experienced a fatal adverse event 
(pneumococcal pneumonia) not related to therapy. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory  evaluations  were  performed  in  1  macular  edema  study  (C-00-35)  and  2 pharmacokinetic 
studies (C-04-08 and C-05-08) with healthy volunteers involving topical ophthalmic dosing. Study C-
00-35 involved a small sample size of  patients who were dosed  TID with either nepafenac 3 mg/ml 
(N=13) or nepafenac Vehicle (N=12) for up to 12 weeks. Laboratory test results were  evaluated for 
patients at baseline (Eligibility), Week 12 (End-of- Treatment), and Week 20 (Exit). An analysis of the 
laboratory data (haematology, blood chemistry, and urinalysis) revealed no safety issues 
Since  the  MAA  submission,  a  post-cataract  clinical  study  C-05-54  was  completed  that  assessed 
clinical  laboratory  data  in  an  additional  Japanese  107  patients  exposed  to  nepafenac  1  mg/ml  Eye 
Drops. The additional laboratory data revealed no clinically relevant changes in laboratory parameters 
(haematology,  blood  chemistry,  and  urinalysis).  Considering 
the  PK  and  PD  profile  of 
nepafenac/amfenac,  the  potential  for  ethnic  differences  is  unlikely  and  therefore,  this  information 
serves to support the previous conclusion on the laboratory safety profile of nepafenac.  
•  Safety in special populations 
An analysis of adverse events was performed based upon various intrinsic factors (age, gender, race, 
iris  colour,  concomitant  diseases,  concomitant  medications,  and  time  of  adverse  event  onset)  in  the 
population  of  patients  in  the  post-cataract  inflammation  studies.  No  safety  issues  among  patients 
receiving nepafenac 1 mg/ml were revealed.  
Similarly, the safety evaluation of nepafenac in patients harbouring a number of different concomitant 
illnesses (e.g. glaucoma, DM, hypertension, GI disorders) have not shown any relevant safety finding. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Patients were allowed the use of concomitant medications not specifically prohibited by the protocol 
over the course of each study. Numerous concomitant medications were used by patients participating 
in  the  post-cataract  inflammation  studies  (C-95-93,  C-97-30,  C-02-53,  C-03-32,  C-04-41,  and  C-04-
65).  
The  occurrence  of  adverse  events  was  analysed  based  upon  patients’  use  of  various    concomitant 
medications:    antihistamine  drugs  ,  anti-infective  agents,    anticholinergic  agents,    sympathomimetic 
(adrenergic)  agents,  cardiovascular  drugs,  antilipemic  agents,    central  nervous  system  agents, 
analgesics and antipyretics, psychotherapeutic agents, EENT (eye, ear, nose and throat) preparations, 
gastrointestinal  drugs,  hormones  and  synthetic  substitutes,    antidiabetic  agents,  thyroid  and  anti-
thyroid agents.  
Adverse  events  did  not  occur  with  higher  frequencies  in  the  group  of  patients  treated  nepafenac 
1mg/ml  using  any  of  above  mentioned  concomitant  treatments,  compared  to  the  overall  population 
treated with nepafenac 1mg/ml or with vehicle in the post-cataract inflammation studies  
In  order  to  further  assess  the  safety  of  administering  nepafenac  1  mg/ml  in  conjunction  with  other 
topical ophthalmic medications, an analysis was performed comparing the incidence of adverse events 
in  patients  receiving  any  topical  ocular  medication  at  any  time  during  the  study  to  the  incidence  of 
adverse events for all patients that received subgroups of topical ocular medications (i.e., antibiotics, 
beta-blockers,  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitors,  alpha-agonists,  cycloplegics  and  mydriatics)  anytime 
during the study. These analyses were confined to the pivotal cataract studies only. 
Even though, no firm conclusions on the possible risk of local drug interactions can be drawn; the data 
provided show that most patients received additional topical ocular drugs according to clinical practice 
and in this setting the incidence of treatment related AE was almost nil, which is quite reassuring.  
Patients with ocular prostaglandin analogues use were systematically excluded from clinical trials, and 
a statement has been added in the SPC (section 4.4) to reflect this.  
@EMEA 2007 
35/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Four  patients  discontinued  study  participation  due  to  an  unrelated  serious  adverse  event  (2  patients 
(0.2%) with exposure to nepafenac 1 mg/ml, 1 patient (1.4%) with exposure to ketorolac 4 mg/ml, and 
1 patient (0.2%) with exposure to nepafenac Vehicle).  
Thirty-five patients overall discontinued study participation due to nonfatal adverse events. Most AE 
that  led  to  discontinuation  were  regarded  as  not  related.  Those  12  patients  discontinuing  due  to 
treatment related AE recorded the following AE:  
nepafenac  1mg/ml;  allergic  conjunctivitis,  choroidal  effusion,  keratitis,  corneal  deposits  ketorolac 
5mg/ml: conjunctival hyperaemia 
Nepafenac  vehicle;  eye  pain  and  photophobia,  corneal  oedema  in  2  patients,  iritis,  conjunctival 
oedema and allergic conjunctivitis, ciliary hyperemia, hypersensitivity. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Nepafenac  1  mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Suspension,  is  registered  in  the  United  States  as  NEVANAC 
(nepafenac ophthalmic suspension) 0.1% and received marketing authorization on 19 August 2005 for 
the indication; treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery.  
In the time period between 19 August 2005 and 30 September 2006, 111 spontaneous adverse event 
reports encompassing 217 reaction terms were received. Overall, most adverse reactions were reported 
in patients treated as prophylaxis following refractive surgical procedures.  
Twenty reports were classified as serious and associated with refractive surgery cases (15 reports: 7 
LASIK procedures; 5 PRK procedures; 3 unspecified procedures), cataract cases (2 reports) and 1 case 
each of corneal transplant, dry eye/allergy and cystoid macular oedema.  
Based  on  the  number  of  units  sold  (545,127)  during  this  time  interval,  the  overall  incidence  of 
spontaneous reports since initial marketing authorisation is approximately 0.02%. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
One  hundred  sixty-six  patients  have  been  exposed  to  nepafenac  1mg/ml  Eye  Drops  for  at  least  21 
days.  Even  though  the  vast  majority  of  patients  were  treated  for  a  shorter  duration,  these  data  add 
reassurance and support the maximum recommended duration of the treatment.   
The  safety  profile  of  nepafenac  does  not  appear  to  be  relevantly  different  from  placebo  (vehicle  of 
nepafenac)  or  ketorolac.  This  holds  true  for  both  the  overall  population  and  the  claimed  target 
population.  Only  the  higher  concentration  of  nepafenac  appears  to  show  a  numerically  increased 
incidence  of  particular  AE  (namely  foreign  body  sensation  and  vitreous  floaters).  However,  the 
number of patients treated is too low. Serious AE were infrequent. 
No  safety  issues  were  identified  based  upon  an  analysis  of  visual  acuity,  IOP  and  other  ocular 
examinations,  but  the  provision  of  plots  (with  confidence  intervals)  of  the  ocular  examinations  are 
requested. 
Data con cardiovascular findings are scarce and of limited value. Admittedly, no major cardiovascular 
safety concern is expected from an NSAID topically administered short-term at such low doses. 
There is no evidence for any relevant laboratory abnormalities that would be expected from a NSAID 
to be administered topically.  
The  safety  of  nepafenac  when  co-administered  with  a  wide  variety  of  drugs  (e.g.  antihistamine, 
anticholinergic  agents,  sympathomimetic,  analgesics  and  antipyretics)  did  not  reveal  specific  safety 
concerns.  
Even  though,  no  firm  conclusions  can  be  drawn  on  the  possible  risk  of  local  drug  interactions  with 
other  ophthalmic  medications  such  as  antibiotics,  anesthetics,  betablockers,  carbonic  anhydrase 
@EMEA 2007 
36/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inhibitors,  alpha-agonists,  cycloplegics,  and  mydriatics,  the  data  provided  show  that  most  patients 
received additional topical ocular drugs according to clinical practice and in this setting the incidence 
of treatment related AE was almost nil, which is quite reassuring.  
Patients with ocular prostaglandin analogues use were systematically excluded from clinical trials, and 
a statement has been added in the SPC (section 4.4) to reflect this. 
The  formulation  intended  for  marketing  utilized  benzalkonium  chloride  as  a  preservative  solution.  
The use of contact lenses should be avoided during treatment with nepafenac and is mentioned in the 
SPC (section 4.4). 
No safety concerns have  been raised from the post-marketing safety data but the information is still 
limited. 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table   14 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Safety concern 
Corneal disorders 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance 
(cid:131) no additional activity is 
proposed at this time 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
None at this time. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The excipients used in the 
preparation  of  the  finished  product  and  the  manufacturing  process  selected  are  appropriate  for  an 
ophthalmic  preparation.  The  results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  active  substance  and  the  finished 
product  can  be  reproducibly  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and 
uniform performance.   
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, adequate non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology data have been provided by the applicant. 
Efficacy 
A  complete  clinical  development  plan,  aimed  to  demonstrate  superiority  over  placebo  and  non-
inferiority over an active comparator have been performed. These studies show that nepafenac, given 
at 1mg/ml TID starting the day before surgery and up to 4 weeks after surgery,  has an ocular anti-
inflammatory effect superior to placebo and, although the magnitude of the effect is not impressive, it 
is similar to that seen with other currently authorised products of the same family (NSAIDs). 
@EMEA 2007 
37/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of the treatment for up to 3 weeks in the postoperative period after starting one day prior to 
surgery  is  recommended  in  the  Posology  section  (4.2)  of  the  SPC.  However,  final  evaluation  of  the 
treatment  duration  showed  that  14  days  treatment  should  be  recommended,  although  could  be 
extended for up to 3 weeks based on physician’s judgement. 
Plausible evidence for efficacy of the nepafenac eye drops 0.1 % suspension in the revised therapeutic 
indication has been presented in the dossier.  
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  nepafenac  does  not  appear  to  be  relevantly  different  from  placebo  (vehicle  of 
nepafenac) or the active comparator ketorolac. This holds true for both the overall population and the 
claimed  target  population.  Serious  AE  were  infrequent  and  none  of  them  considered  related  to  the 
study drug.  
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
Alcon Laboratories (U.K.) Limited provided a user testing report on NEVANAC (nepafenac) used to 
the prevention and treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery.  
Methodology 
The test was designed to be performed in two rounds of face-to-face interviews. Before the first round 
was conducted, a pilot set questionnaire of fourteen test questions was performed and consequently, 
the  questions  were  re-worded  and  re-designed  by  Consumation,  based  on  the  key  issues  associated 
with NEVANAC. 
The interviews were conducted by an experienced interviewer and took no longer than 45 minutes in 
duration (to avoid tiring participants) which is considered acceptable. 
With regards to the time aspects, omitting a reading phase prior to the interview simulates a “real life 
situation”  very  well.  Users  of  the  medicine  are  more  likely  to  be  searching  directly  for  specific 
answers  in  the  leaflet  than  to  be  reading  it  from  a  to  z  and  then  start  looking  for  answers.  This 
approach adds strength to the present user testing.  
Population 
The population recruited was 20 subjects in 2 stages, the first round (including 10 subjects) and the 
second round (including other 10 subjects).  
The number of subjects included on the user testing is considered sufficient according to the European 
requirements. (“Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for 
human use” Revision September 2006) 
Participants  were  recruited  using  a  professional  recruiter.  The  report  does  not  mention  how  the 
participants  were  recruited.  The  report  does  not  mention  any  exclusion  criteria  (for  instance,  people 
with medical training) nor does the report mention any inclusion criteria. Nevertheless, the participants 
are considered acceptable: 
-  All  the  subjects  were  healthy  volunteers  (no  familiarisation  time  was  allowed  before  interviews 
began)  ,  wearing  a  patch  over  one  eye  to  simulate less  than  perfect  vision,  since  this  product  is 
indicated  to  prevent  and  relieve  eye  pain  and  inflammation  following  a  cataract  surgery  on  the 
eye. 
-  The range of age used by the applicant was people aged from 46 to 67. Due to the fact that the 
cataract  surgery  could  be  carried  out  over  an  age  of  67,  the  applicant  could  have  chosen  some 
people over 67.  
-  Both genders were included in a balanced manner (60% female and 40% male) 
@EMEA 2007 
38/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Educational level of tested population is considered well balanced since covered different social 
groups using a system of classification widely used in social research.   
Questionnaire 
The number of questions included in the questionnaire is considered sufficient. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  fourteen  questions  for  the  interviews  related  to  sections  1  to  5  of  the 
Package Leaflet, including the instructions for use. 
Although  the  report  do not  describe  which  areas  in  the  leaflet  were  chosen  as  important  areas  to  be 
tested, we consider that the battery of questions covers all the important key-points in the leaflet and 
are  presented  in  a  random  order,  which  is  considered  acceptable.  Therefore,  the  proposed 
questionnaire is considered acceptable.  
Results 
The applicant recorded an  answer  as correct when the participants had achieved 3 criteria: that they 
can find, understand and use the information.  
Overall results on the NEVANAC 1 mg/ml eye drops, suspension shows that;  
(cid:131)  95.7% of the interviewees correctly located the information, which is considered acceptable. 
(cid:131)  94.6% of the interviewees correctly answered the question, which is considered acceptable. 
Conclusions 
Considering  the  design,  population,  questionnaire  and  results  provided  by  the  Applicant  of 
NEVANAC 1 mg/ml eye drops, suspension, the CHMP considers this User Testing acceptable. 
Due to the fact that the percentage of adequate results obtained in almost all the questions are above 
90%  no  changes  have  been  implemented,  although,  different  areas  of  potential  improvement  have 
been detected. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of NEVANAC in the prevention and treatment of postoperative 
pain  and  inflammation  associated  with  cataract  surgery  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
@EMEA 2007 
39/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
