Summary  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  for  Nevanac 
(Nepafenac)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Nevanac.  The  RMP 
details  important  risks  of  Nevanac,  how  these  risks can  be  minimized,  and  how 
more information will be obtained about Nevanac's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
Nevanac’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Nevanac 
should be used.
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Nevanac  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Nevanac’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Nevanac is authorised for (1) prevention and treatment of postoperative pain and 
inflammation  associated  with  cataract  surgery  and  (2)  reduction  in  the  risk  of 
postoperative  macular  oedema  associated  with  cataract  surgery  in  diabetic 
patients. 
It contains ‘nepafenac’ as the active substance and it is given as eye drops. It is 
available as 1 mg/ml and 3 mg/ml of nepafenac ophthalmic suspension. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Nevanac’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Nevanac’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to the EPAR summary landing page. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/nevanac
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize 
or further characterize the risks
Important risks of Nevanac, together with  measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Nevanac’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, 
in  the  package  leaflet  and  SmPC  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously  and  regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Nevanac are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of 
Nevanac. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal  product that  is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II B: Summary of important risks
Not applicable, since there are no important risks/safety concerns.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Nevanac.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Nevanac.
