EMA/347706/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000690 
EPAR summary for the public 
Nexavar 
sorafenib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Nexavar. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Nexavar. 
What is Nexavar? 
Nexavar is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance sorafenib. It is available as tablets 
(200 mg). 
What is Nexavar used for? 
Nexavar is used to treat patients who have the following diseases: 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (a type of liver cancer); 
• 
• 
advanced renal cell carcinoma (a type of kidney cancer) when anticancer treatment with interferon 
alfa or interleukin 2 has failed or cannot be used; 
differentiated thyroid carcinoma (a type of cancer originating from the follicular cells of the thyroid 
gland) when the cancer has progressed or spread locally or to other parts of the body and does not 
respond to treatment with radioactive iodine. 
Because the numbers of patients with these diseases are low, the diseases are considered ‘rare’, and 
Nexavar was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Nexavar used? 
Treatment with Nexavar should be supervised by doctors who have experience of anticancer 
treatments. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Nexavar is given as two tablets twice a day, without food or with a meal that is low in fat. The 
treatment is continued as long as the patient continues to benefit from it without too many side 
effects. To manage side effects, treatment may have to be temporarily interrupted or the dose may be 
reduced. 
How does Nexavar work? 
The active substance in Nexavar, sorafenib, is a protein kinase inhibitor. This means that it blocks 
some specific enzymes known as protein kinases. These enzymes can be found in some receptors on 
the surface of cancer cells, where they are involved in the growth and spread of cancer cells, and in 
the blood vessels that supply the tumours, where they are involved in the development of new blood 
vessels. By blocking these enzymes, Nexavar can reduce the growth of cancer cells and cut off the 
blood supply that keeps cancer cells growing. 
How has Nexavar been studied? 
Nexavar has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in three main studies. The first study 
involved 602 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma; the second involved 903 patients with advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in whom one previous anticancer treatment had stopped working; and the third 
study involved 417 patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma that had progressed or spread locally 
or to other parts of the body and did not respond to treatment with radioactive iodine. The main 
measures of effectiveness were how long the patients survived or how long the patients lived without 
their disease getting worse. 
What benefit has Nexavar shown during the studies? 
Nexavar was more effective than placebo in increasing how long the patients survived or how long the 
patients lived without their disease getting worse. 
In the study of hepatocellular carcinoma, the patients taking Nexavar survived for an average of 10.7 
months, compared with 7.9 months in those taking placebo. 
In the study of renal cell carcinoma, the patients taking Nexavar survived for an average of 19.3 
months, compared with 15.9 months in those taking placebo. This finding was based on the results 
from all 903 patients, including about 200 who had switched from placebo to Nexavar before the end 
of the study. The patients taking Nexavar lived for longer without their disease getting worse (167 
days, around five and a half months) than those who took placebo (84 days, around three months). 
This finding was based on the results from 769 patients. 
In the study in differentiated thyroid carcinoma, the patients taking Nexavar lived for an average of 
10.8 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 5.8 months in those taking placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Nexavar? 
The most common side effects with Nexavar are diarrhoea, rash, alopecia (hair loss), infection, hand 
foot skin reaction (rash and pain on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet) and fatigue 
(tiredness). The most important serious side effects are myocardial infarction (heart attack) or 
ischaemia (reduced oxygen supply to the heart), gastrointestinal perforation (a hole that develops in 
the wall of the gut), drug-induced hepatitis (a disease of the liver), haemorrhage (bleeding) and 
hypertension or hypertensive crisis (high blood pressure). 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Nexavar, see the package leaflet. 
Nexavar  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Why has Nexavar been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Nexavar’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Nexavar 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Nexavar on 19 July 2006.  
The summaries of the opinions of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Nexavar can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations: 
• 
renal cell carcinoma (29 July 2004) 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (11 April 2006)  
• 
papillary thyroid cancer and follicular thyroid cancer (13 November 2013) 
The full EPAR for Nexavar can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Nexavar, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2014. 
Nexavar  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
