London, 20 September 2007 
Product name: NEXAVAR 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/690/II/05 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Nexavar  contains  sorafenib,  an  antineoplastic  agent  that  acts  as  protein  kinase  inhibitor  (ATC  code: 
L01XE05).  Sorafenib  inhibits  tumour  cell  proliferation  and  the  tumour  vascularisation  through 
activating the receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) signalling RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK cascade pathway. 
Nexavar is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who have failed 
prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered unsuitable for such therapy. 
The recommended dosage is 400 mg bid given orally as 2x 200 mg tablets.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) has now applied for an extension of indication to include 
treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. Sections 4.1, 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SPC have been updated 
and the Package Leaflet has been amended accordingly. The proposed dosage for the new indication is 
the same as that previously approved for renal cell carcinoma, i.e. 400 mg (two tablets) twice daily.  
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 
It has been estimated that world wide about 560 000 new cases of hepatocellular cancer are diagnosed 
per year, but in Europe HCC is an orphan disease most commonly seen in patients with cirrhosis. In 
the western world, an increase is foreseen due to the increased incidence of chronic hepatitis C. Other 
aetiologies include chronic hepatitis B and alcohol.  
(Thomas et al, JCO 2005) 
Potentially curative therapies include resection, transplantation and percutaneous ablation.  
In patients for whom surgery or ablation is not an option, TACE (transarterial chemoembolization) has 
been used in some centers. In general, it is assumed that the best candidates for TACE are those who 
still have well-preserved liver function (normal or Child-Pugh class A) and multinodular, 
asymptomatic tumors without vascular invasion. These patients constitute less than 15% of the HCC 
population. However, TACE is not used uniformly as a therapeutic option worldwide.  
There are currently no medicinal products licensed in the EU for the treatment of HCC, but, e.g., 
doxorubicin alone or in combinations has some use in clinical practice. Recently (Robert Gish et al, 
JCO July 2007) a randomised study comparing the experimental compound nolatrexed with 
doxorubicin showed a survival benefit for doxorubicin. The results of this study will be discussed in 
relation to the outcome of the sorafenib study as appropriate (see below).         
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical aspects 
Study MRC-01324 
Preclinical data submitted in support of this variation consists of a primary pharmacodynamic study 
“Sorafenib blocks the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway, inhibits tumour angiogenesis and induces tumor cell 
apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma model PLC/PRF/5”  (Study MRC-0134) and a series of 
literature references.  
Sorafenib blocks the enzyme RAF kinase and inhibits the VEGF-2/PDGFR-beta signalling cascade. 
Sorafenib is a multi-kinase inhibitor with activity against pathways of cell growth and angiogenesis, 
including serine/threonine kinases c-Raf and B-raf and the receptor tyrosine kinase RET, Flt-3 and c-
Kit.  
The new pharmacology data for sorafenib includes a description of the activity of sorafenib on the 
proliferation of human hepatocellular tumour cells and the tumour growth inhibitory effects of the 
compound when administered to immunodeficient mice bearing human models of hepatocellular 
carcinomas grown as xenografts.  
HCC is characterized by the activation of intracellular signalling pathways, namely the 
Raf/MEK/ERK pathway (MAPK pathway), and is a highly angiogenic tumour. The Raf/MEK/ERK 
pathway can be activated by a number of mechanisms including the epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR) and the receptor for hepatocytes growth factor. In addition, the hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
nonstructural protein NS5A has been shown to interact and activate Raf kinase, in a process crucial for 
viral replication, which leads to the activation of the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway and increased viral 
replication. This activation of Raf by NS5A can be inhibited by sorafenib. Vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), one of the most potent growth factor for endothelial cells, is found overexpressed in 
HCC. In addition, the receptor for VEGF, VEGFR2, has been found inappropriately expressed on 
HCC tumour cells, opening up the possibility for an autocrine VEGF/VEGFR2 loop supporting 
tumour cell growth. 
In two models of human hepatocellular carcinoma, sorafenib inhibited tumour cell growth in vitro and 
this inhibition was associated with the down regulation of the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway. Sorafenib 
inhibited the proliferation of human HCC cell lines PLC/PRF/5 (p53-mutant) and HepG2 (p53-wild-
type) in vitro with IC50 values of 6.3 and 4.5 µM, respectively (it is noted that likely an erroneous 
value for IC50 has been included in the pharmacology written summary; 1.6 instead of 4.5 µM). This 
inhibition correlated with the inhibition of the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway as measured by the 
phosphorylation of MEK and ERK (pMEK and pERK). Phosphorylation levels of AKT were not 
affected. The reduction in MEK and ERK phosphorylation led to a reduction in the proliferation 
marker cyclin D1 in both cell lines, consistent with the anti-proliferative activity of the compound. 
Further the anti-apoptotic protein Mc1-1 was reduced by sorafenib in both cell lines. 
When tested in vivo against PLC/PRF/5 tumour grown as tumour xenograft in severe combined 
immunodeficiency (SCID) mice, sorafenib  inhibited its growth, with partial tumour regressions seen 
at the highest dose used. A dose of 10 mg/kg once a day inhibited tumour growth by 49% and 
complete tumour stasis was seen at a dose of 30 mg/kg. In further studies using PLC/PRF/5 xenograft 
tumours, analysis revealed a decrease in Raf/MEK/ERK signalling (pERK) and a reduction in tumour 
vasculature (TUNEL staining) supporting the dual mechanism of action of sorafenib; that of targeting 
both tumour cell signalling and tumour angiogenesis. The reduction if Raf/MEK/ERK signalling and 
tumor vasculature was accompanied by an increase in tumour cell apoptosis and inhibition of tumour 
growth.  
Discussion on Non-clinical aspects 
Sorafenib was shown to exhibit antitumour activity with effects on both tumour cell signalling 
(Raf/MEK/ERK pathway) and angiogenesis and induced tumour cell apoptosis. Sorafenib seemed to 
inhibit MEK/ERK dependent and independent signalling. The non-clinical data are consistent with the 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fact that sorafenib activity in HCC is coupled to inhibition of RAF/MEK/ERK signalling, induction of 
MEK/ERK independent pro-apoptopic effects and inhibition of angiogenesis. While comparisons on a 
mg/kg dose basis are uncertain, the non-clinical data in vitro and in vivo support a role of sorafenib at 
clinically relevant doses in the treatment of HCC.  
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Two new pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted in the present application; one phase I study in 
Japanese patients with HCC (Study 10875) and one population pharmacokinetic analysis on 
pharmacokinetic data from different studies, including the phase III study in HCC (see below). For 
reference, the MAH also discusses the previously submitted phase II study in patients with HCC and 
mild-moderate hepatic impairment (Study 10874).  
Study 10874 (submitted with original Marketing Authorisation Application) 
Study 10874 was conducted to evaluate the anti-cancer activity, safety, pharmacokinetics and 
tolerability of sorafenib at the 400 mg BID dose in patients with advanced inoperable HCC.  Patients 
in this study had a baseline hepatic function status of either Child-Pugh A (n=15) or Child-Pugh B 
(n=6).  Plasma samples were collected at steady state over the 12-hour dosing interval, at 28 days after 
the start of dosing.   
Unfortunately, concentration data up to 12 hours were available only in 6 subjects, and therefore 
AUC(0-8),ss at 400 mg BID rather than AUC(0-12),ss was presented. 
Sorafenib plasma pharmacokinetic parameters (presented as geometric mean, %CV except for tmax which 
is presented as median, range) in hepatically impaired cancer patients dosed 400 mg BID  
Child Pugh 
Status 
Child Pugh A 
Child Pugh B 
N=15 
Geometric mean 
(Approx. CV%) 
N=6 
Geometric mean 
(Approx. CV%) 
AUC(0-8,ss) 
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax,ss 
(mg/L) 
25.4 (38.4%) 
4.92 (38.7%) 
30.3 (82.1%) 
5.97 (73.8%) 
tmax,ss 
(h) 
1.0 
(0-12) 
0.5 
(0-8) 
It was suggested that the AUC values observed in this study were within the range of AUC observed 
in previous phase I studies in patients without hepatic impairment, and that the increased AUC in 
Child Pugh B patients was not clinically relevant. There was no correlation between AUC and toxicity 
and no obvious difference in tolerability between the two groups in this study.  
The pharmacokinetics of the metabolites is shown in table below.  
M5 AUC(0-8,ss) and Cmax,ss values appear to be slightly lower in Child-Pugh B patients compared to 
Child-Pugh A patients.  However, these parameters have overlapping ranges in the two populations.  
The AUC(0-8,ss) and Cmax,ss values of M2 and M4 metabolites are similar in Child-Pugh A and B 
patients. 
During the assessment of the original application for renal carcinoma, dose adjustments or special 
caution were not considered necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. The SPC, 
however, includes a warning that exposure might be increased in severe hepatic impairment, and that 
no data for the latter group is available.  
4
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma Cmax,ss and AUC(0-8,ss) values of M2, M4, and M5 (geometric mean, %CV) following twice daily 
administration of 400 mg BID sorafenib to hepatically impaired cancer patients  
Analyte 
PK Parameter 
AUC(0-8,ss) 
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax,ss  
(mg/L) 
AUC(0-8),ss  
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax,ss  
(mg/L) 
AUC(0-8,ss)  
Cmax,ss  
(mg/L) 
BAY 67-3472 
(M2: N-oxide metabolite) 
BAY 43-9007 
(M4: N-demethyl metabolite) 
BAY 68-7769 
(M5: N-oxide of BAY 43-9007) 
a) n=14 
Study 10875 (new) 
Child-Pugh A 
(n=15) 
Child-Pugh B 
(n=6) 
5.38 (63.3%) 
5.24 (112%) 
1.03 (62.4%) 
0.93 (113%) 
1.43 (97.1%) 
1.68 (173%) 
0.31 (101%) 
0.35 (158%) 
1.98 (84.8%)a 
1.13 (130%) 
0.33 (116%) 
0.26 (113%) 
This was a Phase I study to describe the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of 200 mg BID and 
400 mg BID sorafenib in Japanese HCC patients.  Twelve patients were evaluable in the 200 mg group 
(6 Child-Pugh A and 6 Child-Pugh B) and 11-14 patients were evaluable in the 400 mg group 
(6 Child-Pugh A and 5-8 Child-Pugh B).  Eight of the Child Pugh A subjects and all of the Child Pugh 
B subjects were positive for hepatitis C antigen. Three Child Pugh A subjects and one Child Pugh B 
subject tested positive for hepatitis B.  
Patients received a single dose of either 200 or 400 mg sorafenib followed by a 7 day washout period, 
so that the single dose pharmacokinetics could be properly evaluated.  After the washout period, the 
twice-daily dosing regimen was begun, and additional pharmacokinetic evaluations were performed on 
Days 14 and 28 of multiple dosing.  The pharmacokinetic results for sorafenib are shown in Table 3.  
At both doses there was no discernible difference in sorafenib pharmacokinetics between the Child-
Pugh A and Child-Pugh B patients.  The mean AUC and Cmax tended to be lower in the Child-Pugh B 
patients, but this was suggested to be a consequence of the pharmacokinetic variability in both groups.  
Mean half-life ranged from 22 to 30 hours, which is similar to that reported for healthy volunteers.  
The steady-state AUC(0-12) values were generally consistent with the single dose AUC values, though 
the Day 14 and Day 28 AUC(0-12) values in Child-Pugh A patients on 400 mg BID were slightly greater 
than Day 1 AUCs.  The exposures seen with the 400 mg BID dose regimen did not show a dose-
proportional increase relative to the 200 mg BID regimen, also suggested possibly due to the 
pharmacokinetic variability of sorafenib and relatively small number of patients. 
The pharmacokinetics of metabolites after 28 days of 400 mg BID dosing are shown in the table 
below. The results were similar for the 200 mg BID dose and on day 14, and are not presented here.  
Also for the metabolites, there were no discernible differences between the Child Pugh A and the 
Child Pugh B group, suggesting no difference in metabolism based on Child-Pugh status.   
5
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic parameters (geometric mean, %CV) of sorafenib in Japanese HCC patients following a 
single 200 mg or 400 mg dose and multiple doses of 200 mg or 400 mg BID  
Study Day 
PK Parameter 
Single Dose 
AUC 
(mg*h/L) 
AUC(0-12) 
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax 
(mg/L) 
t½  
(h) 
Cycle 1 Day 
14 
AUC(0-12),ss 
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax,ss 
(mg/L) 
Cycle 1 Day 
28 
AUC(0-12),ss 
(mg*h/L) 
Cmax,ss 
(mg/L) 
Child-Pugh A 
(n=6) 
200 mg BID 
Child-Pugh B 
(n=6) 
Child-Pugh A 
(n=6) 
400 mg BID 
Child-Pugh B 
(n=8/6/5)a 
28.3 (190%) 
18.6 (74%) 
20.3 (90)% 
26.9 (97%) 
5.02 (190%) 
2.75 (61%) 
3.82 (86%) 
3.11 (88%) 
0.81 (196%) 
0.49 (68%) 
0.55 (84%) 
0.53 (87%) 
25.1 (30%) 
30.4 (36%) 
22.3 (12%) 
27.2 (45%) 
25.5 (75%) 
15.3 (55%) 
33.5 (60%) 
29.5 (59%)b 
3.36 (87%) 
1.89 (62%) 
4.66 (66%) 
3.04 (94%) 
31.6 (102%) 
20.0 (73%) 
28.9 (87%) 
20.7 (72%) 
4.22 (92%) 
3.32 (79%) 
3.32 (113%) 
4.01 (79%) 
a) n=8 single dose; n=6 Day 14; n=5 Day 28 
b) n=5 
Plasma PK variables of sorafenib metabolites in Japanese Child Pugh A and B patients following 
administration of 200 mg or 400 mg BID for 28 days (geometric mean, %CV) 
M4 
1.08 (119%) 
M2 
4.41 (175%) 
Child-Pugh A 
M5 
0.97 (177%) 
AUC(0-12),ss 
(mg*h/L) 
Child-Pugh B 
Ratioa 
Cmax,ss 
(mg/L) 
Ratio 
AUC(0-12),ss 
(mg*h/L) 
Ratio 
Cmax,ss 
(mg/L) 
Ratio 
12.25 (41%) 
3.00 (35%) 
2.70 (71%) 
0.5 (206%) 
0.12 (154%) 
0.11 (224%) 
12.2 (36%) 
2.96 (39%) 
2.69 (69%) 
2.75 (127%) 
0.82 (194%) 
0.48 (451%) 
10.8 (47%) 
3.23 (59%) 
1.89 (161%) 
0.49 (115%) 
0.15 (206%) 
0.10 (237%) 
10.1 (53%) 
3.13 (65%) 
2.13 (88%) 
ratio of each metabolite to the sum of all analytes (sorafenib, M2, M4 and M5) 
6
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis (Study 12785) 
Plasma sorafenib concentration data from the Phase III HCC Study 100554 (n=164) and Phase II 
Study 10874 (n=20) along with multiple dose pharmacokinetic data from 7 single agent Phase I 
studies and single dose pharmacokinetic data from 3 healthy volunteer studies, were analysed by 
population pharmacokinetic methods. The population pharmacokinetic model was developed based on 
data from twelve studies (100283, 10164, 100277, 100342, 100483, 100545, 10658, 11497, 10874, 
10875, and 100554 including 479 subjects (410 cancer patients and 69 healthy subjects) with in total 
6446 plasma concentration observations. Population analysis was performed with NONMEM software 
version V, using first order conditional estimation method with interaction. 
The chosen structural model was a two compartment model with first order absorption and a lag time. 
Bioavailability was modelled as dose dependent and a stepwise model was considered most adequate 
based on objective function value.  Exponential error models were used to describe interindividual 
variance and a proportional residual error model. Covariates were tested in a forward inclusion process 
using inclusion criteria of p<0.001 corresponding to a difference in OFV of 10.83 for 1 additional 
parameter (1 degree of freedom).  
The influence of age, body weight, gender, ethnicity (Japanese versus non-Japanese), baseline SGOT 
(AST), SGPT (ALT), bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, total protein, creatinine clearance (estimated 
from serum creatinine) and disease (cancer patients versus healthy subjects) on sorafenib clearance 
was evaluated. The effect of age, body weight, gender and ethnicity (Japanese versus non-Japanese) 
on the central and peripheral volumes of distribution was evaluated. The effect of total protein and 
disease (cancer patients versus healthy subjects) on central volume of distribution was also evaluated. 
The effect of ethnicity (Japanese versus non-Japanese) on absorption rate constant and bioavailability 
was evaluated. In the first step of the stepwise forward inclusion procedure, inclusion of ethnicity 
(Japanese versus non-Japanese) as a covariate for absorption rate constant resulted in a maximum 
decrease (24.359 points) in the value of objective function. In the second step, inclusion of SGOT 
(AST) as a covariate for clearance resulted in a maximum decrease (11.305 points) in the value of 
objective function and in the third step, inclusion of bilirubin as a covariate for clearance resulted in a 
maximum decrease (11.701 points) in the value of objective function. No additional covariates were 
identified in the fourth and final step of the covariate model building procedure. The final model 
together with confidence intervals obtained with nonparametric bootstrap is presented in Table 5. 
Table 5 : Sorafenib population pharmacokinetic parameters 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The model included a relation to SGOT which suggested that a SGOT value > normal would result in 
higher clearance although not physiologically plausible. The MAH concludes that the covariate 
relations are not clinically relevant. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
Sorafenib is eliminated via metabolism (mainly CYP3A4 and glucuronidation) and likely also to some 
extent by biliary excretion. Unchanged sorafenib recovered in faeces has been suggested to represent 
not only unabsorbed drug but also biliary excreted drug, either as parent compound or as glucuronide, 
which has then been cleaved to sorafenib in the gut. Metabolic hepatic impairment and possibly 
cholestasis might therefore be expected to affect the elimination of sorafenib. 
None of the two studies in hepatically impaired patients included a control group without hepatic 
impairment so a direct comparison could not be made, although the AUC values observed in the 
studies appear to be within the range observed for healthy subjects in phase I studies. The degree of 
metabolic impairment vs. e.g. degree of cholestatis was not discussed for these patients and the results 
from HCC patients cannot readily be extrapolated to cirrhosis patients.  
A new study in hepatically impaired Japanese subjects confirmed the results from a previous study in 
non-Japanese subjects. Based on these data, the increase in sorafenib exposure in patients with 
moderate hepatic impairment is marginal compared with patients with mild hepatic impairment and 
does not warrant dose adjustments. Unfortunately, there is no pharmacokinetic data in severe hepatic 
impairment, which is considered a deficiency, as also safety data from this group is lacking. The 
possibility to make a specific recommendation for patients with HCC and severe hepatic impairment, 
perhaps specifically in patients with metabolic impairment or cholestasis, would be valuable.   
The MAH has made a post-authorisation commitment to discuss the possibility to obtain data on the 
pharmacokinetics of sorafenib in patients with severe hepatic impairment and make adequate 
recommendations for this group.  
The submitted population pharmacokinetic analysis is not considered informative. Several problems 
with the model has been identified, that must be resolved if the model is going to be used in further 
PK/PD modelling or for simulation purposes. However, for approval of the new indication, a re-
analysis is not required. Even if re-analysed, the population pharmacokinetic data is not expected to 
add useful information from a pharmacokinetic perspective to that already obtained in the two 
pharmacokinetic studies, since no data from subjects with severe renal impairment are available.   
Clinical efficacy 
Main studies 
The efficacy of sorafenib in HCC patients is primarily based on the Phase III, randomized, double-
blind, placebo-controlled trial (Study 100554), and also supported by Study 10874 (a single arm, large 
Phase II study in HCC). 
Study 100554 (pivotal) 
This was a Phase III randomized, placebo-controlled study of sorafenib in patients with advanced 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Period of study: 10 Mar 2005 to 17 Oct 2006. 
Objectives:  
Primary:  
Overall survival (OS) and time to symptomatic progression (TTSP). 
Secondary: 
Time to tumour progression (TTP)  
Overall disease control rate 
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) response rate 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tertiary: 
Overall response rate, overall response duration, and time to objective response. 
FACT-Hep Physical Well-being (PWB) and Functional Well-being (FWB) subscale 
response rates. 
Other    
(will be reported separately): 
Biomarker programme 
Treatment:  
Sorafenib (or matching placebo) was administered orally at a dose of 400 mg (2 x 200 mg tablets) 
twice daily; 2 dose reductions to predefined levels of 400 mg once daily (OD) and 400 mg every other 
day were permitted for adverse events related to study treatment. Study treatment was administered 
orally on a continuous schedule, but for the purpose of data recording, the treatment period was 
divided into 6-week cycles. Study drug could be taken either with a low/moderate fat meal or without 
food. After a dose, patients did not have to wait before eating. 
Treatment was continued until death or until a criterion for stopping therapy was met. Treatment 
beyond radiological and symptomatic progression was allowed upon request of the treating 
investigator. 
Subjects assigned to the placebo arm were not crossed over to the sorafenib arm at any time during the 
study before the OS endpoint was met. 
Key inclusion criteria: 
•  Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks 
•  Advanced HCC (subjects not eligible for surgical or loco-regional treatments) 
•  Histologically or cytologically documented HCC 
•  At least one tumour lesion that met both of the following criteria: 
-  Measurable according to RECIST (response evaluation criteria in solid tumours) 
-  Not previously treated with local therapy (such as surgery, radiation therapy, hepatic 
arterial  therapy, chemo-embolization, radiofrequency ablation, etc.)  
•  Local therapy completed at least 4 weeks prior to the baseline scan. 
•  ECOG PS (eastern cooperative oncology group performance status) of 0, 1, or 2 
•  Child-Pugh class A liver function status only.  
Key exclusion criteria: 
•  Cardiac 
-  Congestive heart failure > NYHA (New York Heart Association) class 2;  
-  Active coronary artery disease (CAD);  
-  Cardiac arrhythmias requiring anti-arrhythmic therapy other than beta blockers or 
digoxin;  
uncontrolled hypertension.  
- 
-  Myocardial infarction more than 6 months prior to study entry was permitted. 
•  CNS tumours including metastatic brain disease 
•  Subjects with clinically significant gastrointestinal bleeding within 30 days prior to study 
entry 
Statistical Planning (SAP dated December 2006) 
All randomized patients (Intent to Treat Population) will be included in the primary analyses. One-
sided alpha of 0.02 and 0.005 will be used for OS and TTSP analyses, respectively. 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomization will be stratified by geographical region [North America versus South America 
(including Mexico) versus Europe (including Australia/New Zealand)], ECOG performance status (0 
vs 1 vs 2) and tumour burden (presence of either macroscopic vascular invasion and/or extrahepatic 
spread vs none).   
It was expected that there will be a small number of patients with ECOG PS 2. Patients with ECOG PS 
1 and 2 will be combined together for statistical analyses. The following efficacy analyses were to be 
performed according to the above stratification with ECOG PS 1 and 2 combined (i.e. Geographic 
region, ECOG 0 vs 1 and 2, and tumour burden). 
The first interim analysis of OS was planned when approximately170 deaths were observed. The 
second interim analysis of OS was planned when approximately 300 deaths were observed. For OS 
interim analyses, an O’Brien-Fleming-type error spending function will determine the criteria for early 
stopping for efficacy so that the overall false positive rate (alpha) is less than or equal to 0.02 (one-
sided).  
The scenario in the table below serves as an example. The actual boundaries used for analyses will be 
calculated according to the actual number of events (deaths) for a given analysis. 
Stopping Criteria and Alpha Spending at the Interim and Final Analyses of Overall Survival 
Sensitivity analyses will be carried out for Overall Survival and TTSP as follows: 
1. Stratified log-rank using stratification from IVRS 
2. Non-stratified log-rank 
3. Non-stratified log-rank adjusting for covariates of region, ECOG, and tumour burden from CRF 
(Cox regression) 
Results 
At the time of the data cut-off (2nd interim analysis, 17 Oct 2006) study enrolment had been 
completed. Altogether 602 subjects had been randomized. Among randomized subjects, 146 (24%) 
were randomized from Germany, 111 (18%) from Italy, 98 (16%) from France, 36 (6%) from Spain 
and 34 (6%) from the United States. All other countries each contributed 5% or less of subjects each. 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and Baseline Characteristics in Study 100554 (Subjects Valid For Intent to Treat 
Population) 
Baseline Cancer Characteristics 
The median time from initial diagnosis to randomization was 0.4 years (range 0 to 9.2 years). The 
tumour histology was liver cell carcinoma in 563 subjects (93.5%), and other HCC subtypes in the 
remaining cases. According to the investigator, the majority (64%) of subjects was reported to have 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
progressive disease at the time they entered the study, and nearly half of the subjects had TNM stage 
IV disease at that time. 
Prior Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma 
Prior systemic therapy for HCC (except for hormonal therapy), was an exclusion criterion in this 
study, but was administered to 3 (1%) subjects randomized to placebo and 1 (0.3%) subject 
randomized to sorafenib. 
Efficacy  
- First primary endpoint 
Overall Survival (2nd interim analysis, cut-off 17 October 2006) 
The stratified log-rank test had a 1-sided nominal P-value of 0.000583. The pre-specified nominal 
alpha for this analysis was 0.0077. 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline variables that were significant in a model including treatment and the single covariate were 
included in a multivariate stepwise regression procedure. In this stepwise Cox regression the following 
conditions were associated with decreased survival regardless of treatment: 
•  Baseline ECOG greater than 0 
•  Macroscopic vascular invasion 
•  Presence of macroscopic vascular invasion and/or extrahepatic spread 
13
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Child-Pugh status of B or C 
•  Higher than median baseline AFP 
•  Lower than median baseline albumin 
•  Higher than median baseline alkaline phosphatase 
•  Higher than median baseline total bilirubin. 
- Second primary endpoint 
Symptomatic progression was defined as a decrease of at least 4 points from baseline score based on 
subject responses to the FHSI-8 questionnaire with a confirmatory decline at the next actual visit, 
deterioration to an ECOG PS of 4, or death.  
Time to symptomatic progression 
- Secondary endpoints 
Time to progression 
TTP Based on Independent Radiological Review Up to Data Cut-off Date 12 May 2006 
The independent radiology review did not continue after 12th of May, but investigator radiological 
assessments continued throughout the entire duration of the study and the results of TTP per 
investigator assessment up to the cut-off date of this report (17 Oct 2006) are presented below. 
TTP Based on Investigator Assessment of Radiographic Scans 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Best Tumour Response and Disease Control Rate by Independent Radiological Review Up to the 
Cut-off Date of 12 May 2006 (RECIST) in 
The disease control rate (DCR), (defined as at least SD for at least 28 days), was 31.7% (96 subjects) 
in the placebo group, compared with 43.5% (130 subjects) in the sorafenib group.  
DCR rates are markedly affected by the availability of “follow-up” scans since the rate calculation 
requires non-progressing patients to have at least 2 follow-up scans after the baseline scan to 
contribute to disease control rates. If patients that did not have the opportunity to have two scans are 
excluded, the DCR rate is 54% (129/240) for the sorafenib group and 39% (95/242) for the placebo 
group. 
Study 10874 (supportive) 
Study 10874, a single-arm, uncontrolled international Phase II trial, enrolled patients with “advanced”, 
measurable HCC who had not received prior systemic (excluding hormonal) therapy for HCC.  
Patients with rare subtypes of HCC (fibrolamellar variant, mixed cholangio-hepatocellular carcinoma) 
were excluded.  Prior surgical and loco-regional therapy was permitted.  Inclusion criteria permitted 
enrollment of patients with either Child-Pugh class A or Child-Pugh class B liver function status.  The 
term “advanced” was not defined in the protocol, but was understood to mean those not suitable for 
potentially curative therapy (i.e., “inoperable”), and was not defined according to criteria for any 
specific staging system. 
Study 10874 enrolled 98 patients with Child-Pugh status A and 38 patients with Child-Pugh status B 
(One patient had data missing for Child-Pugh scoring).  No patients with Child-Pugh C were enrolled 
in Study 10874. 
The primary endpoint was objective tumour response rate. Of 137 treated subjects from investigator 
assessment, 8 subjects achieved partial response (PR) and 6 achieved minor response (MR); 72 
subjects had stable disease and 32 subjects had PD as their best response.  
As per investigator assessment, median TTP was 18.4 weeks, and median OS was 39.4 weeks. These 
results were considered encouraging in comparison to historical data: the median survival of untreated 
patients with non-resectable HCC is cited in the literature to be less than 6 months. 
Outcomes of subjects with Child-Pugh A status at baseline were seemingly better (in terms of tumour 
response, TTP, and OS) compared to subjects with Child-Pugh B status at baseline. 
A secondary objective was to evaluate phosphorylated extracellular-signal-related kinase (pERK) in 
pre-treatment tumour biopsies and to explore its relationship to measures of clinical benefit. 
Thirty-three (24%) treated subjects had both pERK data and clinical anti-tumour activity data. There 
appeared to be a statistically significant correlation between pERK levels (measured as maximum 
staining intensity) within the tumour and TTP.  
As a result, tumours that contain higher levels of pERK may be more sensitive to the raf kinase 
inhibitory activity of sorafenib than those tumours that have lower levels of pERK and which may be 
driven by other signalling pathways. 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pERK expression was comparable in subjects with Child-Pugh class A and B across different degrees 
of staining intensity and a retrospective analysis of the magnitude of change in the size of target 
lesions by Child-Pugh cirrhotic status, demonstrated similar patterns of tumour response.  
Discussion on Clinical efficacy 
Study 100554 
The use of placebo as comparator was accepted in a CHMP scientific advice procedure in 2004 due to 
the absence of reference products with at that time documented favourable benefit/risk in the target 
population for this study. Similarly, the exclusion of patients with liver impairment > Child-Pugh A 
was accepted due to seemingly less favourable results in Child-Pugh B patients in an exploratory, 
single arm study. 
Note that there are two alternative primary endpoints (i.e. efficacy established if either positive), 
overall survival and time to symptomatic progression (TTSP). The latter was introduced based on 
recommendations from FDA. Both measures are in principle acceptable from an EU perspective, but 
at the time of the CHMP advice, only survival was discussed (and endorsed).   
From a statistical perspective, the analysis plan is acceptable, but at least the first interim analysis is 
conducted on too immature data.  
Base line characteristics 
White, European males dominated the trial and the proportion of women is smaller than expected. The 
percentage of patients with hepatitis B/C as the only likely etiological factor was about 45% and data 
are therefore considered to be reasonably informative for EU, given the variability in chronic hepatitis 
comparing north and south. Only few individuals with PS status 2 were included, but the percentage of 
patients above 65 years of age was around 60%. 
The BCLC (Barcelona-clinic liver cancer) staging classification (1999) comprises four stages. Early 
stage (A) includes patients with asymptomatic early tumours suitable for radical therapies with 
curative intent. Intermediate stage (B) comprises patients with asymptomatic multinodular HCC. 
Advanced stage (C) includes patients with symptomatic tumours and/or an invasive tumoural pattern 
(vascular invasion/extrahepatic spread). End-stage disease (D) contains patients with extremely grim 
prognosis that should merely receive symptomatic treatment. This study enrolled mainly stage C 
patients (about 80%).  
In comparison with the nolatrexed vs. doxorubicin study, it is noticed that in the latter study about 
25% of the patients had a Child Pugh score of B and about 14% had a Karnofsky PS of ≤70. A 
qualified comparison is not considered possible, but it appears as if the overall prognosis is poorer in 
this study compared with the sorafenib study.    
Efficacy results – primary endpoints 
A significant difference in the median duration of overall survival has been demonstrated, in favor of 
the Sorafenib arm (10.6 months for the Sorafenib arm versus 7.9 months for the placebo arm).  
This difference is derived from a planned interim analysis, with a reasonable number of events and the 
analysis is performed on the ITT population. The median duration of survival for patients in the 
placebo comparator arm is acceptable when compared to the historical series of advanced HCC (5 
months). 
Therefore, a favourable effect on overall survival has convincingly been demonstrated, even though 
the number of events after the median appears too low to obtain a precise estimate of the treatment 
effect in patients with a less unfavourable prognosis. Due to the magnitude of the treatment effect, this 
constitutes no concern from a regulatory perspective. Nevertheless it is proposed that the applicant 
should submit the most mature data set possible not being too confounded by cross-over. The MAH 
has made a commitment in this regard. 
The nolatrexed trial was analysed when survival data were mature (about 80% event rate). Median 
survival in the doxorubicin arm was 32 weeks and the hazard ratio was 0.75, p=0.0068 in favour of 
doxorubicin.     
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to exploratory subgroup analyses encompassing a reasonable number of patients, the 
treatment effect appears stable, possible exceptions being patients with metastatic disease at baseline 
(HR: 0.90, n=294) and patients below 65 years of age (HR: 0.92, n=232).  
With respect to age, no imbalances as regards prognostic factors (see above) were identified 
comparing patients below and above the age of 65.   
Efficacy results - secondary endpoints 
No favourable effects were documented in terms of time to symptomatic progression. The MAH’s 
interpretation is that the questionnaire might capture drug related adverse reactions as well as disease 
related events and that this confounds the assessment. This might be the case and it is not considered 
meaningful to try to further investigate to what extent other sources of possible bias such as 
informative censoring (e.g. “objective” tumour progression prior to symptomatic progression) 
contributed to this lack of demonstrated effects.   
With respect to events of progression, the investigator assessment with a cut-off of 17 October is 
considered mature and the results are reasonably consistent with the independent review results of 
May 2006 and overall survival results. Results in relation to subgroups in analogy with survival data 
were not reported. 
In the nolatrexed vs. doxorubicin trial, no difference in PFS was observed (HR 0.96) and median PFS 
was about 11 weeks.  
Also in patients with HCC, sorafenib is mainly a cytostatic compound.  
It is notable that response rates in the nolatrexed vs. doxorubicin trial (conventionally viewed as 
“cytotoxic” compounds) also were very low, 1 and 3%, respectively.   
Results Supportive trial 
Due to the very low objective response rate, it is hard to draw any conclusions as regards covariates of 
importance for sorafenib activity. TTP (and OS) data may be used in historical comparisons, but 
without a randomised control, covariates of importance for prognosis cannot be disentangled from 
those predictive for sorafenib activity. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
As of May, 2007, over 10,000 patients have been treated with sorafenib (as a single agent and in 
combination with commonly used chemotherapy agents) in clinical trials. 
In Study 100554, 599 patients received at least one dose of study medication, at 400 mg bid. The mean 
duration of treatment for the placebo group was 22.6 weeks (158 days) and 25.3 weeks (177 days) for 
the sorafenib patients. 
In Study 10874, the median duration of treatment was 21.3 weeks and 30% of HCC patients received 
more than 24 weeks of study treatment. 
This report will focus mainly on the pivotal HCC study 100554. 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of HCC Patients Exposed Categorized by Dose and Duration in Studies 100554 and 10874  
Adverse events 
Overview of Adverse Events in Studies 100554 and 10874 
18
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events regarded as treatment related - within brackets events occurring with a higher frequency 
(+1%) in the sorafenib arm   
Adverse Event 
Any event 
Anaemia 
GI disorders (diarrhoea, nausea, pain, vomiting) 
General disorders (fatigue, asthenia, pyrexia) 
Weight decreased 
Metabolism and nutrition (anorexia, decreased appetite, dehydration) 16 
11 
Musculoskeletal (spasm, pain in extremity) 
14 
Nervous system (headache, dysgeusia, dizziness) 
13 
Respiratory (dysphonia, epstaxis, dyspnea, laryngeal pain) 
46 
Skin (PPE, rash, pruritus, alopecia, dry skin, etc.)  
9 
Vascular (hypertension, flushing) 
Sorafenib %  Placebo %
80  
3.4 
56 
26 
9 
52 
1.7 
28 
18 
1 
5 
5 
9 
4 
24 
3 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths  
In Study 100554, there were 165 patient deaths within 30 days of receiving study medication, 97 
(32%) in the placebo arm and 68 (23%) in the sorafenib-treated arm. The cause of death was reported 
as HCC progression in 68 placebo patients and 55 sorafenib treated patients.  
In the sorafenib patients 13 deaths were not attributed to disease progression including: bleeding 
oesophageal varices (4 patients), haemorrhage into the abdominal cavity (1 patient) and one patient 
each with liver dysfunction, anorexia, right ventricular failure, visceral arterial ischemia, depression 
(leading to suicide), renal failure, myocardial infarction and unknown. 
Drug-related deaths were reported in 6 (2%) of the placebo patients and 4 (1.3%) of the sorafenib-
treated patients and the causes of deaths in the sorafenib-treated group were: bleeding oesophageal 
varices (1), haemorrhage into abdominal cavity (1), visceral arterial ischemia (1) and renal failure of 
pre-renal origin (1) following dehydration. 
Serious adverse events  
In addition to SAE:s mentioned above, more (≥0.5%) cases in the sorafenib arm were reported for 
myocardial infarction (1.3%, listed), anaemia (2.4%, listed), hepatic failure (3%, not listed, to be 
discussed later) and anorexia (1%, listed). More cases in the placebo arm were reported for fatigue 
(2.6%), physical deterioration (1.7%). No additional signals were identified among SAEs reported as 
related. 
Discontinuation/Interruption from Study due to Adverse Events  
The rate of discontinuation of study drug due to adverse events was similar in the two treatment arms 
(35.4% for placebo and 31.6% for sorafenib patients). There were no age or gender-related differences 
in the rate of premature termination due to adverse events.  
Study drug was temporarily interrupted in 101 (33.3%) placebo patients and in 154 (51.5%) sorafenib 
patients.  
The most frequent adverse events resulting in permanent discontinuation of study drug in the sorafenib 
group were fatigue and liver dysfunction/failure in 14 (4.7%) patients each.  
In the placebo group the most frequent causes for permanent discontinuation were hepatobiliary events 
in 13 (4.3%) and constitutional symptoms in 9 (3.0%) patients. 
19
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypertension/Cardiovascular Events 
First appearance of diastolic blood pressure increases over 100 mm generally occurred within the first 
3 cycles for both treatment groups. The majority of the first onset of systolic blood pressure increases 
over 160 mmHg occurred within the first 3 cycles in both treatment groups. 
Summary of incidence of increased blood pressure from baseline 
Hypertension led to permanent discontinuation of study drug in one sorafenib patient vs. two on 
placebo.  
Six placebo patients reported CNS ischemic events (3 Grade 3, 2 Grade 4, and 1 Grade 5). None of 
the sorafenib patients suffered any CNS ischemic event. 
Cardiac ischemia/infarction was reported as an adverse event in 4 patients in the placebo group and 
8 patients in the sorafenib group. All of these events were reported as serious adverse events; most 
were Grade 3 or 4 events: 3 placebo patients and 6 in the sorafenib group. Of the events occurring in 
the sorafenib group, one Grade 3 event and one Grade 4 event were assessed as drug-related. In 3 
sorafenib patients, myocardial ischemic events were the reason for permanent discontinuation of study 
treatment. (Myocardial ischemia and infarction are listed.) 
Hepatobiliary Events 
Overall 34 liver dysfunction/failure adverse events were reported in sorafenib patients, thereof 21 as 
serious adverse events and 1 was assessed as related to study drug.  
None of the 23 liver dysfunction/failure adverse events, of which 14 were reported as serious adverse 
events, in the placebo group were deemed drug-related. The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 liver 
dysfunction adverse events was similar between groups, reported in 9 placebo patients and 10 
sorafenib patients.  
Liver dysfunction led to permanent discontinuation of treatment in 14 sorafenib patients and 5 placebo 
patients, and to dose reductions in 3 (1.0%) sorafenib patients and 1 (0.3%) placebo patient.  
Laboratory Abnormalities Reported as Adverse Events 
Hypophosphatemia (listed) was observed with increased frequency in patients treated with sorafenib: 
overall 96 (34.9%) sorafenib-treated patients as compared with 30 (11.2%) placebo patients. Grade 2 
occurred in 67 sorafenib patients compared to 23 placebo patients and Grade 3 occurred in 29 
sorafenib patients compared to 6 placebo patients. There were no occurrences of Grade 4 events.  
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 10874 
In Study 10874, almost all treated patients (97%) had one or more adverse events during the study and 
85% had drug-related adverse events.  At least one serious adverse event was recorded in 77 (56%) 
patients and 18 (13%) had drug-related serious adverse events.  Twenty-eight patients (20%) 
discontinued study treatment due to adverse events.  These results were consistent with those seen in 
Study 100554. 
In Study 10874, there were 93 (68%) deaths within 30 days of receiving study medication.  Most 
patients died as a result of progressive disease; no death was reported by the investigator as related to 
study drug.  
Adverse Effects by Population Subgroups 
Women had a reported higher incidence of pain (28.2% versus 8.5%), alopecia (38.5% vs. 10.5%) and 
hand-foot skin reaction (33.3% vs. 19.4%). 
The baseline AST and ALT were used to assess for hepatic impairment.  Patients with a baseline AST 
and ALT of <1.8X the upper limit of normal (ULN) were considered to have normal hepatic function.  
Those with an AST or ALT greater than 3X ULN were considered to have moderate hepatic 
impairment.  For the selected adverse events, no major differences between hepatic impairment groups 
were noted for diarrhea, anorexia, hand-foot skin reaction, alopecia or abdominal pain (NOS) 
In Study 100554, a higher percentage of Child-Pugh A patients compared to the Child-Pugh B patients 
had diarrhea (56% vs. 42.9%, respectively), anorexia (29.1% vs. 21.4%, respectively) and hand-foot 
skin reaction (22.0% vs. 7.1%, respectively).  A higher percentage of Child-Pugh B patients compared 
to the Child-Pugh A patients had voice changes (21.4% vs. 8.5%, respectively) and hypertension 
(14.3% vs. 9.2%, respectively). 
Pharmacovigilance  
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the MAH fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Summary of Activities for each safety concern for Nexavar (sorafenib) (version number 6.0) 
NEXAVAR: SUMMARY OF THE EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
------------------------------ 
Dermatological 
toxicities 
Important Identified Risks 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
• 
In cases of Steven-Johnson or Lyell 
syndrome, a questionnaire to direct data 
collection on SAE’s reported will be used 
to ensure adequate documentation.  
Hypertension and 
RPLS 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
including additional clinical AE and 
laboratory data  
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
-------------------------------------------------- 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
that dermatological side effects occur 
generally during the first 6 months of 
treatment with Nexavar.  
•  Listed as ADRs in Section 4.8 of the 
SPC.  
•  Provision of information on symptom 
management to prescribers. 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC 
advising regular monitoring of 
blood pressure. Therapy should be 
terminated in cases of persistent 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
•  A questionnaire to direct data collection 
on SAE’s reported as hypertensive crisis 
or RPLS. 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
• 
hypertension, or hypertensive crisis.  
Listed as ADRs in section 4.8 of the 
SPC. 
Hemorrhage 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities 
• 
ditional clinical AE data 
including ad
collection.  
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
•  Use of SAE follow up que
stionnai
optimize data collection. 
In the Phase 3 NSCLC trials, case record 
e 
forms collect histological sub
ous- vs. adeno-
tumor (squam
carcinomas). 
type of th
res to 
• 
Arterial thrombosis 
(Myocardial Infarction) 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
including additional clinical AE data
in Bayer 
collection through patients 
sponsored clinical studies. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
Specific SAE follow up questionnai es 
for myocardial infarction events. 
r
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC
on an increased risk of bleeding. 
Permanent termination should be
considered if remedial me
intervention is required. 
Listed 
SPC.  
as ADR in section 4.8 of the 
dical 
• 
•  Development Core Safety 
Information: Observation of  a 
higher bleeding rate from cerebral 
metastases in malignant melanoma.
SPC 
•  Warning in section 4.4 of the 
that the incidence of cardiac 
ischemic events was higher for the 
placebo in 
Sorafenib groups versus 
2 double blind studies.  
Temporary or permanent 
discontinuation when cardia
ischemia and/or infarction. 
Cardiac ischemia and/or infarction 
n 4.8 of 
are listed as ADR in sectio
the SPC. 
• 
• 
c 
pase, 
Increases in li
amylase and 
symptomatic 
pancreatitis 
(Symptomatic 
pancreatitis is an 
Important Potential Ri
but is covered in thi
s 
r ease of 
section fo
review). 
sk, 
Hypophosphatemia 
----------------------- 
Symptomatic 
pancreatitis 
Arterial thr
(Cerebral  
ischemia) 
ombosis 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
including additional clinica
laboratory data collection. 
l AE and 
• 
Listed as ADRs in section 4.8 of th
SPC and data described in section 
4.8 on laboratory test abnormalities. 
e 
es 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
•  Key Bayer sponsored clinical studi
 collect lipase and 
will continue to
amylase data. 
SAE questionnaires to collect data for 
e and 
SAE reports of significant lipas
ases and clinical 
amylase incre
pancreatitis. 
• 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activiti
• 
Study 12345 – a Phase 1 study: 
Mechanistic evaluations on sorafenib 
in
duced hypophosphatemia in pati
es 
ents. 
• 
Listed 
SPC. 
as ADR in section 4.8 of the 
Important Potential Risks 
----------------
----------------------- 
(see Increases in lipase, amylase a
symptomatic pancreatitis above) 
Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
nd 
dditional clinical AE data 
 including a
collection  
No activities. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
Specific SAE follow up questionnaires 
on cerebrovascular ischemic events. 
Squamous cell cancer 
of the skin (SCC) and 
keratoananthoma 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
• 
SAE questionnaires will be used to 
•  Keratoacanthoma/ squamous cell 
carcinoma of the skin added as an
ADRs in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
(KA) 
Congestive heart 
failure 
Wound healing 
complications 
GI perforation 
Pregnancy and 
lactation 
collect data for SAE reports of KA a
SCC, inclu
ding central histological 
analysis. 
nd 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activity 
• 
Clinical studies containing serial  
MUGA scans 
and E2805). 
(Studies 100565, 12345 
R
outine Pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activity 
•  Additional clinical AE data c
ollec
cases of unplanned surgery. 
SAE reports of surgical in
impaired wound healing. 
• 
tervention
s for 
tion in 
•  When company sponsored adjuvant or 
d, 
neo adjuvant clinical trials are planne
appropriate data collection 
effects on wound healing  
Additional pharmacovigilance activity 
•  All reports of pregnancy or congenital 
l 
anomalies occurring on Sorafenib wil be 
recorded and followed-up carefully. 
for any 
• 
Congestive heart failure listed as
ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
•  Warning and Precautions Section 
4.4 of the SPC states that limited 
clinical experience is available in 
cases of major surgical intervention.
Temporary interruption of Nexavar 
therapy if major surgical procedures. 
ted 
•  Gastrointestinal perforation is lis
DR in section 4.8 of the 
• 
as an A
SPC. 
•  Warnings and Precautions Section 
in 
4.6 of the SPC: Contraindicated 
case of  breast feeding. Women 
contraception 
must use effective 
during treatment.  
Bayer sponsored study protocols 
clearly state the requirement for 
ate 
pregnancy testing and adequ
contraception during study. 
• 
------------------------------ 
Safety in children 
• 
Important missing informati
on 
------------------------------------------------
-- 
The safety and effectiveness of 
Sorafenib in pediatric patients have no
 I 
yet been studied. A paediatric phase
study run by the CTEP Children’s 
Oncology Group
– A) is ongoing 
 (Protocol ADVL-0413 
• 
t 
Section 4.2 of the SPC states that 
r 
sorafenib is not recommended fo
use in children and adolescents. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
D
iscussion on Clinical safety
In general, the findings in the pivotal HCC study reflect the findings in the renal cell cancer (RCC) 
study submitted as part of the initial Marketing Authorisation Application, but clearly more events of 
weight decrease were reported in the current submission. To what extent weight decrease reflects loss 
lower incidence of rash, etc might 
in lean body mass or effects on oedema, ascites, etc is unclear. The 
reflect the fact the fewer women were included in the HCC study.  
In the safety summary, events were also reported in relation to duration of therapy, essentially 
confirming what would b
p
atient treated for long.  
e expected, and eg that weight loss and alopecia tend to be more common in 
As regards hand-foot skin reactions it is noticed that 0/33 treated for 6 weeks or less reported this 
reaction and 8/56 of those treated 6 – 12 weeks while those treated for a longer period of time reported 
this reaction about twice as frequently per treatment cycle (6 w). This probably partly reflects delayed 
23
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
onset but also that skin reactions is a weak marker of better prognosis. This interpretation is supported 
by data compatible with a modest increase (+4%) from cycle 1 to 2 in all patients treated and an event 
rate of 14% in cycle 1 (40/297, compared with 0/33 for those treated only for 6 weeks).  
In this context it is noticed that skin reactions were reported in 28% (24/123) of patients below 65
as 
years of age as opposed to 17% (29/174) of the elderly patients. The survival HR, however, w
ourable in elderly patients, illustrating the complexity of the “skin – tumour 
clearly more fav
lationship”.   
re
The opposite was the case for hypertension with more events (also taking placebo into account) 
reported among elderly patients, i.e. “confirming”
ypertension being a weak prognostic factor.  
h
 the findings in the RCC study compatible with 
Diarrhoea was reported as a serious AE in 5% of sorafenib treated patients vs. 2% in the placebo 
group and dehydration in 3% vs. 0.3%, while the oppos
(with ref. to dehydration and renal failure, see above).  
G
I haemorrhages were more commonly reported in the placebo group (7 vs. 4%).  
ite was the case for “renal failure” 0 vs. 2% 
There is a signal as regards hepatobiliary even
“
Increase in bilirubin and jaundice” is listed.  
ts, however, not born out in terms of laboratory events. 
P
harmacovigilance 
A risk manage
o
pinion that:  
ment plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
(cid:131)
(cid:131) 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
no additional risk m
information.  
inimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
B
enefit-risk assessment
In Europe hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is an uncommon disorder, but the incidence is expecte
increase, mainly due to an increased number of individuals with chronic hepatitis C. Nexavar 
(s
orafenib) was granted orphan drug designation in the EU for the treatment of HCC on 12 April 2006.  
d to 
Potentially curative therapies include resection, percutaneous ablation and transplantation, but most
patients are diagnosed at a stage when these interventions are no longer an option. In patients with 
advanced disease, doxorubicin has been used for long in clinica
enefit has been associated with doxorubicin-based therapies.  
b
l practice, but until recently no survival 
In a doxorubicin comparative study designed to demonstrate the superiority of the experimental agent 
lly, this 
nolatrexed, however, doxorubicin therapy was shown to provide a survival benefit. Theoretica
could be due to nolatrexed being worse than placebo, especially as no difference in PFS was 
demonstrated. Nolatrexed, however, belongs to a well known class of cytotoxic compounds 
(thymidylate synthase inhibitor) and the adverse event profile appears as expected and seemingly not 
worse than doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 every three weeks. Thus the most likely explanation to the observed 
difference is that doxorubicin therapy also provides a survival benefit to patients with advanced HCC
. 
Between studies comparisons should be undertaken with care, but the apparently shorter survival in 
the doxorubicin vs. nolatrexed s
in
 baseline characteristics.       
tudy compared with the sorafenib study probably reflects differences 
Sorafenib shows high inter- and intra-patient pharmacokinetic variability in exposure with coeffici
of variation around 65% and 45%, respectively. No dose adjustment is warranted in patients with 
moderate liver impairment (Child Pugh B) but there are no data in patients with more severe 
ents 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impairment. An attempt to further characterise the pharmacokinetics of sorafenib was made in a 
population PK analysis, however, the results are considered non-informative.  
Prior studies in patients with renal cell carcinoma have indicated that increased plasma VEGF levels 
are predictive of better response to treatment with sorafenib. In a single arm study in patients with 
HCC, increased tumour pERK expression was shown to predict a favourable course of the disease, bu
n
has made a commitment in this regard and will provide the data in accordance with agreed timelin
t 
o biomarker data are yet available from the confirmatory study supporting this application. The MAH 
es. 
imilarly a rather weak relationship has been demonstrated between anti-tumour activity and on-
S
therapy skin reactions and hypertension in patients with RCC. 
Unfortunately variability in absorption may be the most important factor explaining observed inter- 
and intra-individual variability in exposure. The MAH has made a commitment to further 
explore in 
population PK analyses whether variability in exposure can be explained by definable patient fa
ctors 
as well as the possible relationship between exposure and adverse events (skin reactions, 
hypertension
pre
submitted.   
), reduction in tumour size as a continuous variable and TTP. The prognostic and 
dictive value of biomarkers at baseline and, when appropriate, on therapy will also be analysed and 
Benefit: A clinically meaningful survival benefit (median +3 months, HR 0.70) has been convincingly 
demonstrated (1-sided p-value 0.0006, interim analysis 2, pre-specified 1-sided alpha 0.0077)
Survival data ar
re
demonstrated.  
sponse rate is low, about 2%. Favourable effects on HCC-related symptoms have not been 
e consistent with time to tumour progression data, HR about 0.6. The objective tumour 
. 
Uncertainties: There is an unexplained, apparently reduced activity in patients bel
(H
(HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.66; 1.21).  This has been reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
R 0.92, 95% CI 0.65; 1.32). Similarly the activity appears low in patients with metastatic disease 
ow 65 years of age 
nly few patients with liver impairment Child Pugh class B were enrolled (n=20), but there appears to 
O
be a meaningful treatment effect, again reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC.  
The number of events a
e
fficacy is hard to estimate in patients with less unfavourable prognosis, but survival curves as such 
constitute no concern. 
fter the median is rather small in the submitted survival analysis. Therefore the 
ded by cross-over. The apparently reduced activity in patients with metastatic disease and in 
The MAH has made a commitment to provide updated survival data analysed at a point in time not too 
confoun
p
data.    
atients below 65 years of age will be further investigated taking into account biomarker data and TTP 
Risk: Sorafenib has a reasonably well-characterized tolerability and toxicity profile dominated by 
diarrhoea, skin reactions and hypertension. Potentially life-threateni
ng adverse reactions have been 
id
entified including myocardial infarction and posterior leukoencephalopathy, but the incidence is 
considered within acceptable limits from an oncology perspective. 
afety data as such constitute no concern, but the experience is limited. Only one individual with C 
umber of patients with Child Pugh B status treated with sorafenib is only 14. 
Uncertainties: The n
S
status was treated.  
There is a signal compatible with an increased incidence of liver failure in patients treated wi
th 
s
orafenib. “Increase in bilirubin and jaundice” is listed, but the MAH has nevertheless made a 
commitment to review study data from all randomised studies in order to address this issue. 
Balance: The benefit/risk balance is undoubtedly favourable and there are no outstanding issues wh
must be resolved prior to licensure of this new
 indication. The CHMP therefore considered that 
ich 
25
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
outstanding issues should be handled as follow-up measures, not least as biomarker data might be 
informative and are currently non-available.  
The CHMP agreed on the following wor
ding of the indication in section 4.1 of the SPC: 
“
N
Hepatocellular carcinoma
exavar is indicated for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (see section 5.1).” 
IV.  CONCLUSION 
-  On 20 Se
ptember 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed 
on  the  amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package 
Leaflet. 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
