1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC), also- called renal adenocarcinoma, is a form of kidney cancer that arises 
from the cells of the renal tubule. RCC accounts for 90-95% of tumours arising from the kidney, and 
represents approximately 2% of all adult malignant tumours [1]. Over the past five years decades, the 
number  of  individuals  diagnosed  with  RCC  has  dramatically[1]  increased:  it  is  estimated  that  the 
prevalence  in  the  US  has  risen  by  126%  in  this  period  [2].  Several  factors  may  explain  the  rise 
including  significant  improvements  in  diagnosing  due  CT  and  MRI,  but  also  additional  factors  like 
smoking, hypertension, obesity and diet have contributed to the rising incidence of RCC [3]. The male 
to female ratio is 1.5:1 [4]. 
RCC is the sixth leading cause of cancer death [5] and is responsible for an estimated 95,000 deaths 
worldwide  [6].  In  the  past  30  years,  prognosis  for  RCC  appears  to  have  improved.  The  American 
Society of Cancer Surveillance Research showed an increase in the 5-year survival rates from kidney 
cancer in the period 1992–1999 (63%) compared with 1974–1976 (52%) and 1983–1985 (56%) [7]. 
However there is a marked difference in outcome between early and advanced RCC. Advanced RCC 
is defined as metastatic, locally advanced and/or unresectable RCC. A median survival time of 6-12 
months and a 2-year survival rate of 10-2-% have been estimated for patients with metastatic RCC [8]. 
Approximately 25% of patients have metastatic disease when RCC is first diagnosed and this number 
rises to 33% when those who develop metastatic spread throughout the course of the disease are also 
considered [8]. 
The  main  histological  subtypes  of  RCC  are  clear  cell,  chromophilic,  chromophobic,  oncocytic, 
collecting duct carcinomas and unclassified. Clear cell Carcinoma is the most common form of renal 
tumour, and accounts for 70-80% of all cases of RCC [9]. 
Treatment of advanced RCC 
The management of a patient with RCC is determined by the stage of the disease. Due to the proposed 
indication only the treatment of patients with advanced real cell carcinoma is described. In the last 25 
years, the overall prognosis for patients with metastatic RCC (mRCC) has not appreciably improved. 
RCC is highly resistant to systemic therapies, including chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Although 
RCC  tumours  express  receptors  for  estrogen,  progesterone  and  testosterone,  hormone  therapy  is  not 
considered  sufficiently  effective  [10].  A  large  meta-analysis  (over  50  trials)  revealed  on  average  an 
overall objective response rate of 5.5% for chemotherapy in mRCC patients [11]. 
Cytokine therapy is considered a modestly effective systemic treatment of RCC that may be limited by 
drug-related  adverse  events.  An  overview  from  multiple  clinical  trials  with  IFN  revealed  a  response 
rate of 12-15% for IFN [12]. A metaanalysis of 4 randomized trials provided evidence for a reduced 
one-year mortality (hazard ratio 0.56) with IFN treatment [12]. However, in patients with intermediate 
risk,  this  has  been  challenged  by  recent  data  indicating  no  difference  in  progression-free  survival 
(PFS)  and  overall  survival  (OS)  between  IFN  or  IL-2  treatment  compared  to  a  control  with 
medroxyprogesterone acetate (Negrier et al, 2005).  
Interleukin-2  (IL-2)  has  been  extensively  studied  in  RCC  patients,  showing  widely  varied  response 
rates,  with relatively few complete or durable responses [13]. The toxicity profile of high-dose IL-2 
includes  a  4%  drug-related  death  rate  due  to  a  capillary  leak  syndrome  associated  with  severe 
hypotension, pulmonary edema and renal dysfunction [14]. Low-dose subcutaneous IL-2 appears to be 
less effective as high-dose bolus IL-2 but better tolerable [15]. 
A  recent  randomized  Phase  III  study  evaluating  IFN  versus  low-dose  IL-2  versus  IFN+IL-2  versus 
medroxyprogesterone  acetate  in  RCC  patients  did  not  show  a  difference  in  PFS  or  OS  for  any 
treatment  arm  but  a  less  favorable  quality  of  life  and  safety  profile  for  the  cytokines  [16].  The 
combination  of  immunotherapy  with  chemotherapy,  in  particular  5-FU,  could  not  demonstrate 
unequivocal improvement of the outcome [15].  
1/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  summary  advanced  RCC  remains  incurable  and  is  a  serious,  life-threatening  condition  with  high 
unmet medical need. 
Because current treatment options for patients with advanced RCC are limited, various new treatment 
modalities  are  being  investigated  with  the  aim  of  improving  outcomes.  The  pathophysiology  points 
out that the tumour growth is dependent on multiple factors, including tumour cell proliferation and 
the process of tumour neovascularization. Therefore the understanding of these factors is essential to 
develop a new drug.   
Tumour cell proliferation is stimulated by signaling molecules that activate receptor tyrosine kinases 
(RTKs)  [17,  18]  including  those  for  the  epidermal  growth  factor  (EGFR),  platelet-derived  growth 
factors  (PDGFs),  c-KIT  and  FLT3.  The  binding  of  a  growth  factor  to  its  receptor  activates  the 
receptor’s  tyrosine  kinase  activity.  RAS  subsequently  activates  the  RAF/MEK/ERK  pathway  [19]. 
Activated  ERK  translocates  from  the  cytoplasm  into  the nucleus and modulates gene expression via 
the phosphorylation of transcription factors. Thus, activation of the RAS signaling pathway initiates a 
sequence of events that stimulate cellular growth. Constitutive activation of RAS signaling pathways 
occurs  through  overexpression  or  mutation  of  RTKs,  mutational  activation  of  k-ras,  or  mutational 
activation of downstream effectors of RAS such as b-raf [20]. EGFR is overexpressed in a subset of 
human  lung  cancer.  PDGFs  support  the  development  of  glioblastomas  and  play  a  role  in  chronic 
myeloproliferative cancers.  Flt3 is mutationally activated in acute myelogenous leukaemia and c-Kit 
is activated in gastrointestinal stromal tumours. RAS mutations are present in at least 45% of all colon 
cancer and in greater than 90% of tumours of the exocrine pancreas [21]. Mutated BRAF (V600E) is 
present in a high percentage of melanomas [20]. 
Neovascularization is also a highly regulated process in which the proliferation of vascular endothelial 
cells,  lymphangiogenic  endothelial  cells  and  smooth  muscle  cells  that  support  new  blood  vessels  is 
controlled  by  multiple  growth  factors  that  bind  to  RTKs.  The  growth  factors  involved  in 
neovascularization  include  vascular  endothelial  growth  factors  (VEGFs),  basic  fibroblast  growth 
factor (bFGF), and platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs). In addition, PDGFs also support vessel 
stabilization  through  the  recruitment  and  maturation  of  pericytes  [22].  Moreover,  bFGF  and  VEGF 
differentially activate RAF, resulting in endothelial cell protection from apoptosis [23, 24] in addition 
to stimulation of proliferation [25, 26], providing conditions conducive to neovascularization.  
Therefore, activation of RTK signaling pathways is an important mechanism by which the majority of 
human  tumours  are  stimulated  to  proliferate,  and  by  which  tumour  associated  neovascularization  is 
initiated and stabilized.  
About the product 
Nexavar  contains  sorafenib,  an  antineoplastic  agent  that  acts  as  protein  kinase  inhibitor  (ATC  code: 
L01XE05).  Sorafenib  inhibits  tumour  cell  proliferation  and  the  tumour  vascularisation  through 
activating the receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) signalling RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK cascade pathway.  
The  acronyms  used  during  the  development  of  the  medicinal  product  were  sorafenib  (INN,  USAN, 
JAN of the free base) coded BAY 43-9006, sorafenib tosylate (INN, USAN for the tosylate salt) coded 
BAY 54-9085, sorafenib tosilate (JAN for the tosylate salt).  
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Nexavar  is  presented  as  film  coated  tablets  containing  274 mg  of  sorafenib  tosylate,  which 
corresponds  to  200 mg  of  sorafenib,  as  active  substance.  Other  ingredients  are  microcrystalline 
cellulose,  croscarmellose,  hypromellose,  sodium  laurilsulfate,  magnesium  stearate,  water,  titanium 
dioxide and red ferric oxide (as colorants). 
The capsules are packed in polypropylene (PP) blister and sealed with aluminium foil. 
2/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Active Substance  
Sorafenib tosylate is a white to yellowish or brownish solid substance practically insoluble in water, 
slightly soluble in alcohols and soluble in DMSO and DMF. Sorafenib tosylate chemical name is 4-
{4-[3-(4-Chloro-3-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)ureido]phenoxy}pyridine-2-carboxylic acid methylamide 4-
methylbenzenesulfonate.  The  active  substance  exhibits  polymorphism  and  it  crystallizes  in  three 
different  modifications  (Mod  I, Mod II and Mod III). It is a non-chiral molecule with the following 
structure: 
CF3
Cl
O
N
H
N
H
O
O
N
NHMe
Me
SO3H
(TsOH)
The  route  of  synthesis  and  data  from  structural  analysis  (IR,  Raman,  UV-VIS,  1H-NMR,  13C-NMR, 
MS,  elementary  analysis,  X-ray  structural  analysis  data)  all  support  the  above  structure  of sorafenib 
tosylate. 
•  Manufacture 
Sorafenib tosylate is synthesised in six steps. The manufacture involves the synthesis of a key isolated 
intermediate, which is synthesized via three reaction steps, from the starting material.  The next two 
steps involve the formation of sorafenib followed by the salt formation and crystallisation, resulting in 
sorafenib tosylate. The final step involves micronization in an air-jet mill.  
The active substance is visually tested for appearance and its identity is confirmed by NIR and HPLC, 
and the desired modification of sorafenib tosylate (Mod I) is confirmed by Raman spectroscopy. 
Batch analysis data on sorafenib tosylate micronized produced from both routes of synthesis showed 
that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly. 
•  Specification 
The  specifications  for  sorafenib  tosylate  micronized  and  sorafenib  tosylate  N  micronized  include 
appearance  (visual  test),  identity  of  sorafenib  tosylate  (HPLC  and  NIR),  identity  of  modification  I 
(Raman  spectroscopy),  water  content  (Karl  Fisher),  particle  size  distribution  (laser  diffraction 
method), heavy metals, assay on dried active substance (HPLC), related substances (HPLC and GC) 
and microbial purity. 
Sorafenib  tosylate  is  controlled  by  well-described  analytical  methods,  which  have  been  validated 
according  to  the  ICH  guidelines. The inorganic impurities are controlled by limits for sulphated ash 
and heavy metal. The residual solvents used in the last synthesis and purification steps are controlled 
in the final active substance and the specifications are within the ICH guideline on residual solvents. 
•  Stability 
Sorafenib  tosylate  is  a  stable  substance  and  no  sign  of  degradation  is  observed  after  24 months  of 
storage under ICH long term or accelerated conditions (12 months). The active substance was found to 
be  resistant  to  heat,  oxidation  and  hydrolysis.  ICH  light  stability  studies  have  been  performed  on 
sorafenib tosylate in the solid state and it was concluded to be stable. When dissolved in methanol it 
was shown to be slightly sensitive to light. Stability data was provided on three pilot scale batches of 
sorafenib  tosylate  micronized  packaged  in  polyamide/polyethylene  (PA/PE)  bags,  whereas sorafenib 
tosylate N micronized stability data was provided on batches packaged in polypropylene (PP) bags.  
The  stability  results  justified  the  proposed  re-test  period  for  both  sorafenib  tosylate  and  sorafenib 
tosylate N. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Sorafenib  tosylate  tablets  represent  an  immediate-release  formulation  for  oral  use  packaged  in 
transparent polypropylene/aluminium blisters.  
3/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the very low solubility of sorafenib in aqueous media, the tosylate salt was used in the drug 
product.  To  enhance  dissolution  the  active  substance  is  micronized  and  the  particle  size  is  tightly 
controlled.    The  permeability  of  sorafenib  tosylate  using  the  Caco-2  cell  model  indicates  that  it  is  a 
‘high permeability’ compound.   
The excipients used in the manufacture of Nexavar are all commonly used in this type of formulation. 
For  the  tablet  core,  microcrystalline  cellulose  is  used  as  filler,  croscarmellose  as  disintegrant, 
hypromellose as binder, sodium lauryl sulfate as wetting agent and magnesium stearate is utilised as 
lubricant.  The  film-coat  is  composed  of  hypromellose  as  the  film-forming  agent  and  macrogol  as  a 
plasticizer. Water is used as suspending liquid, and titanium dioxide and red ferric oxide as colorants. 
All  excipients  comply  with  PhEur  monographs,  except  ferric  oxide,  which  complies  with  Directive 
94/45  EC  regarding  colorants  in  food.  No  materials  of  human  or  animal  origin  are  used  in  the 
synthesis of the drug substance or in the manufacture of the drug product. 
The objective of the pharmaceutical development has been to obtain a small immediate release tablet 
with a high amount of active substance. Sorafenib tosylate exhibited good compression characteristics 
and therefore a high content of drug could be used in the formulation. A wet granulation process with 
water  as  granulating  liquid  was  found  to  be  suitable.  The  content  of  magnesium  stearate  in  the 
debossed  tablet  was  adjusted  to  avoid  sticking  to  the  tabletting  tools.  The  tablets  are  film  coated  to 
facilitate swallowing and to add colour.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of the finished product involves conventional processes including (1) mixing, (2) wet 
high-shear  granulation,  (3)  wet  sizing,  (4)  drying  of  granulate,  (5)  tablet  compression  and  (6)  film-
coating. During process development and scale-up, the impact of manufacturing conditions on target 
properties  of  the  final  dosage  form,  such  as  tablet  hardness,  disintegration,  dissolution  and  stability 
were investigated. The dissolution rate was determined to be a critical property of the product and to 
be affected by several manufacturing conditions. The potential for polymorphism was investigated by 
Raman spectroscopy and found to be unchanged. 
The in-process controls were found to be adequate to the manufacture of the film-coated tablets.  
The manufacturing process has been validated using three batches of the intended standard batch size. 
Evaluation of the batches was based on manufacturing process parameters and in-process control data. 
All  validation  batches  complied  with  the  release  specifications.  Batch  analysis  data  provided  shows 
that the film-coated tablets can be manufactured with suitable quality according to the finished product 
specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specifications include tests for appearance (visual method), identity (HPLC and TLC or 
NIR),  dissolution  (PhEur),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (PhEur),  unspecified  degradation  products 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC) and microbial purity (PhEur).  
No specified impurities are part of the finished product specification. This is acceptable since these are 
controlled in the drug substance and they have been found not to increase upon storage.  The finished 
product shelf-life specifications are the same as the release specifications, exception being the water 
content. The specifications are considered acceptable and justified. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies were carried out according to the ICH guideline on stability. Long-term stability data 
was  generated  on  three pilot scale batches at storage conditions of 25oC/60%RH and 30oC/70%RH 
for 30 months. Data demonstrates that the product is stable under climate zone I/II conditions. Long-
term and accelerated conditions stability data was also provided for commercial scale batches. Stress 
testing data was provided covering thermal and hydrolytic stress, which confirmed that high humidity 
can  influence  the  properties  of  the  finished  product.  Bulk  stability  data  was  also  provided  for  one 
batch at 25oC/60%RH and was found to be satisfactory.  
Photostability  studies  performed  according  to  the  ICH  guideline  showed  that the finished product is 
not light sensitive.  
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
SPC are acceptable.  
4/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
The  pharmacology  of  sorafenib  was  investigated  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  All  pivotal  toxicology  studies 
were conducted according to the GLP standards, as claimed by the applicant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The biological activity (IC50 values) of sorafenib was tested in biochemical assays against a selected 
panel  of  purified  serine/threonine  kinases  and  receptor  tyrosine  kinases.  Sorafenib  was  active  in 
biochemical assays against all kinases listed in Table X. Sorafenib was also tested in cellular assays 
(using 0.1% BSA) measuring the inhibition of the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in human breast cancer 
cell  line  MDA-MB-231,  the  VEGFR-2  receptor  autophosphorylation  in  NIH  3T3  cells  expressing 
human  VEGFR-2  receptor,  and  PDGF-dependent  proliferation  of  human  aortic  smooth  muscle  cells 
(HAoSMC). The IC50 data is summarized in Table 1. 
Table 1 - Summary of the in vitro profile of sorafenib  
Biochemical Assay a 
CRAF b 
BRAF  wild-type 
BRAF V600E mutant 
VEGFR2 
mVEGFR2 
mVEGFR3 
mPDGFR-β 
Flt3 
c-KIT 
FGFR1 
Cellular Mechanism c 
MDA MB 231 MEK phosphorylation (Human Breast) 
MDA MB 231 ERK phosphorylation (Human Breast) 
BxPC-3 ERK phosphorylation (Human Pancreatic) 
LOX ERK phosphorylation (Human Melanoma) 
VEGFR-2 receptor phosphorylation (Human, 3T3 cells)d 
VEGF-stimulated ERK phosphorylation (HUVECs)e 
BFGF-stimulated ERK phosphorylation (HUVECs) 
MVEGFR-3 receptor phosphorylation (Mouse, 293 cells) 
PDGFR-β phosphorylation (HAoSMC)f 
Flt-3 receptor phosphorylation (Human ITD, 293 cells) 
Cellular Proliferation 
MDA MB 231 (10% FCS) g 
PDGFR-β-stimulated  HAoSMC f (0.1%  BSA) h 
IC50 (nM) 
6 
22 
38 
90 
15 
20 
57 
58 
68 
580 
IC50 (nM) 
40 
90 
1200 
880 
30 
60 
620 
100 
80 
20 
IC50 (nM) 
2600 
220 
5/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
A:    Recombinant  enzyme  assay;  b:  Raf  kinase  activated  with  Lck  (full  length CRAF) ; c:  Mechanistic cellular assays all 
performed  in  0.1%  BSA  ;  d:  Western  blot  assay  format  with  Phospho-VEGFR-2  antibody;  e:  Human  umbilical  vein 
endothelial cells ; f:  Human aortic smooth muscle cells; g: Fetal calf serum; h: Bovine serum albumin. 
Sorafenib was a potent inhibitor of CRAF and wild-type and mutant (V600E) BRAF with inhibitory 
concentration (IC50s) of 6 nM, 22 nM and 38 nM, respectively. Sorafenib was also a potent inhibitor 
of  several  RTKs  linked  to  tumour  progression,  including  Flt-3,  c-Kit,  VEGFR2,  VEGFR3,  and 
PDGFR-ß.  Sorafenib did not inhibit MEK-1, ERK-1, EGFR, HER2/NEU, c-MET, PKA, PKB, IGFR-
1, Cdk-1/cyclin B, PIM-1, GSK 3-b, CK-2, PKC-α, PKC-β, or PKC-γ at concentrations up to 10 µM. 
The in vivo anti-tumour efficacy of sorafenib, administered as a single daily oral treatment, has been 
studied against non-renal tumour xenograft models using athymic mice. In each model, sorafenib was 
administered  p.o.  once  a  day  for  9  days  starting  when  all  animals  in  an  experiment  had  established 
tumours (tumour weight of approximately 100 mg). All doses are expressed as free base equivalents 
irrespective  of  the  form  of  compound  administered  (free  base or the tosylate salt). The tumour cells 
were implanted sc into the flank region of female athymic mice (NCr-nu/nu). Sorafenib demonstrates 
anti-tumour efficacy as a single agent against a broad range of human tumour xenografts including the 
HCT-116 (64%TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base), DLD-1 (66%TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base), Colo-
205 (66% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base), and HT-29 colon tumours (21) (71% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose 
free  base),  the  NCI-H460  (56%  TGI  at  30mg/kg/dose  free  base),  and  A549b  (60%  TGI  at 
30mg/kg/dose free base) NSCLC, the MDA-MB-231 (92% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base) and MX-1 
(51% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base) mammary tumours, the MiaPaCa-2 pancreatic tumour 
(66% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base), the MV4; 11 AML (84% TGI at 3mg/kg/dose free base), LOX 
IMVI melanoma (52% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose free base), and the SK-OV-3 (64% TGI at 30mg/kg/dose 
free  base)  ovarian  tumour.  The  percent  tumour  growth  inhibition  (TGI)  calculated  as  (1-T/C)*100, 
where T and C represent the mean size of the treated (T) and control (C) tumours on the day after the 
last dose of sorafenib in each experiment.  
Sorafenib  exhibited  anti-tumour  efficacy  against  tumour  models  that  express  either  mutated  k-ras 
(DLD-1,  Mia-PaCa-2)  or  BRAF  (Colo-205,  HT-29).  Sorafenib  showed  efficacy  against  the  MDA-
MB-231 model that exhibits activating mutations of both genes. Sorafenib was also effective against 
the SK-OV-3 human ovarian tumour line that contains a wild-type ras and BRAF but overexpresses 
both  the  EGF  and  Her2  growth  factor  receptors.  These  receptors  also  signal  through  the 
RAS/RAF/MEK pathway. 
The  anti-tumour  efficacy  of  sorafenib  against  renal  tumour  has  been  studied  using  female  athymic 
mice (NCr-nu/nu). The studied xenograft models were the A498 human renal cell cancer model, the 
CAKI-1 human renal tumour model and the RENCA murine renal cell cancer model. In the RENCA 
model  growth  inhibition  ranging  from  30%  to  84%  was  observed  following  oral  administration  of 
doses  from  7.5  mg/kg/day  to  90  mg/kg/day.  Preliminary  anti-tumour  efficacy  studies  were  also 
conducted  against  the  A498  and  CAKI-1  human  renal  tumour  xenograft  models  in  athymic  mice. 
Growth of CAKI-1 tumours was not significantly (p=0.8074) inhibited by sorafenib at dose levels up 
to 60 mg/kg. 
The mechanism of action of sorafenib was investigated ex vivo in multiple tumour models including 
HT-29,  DLD-1,  HCT-116,  and  Colo-205  colon  tumour  models,  the  MDA-MB-231  breast  tumour 
model,  and  the  Mia-PaCa-2  pancreatic  tumour  model  (21).  In  each  study,  animals  bearing 
approximately  200  mg  size  tumours  were  treated  with  sorafenib  (30-60  mg/kg/dose)  for  5  days. 
Tumours  were  then  collected  3  hours  after  the  final  dose  and  evaluated  for  modulation  of  ERK 
phosphorylation  by  Western  staining  and/or  by  immunohistochemistry  (IHC)  to  assess  the  effect  of 
sorafenib on signaling through the RAF/MREK/ERK pathway. Tumour samples in some models were 
also stained with a goat polyclonal antibody against CD31 and the microvessel density was assessed 
by  image  analysis  to  measure  the  inhibition  of  neovascularization.  An  inhibition  of  the 
RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in HT-29, DLD-1, HCT-116, and MDA-MB-231 tumour models but not in 
Colo-205  or  Mia-PaCa-2  tumours  was  demonstrated.  Analysis  of  the  phosphoprotein  values  in  the 
MDA-MB-231 model showed that RAF/MEK/ERK phosphorylation was reduced along with six other 
proteins  (BTK,  CDK1,  Ekt/BMX,  MAPK1,  p38,  src  and  Zap70  (RMC-01274).  Among  these  the 
CDK1 also had lower levels of phosphorylation in LOX cells in vitro (MRC-01275). In addition, the 
phosphorylation state of one protein, GSK3(cid:31) was significantly upregulated. Anti-angiogenetic effects 
6/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
were  evaluated  in  vivo  in  human  xenograft  models  (RMC-01264).  Mice  with  150-250  mg  HT-29, 
Colo-205 or MDA-MB-231 tumours were treated for 5 days with either vehicle or oral sorafenib at 30 
or 60 mg/kg. Tumours were collected, sectioned, and stained with anti-CD31 antibodies. The results 
demonstrated  that  sorafenib  produced  50%  to  80%  reduction  of  microvessel  area  (MVA)  and 
microvessel density (MVD) in drug-treated relative to vehicle- treated HT-29 and Colo-205 tumours 
despite a lack of RAF/MEK/ERK inhibition in the Colo-205 tumour samples.  
Three  metabolites  (M-2,  M-4,  and  M-5)  were  synthesized  and  characterized  for  their  biochemical 
activities  against  wild-type  CRAF  and  BRAF,  mPDGFR-â,  mVEGFR-2,  and  human  FLT-3.  The 
metabolites  M-2,  M-4  and  M-5  of  sorafenib  potently  inhibited  several  receptor  tyrosine  kinases 
including VEGFR-2 (IC 50 between 7-10nM), PDGFR-β (IC 50 between 14-42nM), and Flt-3 (IC 50 
between 87-170nM).  In cellular assays, these metabolites inhibited the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in 
tumour  cells  and  inhibit  VEGFR-2  and  PDGFR  signalling.  Two  of  the  metabolites,  M-2,  and  M-5  , 
with  IC  50  of  22nM  and  46nM  respectively,  were  more  potent  than  Sorafenib  (IC  50285nM)  at 
inhibiting  PDGF-dependent  human  aortic  smooth  muscle  cell  proliferation.  However,  Sorafenib  (IC 
50: 6nM) was more potent than either M-2 (IC 50: 21nM) or M-5 (IC 50: 18nM) against CRAF. For 
both wild-type and mutant BRAF the IC 50 was higher for M2 and M5 than for Sorafenib. Sorafenib 
(IC  5058nM)  was  also  significantly  more  potent  against  Flt-3  than  M-5  (IC  50:  170nM).  The  three 
metabolites  (M2,  M4,  and  M5)  had  similar  in  vitro  pharmacological  activity  as  sorafenib  but  the 
metabolites were present at much lower plasma levels. The most predominant human metabolite, M-2, 
was also evaluated in vivo for anti-tumour efficacy against the MDA-MB-231 xenograft model. The 
studies indicated that M2 was efficacious when administered orally at a dose level of 120 mg/kg on a 
daily  schedule  against  s.c.  MDA-MB-231  human  mammary  tumour  xenografts  in  athymic  mice. 
Lower  dose  levels  (30  or  60  mg/kg)  of  M2  were  not  efficacious.  M2  was  both  less  potent  and  less 
active than sorafenib. A dose level of 120 mg/kg  of M2 produced less growth inhibition (63%-68% 
TGI)  than  administration  of  30mg/kg  sorafenib  by  the  same  route  and  schedule  of  administration 
(80%-91%  TGI).  However,  the  degree  to  which  M-2  contributes  to  the  anti-tumour  efficacy  of 
sorafenib was not determined as M-2 is partially converted to sorafenib in vivo.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No studies were conducted to assess the secondary pharmacodynamics of sorafenib.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The safety pharmacology studies were conducted in accordance with ICH S7A and S7B [27].The only 
central nervous system (CNS) related effects observed in male rats were transient tremor in 2 and 3 
out  of  6  animals  treated  with  100  and  300  mg/kg.  No  effects  on  psychomotoric  activity,  body 
temperature,  anti-/or  pro-convulsive  effect,  nociceptive  responsiveness  or  hexobarbiton  induced 
sleeping time were observed. 
For the safety of the cardiovascular and respiratory system transfected CHO cells and Rabbit cardiac 
Purkinje fibers were used in vitro. Sorafenib had no statistically significant effect on hERG current at 
concentrations  up  to  3  µM  even  if  a  tendency  for  inhibition  was  seen.  At  10  µM,  hERG  current 
inhibition  could  not  be  evaluated  due  to  unspecific  effects  subsequent  to  substance  precipitation. 
Measurements  of  the  action  potential  duration indicated a small prolongation of the APD90 , which 
became significant at a concentration of 10µM sorafenib. There was no toxicologically relevant effect 
on  pulmonary  function,  hemodynamics,  cardiac  contractility  and  ECG  in  anesthetized  dogs  after 
single  intraduodenal  sorafenib  tosylate  doses  of  up  to  60  mg/kg  (corresponding  sorafenib  plasma 
Cmax approximately 3 mg/l). A transient decrease in heart rate (mean maximum of 15%) was noted at 
the 60 mg/kg dose but no effect on blood pressure, blood flow, P-wave amplitude, P-Q interval, QRS 
interval and duration of QT interval were observed.  
Potential  effects  on  diuresis,  blood  pharmacological  parameters,  blood  glucose,  and  GI-tract  were 
investigated  in  Wistar-rats  after  single  oral  sorafenib  tosylate  doses  of  30,  100,  or  300  mg/kg 
(corresponding  sorafenib  plasma  Cmax  approximately  3.5,  12,  and  35  mg/L).  There  was  a  dose-
dependent  anti-diuretic  effect  (up  to  -56%)  with  parallel  decrease  in  blood  erythrocyte  counts, 
hematocrit  and  total  hemoglobin  concentration,  and  effects  gaining  statistical  significance  at  220 
mg/kg) at a systemic exposure of about 35 mg/l. No effect on blood coagulation was observed. Blood 
glucose  levels  were  statistically  significant  decreased  (maximum  approximately  -20%  in  top  dose 
7/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
animals) at all dose levels (fed rats) and at 73 mg/kg and 220 mg/kg in fasted animals. Sorafenib had 
no effect on intestinal contractions or relaxation on guinea pig ileum in vitro. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  ability  of  sorafenib  (60  or  30  mg/kg/dose,  p.o.)  to  be  combined  with  paclitaxel,  irinotecan, 
gemcitabine, doxorubicin, gefitinib or cisplatin was evaluated in non-clinical human tumour xenograft 
models.  
Combinations with paclitaxel were evaluated in two mice model systems. In the NCI-H460 model, a 
14-day course of treatment with sorafenib initiated concurrently with a 5-day course of treatment with 
paclitaxel  was  tolerated  and  had  no  adverse  effect  on  the  anti-tumour  efficacy  of  paclitaxel. 
10 mg/kg/dose of paclitaxel or lower was well tolerated in combination with sorafenib regardless of 
the  sequence  of  administration.  An  evaluation  of  the  efficacy  of  the  combination  of  sorafenib 
administered  on  the  q1d  x  14  schedule  with  paclitaxel  administered  on  either  a  q.d.x1  or  q15d  x  2 
schedule was conducted in the MX-1 model. A tumour growth delay (TGD) significantly (p<0.005) 
greater in the combination than those produced by paclitaxel or sorafenib alone was observed.  
Combination  chemotherapy  involving  irinotecan  (40  or  26.8  mg/kg/dose,  i.p)  was  evaluated  in  the 
DLD-1  human  colon  tumour  xenograft  model.  A  multiple  tumour  regression  of  these  agents  was 
observed with concurrent administration in two separate experiments, but not with either single agent 
therapy. 
Combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine (120 and 80 mg/kg/dose, i.p) was investigated using the 
MiaPaCa-2  human  pancreatic  tumour  model.  All  combination  therapies  were  as  well  tolerated  as 
either single agent therapy with no lethality. 
Combination  chemotherapy  with  cisplatin  (5.4  and  3.6  mg/kg/inj,  i.p.  on  a  q4d  x  3  schedule)  was 
investigated using the NCI-H23 human NSCLC tumour model. TGD produced by the combination of 
60 mg/kg sorafenib and 5.4 mg/kg cisplatin (27.5 days) was significantly greater than that produced 
by cisplatin alone (21.4 days) at the same dose level (p<0.04). The TGD of the 5.4mg/kg dose level of 
cisplatin  with  the  lower  dose  of  30  mg/kg  sorafenib  was  not  significantly  different  from  that  of 
cisplatin alone. 
Combination chemotherapy with doxorubicin (6 and 4 mg/kg/inj, i.v.) was investigated using the MX-
1 mammary tumour model. This combination of was not well tolerated, producing significantly greater 
dose  dependent  weight  loss  and  lethality  (4/10  treatment-related  deaths  in  mice  treated  with  the 
combination of the highest dose of each agent). TGD for this combination was 86%, therefore not as 
high in response as it was to doxorubicin treatment alone (129%) at the higher tolerated dose level of 6 
mg/kg. 
Combination chemotherapy with gefitinib (150 and 75 mg/kg/dose, p.o., on a q.d. x 10 schedule) was 
investigated using the A549 human NSCLC tumour model.  
No increased toxicity or decreased efficacy of either agent was observed with this combination. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  sorafenib  administered  as  tosylate  salt  was investigated  in  vivo  in  CD-1  mice, 
Wistar  rats  and  in  Beagle  dogs.  Additionally,  in vitro  studies  were  performed  to  investigate  plasma 
protein  binding, blood cell/plasma partitioning, and drug metabolism in rodents, dogs, monkeys and 
human.   
•  Absorption-Bioavailability  
The  absorption  and  the  basic  pharmacokinetics  following  a  single  dose  of  sorafenib  tosylate  were 
evaluated in female CD-1 mice, male Wistar rats, and female Beagle dogs.  
For the determination of the absorption of sorafenib in rats, bile duct-cannulated rats (n=5/group) were 
used.  Twenty-four  hours  after  surgery  [14C]  sorafenib  tosylate  was  administered  orally  or 
intravenously  to  the  rats  at  a  dose  of  5  mg/kg  sorafenib.  The  absorption  of  sorafenib  was  almost 
complete in female CD-1 mice (78.6%) and male Wistar rats (79.2%). In Beagle dogs the absorption 
(67.6 %, calculated from AUCnorm values after intravenous and oral administration) and the absolute 
bioavailability (59.9 %) were lower than in rodents. 
Maximum plasma concentrations of radioactivity between 1.5 h and 2 h after oral administration were 
observed in all species. After intravenous administration of [14C] sorafenib tosylate to mice, rats, and 
8/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
  
dogs the elimination of the radioactivity from plasma occurred with similar terminal half-lives of 6.8, 
8.8, and 7.3 hours, respectively. The terminal half-lives of radioactivity after oral administration were 
6.1 hours in mice and 5.8 hours in dogs. In rats, terminal half-live after oral administration was longer 
(11.2 h) than after intravenous administration. In rats, the elimination of the unchanged compound was 
slower (t1/2: 9.3 h) than in the mice (t1/2: 6.5 h) and dogs (t1/2:4.3 h). The total plasma clearance in 
rats was 0.044 l/(h·kg) corresponding to a blood clearance of 0.049 l/(h·kg). In mice and dogs the total 
plasma  clearance  was  0.13  and  0.15  l/(h·kg)  respectively.  The  volume  of distribution at steady state 
ranged from 0.65 l/kg to 0.74 l/kg, depending on the species.  
•  Distribution 
The binding of sorafenib to plasma proteins of mice (male), rats (male and female), rabbits (female), 
dogs (female) and humans (male and female) was investigated in vitro by the distribution of sorafenib 
between  diluted  plasma  and  between  solid-supported  lipid  membranes  according  to  the  method  of 
SCHUHMACHER et al [28] . The protein binding was investigated in the concentration range from 
0.1 mg/l to about 10 mg/l for undiluted rat, dog and mouse plasma and in the range from 0.1 mg/l to 
about 5 mg/l in undiluted plasma of human and rabbits. The protein binding was about 99.5% in mice, 
rats and humans, 99.1% in dogs and 98% in rabbits. Human serum albumin, α-, (cid:31)-globulin and the 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) were the main binding proteins (fractions unbound from 1.02 to 3.55 
%). In the blood of rats, dogs, and humans sorafenib was mainly equally distributed between plasma 
and  blood  cells.  The  plasma/blood  concentration  ratio  was  1.12  for  rats,  1.02  for  dogs  and  1.33  for 
humans. The binding of sorafenib was dependent on pH in plasma. The fraction unbound decreased to 
0.165 % at pH 7.99 and increased to 1.80 % at the acidic pH 6.78.  
Qualitative and quantitative distribution patterns were determined in male and female Wistar rats and 
male pigmented Long Evans rats by means of whole-body autoradiography. For the evaluation of the 
qualitative distribution patterns [14C]sorafinib was administered at a single oral dose of 10 mg/kg to 
male and female Wistar rats (one rat per time-point). For the evaluation of the quantitative distribution 
patterns [14C]sorafinib was administered at a single oral dose of 10 mg/kg to male albino Wistar rats 
(3 rats per time-point) and pigmented Long Evans rat (1 rat per time-point).  [14C]sorafenib and/or its 
labeled  metabolites  were  homogeneously  distributed  throughout  the  body,  with  the  exception  of  the 
brain  (maximum  concentration  of  radioactivity  (CEQ  max)  0.391),  seminal  vesicles  (0.363)  and  the 
compact bone (0.155). Maximum radioactivity concentration was mainly reached in most organs and 
tissues up to 4 hours post dosing. Blood/brain penetration was low as indicated by brain uptake less 
than 10 % of blood or plasma exposure. The highest exposure in terms of AUC was found in the liver 
(492mg-eq  h/l).  Similar  exposure  was  observed  in  adrenal  cortex  (369mg-eq  h/l),  Harderian  gland 
(306mg-eq h/l) and kidney outer medulla (285mg-eq h/l) and cortex (263mg-eq h/l). The rank order of 
the  ratio  organ/blood  (heart)  values  were  the  following;  liver  (5.5)  >  adrenal  cortex  (4.3),  adrenal 
gland (3.8), Harderian gland (2.9), pancreas (2.9), kidney outer medulla (2.7) and kidney cortex (2.6). 
Terminal  elimination  of  radioactivity  occurred  rapidly  for  all  organs  and  tissues,  with  half-lives 
mainly between 20 and 36 hours as derived from concentrations up to 7 days. Only the half-life in the 
skin was longer (72.8 hours). 
Whole-body  autoradiography  was  performed  in  pregnant  Wistar  rats  at  the  19th  Day  of  gestation. 
[14C]  sorafenib  and/or  its  radiolabeled  metabolites  penetrated  the  placental  barrier  to  a  moderate 
extent (CEQ max ratio organ/blood: 0.988). The radioactivity was homogeneously distributed to most 
fetal organs and tissues, except fetal brain (CEQ max ratio organ/blood: 0.194) which contained less 
radioactivity.  The  average  exposure  in  the  fetuses  reached  52  %  of  the  exposure  in  maternal  blood. 
After 24 hours, 54.4 % of the dose was present in pregnant rats, mainly in the dam, only 1.8 % of the 
dose  could  be  attributed  to  the  fetuses.  Enrichments  of  radioactivity  in  the  mammary  glands  were 
observed (CEQ max ratio organ/blood: 1.50). 
•  Metabolism 
The  biotransformation  of  sorafenib  has  been  studied  in  rats,  dogs,  and  humans  in  vivo.  The 
biotransformation  of  sorafenib  in  vitro  was  investigated  using  liver  microsomes,  microsomes 
containing  heterologously  expressed  human  cytochromes  or  glucuronosyl  transferases  and  rat  and 
human  hepatocytes.  In  vitro  incubations  of  [14C]  sorafenib  tosylate  with  liver  microsomes  (protein 
concentration 0.5 mg/ml, 90 min) revealed two phase I prominent reactions: hydroxylation of the N-
methyl group  yielding metabolite M-3 and N-oxidation at the pyridine moiety yielding metabolite M-
@EMEA 2006 
9/49 
 
 
 
2. Combination of both pathways led to metabolite M-1 and demethylation of sorafenib led to M-4. 
The  percentage  of  radioactivity  of  M-2  in  incubation  of  16  µM  [14C]  sorafenib  tosylate  with  liver 
microsomes  was  36.4%  in  human,  29.4%  in  rhesus  monkeys,  9.6%  in  rats  and  3.8%  in  dogs.  To 
identify the CYP isoforms involved in the in vitro phase I metabolism of sorafenib, incubations with 
human  liver  microsomes  with/without  CYP  isoform-selective  inhibitors  or  antibodies.  CYP3A4  was 
found  to  be  the  responsible  enzyme  for  phase I  (oxidative  metabolism)  reactions  of  sorafenib. 
Sorafenib glucuronide (M-7) was identified as a minor metabolite in human plasma and was excreted 
into human urine (14.8 % of the dose).  
From  a  panel  of  recombinant  UGT  enzymes  UDP-glucuronosyltransferase  1A9  (UGT1A9)  was 
identified as the main UGT isoform catalyzing conjugation of sorafenib with glucuronic acid to M-7. 
Kinetic  parameters  were  determined  for  UGT1A9  catalyzed  glucuronidation  using  recombinant 
enzyme, human kidney microsomes, and cultured human hepatocytes. High affinity to UGT1A9 was 
demonstrated  by  Km  values  of  5.8  µM,  8.1  µM,  and  3  -  7  µM,  in  the  respective  in  vitro  model. 
Following  incubated  with  cultured  human  hepatocytes  formation  of  M-7  (glucuronidation) 
predominated at lower substrate concentrations, whereas preferentially M-2 (N-oxidation) was formed 
at  higher  concentrations  of  sorafenib.  Intrinsic  clearance  (CLint  =  Vmax/Km)  for  N-oxidation  was 
approximately  2-fold  higher  than  for  glucuronidation.  Kidney  tissue  was  also  capable  of  forming 
glucuronide M-7. 
In vivo, the biotransformation of sorafenib has been studied in mice, rats, dogs and humans. 
Following  a  single  oral  administration,  exposure  to  sorafenib  was  71  -  73  %  of  the  AUC  of  total 
radioactivity in the respective time interval. In contrast to man, in rat and dog plasma M-3 represented 
12.1  %  and  15.6  %  of  the  AUC  of  total  radioactivity  in  plasma.  M-4  was  found  in  plasma  of  all  3 
species. Metabolite M-2 was a main metabolite in human plasma (16.7 % of AUC), but was found in 
small  amounts  in  rat  plasma  (0.9  %  of  AUC)  and  was  absent  in  dog  plasma.  The  glucuronide  of 
sorafenib  (M-7)  was  a  minor  metabolite  in  human  plasma  and  could  not  be  detected  in  rat  and  dog 
plasma. In mice, dosed daily for 3 months, M-2, M-3, M-4 and M-5 exposures after multiple dosing 
were  approximately  7%,  4%,  11%  and  3%,  respectively,  of  the  total  exposure  (sum  of  parent  and 
measured metabolites). 
•  Excretion 
For the determination of absorption, excretion and mass balance of the radioactivity ([14C] sorafenib 
and radiolabeled metabolites) in rats and dogs the compound was administered as an intravenous bolus 
injection  or  as  a  solution  via  gavage  to  fasted  intact  male  Wistar  rats  (5  rats/group)  or  bile  duct-
cannulated  rats  (5  rats/group)  and  as  an  intravenous  bolus  injection  (5.77  mg/kg  equivalent  to  4.21 
mg/kg of sorafenib) or as a solution in a capsule (5.65 mg/kg equivalent to 4.12 mg/kg sorafenib) to 6 
fasted female Beagle dogs (3 dogs/group). After intravenous and oral administration the radioactivity 
was mainly excreted via the biliary/fecal route (90%), urinary excretion was low (<1%). In man, renal 
excretion  of  radioactivity  was  more  pronounced  than  in  rat  and  dog  due  to  species-dependent 
formation of sorafenib glucuronide, which was excreted into human urine. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Warfarin,  propranolol,  nifedipine,  furosemide,  digitoxin,  taxotere,  taxol,  iressa  and  cisplatin  did  not 
influence the binding extent of sorafinib in any concentration tested (3-15mg/l, 1-5mg/l, 1-5mg/l, 0.5-
2.5mg/l, 0.1-0.5mg/l, 3-15mg/l, 2.5-12.5mg/l, 0.5-2.5mg/l, 10-5-mg/l, respectively. Salicylic acid and 
ibuprofen (200 and 50 mg/l) did not alter fraction unbound (control value 0.275 %) whereas at 1000 
and 250 mg/l the fraction unbound increased to 1.50 and 2.70 %, respectively. 
The  potential  of  sorafenib  to  induce  human  CYP1A2  and  3A4  was  investigated  in  cultured  human 
hepatocytes. Cells were exposed with 0.01 to 50 µg/ml sorafenib for five days in comparison to the 
prototypic inducers omeprazole (OME, CYP1A2), rifampicin (RIF, CYP3A4), and phenobarbital (PB, 
CYP3A4). The study revealed no inductive effect of sorafenib on human CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 after 
repeated exposure up to a concentration of at least 3 µg/ml, whereas OME (100 µM), RIF (50 µM), 
and PB (2 mM) showed their inducer-specific changes of the CYP isoform activities. 
The  inhibitory  potency  of  sorafenib  towards  human  cytochrome  P-450  isoforms  was  investigated. 
Only small inhibitory effects on CYP2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 were observed (Ki = 17 µM, 22 µM, and 29 
µM, respectively). Sorafenib inhibited CYP2B6, 2C8, and 2C9 activities (Ki = 5 - 6 µM, 1 - 2 µM, 
and 7 - 8 µM, respectively). The potency of sorafenib to inhibit single CYP isoforms was according to 
10/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
the following order: CYP2C8 > CYP2B6, CYP2C9 > CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4. CYP inhibition 
caused by metabolite M-2 was in the same range as for sorafenib itself. 
The  inhibitory  potency  of  sorafenib  towards  five  human  UDP-glucuronosyltransferases  and  towards 
acetaminophen glucuronidation, catalyzed by multiple UGTs, was investigated. Propofol was selected 
as  suitable  selective  substrate  for  UGT1A9  and  its  glucuronidation  was  significantly  inhibited  by 
sorafenib  (Ki  =  2.2  µM).  Sorafenib  was  also  a  substrate  of  UGT1A9  (Km  =  3  –  8  µM).  3-
Glucuronidation  of  estradiol  as  well  as  SN-38  glucuronidation  were  strongly  inhibited  (Ki  =1.0  µM 
and 2.7 µM, respectively).  
Sorafenib (100 and 200 µM) did not affect biotransformation of [14C] 5-fluorouracil in vitro, whereas 
uracil  (100  µM,  positive  control)  as  a  substrate  of  dihydropyrimidine  dehydrogenase  inhibited  5-
fluorouracil metabolism to one third of control activity. 
•  Other pharmacokinetic studies 
The metabolic pattern in plasma of male Wistar rats was investigated following oral administration of 
5  mg/kg  [14C]  M2,  the  major  human  circulating  metabolite  identified.  There  was  a  time-dependent 
decrease of [14C] M2 from 96 % (after 30 minutes) to 6 % of the radioactivity present in plasma, 48 
hours  following  administration.  After  7  hours  M2  was  still  the  major  component.  In  terms  of  AUC, 
M2 represented the majority of the radioactivity present in plasma (57.8 %). M2 moderately inhibited 
CYP2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 and exhibited a more pronounced inhibitory effect on CYP2C8. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The  toxicity  of  single  doses  of  sorafenib  has  been  investigated  via  the  oral  route  in  mice,  rats  and 
dogs. The highest single oral sorafenib dose of 1460 mg/kg was tolerated in mice and rats without any 
sign of toxicity. In Beagle dogs, vomiting was observed after a single oral dose of 120 mg/kg solution, 
and 1000 mg/kg powder (1370 mg/kg of the tosylate salt) After administration of two times 24 hours 
i.p  doses  of  125-500  mg/kg  of  sorafenib  in  mice,  apathy,  roughened  fur,  hard  abdomen,  spasm, 
periodically  stretching  of  body  and  difficulty  in  breathing  were  observed  but  mortality  was  not 
induced. At 500 mg/kgone male died. At the 1000 mg/kg dose, all males and one female died. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The long term toxicity of sorafenib was tested in mice (3 months), rats (up to 6-month), Beagle dogs 
(up to 12 months).  
A group of 10 male and 10 female Wistar rats were treated orally for 4 weeks at 0 -125 mg/kg dose of 
sorafenib.  Mortalities  prior  to  the  end  of  4  weeks  treatment  included  3  males  and  9  females  at  25 
mg/kg, 3 males and 1 female at 125 mg/kg. Dose-dependent clinical signs of toxicity were noted at 5 
mg/kg and above. In the clinico-chemical investigations, increases were seen in AST, ALT (beginning 
at 1 mg/kg), GLDH and LDH (at 25 and 125 mg/kg), cholesterol and bilirubin (beginning at 5 mg/kg). 
An increase was seen in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) at 5 mg/kg with decreases at 25 and 125 mg/kg. 
In  urine,  increases  were  seen  in  protein,  urine  creatinine  (in  females  only),  NAG,  and  LDH, 
particularly at 25 and 125 mg/kg. Histopathological evaluation revealed treatment-related findings in 
the  majority  of  animals  treated  at  25  or  125  mg/kg.  Overall,  the  changes  were  classified  as 
degenerative  in  the  adrenal  glands,  liver,  stomach, duodenum, pancreas, kidneys, heart, and ovaries. 
Regenerative  changes  were  observed  in  the  liver  (bile  duct  proliferation),  pancreas,  duodenum  and 
kidneys. Necrosis was observed in the spleen, lymph nodes, and thymus. Effects in male reproductive 
organs included retardation in testes, epididymides, prostate and seminal vesicles. Most of the findings 
could  be  shown  to  be  reversible.  However,  bile  duct  proliferation,  liver  fibrosis,  effects  on 
lymphoreticular system were still visible at the end of the 1-month recovery period. A NOAEL was 
not established. 
In a 6 month toxicity study,20 male and 20 female Wistar rats were treated daily orally by gavage at 0 
-2.5 mg/kg dose of sorafenib. The lowest dose causing significant toxicity (LOAEL) was 1 mg/kg/day. 
A NOAEL was not established for females. 
11/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  a  4-week  study  in  dogs  with  initial  twice-daily  administration  of  10,  30,  or  60  mg/kg,  both  30 
mg/kg bid and 60 mg/kg bid of sorafenib induced emesis, bloody diarrhoea and reduced body weight 
gain > Dosing was therefore reduced to once daily after one week of treatment.  
After the administration of 30 mg/kg of sorafenib, once-daily for 3 or 12 months in dogs, effects on 
the  GI  tract  (bloody  diarrhoea)  and  on  the  skin  (hair  loss,  inflammation)  were  observed.  At 
histopathology,  degenerative  and  regenerative  processes  were  seen  dose-dependently  in  multiple 
tissues including kidneys, lymphoreticular / hematopoetic system, GI tract, adrenals, teeth and bone. 
Marked morphological changes were observed in the liver and skin. The morphological no-effect-level 
after 3 or 12 months treatment was below 10 mg/kg/day. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The  genotoxicity  of  sorafenib  tosylate  was  studied  with  respect  to  gene  mutations  in  bacteria, 
chromosomal aberrations in vitro in Chinese hamster V79 cells, and in vivo in the mouse micronucleus 
test in bone marrow. Sorafinib was investigated using the Salmonella/microsome plate incorporation 
test for point mutagenic effects in doses of up to 5000 µg per plate on five Salmonella typhimurium 
LT2 mutants. Doses up to 8µg per plate did not cause any bacteriotoxic effects. Total bacteria counts 
remained unchanged and no inhibition of growth was observed. At higher doses the substance had a 
strong, strain-specific bacteriotoxic effect. Evidence of mutagenic activity of sorafenib was not seen. 
No biologically relevant increase in the mutant count was observed. The cytogenetics in vitro test for 
clastogenicity  using  Chinese  hamster  V79  cells  was  negative  without  metabolic  activation,  but  was 
positive for clastogenicity in the cytotoxic range of doses (cytotoxicity starting at 40 µg/ml) following 
addition of a liver microsome preparation (S9-mix). The Micronucleus test for clastogenicity in NMRI 
mice with intraperitoneal sorafenib tosylate doses of 0, 125, 250, or 500 mg/kg (sorafenib dose up to 
365 mg/kg) was negative.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with sorafenib. 
•  Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
(pale  appearance,  missing 
Developmental  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Twenty-two  inseminated  female 
Wistar rats were treated orally by gavage with sorafenib tosylate. The rats were treated from day 6 to 
17  post  conceptionem  with  sorafenib  doses  of  0  to  2.5  mg/kg/day.  Treatment-related  effects  were 
observed at 2.5 mg/kg and included impaired gestation rate (one total late resorption), increased post-
implantation loss (late resorptions) and consequently decreased mean litter size, increased incidence of 
necrotic  placental  borders  and  pale  placentas,  decreased  placental  and  fetal  weights,  retarded  fetal 
skeletal  ossification  in  relation  to  reduced  fetal  weights  and  increased  incidence  of  external  and 
visceral  deviations 
innominate  artery)  and  skeletal  variations 
(supernumerary 14th ribs). Incidence of generally common fetal malformations of different types was 
as  well  increased  at  2.5  mg/kg.  The  NOAELs  determined  for  systemic  maternal  toxicity  and 
intrauterine development were 1 mg/kg/day and 0.2 mg/kg/day, respectively. 
Twenty  female  Himalayan  rabbits  were  treated  daily  by  oral  administration  (gavage)  with  sorafenib 
tosylate from days 6 to 20 post conceptionem with 0 to 3 mg/kg dose of sorafenib. Sorafenib induced 
teratogenic  effects  at  3  mg/kg/day  (AUC0-24h  12  mg.h/l;  0.1  times  the  expected  clinical  exposure). 
Increased incidence of fetal malformations mainly malformations of kidneys, vertebrae, and ribs was 
seen at 3 mg/kg/day. A treatment-related effect on external and visceral deviations was not evident at 
doses  up  to  and  including  the  highest  tested  dose  (3  mg/kg/day).  Skeletal  development 
(retardations/variations) revealed an increased incidence of fused sternebrae and retarded ossification 
of cervical vertebral bodies and frontal bones at 3 mg/kg/day. Fetal sex distribution was shifted to 40% 
males at 3 mg/kg/day. At 3 mg/kg/day, decreased maternal weights, decreased gestation rate due to the 
abortion of one female, and by three females, which showed total resorptions, incidences of placental 
findings  (partly  necrotic  placentas),  increased  postimplantation  loss  in  females  with  viable  fetuses, 
mainly  caused  by  late  resorptions  and  decreased  mean  number  of  fetuses  were  observed.  Increased 
12/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incidence  of  females  with  cold  ears  (transient  occurrence)  increasing  with  dose  (NOAEL  was  <  0.3 
mg/kg/day in maternal and NOAEL was 1 mg/kg in pups). 
In  the  4-,13-  and  26-  week  study  in  rats,  treatment-related  effects  at  a  dose  of  25  mg/kg/day  of 
sorafenib  were  observed  (in  male  reproductive  organs  included  retardation  in  testes,  epididymides, 
prostate and seminal vesicles; in females there were retarded ovaries and central necrosis of corpora 
lutea). 
Dogs  showed  tubular  degeneration  in  a  12-month  study  at  30  mg/kg/day,  and  oligospermia  in  the 
epididymides was found at 60 mg/kg/day.  
•  Local tolerance  
In rabbits, sorafenib was not irritant to the skin or to the eyes and there were no systemic intolerance 
reactions ([29, 30]) 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
No specific studies to investigate immunotoxicity were performed. 
Metabolites 
M-2  has  been  toxicologically  characterised  with  respect  to  genotoxicity  (in  vitro  bacterial  mutation) 
and repeat dose toxicity (1-month oral rat study). M-2 did not induce genotoxic effects in vitro in the 
Ames test. In the repeat dose toxicity study survival as well as the appearance or behavior of the rats 
were not affected by treatment with M2. At 5 and 25 mg/kg, the animals exhibited slight body weight 
retardation.  Results  from  urinalysis  were  unremarkable.  Hematology  revealed  slightly  elevated 
numbers of erythrocytes, hemoglobin and hematocrit at 5 and 25 mg/kg, in addition slightly reduced 
platelet counts in 25 mg/kg rats. Blood clinical chemistry revealed a tendency to increased activities of 
AST  and  ALT  in  rats  receiving  5  or  25  mg/kg,  plasma  concentrations  of  triglycerides  were  slightly 
reduced after 25 mg/kg. At histopathology, the only remarkable finding was a treatment-related dentin 
alteration and increased numbers of adipocytes in the bone marrow of 5 and 25 mg/kg animals. There 
was no morphological correlate for the elevated serum markers for liver toxicity and decreased liver 
weights observed at necropsy. The NOAEL was 1 mg/kg/day. 
Studies on impurities 
Two  impurities  have  been  toxicologically  characterised  in  genotoxicity  trial  (in  vitro  bacterial 
mutation).  
An Ames test and a repeat-dose (4-week) toxicity study in rats were performed with PAPE-urea. There 
was no indication for a genotoxic potential of PAPE-urea. In the 4-week rat study with experimental 
conditions  the  highest  dose  tested,  1000  mg/kg/day,  was  tolerated  without  any  signs  of  systemic 
toxicity. 
For the second impurity (PAPE) an Ames test was positive after metabolic activation (S9-mix), with a 
lowest  effect-dose  of  624  µg/plate,  but  negative  without  metabolic  activation.  One  batch,  which 
contained  0.34%  PAPE  was  tested  in  the  Ames  test,  the  chromosomal  aberrations  test  and  in  the  in 
vivo micronucleus test, no genotoxic effect was seen in either the Ames test or the micronucleus test. 
However, genotoxic effects were induced in the chromosomal aberration test. 
13/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The calculated PECSURFACEWATER was below the action limit of 0.01µg/l, taking individual market 
penetration factors into consideration.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
Sorafenib  was  highly  efficacious  in  vivo  in  renal  tumour  xenograft  models  (RENCA  model).  Anti-
tumour  efficacy  was  also  demonstrated  in  vivo  in  a  number  of  different  non-renal  tumour  xenograft 
models  by  affecting  the  RAS/RAF/MEK  pathway.  This  included  xenograft  models  of  human  colon, 
lung, breast, melanoma, leukaemia, pancreatic, and ovarian cancer. The efficacy of sorafenib against 
this tumour models suggested that a RAF kinase inhibitor may have utility not only in human tumours 
containing  ras  and/or  b-raf  mutations,  but  also  in  tumours  that  overexpress  other  growth  factor 
receptors that signal through the same pathway. Furthermore, sorafenib was very effective against the 
MV4-11 AML model  that expresses an activating Flt3 mutation. In cellular assays in vitro, sorafenib 
inhibited  the  RAF/MEK/ERK  pathway  in  breast,  pancreatic,  melanoma,  and  colon  tumour  lines  as 
evidenced  by  reduction  of  phospho-ERK  levels  including  cell  lines  expressing  either  wild-type  or 
mutant k-RAS or BRAF. However, inhibition of the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway was not observed in the 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) lines A549 and H460, at concentrations up to 20 µM sorafenib. 
The mechanism underlying the lack of inhibition of ERK phosphorylation in these cell lines has not 
been elucidated. 
No  direct  comparison  was  made  non-clinically  between  a  tumour  model  that  expresses  a  wild  type 
VHL  and  a  VHL  mutant  subline  of  the  same  model.  Sorafenib  was  active  against  the  786-0  human 
renal  tumour  model  that  has  a  VHL  deletion  and  was  less  active  against  the  CAKI-1  human  renal 
tumour  model  that  expresses  wild  type  VHL.  However,  since  these  two  tumour  lines  were  derived 
independently from separate patients, it could not be concluded that the difference in VHL status was 
solely responsible for the different sensitivity to sorafenib. Although this data could help to predict the 
sensitivity of a human tumour to sorafenib therapy, limited data did not support patient selection for 
sorafenib treatment based on this biomarker (see clinical pharmacology section). 
Pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  were  studied  in  several  non-clinical  tumour  xenograft  models. 
The  results  suggested  that  sorafenib  can  be  combined  with  paclitaxel,  irinotecan,  gemcitabine, 
gefitinib and cisplatin with no significant increase in the toxicity and without diminishing their anti-
tumour  efficacy.  However,  the  combination  of  sorafenib  and  doxorubicin  required  reduction  of  the 
dose  level  of  both  agents  to  attain  acceptable  tolerance  and  efficacy  (see  clinical  pharmacokinetc 
section). 
The  metabolites  M-2,  M-4  and M-5 inhibited several receptor tyrosine kinases including VEGFR-2, 
PDGFR-β, and Flt-3, showing a similar in vitro pharmacological activity as sorafenib, but they were 
present  at  much  lower  plasma  levels.  Thus,  the  metabolites  did  not  much  contribute  to  the  overall 
activity.  The  most  predominant  human  metabolite,  M-2,  was  also  evaluated  in  vivo  for  anti-tumour 
efficacy  against  the  MDA-MB-231  xenograft  model  and  was  less  active  than  the  parent  compound.  
However, the degree to which M-2 contributed to the anti-tumour efficacy of sorafenib could not be 
determined as M-2 was partially converted to sorafenib in vivo. 
Pharmakokinetics 
Sorafenib  was  almost  completely  absorbed  in  mice  and  rats  and  moderately  absorbed  in  dogs. 
Sorafenib  and/or  its  metabolites  were  widely  distributed,  crossed  the  blood-brain  barrier  and 
penetrated the placental barrier. In animals, sorafenib and/or its metabolites were excreted into milk. It 
is  not  known  whether  sorafenib  is  excreted  in  human  milk.  Because  sorafenib  could  harm  infant 
growth  and  development,  breast-feeding  is  contraindicated  during  sorafenib  treatment  (see  SPC 
sections 4.3, 4.6 and 5.3). 
In human, sorafenib was subject to two important biotransformation pathways. Formation of M-2 was 
catalyzed  by  CYP3A4  and  formation  of  the  drug  glucuronide  M-7  was  mediated  by  UGT1A9. 
Additionally,  human  kidney  was  also  capable  of  forming  glucuronide  M-7.  In  vitro  incubations  of 
14/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
[14C]sorafenib  tosylate  with  liver  microsomes  of  human  and  animal  species  revealed  two  phase I 
reactions  to  be  prominent:  hydroxylation  of  the  N-methyl  group  yielding  metabolite  M-3  and 
N-oxidation  at  the  pyridine  moiety  yielding  metabolite  M-2.  Based  on  comparison  of  metabolite 
profiles, mouse and rat was considered roughly similar to human. M-2, however, was only formed in 
smaller amounts in dogs and rabbits. Rhesus monkey was regarded as most similar to human. 
Sorafenib did not induce human CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 in cultured human hepatocytes. Sorafenib was 
capable of inhibiting CYP2C8, CYP2B6 and CYP2C9 activities in human liver microsomes whereas 
only small inhibitory effects on CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 were observed.  Glucuronidation 
of propofol (UGT1A9) was significantly inhibited. 3-Glucuronidation of estradiol (UGT1A1) as well 
inhibit 
as  SN-38  glucuronidation  (UGT1A1)  were  strongly 
dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in vitro. Hence, clinical drug interactions might be expected due to 
inhibition  specifically  of  the  CYP2C8,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C9,  UGT1A9  and  UGT1A1  enzymes  (see 
SPC, section 4.4 and 4.5, see also clinical pharmacokinetic section). 
inhibited.  Sorafenib  did  not 
Toxicology 
The  toxicology  of  sorafenib  was  investigated  in  accordance  with  the  European  guidelines  [31],[32]. 
Sorafenib  was  of  low  acute  toxicity.  Single-dose  studies  with  intravenous  administration  were  not 
performed due to the very low solubility of sorafenib in suitable vehicles. When comparing non-lethal 
doses, the multiple to human maximum dose (13 mg/kg) was approximately 100 in the mouse and rat, 
and 75 in the dog. In repeat-dose toxicity studies, the MTD was 100 mg/kg/day in mice (3-months), 5 
mg/kg/day  in  rats  (3-months)  and  >60  mg/kg/day  in  dogs  (12-months).  The  main  target  organs  of 
toxicity with possible impact on the human risk assessment were: liver, kidneys, gastrointestinal-tract, 
cardio-vascular  system,  lymphoreticular/hematopoietic  system,  adrenals,  reproductive  organs,  teeth, 
bone, and skin. Some of the morphological lesions were fully reversible or showed at least a tendency 
towards  recovery.  However,  bile  duct  proliferation,  liver  fibrosis,  effects  on  lymphoreticular  system 
were still visible at the end of the 1-month recovery period. Effects on the liver were observed in mice, 
rats  and  dogs  after  repeated  oral  administration.  Increased  levels  of  ALT,  AST,  GLDH  and  ALP  in 
serum  were  accompanied  by  histopathological  changes  and  also  mostly  by  decreased  liver  weights. 
The  estimated  exposure  multiple  towards  the  estimated  clinical  exposure  was  1-3,  0.7  and  <0.2  in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs,  respectively.  An  anti-diuretic  effect  and  histopathologically  nephropathy 
including  tubular  dilation,  hyaline  casts  and  basophilic  tubules  were  observed  in  different  animal 
studies. The exposure multiple towards the estimated clinical exposure was 2-4, 0.1 and <0.2 in mice, 
rats and dogs, respectively.  
Effects on peripheral white and red blood cell serum parameters or on blood coagulation parameters 
were  observed  at  relatively  low  dose  levels  in  the  repeat  dose  studies.  The  observations  were  often 
accompanied  by  changes  in  the  blood-forming  elements  (bone  marrow,  spleen)  and  immune  organs 
(thymus,  spleen)  but  then  mostly  at  a  slightly  higher  dose  to  where  haematological  changes  were 
noted.  The  exposure  multiple  towards  the  estimated  clinical  exposure  was  0.5-3,  <0.7  and  <0.2  in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs,  respectively.  In  young  and  growing  dogs  after  repeated  dosing,  irregular 
thickening of the femoral growth plate, hypocellularity of the bone marrow next to the altered growth 
plate,  and  alterations  of  the  dentin  composition  in  the  teeth  were  observed.  In  aged  adult  dogs,  no 
treatment related morphological changes in the femoral bone or in the teeth were observed. In rats and 
mice  after  repeated  dosing,  marked  effects  on  the  teeth  including  altered  dentin  composition  were 
observed.  The  extrapolation  of these findings to the  human is difficult as in contrast to humans, the 
teeth of the rodent species used (in particular the incisors) are continuously growing through the life of 
the  animal.  The  LOAEL  for  bone  was,  5  mg/kg/day  (rat,  6-month)  and  10  mg/kg/day  (dog).  The 
exposure  multiple  towards  the  estimated  clinical  exposure  was  0.7  and  <0.2  in  rats  and  dogs, 
respectively. The LOAEL for teeth was 100 mg/kg/day (mice), 0.1 mg/kg/day (female rat, 6-month) 
and 30 mg/kg/day (dog). The exposure multiple towards the estimated clinical exposure was 1-3, 0.01 
and <0.5 in mice, rats and dogs, respectively. Overall, a potential risk of toxicity on bone and teeth of 
children or adolescents cannot be excluded (see SPC section 5.3).  
The standard program of genotoxicity studies was conducted and positive results were obtained as an 
increase in structural chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro mammalian cell assay (Chinese hamster 
ovary)  for  clastogenicity  in  the  presence  of  metabolic  activation  was  seen.  Sorafenib  was  not 
genotoxic  in  the  Ames  test  or  in  the  in  vivo  mouse  micronucleus  assay.  One  intermediate  in  the 
manufacturing process, which is also present in the final drug substance (< 0.15%), was positive for 
15/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
mutagenesis  in  the  Ames  test.  Furthermore,  the  sorafenib  batch  tested  in  the  standard  genotoxicity 
program included 0.34% PAPE. Studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of sorafenib have not 
been performed. The omission of carcinogenicity studies is acceptable for this type of compound [5]. 
No  specific  studies  have  been  conducted  in  animals  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  sorafenib  on  fertility. 
Repeat-dose  studies  in  animals  have  shown  changes  in  male  and  female  reproductive  organs  at 
exposures below the anticipated clinical exposure  (based on AUC). Sorafenib has been shown to be 
embryotoxic  and  teratogenic  when  administered  to  rats  and  rabbits  at  exposures  below  the  clinical 
exposure.  Therefore,  it  is  recommended  that  sorafenib  is  not  used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly 
necessary, after careful considerations of the needs of the mother and the risk to the foetus. Women of 
childbearing  potential  must  use  effective  contraception  during  treatment  (see  SPC  sections  4.6  and 
5.3). 
Sorafenib and its metabolite M-2 had a similar toxicological profile. The specification limit of 0.15% 
for two impurities was considered toxicologically qualified and justified in view of its use in patients 
with  advanced  renal  cancer.  A  third  impurity  was  considered  toxicologically  qualified  up  to  0.74%. 
Sorafenib was considered unlikely to pose a risk to the environment [33] . 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical programme of sorafenib comprised seven dose-finding and PK phase I studies involving 
patients with advanced solid tumours. Patients from these studies were allowed to continue treatment 
with sorafenib in an extension phase II protocol (study 10922). The phase II program explored signals 
for efficacy in several tumour types (study 100391 in advanced, refractory colorectal cancer and renal 
cell  carcinoma,  and  study 10874  in  hepatocellular  carcinoma).  In  addition,  four  studies  explored  the 
combination  of  sorafenib  with  other  antineoplastic  agents  [oxaliplatin  (study  10954),  doxorubicin 
(study  10916),  gemcitabine  (study  100374),  irinotecan  (study  10981)].  A  phase III  pivotal  study 
(study 11213) compared sorafenib 400 mg twice daily with placebo in patients with advanced RCC.  
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Sorafenib treatment must be supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
The recommended dose in adults is 400 mg (two tablets of 200 mg) twice daily (equivalent to a total 
daily dose of 800 mg). It is recommended that sorafenib is administered without food or with a low or 
moderate fat meal. If the patient intends to have a high-fat meal, sorafenib tablets should be taken at 
least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the meal. The tablets should be swallowed with a glass of water. 
The  treatment  should  continue  as  long  as  clinical  benefit  is  observed  or  until  unacceptable  toxicity 
occurs.  Management  of  suspected  adverse  drug  reactions  may  require  temporary  interruption  and/or 
dose reduction of sorafenib therapy. When dose reduction is necessary, the sorafenib dose should be 
reduced to two tablets of 200 mg once daily (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  (PK)  plasma  samples  from  clinical  studies  were  analysed  for  sorafenib  using 
validated HPLC assays with mass-spectrometric detection. The lower limit of quantitation in plasma 
was 1-10 µg/l for sorafenib (varied by study), 25 µg/l for M1 and 10 µg/l for metabolites M2, M3, M4 
and  M5.  The  lower  limit  of  quantitation  in  urine  was  approximately  10  µg/l  for  sorafenib  and 
metabolite M2. Metabolites M7 and M8, glucuronides of parent drug and metabolite M2, respectively, 
were measured indirectly as sorafenib and M2 after hydrolyzing the corresponding glucuronide. The 
lower limit of quantitation for both analytes was approximately 14 µg/l based on the conversion factor. 
Upper  calibration  range  was  approximately  10,000  µg/l  for  sorafenib  and  metabolite  M2  and 
approximately  14,000  for  metabolites  M7  and  M8.  Precision  for  all  analytes  for  all  methods  was 
within  15%,  and  accuracy  was  within  85  -  115%.  Stability  of  all  analytes  was  determined  under 
sample handling conditions, freeze-thaw cycles and for the duration the samples from clinical studies 
were  stored  prior  to  analysis.  All  analytes  were  stable  under  those  conditions.  Cross-validation  for 
16/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
different  analytical  sites  was  performed.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  using  non-
compartmental methods. 
•  Absorption  
In healthy volunteers, sorafenib taken with a moderate-fat meal was rapidly absorbed with a median 
Tmax ranging from 4 to 8 hours. In patients, the median Tmax was approximately 3 hours (range 0-24 
hours).  Secondary  absorption  peaks  were  observed  at  8-12  and  24  hours  postdose,  indicating 
enterohepatic re-circulation. 
Permeability  evaluations  in  Caco-2  cells  indicated  that  sorafenib  is  a  highly  permeable  compound 
based  on  comparison  with  22  reference  compounds.  The efflux ratio of sorafenib for transport from 
basolateral to apical  side  to  transport  from  the  apical to basolateral  side  of  Caco-2  cells  was  4.7  and 
2.5 at 0.1 and 1 µM sorafenib, respectively, indicating significant but saturable efflux. However, the 
efflux ratios for known substrates of efflux pumps such as vinblastine (29.6) and sulphasalzine (42.3) 
were  higher,  indicating  that  sorafenib  is  a  weak  substrate  for  an  efflux  pump.  Sorafenib  efflux  was 
also  evaluated  in  monolayers  of  P-gp-expressing  L-MDR1  cells  in  the  presence  and  absence  of 
ivermectin, a potent P-gp inhibitor. In this study the efflux ratio was 6.78 and 4.25 at 0.1 and 1 µM 
sorafenib,  respectively.  The  sorafenib  efflux  was  inhibited  by  ivermectin.  The  efflux  ratios  for 
sorafenib  in  this  experiment  were  in  the  same  range  as  those  reported  in  the  literature  for  prazosin 
(4.6) and vincristine (6.3). Efflux ratio reported for paclitaxel in P-gp over-expressing cells is >108. 
The efflux observed for sorafenib was low to moderate.  
Bioavailability 
The absolute bioavailability of sorafenib has not been determined as no intravenous formulation has 
been developed. The pharmacokinetic parameters of sorafenib following the administration of a single 
oral doses of sorafenib given as liquid formulation (polysorbate 80-based oral solution) or as 50 mg 
tablets to patients are provided in the table below. 
Table 2: PK parameters of sorafenib following single oral dose given as liquid formulation or as 50 
mg tablets [geometric means / (%CV)] (n=3 / cohort) 
Parameter 
Unit 
Liquid formulation 
50 mg tablet 
Dose 
AUC 
Cmax 
a 
tmax
t½ 
a median (range); b AUC0-tn 
mg∗h/l 
mg /l 
h 
h 
Bioequivalence  
100 mg 
64.6 / 63% 
2.10 / 22% 
2.5 (1.0-6.0) 
34.9 / 51% 
200 mg 
59.7 / 51% 
2.10 / 21% 
3.0 (2.5-3.0) 
32.1 / 26% 
100 mg 
24.5 / 52% 
0.75 / 34% 
8.0 (8.0-12.0) 
38.0 / 10% 
400 mg 
58.3 / 22%b 
3.53 / 31% 
3.1(3.0-3.1) 
In one study (n=26-34), similar exposures were obtained with a single 400 mg dose given either as 50 
mg tablets or as 200 mg tablets. 
Influence of food  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  sorafenib  after  a  single  400  mg  (given  as  200  mg  tablets)  dose  were 
evaluated in 15 healthy volunteers (study 100484) following administration of a high-fat breakfast, a 
moderate-fat  breakfast  and  administration  in  the  fasted  state.  Sorafenib  bioavailability  from  tablets 
following administration of a moderate-fat breakfast was almost similar to that when administered in 
the fasted state, although there was a trend towards increased AUC (14%). However, when given with 
a  high-fat  breakfast,  sorafenib  absorption  was  reduced  by  approximately  29%  compared  to 
administration  in  the  fasted  state.  Study  100545  confirmed  that  concomitant  administration  of  a 
moderate-fat  meal  with  400  mg  sorafenib  (given  as  50  mg  tablets)  in  29  healthy  volunteers  had  no 
influence on AUC of sorafenib compared to fasted dosing.  
The solubility of sorafenib tosylate ranges from 0.034 mg/100ml at pH 1.0, to 0.013 mg/100ml at pH 
4.5. The influence of intra-gastric pH on sorafenib pharmacokinetics is described in the PK interaction 
studies (antiacids) section (see also discussion on clinical PK). 
17/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
As  there  was  no  study  with  intravenous  administration  of  sorafenib,  the  volume  of  distribution  was 
determined. Apparent volume (V/F) was not reported.  
Sorafenib  and  its  main  metabolite  in  plasma  (M2)  were  to  99.5% bound to plasma proteins. Protein 
binding was linear across concentrations. Sorafenib and M2 were primarily bound to serum albumin 
and  to  a  lesser  extent  to  α-globulins,  β-globulins  and  LDL  but  not  to  γ-globulins  and  α1-acid 
glycoprotein.  Sorafenib  was  distributed  between  red  blood  cells  and  plasma  with  a  plasma  to  blood 
ratio of 1.33. In man, total plasma radioactivity and sorafenib were subject to enterohepatic circulation 
as indicated by several secondary maxima of the plasma concentration time curves and was explained 
by  two  different  processes:  i)  glucuronidation  of  the  drug,  biliary  excretion  of  the  glucuronidated 
metabolite M7 into the gut, cleavage of the glucuronide and reabsorption of sorafenib, ii) oxidation of 
the  drug  to  metabolite  M2,  biliary  excretion  of  M2  into  the  gut,  reduction  by  colonic  bacteria  to 
sorafenib and reabsorption.  
•  Metabolism 
The biotransformation of sorafenib in vitro was investigated using liver microsomes of several animal 
species  and  humans,  microsomes  containing  heterologously  expressed  human  cytochromes  or 
glucuronosyl transferases and rat and human hepatocytes (see non-clinical section). Table 3 provides a 
summary of the identified metabolites formed in human, in vivo and/or in vitro, and their occurrence in 
plasma, faeces and urine over 192 hours sampling after a single dose in the mass-balance study.  
Table 3: The human metabolites of sorafenib and their occurrence after a single dose  
Substance  
Sorafenib  
M1  Combination of  N-oxidation and 
N-methylhydroxylation 
M2  N-oxidation 
M3  N-methylhydroxylation 
demethylation 
M4 
oxidative metabolite 
M5 
carboxylic acid 
M6 
glucuronide of sorafenib 
M7 
M8 
glucuronide of M2 
nd = not detected 
Plasma (% of total 
radioactivity) 
73% 
nd 
16.7%  
trace amounts 
1% 
nd 
trace amounts 
0.5% 
nd 
Faeces (% of dose)  Urine (% of dose) 
50.7% 
nd 
nd 
0.4% 
1.2% 
nd 
19.1% 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
nd 
14.8% 
2.7% 
At 400 mg b.i.d. multiple dosing, metabolites M2 and M4 accumulate to a similar extent as sorafenib. 
At steady state, metabolite M2 exposure was16% (sum of parent and measured metabolites) and M4 
exposure was 8% of the total exposure. Metabolites M2 and M4 reached a steady state after 7 days of 
dosing. M5 was 6% of the total exposure at steady state. M5 reached a steady state after 14 days of 
dosing. The major metabolite M2 was eliminated via further metabolism to M1, glucuronidation to M8 
and possibly biliary excretion.  
•  Elimination 
The mean terminal half-life determined for sorafenib across studies varied between 25-48 hours.  
The disposition and excretion of sorafenib and its metabolites was evaluated in a clinical mass-balance 
study with a single oral administration of 100 mg  14C-sorafenib as oral solution to four healthy male 
volunteers.  A  total  of  96%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  excreta  within  14  days,  and  77%  of  the 
radioactivity  was  recovered  in  faeces.  Unchanged  sorafenib  was  the  major  constituent  in  faecal 
extracts  (51%  of  the  dose).  About  10%  of  the  dose  (5-8%  of  the  dose  as  unchanged  drug)  was 
recovered  in  the  first  faecal  sample  (0-48hr),  while  the  largest  fractions  of  the  dose  (25-38%  of  the 
dose as total radioactivity or 19-25% as unchanged drug) was found in the second (48-72 hr) or third 
(72-96%)  samples.  The  major  metabolite  in faeces was the carboxylic acid M6 (9.1 % of the dose). 
18/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M3 and M4 were minor metabolites (0.4% and 1.2% of the dose, respectively). M2 was not found in 
faeces, likely due to its instability towards intestinal bacteria.  
Approximately 19% of the dose was recovered in urine as glucuronidated metabolites. No unchanged 
sorafenib  was  found  in  urine,  but  two  metabolites,  M7  and  M8  could  be  detected  and  identified  as 
glucuronide of sorafenib and glucuronide of the predominant plasma metabolite, M2, respectively. M7 
accounted for 78.6 % and M8 for 14.1 % of the radioactivity in urine, respectively (14.8 % and 2.7 % 
of the dose, respectively). 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
With  the  oral  solution,  the  exposure  did  not  increase  linearly  at  doses  of  100  mg  and  higher  in  a 
multiple-dose study in patients. However, with b.i.d. dosing, there was a dose-dependent increase in 
AUC  with  increasing  dose  up  to  400  mg  b.i.d.  administered  as  tablets,  although  the  variability  was 
high  within  and  between  studies.  At  higher  doses,  exposure  increased  less  than  proportionally  with 
dose:  Mean  AUC(0-12),ss  values  at  the  600 mg b.i.d.  dose  level  were  slightly  greater  than  those  at 
400 mg b.i.d. and mean AUC(0-12),ss at the 800 mg dose level was not greater than that at 600 mg b.i.d 
(see table 4).  
Sorafenib exposures reach steady state after 7 days of dosing. With 400 mg b.i.d. dosing, there was on 
average  a  4-fold  and  4.7-fold  accumulation  at  steady  state  in  Cmax,ss  and  AUC(0-12),ss  values, 
respectively.  
Table  4:  Mean  plasma  pharmacokinetic  parameters  following  28  days  of  dosing  in  patients  (study 
100277) 
Dose 
AUC0-24 -(mg*h/l)  AUC0-12 (mg*h/l) 
Cmax (mg/l) 
N  
100 mg  
once daily  mean (CV%) 
N  
100 mg  
mean (CV%) 
bid 
N  
200 mg  
mean (CV%) 
bid 
N  
400 mg  
mean (CV%) 
bid 
N  
600 mg  
mean (CV%) 
bid 
Day 1 
3  
8.75 (35.1) 
2 
6.13 (74.0) 
4 
10.88 (38.4) 
4 
21.81 (58.8) 
3 
10.06 (96.7) 
Day 28 
4 
15.06 (64.6) 
3 
45.98 (36.7) 
5 
34.72 (43.8) 
3 
47.78 (24.0) 
5 
38.09 (36.8) 
t1/2 (h) 
Day 28 
2 
Day1 
4 
3 
0.81 (61.3) 
6 
Day 28 
4 
0.81 (37.6)  0.85 (62.0)   23.8 (1.7) 
3 
5.4838.9) 
5 
1.34 (33.8)  3.95 (52.3)  31.8 (10.1) 
3 
2.87 (68.4)  5.37 (41.0)  27.4 (24.1) 
5 
2.00 (71.5)  4.71 (28.5)  26.3 (27.1) 
3 
35.5 (74.6) 
4 
4 
4 
7 
3 
Sorafenib exhibits relatively high inter- and intra-patient pharmacokinetic variability in exposure with 
coefficients of variation around 61%-65% and 44%-47%, respectively.  
•  Special populations 
Impaired  renal  function:  A  retrospective  evaluation  across  studies  was  made  to  evaluate  the 
relationship  between  calculated  creatinine  clearance  and  steady-state  exposure  to  sorafenib. 
Pharmacokinetic data were available from 4 patients with a calculated creatinine clearance in the range 
of 30-50 ml/min, 24 patients in the range of 50-80 ml/min and 71 patients in the range of >80 ml/min. 
Data  were  only  presented  for  patients  receiving  the  400  mg  dose  b.i.d  (phase  I  studies  10164,  100277, 
100283,  100342),  which  did  not  include  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  <  60  ml/min.  Steady  state 
exposure to sorafenib was similar in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment compared to the 
exposures in patients with normal renal function.  
Impaired hepatic function: Pharmacokinetic data was obtained in a phase II study (10874) in patients 
with  hepatocellular  carcinoma  [Child-Pugh A  (n=14)  or  B  (n=8)]  receiving  sorafenib  400  mg  bid. 
Patients with Child Pugh B, compared with patients with Child Pugh A, had numerically higher AUC0-
8hr  [geometric  mean  (%CV)  =  30.3  (82.1)  vs  25.4  (38.4)]  and  Cmax  [geometric  mean  (%CV)  =  5.97 
(73.8)  vs  4.92  (38.7)]  values  for  sorafenib  (differences  not  statistically  significant).  Exposure  to 
19/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metabolite M5 was slightly lower in Child-Pugh B patients, while there were no differences between 
the two groups for M2 and M4.  
Gender:  A  retrospective  evaluation  across  studies  (10164,  100277,  100283  and  100342)  did  not 
indicate a relationship between gender and steady state plasma sorafenib AUC(0-12),ss values following 
administration of 400 mg bid of sorafenib. No evaluation of the relationship between CL/F and gender 
was presented.  
Race: Steady state plasma sorafenib AUC(0-12),ss and Cmax,ss values in Oriental (Japanese) patients 
(studies 10658 and 11497) were compared with those in Caucasian patients  (studies 10164, 100277, 
100283 and 100342) across studies. While the mean sorafenib Cmax,ss [geometric mean (%CV) = 4.91 
(76)  vs  8.3  (57.4)]  and  AUC(0-12),ss  [geometric  mean  (%CV)  =  36.7  (73)  vs  67.3  (56.8)]  values  were 
lower  in  Japanese  patients  (n=6)  compared  to  Caucasian  patients  (n=27)  receiving  sorafenib  400mg 
b.i.d. and for other dosages (data not shown), there was a significant overlap in the range of exposures 
observed  in  these  two  groups.  Sorafenib  had  high  inter-patient  pharmacokinetic  variability  in  both 
patient groups.  
Weight:  A  retrospective  evaluation  across  studies  (10164,  100277,  100283  and  100342)  did  not 
indicate  a  relationship  between  body  weight  and  steady  state  sorafenib  AUC(0-12),ss  values  following 
administration of 400 mg bid of sorafenib. 
Elderly:  A  retrospective  evaluation  across  studies  (10164,  100277,  100283  and  100342)  did  not 
indicate  a  relationship  between  age  and  steady-state  exposure  to  sorafenib.  No  evaluation  of  the 
relationship  between  CL/F  and  age  was  made.  There  were  only  3  patients  above  65  years  in  the 
presented evaluation of the 400 mg dose. 
Children: There were no PK data available in children. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Inhibition of cytochrome P450 
The potential of sorafenib to inhibit cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism in vitro was investigated 
using  recombinant  enzymes  as  well  as  human  liver  microsomes.  Table  5  summarises  the  results  of 
these studies.  
Table 5: Inhibitory effects of sorafenib on formation of metabolites from standard probes mediated by 
CYP isoforms 
2C8 
1A2 
2A6 
2B6 
CYP isoform  Substrate 
Phenacetin 
Phenacetin 
Coumarin 
7-Ethoxytrifluoromethylcoumarin 
Bupropion 
Taxol 
Amodiaquine 
Diclofenac 
Tolbutamide 
S-Mephenytoin 
Bufuralol 
Dextromethorphan 
Chloroxazone 
Testosterone  
Midazolam 
2C19 
2D6 
2E1 
3A4 
2C9 
Enzyme source 
Recombinant enzyme 
Human liver microsomes 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Human liver microsomes 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Recombinant enzyme 
Human liver microsomes 
Recombinant enzyme 
Human liver microsomes 
Human liver microsomes 
Ki [µM] 
232 
n.i. 
n.i. 
6.2 
5.1 
2.4 
0.7 
7.3 
7.7 
17 
4.0 
22.2 
n.i. 
26.3 
28.9 
n.i = no inhibition 
In  an  in  vitro  study  with  pre-incubation  with  sorafenib in the presence and absence of NADPH, the 
inhibition  of  CYP2C9,  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A5  was  neither  time-  nor  NADPH  dependent.  The 
inhibitory potency of M2, towards 8 human CYP isoforms was investigated. M2 moderately inhibited 
CYP2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4 and exhibited a more pronounced inhibitory effect on CYP2C8.  
@EMEA 2006 
20/49 
 
 
Inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 
The  inhibitory  potency  of  sorafenib  towards  five  human  UDP-glucuronosyltransferases  (UGTs)  and 
towards  acetaminophen  glucuronidation,  was  investigated.  The  glucuronidation  of  propofol,  a 
substrate for UGT1A9, was inhibited by sorafenib (Ki = 2.2 µM). Sorafenib also inhibited UGT1A1 as 
shown  by  an  inhibition  of  the  glucuronidation  of  estradiol  as  well  as  SN-38  (active  metabolite  of 
irinotecan) with Ki =1.0 µM and 2.7 µM, respectively. Following repeated administration of 400 mg 
b.i.d. of sorafenib to patients, plasma levels (Cmax) were above Ki values towards UGT1A1 and 1A9. 
Sorafenib did not significantly inhibit UGT1A4, UGT1A6 and UGT2B7 as indicated by IC50 values 
of  61  µM  (UGT1A4)  or  >  100  µM  sorafenib.  Acetaminophen  glucuronidation  was  not  significantly 
inhibited. Genetic polymorphisms of UGT1A9 have been identified. Two alleles UGT1A9*3 [34-37] 
and  UGT1A9*5  [38]  have  been  associated  with  decreased  glucuronidation  activity.  However, 
functional consequences of the UGT1A9 polymorphism are not yet well understood. 
Inhbition of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  
Hepatic  dihydropyrimidine  dehydrogenase  has  been  recognised  as  the  relevant  enzyme  determining 
plasma and tissue concentrations of 5-fluorouracil in man. The inhibitory potency of sorafenib towards 
this enzyme was investigated in human liver cytosolic fractions. Sorafenib (100 and 200 µM) did not 
affect biotransformation of [14C] 5-fluorouracil in vitro. 
Inhibition of P-gp 
In  L-MDR1  cells, sorafenib concentration-dependently inhibited the active efflux of loperamide and 
dipyridamole. The IC50 for the inhibition of loperamide and dipyridamole efflux amounted to 0.84 µM 
and 1.24 µM, respectively.  These IC50 values were significantly lower than the plasma concentrations 
of sorafenib observed during clinical studies.   
Induction of cytochrome P450 
The potential of sorafenib (0.01 to 50 µg/ml) to induce human CYP1A2 and 3A4 was investigated in 
cultured human hepatocytes of two different donors. Omeprazole, rifampicin and phenobarbital were 
used  as  positive  controls.  No  inductive  effect  of  sorafenib  on  human  CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4  after 
repeated exposure up to a concentration of 3 µg/ml was observed.  
Ketokonazol 
An  interaction  study  was  performed  with  50  mg  sorafenib  and  400  mg  ketokonazole  (CYP3A4 
inhibitor)  in  a  one-way  cross-over  study  in  16  healthy  male  volunteers.  Ketoconazole  caused  no 
increase  in  sorafenib  AUC  [ratios  of  LS  means:  0.89,  90%  CI  (0.69,  1.14)] and Cmax [ratios of LS 
means: 0.74, 90% CI (0.56, 0.97)] values and no change in its half-life [ratios of LS means: 1.01, 90% 
CI (0.80, 1.29)] in the absence and presence of ketoconazole administration. These data indicate that 
CYP3A4 may not be the primary metabolic/elimination pathway for sorafenib. M2 was measurable in 
the  absence  of  ketoconazole,  but  when  sorafenib  was  co-administered  with  ketoconazole,  M2 
concentrations could not be measured, indicating that M2 formation via CYP3A4 was inhibited.  
Warfarin 
The  effect  of  sorafenib  on  warfarin  metabolism  was  assessed  indirectly  by  measuring  prothrombin 
time  international  normalized  ratio  (PT-INR)  for  patients  treated  with  warfarin  (pivotal  phase  III 
study; 11 patients in the sorafenib group, 10 patients in the placebo groups). The incidence rate of a 
50% increase in PT-INR from baseline and a 100% increase in PT-INR from baseline, in patients on 
warfarin, were similar in the sorafenib vs. placebo groups. Mean percent maximum change in PT-INR 
ratios was lower in the sorafenib group vs. placebo group.   
Omeprazol, dextromethorphan and midazolam 
Substrates of CYP2C19, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 were administered before and on the last day of a 28-
day cycle with continuous administration of sorafenib 400 mg b.i.d to patients. There were no effects 
of sorafenib on omeprazol, dextromethorphan or midazolam plasma pharmacokinetics in this study.  
Irinotecan 
Following single intravenous infusions of 125mg/m2 irinotecan together with 400 mg b.i.d. sorafenib 
to patients the exposure to the active metabolite of irinotecan  (SN-38), increased approximately by a 
factor of 2, and there was a tendency to increased irinotecan exposure. Concomitant administration of 
100 mg or 200 mg sorafenib b.i.d. did not result in significant changes in either irinotecan or SN-38. 
In a study involving 6 patients, irinotecan had no significant effect on sorafenib at the lower doses of 
sorafenib, but at 400 mg b.i.d. sorafenib + irinotecan 125 mg/m2, sorafenib exposure increased by 68% 
21/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
(90%  CI  1.27-2.49).  This  was  in  a  cohort  of  only  6  patients,  and  the  Applicant  suggests  that  the 
clinical relevance might be limited, given the relatively high variability of sorafenib. 
Doxorubicin 
In one group of patients (n=5) receiving 400 mg b.i.d. sorafenib, doxorubicin Cmax and AUC increased 
by  103%  (90%  CI  1.27  -  3.26)  and  47%  (90%  CI  1.18  -  1.81),  respectively.  In  a  larger  cohort  of 
patients (n=12) receiving 400 mg b.i.d. sorafenib the increase in doxorubicin AUC was 21% (90% CI 
0.95 - 1.54). Mean AUC of sorafenib increased 22-36% at co-administration of doxorubicin with 100 
or  200  mg  b.i.d.  sorafenib  (n=5  per  dose).  There  was  no  appreciable  change  in  sorafenib  AUC  at 
400 mg b.i.d. sorafenib.  
Gemcitabine 
Gemcitabine is rapidly converted by cytidine deaminase to deoxyfluorouridine (dFdU). Gemcitabine 
levels  were  too  low  to  be  adequately  measured  in  the  study  evaluating  concomitant  treatment  with 
gemcitabine and sorafenib. However, there were no effects of sorafenib on the metabolite dFdU, and 
no  apparent  effects  of  gemcitabine  on  sorafenib  pharmacokinetics,  but  the  variability  in  sorafenib 
concentrations was high.  
Oxaliplatin 
Oxaliplatin  undergoes  rapid  non-enzymatic  biotransformation.  In  small  cohorts  of  patients  receiving 
different  doses  of  sorafenib  together  with  oxaliplatin,  there  were  no  consistent  changes  in  either 
sorafenib or oxaliplatin pharmacokinetics.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacokinetics 
Sorafenib was a low-solubility, high permeability compound. This was consistent with the finding that 
one  single  batch  of  50  mg  tablets  exhibiting  a  slower  in  vitro  dissolution  rate  compared  to  other 
batches  of  tablets  had  a  lower  bioavailability.  In  vitro  studies  indicated  that  sorafenib  is  a  weak  to 
moderate substrate of the efflux transporter P-gp. In cancer patients, across studies, the median Tmax 
was approximately 3 hours (range 0-24 hours). Secondary absorption peaks were observed at 8-12 and 
24 hours postdose, indicating enterohepatic re-circulation.  
The absolute bioavailability is unknown. The bioavailability of the tablet was about 38%-49% of that 
of an oral solution. Doses below 100 mg (solution) and 400 mg (tablet), and b.i.d. dosing increased the 
bioavailability for tablets. The bioavailability was mainly limited by solubility. Solubility of sorafenib 
decreases  at  increased  pH.  The  effect  of  anti-acidic  medicinal  products,  such  as  antacids,  H2-
antagonists  or  proton-pump  inhibitors,  on  sorafenib  bioavailability  has  not  been  studied.  Decreased 
plasma  concentrations  of  sorafenib  cannot  be excluded and, if possible, chronic treatment with anti-
acidic  drugs  should  be  avoided  during  treatment  with  sorafenib  (see  SPC  section  4.4  and  4.5).  The 
applicant  agreed  to  conduct,  post-authorisation,  a  single  dose,  cross-over  PK  study  in  healthy 
volunteers to evaluate the effect of increased gastric pH (anti-acidic medication) on the bioavailability 
of sorafenib (400 mg, single dose).  
Sorafenib bioavailability decreased with a high-fat meal, while there was no impact of a moderate-fat 
meal  (approximately  30%  of  calories  from  fat)  on  sorafenib  bioavailability  compared  to  the  fasted 
state.  It  is  therefore  recommended  that  sorafenib  is  administered  without  food  or  with  a  low  or 
moderate fat meal. If the patient intends to have a high-fat meal, sorafenib tablets should be taken at 
least 1 hour before the meal or at least 2 hours after the meal, and should be swallowed with a glass of 
water (see SPC section 4.2).  
Sorafenib is metabolised primarily in the liver and undergoes oxidative metabolism, mediated by CYP 
3A4, as well as glucuronidation mediated by UGT1A9. Sorafenib accounts for approximately 70-85% 
of  the  circulating  analytes  in  plasma  at  steady  state.  Eight  metabolites  of  sorafenib  have  been 
identified, of which five have been detected in plasma. The main circulating metabolite of sorafenib in 
plasma, the pyridine N-oxide M 2, shows in vitro potency similar to that of sorafenib. This metabolite 
comprises approximately 9-16% of circulating analytes at steady state. The other active metabolites, 
M4 and M5, accounted for 8% and 6%, respectively, of the total exposure at steady state. 
Most  of  the  dose  was  absorbed  and  subsequently  excreted,  either  as  sorafenib  or  as  metabolites. 
Unchanged sorafenib, accounting for 51% of the dose, was found in faeces but not in urine, indicating 
22/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
that biliary excretion of unchanged drug might contribute to the elimination of sorafenib (see section 
5.2  of  the  SPC).  Metabolites  were  mainly  recovered  in  feaces  and  only  in  small  amounts  in  urine. 
Metabolism and biliary excretion of unchanged drug was therefore the major elimination pathways for 
sorafenib. As some of the unchanged drug found in faeces could have been re-formed from excreted 
metabolites, the relative contribution of the two pathways could not be determined. 
Across  studies,  there  was  no  apparent  relationship  between  creatinine  clearance  and  sorafenib 
exposure,  but  no  pharmacokinetic  data  for  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment  was 
presented (CLcrea<60 ml/min). However, since there is no renal excretion of unchanged sorafenib or 
M2, a significant effect of renal function on the exposure is not expected. A specific study in patients 
with  renal  impairment  was  not  considered  necessary,  and  no  dose  adjustment  is  required  in  patients 
with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance >30ml/min). Appropriate information is 
included in the SPC (section 4.2 and 5.2). The SPC also states that no data is available in patients with 
severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) or in patients requiring dialysis. 
Sorafenib pharmacokinetics in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A and 
B) was investigated in a phase II study in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Exposure (calculated 
for 8 hours) was increased in Child-Pugh B compared with Child-Pugh A patients, but the difference 
was not statistically significant. There was no comparison with patients with normal hepatic function 
in this study, but exposure in both groups was within the range observed in other studies (e.g. AUC0-12 
= 48 mg*h/ml in study 100277). The degree of metabolic impairment vs. degree of cholestatis was not 
discussed and the results cannot be extrapolated to cirrhosis patients. However, no dose adjustment is 
required  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  Given  the  hepatic  elimination  of 
sorafenib, a further increase in exposure in patients with severe hepatic impairment would be expected 
(see SPC section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Analyses of demographic data suggested that there is no relationship between pharmacokinetics and 
age (up to 65 years) gender or body weight. Data in elderly were supported by safety data. No specific 
dosing  recommendations  were  considered  necessary  based  on  these  demographic  criteria.  The  mean 
sorafenib  exposure  was  lower  in  Japanese  patients  than  in  Caucasian  patients,  but  the  exposure  was 
highly variable. The clinical relevance of this observation is unknown (see SPC section 5.2).  
Substances that are inducers of enzyme activity (e.g. rifampicin, Hypericum perforatum also known as 
St.  John’s  wort,  phenytoin,  carbamazepine,  phenobarbital,  and  dexamethasone)  may  increase 
metabolism of sorafenib via CYP3A4 and UGT1A9 and thus decrease sorafenib concentrations. These 
drugs should only be administered concomitantly after careful benefit-risk evaluation (see SPC section 
4.4  and  4.5).  The  results  of  a  drug-drug  interaction  study  with  rifampicin  will  be  provided  post-
authorisation.  Ketoconazole,  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  administered  once  daily  for  7  days  to 
healthy male volunteers did not alter the mean AUC of a single 50 mg dose of sorafenib. These data 
suggest  that  clinical pharmacokinetic interactions of sorafenib with CYP3A4 inhibitors are unlikely. 
Sorafenib  inhibited  CYP2C9  in  vitro.  It  cannot  be  excluded  that  sorafenib  may  increase  the 
concentrations of concomitantly administered substrates of CYP2C9. The concomitant treatment with 
sorafenib and warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, did not result in changes in mean PT-INR compared to 
placebo.  However,  patients  taking  warfarin  or  phenprocoumon  should  have  their  INR  checked 
regularly.  Sorafenib  inhibited  CYP2B6  and  CYP2C8  in  vitro,  but  the  clinical  relevance  of  this 
inhibition has not been evaluated. It cannot be excluded that sorafenib may increase the concentrations 
of  concomitantly  administered  substrates  of  CYP2B6  (e.g.  bupropion,  cyclophosphamide,  efavirenz, 
ifosfamide,  methadone)  and  CYP2C8  (e.g.  paclitaxel,  amodiaquine,  repaglinide).  In  vitro,  sorafenib 
inhibited  glucuronidation  via  UGT1A1  and  UGT1A9.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this  finding  is 
unknown  (see  SPC  section  4.5).  Caution  is  recommended  when  administering  sorafenib  with 
compounds that are metabolised/eliminated predominantly by UGT1A1 (e.g. irinotecan) or UGT1A9 
pathway  (see  SPC  section  4.4).  Concomitant  administration  of  sorafenib  and  midazolam, 
dextromethorphan  or  omeprazole,  which  are  substrates  for  cytochromes  CYP3A4,  CYP2D6  and 
CYP2C19,  respectively,  did  not  alter  the  exposure  of  these  agents.  This  indicates  that  sorafenib  is 
neither  an  inhibitor  nor  an  inducer  of  these  cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes.  Therefore,  clinical 
pharmacokinetic interactions of sorafenib with substrates of these enzymes were considered unlikely. 
CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4  activities  were  not  increased  after  treatment  of  cultured  human  hepatocytes 
with  sorafenib,  indicating  that  sorafenib  is  unlikely  to  be  an  inducer  of  CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4.  In 
vitro,  sorafenib  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  the  transport  protein  p-glycoprotein  (P-gp).  Increased 
23/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
plasma concentrations of P-gp substrates such as digoxin cannot be excluded at concomitant treatment 
with  sorafenib  (see  SPC  section  4.4  and  5.4).  Sorafenib  had  no  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
gemcitabine  or  oxaliplatin.  Concomitant  treatment  with  sorafenib  resulted  in  a  21%  increase  in  the 
AUC  of  doxorubicin.  When  administered  with  irinotecan,  whose  active  metabolite  SN-38  is  further 
metabolised by the UGT1A1 pathway, there was a 67 - 120% increase in the AUC of SN-38 and a 26 - 
42%  increase  in  the  AUC  of  irinotecan.  The  clinical  significance  of  these  findings  is  unknown  (see 
clinical efficacy section, and SPC section 4.4). 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Sorafenib  was  developed  as  an  inhibitor  of  C-Raf  (IC50  =  2  nM),  but  also  inhibited  wild  type  and 
mutant  B-Raf  (IC50  =  25  and  38  nM)  in  vitro.  In  addition,  sorafenib  inhibited  the  receptor  tyrosine 
kinases  for  VEGFR-2,  VEGFR-3,  PDGFβ,  c-KIT  and  FLT3.  Based  on  in  these  properties,  dual 
patterns of activity are possible: growth inhibition and anti-angiogenesis. 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
There were no specific studies conducted in patients with RCC. Exploratory data were submitted from 
a single arm study conducted in patients with hepatocellular cancer (HCC). A number of biomarkers 
were  explored,  including  phosphorylated  ERK  in  tumour  tissue,  plasma  HER-2/neu,  plasma 
proteomics  and  blood  cell  RNA  expression  pattern.  Higher  intensity  (immune  histochemistry)  of 
tumour pERK at baseline was correlated with longer time to tumour progression (p=0.00034, n=33). 
No correlation between baseline plasma HER-2/neu and response to sorafenib was seen. Twenty five 
proteomics components (mass spectroscopy) were found to differentiate between responders (PR, SD) 
and  non-responders  (PD).  Based  on  data  from  30  patients  a  panel  of  18  genes  was  identified 
(Affymetrix  GeneChip  microarray)  as  differentiating  between  responders  (PR,  SD)  and  non-
responders (PD). 
To  investigate  the  relationships  between  tumour  levels  of  pERK  and  sorafenib  associated  patients 
outcome in RCC patients (study 11213), immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to semi-quantitatively 
examine pERK levels in pre-treatment tumour biopsies. The maximum tumour staining intensity was 
graded on a standard IHC scale (neg = no staining, 1+ = weak staining, 2+ = moderate staining, 3+ = 
strong  staining,  4+  =  intense  staining).    The  percent  nuclei  stained  was  assigned  on  a  quartile  basis 
(<5% = 0-5% nuclei stained, 1Q = 6-25% nuclei stained, 2Q = 26-50% nuclei stained, 3Q = 51-75% 
nuclei stained, 4Q = 76-100% nuclei stained). Paraffin-embedded tumour samples from 146 patients 
were  subjected  to  pERK  staining  followed  by  pathologist’s  interpretation.  Of  these,  appropriately 
prepared  samples  with  sufficient  material,  pERK  results,  associated  patient  data,  and  antitumour 
activity data were available for only 125 patients (of the 903 subjects randomized in this trial). Patients 
were grouped based on percent nuclei expressing pERK (1Q vs. 2Q to 4Q), and also based on tumour 
staining intensity (Neg. to 3+ vs. 4+).  These groupings separate those with high level staining from 
those with low level staining, and the ability to perform statistical analyses based on the numbers of 
samples available within each group. An analysis of PFS (using investigator assessed PFS) based on 
pERK staining is shown in table 6. Results related to survival were similar (data not shown). 
24/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 - Analysis of PFS based on pre-treatment tumour pERK staining 
Median PFS (Days) 
Hazard Ratio 
(sorafenib/placebo) 
95% CI 
Sorafenib  Estimate 
# 
Events 
# 
Censored 
N 
76 
49 
776 
Tumour % Expressing  
pERK % 
expressing 
unknown 
pERK % 
expressing 1Q 
pERK % 
expressing 2Q, 3Q, 
4Q 
Tumour Staining Intensity  
pERK staining 
intensity 
unknown 
pERK staining 
intensity Neg, 
1+, 2+, 3+ 
pERK staining 
intensity 4+ 
776 
29 
96 
506 
57 
41 
506 
25 
73 
270 
19 
8 
270 
4 
23 
Placebo 
84 
96 
84 
84 
88 
86 
168 
184 
126 
0.53 
(0.44, 0.63) 
0.49 
(0.29, 0.84) 
0.66 
(0.34, 1.25) 
168 
0.53 
(0.44, 0.63) 
200 
166 
0.52 
(0.23, 1.18) 
0.59 
(0.37, 0.94) 
VEGF and sVEGFR-2 levels were analyzed in plasma samples from study 11213 using 
immunoassays. The results are presented in table 7. 
Table 7: Analysis of PFS based on baseline plasma VEGF levels in patients from study 11213 
Baseline VEGF 
Median PFS (Days)    Hazard Ratio (sorafenib/placebo) 
Status 
N 
Placebo 
VEGF ≤ 131 pg/mL 
VEGF > 131 pg/mL 
356 
356 
100 
83 
Sorafeni
b 
168 
167 
Estimate 
95% CI 
0.64 
0.48 
(0.49, 0.83) 
(0.38, 0.62) 
p-value* 
0.096 
* comparison of the hazard ratio of sorafenib to placebo between low-level and high-level baseline VEGF groups 
Inactivating  somatic  mutations  of  the  VHL  gene  are  frequently  found  in  RCC.  The  resulting 
inactivation of the VHL protein leads to an increase in tumour VEGF activity through upregulation of 
hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α). This increase in VEGF, mediated by VHL inactivation, leads 
to activation of VEGFR-2, which contributes to tumour angiogenesis. Given this relationship between 
VHL  and  angiogenesis,  the  relationship  between  VHL  mutational  status  and  sorafenib  antitumour 
activity was investigated. DNA was isolated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumour samples, 
subjected to the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in order to amplify each of the three exons encoding 
the VHL gene, and the amplified DNA was sequenced. A total of 141 samples from 134 patients had 
sequence data for at least 1 exon that could be utilized for analysis. Among the 48 subjects from whom 
all 3 exons were sequenced successfully, 15 (31.3%) had VHL mutations. Analysis of VHL mutational 
status  and  sorafenib  antitumour  activity  is  provided  in  the  table  below.  The  correlative  analyses  of 
mutational  status  and  PFS  or  OS  were  performed  assuming  that  all  nucleotide  changes  in  the  VHL 
gene are equivalent.   
25/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table 8: Analysis of PFS based on VHL mutation status in a subset of patients in Study 11213 
# Events 
# Censored 
Placebo 
Sorafenib 
Estimate 
95% CI 
Median PFS (Days) 
Hazard Ratio (sorafenib/placebo) 
Exon 1  
No Mutation 
Mutation 
Missing 
Exon 2  
No Mutation 
Mutation 
Missing 
Exon 3  
No Mutation 
Mutation 
Missing 
Exon 1, 2 or 3* 
No Mutation 
Mutation 
Missing 
N 
90 
26 
72 
20 
785 
512 
72 
11 
57 
10 
818 
537 
88 
3 
68 
3 
810 
533 
33 
35 
24 
28 
833 
552 
18 
6 
273 
15 
1 
281 
20 
0 
277 
9 
7 
281 
79 
45 
84 
75 
178 
84 
84 
141 
84 
79 
97 
84 
166 
165 
169 
126 
143 
169 
126 
402 
169 
167 
165 
168 
0.55 
0.39 
0.53 
0.45 
0.89 
0.54 
(0.34, 0.89) 
(0.15, 1.04) 
(0.45, 0.63) 
(0.26, 0.77) 
(0.24, 3.34) 
(0.45, 0.64) 
0.62 
(0.38, 1.00) 
0.52 
(0.44, 0.62) 
0.52 
0.49 
0.54 
(0.23, 1.19) 
(0.22, 1.08) 
(0.45, 0.63) 
*patients that contained a mutation in any one exon were considered to have mutant VHL, even if one or more exons 
from that patient had not been sequenced. However, patients were only considered to have a wild-type VHL gene if all 3 
exons had been successfully sequenced and all 3 exons contained no mutation.   
Secondary pharmacology 
Dermatologic  events,  including  rash  and  hand-foot  skin  reaction,  were  the  most  common  adverse 
events  attributed  to  sorafenib  in  clinical  studies  (see  clinical  safety  sections).  Investigation  of  the 
association  between  clinical  efficacy  and  dermatologic  toxicity  was  based  on  PFS  (according  to 
investigator  assessment  in  study  11213)  analysis  by  presence  or  absence  of  rash  and  hand  foot 
syndrome.  The  number  of  placebo  patients  with  rash  was  16%  versus  40%  in  the  sorafenib  group. 
Median  PFS  in  placebo  patients  with  rash  was  125  days  versus  83  days  in  placebo  patients  without 
rash.  PFS  was  analyzed  for  patients  with  or  without  a  first  report  of  rash  in  cycle  1  or  2.  PFS  was 
similar in patients receiving placebo who had a rash in cycle 1 or 2 (85 days) and those who did not 
have rash in cycle 1 or 2 (83 days), in patients receiving sorafenib PFS was 219 days in patients with a 
rash  in  cycle  1  or  2  vs.  164  days  for  patients  with  no  rash  in  cycle  1  or  2.  Analyses  were  also 
performed with PFS and hand-foot skin reaction. Hand-foot skin reaction was reported in 134 (29.7%) 
patients in the sorafenib group and 30 (6.7%) patients in the placebo group. Median PFS in sorafenib 
treated patients was found to be 181 days in patients with reaction versus 167 in those without.    
Trough  plasma  sorafenib  concentrations,  defined  as  concentrations  between  9  and  15  hours  after 
administration of the previous dose, were evaluated as function of hypertension. Trough concentration 
data  were  evaluable  in  67  patients  of  the  451  treated  with  sorafenib.  Hand-foot  skin  reaction  was 
reported in 10 (28.6%) patients with sorafenib concentrations < 3.2 mg/l and 12 (37.5%) patients with 
sorafenib  concentrations  ≥  3.2  mg/l.  Rash  was  reported  in  9  (25.7%)  patients  with  sorafenib 
concentrations < 3.2 mg/l and 9 (28.1%) patients with sorafenib concentrations ≥ 3.2 mg/l. 
In  a  pooled  analysis  of  179  patients  from  4  dose  escalation  studies,  hand-foot  skin  reaction  was 
reported  in  45  (25%)  patients  and  rash  was  reported  in  32  (18%)  patients.  The  frequency  of 
dermatologic events correlated with dose and dermatologic events were most common in doses ≥ 400 
mg bid.  
In  study  11213,  hypertension  was  reported  as  an  adverse  event  in  76  (16.9%)  patients  receiving 
sorafenib  and  8  (1.8%)  patients  receiving  placebo.  Even  in  patients  in  whom  hypertension  was  not 
reported as an adverse event, blood pressure tended to increase within the first 3 weeks of sorafenib 
therapy.  Mean  change  in  systolic  blood  pressure  at  day  21  of  cycle  1  was  8.0  mmHg  in  sorafenib 
patients  and  0  mmHg  in  placebo  patients.  The  relationship  between  hypertension  and  efficacy  was 
26/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigated  based  on  investigator-assessed  PFS  data  from  study  11213  analyzed  by  blood  pressure 
data  (see  also  clinical  safety  section).  Post-baseline  hypertension  [defined  as  systolic  blood pressure 
(SBP) ≥ 160 mmHg] was reported in 170 sorafenib-treated patients and 73 patients receiving placebo 
(see table 9).   
Table 9 - Progression-free survival analyzed by systolic blood pressure (SBP ≥ 160 mmHg)        
Treatment 
Group 
SBP ≥160 
mmHg 
N 
Number Failed 
Number 
Censored 
Median PFS 
(Days) 
Sorafenib  
Placebo 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
170 
270 
73 
356 
89 
176 
43 
273 
81 
94 
30 
83 
224 
139 
172 
78 
Progression-Free  Survival  in  sorafenib-treated  patients  was  analyzed  by  presence  or  absence  of 
hypertension  in  cycle  1.  Trough  concentration  data  were  evaluable  in  only  67  patients  of  the  451 
treated with sorafenib. Pharmacokinetic exposure and hypertension adverse events  reported from in 
study  11213  were  presented  (data  not shown). Measurements of circulating concentration of VEGF, 
catecholamines,  epinephrine,  norepinephrine,  endothelin  I,  urotensin  I,  urotensin  II,  rennin,  and 
aldosterone  were  performed  at  baseline  and  after  3  weeks  of  therapy.  There  were  no  significant 
changes in the levels of these vasoactive, renal, and angiogenic factors and there was no correlation of 
levels of these factors with blood pressure.  
No  PK/PD  modelling  data  from  the  pivotal  RCC  study  were  provided.  No  pharmacodynamic 
interactions studies with other medicinal products or substances were conducted.  
Discussion on clinical pharmacodynamics 
The observation from the phase III study 11213 that baseline tumour pERK levels are not predictive of 
sorafenib antitumour activity in RCC patients complemented the results from an uncontrolled phase II 
study  of  sorafenib  in  RCC  patients  in  which  a  lack  of  correlation  was  observed  between  pERK 
staining and time to progression (TTP) (n=64). Without control arm, it was not possible in a phase II 
trial  to  determine  whether  an  observed  correlation  was  predictive  of  sorafenib  treatment  efficacy  or 
simply indicative of a prognostic baseline biomarker. Taken together, these limited phase II and phase 
III  data  suggested  that  baseline  tumour  pERK  levels  may  not  be  prognostic  in  RCC  patients  nor 
predictive of sorafenib antitumour activity in RCC. In contrast, in a limited number of samples from 
an  uncontrolled  phase  II  study  of  sorafenib  in  hepatocellular  carcinoma  (HCC)  patients,  pERK 
staining intensity showed a significant correlation with TTP (n=33). Most patients assayed from study 
11213 had similar pERK levels as described by the semi-quantitative 5-point scales utilized (i.e. >70% 
of patients had a maximum staining intensity of 4+, and almost 70% of patients had <50% of tumour 
cell nuclei stained). This lack of differentiation may represent a true lack of diversity among the RCC 
tumour  population  tested.  Alternatively,  the  lack  of  differentiation  may  suggest  that  a  finer  scale  of 
IHC quantitation is necessary in order to effectively differentiate sub-populations of RCC tumours.   
Patients  with  either  high  baseline  VEGF  or  low  baseline  VEGF  benefited  from  sorafenib  treatment. 
However,  the  data  suggested  poorer  prognosis  for  patients  with  high  baseline  VEGF  and  a  trend 
towards  greater  improvement  in  PFS  for  high  VEGF  subjects  upon  sorafenib  treatment.  Baseline 
levels  of  plasma  sVEGFR-2  did  not  show  a  significant  relationship  to  sorafenib  treatment  effect  as 
measured  by  progression-free  survival  (PFS)  or  overall  survival  (OS).  Mean  plasma  VEGF  levels 
increased  significantly  from  baseline  to  treatment  cycle 1  day  21  and  from  baseline  to  treatment 
cycle 3 day 1 in the sorafenib-treated group (31.7% and 47.0% increase, respectively). Concurrently, 
mean  sVEGFR-2  levels  decreased  significantly  (17.8%,  and  23.9%,  respectively).    No  significant 
changes  were  observed  for  VEGF  and  sVEGFR-2  levels  in  the  placebo  group.  Altogether,  baseline 
VEGF did not appear as an important predictor of sorafenib activity. The applicant agreed to submit 
further data on biomarkers (including proteomics, metabolomics) post-approval.   
Limited  data  suggest  that  DNA  level  tumour  VHL  mutational  status  is  not  predictive  of  sorafenib 
antitumour activity.  These limited data did not support patient selection for sorafenib treatment based 
on  this  biomarker.  The  relationship  between  mutation  and  loss  of  VHL  protein  function  has  not  yet 
been  investigated.  However  VHL  mutations  have  been  reported  as  typifying  for  Clear  Cell  RCC, 
therefore  “silent”  mutations  are  unlikely  to  be  common.  Further  analyses  are  ongoing  to  determine 
27/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
which  of  these  nucleotide  changes  result  in  changes  to  the  VHL  protein,  and,  furthermore,  which 
protein level changes may result in loss of VHL protein function. Amplification of receptors activating 
the  MAPK  pathway  and  mutations  in  MAPK  pathway  components  associated  with  constitutive 
activation were not investigated.  
For a multitargeted agent, a combination of signs and biomarkers, such as VEGF levels prior to and on 
therapy,  might  be  needed  to  optimise  the  predictive  value.  Inhibition  of  angiogenesis  has  been 
associated with hypertension, particularly in patients treated with inhibitors of the vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF) pathway [39]. 
The  relationship  between  sorafenib  exposure  (dose,  AUC,  Cmax)  and  response  (inhibition  of  cellular 
proliferation, clinical toxicity, anti-tumour activity) were evaluated in phase I studies at doses of 100, 
200, 300, 400, 600 and 800 mg bid. Increasing the dose from 400 to 600 mg bid did not increase the 
mean systemic exposure to sorafenib (13% in terms of  AUC(0-12),ss) yet significantly increased clinical 
toxicities. There was a trend towards increasing adverse events with dose, while there was no apparent 
relationship  between  steady  state  sorafenib  AUC(0-12),ss  or  Cmax  values  and  the  grade  of  drug-related 
adverse events at the 400 mg bid dose-level.  
A  relationship  between  dose  and  dermatologic  events  was  observed.  However,  at  the  recommended 
dose (400 mg bid), the relationship between trough concentrations and skin reactions was weak. This 
observation was supported by plots of individual patient trough level data versus skin reactions (data 
not shown). The validity of the assessment of relationship between concentration and activity relies on 
the  assumption 
to  any  dose 
reductions/interruptions.  Rash  (data  from  the  two  first  treatment  cycles),  hypertension  and  higher 
trough levels in sorafenib treated patients was moderately predictive of prolonged PFS. This was not 
the case for hand-foot reactions. These observations were based on limited PK data. 
There were no significant changes in the levels of vasoactive, renal, and angiogenic factors and there 
was  no  correlation  of  levels  of  these  factors with blood pressure. A direct effect on the vasculature, 
possibly through endothelial cell function, was considered more likely than a humoral or renovascular 
mechanism for sorafenib-associated hypertension. Overall, considering the small sample size and the 
large  number  of  patients  who  did  not  have  PK  samples  collected,  definitive  conclusions  on  the 
predictive  value  of  biomarkers  could  not  be  drawn.  However,  despite  the  large  inter-individual 
variability in pharmacokinetics, no apparent relationship between exposure and dermatologic events, 
hypertension, or PFS was observed. Available systemic exposure data, although very limited, did not 
suggest any implications for the use of sorafenib in patients with renal cell carcinoma.   
that  concentration  data  derive 
from  samples 
taken  prior 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Seven multiple dosing regimens/schedules studies were conducted. In these studies, 197 patients were 
exposed to sorafenib. The following schedules were investigated: 1 week on / 3 weeks off, 3 weeks on 
/  1  week  off,  4  weeks  on  /  1  week  off,  once  weekly  to  continuous  dosing.  Tolerability  was  used  as 
activity  marker  aiming  at  defining  a  tolerated  dose.  Based  on  these  data,  400  mg  bid  continuous 
dosing was proposed for the assessment of efficacy in the pivotal studies. 
•  Main studies  
Two study reports of controlled clinical studies pertinent to the claimed indication were submitted. 
Study 11213 was a phase III randomized, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate sorafenib in patients with 
advanced RCC who had received one prior systemic anticancer treatment [40]. 
Study  10039  was  a  phase  II  randomized,  placebo-controlled  discontinuation  trial  in  patients  with 
advanced, refractory solid tumours.   
Study 11213 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
28/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was a randomised, placebo-controlled, multicentre clinical trial. The main inclusion criteria were 
adult  patients  with  life  expectancy  ≥  12  weeks;  histologically  or  cytologically  documented 
unresectable and/or metastatic measurable RCC (excluding rare subtypes of RCC, e.g. pure papillary 
cell tumour, mixed tumour containing predominantly sarcomatoid cells, Bellini carcinoma, medullary 
carcinoma  or  chromophobe  oncocytic  tumours);  no  more  than  one  systemic  therapy  for  advanced 
disease, during or after which the patient experienced disease progression (prior treatment must have 
been completed at least 30 days before but not more that 8 months prior to randomisation); at least 1 
unidimensional measurable lesion by computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI)  according  to  Response  Evaluation  Criteria  in  Solid  Tumour  (RECIST);  risk  rated  “low”  or 
“intermediate” according to Motzer score; performance status 0 or 1 according to Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology  Group  (ECOG)  scale;  total  bilirubine  <  4.5  x  upper  limit  of  normal  (ULN),  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) < 2.5 x ULN, amylase and lipase < 1.5 
x ULN, serum creatinine < 2.0 x ULN, prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time < 2.5 x 
ULN. 
Treatments 
Patients  were  administered  either  sorafenib  400mg  +  best  supportive  care  (BSC)  or  placebo  +  BSC 
twice daily on a continuous basis, without food or with a moderate fat meal. For the purpose of data 
recording,  the  treatment  period  was  divided  into  6-week  cycles  for  the  first  24  weeks;  thereafter  a 
cycle  was  defined  as  8  weeks.  Treatment  continued  until  patients  reached  one  of  the  criteria  or 
withdrawal. Crossover from placebo at time of progression was not accepted. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy (survival) of sorafenib as compared with placebo. 
The secondary objectives were to evaluate the efficacy by progression-free survival (PFS), response 
rate  (CR  or  PR),  changes  in  health-related  quality  of  life  (HRQOL)  and  symptom  response.  Other 
objectives were duration of response, predictive value of pERK, HER-2, VEGF, plasma proteomics, 
gene expression profiling in blood cells and tumour biopsies. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary outcome, overall survival, was defined as the time elapsed from randomization to death 
(from  any  cause).  All  randomized  (ITT  population)  was  included  in  the  analyasis  of  the  primary 
endpoint. Patients still alive at the time of the analysis were censored at their last date of follow-up.  
The  secondary  outcome  measures  included  PFS  defined  as  the  time  from  randomization  to  disease 
progression  (radiological  or  clinical,  whichever  was  earlier)  or  death  (if  death  occurred  before 
progression).  Patients  without  tumour  progression  or  death  at  the  time  of  analysis  were  censored  at 
their last date of tumour evaluation. PFS was primarily analysed by independent radiological review. 
Estimate of the objective tumour response rates (confirmed CR and PR according to RESICT criteria) 
Confirmation scan for tumour responses assessed as CR or PR was to be conducted on day 1 of the 
next cycle, as long as it was at least 4 weeks after the first scan. The objective response rates were to 
be  compared  between  treatment  groups  using  Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel  test  adjusting  for  prognostic 
group (intermediate or low) and country.   
Sample size 
Sample  size  was  based  on  the  primary  endpoint  of  overall  survival.  A  clinically  meaningful 
improvement  was  defined  as  a  33.3%  increase  in  overall  survival.  Assuming  a  2-sided  α  of  0.04,  a 
total  of  540  events  are  required  to  achieve  90%  power  if  one  interim  and  one  final  analysis  are 
performed during this study. 
The final analysis was to be performed (mature overall survival) when 540 events have been observed, 
if the stopping rule has not been met at the interim analysis. 
The  expected  study  duration  was  estimated  at  29  months  assuming  patients  enroll  at  a  rate  of  50 
patients per month, an exponentially distributed event time, a 12 month median time for the control 
group and a 17 month long enrollment for a total of 856 subjects in the 2 treatment groups combined 
(428  subjects  in  each  arm).  Assuming  a  3%  rate  for  patients  lost  to  follow-up,  approximately  884 
patients were to be randomized.  
29/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
About 270 deaths (number of events required for the first interim analysis on overall survival) were 
expected  in  about  17  months.  The  planned  final  analysis  of  the  secondary  PFS  endpoint  was  to  be 
performed  when  approximately  363  progressions  were  observed.  This  analysis,  presented  in  this 
report, would have power of 90% to detect a 50% increase in PFS at the 1% significant level (two-
sided).  Assuming  a  median  PFS  for  the  control  arm  of  4.5  months,  the  363  progressions  were 
projected to occur in approximately 13 to 14 months from the initiation of the trial.  
Randomisation 
Randomisation  (central)  was  stratified  by  country  (19  countries,  including  9  EU  countries)  and 
prognostic  risk  category  according  to  Motzer  criteria  [poor  ECOG  (PS≥2),  high  serum  lactate 
dehydrogenase  (≥1.5xUNL),  low  serum  hemoglobin,  high  corrected  serum  calcium  (≥10  mg/dl), 
absence of prior nephrectomy].  
Blinding (masking) 
The active and placebo tablets were identical in appearance. Medication containers were labeled with 
unique bottle numbers, which were to be assigned to patients using the IVRS. Copies of an unblinded 
randomization code, in the form of individual sealed envelopes for each patient, were provided to each 
investigator. Envelopes could be opened by the investigator (preferably in consultation with a sponsor 
representative) if knowledge of a patient’s treatment became necessary for the clinical management of 
that  patient.  Unblinding  after  disease  progression  for  entry  into  the  open-label  phase  of  the  study 
proceeded via the IVRS rather than with the blinded code envelopes. 
Statistical methods 
In the primary analysis, the two treatment groups was compared using a two-sided log-rank test with 
an overall α of 0.04 stratified by country and Motzer risk factor (see randomisation section). Kaplan-
Meier survival curves were also to be displayed. An α spending function was to be used to account for 
interim analysis(es) to ensure that the overall false positive rate, α , is less that or equal to 0.04.  
The planned final analysis on the secondary PFS endpoint was to be performed when approximately 
363 progressions or deaths are observed.  
The  best  overall  response  rates  will  be  compared  between  treatment  groups  using  the  two-sided 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test adjusting for country and Motzer risk category at the 0.05 α level. 
Patient-reported  outcomes  (PRO)  data  were  collected  at  day  1  of  each  cycle,  and  at  the  end  of 
treatment visit, prior to seeing the physician. HRQOL assessment was based on two PRO instruments: 
the  Functional  Assessment  of  Cancer  Therapy-Kidney  Symptom  Index  (FKSI)  to  assess  kidney 
cancer-related symptoms, and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT–G). The 
primary  endpoint  was  the  longitudinal  evolution  of  mean  score  over  the  first  5  treatment  cycles. 
Treatment  differences  were  evaluated  by  random  coefficient.  Treatment  and  Motzer  score  were 
factors,  and  relative  day  and  baseline  measure  of  the  response  variable  were  covariates  in  these 
models. Pattern mixture models were used to evaluate the robustness of the results from the random 
coefficient model.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
At the time of the data cutoff for the PFS analysis, 976 patients were enrolled, 769 were randomized 
and  768  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  medication.  All  769  patients  were  included  in  the  ITT 
population, all but 1 patient were included in the safety population. There were 207 patients enrolled 
as of 28 January 2005 data cutoff date who were not randomized: 164 of these patients were screening 
failures (more than one prior therapy, prior therapy completed outside of the protocol window, brain 
metastases).  The  remaining  43  patients  were  still  in screening as of the data cutoff date. Of the 768 
patients  treated,  384 (50%)  were  randomized  to  placebo  and  384 (50%)  to  sorafenib.  By  the  data 
cutoff  date  for  the  PFS  analysis,  226 (58.9%)  patients  receiving  placebo  and  144 (37.5%)  patients 
receiving sorafenib had discontinued treatment. The most common reason for discontinuing treatment 
are provided in table 10.  
Table  10:  Reasons  for  discontinuation  of  double  blind  therapy  as  per  the  investigator  (randomised 
patients) – Study 11213 
sorafenib (n=384) 
placebo (n=385) 
30/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
Discontinued double blind therapy 
Adverse events 
Non-compliant with medication 
Progression by clinical judgement 
Radiological progression 
Consent withdrawn 
Lost to follow-up 
Death 
Missing 
144 (37.5%) 
13 
0 
14 
103 
3 
1 
7 
3 
226 (58.9%) 
14 
1 
22 
174 
7 
4 
3 
1 
Conduct of the study 
Six amendments of the protocol were made during the study. The first dealt with modifications to PFS 
analysis,  survival  analysis  and  biological  modifiers,  before  patients  were  enrolled.  The  second 
included clarifications of the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Amendment 3 involved the monitoring 
of  congenital  nevi  and  histopathological  effects  of  sorafenib  on  the  skin.  Amendment  4  involved 
functional  imaging  of  tumour  vascularisation.  Amendment  5  was  approved  when  632  patients  had 
been enrolled, and included the following revisions: clarification of timing and requirements for pre-
study  tumour  tissue  samples,  correction  of  number  of  events  required  for  analysis,  clarification  on 
reporting of adverse events and serious adverse events, and correction to exclusion criteria clarifying 
that patients may not have had previous therapy for RCC within the past 30 days but no longer than 8 
months prior to randomisation. Amendment 6 was approved after all patients had been enrolled and 
specified  that  patients  were  to  be  unblinded  and  placebo  patients  would  be given the opportunity to 
cross over to sorafenib. 
Baseline data 
Prior therapy for RCC Baseline, demographic and diseases characteristics are shown in table 11 and 
12.  About  80%  of  the  study  population  received  systemic  therapy  with  palliative  intent,  about  20% 
adjuvant therapy. More than 70% of patients were less than 65 year old with good performance status 
and relatively good prognosis.  
31/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
Table 11 - Baseline demographic and diseases characteristics in study 11213 (ITT population)  
Characteristics  
  Male 
  Female 
Age Group, n (%) 
  <65 
  ≥65 
ECOG Performance Status, n (%) 
  0 
  1 
  2 
  Missing 
Motzer Risk Factors, n (%) 
  Low 
Intermediate 
RCC Subtype, n (%) 
  Clear Cell 
  Papillary subtype 
  Other Variant 
  Missing 
Duration of Disease (years) 
  Mean (Range) 
  Median 
Duration of Metastatic Disease (years) 
  Mean (Range) 
  Median 
sorafenib 
N = 384 
placebo 
N = 385 
(%) 
(69.5) 
(30.2) 
(66.4) 
(33.1) 
(47.9) 
(49.7) 
(1.6) 
(0.8) 
(52.1) 
(47.9) 
(98.2) 
(0.3) 
(0.3) 
(1.3) 
(0.1-19.4) 
(0.1-11.4) 
n 
287 
98 
280 
103 
180 
201 
1 
3 
194 
191 
380 
3 
1 
1 
3.3 
1.9 
1.3 
0.9 
(%) 
(74.5) 
(25.5) 
(72.7) 
(26.8) 
(46.8) 
(52.2) 
(0.3) 
(0.8) 
(50.4) 
(49.6) 
(98.7) 
(0.8)  
(0.3) 
(0.3) 
(0.1-19.9) 
(0-10.2) 
n 
267 
116 
255 
127 
184 
191 
6 
3 
200 
184 
377 
1 
1 
5 
2.8 
1.6 
1.3 
0.9 
Table 12 - Prior therapy for RCC in study 11213 (ITT population) 
Characteristic 
sorafenib 
N = 384 
placebo 
N = 385 
Type of Therapy 
Nephrectomy 
Systemic Anticancer Therapy 
Radiation Therapy 
Type of Systemic Anticancer Therapy 
Interferon 
Interleukin (IL-2) 
Pyrimidine analogues 
Vinca alkaloids 
Progesterone agents 
Investigational drugs 
Intent of Systemic Anticancer Therapy 
Palliative therapy 
Adjuvant therapy 
Neoadjuvant therapy 
Intent not reported 
No palliative therapy 
Intent of Cytokine Therapy 
IL-2 and/or Interferon, any Intent 
Palliative IL-2 and/or Interferon 
Adjuvant IL-2 and/or Interferon  
Neoadjuvant IL-2 and/or Interferon 
Intent not reported 
Outcomes and estimation 
n 
356 
381 
108 
260 
168 
60 
44 
25 
12 
315 
65 
2 
11 
60 
319 
257 
58 
2 
8 
(%) 
(92.7) 
(99.2) 
(28.1) 
(67.7) 
(43.8) 
(15.6) 
(11.5) 
(6.5) 
(3.1) 
(82.0) 
(16.9) 
(0.5) 
(2.9) 
(15.6) 
(83.1) 
(67.2) 
(15.1) 
(0.5) 
(2.1) 
n 
362 
382 
90 
264 
170 
72 
49 
25 
23 
304 
80 
5 
9 
73 
313 
247  
66  
3  
8  
(%) 
(94.0) 
(99.2) 
(23.4) 
(68.6) 
(44.2) 
(18.7) 
(12.7) 
(6.5) 
(6.0) 
(79.0) 
(20.7) 
(1.3) 
(2.3) 
(19.0) 
(81.3) 
(64.2) 
(17.1) 
(0.8) 
(2.1) 
32/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Progression free survival  
There  were  no  meaningful  differences  in  time  from  randomization  to  tumour  evaluations  (or  scans) 
between the two treatment groups.  The median time to first scan was 41 days for placebo and 42 days 
for sorafenib. The median time to the second scan was 84 days for both groups.  
Median PFS was 84 days for patients randomised to placebo and 167 days for patients randomised to 
sorafenib. The stratified log-rank test had a two-sided p-value < 0.000001 (see table 13). The Kaplan-
Meier curves for PFS by treatment group are shown in figure 1. 
Table 13 - Progression-free survival, in phase III renal cell carcinoma study 11213  
Total failed 
Total censored 
Median PFS (days) 
95% confidence interval for median 
Hazard ratio (sorafenib/placebo) 
95% confidence interval for hazard ratio 
sorafenib 
(N = 384) 
147 (38.3%) 
237 (61.7%) 
167 
(139, 174) 
placebo 
(N = 385) 
195 (50.6%) 
190 (49.4%) 
84 
(78, 91) 
0.44 (p<0.000001) 
(0.35, 0.55) 
Figure 1 - Progression-free survival, in phase III renal cell carcinoma study 11213 
1.00
n
o
i
t
c
n
u
F
n
o
i
t
u
b
i
r
t
s
i
D
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
sorafenib
placebo
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Days From Randomization
STRATA:
treatment=Placebo
treatment=Sorafenib
Censored treatment=Placebo
Censored treatment=Sorafenib
Survival  
First interim analysis (31 May 2005) 
A total of 903 patients (451 in the sorafenib group and 452 in the placebo group) were enrolled in the 
study  at  the  time  of  the  survival  analysis.  The  distribution  of  baseline  demographics  and  patients 
characteristics was similar to that seen at the time of the PFS analysis conducted when 769 patients 
were  enrolled.  At  the  time  of  analysis  there  were  a  total  of  220  deaths  reported  (123 in the placebo 
group and 97 in patients treated with sorafenib). The hazard ratio was 0.72 (p=0.018, two-sided log-
rank, stratified by country and Motzer category; 95% CI: 0.55, 0.95). The median survival was 14.7 
months in the placebo group. The median OS had not been reached for the sorafenib group. 
33/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Response rate 
As  defined  in  the  protocol,  the  first  post-baseline  tumour  evaluation  was  performed  at  the  end  of 
cycle 1 (6 weeks post randomization). There were 97 patients (49 in the sorafenib group and 48 in the 
placebo  group)  randomized  within  6  weeks  of  the  data  cut-off  and  consequently  did  not  have  the 
opportunity  to  undergo  a  post-baseline  tumour  evaluation.  The  status  of  patients  with  regard  to 
analysis of tumour response is detailed in table 14. 
Table 14 - Overall best confirmed tumour response in phase III renal cell carcinoma study 11213 
Best Response 
Complete response (CR) 
Parcial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Progressive disease (PD) 
Not Evaluated 
sorafenib 
N = 335 
n (%) 
0 (0) 
7 (2.1) 
261 (77.9) 
29 (8.7) 
38 (11.3) 
placebo 
N = 337 
n (%) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
186 (55.2) 
102 (30.3) 
49 (14.5) 
For the 7 patients treated with sorafenib with confirmed PR, the time to response ranged from 42 to 
129 days with a median of 84 days.  Four of the 7 responders had eventual disease progression with 
time to progression ranging from 84 to 252 days; the other 3 responders did not have progression at 
the time of the data cut off for this analysis. 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses – study 11213 
Analysis of PFS based on independent radiological review by demographic, baseline and prognostic 
characteristics are shown in table15. 
Table 15– Subgroup analysis of progression free survival (ITT population) – study 11213 
Variable 
Subgroup 
Sex 
Age 
Motzer score 
Nephrectomy 
Baseline ECOG 
Stage at study entry 
Prior IL2/Interferon 
Prior palliative 
therapy 
Time since initial 
diagnosis >1.5 
years 
Time since initial 
diagnosis to 
metastatic disease 
>0.5 year 
Male 
Female 
<65 years 
≥65 years 
Low 
Intermediate 
No 
Yes 
0 
1 
Stage III 
Stage IV 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
N 
554 
214 
535 
230 
394 
375 
51 
718 
364 
392 
26 
740 
137 
632 
133 
636 
333 
419 
285 
374 
Number 
of events
255 
Number 
censored 
299 
87 
245 
97 
157 
185 
15 
327 
160 
176 
12 
330 
52 
290 
62 
280 
156 
181 
127 
168 
127 
290 
133 
237 
190 
36 
391 
204 
216 
14 
410 
85 
342 
71 
356 
177 
238 
158 
206 
Hazard Ratio 
(sorafenib/placebo) 
Median PFS (days) 
Estimate
95% CI 
placebo 
sorafenib 
0.45 
(0.35, 0.58) 
0.45 
0.49 
0.34 
0.53 
0.39 
0.2 
0.48 
0.48 
0.44 
0.91 
0.45 
0.35 
0.47 
0.56 
0.43 
0.41 
0.47 
0.38 
(0.29, 0.69) 
(0.38, 0.63) 
(0.22, 0.52) 
(0.39, 0.73) 
(0.29, 0.53) 
(0.06, 0.68) 
(0.38, 0.60) 
(0.35, 0.66) 
(0.32, 0.59) 
(0.27, 3.07) 
(0.36, 0.56) 
(0.19, 0.63) 
(0.37, 0.60) 
(0.33,0.93) 
(0.34,0.55) 
(0.30, 0.57) 
(0.35, 0.63) 
(0.27, 0.55) 
0.45 
(0.33, 0.61) 
84 
83 
84 
83 
91 
61 
83 
84 
88 
67 
83 
84 
85 
84 
78 
84 
76 
92 
79 
84 
166 
169 
165 
181 
171 
147 
225 
166 
172 
147 
126 
168 
172 
164 
132 
169 
147 
170 
164 
169 
34/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
Time since 
metastatic disease 
>1 year 
Top enrolling 
countries 
No 
Yes 
France 
US 
Poland 
411 
339 
186 
146 
117 
193 
143 
114 
64 
49 
218 
196 
72 
82 
68 
0.42 
0.46 
0.47 
0.39 
0.59 
(0.32, 0.57) 
(0.33, 0.65) 
(0.32, 0.68) 
(0.24, 0.65) 
77 
87 
84 
76 
(0.33, 1.05) 
122 
147 
175 
171 
141 
178 
More  favourable  effects  in  terms  of  hazard  ratios  were  observed  in  patients  with  more  aggressive 
disease  as  indicated  by  early  progression  in  the  placebo  group  or  by  generally  acknowledged  risk 
factors (Motzer score “low” vs. “intermediate”: median PFS for placebo group 91 vs. 61 days, HR 0.53 
vs. 0.39; Time since initial diagnosis > 1.5 years, “yes” vs. “no”: median PFS for placebo group 92 vs. 
76 days, HR 0.47 vs. 0.41; Poland vs. United States: median PFS for placebo group 122 vs. 76 days, 
HR 0.59 vs. 0.39). 
Survival second interim analysis (30 November 2005) - study 11213 
At the time of analysis there were a total of 367 deaths reported and approximately 200 patients had 
crossed-over  to  sorafenib.  The  nominal  alpha  value  for  this  analysis  was  0.0094  (two-sided).  The 
hazard ratio was 0.77 (p = 0.015, two-sided log-rank, stratified by country and Motzer category; 95% 
CI:  0.63,  0.95).  The  median  survival  was  19.3  months  in  the  sorafenib  group  vs.  15.9  month  in  the 
placebo group). In the post-hoc subgroup analysis, the hazard ratio was 0.74 (95% CI: 0.57, 0.95) for 
Motzer score “intermediate” and 0.82 (95% CI, 0.57, 1.17) for Motzer score “low”. 
A  pre-specified  secondary  analysis  was  performed  in  order  to  understand  the  potential  effect  of 
crossover  on  overall  survival  in  placebo  patients.  In  this  analysis,  survival  data  for  placebo  patients 
were censored at 30 Jun 2005, and data for sorafenib patients were those used in the primary analysis 
(30 Nov 2005). The latest survival data for sorafenib could be compared to the non-crossover placebo 
data. The hazard ratio was 0.74, p = 0.010. 
Progression-free survival analysis (as off 31 May 2005) - study 11213 
After  the  completion  of  the  final  PFS  analysis  in  study  11213,  independent  reviews  of  radiologic 
studies were discontinued. The updated analysis was a descriptive analysis, which includes PFS data 
for all randomized patients as of 31 May 2005 (see table 16 and 17). 
Table 16 - Progression-free survival based on investigator assessment of radiological scans 
Total Failed (n, %) 
Total Censored (n, %) 
Median PFS Days 
Hazard ratio (sorafenib/placebo) (95% CI for hazard ratio) 
274 (60.9%) 
176 (39.1%) 
168 
0.51 (0.43, 0.60) 
sorafenib 
N=451 
placebo 
N=452 
330 (73.2%) 
121 (26.8%) 
84 
Table 17- Analysis of investigator-assessed PFS as of 31 May 2005 by Motzer prognostic criteria 
Prognostic Category 
HR (95% CI) 
Low (n=460) 
Intermediate (n=441) 
0.58     (0.46, 0.74) 
0.46     (0.36, 0.57)       
Median PFS  (days) 
sorafenib 
181 
166 
placebo 
97 
64 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
There were no analysis performed across trials. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  studies  were  conducted  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  sorafenib  in  special  population.  No  data  were 
available in patients with impaired liver or kidney function. 
35/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Study 100391  
This  was  a  multicenter,  placebo-controlled,  randomised,  discontinuation  phase  II  study  evaluating 
sorafenib  in  patients  with  advanced  refractory  cancer.  The  primary  objective  was  to  determine,  in 
patients with advanced solid tumours and stable disease after 12 weeks of treatment with sorafenib, the 
percentage of patients who were progression-free after continued sorafenib treatment versus placebo. 
Patients should have refractory solid cancer for which other treatments were considered ineffective or 
intolerant,  at  least  one  measurable  tumour  lesion  (modified  WHO  tumour  response  criteria),  ECOG 
performance status 0 or 1, life expectancy of 12 weeks. Originally, the study focused on patients with 
colorectal  carcinoma,  but  as  tumour  responses  were  observed  in  patients  with  RCC  and  without 
treatment options, this group of patients was expanded and 202 patients with RCC were included. 
Treatment: Sorafenib 2 x 200 mg tablets bid. Dose modification due to toxicity allowed 200 mg bid 
and 200 mg QD. All patients were treated with sorafenib 400 bid for 12 weeks. Patients with stable 
disease  at  12  weeks  were  to  be  randomised  to  placebo  or  continued  sorafenib  while  responders 
continued on active therapy and patients with progressive disease went off study. The population for 
efficacy  analysis  was  the  ITT  population,  i.e.  all  patients  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study 
medication. The primary efficacy endpoint was progression-free rate at 12 weeks after randomisation. 
The  two  groups  were  compared  using  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  test  stratified  by  baseline  ECOG 
score. Secondary endpoints included response rate (confirmed PR and CR). 
A  total  of  187  patients  with  RCC  completed  12  weeks  of  sorafenib  therapy  and  65  underwent 
randomised  withdrawal  while  79  continued  open  label  sorafenib.  Progression-free  survival  after 
randomisation  in  the  placebo  group  was  41  days  vs.  163  days  in  the  sorafenib  continuation  group 
(p=0.0001).  At  12  weeks  post  randomisation,  16/32  of  the  patients  randomised  to  sorafenib  were 
progression  free  vs.  6/33  in  the  placebo  group  (p  =  0.008).  Independent  review  of  tumour  response 
was  undertaken  in  152  patients  and  the  partial response rate was 4% (8/202). Only 17 patients with 
CRC were included in the randomised withdrawal phase. Two out of 8 patients in the sorafenib group 
were progression-free 12 weeks after randomisation vs. 1/9 in the placebo group (p=0.14).  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  dose  finding  studies,  400  mg  bid  continuous  dosing  was  selected  as  the 
optimal schedule for the treatment with sorafenib. For a compound exhibiting predominantly features 
of a cytostatic, continuous dosing was considered appropriate [32, 41]. Biomarkers were not used to 
identify  signs  of  anti-tumour  activity  in  relation  to  dose  or  exposure.  Skin  reactions  and  diarrhoea 
were not dose limiting toxicities. After discussion and consultation of the oncology scientific advisory 
group, this was considered acceptable, due to the multi-targeting nature of sorafenib and the absence 
of  biomarkers  identified  which  may  be  used  for  dose  adjustment  (see  discussion  on  clinical 
pharmacology).  Further  biomarker  data  derived  from  the  pivotal  study  will  be  provided  post-
authorisation.  
The application was based on a phase III, randomised, placebo-controlled trial including patients with 
advanced  clear  cell  renal  cell  carcinoma,  receiving  sorafenib  as  a  second  line  therapy,  with  good 
performance  status  and  without  impaired  organ  function.  The  primary  endpoints  of  the  study  were 
overall  survival  and  progression  free  survival  (PFS),  and  according to the statistical analysis plan, a 
PFS analysis was undertaken after 363 events of progression or death.  
While  the  conduct  of  interim  analyses  for  overall  survival  (OS)  could  be  accepted,  the  conduct  of 
analysis  of  PFS  prior  to  the  final  OS  analysis  is  not  recommended  for  studies  designed  to  show  a 
survival benefit.  
Among  randomised  patients,  27%  receiving  sorafenib  discontinued  double  blind  therapy  due  to 
progression  (independently  reviewed  and  excluding  clinical  progression)  versus  45%  receiving 
placebo (95% CI for difference 12; 25%). 
PFS  results  were  statistically  robust  and  median  time  to  progression  or  death  was  prolonged  in  the 
sorafenib  group  (167  vs.  84  days).  The  pre-specified  α  for  this  analysis  was  0.01,  and  the  stratified 
log-rank test had a two-sided p-value < 0.000001. The estimated hazard ratio (risk of progression with 
sorafenib versus placebo) was 0.44 (95% CI 0.35, 0.55), representing a 56% reduction in hazard over 
placebo. Only considering independent imaging review data (and deaths), in the event analysis (and 
36/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
not  timing  of  event),  the  difference  between  treatment  groups  was  still  convincing  (95%  CI  for 
difference 11; 24%). Therefore no further sensitivity analyses were considered necessary. 
The median difference in PFS in absolute terms was less than 3 months and after prolonged follow up 
the difference between treatment groups became small. This might illustrate that the activity expressed 
in  terms  of  change  in  median  is  a  poor  measure  of  overall  activity.  More  favourable  effects  were 
observed  in  terms  of  hazard  ratios  in  patients  with  more  aggressive  disease  as  indicated  by  early 
progression  in  the  placebo  group.  However,  these  differences  were  small  and  the  interpretation  of 
these data were limited by the small number of patients reported as having stage III disease and the 
small number of events among these patients. Due to the magnitude of the overall effect observed and 
the pattern of observed events, no major changes could be expected if late events had been recorded. 
No meaningful differences related to age and gender were observed. 
A total of 903 patients (451 in the sorafenib group and 452 in the placebo group) were enrolled in the 
study at the time of the first survival analysis. A total of 220 deaths were reported (123 in the placebo 
group and 97 in patients treated with sorafenib). The hazard ratio was 0.72 (p=0.018, two-sided log-
rank, stratified by country and Motzer category; 95% CI: 0.55, 0.95). The formal alpha level for this 
analysis  was  0.0005.  The  survival  analysis  was  thus  non-significant.  Survival  data  as  of  November 
2005 were still considered immature (367 deaths in 903 patients). Results remained stable comparing 
data from the first cut-off date. Formally the results were still statistically non-significant in relation to 
the  stopping  criteria  for  interim  analyses.  However,  based  on  PFS  data,  it  was  concluded  that  a 
favourable and clinically meaningful effect has been demonstrated. 
A final analysis of OS will be conducted when approximately 540 deaths are observed. However, it is 
anticipated that the crossover of placebo patients form placebo to sorafenib arm after May 2005, may 
limit interpretation of the results.   
It was considered unfortunate that the blind was broken and that patients were crossed-over based on 
PFS data, as survival results were expected to be either immature or highly confounded by cross-over 
to  active  therapy.  It  was  anticipated  that  a  good  estimate  of  the  survival  benefit  would  be  hard  to 
obtain. However, after consultation of the oncology scientific advisory group, the CHMP considered 
that PFS per se could be considered as a measure of the clinical benefit of sorafenib. Based on PFS 
data, it was concluded that a favourable and clinically meaningful effect has been demonstrated. 
The  analysis  of  an  enrichment  study  design  (all  patients  were  treated  with  sorafenib  400mg  bid; 
patients  with  stable  disease  at  12  weeks  were  randomised  to  placebo  or  sorafenib;  responders 
continued  on  active  open  label  therapy;  patients  with  progressive  disease  went  off study) confirmed 
the activity of sorafenib in patients with advanced RCC and that the activity is mainly cytostatic, i.e. 
growth  inhibiting.  The  methodology  for  assessing  quality  of  life  was  considered  adequate  and  the 
results (data not shown) suggested a possible advantage for the patients treated with sorafenib, to be 
weighed against an increased incidence of side effects. 
Sorafenib is not recommended for use in children and adolescents due to a lack of data on safety and 
efficacy (see SPC sections 4.2 and 5.3). 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety data for sorafenib have been derived from six completed phase I single-agent studies (studies 
10658,  10164,  100277,  100283,  100313,  and  100342),  one  ongoing  extension  study  (10922),  two 
phase II studies (100391 and 10874) and one phase III study (11213). Adverse events were reported 
by the investigators as an investigator term, and as a term in the National Cancer Institute-Common 
Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) coding dictionary. An integrated safety analysis of data from phase I and 
II clinical studies was provided, with safety data presented in MedDRA, based on the investigator text 
terms provided.  
A  total  of  1872  patients  with  cancer  and  85  healthy  volunteers  were  exposed  to  sorafenib  as  of 
31 Dec 2004 in sponsor-initiated trials, thereof 1376 patients were exposed to single agent sorafenib. 
There  were  1219  patients  exposed  to  sorafenib  in  completed  single  agent  studies  with  253  patients 
being  exposed  for  at  least  6  months  and  42  patients  being  exposed  for  at  least  1  year  (data  cut-off 
37/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
January 2005). The patient exposure to sorafenib in the pivotal trial are provided in table 18 and 19. 
There was no specific treatment for sorafenib overdose. 
Table 18 - Exposure to sorafenib in completed single agent studies 
≥ 6 months 
33 
135 
85 
253 
Phase I 
Phase IIc 
Phase IIId 
Total 
a: 41 patients received sorafenib 400 mg bid; b: All patients received sorafenib 400 mg bid; c: At the time of the analysis 
of the two studies in the phase II pool, 86 patients were still receiving sorafenib; d: At the time of the PFS analysis in study 
11213, 158 patients were still receiving sorafenib. 
any exposure 
197a 
638b 
384b 
1219 
≥ 12 months 
13 
23 
6 
42 
Table 19 - Duration of exposure in study 11213 
Duration of Treatment  
As of 28 Jan 2005 
As of 31 May 2005 
N 
Range (weeks) 
Mean (weeks) 
SD (weeks) 
Median (weeks) 
n = number of patients with duration of exposure data available; N = total number of patients; SD, standard deviation 
placebo 
N=385 
326 
0.0-57.1 
13.4 
10.6 
9.2 
sorafenib 
N=451 
447 
0.7-72.3 
25.4 
16.1 
23.3 
sorafenib 
N=384 
329 
0.7-57.0 
19.4 
13.0 
18.0 
placebo 
N=452 
443 
0.4-76.1 
15.5 
12.6 
12.0 
•  Adverse events  
Study 11213 (data cut-off of 31 May 2005)  
A total of 902 patients, including 451 receiving sorafenib were involved in the safety analyses. Study 
medication was discontinued during double blind therapy due to adverse events in 46 patients in the 
sorafenib  arm  and  37  patients  in  the  placebo arm. A total of 121 patients continued to receive open 
label sorafenib after disease progression. At the time of the safety analysis, 12 patients had crossed-
over to sorafenib. An overview of safety events in study 11213 is provided below. 
Table 20- Overview of safety events in study 11213 
Event 
As of 28 Jan 2005 
As of 31 May 2005 
sorafeniba 
N=384  
placeboa 
N=384 
sorafenibb 
N=451 
placebob 
N=451 
n 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
(85.8) 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
(50.8) 
Drug-related adverse event 
(24.4) 
Serious adverse event 
(2.7) 
Drug-related serious adverse event 
Adverse event leading to permanent discontinuation 
(8.2) 
Deaths within 30 days of receiving study medication 
(6.2) 
a: The median treatment duration was 9 weeks for the placebo group and 18 weeks for the sorafenib group; b: The median 
treatment duration was 12.0 weeks for the placebo group and 23.1 weeks for the sorafenib group; n = number of patients 
with event; N = total number of patients in the group. 
(94.9) 
(83.1) 
(33.9) 
(7.8) 
(10.2) 
(10.6) 
(73.7) 
(44.5) 
(17.7) 
(2.6) 
(7.3) 
(4.7) 
(84.6) 
(73.4) 
(23.7) 
(6.5) 
(6.3) 
(6.5) 
325 
282 
91 
25 
24 
23 
387 
229 
110 
12 
37 
28 
428 
375 
153 
35 
46 
48 
283 
171 
68 
10 
28 
18 
The most common drug reactions are reported in the table below. Cumulative event rates by 6-week 
cycles indicate that most of adverse reactions were reported already in cycle 1. An increase over time 
was seen for alopecia 9% cycle 1, > 20% cycle 3+, neuropathy 6% and 10%, and hypertension 6% and 
10%. 
38/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21: Adverse drug reaction reported in at least 5% of patients in any treatment group  
MedDRA terms 
sorfenib (N=451) 
placebo (N=451) 
Preferred Term 
all grades 
grade 3 
grade 4 
all grades 
grade 3 
grade 4 
System organ class 
Metabolism and 
Nutrition Disorders 
Nervous System 
Disorders 
Vascular Disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
Disorders 
anorexia 
headache 
hypertension 
flushing 
diarrhoea 
nausea 
vomiting 
constipation 
Skin and 
Subcutaneous Tissue 
Disorders 
rash 
alopecia 
hand foot syndrome 
pruritus 
erythema 
dry skin 
skin exfoliation 
arthralgia 
pain in extremity 
fatigue 
asthenia 
Musculoskeletal, 
Connective Tissue 
and Bone Disorders 
General Disorders 
and Administration 
Site conditions 
9% 
6% 
12% 
6% 
38% 
16% 
10% 
6% 
28% 
25% 
19% 
17% 
15% 
11% 
7% 
6% 
6% 
15% 
9% 
<1% 
0% 
2% 
0% 
2% 
<1% 
<1% 
0% 
<1% 
<1% 
4% 
<1% 
0% 
0% 
<1% 
<1% 
<1% 
2% 
<1% 
0% 
0% 
<1% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
5% 
3% 
1% 
2% 
9% 
12% 
6% 
3% 
9% 
3% 
3% 
4% 
4% 
2% 
2% 
3% 
2% 
11% 
4% 
<1% 
0% 
<1% 
0% 
<1% 
<1% 
<1% 
0% 
<1% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
<1% 
<1% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
0% 
Haemorrhage:  Bleeding  events  were  more  commonly  reported  in  sorafenib  treated  patients  (15% 
versus 8%), thereof events grade 3 and more in 2.5% vs. 1.7%.  
Wound healing: there was no indication that wound-healing was affected by sorafenib monotherapy, 
but only 70 patients on sorafenib underwent surgical procedures, mainly minor. No formal studies of 
the effect of sorafenib on wound healing have been conducted. 
Thromboembolism: The overall incidence of treatment related cardiac ischemia/infarction events was 
higher in the sorafenib group (2.9%) than in the placebo group (0.4%).  
Neuropathy: Sensory neuropathy was more commonly reported in sorafenib treated patients (13.1%) 
than in the placebo group (6.4%).   
Exploratory studies 
The sorafenib dose received by patients involved in phase I trials (n=197) ranged from 100 bid to 800 
bid. The rate of drug-related adverse reactions increased with higher doses of sorafenib.  In particular, 
the incidence of diarrhoea, nausea, and stomatitis were higher in patients receiving 800 mg bid than in 
patients  receiving  400 mg  bid.  Similarly,  drug-related  hand-foot  skin  reactions  were  reported  in  no 
patients at 100 mg bid, 11.8% at 200 mg bid, 12.2% of patients at 400 mg bid, 27.5% at 600 mg bid 
and 30.8% at 800 mg bid. 
In  the  phase  II  trials,  91.8%  of  the  adverse  events  were  considered  related  to  sorafenib.  The  most 
common drug-related adverse events were rash (38.4%), diarrhoea (37.5%) and hand-foot syndrome 
(35.0%). Drug-related hypertension had an incidence of 16.8%.  
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
Study 11213 (data cut-off of 31 May 2005) 
39/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Table 22: Grade 3 and 4 adverse drug reaction reported in at least 2% of patients  
sorafenib (N=451) 
placebo (N=451) 
NCI-CTCAE Category/Term 
Any event 
Blood/bone marrow 
Grade 3 
n 
139 
(%) 
(30.8) 
Grade 4 
n 
32 
(%) 
( 7.1) 
Grade 3 
(%) 
n 
(21.5) 
97 
Decreased hemoglobin 
9 
( 2.0) 
Cardiovascular, general 
Hypertension 
Constitutional symptoms 
Fatigue 
Dermatology/skin 
        Hand -foot skin reaction 
Gastrointestinal 
Diarrhoea 
Pain 
Pain, tumour pain 
Pain, bone pain 
Pulmonary 
15 
21 
25 
11 
13 
2 
( 3.3) 
( 4.7) 
( 5.5) 
( 2.4) 
( 2.9) 
( 0.4) 
3 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
( 0.7) 
16 
( 3.5) 
( 0.2) 
2 
( 0.4) 
( 0.2) 
14 
( 3.1) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.2) 
0 
3 
( 0.0) 
( 0.7) 
7 
14 
( 1.6) 
( 3.1) 
Grade 4 
n 
27 
4 
0 
2 
0 
0 
1 
1 
(%) 
( 6.0) 
( 0.9) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.4) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.0) 
( 0.2) 
( 0.2) 
Dyspnea  
( 0.2) 
N: number of patients with event; N: total number of patients in the group; CTCAE: Common terminology criteria for AE 
( 0.9) 
( 2.7) 
( 2.2) 
10 
12 
1 
4 
The incidence of deaths within 30 days of study drug was higher in the sorafenib group (48 patients, 
10.6%) than in the placebo group (28 patients, 6.2%). Patients who were treated with sorafenib had the 
option of continuing sorafenib therapy after progression of disease, while cross-over was not permitted 
in  patients  progressing  on  placebo.  Most  deaths  in  both  treatment  groups  were  due  to  progressive 
disease.   
Exploratory trials 
In  phase  II  trials,  40.1%  of  adverse  events  were  grade  3  or  4  events.  Grade  3  hypertension  was 
reported  in  95  (14.9%)  patients  and  assessed  as  drug-related  in  75  (11.8%).  There  was  one  Grade 4 
hypertension,  which  was  reported  as  hypertensive  crisis  and  related  to  sorafenib.  In  addition  to 
hypertension,  Grade  3  events  that  occurred  in  at  least  5%  of  patients  included  diarrhoea  (5%), 
dyspnoea  (5.3%)  and  hand-foot  syndrome  (7.5%),  with  an  overall  incidence  of  Grade  3  events  of 
51.6%.  The  most  common  Grade 4  events  in  the  phase II  database  included  dyspnoea  (1.1%), 
increased  bilirubin  (0.9%),  asthenia  (0.8%),  increased  GGT  (0.8%),  anaemia  (0.6%)  and  abdominal 
pain (0.6%), with an overall incidence of Grade 4 events of 12.1%. One patient involved in phase II 
trial had a drug-related adverse event (cerebrovascular ischemia) leading to death.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Study 11213 (data cut-off of 31 May 2005) 
A central laboratory was used to evaluate hematological and biochemical parameters. The Grade 3 and 
4  laboratory  abnormalities  occurring  at  a  higher  rate  (≥  2%)  in  sorafenib  vs.  placebo  patients  were 
lymphopenia, neutropenia, elevated lipase, and hypophosphatemia (see Table 23). Sorafenib modestly 
suppresses bone marrow function. 
Table 23:  Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities observed in ≥ 2% of patients  
CTCAE 
Category/Term 
sorafenib 
 (N = 451) 
placebo 
 (N = 451) 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
n/Na 
(%) 
n/Na 
(%) 
n/Na 
(%) 
n/Na 
(%) 
Blood/bone marrow 
   Low Leukocytes 
   Lymphopenia 
   Low Neutrophils 
   Low Hemoglobin 
11/434 
52/434 
12/434 
8/434 
(2.5) 
(12.0) 
(2.8) 
(1.8) 
0/434 
3/434  
11/434 
1/434 
40/49 
(0.0) 
(0.7) 
(2.5) 
(0.2) 
4/425 
29/424 
6/424 
11/425 
(0.9) 
(6.8) 
(1.4) 
(2.6) 
0/425 
2/424 
4/424 
4/425 
(0.0) 
(0.5) 
(0.9) 
(0.9) 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CTCAE 
Category/Term 
sorafenib 
 (N = 451) 
placebo 
 (N = 451) 
   Low Platelets 
Coagulation 
   Prolonged INR 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
n/Na 
2/433 
(%) 
(0.5) 
n/Na 
1/433 
(%) 
(0.2) 
Grade 3 
n/Na 
0/425 
(%) 
(0.0) 
Grade 4 
n/Na 
0/425 
(%) 
(0.0) 
23/435 
(5.3) 
0/435 
(0.0) 
28/425 
(6.6) 
0/425 
(0.0) 
Metabolic/laboratory 
0/436 
   Hypophosphatemia 
4/436 
   Elevated lipase 
3/436 
   Hyponatremia 
1/436 
   Hyperglycemia 
7/436 
   Hyperkalemia 
0/436 
   Elevated amylase 
3/436 
   Hypercalcemia 
   Hypocalcemia 
4/436 
n = number of patients with the laboratory abnormality, N = total number of patients with the laboratory measurement 
reported; INR – international normalized ratio. 
11/427 
22/427 
20/427 
22/427 
11/427 
9/427 
6/427 
0/427 
58/436 
50/436 
25/436 
14/436 
15/436 
6/436 
1/436 
7/436 
(13.3) 
(11.5) 
(5.7) 
(3.2) 
(3.4) 
(1.4) 
(0.2) 
(1.6) 
0/427 
8/427 
0/427 
1/427 
3/427 
3/427 
8/427 
2/427 
(2.6) 
(5.2) 
(4.7) 
(5.2) 
(2.6) 
(2.1) 
(1.4) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.9) 
(0.7) 
(0.2) 
(1.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.7) 
(0.9) 
(0.0) 
(1.9) 
(0.0) 
(0.2) 
(0.7) 
(0.7) 
(1.9) 
(0.5) 
Increased  lipase  and  amylase  were  very  commonly  reported  and  grade  3  or  4  lipase  elevations 
occurred in 11% of patients in the sorafenib group compared with 7% of patients in the placebo group. 
Grade 3 or 4 amylase elevations were reported in 3% of patients in the sorafenib group compared to 
1% of patients in the placebo group. Three cases of pancreatitis were reported in the sorafenib group 
versus one in the placebo group. 
Hypophosphatemia,  was  observed  in  45%  of  sorafenib  patients  and  12%  of  placebo  patients  had 
hypophosphatemia. There were no cases of Grade 4 hypophosphatemia, defined as below 1.0 mg/dl. 
Grade  3  hypophosphataemia  (1  -  2 mg/dl)  occurred  in  13%  on  sorafenib  treated  patients  and  3%  of 
patients  in  the  placebo  group.  The  aetiology  of  hypophosphataemia  associated  with  sorafenib  could 
not be defined.  
•  Safety in special populations 
As  of  28  January  2005,  703  men  and  266  women  (approximately  reflecting  the  prevalence  of  the 
disease) were treated with sorafenib. Hypertension, rash, hand-foot syndrome and alopecia tended to 
be reported in a higher frequency in women.  
The  majority  of  patients  included  in  the  clinical  trials  were  between  45  and  64  years  of  age.  There 
were  no  signs  of  an  increased  incidence  of  peripheral  neuropathy  in  the  elderly.  Hypertension  was 
reported in about 40% (53/128) of patients in the age group 45-64 and 25% (14/56) in those over 65 
years. Nine of the 202 RCC patients in study 100391 (4.4%) and 32 of the 902 patients in study 11213 
(3.5%) were ≥ 75 years of age. Although no renal toxic effects of sorafenib have been identified, there 
were 3 (16.7%) patients ≥75 years in the sorafenib group and none in the placebo group who had renal 
failure  reported  as  an  adverse  event.    Overall,  renal  failure  was  reported  as  an  adverse  event  in  10 
(2.2%) sorafenib patients and 4 (0.9%) placebo patients in study 11213. 
Too  few  non-Caucasians  were  included  in  clinical  trials  to  draw  conclusion  on  safety  in  different 
ethnic groups. No safety data in patients with hepatic and renal impairment were submitted. The safety 
of sorafenib in paediatric patients has not been studied. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  specific  studies  were  conducted  to  assess  the  safety  related  to  drug-drug  interactions.  Infrequent 
bleeding events or elevations in the International Normalized Ratio (INR) have been reported in some 
patients taking warfarin while on sorafenib therapy.   
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
As of 31 May 2005, 97 patients treated with sorafenib had at least one dose interruption due to adverse 
events. Most common reasons for temporary discontinuation of sorafenib were hand foot skin reaction 
(22 patients) and diarrhoea (15 patients). In total, dose reductions due to adverse events were reported 
41/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  58  sorafenib  patients.  The  most  common  events  leading  to  dose  reductions  were  hand  foot  skin 
reaction (24 patients) and diarrhoea (10 patients). Hypertension led to dose interruption in 8 patients 
and dose reduction in 5 patients treated with sorafenib. Adverse events led to dose interruption in 27 
patients  receiving  placebo  and  dose  reduction  in  14  patients  receiving  placebo.  The  most  common 
reasons for dose reductions and interruptions in placebo patients were pain and diarrhoea.  
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing experience was available at the time of submission. 
•  Readability testing 
The package leaflet was submitted to a pilot testing (involving four subjects) as well as two separate 
full rounds of user testing involving 10 subjects each. The package leaflet used in these testing rounds 
did not significantly differ from the version revised due to the scientific assessment.  
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Code  terms  in  the  NCI-CTC  (National  Cancer  Institute  Common  Toxicity  Criteria)  and  MedDRA 
dictionaries  were  used.  Investigators  provided  both  an  investigator  term  and  a  CTC  coded  term  for 
each  event.  The  potential  assignment  of  different  CTC  and  MedDRA  codes  to  the  same  event  was 
acknowledged. However, NCI-CTC are commonly used in oncology trials. Terms were translated into 
MedDRA and the approach was considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
The safety evaluation of sorafenib was based on 1286 patients who received sorafenib in single agent 
clinical  studies.  The  most  common  drug-related  adverse  events  were  diarrhoea,  rash,  alopecia  and 
hand-foot  skin  reaction.  Events  coded  as  drug  related  were  reported  in  80%  of  sorafenib  treated 
patients versus 50% in the placebo group. Rash and hand-foot skin reaction were usually CTC Grade 1 
and 2 and generally appeared during the first six weeks of treatment with sorafenib. Management of 
dermatologic  toxicities  may  include  topical  therapies  for  symptomatic  relief,  temporary  treatment 
interruption  and/or  dose  modification  of  sorafenib,  or  in  severe  or  persistent  cases,  permanent 
discontinuation of sorafenib (see section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC).  
The events most commonly associated with permanent discontinuation of study drug were pulmonary 
events (9 patients in sorafenib group, 4 patients in placebo group), gastrointestinal events (8 patients in 
sorafenib  group,  4  patients  in  placebo  group),  and  constitutional  symptoms  (7  patients  in  sorafenib 
group,  3  patients  in  placebo  group).  An  increased  risk  of  bleeding  may  occur  following  sorafenib 
administration.  If  any  bleeding  event  necessitates  medical  intervention,  it  is  recommended  that 
permanent discontinuation of sorafenib should be considered (see section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC).  
Altogether 97 sorafenib patients had at least one dose interruption, thereof 22 due to hand-foot skin 
reactions  and  10  due  to  diarrhoea.  Most  of  these  patients  had  a  dose  reduction  upon  resumption  of 
therapy.  Hypertension  led  to  dose  interruption  in  8  patients  and  dose  reduction  in  5  patients. 
Hypertension  was  usually  mild  to  moderate,  occurred  early  in  the  course  of  treatment,  and  was 
amenable to management with standard antihypertensive therapy. Blood pressure should be monitored 
regularly and treated, if required, in accordance with standard medical practice. In cases of severe or 
persistent  hypertension,  or  hypertensive  crisis  despite  institution  of  antihypertensive  therapy, 
permanent discontinuation of sorafenib should be considered (see section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC). 
Treatment  related  cardiac  ischaemia/infarction  adverse  events  was  higher  in  the  sorafenib  group 
(2.9%)  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (0.4%).  Patients  with  unstable  coronary  artery  disease  or 
recent  myocardial  infarction  were  excluded  from  the  pivotal  study.  Temporary  or  permanent 
discontinuation  of  sorafenib  is  recommended  in  patients  who  develop  cardiac  ischemia  and/or 
infarction  (see  section  4.4  and  4.8  of  the  SPC).  Patients  taking  concomitant  warfarin  should  be 
monitored regularly for changes in prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio (INR) or clinical 
bleeding episodes (see section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC). 
In the pivotal trial, more adverse events were reported as of 31 May 2005, mainly due to prolonged 
follow-up. There were about 10% (absolute) more serious adverse events in the sorafenib group and 
4%  more  deaths  within  30  days  of  receiving  study  medication.  The  median  duration  of  therapy  in 
sorafenib patients increased from 18.0 weeks as of 28 Jan 2005 to 23.3 weeks as of 31 May 2005.  The 
overall  exposure  was  longer  in  the  sorafenib  group  (218.3  patient-years)  than  in  the  placebo  group 
42/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
(132.0  patient-years).  The  increase  in  the  rate  of  adverse  events  in  the  sorafenib  arm  was  also 
explained  by  the  continuation  of  sorafenib  therapy  in  the  setting  of  tumour  progression,  as  per  the 
protocol.  Patients on placebo were to discontinue therapy upon progression (until the crossover was 
instituted  in  April  2005).    Patients  with  progressive  disease  were  expected  to  have  a  higher  rate  of 
adverse events.   
In phase I and phase II trials, common and drug related adverse reactions were dose-dependent and the 
overall pattern of adverse events was similar to that in the phase III trial. 
No data was available on patients with Child Pugh C (severe) hepatic impairment. Since sorafenib is 
mainly eliminated via the hepatic route, a special warning has been included in section 4.4 of the SPC 
as exposure might be increased in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Temporary interruption of 
sorafenib  therapy  is  recommended  for  precautionary  reasons  in  patients  undergoing  major  surgical 
procedures. Cases of renal failure have been reported in elderly patients. Monitoring of renal function 
is  recommended  in  these  patients  (see  section  4.4  od  the  SPC).  There  is  limited  clinical  experience 
regarding the timing of reinitiation of therapy following major surgical intervention. The decision to 
resume  sorafenib  therapy  following  a  major  surgical  intervention  should  be  based  on  clinical 
judgement of adequate wound healing (see SPC section 4.4). High risk patients, according to MSKCC 
(Memorial  Sloan  Kettering  Cancer  Center)  prognostic group,  were  not  included  in  the  pivotal  study 
and the benefit-risk balance in these patients has not been evaluated. 
The highest dose of sorafenib studied clinically was 800 mg twice daily. The adverse events observed 
at this dose were primarily diarrhoea and dermatological events. In the event of suspected overdose, it 
is recommended that sorafenib is withheld and supportive care instituted, where necessary (see SPC 
section 4.9). No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  sorafenib  affects  the  ability  to  drive  or  to  operate  machinery  (see  SPC 
section 4.7). Sorafenib is contra-indicated in patients with hypersensitivity to the active substance or to 
any excipients (see SPC sections 4.3). 
Hypophosphatemia was a commonly observed phenomenon in patients treated with sorafenib and has 
been  reported  also  for  other  tyrosine  kinase  inhibitors  (e.g.  imatinib,  erlotinib).  The  mechanisms 
behind this adverse reaction will be investigated post-authorisation. 
1.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 24: Summary of the risk management plan  
Potential Safety issue 
Dermatological toxicities 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
-Routine pharmacovigilance activities  
-In cases of Steven-Johnson or Lyell syndrome, 
 a targeted questionnaire to direct data collection on SAE’s  
Hypertension 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-A targeted questionnaire to direct data collection on SAEs 
reported as hypertensive crisis will be used. 
Increases in lipase, 
amylase and 
symptomatic 
pancreatitis. 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-Key Bayer sponsored clinical studies will continue to collect 
lipase and amylase data  
-SAE questionnaires will be used to collect data for ---SAE 
reports of significant lipase and amylase increases and clinical 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that dermatological 
side effects occur generally during the first 6 months of 
treatment with Nexavar 
-Management of symptoms by topical therapy 
-Temporary treatment interruption or dose reduction  
-In severe cases permanent discontinuation of sorafenib 
is recommended 
-Listed as ADR’s in Section 4.8 of the SPC 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that Regular blood 
pressure should be monitored and treated by standard 
medical practice, required. In cases of severe or persistent 
hypertension, or hypertensive crisis despite institution of 
antihypertensive therapy, permanent discontinuation of 
Nexavar should be considered. 
-Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
-Listed as ADR’s in section 4.8 of the SPC and data 
described in section 4.8 on laboratory test abnormalities 
43/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
  
 
 
 
Potential Safety issue 
Hypophosphataemia 
Haemorrhage 
Arterial thrombosis / 
Cardiac ischaemia and/or 
infarction 
Wound healing 
complications 
Patients on Coumadin 
Anticoagulants / 
Warfarin co-
administration 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
pancreatitis.  
-A review will be performed to determine the rates of lipase and 
amylase increases, the incidence of pancreatitis in cancer 
patients and to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the 
relationship between biochemical and clinical sequelae 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities: 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-A study will be conducted to understand the mechanism of 
hypophosphataemia. 
-Additionally, attempts will be made to evaluate mutations in the 
tyrosine kinase domain of the FGF Receptor 3 to perform 
correlative analysis with hypophosphataemia.  
-Results expected to be available in Q 2/2008 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance  activities 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-In the planned Phase 3 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
trial case record forms will collect histological subtype of the 
tumour (squamous vs. adeno carcinomas) 
-Specific SAE follow up, using SAE questionnaires for:  
-
- Cerebral hemorrhage. 
 - Significant lung bleeding 
-Epidemiological assessment 
-  To determine in the advanced or metastatic RCC 
population the rates of cerebral bleeding, outcome of 
cerebral bleeding, prevalence of cerebral metastasis and 
cerebral bleeding from these metastases. 
-  To determine the risk factors for and the incidence of 
haemoptysis and significant lung bleeding in the NSCLC 
population. 
-  To assess bleeding rates across tumour types to 
highlight particular disease settings at higher risk of 
bleeding 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-Further assessment of the available epidemiological resources 
will be made to determine the rates of cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular diseases in relevant cancer patient populations. 
-Specific SAE questionnaires on Myocardial infarction and 
cerebrovascular ischemic events will be used. 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
-Additional clinical AE data collection from ongoing clinical 
studies. 
-SAE reports of surgical interventions will be followed up to 
query whether the investigator/ prescriber consider there to have 
been any adverse effects on wound healing. 
-When company sponsored adjuvant or neo adjuvant clinical 
trials are planned, appropriate data collection techniques will be 
defined to capture any effects on wound healing and scar 
formation. 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities. 
Hepatic impairment 
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
Elderly  
-Routine Pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
-Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that an increased risk 
of bleeding may occur following Nexavar treatment. If 
any bleeding event necessitates medical intervention, it is 
recommended that permanent discontinuation of Nexavar 
should be considered 
-Listed as ADR in section 4.8 of the SPC 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that in a randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind study the incidence of 
treatment-emergent cardiac ischaemia/infarction events 
was higher in the Nexavar group (2.9%) compared with 
the placebo group (0.4%). Temporary or permanent 
discontinuation of Nexavar should be considered in 
patients who develop cardiac ischemia and/or infarction 
-Cardiac ischemia and/or infarction are listed as ADR in 
section 4.8 of the SPC 
-Warning of section 4.4 of the SPC that no formal studies 
of the effect of sorafenib on wound healing have been 
conducted and limited clinical experience is available 
regarding the timing of reinitiation of therapy following 
major surgical intervention. 
-Temporary interruption of Nexavar therapy is 
recommended for precautionary reasons in patients 
undergoing major surgical procedures. The decision to 
resume Nexavar therapy following a major surgical 
intervention should be based on clinical judgement of 
adequate wound healing. 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that infrequent 
bleeding events or elevations in the International 
Normalized Ratio (INR) have been reported in some 
patients taking warfarin while on Nexavar therapy. 
Patients taking concomitant Warfarin or phenprocoumon 
should be monitored regularly for changes in Prothrombin 
time, INR or clinical bleeding.  
-Statement in section 4.5 (interaction with other medical 
products) that INR should be checked regularly if 
Sorafenib is administered concomitantly with warfarin. 
-Abnormal prothrombin, INR listed in section 4.8 as 
ADRs  
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that since Sorafenib is 
mainly eliminated via the hepatic route, exposure might be 
increased in patients with severe hepatic impairment No 
data are available for patients with Child Pugh C (severe) 
hepatic impairment. 
-4.2 Posology and method of administration also indicates 
that no data are available in Child Pugh C patients. 
-Warning in section 4.4 of the SPC that the experience 
with the use of Nexavar in elderly patients is limited and 
44/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Safety in children 
-A paediatric study to be run by the CTEP Children’s Oncology 
Group in children with refractory solid tumours or refractory 
leukaemias is planned to start in second quarter 2006.  
Pregnancy and lactation 
-All reports of pregnancy occurring on Sorafenib reported to 
Bayer  will be followed up with targeted questionnaires at 
appropriate intervals to record the outcome of the pregnancy and 
any adverse outcomes. Any congenital abnormalities will be 
recorded as SAEs and reported accordingly 
Non-Caucasians 
-Database of experience of Sorafenib in non-caucasian patients 
will be further expanded by additional data from non-Caucasian 
population studies conducted in Japan and Asia. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
cases of renal failure have been reported.  
-Monitoring of renal function should be considered. 
-Warning in section 4.2 of the SPC that Nexavar is not 
recommended for use in children and adolescents due to a 
lack of data on safety and efficacy. After repeated dosing 
to young and growing dogs, effects on bone and teeth 
were observed at exposures below the clinical exposure. 
-Warning in section 4.6 of the SPC (pregnancy and 
lactation) that Women of childbearing potential must use 
effective contraception during treatment. 
-Product labelling clearly states the harmful potential 
effects to a pregnancy if it occurs during Sorafenib dosing 
and the potential adverse effects Sorafenib may have on 
an ongoing pregnancy. 
-Contraindicated for breast-feeding women: Breast-
feeding is contra-indicated during sorafenib treatment 
-Statement in section 5.2 of the SPC: Race: The mean 
sorafenib exposure was lower in Japanese patients than in 
Caucasian patients, but the exposure was highly variable. 
The clinical relevance of this observation is unknown.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
1.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality, Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  quality  of  this  product  was  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
There  were  no  issues  concerning  the  quality,  the  non-clinical  pharmacology  or  the  toxicology  of 
sorafenib  that  negatively  affected  the  overall  benefit-risk  assessment.  Some  issues  required  further 
clarification, to be provided post-authorisation. 
Efficacy 
In a phase III, randomised, placebo-controlled trial, including patients with advanced clear cell renal 
cell carcinoma, with good performance status and without impaired organ function (half of the patients 
had  an  ECOG  performance  status  of  0,  and  half  of  the  patients  were  in  the  low  risk  MSKCC 
prognostic  group),  receiving  sorafenib  400mg+best  supportive  care  (BSC)  or  placebo+BSC  twice 
daily as a second line therapy, the median time to progression or death was prolonged in the sorafenib 
group (167 vs. 84 days; α = 0.01, two-sided p-value < 0.000001). These results corresponded to a 56% 
reduction in hazard over placebo. 
A  total  of  903  patients  were  enrolled  at  the  time  of  the  survival  analysis.  Among  them,  220  deaths 
were  reported  (123  in  the  placebo  group,  97  in  the  sorafenib  group).  The  hazard  ratio  was  0.72 
(p=0.018).  The  survival  analysis  was  non-significant.  Survival  data  as  of  November  2005  were  still 
considered  immature  (367  deaths  in  903  patients).  Formally  the  results  were  still  statistically  non-
significant in relation to the stopping criteria for interim analyses. However, based on PFS data, it was 
concluded that a favourable and clinically meaningful effect had been demonstrated.  
The  analysis  of  an  enrichment  study  design  confirmed  the  activity  of  sorafenib  in  patients  with 
advanced RCC and that the activity is mainly cytostatic.  
Safety 
During clinical trials, sorafenib was considered a well tolerated anti-cancer drug. Dermatological side 
effects  and  diarrhoea,  and  hypertension  likely  related  to  VEGF  inhibition,  were  frequently observed 
and led to dose reductions and treatment withdrawal in some individuals. Neuropathy constitutes no 
major  concern,  and  may  be  cumulative.  There  was  a  signal  as  regards  pancreatitis.  Further 
investigations  will  be  conducted  post-authorisation 
the  mechanism  of 
hypophosphataemia. 
to  understand 
45/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  antitumour  activity  of  sorafenib  was  demonstrated  in  treatment-naïve  and  previously  treated  
patients,  irrespective  of  age,  gender  and  Motzer  prognostic  criteria  (good  or  intermediate  risk).  In 
terms  of  PFS,  the  results  were  statistically  robust  and  median  time  to  progression  or  death  was 
prolonged with slightly less than 3 months. Two interim survival analyses were conducted (data cut-
off May and November 2005). The hazard ratios in both analyses were about 0.75 (corresponding p-
values of 0.015, i.e. nominally non-significant). The estimated median survival benefit was about 3+ 
months, i.e. a treatment effect considered clinically relevant. A final analysis of OS will be conducted 
when  approximately  540  deaths  are  observed,  but  it  is  anticipated  that  the  crossover  of  placebo 
patients  from  placebo  to  sorafenib  arm  after  May  2005,  limit  interpretation  of  the  results.  However, 
after  consultation  of  the  oncology  scientific  advisory  group  (SAG),  the  CHMP  considered  that  PFS 
per se could be considered as a measure of the clinical benefit of sorafenib. Based on PFS data, it was 
concluded that a favourable and clinically meaningful effect has been demonstrated.  
Positive results are available (OS and PFS) from randomised trials using cytokines-based therapies in 
advanced  RCC.  Although  several  major  questions  remain  about  their  application,  cytokines-based 
therapies  are  widely  used  in  Europe,  and  in  the  absence  of  comparative  data  relative  to  available 
treatment options, the oncology SAG did not recommend the use of sorafenib in first line, as initially 
proposed  by  the  applicant.  An  ongoing,  first-line,  interferon  alpha  comparative  study  aiming  at 
showing superiority in terms of PFS is ongoing. 
Moreover, the applicant was asked to justify the proposed first line indication taking into account the 
study population of the pivotal study i.e., “second-line patients”, low-moderate Motzer risk and clear 
cell  carcinoma  (mutation  of  the  VHL  gene).  In  retrospect  and  as  no  relationship  between  VHL 
mutation  status  and  clinical  outcome  was  identified,  the  indication  was  not  restricted  to  clear  cell 
RCC. In addition, acknowledging that patients with, e.g. an expected survival of less than 3 months 
are  frequently  excluded  from  clinical  trials  without restrictions  of  the  indication,  the  CHMP  did not 
consider it appropriate to restrict the indications to patients with poor prognosis according to Motzer 
score.  The  baseline  disease  characteristics  of  the  population  included  in  the  pivotal  study  are 
mentioned  in  section  5.1  of  the  SPC.  In  line  with  the  oncology  SAG  recommendations,  the  final 
wording adopted by the CHMP for section 4.1 of the SPC was: “treatment of patients with advanced 
renal  cell  carcinoma  who  have  failed  prior  interferon-alpha  or  interleukin-2  based  therapy  or  are 
considered unsuitable for such therapy”. The CHMP required a post-authorisation investigation of the 
activity  of  sorafenib  in  patients  with  papillary  tumours  through  the  conduct  of  an  exploratory  study 
utilising,  e.g.  effects  on  angiogenesis  as  outcome  measure.  Further  post-authorisation  exploratory 
biomarker studies were also required.   
Based on available data, the benefit-risk balance of sorafenib was considered favourable, considering 
the  relatively  positive  safety  profile  of  this  medicinal  product.  The  benefit-risk  assessment  was 
strengthened  by  immature  survival  data  (HR  0.7,  p=0.02).  However,  it  was  acknowledged  that  the 
assessment of the full potential of sorafenib in terms of survival benefit in the treatment of advanced 
RCC  would  not  be  possible  due  to  the  early  unblinding  of  study  results  and  subsequent  cross-over. 
Due to the availability of active authorised treatment for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell 
carcinoma RCC, the indication was restricted to use in second-line. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed  to  investigate  further  some  of  the  safety  concerns.  No  additional  risk minimisation activities 
were required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
46/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Nexavar in the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell 
carcinoma  who  have  failed  prior  interferon-alpha  or  interleukin-2  based  therapy  or  are  considered 
unsuitable for such therapy was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation  
47/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
References 
McLaughlin JK, Lipworth L: Epidemiologic aspects of renal cell cancer. Semin Oncol 2000, 
27(2):115-123. 
Pantuck AJ, Zisman A, Belldegrun AS: The changing natural history of renal cell carcinoma. J 
Urol 2001, 166(5):1611-1623. 
Chow WH, Devesa SS, Warren JL, Fraumeni JF, Jr.: Rising incidence of renal cell cancer in the 
United States. Jama 1999, 281(17):1628-1631. 
Wingo PA, Tong T, Bolden S: Cancer statistics, 1995. CA Cancer J Clin 1995, 45(1):8-30. 
Godley PA, Ataga KI: Renal cell carcinoma. Curr Opin Oncol 2000, 12(3):260-264. 
Vogelzang NJ, Stadler WM: Kidney cancer. Lancet 1998, 352(9141):1691-1696. 
Society AC: Cancer facts and figures. American Cancer Society 2004. 
Campbell SC, Flanigan RC, Clark JI: Nephrectomy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Curr Treat 
Options Oncol 2003, 4(5):363-372. 
Storkel S, Eble JN, Adlakha K, Amin M, Blute ML, Bostwick DG, Darson M, Delahunt B, Iczkowski 
K: Classification of renal cell carcinoma: Workgroup No. 1. Union Internationale Contre le 
Cancer (UICC) and the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC). Cancer 1997, 80(5):987-
989. 
Atzpodien J, Kirchner H, Illiger HJ, Metzner B, Ukena D, Schott H, Funke PJ, Gramatzki M, 
Jurgenson S, Wandert T et al: IL-2 in combination with IFN- alpha and 5-FU versus tamoxifen in 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma: long-term results of a controlled randomized clinical trial. Br J 
Cancer 2001, 85(8):1130-1136. 
Amato RJ: Chemotherapy for renal cell carcinoma. Semin Oncol 2000, 27(2):177-186. 
Coppin C, Porzsolt F, Awa A, Kumpf J, Coldman A, Wilt T: Immunotherapy for advanced renal cell 
cancer. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2005(1):CD001425. 
Gitlitz BJ, Belldegrun A, Figlin RA: Immunotherapy and gene therapy. Semin Urol Oncol 1996, 
14(4):237-243. 
Yang JC, Rosenberg SA: An ongoing prospective randomized comparison of interleukin-2 
regimens for the treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer. Cancer J Sci Am 1997, 3 Suppl 1:S79-
84. 
Negrier S, Maral J, Drevon M, Vinke J, Escudier B, Philip T: Long-term follow-up of patients with 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma treated with intravenous recombinant interleukin-2 in Europe. 
Cancer J Sci Am 2000, 6 Suppl 1:S93-98. 
Negrier S PD, Revaud A, Chevreau D, Bay JO, Delva R: Do cytokines improve survival in patients 
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (MRCC) of intermediate prognosis? Results of the 
prospective randomized PERCY Quattro trial. J Clin Oncol 2005(23 (Suppl.)):380f. 
Schlessinger J: Cell signaling by receptor tyrosine kinases. Cell 2000, 103(2):211-225. 
Zwick E, Bange J, Ullrich A: Receptor tyrosine kinases as targets for anticancer drugs. Trends Mol 
Med 2002, 8(1):17-23. 
Herrera R, Sebolt-Leopold JS: Unraveling the complexities of the Raf/MAP kinase pathway for 
pharmacological intervention. Trends Mol Med 2002, 8(4 Suppl):S27-31. 
Davies H, Bignell GR, Cox C, Stephens P, Edkins S, Clegg S, Teague J, Woffendin H, Garnett MJ, 
Bottomley W et al: Mutations of the BRAF gene in human cancer. Nature 2002, 417(6892):949-
954. 
Downward J: Targeting RAS signalling pathways in cancer therapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2003, 3(1):11-
22. 
Bergers G, Song S, Meyer-Morse N, Bergsland E, Hanahan D: Benefits of targeting both pericytes 
and endothelial cells in the tumor vasculature with kinase inhibitors. J Clin Invest 2003, 
111(9):1287-1295. 
Alavi A, Hood JD, Frausto R, Stupack DG, Cheresh DA: Role of Raf in vascular protection from 
distinct apoptotic stimuli. Science 2003, 301(5629):94-96. 
Hood JD, Bednarski M, Frausto R, Guccione S, Reisfeld RA, Xiang R, Cheresh DA: Tumor 
regression by targeted gene delivery to the neovasculature. Science 2002, 296(5577):2404-2407. 
Meadows KN, Bryant P, Pumiglia K: Vascular endothelial growth factor induction of the 
angiogenic phenotype requires Ras activation. J Biol Chem 2001, 276(52):49289-49298. 
Doanes AM, Hegland DD, Sethi R, Kovesdi I, Bruder JT, Finkel T: VEGF stimulates MAPK 
through a pathway that is unique for receptor tyrosine kinases. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 
1999, 255(2):545-548. 
EMEA: Guidance on Safety Pharmacology Studies for Human Pharmaceuticals. ICH 
S7A:http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/ich/053900enpdf 2000(CPMP/ICH/539/00). 
48/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
  
28. 
29. 
Schuhmacher J, Kohlsdorfer C, Buhner K, Brandenburger T, Kruk R: High-throughput 
determination of the free fraction of drugs strongly bound to plasma proteins. J Pharm Sci 2004, 
93(4):816-830. 
OECD: Guideline for Testing of Chemicals 404, EEC Directive 67/548 Annex V - Method B.4. 
1967. 
EPA: Health Effects Test Guideline (OPPTS 870.2500. 
EMEA: Guideline on the Evaluation of Anticancer Medicinal Products in Man. 
CPMP/EWP/205/95/Rev3/Corr 2005 
(http://www.emea.eu.int/index/indexh1.htm). 
32. 
EMEA: Note for guidance on Pre-Clinical Evaluation of Anticancer Medicinal Products. 
CPMP/SWP/997/96:  
30. 
31. 
http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/swp/099796enpdf. 
33. 
EMEA: Guideline on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(Released for consultation January 2005). http://wwwemeaeuint/pdfs/human/swp/519902enpdf> 
2005(CHMP/SWP/4447/00). 
Girard H, Court MH, Bernard O, Fortier LC, Villeneuve L, Hao Q, Greenblatt DJ, von Moltke LL, 
Perussed L, Guillemette C: Identification of common polymorphisms in the promoter of the 
UGT1A9 gene: evidence that UGT1A9 protein and activity levels are strongly genetically 
controlled in the liver. Pharmacogenetics 2004, 14(8):501-515. 
Kuypers DR, Naesens M, Vermeire S, Vanrenterghem Y: The impact of uridine diphosphate-
glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9) gene promoter region single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
T-275A and C-2152T on early mycophenolic acid dose-interval exposure in de novo renal 
allograft recipients. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2005, 78(4):351-361. 
Paoluzzi L, Singh AS, Price DK, Danesi R, Mathijssen RH, Verweij J, Figg WD, Sparreboom A: 
Influence of genetic variants in UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 on the in vivo glucuronidation of SN-38. J 
Clin Pharmacol 2004, 44(8):854-860. 
Villeneuve L, Girard H, Fortier LC, Gagne JF, Guillemette C: Novel functional polymorphisms in 
the UGT1A7 and UGT1A9 glucuronidating enzymes in Caucasian and African-American 
subjects and their impact on the metabolism of 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin and flavopiridol 
anticancer drugs. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2003, 307(1):117-128. 
Jinno H, Saeki M, Saito Y, Tanaka-Kagawa T, Hanioka N, Sai K, Kaniwa N, Ando M, Shirao K, 
Minami H et al: Functional characterization of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 variant, 
D256N, found in Japanese cancer patients. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2003, 306(2):688-693. 
Kindler HL, Friberg G, Singh DA, Locker G, Nattam S, Kozloff M, Taber DA, Karrison T, Dachman 
A, Stadler WM et al: Phase II trial of bevacizumab plus gemcitabine in patients with advanced 
pancreatic cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005, 23(31):8033-8040. 
Motzer RJ, Mazumdar M, Bacik J, Berg W, Amsterdam A, Ferrara J: Survival and prognostic 
stratification of 670 patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 1999, 17(8):2530-
2540. 
CHMP: ICH S7A: Step 5 Note for Guidance on Safety Pharmacology Studies for Human 
Pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/539/00 - adopted November 2000). In., vol. CPMP/ICH/539/00. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
49/49 
@EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
