EMA/410916/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002618 
EPAR summary for the public 
Nexium Control 
esomeprazole  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Nexium Control. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Nexium Control. 
For practical information about using Nexium Control, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Nexium Control and what is it used for? 
Nexium Control is a medicine that contains the active substance esomeprazole. It is used in adults for 
the short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (sometimes called acid reflux), such as heartburn and 
acid regurgitation.  
Nexium Control is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorized in the European Union (EU) 
containing the same active substance, called Nexium. The reference medicine is only available with a 
prescription, but Nexium Control is intended for short term use without a prescription.  
How is Nexium Control used? 
Nexium Control can be obtained without a prescription. It is available as tablets (20 mg) which are 
gastro-resistant (the contents pass through the stomach without being broken down until they reach 
the intestine). The recommended dose is one tablet per day for up to 2 weeks until the symptoms are 
relieved. If symptoms persist after 2 weeks, the patient should see a doctor. For further information, 
see the package leaflet.  
How does Nexium Control work? 
The active substance in Nexium Control, esomeprazole, is a proton pump inhibitor. It works by 
blocking ‘proton pumps’, proteins found in specialised cells in the stomach lining, which pump acid into 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the stomach. By blocking the pumps, esomeprazole reduces acid production, thereby relieving the 
symptoms of acid reflux. 
What benefits of Nexium Control have been shown in studies? 
Nexium Control has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving 
718 adult patients with reflux symptoms including heartburn. The patients were treated for 4 weeks. 
The main measure of effectiveness in both studies was the percentage of patients whose heartburn 
symptoms had completely cleared up at the end of the study.  
In the first study, around 34% of patients taking a 20 mg dose of Nexium Control (41 out of 121) had 
no more heartburn symptoms, compared with around 14% of patients  taking placebo (17 out of 124). 
In the second study, around 42% of patients  taking Nexium Control (47 out of 113) had no more 
heartburn symptoms, compared with around 12% of patients  taking placebo (14 out of 118). In both 
studies, most patients whose symptoms completely cleared up had already achieved this in the first 2 
weeks, while patients whose symptoms did not completely clear up in 2 weeks showed little further 
improvement from continued treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Nexium Control? 
Headache, abdominal pain, diarrhoea and nausea are among the most common side effects with 
Nexium Control (which may affect up to 1 in 10 patients). For the full list of all side effects reported 
with Nexium Control, see the package leaflet. 
Nexium Control must not be used together with another medicine called nelfinavir (used to treat HIV 
infection). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nexium Control approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Nexium Control’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
concluded that the medicine’s effects were already well established, as esomeprazole-containing 
medicines have been authorised in EU countries since 2000, and that its short-term benefits had been 
demonstrated in studies where most patients’ symptoms cleared up in 2 weeks. The Committee 
concluded that patients could safely treat themselves with the medicine for up to 2 weeks.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nexium Control? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Nexium Control is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Nexium Control, including the appropriate precautions to be 
followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Nexium Control 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Nexium Control on 26 August 2013.  
The full EPAR for Nexium Control can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Nexium Control  
EMA/410916/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Nexium Control, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2013. 
Nexium Control  
EMA/410916/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
