20 September 2012 
EMA/648483/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
NexoBrid 
Concentrate of proteolytic enzymes enriched in bromelain 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002246 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 20 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 29 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 36 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 89 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance...........................................................................................110 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................118 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance............................................................................ 118 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
aa 
BLQ  
BSA 
CDU  
CFU 
c.f. 
cm 
CoA 
CPMP 
CPP 
curr. Ed. 
CV 
Da 
DF 
DIN 
DP 
DS 
EDTA-Na2 
EC 
EP 
g 
GACP 
GMP 
HACCP 
HAV 
HVAC 
HCl 
HMPC 
HPLC 
hrs 
ICH 
ICP 
IPA 
IPC 
IR 
ISO 
kDa 
kg 
l 
LAL 
LFGB 
LOD 
LOQ 
MAA 
mg 
ml  
min 
mM 
MVD 
Mw 
NaCl 
NaHSO3 
NaOH 
NGD 
NIR 
nm 
NOAEL 
NoV 
amino acid 
below the Limit of Quantitation 
 Bovine Serum Albumin 
Casein Digestion Unit  
Colony Forming Unit 
compare (abbr. also: cp. from Latin: confer, “compare”) 
Centimeter 
Certificates of Analyses 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products 
Critical Process Parameter 
Current Edition 
Column Volumes 
Dalton 
Diafiltration 
Deutsches Institut für Normierung German Industrial Standard 
Drug Product 
Drug Substance 
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid Disodium salt 
European Commission 
European Pharmacopoeia 
gram(s) 
good agricultural and collection practice 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
Hazard analysis and critical control point 
Hepatitis-A virus 
Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning 
Hydrochloric Acid 
Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products 
high performance liquid chromatography 
Hours 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
inductively coupled plasma 
isopropyl alcohol 
In- Process Controls 
infrared 
International Organization for Standardization 
Kilodalton 
Kilogram(s) 
litre(s) 
Limulus Amoebocyte Lysate 
Lebensmittel-,  Bedarfsgegenstände-  und  Futtermittelgesetzbuch  Law  for 
foodstuffs, consumer goods and feeding stuff (Germany) 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantitation 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
milligram(s) 
millilitre(s) 
minutes 
Millimolar 
Maximum Valid Dilution 
Molecular Weight 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium bisulfite 
sodium hydroxide 
NexoBrid 
Near- Infrared Analysis 
Nanometer 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
Norovirus 
 
 
 
OOS 
OD 
OP 
Pa 
PAMP 
PBS 
PDE 
Ph. Eur. 
pH 
ppm 
PTWI 
QL 
QP 
q.s. 
QWP 
resp. 
RH 
RPM 
RS 
RSD 
RT 
RT 
SD 
SM 
SPC 
TSE 
USP 
UV 
V 
WFI 
WHO 
w/v 
w/w 
Out of Specification 
Optical Density 
Operating Parameter  
Pascal 
pathogen-associated molecular pattern 
phosphate buffered saline 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
European Pharmacopoeia 
power of hydrogen (scale measuring acid / alkaline nature of solution) 
parts per million 
Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake 
Quantitation Limit 
Qualified Person 
quantum satis 
Quality Working Party 
respectively 
Relative humidity 
Revolutions per minute 
Reference Standard 
Relative Standard Deviation 
Room Temperature 
Retention Time 
Standard Deviation 
Starting Material 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
Volt 
Water for Injection 
World Health Organisation 
weight/volume 
weight/weight 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  GmbH  submitted  on  29  October  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for NexoBrid, through the centralised procedure 
falling  within  the  Article  3(1)  and  point  4  of  Annex  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 17 December 2009. 
NexoBrid was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/02/107 on 30 July 2002. NexoBrid was 
designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:    Treatment  of  partial  deep 
dermal and full thickness burns.  
The applicant applied for the following indication:  Timely, selective removal of eschar in patients with 
deep partial- and/or full-thickness burns. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/227/2010 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP EMEA-000142-PIP02-09 was not yet completed as 
some agreed measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
NexoBrid has an Orphan Drug designation. 
On  30  July  2002  orphan  designation  (EU/3/02/107)  was  granted  by  the  European  Commission  for 
purified Bromelain for the treatment of partial deep dermal and full thickness burns.  
Upon  request  by  the  MAH  a  revised  opinion  was  edited  in  June  2010  (14  June  2010 
EMA/COMP/1413/2002 Rev.2). According to the conclusion of this opinion the prevalence of the partial 
deep dermal and full thickness burns affected approximately 1 in 10,000 people in the European Union 
(EU).  
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000,  the  applicant  did  not  submit  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with 
authorised  orphan  medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product  for  a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance concentrate of proteolitic enzymes enriched in bromelain 
contained in the above medicinal product to be considered as a new active substance in itself. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP in NexoBrid on 14 June 2005, 14 May 2008, 
18  December  2008  and  19  February  2009.  The  Protocol  Assistance  pertained  to  quality  and  clinical 
aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Harald Enzmann 
Co-Rapporteur:  RobertJames Hemmings 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 29 October 2010. 
The procedure started on 17 November 2010.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  07  February 
2011.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  04 
February 2011.  
  During the meeting on 17 March 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on 
18 March 2011. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  11 October 
2011. 
 
The  summary  report  of  the  inspection  carried  out  at  the  following  sites:  MediWound  Ltd.,  42 
Hayarkon  St.,  81227  Yavne,  Israel  between  22  and  25  August  2011  and  Analyst  Research 
Laboratories,  12  Hamada  St,  76703  Rehovot,  Israel  on  23  August  2011  was  issued  on  26 
September 2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 28 November 2011. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  12-15  December  2011,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on  10 February 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 9 March 2012. 
  During a meeting of an Ad-hoc Expert group on 7 March 2012, experts were convened to address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  12-15  March  2012,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 12-15 March 2012, the CHMP agreed on a second list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the second CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 24 April 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 9 May 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 21-24 May 2012, outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant 
during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  18-21  June  2012,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  third  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  third  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on  28  June 
2012. 
 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  third 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 11 July 2012. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  16-19  July  2012,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  fourth  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the fourth CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 17 August 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the fourth 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 7 September 2012. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20  September  2012,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
  During the meeting on 17-20 September 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to NexoBrid on 20 September 2012.  
Following  the  CHMP  positive  opinion  on  this  marketing  authorisation,  the  Committee  for  Orphan 
Medicinal Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of NexoBrid as an orphan medicinal product in the 
approved  indication.  The  outcome  of  the  COMP  review  can  be  found  on  the  Agency's  website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find Medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designations.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
2.1.1.  Problem statement 
Debridement  of  eschar  is  essential  to  initiate  the  wound  healing  process  and  prevent  further 
complications. Technology for this treatment in severe burns has not advanced significantly in the past 
few  decades.  Traumatic  surgical  debridement  in  burn  wounds  with  sacrifice  of  healthy  tissue  and 
subsequent skin grafting may be considered in some cases to constitute over-treatment. On the other 
 
hand,  the  conservative  treatment  modality  with  antimicrobial  agents  or  inefficient  chemical 
debridement results in a lengthy sloughing period and delayed healing process, and may therefore be 
considered to constitute under-treatment. 
An  effective  enzymatic  debriding  agent  can  change  this  suboptimal  treatment  paradigm  and  provide 
the basis for first-line minimally invasive treatment. 
Eschar  is  thick,  leathery,  black  necrotic  tissue  that  has  dried  out.  Debridement  is  essential  to  wound 
healing. Removing necrotic tissue reduces the wound’s biologic burden, clears debris that prevents or 
slows cell movement necessary for healing, and helps prevent infection. “Unroofing” a wound also lets 
health  care  providers  see  the  wound  walls  and  base;  without  debridement  a  burn  wound  cannot  be 
staged.  Enzymes  that  act  on  necrotic  tissue  are  categorized  as  proteolytics,  fibrinolytics,  and 
collagenases, depending on the tissue component they target. 
2.1.2.  About the product 
NexoBrid is an enzyme-based debriding agent that has been developed to be used for timely, selective 
removal of eschar in patients with deep partial and/or full thickness burns and is for cutaneous use. 
The  product  consists  of  a  partially  purified  mixture  of  proteolytic  enzymes  enriched  in  bromelain 
extracted from the stem  of the pineapple plant (Ananas comosus) containing mainly proteases, in an 
acetic acid and ammonium sulphate solution 
The finished product is presented as a lyophilised powder to be mixed with a sterile gel vehicle before 
application. Within 15 minutes after mixing, the product is topically applied under sterile conditions for 
a maximum of 4 hours to the burn wound, at a dose of 0.02 g/cm2. In most cases a single application 
is  sufficient,  however,  it  may  be  applied  for  a  second  time  to  the  same  burn  area  if  medically 
warranted. 
NexoBrid  should  be  applied  topically  to  a  clean  burn  wound  by  a  trained  healthcare  professional  in  a 
specialised burn centre. It can be applied as soon as the wound has been cleaned in accordance with 
the  instructions  described  in  the  product  information.  NexoBrid  should  not  be  applied  to  more  than 
15% Total Body Surface Area (TBSA) in one session and should be left in contact with the burn for a 
duration of 4 hours.  
Before  NexoBrid  application,  a  dressing  soaked  with  an  antibacterial  solution  should  be  applied  for  2 
hours. Preventive pain management should be used as commonly practiced for an extensive dressing 
change.  This  should  be  initiated  at  least  15  minutes  prior  to  NexoBrid  application.  After  removal  of 
NexoBrid  and  the  dissolved  eschar  from  the  wound,  a  dressing  soaked  with  an  antibacterial  solution 
must be applied for an additional 2 hours.  
NexoBrid is not indicated for use in the paediatric population. The experience with NexoBrid in elderly 
patients (>65 years) is limited.  
2.1.3.  Type of Application and aspects on development 
This is a complete application for approval of a new active substance, according to the Article 8(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, through the centralised procedure. 
Regarding the nomenclature for the active substance, the WHO confirmed to the Applicant that an INN 
cannot  be  assigned  to  an  heterogeneous  mixture  of  proteolytic  enzymes,  in  accordance  with  the 
current INN. As ‘No INN’ is applicable to this substance, the common name ‘concentrate of proteolytic 
 
enzymes  enriched  in  bromelain’  is  considered  appropriate  to  describe  the  active  substance  of  the 
product. 
The early development was conducted with the first generation product. 
Improvements in the manufacturing process eventually led to the current to-be-marketed formulation.  
CHMP  provided  scientific  advice  on  various  aspects  of  the  development  of  NexoBrid.  The  clinical 
development plan has been adjusted to align with the given advice.  
NexoBrid has received on an Orphan Drug designation.   
A  Paediatric Investigation  Plan  (PIP)  has  been  agreed.  The  obligation  to  submit  the  results  of  studies 
with NexoBrid in one or more subsets of the paediatric population has been deferred. The planned date 
of completion of the PIP is March 2019. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
NexoBrid  active  substance  (AS)  is  a  concentrate  of  proteolytic  enzymes  enriched  in  bromelain 
extracted  from  the  stems  of  the  pineapple  plant  (Ananas  comosus).  NexoBrid  AS  contains  mainly 
proteases.  
The  finished  product  is  presented  as  a  lyophilised  powder  containing  the  concentrate  of  proteolytic 
enzymes enriched in bromelain and a sterile gel vehicle, for preparation of a gel for cutaneous use. The 
powder is off-white to light tan. The gel is clear and colourless. 
Following  mixing  of  the  powder  with  the  gel,  each  gram  of  the  prepared  medicinal  product  contains 
0.09 g concentrate of proteolytic enzymes enriched in bromelain. 
The composition of the finished product is summarised in the following table: 
Composition of Nexobrid Finished Product 
Component 
Nexobrid Active 
Substance 
Acetic Acid 
Ammonium Sulphate 
Water for Injections 
Grade 
In-house 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
Composition of Gel Vehicle  
Component 
Carbomer 980 
Di-sodium hydrogen 
phosphate, anhydrous 
Sodium hydroxide 
Water for Injections 
Grade 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
Ph. Eur. 
The lyophilised powder is formulated in 50 ml type II glass vials and the sterile gel vehicle is presented 
in 100 ml type I borosilicate glass bottles used to re-suspend the powder.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two packaging sizes are proposed: 2 g NexoBrid powder in 20 g gel vehicle, applied to a burn wound 
area  of  100 cm2  and  5 g  NexoBrid  powder  in  50 g  gel  vehicle,  applied  to  a  burn  wound  area  of 
250 cm2, under occlusion.  
After  mixing  the  lyophilized  powder  with  the  vehicle  in  a  1:10  ratio,  the  product  is  topically  applied 
within 15 minutes and for a maximum of 4 hours to burn wound area, at a dose of 0.02 g/cm2.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
NexoBrid active substance is derived from bromelain. The bromelain is obtained by extraction from the 
stem of the pineapple palnt (Ananas comosus). This is subject to further partial purification resulting in 
a  complex  mixture  of  proteolytic  enzymes,  mainly  comprising  cysteine  proteases,  such  as  stem  and 
fruit  bromelain  as  major  components  and  ananain  and  comosain  in  minor  amounts.    Other  enzymes 
and bromelain inhibitors may also be present in minor amounts.   
The  ratio  of  proteolytic  enzymes  in  this  product  is  different  compared  to  bromelain  herbal  medicinal 
products marketed in some EU member states, which contain a heterogeneous mixture of a wide range 
of molecules. In addition, for a complex biological product such as NexoBrid, it is considered that the 
quality of the product is strictly dependent on the manufacturing process and its control. In view of the 
significant  differences  between  the  manufacturing  processes  of  NexoBrid  and  bromelain  products, 
which  result  in  a  different  composition  of  the  mixtures  of  substances,  it  is  concluded  that  the  active 
substance  contained  in  NexoBrid  is  to  be  qualified  as  a  new  active  substance  in  itself,  in  accordance 
with Directive 2011/83/EC.  
Given  that  this  product  is  derived  from  botanical  starting  materials  and  contains  biologically  active 
components,  including  proteolytic  enzymes,  it  is  appropriate  that  relevant  herbal  and  biological 
guidelines are both applied. 
WHO  confirmed  on  16th  December  2010  that  an  INN  is  not  applicable  in  this  case,  as  it  could  not  be 
assigned  to  a  heterogeneous  mixture  of  proteolytic  enzymes.  Therefore  the CHMP  considers  the 
following  common  name  to  be  the  most  appropriate  to  describe  NexoBrid  active  substance: 
‘concentrate of proteolytic enzymes enriched in bromelain'. 
The  applicant  presented  comprehensive  characterisation  data,  which  allow  identification  and 
quantification  of  key  of  components  of  NexoBrid.  HPLC  analysis  demonstrated  that  the  product 
contains the proteolytic enzymes required to support the proposed mechanism of action. HPLC analysis 
also showed to determine the relative proportions of each of the key of constituents in terms of their 
structure  and  function,  not  only  for  proteolytic  enzymes  but  also  enzyme  degradation  products.  This 
data  also  allowed  identification  of  key  markers  for  the  potency  assay.  The  development  of  a  potency 
assay  further  substantiates  the  theory  that  the  eschar  produced  by  burning  of  the  skin  is  a  key 
substrate  for  debriding  activity  of  the  product,  and  that  debriding  results  from  stem  bromelain  and 
ananain components.  
Manufacture 
Taking  into  account  the  definition  of  starting  materials  for  biological  medicinal  products  (Annex  I  to 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended) and the relevant herbal guidelines (CPMP/QWP/2819/00 Rev 1 and 
CPMP/QWP/2820/00  Rev  1),  the  pineapple  stems  are  defined  as  the  herbal  starting  material  and 
Bromelain as an intermediate product for the manufacture of NexoBrid active substance.  
The  overall  manufacturing  process  of  NexoBrid  active  substance  is  divided  into  two  stages.  The  first 
stage is extraction of juice from peeled pineapple stems and further manufacturing to yield Bromelain, 
 
which  is  done  at  a  subcontracted  site.  The  second  stage  is  further  processing  of  Bromelain  into 
NexoBrid active substance which is done at site MediWound Ltd., Israel. 
The manufacturing process of NexoBrid active substance starts at a subcontracted site with peeling of 
the  pineapple  stems.  The  stems  are  crushed,  the  juice  is  extracted  and  after  further  processing  the 
extract  is  lyophilised  to  obtain  the  bromelain.  This  powder  is  packed  and  stored.  In  summary,  the 
manufacturing  process  of  Bromelain  from  pineapple  plant  stems  consists  of  eight  steps  as  detailed 
below:  
1. Peeling of the pineapple stems and Transfer  
2. Crushing  
3. Juice Extraction 
4. Separations  
5. Filtration  
6. Concentration  
7. Lyophilisation  
8. Packaging and Storage  
After  shipping  the  Bromelain  to  MediWound  Ltd.,  the  manufacturing  process  of  NexoBrid  active 
substance continues with the following steps:  
1. Suspension  
2. Filtration through filter   
3. Separations 
4. Re-suspension  
5. Filtrations  
6. Concentration 
Bromelain is suspended. Following filtration, the solution goes through separations and filtrations. The 
solution  is  concentrated  to  become  NexoBrid  active  substance.  Following  filtration  steps  NexoBrid 
active substance is stored. Reprocessing is not applied for.   
Process Controls 
Process-related  and  product-related  in-process  controls  (IPCs)  and  operational  parameters  together 
with the respective acceptance criteria were described, and reviewed. 
The  applicant  has  summarised  all  IPCs  of  the  active  substance  manufacturing  process  indicating  the 
critical IPCs and has justified which IPCs have binding acceptance criteria and those ones having action 
limits. Acceptable rationale and justification for the classification of the IPCs in critical and non-critical 
process  controls as well as a definition for IPCs, operating parameters and critical operational control 
parameters are considered acceptable. 
Control of Materials and Starting Material 
All  reagents  and  solvents  used  during  NexoBrid  active  substance  manufacture  starting  from  the 
pineapple  plant  are  Ph.  Eur.  grade.  There  are  only  two  non-compendial  raw  materials  used  in  the 
Bromelain manufacturing process.  
The  procedures  involved  in  cultivating  and  harvesting  of  the  pineapple  plant  stems  adhere  to  the 
concept of Good Manufacturing Practice for the herbal starting material based on the requirements of 
the Guideline EMEA/HMPC/246816/05  “Good Agricultural and Collection Practice for starting materials 
 
 
 
of  Herbal  Origin”.  Procedures  and  tests  used  to  control  the  quality  of  herbal  starting  material  are 
comparable and consistent with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph “Herbal Drugs: 1433” and 
the relevant herbal guidelines.    
A  detailed  description  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  Bromelain  including  the  respective  IPCs, 
information  on  quality  and  quantity  of  all  materials  and  reagents  used  as  well  as  on  storage  and 
shipping  conditions  was  provided.  The  concentrations  of  the  reagents  used  in  the  manufacturing 
process of Bromelain are comprehensible and justified.  
An  adequate  specification  for  Bromelain  set  by  the  manufacturer,  as  well  as  the  specification  of  the 
material on receipt at MediWound Ltd. is presented. The acceptance criteria for Bromelain specification 
have been adopted according to the requirements of the Ph.Eur. 5.1.4. The testing for impurities such 
as pesticides, toxic (heavy) metals and aflatoxins in the release of the active substance instead of the 
starting material is considered acceptable.  
Process Validation 
Appropriate  validation  data  for  the  entire  active  substance  manufacturing  process  was  provided  to 
demonstrate  that  the  proposed  manufacturing  process  is  reproducible  and  capable  of  consistently 
producing  the  active  substance,  meeting  predefined  in-process  parameters  and  a  predefined 
specification. 
Process  validation  data  comprise  the  manufacturing  processes  of  the  bromelain  starting  with  the 
extraction of the pineapple stems. Process validation data of consecutive manufacturing validation runs 
of  the  Bromelain  manufacturing  process  and  of  consecutive  validation  batches  of  NexoBrid  active 
substance  manufacturing  process  were  provided.  Additionally,  sufficient  data  is  presented  which 
confirm product consistency by analytical evaluation of key marker constituents by HPLC assays as well 
as potency indicating assays. This is considered adequate to demonstrate process consistency.  
Process Development 
The manufacturing process of NexoBrid was first established in the 1980's. Following several transfers 
in 2001 the product was finally transferred to MediWound Ltd. where it was renamed Debrase and then 
NexoBrid. 
Since  the  forerunner  materials  were  only  used  for  some  of  the  non-clinical  studies,  a  detailed 
comparability  exercise  relating  to  these  manufacturing  processes  is  not  considered  relevant.  The 
MediWound process was installed in 2001 and some process changes had been reported since January 
2006 up to July 2010. Since 2002, the analytical methods and specifications used to release the active 
substance and the finished product have been continuously changed and/or improved. Clinical studies 
have  been  performed  with  NexoBrid  batches  manufactured  in  a  period  ranging  from  2002  to  April 
2009. Manufacturing changes as well as changes in the analytical procedures have been indicated and 
their  impact  on  product  quality  has  been  thoroughly  studied  and  explained.  The  applicant  provided 
evaluation  of  comparability  of  pre  and  post  change  material  as well  as  evaluation  of  comparability  or 
interchangeability of analytical methods.  
Based  on  the  data  provided,  it  can  be  concluded  that  material  manufactured  with  the  commercial 
manufacturing process is within or close to the qualified acceptance limits of the clinical material. There 
is a slight trend towards higher purity in the commercial batches compared to the clinical batches. 
Characterisation of the active substance 
The  majority  of  characterisation  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  lyophilised  NexoBrid  finished 
product. The presence of different constituents in the heterogenous mixture of proteolytic enzymes has 
 
 
 
been  demonstrated  by  testing  with  several  analytical  methods.  The  identity  of  the  chromatography 
peaks have been extensively investigated using two orthogonal methods, through which the applicant 
was able to quantify the relative proportions of the key constituents. Protein size distribution by HPLC 
and information on characterisation of the main peaks, which form the fingerprint of the profile, were 
also provided. 
The heterogeneity pattern, i.e. the relative ratio of the main components and thus the consistency of 
product  composition  can  be  monitored  by  the  establishment  of  validated  HPLC  assays  that  were 
introduced into the release specification.  
It  is  concluded  that  the  applicant  has  identified  and  can  control  key  components  relevant  to  product 
quality.  
Further analysis of NexoBrid finished product have been performed.  
The glycoprofile of NexoBrid active substance is considered sufficiently investigated. Data on the Total 
monosaccharides,  the  most  abundant  monosaccharide  and  on  N-glycan  in  NexoBrid  active  substance 
were investigated and provided.  
The potency of NexoBrid finished product was tested by several methods. The relevance and adequacy 
of  the  limits  for  the  potency  assays  are  considered  acceptable  at  present.  One  assay  has  been 
introduced only recently and the number of batches available to be tested is as yet limited.  
Several  process-related  impurities  were  found  below  the  respective  limits  of  detection  and  are 
considered not necessary to be controlled at release. Other process-related  impurities are adequately 
controlled  through  the  specifications.  Concentration  of  one  reagent  is  significantly  below  the 
recommended upper limit for exposure. Control of heavy metals and testing of pesticide residues and 
aflatoxins  will  be  performed  at  the  level  of  the  finished  product.  Potential  carry-over  of  components 
used in the manufacturing process of Bromelain into NexoBrid active substance has been investigated. 
Therefore, it is concluded that the active substance manufacturing steps are resulting in removal of the 
reagents to relatively low levels with a wide margin of safety. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specifications  have  been  updated  according  to  the  CHMP’s  various  requests 
during the marketing authorisation procedure to include new tests and acceptance limits for purity and 
tightened  pH  limits.  References  to  the  analytical  methods  were  included  for  each  test  parameter.  All 
analytical methods have been appropriately validated. 
To  control  product-related  impurities,  HPLC  analyses  have  been  included  in  the  active  substance 
specification.  Control  of  process-related  impurities,  residuals,  toxic  (heavy)  metals,  pesticides  and 
aflatoxins, are performed at the level of the finished product and it is considered acceptable. Bioburden 
determination has been also included into the active substance specification.  
The justification for specification is considered adequate to control the active substance. However, the 
applicant  is  recommended  to  re-evaluate  the  active  substance  as  well  as  the  finished  product 
specifications after testing of 20 batches manufactured according to the current processes. The review 
should include the procedures for qualification and implementation of the in-house reference standard. 
Depending  on  the  outcome  of  the  re-evaluation,  specifications  for  the  active  substance  and  finished 
product should be updated to introduce new limits through a variation procedure. 
Stability 
NexoBrid active substance is intended to be directly processed to the finished product.  
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
NexoBrid finished product is provided as a lyophilised powder of NexoBrid active substance in a 50 ml 
type II glass vial stoppered with a type I bromobutyl rubber lyophilisation stopper and sealed with an 
aluminium  cap.  The  excipients  in  NexoBrid  finished  product  are  acetic  acid  and  ammonium  sulphate. 
NexoBrid finished product is reconstituted with a gel vehicle presented in 100 ml glass bottles.  
Two  different  dose  sizes  are  supplied:  2 g  of  lyophilised  powder  and  20 g  of  gel  vehicle,  and  5 g  of 
lyophilised powder and 50 g of gel vehicle. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The formulation of NexoBrid finished product was not changed from pivotal toxicology studies, clinical 
development programme through to the final commercial process. The current gel vehicle formulation 
was  used  for  the  Phase  III  trials,  Compatibility  of  NexoBrid  finished  product  and  gel  vehicle  had  not 
been  satisfactorily  demonstrated  in  the  initial  quality  dossier.  New  compatibility  (in-use  stability) 
studies  at  25°C  and  37°C  have  been  performed  demonstrating  that  NexoBrid  degrades  within  hours 
after  mixing.  The  applicant’s  conclusion  that  the  product  should  be  used  immediately  after  mixing  is 
therefore supported.  
Manufacture of the product 
The site MediWound Ltd., Israel is responsible for manufacture of NexoBrid active substance, NexoBrid 
finished product and for the gel vehicle. European release testing of NexoBrid finished product and gel 
is  intended  to  take  place  at  Teva  in  Gödöllő,  Hungary,  and  batch  release  for  the  EEA  at  Teva  in 
Haarlem, The Netherlands.  
The manufacturing process consisting of sterile filtration of the active substance solution, aseptic filling 
and lyophilisation underwent adjustments throughout development. Changes comprised two fold scale-
up, supplier of rubber stoppers, analytical methods, specifications and lyophilisation cycle. The current 
cycle  was  applied  for  all  Phase  III  clinical  trial  supplies,  the  developmental  lyophilisation  conditions 
were applied in the manufacture of some Phase II clinical batches.  
A  recent  change  of  the  finished  product  manufacturing  process  was  investigated  on  its  relevance  for 
the clinical data. A comparability exercise showed results for the commercial batches within or close to 
the  range  of  experience  of  the  clinical  batches,  thus  demonstrating  that  the  clinical  data  are  still 
relevant in this regard. 
The manufacture of NexoBrid finished product is performed in two scales. 
For  the  finished  product  manufacturing  process,  additional  limits  have  been  included  in  the  list  of  in-
process  controls  for  the  finished  product  upon  request.  Insufficient  validation  data  for  the  previous 
manufacturing  process  had  been  classified  as  major  objection  during  the  procedure.  The  revised 
manufacturing process has been validated for the 5 g presentation and for the 2 g presentation. Based 
on  the  presented  validation  data,  the  revised  finished  product  manufacturing  process  is  considered 
robust and consistently resulting in a finished product conforming to the pre-defined specifications. 
 
 
 
 
Product specification 
The  applicant  provided  a  specification  for  the  NexoBrid  finished  product  as  well  as  for  the  NexoBrid 
powder  and  gel  vehicle  mixture  for  routine  batch  release  and  stability  testing.  The  finished  product 
specifications  have  been  reviewed  and  revised  during  the  marketing  authorisation  procedure,  in  the 
light  of  additional  characterisation information.  The  HPLC  test  for  composition  has  been  appropriately 
validated and considered suitable for purpose. Likewise the potency assays are acceptable markers for 
consistency.  A  detailed  description  of  the  newly  introduced  potency  assay  to  determine  activity  is 
missing  but  a  validation  study  has  been  reported.  The  batch  data  available  for  this  potency  assay  is 
limited.  Further  justification  should  be  provided  for  the  adequacy  of  the  chosen  potency  markers  and 
their  assays  to  determine  the  overall  debriding  activity  of  this  complex  mixture  in  the  absence  of  a 
standardised  ex  vivo  or  in  vitro  assay,  see  section  “Recommendation(s)  for  future  quality 
development”.  
Purity,  activity,  and  limits  for  residuals  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  preclinical 
assessment  have  been  implemented  in  the  finished  product  specification.  However,  the  limit  of  one 
residual  needs  re-evaluation,  see  section  “Recommendation(s)  for  future  quality  development”. 
Endotoxin control is ensured throughout the manufacturing process, based on control of materials used 
in  the  process  and  a  strict  bioburden  control  at  all  stages  of  the  manufacturing  process.  Test  on 
reconstitution time of the lyophilisate in the gel vehicle have been implemented in the specification for 
NexoBrid  finished  product  and  gel  vehicle  mixture.  For  heavy  metals,  more  stringent  limits  than  for 
oral  exposure  are  applied.  The  specification  for  toxic  (heavy)  metal  has  been  revised.  Also,  the 
acceptance limits for mercury and arsenic have been tightened in line with the batch data respectively 
by using a more sensitive analytical method.  
The  limits  of  all  specifications  for  composition  and  potency,  should  be  reviewed  once  more  data  is 
available,  particularly  potency/activity  assay.  Qualification  and  implementation  of  the  new  reference 
standard according to the latest procedures, and including the potency assay, should be included in the 
review.  This 
review  may  be  completed  as  a  post-approval  commitment,  see  section 
“Recommendation(s) for future quality development”.  
All release batch data provided comply with the proposed specification and for those tests available at 
the  time  of  testing,  the  methods  are  deemed  suitable  and  validated.  The  approach  of  measuring 
impurities at the finished product level, but not at the active substance level is considered acceptable 
although some quantitative differences are expected.  
Container Closure System 
The  commercial  container  closure  system  for  both  presentations  of  the  finished  product  comprises  a 
50 ml  clear  Type  II  glass  vial  with  a  32 mm  neck  and  a  siliconised  bromobutyl  rubber  stopper 
complying  with  the  respective  Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  current  rubber  stopper  was  not  used  for 
clinical supplies; however the previous stopper also consisted of bromobutyl rubber. Batch results and 
stability testing results of NexoBrid finished product with previous and current rubber stopper showed 
no  significant  differences.  Extractables  studies  for  the  current  rubber  stoppers  were  performed. 
Leachable  studies  for  the  container  closure  system  which  were  omitted  in  the  primary  quality 
documentation have now been presented. None of the potential leachables were detected. The choice 
of the container closure system is adequate with respect to the use of the product. The 32 mm neck of 
the  vial  should  provide  sufficient  space  to  remove  NexoBrid  finished  product  for  mixing  in  the  bottle 
containing the gel vehicle. The vials are also considered adequate to support the stability of NexoBrid 
finished  product  based  on  the  data  provided  for  leachable  studies,  container  closure  integrity  tests, 
manufacturing process validation and stability studies. 
 
 
Stability of the product 
The  applicant  proposes  a  finished  product  shelf-life  of  36  months  at  5±3°C.  After  reconstitution  the 
product should be used immediately (i.e. within 15 minutes).  
Four stability studies with finished product batches produced according to the previous manufacturing 
process had been performed at real-time conditions of 5±3°C and accelerated conditions of 25°C/60% 
RH  reflecting  development  progress.  The  stability  data  reported  in  the  original  dossier  is  in  principle 
considered  relevant  for  the  revised  finished  product.  However,  the  originally  provided  data  did  not 
comprise  all  stability  indicating  tests,  e.g.  the  test  on  purity  with  HPLC  was  missing  in  all  stability 
studies.  Updated  results  for  the  ongoing  previous  stability  studies  had  been  provided.  Though  results 
for  the  newly  introduced  stability  indicating  tests  are  limited,  the  stability  data  of  batches 
manufactured with the previous manufacturing process is considered relevant for the commercial drug 
product. 
Three batches of each presentation of the revised commercial manufacturing process using the current 
container closure system were submitted into a real time stability study (5±3°C), in both upright and 
inverted  positions.  For  accelerated  stability  studies  (25  ±  2°C/  60  ±  5%  RH)  one  batch  of  each 
presentation  was  submitted  into  a  stability  study  in  both  the  upright  and  inverted  positions.  The 
previously missing tests such as activity assay have been also included into the stability protocols.  
Three months stability data are presented for all batches of the NexoBrid finished product. There was 
an  out-of-specification  result  after  one  month  for  one  batch  stored  at  2-8°C  in  inverted  position  with 
respect to HPLC testing. However it was found to be a typographical error.  
The  current  stability  results  are  in  general  stable  was  found  over  time,  but  there  are  out-of-
specification results with respect to water content and pH in water. However, there does not appear to 
be  a  trend  and  the  out-of-specification  results  are  sporadic.  The  cause  is  currently  not  known.  Water 
contents in the previous stability studies were well within the specification limits with no obvious trend.  
The  proposed  shelf-life  for  both  presentations  of  the  drug  product  of  36  months  when  stored  at  5  ± 
3°C is accepted based on all available stability data. However, the applicant is advised that the shelf-
life  may  have  to  be  altered  depending  on  further  investigations  on  possible  causes  of  the  out-of-
specification  results  and  the  results  of  the  ongoing  stability  studies.  In  accordance  with  EU  GMP 
guidelines any confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to 
the Rapporteur and EMA. 
Photostability  testing  shows  that  a  “Protect  from  Light”  statement  is  not  required  in  the  product 
information.  
New  in-use  stability  studies  with  samples  produced  in  accordance  with  the  revised  manufacturing 
process  demonstrate  that  the  digestive  potency  of  the  product  decreases  steadily  following  mixing. 
This finding is included in the labelling texts. 
Gel Vehicle 
The  formulation  of  the  current  gel  is  derived  from  a  historical  formulation  and  the  choice  of  the 
composition  is  comprehensible  and  acceptable.  The  constituents  are  appropriate  for  the  required  pH 
range  and  are  suitable  for  the  administration  in  the  wound  scenario.  The  excipients  used  are  in 
accordance with pharmacopoeia quality. 
Two  different  presentations  are  available  according  to  the  different  sizes  of  the  finished  product.  In 
both cases, 20 g and 50 g size, the gel is presented in 100 ml glass bottles. 
 
The  overall  volume  of  the  bottles  is  sufficient  for  effective  mixing  with  NexoBrid  finished  product  and 
for removal of the constituted gel for administration. The applicant demonstrates that the mouth of the 
glass  bottles  is wide  enough  to  facilitate  extraction  of  the  final,  mixed  product.  The  glass  bottles  and 
polypropylene screw caps are manufactured with reference to the Ph. Eur. Studies on extractables and 
leachables were performed taking into account the conditions of the intended use. Small quantities of 
extractables  and  leachables  were  found  and  it  is  justified  that  the  amounts  found  do  not  give  rise  to 
concerns. 
During  the  manufacturing  process  development  the  batch  size  was  scaled  up.  The  scale-up  process 
was confirmed by sufficient batch data. 
The  sterilisation  process  for  NexoBrid  gel  vehicle  was  modified  during  the  marketing  authorisation 
procedure.  The  manufacturing  of  the  gel  vehicle  is  a  conventional  process.  The  manufacturing  of  the 
gel vehicle is a conventional process.  
Suitable  operating  parameters  and  IPCs  with  appropriate  acceptance  criteria  were  defined  for  the 
manufacturing steps.  In view of the process changes full validation of the revised, commercial process 
was performed. Validation on the basis of two batches of the 50 g presentation and one batch of the 
20 g presentation of gel vehicle is reasonable. Review of critical manufacturing steps, accuracy of filling 
process, homogeneity and bioburden during filling process and release testing of the validation batches 
of gel vehicle ensures the validity of the revised manufacturing process.  
Due to the change in the manufacturing process, the formulation of the gel vehicle and the fill weights 
have been revised, in order to achieve comparability with the gel vehicle used for clinical trial supplies.  
The test methods and the proposed specifications for the routine batch release and stability testing of 
the gel vehicle are described in the table below. 
The parameter extractable weight is added in the release and shelf-life specification of gel vehicle with 
a  specification  which  is  sufficient  to  control  and  define  the  dosage.  The  proposed  pH  range  has  been 
revised.  The specification for the parameter viscosity is also tightened to reflect the improvements in 
the  manufacturing  process.  A  risk  assessment  regarding  potential  impurities  or  degradation  products 
arising  from  the  manufacturing  process  in  the  gel  vehicle  is  provided  and  it  is  considered  that  the 
criterion of viscosity of the final gel vehicle provides the control necessary to ensure consistency of the 
vehicle in terms of the degree of degradation during the terminal sterilisation step.  
Since the submission of results of clinical trials in paediatric patients has been deferred in the PIP, the 
calculation  of  endotoxin  limits  for  this  population  can  also  be  postponed  until  the  PIP  has  been 
completed. 
A comprehensive programme of stability testing on gel vehicle under the proposed storage conditions, 
for  the  full  proposed  shelf  life  of  36  months  is  presented.  The  gel  vehicle  was  stored  in  the  upright 
position only. However, a supportive stability study was performed which investigated both upright and 
inverted position. No trends towards increasing or decreasing values were observed for any of the test 
parameters. Additionally, a stability study using batches of gel vehicle manufactured according to the 
current commercial process was initiated, stored in the upright and inverted positions.  
A  photostability  study  was  performed  using  representative  batches  of  both  the  (20g  and  50g 
presentation.  The  test  criteria  sufficiently  identify  instability  of  the  gel  vehicle.  Based  on  the 
photostability study, a warning to protect the gel vehicle from exposure to light has been included in 
both  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  the  package  leaflet.  The  proposed  warning  states: 
“NexoBrid  must  be  stored  upright  to  keep  the  gel  at  the  bottom  of  the  bottle  and  in  the  original 
package to protect from light”.  
The additional advice to always store the package in the upright position is justified to be on the safe 
side. The shifting of the gel into the top of the bottle would not affect the performance of the product 
 
but  scraping  off  the  gel  may  be  inadequate  for  the  use.  Additionally, it is  confirmed  that  on  all  outer 
packaging  used  for  the  shipping  and/or  distribution  of  NexoBrid  it  will  be  clearly  state  “Store  in  an 
upright position”. 
A shelf-life of 36 month stored at 5 ± 3°C for the gel vehicle is acceptable as confirmed, by the results 
of the pivotal stability studies and the supportive stability studies. 
Adventitious Agents Safety Evaluation 
No  raw  materials  of  animal  or  human  origin  are  used  during  the  production  of  NexoBrid  finished 
product. The only biological materials used are the pineapple stems. The risk of viral contamination of 
the pineapple stems was assessed and found to be mainly attributable to the environmental exposure 
(cultivation  and  storage  of  harvest  in  open  field  conditions)  and  the  exposure  to  workers.  The 
transmission  of  zoonotic  viruses  by  animals  or  of  human  pathogenic  viruses  transferred  through  the 
direct contact of infected workers with the plant constitutes a risk which should be controlled as far as 
possible,  particularly  considering  the  extensive  systemic  exposure  through  the  wound  bed  of  this 
product in immunologically unbalanced patients. The virus inactivating capacity of the active substance 
manufacturing process has been determined by conducting a virus validation study. The results of the 
study  demonstrate  that  the  process  is  solely  effective  in  inactivating  some  viruses  but  ineffective  for 
other viruses. This is a rather critical finding, since the viruses which were not sufficiently inactivated 
are  viruses  associated  with  food  contamination.  They  are  listed  in  the  FDA  “Guidance  for  Industry: 
Guide to Minimize Microbial Food Safety Hazards of Fresh-cut Fruits and Vegetables” both as foodborne 
pathogens  associated  with  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  and  pathogens  transmitted  by  food  that  has 
been contaminated by infected employees. The active substance manufacturing process does not offer 
a  safety  margin  for  virus  inactivation  in  case  of  a  potential  contamination  with  these  or  other  even 
more resistant viruses.  
The  Applicant  has  performed  a  more  in-depth  risk  assessment  focusing  on  the  exposure  of  the 
pineapple  stems  to  a  direct  contamination  source  such  as  infected  workers  or  animals.  Data  on  the 
tenacity of relevant viruses on peeled and unpeeled stems have not been provided, which would have 
been  helpful  to  assess  the  actual  risk  for  transmission.  Nevertheless,  as  requested  during  the 
procedure,  a  step-wise  risk  mitigation  strategy  has  been  proposed  and  integrated  into  the  process  to 
ensure the virus safety of the product  as also requested  by the Guideline on the Quality of Biological 
Active 
Substances 
Produced 
by 
Stable 
Transgene 
Expression 
in  Higher 
Plants 
(EMA/CHMP/BWP/48316/2006).  Key  features  of  this  strategy  are  the  storage  of  the  pineapple  stems 
during harvest and transportation in dedicated closed containers, harvesting farmers using protecting 
wear  (including  gloves)  and  routine  testing  of  Bromelain  for  such  viruses  performed  by  MediWound. 
Furthermore,  the  applicant  has  investigated  the  feasibility  of  modifying  the  manufacturing  process 
through  introduction  of  a  nanofiltration  step  for  clearance  of  adventitious  viruses.  However,  the 
Applicant does not consider the risk of potential viral contamination such as to warrant the introduction 
of  such  a  step.  This  is  deemed  acceptable,  although  the  applicant  is  encouraged  to  consider 
implementing this step in the future, since this would confer a considerably higher level of virus safety 
for the product and patient. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  satisfactory  quality  dossier  for  NexoBrid,  both  for  the  active  substance, 
the  powder  and  the  gel  vehicle  including  product  characterisation,  the  choice  of  parameters  to 
determine potency and biological activity and evaluation of batch to batch consistency. The virus safety 
 
 
has been addressed satisfactorily by an extensive risk assessment and the implementation of a step-
wise risk mitigation strategy.  
In accordance with the relevant herbal guidelines the pineapple plant/stems are defined as the starting 
material  and  Bromelain  as  an  intermediate  in  the  active  substance  manufacturing  process.  Extensive 
additional  characterisation  has  been  performed,  allowing  the  choice  of  parameters  to  determine 
relative composition of key constituents and markers for potency to be identified and employed for the 
evaluation  of  batch  to  batch  consistency.  Validation  and  thus  reproducibility  and  consistency  of  the 
proposed  NexoBrid  active  substance  manufacturing  process  starting  with  the  extraction  of  the 
pineapple stems, has been confirmed.  
The  finished  product  manufacturing  process  has  been  revised  to  ensure  a  constant  concentration  of 
active substance and excipients in the finished product. Furthermore, manufacturing process validation 
demonstrates that the process is robust and consistently resulting in a finished product conforming to 
the  pre-defined  specifications.  The  change  of  the  finished  product  manufacturing  process  does 
apparently not impact the relevance of the clinical data, as shown by a comparability exercise.  
Review and amendment, if applicable, of both active substance and finished product specification limits 
is recommended once more data has been generated for the final commercial product.  
The proposed shelf-life of 36 months for the drug product when stored at 5 ± 3°C is accepted based on 
all  available  stability  data  and  explanations.  However,  the  company  is  advised  to  strictly  follow  its 
commitment to monitor the ongoing stability studies and to remain vigilant for any trends. 
For  the  gel  vehicle,  the  manufacturing  process  including  the  sterilisation  process  has  been  modified 
and optimised to ensure a reproducibility. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to 
the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give reassurance on viral safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
Re-evaluation  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product  specifications  after  testing  of  20  batches 
manufactured  according  to  the  current  processes.  The  review  should  include  the  procedures  for 
qualification and implementation of the in-house reference standard for the newly introduced potency 
assay.  Depending  on  the  outcome  of  the  re-evaluation,  specifications  for  the  active  substance  and 
finished product should be updated to introduce new limits through a variation procedure. 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  package  for  NexoBrid  consists  of  primary  pharmacological 
investigations  the  forerunner  bromelain  product,  and  5  studies  with  NexoBrid  (2  study  reports;  3 
literature  references).  In  the  absence  of  an  establishment  of  similarity  between  Nexobrid  and  the 
forerunner bromelain product the data with the latter are only seen as supportive.  Further, to support 
the clinical development of NexoBrid, a dose finding study in a pig burn wound model was conducted 
where a VAS scale was used for assessment of debriding activity.  
For  the  evaluation  on  non-clinical  pharmacokinetics  data  from  6  in  vivo  studies  (including  3 
toxicokinetic  studies)  is  available  characterizing  the  absorption  of  NexoBrid  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats, 
New  Zealand  White  (NZW)  rabbits  and  Gottinger  minipigs.  In  all  studies,  NexoBrid  was  administered 
intravenously. The serum disposition of NexoBrid has been investigated in pregnant rats and rabbits in 
association with embryo-foetal development studies in these species and in minipigs in association with 
a single dose toxicity study.  
The  non-clinical  toxicology  program  included  single  dose  toxicity  studies  (minipig  and  domestic  pig), 
genotoxicity  and  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies.  An  additional  study  evaluated  the 
effect of NexoBrid on sensitization. 
The preclinical safety studies in this application (general toxicity studies, reproductive toxicity studies, 
genotoxicity studies and an antigenicity study) were conducted following GLP principles.  No concerns 
over GLP compliance are raised in relation to these studies.   
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
As most of the burn eschar is denatured proteins, enzymatic activity in the product is crucial. In order 
to use a bioassay which is the most relevant to the NexoBrid therapeutic outcome and clinical activity, 
the  enzymatic  activity  of  NexoBrid  was  the  target  of  such  development.  A  validated  bioassay  to 
determine enzymatic activity was provided and a definable linear dose-concentration relationship was 
found. By digesting the eschar, its removal is aided to confer benefit in wound recovery. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The  dose  range  study  was  performed  in  pigs.  The  debriding  activity  was  determined  after  a  4 h 
exposure  based  on  a  6  point  VAS  scale  where  the  amount  of  eschar  remaining  and  the  number  of 
viable patent vessels and punctuate bleeding spots was assessed. When applied on deep burn wounds 
at  concentrations  of  5,  10  or  20%,  the  most  consistent  and  efficient  debriding  activity  was  observed 
with the 10% preparation, even if the best concentration was not as clear as preferable. It could not be 
clearly shown if the average VAS of 4.18 (10%) is really statistically significant better than the average 
VAS of 4.06 (20%). From literature it is known that 35% bromelain in a lipid phase ointment was used 
to  achieve  debridement  of  wounds  (e.g.  Maurer  2001)  and  Wang  et  al.  (2009)  described  that  burn 
healing is dependent on burn site. 
Within  the  acute  dermal  toxicity  study  the  time  setting  compared  to  the  dose  range  study  was 
changed.  While in  the  first  study  the  burned  wounds  were  treated  with  NexoBrid  for  4 h in  the  acute 
toxicity study (GLP) the treatment interval includes 2 x 4 h treatment. It was not shown, why the time 
setting (2 times 4 h) the most effective and safe setting is.  
In response to questions raised by the CHMP during the assessment the applicant submitted data from 
two additional animal studies using the pig burn wound model to support completeness and selectivity 
of debridement where histology results were provided by a blinded dermatohistopathologist.  
Visual  and  histological  results  from  Study  A  suggested  that  post  NexoBrid  treatment  no  eschar  could 
be  detected,  intact  skin  was  unharmed  and  that  remaining  dermis  was  similar  in  thickness  and 
structure  to  that  seen  in  wounds  treated  with  a  control  agent.  Results  from  Study  B  appeared  to 
corroborate  these  findings.  However,  very  little  quantitative  data  (in  comparison  to  study  A)  were 
provided with regard to depth of remaining dermis and comparison to controls for this study.  
Overall the Applicant has shown to an acceptable degree in the animal studies that NexoBrid does not 
remove  healthy  tissue  and  fully  removes  eschar  from  wounds.  However,  these  data  are  only 
considered  supportive  in  nature  and  generally  animal  data  should  not  be  used  where  it  is  feasible  to 
generate human data. 
Further  literature  references 1 2   were  added.  The  first  literature  reference  demonstrated  efficient 
debriding  activity  and  selectivity  (effect  limited  to  damaged  or  denatured  collagen  with  no  effect  on 
normal or native collagen). The most important limitation of this study is the fact that the study was 
limited  to  the  first  48 h  after  injury.  The  second  literature  study  has  demonstrated  that  rapid 
enzymatic  debridement  of  deep  partial-thickness  burns  with  NexoBrid 
results 
in  earlier 
reepithelialisation  and  cellular  proliferation  in  pigs,  when  compared  with  the  Vehicle  Gel  and  topical 
antibiotic dressing alone. The most important limitation of that study was that most burns were deep 
dermal, and the results may differ in both deeper and less superficial burns. Obviously, healing of the 
exposed  dermis  greatly  depends  on  the  dressing  used  to  protect  the  dermis  and  the  epithelialisation 
process.  This  is  confirmed  by  Wasiak  et  al.  (2008) 3   which  compared  clinical  studies  with  different 
wound dressings. They concluded that a number of dressings appear to have some benefit over other 
products in the management of superficial and partial thickness wounds. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No  secondary  Pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  conducted  with  NexoBrid.  The  general 
pharmacological  properties  of  different  bromelain  products  have  been  reviewed  in  the  published 
literature. In addition to the debriding effect, main pharmacological activities explored for therapeutic 
use  include  anti-inflammatory,  antithrombotic  and  anticoagulant  effects  as  well  as  anti-tumour 
activities  and  support  of  digestion.  All  of  these  latter  activities  have  been  investigated  using  the  oral 
route  of  administration  and  with  repeated  dosing.  Therefore,  use  of  bromelain  (orally)  can  be 
considered to be well-established. Therefore, no further studies are deemed necessary. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No  standard  safety  pharmacology  studies  have  been  conducted  with  NexoBrid.  NexoBrid  consists  of 
plant-derived  proteases  that  are  to  be  applied  dermally  for  a  limited  time  period  and  that  the  acute 
toxicity  study  performed  in  minipigs  did  not  show  any  effects  on  vital  organ  system.  Clinical  safety 
data  on  vital  organ  systems  was  obtained  from  early  clinical  investigations  and  thereafter.  Patients 
requiring NexoBrid treatment are closely monitored and the restriction of the body area which can be 
1 Singer AJ, McClain SA, Taira BR, Rooney J, Steinhauff N, Rosenberg L. Rapid and selective enzymatic debridement of porcine 
comb burns with bromelain-derived NexoBrid: acute-phase preservation of noninjured tissue and zone of stasis. J Burn Care Res. 
2010 Mar-Apr;31(2):304-9.  
2 Singer AJ, McClain SA, Taira BR, Rooney J, Steinhauff N, Rosenberg L. The effect of rapid enzymatic debridement of deep partial-
thickness with NexoBrid on wound reepithelialization in swine. J Burn Care Res. 2010 Sep-Oct; 31 (5): 795-802. 
3 Wasiak J, Cleland H, Campbell F. Dressings for superficial and partial thickness burns. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Oct 
8;(4):CD002106. Review. 
                                               
 
treated  as well as the number of treatment courses will decrease the plasma levels of bromelain and 
therefore  the  risk  associated  with  NexoBrid  treatment.  The  available  clinical  data  did  make  further 
nonclinical safety pharmacology data not necessary. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The potential pharmacodynamic interaction at the site of application was investigated between  
the  forerunner  product  and  antibiotics  (gentamycin,  silver  sulfadizine,  mafenide  acetate)  and 
/disinfectants (povidoneiodine, silver nitrate). No negative influence on the efficacy was observed when 
these  substances  were  used  prior  to  the  debridement.  A  lower  degree  of  debridement  was  observed 
when silver sulfadizine and povidone-iodine was given concomitantly to the forerunner product. 
Proteolytic  substances  for  wound  care  showed  often  that  antibiotics  or  antiseptics  (in  acidic  range) 
might alter the effectiveness of this enzymatic debridement. This was also shown for some antiseptic 
wound dressings which had influence on collagenase and papain activity (Shi et al. 2010). On the other 
hand there are some information that using debridement agents no concomitant topical antimicrobials 
are needed in chronic-infected wounds (Payne et al. 2008)4. 
No specific nonclinical pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have been conducted with NexoBrid. 
However,  the  studies  concerning  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  conducted  with  the  forerunner 
product were considered sufficient to assess the potential for drug interactions on the wound site. The 
SmPC provides adequate guidance. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  absorption  of  NexoBrid  after  IV  administration  was  investigated  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats,  New 
Zealand  White  (NZW)  rabbits  and  Gottinger  minipigs.  The  i.v.  route  was  considered  adequate  as  it 
allows  one  to  reach  much  higher  exposures  than  dermal  application  (to  evaluate  the  safety  profile  of 
higher systemic exposures). 
The  serum  disposition  of  NexoBrid  has  been  investigated  in  pregnant  rats  and  rabbits  in  association 
with  embryo-foetal  development  studies  in  these  species  and  in  minipigs  in  association  with  a  single 
dose toxicity study using a detection and quantification method.  
In  all  species  used,  the  elimination  from  the  serum  after  a  single  dose  appeared  to  be  bi-phasic  or 
multi-phasic  with  a  terminal  elimination  half-life  generally  in  the  range  of  7-10 h  in  rats  and  rabbits 
and 12-16 h in minipigs. Serum clearance was in the range of 100-130 ml/h·kg in rats and rabbits and 
130-170 ml/h·kg in minipigs and independent of dose. 
There was no gender difference in the kinetics of NexoBrid when this was examined in minipigs, while 
in rats and rabbits only female animals were examined. The observation of a significant increase in the 
systemic clearance of NexoBrid after repeated dosing to pregnant rats and rabbits was suggest to be 
due  to  the  pregnancy  state  of  the  animal  because  this  phenomenon  was  not  seen  in  the  repeat  dose 
i.v.  administration  to  minipigs.  In  this  minipig  study  it  could  be  shown  that  the  clearance  was 
maintained at about the same level in both male and female animals for the duration of the study (3 
administrations a week for 2 weeks). However in the absence of other (confirming) information (e.g. of 
anti-drug  antibody  levels)  this  is  so  far  only  an  assumption.  The  development  of  anti-NexoBrid 
antibodies has been included as important missing information into the RMP and further clinical data is 
planned to be generated in the phase III study (MW2010-03-02). 
4 Payne WG, Salas RE, Ko F, et al (2008). Enzymatic debriding agents are safe in wounds with high bacterial bioburdens and stimulate healing. J 
Plast Surg 8: 151–6 
                                               
Proteinases  similar  to  bromelain  are  rapidly  complexed  with  antiproteinases,  mainly  with  α2-
macroglobulin  and  α1-antitrypsin.  Therefore  for  the  proteases  of  NexoBrid  the  information  are 
sufficient as well as the general information concerning their metabolism and excretion. 
According  to  the  quality  dossier  also  other  constituents  are  present  in  the  NexoBrid  powder 
(monosaccharides,  N-linked  Oligosaccharides,  sterols,  fatty  acids).  For  some  constituents  knowledge 
concerning  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  is  available,  these  data  were  provided.  For  some 
other  constituents  (sterol,  fatty  acids)  their  amounts  within  the  NexoBrid  powder  were  defined  and 
because of their small amount the estimation of safety done by the Applicant can be accepted without 
further knowledge of metabolism etc. 
The Applicant expected no pharmacokinetic interactions affecting the efficacy of the product due to the 
nature of the product (protease enzyme) and the method of administration (dermal application on burn 
wounds). Nevertheless since Bromelain consists of cysteine proteases, it cannot be excluded that they, 
if  present  in  sufficiently  high  circulation  concentrations,  could  inhibit  drug  metabolising  enzymes.  In 
one  literature  report 5   it  was  shown  that  CYP2C9  is  strongly  inhibited  by  bromelain,  however  this 
activity was seen when pineapple juice was added to human liver microsomes. Inhibition studies with 
NexoBrid  were  conducted  assessing  potential  inhibition  of  CYP1A2,  2B6,  2C8,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6  and 
3A4/5  using  pooled  human  liver  microsomes.  At  all  concentrations  tested  (0.15  to  150 μg/ml), 
NexoBrid  caused  complete  or  near  complete  loss  of  activity  of  all  these  enzymes.  When  tested  in 
human  hepatocytes,  NexoBrid  showed  a  different  profile  and  showed  little  or  no  evidence  of  time-
dependent  and/or  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of  CYP2C9,  or  CYP1A2,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6 or CYP3A4/5. In human hepatocytes, NexoBrid did inhibit CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 with IC50s of 
30  and  129 μg/ml,  and  CYP3A4/5  with  an  IC50  of  133 μg/ml.  For  the  other  enzymes  an 
IC50>150 µg/ml  was  determined.  As  the  highest  reported  Cmax  in  the  clinical  setting  is  13.5 μg/ml 
and it is also reported that there is inhibitory activity of α2-macroglobulin on the proteolytic activity of 
NexoBrid,  the  results  overall  suggest  that  it  is  unlikely  that  NexoBrid  will  cause  clinically  significant 
inhibition of any CYP enzyme (see also below “Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials”). However, 
this  potential  for  cytochrome  CYP2C8  and  CYP2C9  inhibition  should  be  considered  in  patients  treated 
with substrates of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9, which is adequately reflected in the SmPC. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The  recommended  dose  of  10%  NexoBrid  gel  to  be  applied  on  the  burn  wound  is  2 g  powder  per 
100 cm2  of  skin  (20 mg/cm2).  The  maximal  recommended  treatment  area  is  given  with  15%  of 
TBSA.  The  average  TBSA  is  given  in  literature  with  1.7 m2  so  the  maximal  recommended  treatment 
area  is  therefore  2550 cm2.  Following  the  initially  proposed  posology  one  burn  wound  area  can  be 
treated  twice  and  30%  of  the  body  area  was  treated  (consecutively)  in  clinical  trials.  So  for  one 
treatment  up  to  51 g  powder  can  be  applied.  All  together  204 g  (3.4 g/kg)  powder  could  come  in 
contact with the burned areas and treatment time might be up to 16 h. 
In most studies minipigs were used for toxicity testing. The reason was given with the similar structure 
and enzyme activity of mini-pig/pig skin compared to human skin. 
Single dose toxicity 
In the dermal toxicity study a dosage of 15-18.5 mg/cm2 was tested. Although the single dose dermal 
study  in  the  pig  wound  model  did  not  have  the  full  monitoring  program  as  per  the  standard  repeat 
dose  study,  the  haematology,  clinical  chemistry,  urinalysis,  organ  weight  measurement  and  the 
5 Hidaka M, Nagata M, Kawano Y, Sekiya H, Kai H, Yamasaki K, et al. Inhibitory effects of fruit juices on cytochrome P450 
2C9 activity in vitro. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2008 Feb;72(2):406-11 
                                               
 
selected histology examinations did not reveal any indication of systemic toxicity. Dermal application of 
the test article to young pigs did not cause any local and systemic toxicological relevant findings when 
applied  to  burn  wounds  in  the  formulation  and  in  the  dosage  regimen  described.  However,  the 
concentration used was not the dosage recommended for human use. The Applicant discussed that due 
to the nature of this model and animal welfare issues only a limited burn area could be inflicted on the 
pigs.  It  was  referred  to  the  i.v.  studies,  were  a  much  higher  exposure  compared  to  the  dermal 
application (to evaluate the safety profile of higher systemic exposures) could be reached. 
The following single-dose i.v. studies were conducted. 
In  the  Rising  Dose  Tolerance  Study  NexoBrid-related  clinical  signs  were  essentially  observed  in  the 
24 mg/kg  single  dose  group.  The  signs  consisted  of  decreased  activity,  shivering,  rapid  breathing, 
impaired mobility, few faeces, decreased food intake, and discoloration in the abdominal region. Effects 
could be monitored until day 6 (m) and day 8 (f), respectively. Single i.v. doses of up to 12 mg/kg of 
NexoBrid  powder  were  well  tolerated  with  only  minor  signs  of  shivering  and  decreased  activity 
observed. This is the 3 fold dosage compared to the maximum human dosage of 3.4 g/kg. 
In  the  first  Single  Dose  Toxicity  Study  (i.v.)  NexoBrid-related  clinical  signs  were  limited  to  the 
24 mg/kg  dose  group  and  included  decreased  activity,  shivering  (m  only),  few  feces,  and  decreased 
food consumption. These signs persisted through day 7 (m) and day 2 (f), respectively. Clinical signs 
related to the dose administration were observed sporadically in all dose groups, including the control 
group, at the injection site and included scabs, reddened areas, skin discoloration and swelling. Based 
on the results obtained, the NOEL for a single dose of NexoBrid powder was determined to 12 mg/kg. 
The attained exposures (Cmax ~40 μg/ml and 75 μg·x·h/ml) at the NOEL was approximately 2.5-fold 
higher  and  2-fold  lower,  respectively,  than  the  maximally  reported  exposures  in  the  clinical  setting 
(Cmax  ~15 μg/ml  and  173 μg·x·h/ml).  Even  if  not  the  intended  route  of  administration  these  two 
studies might support the dermal toxicity study. Nonetheless it could not be shown if the clinical signs 
observed  in  i.v.  studies  are  comparable  with  clinical  signs  to  be  expected  with  higher  dosages  in 
dermal toxicity studies. 
In the second Single Dose Toxicity Study (i.v.) (1 animal per sex/group) minipigs were dosed i.v. with 
NexoBrid  given  to  one  male  and  one  female  at  doses  of  0,  24,  48  and  96 mg/kg  as  a  single  2 h  i.v. 
infusion. Minipigs were scheduled to be killed at day 8. There were unscheduled deaths of both pigs at 
the highest dose, with both dying at around 1 h and 15 min of the intended 2 h infusion. Generalised 
haemorrhaging was considered the cause of death in both pigs. All pigs given the lower doses survived 
to  the  intended  termination.  There  were  no  test  article-related  changes  in  mean  body  weight,  body 
weight  gain,  or  organ  weights  during  the  study.  Prothrombin  time  and  activated  PTT  were  slightly 
increased for 24 and 48 mg/kg/dose males and females on day 2, but returned to baseline values by 
day 8. Several test article-treated animals surviving to study termination had thrombi in the pulmonary 
artery  or  arterioles  that  were  in  various  stages  of  organization.  The  most  serious  of  these  was  the 
24 mg/kg/day male that had a moderate early thrombus in a branch of the pulmonary artery as well 
as a smaller thrombus in an arteriole. The 48 mg/kg/day male and the 24 mg/kg/day female also had 
a  small  thrombus  in  a  pulmonary  arteriole.  The  remaining  tissues/organs  examined  were  essentially 
normal.  Due  to  the  slight,  transient  elevations  of  coagulation  parameters  in  24  and  48 mg/kg/dose 
animals  and  the  pathological  results  (thrombi)  no  NOAEL  can  be  supported.  Furthermore  the  lack  of 
equivalent sample size (1 animal per sex/group is not sufficient) does not allow a correct interpretation 
of the results. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A  2-week,  GLP  conform,  intravenous  dose  toxicity  study  was  conducted.  In  this  study,  minipigs  were 
dosed  i.v.  with  NexoBrid  given  to  four  male  and  four  female  pigs  at  doses  of  0,  4,  8  and  12 mg/kg 
three  times  weekly  for  2  weeks  followed  by  2  weeks  recovery  period.  There  was  one  unscheduled 
death in this study, with one pig at 8 mg/kg having convulsions and showing cyanosis on day 13 – it 
was  killed  on  welfare  grounds.  All  other  pigs  survived  to  the  intended  termination.  In  these  pigs, 
convulsions, ataxia, laboured breathing and decreased food consumption were noted with no apparent 
dose-dependency  but  there  were  no  notable  findings  on  body  weights,  clinical  pathology, 
ophthalmology  or  cardiology.  At  post  mortem,  there  were  increases  in  relative  heart  weight 
(12 mg/kg)  and  decreases  in  relative  thymus  weight  (8  and  12 mg/kg)  and  there  were  findings  of 
haemorrhages  in  multiple  tissues,  including  in  the  thymus  with  cortical  lymphoid  depletion  and 
pancreatic acinar cell degeneration. In recovery group animals, these findings had mostly resolved but 
there still remained minimal haemorrhage in the gall bladder and lymphoid depletion of the thymus. A 
NOAEL could not be determined. 
Genotoxicity 
NexoBrid was tested in a standard battery for genotoxicity. AMES and in vitro cytogenetic assays were 
negative. In vivo a statistically significant (p= 0.0317) increase in micronuclei frequency was measured 
in female mice in the highest tested dose of 2000 mg/kg. The statistical significance is mostly due to 
the low negative control value in females in this study. The mean negative control value was near the 
lower end of the historical negative control range. Also the mean MN frequency measured in the high 
dose group in females was still within the range of historical negative control, though near the upper 
end  of  the  range.  Therefore  the  statistical  significance  was  not  considered  to  also  have  biological 
relevance. It is concluded that NexoBrid does not show a relevant genotoxic potential and there are no 
concerns over any genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity study has been conducted with NexoBrid and no such study has been identified with 
any stem Bromelain product. Die to the lack of any genotoxic activity of NexoBrid and the short-term 
use of the product, carcinogenicity studies are not required. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
The pivotal developmental studies were conducted in rats and rabbits. Both studies were preceded by 
dose  range  finding  studies  and,  as  no  data  from  repeated  dose  studies  were  available,  performed  in 
non pregnant and pregnant animals, respectively. In all studies the compound was administered daily 
for  15 min  via  the  i.v.  route  using  infusion  pumps.  Vehicle  control  groups  were  treated  with  sodium 
chloride. 
The  dosages  selected  for  the  pivotal  study  in  rats  induced  mortality  in  all  dose  groups.  All  remaining 
dams  of  the  high  dose  group  were  euthanized  on  gestation  day  8  to  10  due  to  adverse  clinical  signs 
(decreased body weight gain and food consumption, discoloration and swelling at the injection site). In 
the mid dose group discoloration and swelling at the injection site, scabbing, urine stained abdominal 
fur,  ungroomed  coat,  low  carriage,  and  decreased  motor  activity  were  observed.  No  effects  on  the 
number of corpora lutea, implantations, and live fetuses were noted. Fetal body weights and prenatal 
development  were  unaffected  by  treatment.  Due  to  the  fact  that  no  maternal  NOAEL  could  be 
established  in  this  study,  a  bridging  study  was  included  consisting  of  another  control  and  one  group 
treated with 0.5 mg/kg/d. Similar to the previous  study both  groups contained 25 dams plus 6 dams 
for toxicokinetic investigations. In the bridging study neither effects on the dams nor on their offspring 
were  detected.  Thus  the  maternal  NOAEL  for  this  study  is  0.5 mg/kg/d.  The  NOAEL  for  prenatal 
development is 4 mg/kg/d. 
In the pivotal developmental toxicity study in rabbits one high dose rabbit was found dead on gestation 
day 13 without any clinical signs prior to death. One mid dose doe was euthanized on gestation day 11 
due to severe clinical signs. At necropsy it was shown that in both rabbits the access ports were patent 
and properly located. While both rabbits showed mottled tan, red and/or dark red liver lobes in the doe 
from  the  mid  dose  group  mottled  red  and  dark  red  lung  lobes  and  a  pale  white  band  encircling  the 
ventricles of the heart were found. A pale white band encircling the ventricles and / or atrium was also 
observed  in  another  mid  dose  doe  as  well  as  in  one  low  dose  doe.  In  the  study  reports  of  the  dose 
range finding studies it is reported that microcirculation is disturbed by bromelain at 10 mg/kg/d given 
to rats intravenously, but the publication was not submitted. In the abstract of this publication (BAHDE 
et  al.  2007)  it  is  noted  that  bromelain  given  intravenously  at  a  dose  of  10 mg/kg/d  to  rats  led  to  a 
disturbed  microcirculation  with  increased  leukocyte  adherence,  apoptosis  rate,  Kupffer  cell  activation, 
and  endothelial  cell  damage.  Uterine  parameters  and  prenatal  development  was  not  affected.  The 
maternal  NOAEL  derived  from  this  study  is  0.01 mg/kg/d  and  the  developmental  NOAEL  is 
0.10 mg/kg/d. 
Toxicokinetic  investigations  performed  after  the  first  and  last  dose  showed  that  exposure  is  much 
higher after single administration than after repeated dosing. No safety margins are available as higher 
dosages  than  those  used  in  the  pivotal  studies  were  not  feasible  due  to  mortality  and  severe  clinical 
signs,  but  in  both  species  maternal  toxicity  occurred  at  low  dosages  without  any  effect  on  prenatal 
development at higher doses. 
Toxicokinetic data 
In the toxicokinetic Single Dose toxicity Study (i.v.) minipigs were given a 2 h i.v. infusion of NexoBrid 
at doses of 0, 24, 48 and 96 mg/kg but due to overt toxicity, blood was sampled only predose and at 
0.5 h.  Toxicokinetc  results  in  this  study  indicated  that  at  these  doses  the  measured  plasma 
concentration at 0.5 h after the end of dosing is 43,500/25,400; 66,600/63,900; and -/ 126,000 ng/ml 
in  one  male  and  one  female  minipig,  with  –  indicating  no  sample.  Within  this  study,  the  measured 
plasma concentration increased with dose, roughly in proportion. 
Local Tolerance  
Early  local  tolerance  studies  with  the  forerunner  product  showed  that  time  and  concentration 
dependent skin irritating effects of Bromelain products exist.  
In  studies  with  NexoBrid,  the  product  was  applied  dermally  to  healthy  minipigs  at  10,  20  or  30% 
(intact skin and abraded skin). A control was also applied. The application area was ~0.5% of the body 
surface  area.  20  and  30%  caused  significant  behavioural  responses  interpreted  as  pain  and  this  was 
relieved by buprenoprhine. Due to this response the initially planned dosing with these concentrations 
on subsequent dosing days was not continued. Erythema on abraded skin generally recovered within a 
week.  Irritation  and  erythema  were  evident  at  all  test  concentrations  and  abrasion  and  scabbing  of 
intact skin was seen at the application sites; there was a decrease in body weight at all concentrations. 
Microscopic  examination  indicated  bacterial  colonies,  oedema,  hyperkeratosis,  epidermal  hyperplasia, 
subacute inflammation, with rare instances of ulceration. However, all these changes were reversible. 
The data on local tolerability suggest that there is a potential for reversible local reactions when the gel 
is applied on intact skin and that contact with abraded skin could be irritating and painful. Within the 
SmPC it is clearly labelled, that the treatment area should be encircled with a sterile paraffin ointment 
adhesive  barrier  from  surrounding  area  to  protect  intact  skin.  NexoBrid  induced  pain  would  be 
mitigated  by  the  preventive  analgesia  medication  as  commonly  practiced  for  an  extensive  dressing 
change. 
A  sensitization  study  (maximization  method)  in  guinea  pigs  was  conducted  according  to  the  OECD 
Guideline.The  test  article  was  administered  at  a  concentration  of  15,  30,  and  100%.  The  challenge 
phase  did  not  occur  due  to  termination  of  the  study  after  the  topical  induction  phase  due  to  the 
extensive adverse response exhibited by animals in the test and control article groups. As no irritation 
was  observed  in  the  irritation  screen,  treatment  with  sodium  lauryl  sulfate  (SLS)  was  conducted  five 
days  post  the  intradermal  induction  dose.  During  the  dermal  induction  dose  unwrap,  the  skin 
ulcerations  increased  in  size  and  severity  in  almost  all  animals.  Animals  had  been  treated  with 
Buprenorphine  twice  per  day  in  order  to  manage  pain.  By  48 h  post  the  dermal  induction  dose,  four 
test  article  animals  had  been  found  dead  and  another  two  were  euthanized.  Additionally,  extensive 
clinical observations were noted in the majority of the test article group animals. In the best interests 
of  the  animals,  the  study  was  terminated  on  day  10.  The  Applicant  stated  that  the  use  of  the 
maximization  method  of  determining  sensitization  with  the  use  of  SLS  may  not  be  the  most 
appropriate  model.  The  potential  to  cause  sensitization  in  the  clinical  setting  needs  to  be  determined 
from the clinical use of the product. 4.4 of the SPC includes a warning that the potential of NexoBrid to 
cause  sensitization  should  be  taken  into  account  when  reexposing  patients  to  bromelain-containing 
products at a later point in time. 
Other toxicity studies 
Available  data  for  a  reagent,  which  is  used  during  the  manufacturing  process  of  NexoBrid  with  a 
presence in the NexoBrid powder did not reveal any concern 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According  to  the  „Guideline  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human 
use“ (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/ 4447/00) herbal medicinal products as well as medicinal products with active 
ingredients such as proteins and carbohydrates are exempted from the need to provide information on 
ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  pharmacological  mechanism  is  assumed  to  be  the  enzymatic  activity  of  the  main  components  of 
the product. In a dose range study performed in pigs the debriding activity was determined after a 4 h 
exposure  and  the  most  consistent  and  efficient  debriding  activity  was  observed  with  the  10% 
preparation, even if the best concentration was not as clear as preferable.  
Regarding  the  mechanism  of  action  overall  the  applicant  showed  to  an  acceptable  degree  that  in 
animal  studies  NexoBrid  does  not  remove  healthy  tissue  and  fully  removes  eschar  from  wounds. 
However  the  selectivity  of  NexoBrid  for  dead  eschar  and  not  viable  dermis  was  not  sufficiently 
evidenced and despite further discussion of data from non-clinical burns models it was not considered 
that  the  evidence  presented  was  sufficiently  convincing  to  support  the  use  of  the  term  ‘selective’  in 
Section  4.1  of  the  SmPC.  In  addition  to  the  debriding  effect  the  main  pharmacological  activities 
explored for therapeutic use of different bromelain products include anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic 
and anticoagulant effects as well as anti-tumour activities and support of digestion.  
Several  studies  characterize  the  absorption  of  NexoBrid  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats,  New  Zealand  White 
(NZW)  rabbits  and  Gottinger  minipigs.  Specifity,  sensitivity,  and  range  of  quantification  of  the  bio-
analytical method have been adaequately justified. 
Because in dermal toxicity studies only limited burn area could be inflicted, most single and repeated 
toxicity studies were conducted with the intravenous application to achieve higher exposures compared 
to the dermal application. Based on the results obtained, the NOEL (i.v.) for a single dose of NexoBrid 
powder was determined to 12 mg/kg (achieving plasma levels 2.5fold of the human plasma level after 
application of the clinical proposed dosage to 15% TBSA). A 2-week intravenous dose toxicity study in 
minipigs no NOEL could be determined, mainly due to the findings of haemorrhages in multiple tissues, 
including in the thymus with cortical lymphoid depletion and pancreatic acinar cell degeneration even 
in  the  lowest  dosage  group  (4 mg/kg  three  times  weekly  for  2  weeks  followed  by  2  weeks  recovery 
period).  If  observed  necropsy  results  in  rapids  were  immune  related  cannot  be  fully  excluded.  Based 
on  the  observation  in  the  preclinical  studies  the  CHMP  requested  to  restrict  the  clinical  use  of  the 
product to max. 15% TBSA and to implement warnings reflecting the possible impact of the product on 
coagulopathy parameters 4.4 of the SmPC. 
NexoBrid was tested in a standard battery for genotoxicity. It is concluded that NexoBrid is devoid of a 
clinically relevant genotoxic potential. For the intended use carcinogenicity studies are not considered 
applicable. 
No  studies  on  possible  effects  of  bromelain  on  male  and  female  fertility  as  well  as  on  prenatal  and 
postnatal development were submitted. It is acknowledged that the product is administered as a single 
topical  application  to  hospitalised  trauma  patients  and  that  NexoBrid  is  relatively  rapidly  eliminated 
from the body (plasma elimination half-life in the range of 10-15 hours) and there should hence be no 
risk for a delayed effect on male and female fertility. This is reflected in 4.6 of the SmPC.  
The  pivotal  developmental  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Standard  embryo-foetal 
developmental studies conducted in the rabbit and rat showed that rabbits are particularly sensitive to 
systemically delivered  NexoBrid/NexoBrid.  No  embryo-foetal  effects  were  observed  in  rabbits  but  one 
unexplained  maternal  death  in  each  of  the  two  highest  dose  groups  resulted  in  a  maternal  no-
observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) of 0.01 mg/kg.  The rat study did also not reveal any embryo-
foetal  toxicity  but  maternal  toxicity  in  the  form  of  transient  reductions  in  body  weight  gain  and  feed 
consumption,  increased  clinical  signs  and  injection  site  reactions  were  seen  at  an  i.v.  dose  from  4 
mg/kg. The reproduction toxicity data has thus demonstrated that there is no embryo-foetal toxicity in 
the absence of clear maternal toxicity. It should be noted, however, that maternal exposure levels at 
the  end  of  dosing  at  the  highest  doses  investigated  in  both  the  rat  and  rabbit  embryo-foetal 
development  study  were  considerably  lower  than  those  maximally  reported  in  the  clinical  setting. 
Based  on  standard  nonclinical  studies,  it  is  therefore  not  possible  to  fully  ascertain  the  true  potential 
for NexoBrid to interfere with embryo-foetal development in humans. Appropriate warning statements 
have therefore been included in the SmPC.    
The data on local tolerability suggest that there is a potential for reversible local reactions when the gel 
is applied on intact skin and that contact with abraded skin could be irritating and painful. Within the 
SmPC it is clearly labelled, that the treatment area should be encircled with a sterile paraffin ointment 
adhesive  barrier  from  surrounding  area  to  protect  intact  skin.  NexoBrid  induced  pain  would  be 
mitigated  by  the  preventive  analgesia  medication  as  commonly  practiced  for  an  extensive  dressing 
change. 
A  sensitization  study  (maximization  method)  in  guinea  pigs  was  conducted  and  had  to  be  terminated 
after the induction phase due to the extensive adverse response exhibited by animals (after treatment 
with sodium lauryl sulphate - SLS). The potential to cause sensitization in the clinical setting needs to 
be determined from the clinical use of the product. In the SmPC it is therefore clearly labelled that the 
potential of NexoBrid to cause sensitisation should be taken into account when re-exposing patients to 
bromelain-containing  products  at  a  later  point  in  time  and  that  in  case  of  skin  exposure,  NexoBrid 
should be rinsed off with water to reduce the likelihood of skin sensitisation. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A  single  intravenous  infusion  of  a  solution  prepared  from  NexoBrid  powder  in  the  mini-pig  was  well 
tolerated at dose levels of up to 12 mg/kg (achieving plasma levels 2.5fold of the human plasma level 
after  application  of  the  clinical  proposed  dosage  to  15%  TBSA)  but  higher  doses  were  overtly  toxic, 
causing haemorrhage in several tissues.  
After  repeated  intravenous  injections of  doses  up to  12 mg/kg  every  third  day  in  the  mini-pig  severe 
clinical signs of toxicity (e.g. haemorrhages in several organs) were observed. Such effects could still 
be seen after the recovery period of 2 weeks. 
Following  these  results  (and  the  results  from  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  as  described  in  the 
chapter below) the CHMP requested to restrict the clinical use of the product to a single application to 
max.  15%  TBSA  furthermore  warnings  reflecting  the  possible  impact  of  the  product  on  coagulopathy 
parameters were added in chapter 4.4 of the SmPC. 
The data on local tolerability suggest that there is a potential for reversible local reactions when the gel 
is  applied  on  intact  mini-pig  skin  and  that  contact  with  abraded  skin  could  be  irritating  and  painful. 
Within the SmPC it is clearly labelled, that the treatment area should be encircled with a sterile paraffin 
ointment adhesive barrier from surrounding area to protect intact skin and that NexoBrid induced pain 
should  be  mitigated  by  the  preventive  analgesia  medication  as  commonly  practiced  for  an  extensive 
dressing change. 
Overall the applicant showed to an acceptable degree that in animal studies NexoBrid does not remove 
healthy  tissue  and  fully  removes  eschar  from  wounds.  However  the  selectivity  of  NexoBrid  for  dead 
eschar and not viable dermis was not sufficiently evidenced to support the use of the term ‘selective’ in 
Section 4.1 of the SmPC. 
Overall,  the  SmPC  and  the  risk  management  plan  adequate  reflect  the  findings  for  the  nonclinical 
development programme. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The main study in support of the present application was a confirmatory Phase 3 study (MW 2004-11-
02) evaluating the efficacy and safety of NexoBrid for removal of eschar from burn wounds.  
These findings were supported through  
 
a  Phase  2  study  (MW 2002-04-01)  evaluating  the  safety  and  enzymatic  debriding  efficacy  of 
NexoBrid as compared to SOC and vehicle, and  
 
a retrospective data collection (35-98-910) using data from 154 subjects in a single centre. 
Additional supportive studies included: 
 
a  dose-ranging  study  (MW 2001-10-03)  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  three  doses  of 
NEXOBRID.  
 
study  MW 2005-10-05  evaluating  the  safety  and  exploratory  efficacy  of  NEXOBRID  in 
comparison to Vehicle, and SOC in subjects with DPT and/or full thickness burns ranging from 
1-5% TBSA.  
 
study MW 2008-09-03 evaluating the safety and exploratory efficacy of NEXOBRID, as well as 
the  systemic  absorption  of  NexoBrid  when  applied  topically  on  thermal  burns,  through 
 
pharmacokinetic (PK) assessments in hospitalize male and female adult subjects aged 18 to 55 
years with partial thickness burns of 4-30% TBSA.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Overview of Clinical Studies 
Study 
Number 
Study 
Phase 
Design and Primary Objective 
Study Population 
N = Total 
Adults/Pediatric 
Pts (n/n) 
Location 
Number of 
Sites (n) 
Controlled Clinical Studies 
MW 2002-04-01  
2 
Randomized, observer-blind, three-arms, 
multi-centre, safety and efficacy study 
140 
(140/0) 
MW 2005-10-05 
2 
Randomized, open-label, three-arms, 
single-centre safety study 
30 
(30/0) 
MW 2004-11-02 
3 
Randomized, open-label, two-arms, multi-
centre efficacy and safety study 
181 
(148/33) 
DRF/Single Arm Clinical Studies 
MW 2001-10-03 
2 
MW 2008-09-03 
2 
Randomized, open-label, observer-blind, 
multi-centre, dose-ranging, safety and 
efficacy study 
Single-arm, open-label, multi-centre, 
safety, efficacy (exploratory) and systemic 
absorption PK) study 
Retrospective Data Collection Study 
35-98-910 
1/2 
Retrospective data collection study to 
demonstrate safety and efficacy 
Total: 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
20 
(20/0) 
10 subject planned 6 
154 
(77/77 7) 
533 (423/110) 
International, 
Multicenter 
(18 centres) 
USA, 
(Single-
centre) 
International, 
Multicentre 
(26 centres) 
Israel, 
Multicentre 
(2 centres) 
Israel, India 
(2 centres) 
Israel, 
Single-centre 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  NexoBrid  following  topical  application  was  investigated  in  the  efficacy  and 
safety study MW 2008-09-03, where one objective was to to explore NexoBrid absorption as measured 
by  PK  testing.  The  bio-analytical  method  was  validated  and  has  adequate  accuracy  for  detecting  and 
following  the  time  course  of  compounds  in  a  complex  biological  matrix.  Specificity,  sensitivity,  and 
range of quantification were shown. 
No PK studies in healthy volunteers have been conducted with NexoBrid, as applying NexoBrid to intact 
healthy  skin  will  not  result  in  meaningful  PK  information,  due  to  the  protein-mixture  inability  to  be 
absorbed through intact skin. 
6 Interim data after the enrolment of 8 subjects is presented in this report. Study is ongoing. 
7 The data for this study were analyzed and prepared for a clinical report in 2004. At that time the age for children was 
considered as <16 years and for adults as 16 years (n = 75 children); Data presented in this module are based on a cut-
off age of 18 years (n = 77 children). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Absorption  
Study  MW-2008-09-03  was  is  a  Phase  II  open-label,  single-arm,  two  centre  (Israel,  India)  study 
designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NexoBrid in hospitalised subjects with partial thickness 
(mid  and  deep  dermal)  thermal  burns  of  4-30%  TBSA,  and  to  explore  systemic  absorption  as 
measured by pharmacokinetic testing. 
At  the  time  of  submission  of  the  dossier  study  MW 2008-09-03  was  ongoing;  hence  complete  results 
were not yet available. An interim look was conducted following enrolment of the first eight subjects.  
Eligible  subjects  were  male  and  female  patients  aged  18-55  years,  with  burn  wounds  defined  as  (a) 
partial  thickness  (mid  &  deep  dermal)  thermal  burn  wound  of  ≥  4%  and  ≤30%  TBSA  and/or  (b)  full 
thickness burns of ≤5% TBSA, requiring hospitalisation. NexoBrid was applied once to the burn wound 
at a dose of 2 g NexoBrid Powder/20 g gel/100 cm2 of skin, and kept under occlusive wound dressing 
for 4 hours before debridement.  
Blood samples were collected from all patients prior to treatment and at nominal times of 2, 4, 12, 24, 
and 48 hours following treatment. The range of doses applied was 6 to 30 g partially purified bromelain 
from  NexoBrid.  Serum  was  prepared  from  blood  and  was  analyzed  for  concentrations  of  NexoBrid. 
Serum  NexoBrid  concentration-time  data  for  each  patient  was  analyzed  by  non-compartmental 
pharmacokinetic methods using WinNonlin, with actual sampling times and doses, and the results are 
summarized  in  the  figure  below.  Cmax  and  AUClast  were  reported  both  as  observed  and  as  dose-
normalized results, because the treated skin area differed for each patient.  
Following  topical  administration  of  NEXOBRID  at  concentration  of  0.02 g/cm2  (the  application  of 
Bromelain  is  estimated  to  be  approximately  20 mg/cm2)  serum  NexoBrid  concentration-time  profiles 
were qualitatively similar for all subjects. There was a rapid uptake of NexoBrid post-administration of 
topical  NEXOBRID,  at  doses  of  6-30 g.  Concentrations  increased  relatively  rapidly,  attaining  Cmax 
(dose-normalized  mean  383 ng/ml/g)  by  2 h  post-dose,  with  a  mean  half-life  of  12.8 h.  Total  blood 
exposure  through  48 h  post-administration  (AUClast)  averaged  49300 ng•h/ml/g  (dose-normalized 
2930 ng•h/ml/g due to the influence of results for 2 subjects). Individual Cmax estimates ranged from 
951 to 13500 ng/ml, with a mean of 6570 ng/ml. Dose-normalized Cmax values for 6 of the 8 patients 
ranged  from  158  to  370 ng/ml/g  NexoBrid,  but  the  mean  for  all  patients  was  somewhat  higher 
(393 ng/ml/g NexoBrid), due to the influence of results for 2 patients with individual values of 883 and 
794 ng/ml/g NexoBrid, respectively. 
Individual  AUC last  estimates  ranged  from  5650  to  167 000 ng·h/ml,  with  a  mean  of  49 300 ng·h/ml. 
Dose-normalized AUClast values for 6 of the  8  patients  ranged  from  942  to  2530 ng·h/ml/g  NexoBrid, 
but the mean for all patients was somewhat higher (2930 ng·h/ml/g NexoBrid), due to the influence of 
results for 2 patients with individual values of 4500 and 9820 ng·h/ml/g NexoBrid, respectively. 
The variability (CV%) of dose-normalized C max (73.3%) and AUClast (103%) was somewhat lower than 
for observed Cmax (81.1%) and AUClast (110%). 
 
For all but one patient, Tmax was 2 hours from the start of debridement. However, this was also the 
first time point post-treatment start that serum NexoBrid concentration was evaluated. 
PK data from a further 8 patients in study MW 2008-09-03 were available during the assessment. This 
includes  data  from  1  patient  who  received  2  applications  of  NexoBrid.  The  PK  profile  for  this  patient 
exhibited  a  broad  peak  from  8  to  16h  post-dose,  as  a  consequence  of  the  dose  having  been 
administered  in  two  portions  over  a  period  of  4  hours.  The  following  updated  summary  data  were 
presented.  Overall,  the  summarised  data  did  not  change  significantly  with  the  inclusion  of  data  from 
the 8 additional patients. 
The  AUC  from  time  zero  to  48 hours  after  administration  (AUClast)  was  43,400 ± 46,100  ngh/ml 
(mean ± SD)  for  the  entire  group  of  16  patients,  with  a  range  of  4560  to  193,000 ngh/ml.  These 
results  for  Cmax  and  AUClast  indicate  that  systemic  absorption  may  depend  both  on  the  applied 
NexoBrid dose (proportional to the covered wound area) and other, patient-specific factors. 
No  studies  have  been  conducted  investigating  the  bioavailability  or  bioequivalence  of  NEXOBRID 
(NexoBrid Gel Dressing), since it is used for acute topical therapy, applied once, or at most twice to the 
same  burn  wound.  The  absence  of  such  studies  is  considered  justified,  as  no  major  changes  were 
made with the formulation during drug development, and the same formulation of the NexoBrid drug 
product  (lyophilized  powder)  was  used  during  the  entire  clinical  program  of  NexoBrid  (conducted  by 
MediWound). The formulations of the Gel Vehicle that were used during the NexoBrid clinical program 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differ only in component that was used during the Phase 2 studies and not during the Phase 3 study. 
This difference is not considered to have an effect on the performance of the product in terms of safety 
and efficacy.  
Distribution and Biotransformation 
Once absorbed, NexoBrid should undergo proteolytic digestion to its amino acid constituents which are 
further  metabolised  by  usual  biochemical  pathways.  As  the  administration  of  NexoBrid  is  local  and 
applying  NexoBrid  to  intact  healthy  skin  will  not  result  in  meaningful  PK  information,  due  to  the 
protein-mixture’s inability to be absorbed through intact skin, specific human studies of bioavailability, 
distribution and metabolism were not performed.  
Elimination 
There  are  no  data  that  specifically  address  the  excretion  of  absorbed  NexoBrid.  However,  it  is  not 
expected  that  any  significant  amount  of  absorbed  NexoBrid  will  be  excreted  as  the  intact  protein 
molecule.  As  indicated  above,  once  absorbed,  NexoBrid  should  undergo  proteolytic  digestions  to  its 
amino acid constituents and subsequently to carbon dioxide and water when fully metabolised. Formed 
amino  acids  may  be  reused  for  the  synthesis  of  endogenous  proteins.  Since  NexoBrid  is  only  applied 
once, or at most twice; in view of its known use as food and as a food supplement; and considering its 
fast clearance (t1/2 = 12.8 hours), the issue of accumulation is irrelevant. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
See above 
Special populations 
No specific studies in special populations have been conducted. This is considered acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
During  a  literature  search  for  Bromelain  a  possible  interaction  with  sedatives  is  noted;  for  sedatives 
and  orally  administered  Bromelain  as food  supplement.  Several possible  interactions  were  found  with 
orally  administered  Bromelain.  Interactions  of  topically  applied  antibiotics  and  disinfectants  were 
investigated  with  the  forerunner  product.  Non-clinical  studies  showed  that  silver  sulfadiazine  and 
povidone-iodine had an inhibitory effect on the debriding activity of the forerunner product. According 
to  the  instructions  for  use  prior  to  NexoBrid  treatment,  all  local  medications  are  removed  and  the 
wound bed is soaked for a minimum of 2 hours. 
Effects of Intrinsic and Extrinsic Factors on Pharmacokinetics 
No  studies  have  been  conducted  investigating  effects  of  intrinsic  or  extrinsic  factor  on  the  PK  of 
NexoBrid as its intended use involves a single topical application of short duration on burn wounds. The 
absence of such studies is considered justified based on the composition, the mechanism of action, the 
single topical application and the short duration of application. Systemic absorption is followed by rapid 
 
 
 
 
decomposition  of  the  Bromelain  enzymes  due  to  lysis  by  plasma  proteases  to  peptides  and  the 
individual amino acids that are re-used for protein synthesis within the body. In addition, a large and 
long-established database exists on Bromelain use [Maurer H. et al, 2001]8. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
A  single  in  vitro  study  in  the  literature  using  human  microsomes  demonstrated  potent  inhibition  of 
CYP2C9  activity  (Hidaka  et  al  2008) 9 .  The  Applicant  investigated  CYP  enzyme  inhibition  in  human 
hepatocytes  and  showed  IC 50  values  of  30  µg/ml  and  129  µg/ml,  after  an  incubation  period  of  30 
minutes,  for  CYP2C8  and  CYP2C9  isoenzymes  respectively.  It  was  concluded  that  as  the  highest 
reported C max and AUC in the clinical setting approximated Cmax 13.5 μg/mL and AUC 167 μg.h/mL, it 
was  unlikely  for  NexoBrid  to  cause  clinically  significant  inhibition  of  any  CYP  enzyme.  However,  this 
potential for cytochrome CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 inhibition should be considered in patients treated with 
substrates of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 (see SPC 4.5). 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Concentrate  of  proteolytic  enzymes  enriched  in  bromelain  is  a  debriding  agent,  applied  topically  for 
removal  of  eschar  in  deep  partial-  and  full-thickness  burns.  The  mixture  of  enzymes  in  NexoBrid 
dissolves  burn  wound  eschar.  The  specific  components  responsible  for  this  effect  have  not  been 
identified (see non clinical part of the report). 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  of  NexoBrid  were  assessed  in  non-clinical  studies  that  investigated  the 
concentration-response relationship in in vivo debridement dose-ranging studies. The debriding activity 
was  investigated  in  piglets  using  a  burn  wound  model  and  a  visual  score.  In  part  of  the  studies,  a 
histological score was used as well, and in one study the rate of epithelialisation after debridement was 
also assessed. These studies showed that a dose smaller than 2 g/100 cm2 was slightly less effective 
than a 2 g/100 cm2 dose. A double dose of 4 g/100 cm2 did not result in any significant improvement 
of the final debridement efficacy. 
The Applicant has summarised the main pharmacodynamic effects of Bromelain from the literature and 
provided  the  cited  publications.  The  provided  evidence  suggests  that  the  main  pharmacodynamic 
effects could be defined as anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic and fibrinolytic. 
No  special  clinical  immunogenicity  studies  were  conducted.  However,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to 
develop an assay to detect and measure anti-NexoBrid antibodies in patients enrolled into a paediatric 
study (MW2012-01-01) and in a phase IIIb study in adults and children, MW2010-03-02 to be initiated 
in 2012 (Annex II condition). 
8 Maurer H. Review: Bromelain: biochemistry, pharmacology and medical use. CMLS, Cell Mol Life Sci. 2001;58 1234–45 
9 Hidaka M, Nagata M, Kawano Y, Sekiya H, Kai H, Yamasaki K, et al. Inhibitory effects of fruit juices on cytochrome P450 
2C9 activity in vitro. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2008 Feb;72(2):406-11 
 
 
 
 
                                               
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The  Applicant  has  developed  an  assay  for  quantifying  the  extent  of  NexoBrid  absorption  into  the 
systemic circulation. Sufficient evidence was provided for the validation of the assay and the nature of 
the measured substances was considered sufficiently clarified.  
Due  to  the  protein-mixture’s  inability  to  be  absorbed  through  intact  skin,  specific  human  studies  of 
bioavailability, distribution and metabolism were not performed which is considered acceptable. 
The  human  pharmacokinetic  study  MW  2008-09-03  is  currently  ongoing.  Data  from  16  patients 
(including 1 patient who received two applications of NexoBrid) were made available and show a high 
variability  in  Cmax  and  AUC.  From  the  applied  schedule  and  frequency  of  the  blood  sampling, 
especially  for  subjects  undergoing  a  second  administration  of  NexoBrid  it  cannot  be  excluded  that 
earlier  sampling  post-treatment  start  would  have  lead  to  higher  Cmax  and  AUC  values  and  earlier 
Tmax  values.  Further,  the  severity  of  the  burn  wounds  in  this  study  are  not as  severe  or  as large  as 
those in the pivotal study and there is a potential that there would be increased absorption of NexoBrid 
from wounds that were predominantly DPT and/or FT.  
A  number  of  publications  submitted  by  the  Applicant  indicate  potential  interactions  of  oral  bromelain 
with  anticoagulants.  Also,  in  the  pre-clinical  studies  of  minipigs,  trends  of  clotting  interference  and 
subsequently haemorrhages were apparent at doses of 40µg/ml. It is noted by the Applicant that this 
dose  range  is  approximately  2.5  times  the  highest  Cmax  noted  in  humans.  However,  it  should  be 
pointed  out  that  a  Cmax  of  40µg/ml  may  be  possible  in  humans  administered  NexoBrid  according  to 
the  posology  indicated  in  the  initially  proposed  SmPC,  when  it  is  considered  that  PK  has  only  been 
evaluated  in  patients  with  largely  superficial  burns,  receiving  half  the  maximum  dose  and  in  a  single 
administration.    
Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  that  the  maximum  wound  surface  area  on  which  NexoBrid  can  be 
applied  is  limited  to  15%  TBSA,  towards  the  upper  limit  of  the  wound  sizes  evaluated  in  study  MW 
2008-09-03.  In  addition  the  use  of  NexoBrid  should  be  limited  to  one  application  only.  The  SmPC 
contains  adequate  guidance.  Possible  off  lable  use  will  be  monitored  within  the  planned  retrospective 
drug utilisation study MW2013-06-01. Furthermore, to further characterise the PK profile of NexoBrid, 
the  Applicant  has  been  requested  by  the  CHMP  to  undertake  a  full  evaluation  of  NexoBrid  PKs  in  a 
planned phase IIIb study, MW 2010-03-02.  
No  drug  interaction  studies  with  NexoBrid  have  been  performed.  During  a  literature  search  for 
Bromelain  a  possible  interaction  with  sedatives  is  noted.  A  discussion  on  the  breadth  of  available 
literature on PD effects of bromelain was provided; the most important of which were deemed to be its 
fibrinolytic  and  antithrombotic  effects  and  its  inhibition  of  various  CYP  isoenzymes.  There  is  both 
literature  evidence  and  in  vitro  data  from  the  Applicant  which  suggest  that  these  effects  are  dose 
dependent  (i.e.  extent  of  transcutaneous  absorption).  The  relevant  information  is  reflected  in  the 
SmPC. 
Immunogenicity studies have not been performed. The available clinical data from the pivotal trial do 
not indicate severe immune related reactions. According to the SmPC the use of NexoBrid is restricted 
to a single application per wound and to a maximum wound surface area of 15% TBSA. According to 
the CHMP, these measures adequate reflect the current knowledge. Nevertheless, there is a possibility 
of treatment with NexoBrid after longer intervals or on other occasions, especially in groups at higher 
risk  of  burns  (occupational  hazards  etc...),  even  if  off-label.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  the 
Applicant to provide further data post-authorisation by evaluating the presence of anti-drug antibodies 
in subjects administered NexoBrid in the upcoming phase III studies (MW 2010-03-02 and MW 2012-
01-01), as documented in the risk management plan.  
CYP  enzyme  inhibition  testing  in  human  hepatocytes  was  performed  and  showed  IC50  values  of  30 
g/ml  and  129  µg/ml,  after  an  incubation  period  of  30  minutes,  for  CYP2C8  and  CYP2C9  isoenzymes 
respectively. Considering the provided PK data, the results suggest that when used on wounds it may 
be  possible  to  selectively  inhibit  these  enzymes,  with  resulting  drug-drug  interactions  between 
NexoBrid  and  medicinal  products  metabolized  by  these  isoenzymes.  SmPC  and  RMP  are  taking  this 
potential for drug interactions appropriately into account.  
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Sufficient data on clinical pharmacology were presented.   
Based on the available pharmacokinetic data and considering that with the current proposed posology 
blood concentrations may be reached, which in preclinical studies have shown clotting interference and 
subsequently haemorrhages, the maximum wound surface area on which NexoBrid can be applied has 
been  limited  to  15%  TBSA.  Furthermore,  to  take  also  into  account  the  potential  for  immunological 
reactions, even if no severe immune related reactions have been observed in the clinical studies, the 
use of NexoBrid has been limited to one application only.  
Appropriate  warnings  have  been  implemented  in  the  SmPC  and  an  educational  programme  to 
healthcare professionals will be performed to assure the safe application of the product. 
The  CHMP  requested  that  the  applicant  provides  further  data  to  better  characterise  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  NexoBrid  and  the  potential  immunogenicity  of  the  product.  This  will  be 
addressed  through  the  planned  phase  IIIB  study  (MW2010-03-02)  and  the  planned  paediatric  study 
(MW 2012-01-01), as described in the risk management plan. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address the issues related to pharmacology: 
Description 
The MAH shall conducts a study on enzymatic debridement in burns patients 
(children and adults): A comparison to standard of care (protocol MW2010-03-02), 
based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date 
31/03/2017 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
Description of Clinical Efficacy Studies 
Type of 
Study 
Stud
y ID 
Study 
Design  and 
Type 
of 
Control 
Test Product(s); 
Route of 
Administration; 
Dosage Regimen 
Objective(s) 
of the Study 
Subjects 
(N) 
Dura-
tion  of 
Treat-
ment 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
diagnosis of 
patients 
Dose-
ranging 
study 
MW 
2001
-10-
03 
Safety, 
efficacy 
MW 
2002
-04-
01 
Phase II 
Open-label, 
observer 
blinded, 
randomised,  
Non-
controlled, 
three-arm. 
Phase II 
Open-label, 
randomised,  
parallel, 
three-arm. 
NEXOBRID  at  a 
dose of 
1g, 
2g, 
4g. 
Topical 
Debriding 
efficacy and 
safety of 3 
different 
NexoBrid doses 
NEXOBRID  
(2g ) 
Vehicle 
SOC 
Topical 
Debriding 
efficacy and 
safety of 
NEXOBRID in 
comparison to 
Vehicle and SOC 
4 h 
4 h 
rando-
20 
mised: 
NexoBrid 
1 g (6) 
NexoBrid 
2 g (7) 
NexoBrid 
4 g (7) 
148  rando-
mised: 
NexoBrid 
2 g (70) 
vehicle 
(35) 
SOC (35) 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
partial deep 
dermal and/or 
full thickness 
burns of 1-
15% TBSA. 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
deep partial 
thickness and 
full thickness 
thermal burns 
of 2-15% 
TBSA. 
Study 
Status; 
Type  of 
Report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report. 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study 
Stud
y ID 
Study 
Design  and 
Type 
of 
Control 
Test Product(s); 
Route of 
Administration; 
Dosage Regimen 
Safety, 
explo-
ratory 
efficacy 
MW 
2005
-10-
05 
Phase II 
Open-label, 
randomised, 
parallel, 
three-arm. 
NEXOBRID  
(2g) 
Vehicle, 
SOC 
Topical 
Objective(s) 
of the Study 
Subjects 
(N) 
Dura-
tion  of 
Treat-
ment 
Healthy 
Subjects or 
diagnosis of 
patients 
4 h 
Safety, 
exploratory 
efficacy of 
NEXOBRID in 
comparison to 
Vehicle and 
SOC. 
rando-
31 
mised: 
NexoBrid 
2 g (10) 
vehicle (9) 
SOC (11) 
Safety, 
efficacy 
PIVO-
TAL 
MW 
2004
-11-
02 
Phase III 
Open-label, 
randomised, 
parallel, 
two-arm 
NEXOBRID  
(2 g) 
SOC 
Topical 
Safety 
debriding 
efficacy 
NEXOBRID 
comparison 
SOC. 
and 
of 
in 
to 
Safety 
and 
efficacy 
35-
98-
910 
Phase II 
Retrospective 
data 
collection 
study. 
Single-arm, 
non-
controlled 
NEXOBRID  
(2 g Debridase) 
and 
Safety 
efficacy 
of 
NEXOBRID  (2g 
Debridase) 
156 rando- 
mised 
NEXOBRID 
(2 g) (75) 
SOC (81) 
Non-rando- 
mised 
NEXOBRID 
training 
subjects 
(26) 
154 
analysed 
4 h 
4 h 
NEXOBRID  
(2 g NexoBrid) 
and 
Safety 
exploratory 
efficacy 
4 h 
Analyzed: 
72 
and 
children. 
adults 
17 
Safety 
and 
efficacy 
MW 
2012
-01-
02 
term 
up 
from 
Phase III 
Open-label, 
single-arm 
(long 
follow 
study 
patients 
enrolled 
previously 
enrolled 
MW2004-11-
02) 
in 
Study 
Status; 
Type  of 
Report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report 
Comple-
ted. 
Final 
report 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
deep partial 
thickness 
and/or full 
thickness 
thermal burns 
of 1-10% 
TBSA. 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
deep partial 
thickness and 
full thickness 
thermal burns 
of 5-30% 
TBSA. 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
partial deep 
dermal or full 
thickness 
burns caused 
by fire/flame, 
scald or 
contact. 
Hospitalised 
patients with 
deep partial 
thickness and 
full thickness 
thermal burns 
of 5-30% 
TBSA.. 
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
MW 2001-10-03 
Study  MW 2001-10-03  was  an  open  label,  observer  blinded,  randomized,  multicenter,  dose  ranging 
study.  The  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  three  NexoBrid  doses  in  the 
treatment of patients with partial deep dermal and/or full thickness burns. Twenty hospitalized adult, 
male and female subjects, with DPT and/or full thickness burns of 1-15% TSBA were randomized to a 
1 g  (6/20 subjects),  2 g  (7/20  subjects)  or  4 g  (7/20  subjects)  dose  of  NexoBrid  powder  per  20 g  of 
Gel Vehicle. The investigator performing the debridement efficacy and re-epithelialisation assessments 
was blinded for this study. The primary endpoint was time to wound closure following debridement as 
measured  by  95%  epithelialization  (spontaneous  healing  or  graft  take),  aiming  to  evaluate  whether 
NEXOBRID impairs wound healing. 
Of the 20 treated patients, 18 (1g, 5; 2g, 6; 4g, 7) achieved >95% epithelialization for wound closure 
during  the  weekly  follow-up  visits.  One  of  the  two  patients  who  did  not  comply  with  the  weekly  visit 
 
 
 
 
appointments  had  wound  closure  at  the  3  month  follow  up  visit.  The  mean  time  to  >95% 
epithelialization from last debridement was 21.2 ± 2.4 days, 13.0 ± 6.7 days and 19.0 ± 8.5 days, for 
the  1g,  2g  and  4g  NexoBrid  treatment  groups,  respectively.  The  median  of  time  to  >95% 
epithelialization from last debridement was 20.0, 11.5 and 16.0 days for the 1g, 2g and 4g NexoBrid 
treatment groups, respectively. 
The  average  treated  wound  area  (2.0  –  2.5%  TBSA)  was  similar  among  the  three  treatment  groups. 
NexoBrid at 1g, 2g and 4g removed 98.9%, 100% and 99.1% of the eschar, respectively. None of the 
patients  required  repeat  debridement  or  additional  eschar  removal  by  excision  during  the  study  and 
only one patient required an autograft.  
The  2g  NexoBrid  dose  was  considered  effective  in  the  debridement  of  partial  deep  dermal  and  full 
thickness  burns.  In  this  study  the  1g  dose  showed  results  in  the  removal  of  eschar  similar  to  those 
observed  for  the  2g  and  4g  doses.  However,  the  2g  dose  provided  a  safety  margin  in  comparison  to 
the 1g dose, for achieving efficacious treatment in more severe or difficult to treat burns than those of 
the patients in this study. 
There  was  no  difference  observed  in  safety  measurements  among  the  three  treatment  groups  and  it 
was concluded, by the Applicant that NexoBrid is safe for the treatment of 1-15 % TBSA partial deep 
dermal and/or full thickness burns. 
2.5.2.  Main study   
MW 2004-11-02 
This  was  an  open-label,  randomised,  parallel  group,  multicenter  study,  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and 
safety  of  NexoBrid  used  for  debridement  treatment  in  patients  hospitalised  with  partial  deep  dermal 
and/or full thickness burns. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion Criteria 
1. 4 to 55 years of age 
2. Thermal burns caused by fire/flame, scalds or contact 
3. DPT (mixed deep dermal) and/or full thickness (3°) burn wounds≥ 5 % and ≤30% TBSA; all these 
wounds must receive study treatment. Total burn wounds ≤ 30% TBSA. 
4. At least one wound of ≥2% TBSA DPT and/or full thickness burn 
5. At least 50% of the DPT and/or full thickness burn wound area of the patient is intended for surgical 
debridement as judged at hospital admission 
Main Exclusion Criteria 
1. Other severe cutaneous trauma at the same sites as the burns (i.e. blunt, avulsion or deep 
abrasion) or previous burn(s) at the same treatment site(s) or one or more burn wounds that do not 
meet study criteria 
2. DPT and/or full thickness facial burn wounds, >0.5% TBSA; study treatment of facial burns 
 
 
 
3. Study treatment of perineal and/or genital burns (A patient with these wounds may be enrolled but 
the wounds may not be designated as TWs.) 
4. Use of the following pre-enrolment dressings: a). Flammacerium, b). Silver Nitrate (AgNO3) 
Pre-enrolment wounds which are covered by eschar heavily saturated with iodine or by 
pseudoeschar (e.g. pseudoeschar as a result of SSD treatment) 
5. Pre-enrolment escharotomy 
6. Heavily contaminated burns or pre-existing infections (Adults: WBC ≥20.0 x 103 cells/μL; Children 
aged 4-16: WBC ≥25.0 x 103 cells/μL) 
7. Signs that may indicate smoke inhalation 
8. General condition of patient would contraindicate surgery 
11. Poorly controlled diabetes mellitus (HbA1c>9%), Cardiopulmonary disease, peripheral circulatory 
disease  
15. Chronic systemic steroid intake 
16. History of allergy and/or known sensitivity to pineapples or papain 
Treatments 
2 g or 5 g of NexoBrid powder were mixed in 20 g or 50 g of Vehicle (ratio of 1:10) to obtain NexoBrid. 
NexoBrid  was  applied  to  the  burn  wound  at  a  dose  of  2  g  NexoBrid  powder  per  100  cm2  of  skin 
(approximately 1% TBSA in the average adult) for four hours. A total wound area of ≤15% TBSA was 
allowed NexoBrid treatment in one session; if the wound area to be treated was >15% TBSA, NexoBrid 
was  applied  in  two  separate  sessions.  In  cases  of  partial  debridement,  a  second  topical  NexoBrid 
treatment was applied, per investigator’s discretion but no later than 48 hours after the start time of 
the first debridement. NexoBrid and Vehicle were mixed at the bedside ≤15 minutes prior to use. 
It  was  required  to  apply  study  treatment  to  all  DPT  and/or  FT  burns  of  each  subject.  Cleansing, 
removal  of  blisters  (burned  keratin)  and  dressing  with  antibacterial  solutions  were  performed  for  all 
wounds. Prior to debridement with, NexoBrid the subject received analgesic medication, as commonly 
practiced in dressing change of extensive burns, to ensure proper pain-free treatment (as mandated by 
the  protocol).  Interstitial/compartment  pressure  was  also  measured  in  circumferential  extremity 
wounds  prior  to  NexoBrid  or  SOC  treatments.  In  addition,  the  wound  was  surrounded  with  a  sterile 
paraffin  ointment  adhesive  barrier  by  applying  it  on  healthy  skin  a  few  millimetres  from  the  wound’s 
edges.  
DEBRASE  Treatment:  Freshly  prepared  NexoBrid  was  applied  topically  to  the  burn  wound  at  a 
thickness of 1.5 to 3 mm to all wounds designated to receive study treatment (target wounds [TW]) in 
a given subject. Each wound was covered with occlusive dressing for four hours. The occlusive dressing 
was  then  removed  using  aseptic  techniques  and  additional  analgesia.  The  adhesive  barrier  was 
removed  using  a  sterile  blunt-edged  instrument  such  as  a  sterile  tongue  depressor.  The  dissolved 
eschar  was  removed  from  the  wound  using  a  similar  sterile  blunt  edged  instrument.  The  wound  was 
then wiped and rubbed first with a large sterile dry gauze or napkin, followed by sterile saline-soaked 
gauze or napkin. If treatment had been ineffective, there was undigested eschar that strongly adhered 
to  the  underlying  tissue  and  could  not  be  removed.  A  dressing  soaked  with  an  antibacterial  solution, 
e.g.  3-5%  sulfamylon  or  0.05-0.5%  chlorhexidine  was  applied  for  an  additional  2  hours.  Appropriate 
preventive analgesia medication was implemented. 
SOC  Treatment:  SOC  included  surgical  and/or  non-surgical  procedures,  depending  on  wound 
characterisation  (e.g.  burn  depth)  and  each  site's  clinical  practice.  Surgical  debriding  procedures 
included  tangential  excision,  minor  excision,  fascial  avulsion,  scraping,  dermabrasion,  brushing,  or 
 
 
 
 
Versajet Non-surgical procedures included covers and/or topical medication to induce maceration and 
autolysis of eschar. 
Subsequent  to  debridement  (NexoBrid  or  SOC),  all  wounds  were  visually  assessed  for  debridement 
efficacy  and  treated  in  accordance  with  the  post-debridement  wound  care  routine.  FT  burns  were 
usually  autografted.  Mixed  dermal  wounds  were  usually  treated  with  protective  biological  covers, 
temporary  skin  substitutes,  or  topical  medications.  In  some  cases,  burn  management  involved 
application  of  various  treatments  to  different  wound  sites  in  a  given  subject  or  even  to  the  same 
wound site, depending on wound assessment. 
Objectives 
The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and enzymatic debriding efficacy of NexoBrid in 
hospitalized subjects with DPT and/or full thickness thermal burns of 5-30% TBSA, but with total burn 
wounds of no more than 30% TBSA and to compare NexoBrid to SOC.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint 
 
The % treated wound excised (by tangential/minor/Versajet excision) or dermabraded, in first 
surgery.  Wounds  which  were  entirely  full  thickness  or  have  full  thickness  areas  are  excluded 
from  this  analysis.  Surgical  excision/dermabrasion  performed  in  first  surgery  was  defined  as 
tangential/minor/Versajetexcision or dermabrasion, performed (a) as the initial eschar removal 
(debridement)  procedure  in  the  surgical  SOC  group  or  (b)  as  the  first  surgical  debridement 
performed  after  initial  eschar  removal  (debridement),  in  the  DEBRASE  or  non-surgical 
debridement (NSD) SOC groups. 
 
The  %  treated  wound  autografted  of  deep  partial  wounds  where  the  potential  tissue-sparing 
effect  may  be  seen.  Wounds  which  are  entirely  full  thickness  or  have  full  thickness  areas  are 
excluded from this analysis. The sum of all post-debridement autografts performed was taken. 
Secondary Endpoints 
 
 
 
The % treated wound excised (by tangential/minor/Versajetexcision) or dermabraded, in first 
surgery (as described above), for all wounds 
Time to complete wound closure 
Timely eschar removal (debridement) 
  Blood loss 
Exploratory Endpoints 
Interstitial/compartment pressure in circumferential extremity wounds 
Time to hospital discharge 
 
 
Safety 
  General parameters: systemic adverse events, vital signs, pain assessments, laboratory tests, 
volume of blood transfusions (if required) and general functional disability assessments 
 
Local parameters: wound infection, local adverse events, graft loss and scarring assessment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  limit  of  ≥90%  eschar  removed  (calculated  as  a  weighted  average  of  %  eschar  removed  off  all 
wounds  per  patient  with  respect  to  wound  size)  was  used  as  the  practical  lowest  success/failure 
threshold  for  this  study,  based  on  data  from  study  MW2002-04-01where  the  calculated  average 
percent of eschar removed with SOC was 92.7%, (95% CI 86.1%-99.3%). 
Sample size 
The sample size justification is based on the consideration of two co-primary endpoints for this study. 
To protect the experiment-wise type I error rate (falsely concluding treatment differences) at the alpha 
level  of  0.05,  a  hierarchy  testing  procedure  for  two  primary  endpoints  were  used  in  which  the  % 
treated  wound  excised  was  tested  first  at  the  significance  level  of  0.05  and  then  only  if  the  effect 
measured by the first primary end point was statistically significant, the % treated wound autografted 
was tested at the significance level of 0.05. The overall significance level for this scheme remained at 
or below 5%. Therefore, sample size calculation for both primary endpoints were based on α=0.05.  
For  the  first  primary  endpoint,  %  treated  wound  excised  (by  tangential/minor/Versajet  excision)  or 
dermabraded,  a  sample  size  of  68  completed  subjects  per  treatment  group  would  have  at  least  80% 
statistical  power  to  detect  a  difference  of  22%  in  the  endpoint  at  the  significance  level  of  0.05, 
assuming a pooled standard deviation of 45%.  
For  the  second  co-primary  endpoint,  %  treated  wound  autografted,  the  sample  size  estimation  was 
based  on  wounds  and  not  subjects  since  the  clinical  decision  to  graft  a  wound  is  taken  per  wound 
based on the unique characteristics of each wound. Assuming a target treatment difference of 11% in 
the % treated wound autografted between NexoBrid and SOC and a pooled standard deviation of 40%, 
a  sample  size  of  210  wounds  per  group  would  be  required  to  have  at  least  80%  power  to  detect  the 
treatment difference at significance level 0.05. Assuming an average of two wounds per subject, a total 
of 105 subjects per group would be required to contribute to the total number of wounds (210). 
The  study  sample  size  was  to  be  increased  to  account  for  dropouts,  potential  correlation  among  the 
wounds within the same subject and complete randomisation block size. Therefore, 240 subjects were 
to be randomised into NexoBrid or SOC treatment arms (120 subjects per arm).  
In  addition,  one  subject  per  site  (≤  30  subjects  in  total)  was  enrolled  and  designated  as  a  NexoBrid 
subject as part of a training protocol. 
Randomisation 
The  first  subject  at  each  site  was  designated  as  a  DEBRASE  subject  as  part  of  the  training  protocol. 
Subsequent subjects were stratified into two subgroups based on %TBSA of burn wounds, as assessed 
at Screening: 
A. ≥ 5%, ≤15% TBSA of burn area 
B. >15%, ≤30% TBSA of burn area 
Within each stratification level, eligible subjects were randomized, per site, in a 1:1 ratio to receive 
DEBRASE or SOC treatment.  
Blinding (masking) 
It was not feasible to implement blinding for treatment procedures (topical DEBRASE vs. surgical/non-
surgical SOC) since there is a great difference in the administration of these two modalities and thus 
 
 
 
obvious  to  the  caregiver  as  well  as  the  patient.  Moreover,  it  was  not  possible  to  implement  post-
treatment  blinding  procedures  between  the  DEBRASE  and  the  SOC  groups,  since  the  post-treatment 
physical appearance of burn wounds differs greatly between DEBRASE and SOC treated wounds. 
Statistical methods 
Unless  otherwise  specified,  all  statistical  tests  were  conducted  against  a  two-sided  alternative 
hypothesis,  employing  a  significance  level  of  0.05.  Appropriate  summary  statistics  are  presented, 
depending  on  the  variable.  For  continuous  variables,  the  observed  sample  size,  mean,  median,  and 
standard  deviation  are  presented;  the  minimum  and  maximum  values  are  also  presented.  For 
categorical variables, the Chi-squared test was used for treatment comparison and when the data were 
inadequate,  Fisher’s  exact  test  was  used.    All  statistical  analyses  were  performed  using  SAS  Version 
9.1. An interim analysis was pre-planned when the study reached 152 randomized completed subjects. 
Study Populations 
  Enrolled population - all subjects who passed through the screening processes (training 
subjects and randomised subjects). 
 
Intention-to-Treat (ITT) population - all subjects who were randomised into the trial. 
  Modified Intention-to-Treat (MITT) population - all randomised subjects with at least one 
wound that was entirely DPT, as evaluated in the pre-debridement assessment.  
  Complete case population (CC) - all randomised subjects who provided efficacy data for wound 
closure (achieve 100% epithelialisation at weekly visit or > 95% epithelialisation at weekly 
visit and confirmed at a monthly follow-up assessment). 
  Evaluable (per protocol) population - consisted of two subsets: 
  Subset A - ITT subjects who fulfilled all inclusion/exclusion criteria and were not excluded 
due to major protocol violations 
  Subset B - MITT subjects who fulfilled all inclusion/exclusion criteria and were not 
excluded due to major protocol violations 
 
Safety population - all enrolled subjects who received study treatment (training subjects and 
randomised subjects). 
The training subjects were included only in safety evaluations and not in any efficacy analyses. 
Efficacy Analysis 
Primary endpoints: 
  % treated wound excised: MITT and Evaluable Subset B 
  % treated wound autografted: MITT and Evaluable Subset B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analysis for these endpoints is per wound. 
To  control  the  type  1  error  from  the  multiple  comparisons,  a  sequential  testing  procedure  was  used. 
Both  primary  endpoints  (the  %  treated  wound  excised  and  the  %  treated  wound  autografted)  were 
tested at a significance level of 0.05. Testing for the % treated wound excised was performed first. If 
the  test  for  the  %  treated  wound  excised  had  not  been  significant,  then  the  test  for  the  %  treated 
wound autografted would not have been eligible for testing the significance. 
Interim Analysis 
An interim analysis was conducted when the study reached 152 randomised completed subjects as had 
been planned. An early stopping rule was used to terminate accrual to the trial at an interim point in 
the event that the results would appear to be very promising or indicate a futility result. The following 
stopping rule was used: 
  Stop the study for efficacy if p value for %wound excised <0.02 and the p value for %wound 
autografted <0.02 
  Stop  the  study  for  futility  if  both  p  values  for  %wound  excised  and  for  %wound  autografted 
>0.5 
Otherwise the study would be continued. To control the overall alpha level, pre-defined critical values 
were used, which were calculated in accordance with the Fleming, Harrington and O’Brien boundary. 
As  stopping  rule  number  1  was  achieved,  recruitment  was  stopped  on  October  15,  2009.  Complete 
statistical analyses were performed as described in the SAP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
32  centres  from  Europe,  Israel,  Brazil  Australia  and  India  underwent  study  initiation  procedures;  26 
centres enrolled subjects. 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol MW 2004-11-02, protocol amendments, and informed consent forms (ICF) were submitted for 
review  and  approval  to  the  competent  authorities  (CA),  and  ethics  committees  (EC)/site  institutional 
review boards (IRB) before initiation of the study and enrolment of any subjects.  
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Demographic Data and Baseline Characteristics (Enrolled Population) 
Age 
(years) 
Weight 
(Kg) 
Gender 
Race 
Randomized 
NEXOBRID 
Training 
N=26 
26 
34.7±14.0 
35.5 
11.7 
54.7 
26 
70.4±15.7 
73.0 
33.0 
97.0 
NEXOBRID 
(N=75) 
75 
31.6±15.3 
32.6 
4.4 
55.7 
75 
68.9±24.5 
69.1 
16.0 
116.0 
SOC 
(N=81) 
81 
29.3±14.0 
26.6 
5.1 
55.7 
81 
72.0±22.4 
75.1 
16.0 
119.0 
N 
23 
3 
21 
2 
0 
1 
2 
% 
N 
% 
26 
26 
88.5 
11.5 
54 
21 
75 
72.0 
28.0 
75 
80.8 
58 
77.3 
7.7 
0 
3.8 
7.7 
5 
4 
5 
3 
6.7 
5.3 
6.7 
4.0 
N 
61 
20 
61 
4 
5 
3 
8 
81 
81 
% 
75.3 
24.7 
75.3 
4.9 
6.2 
3.7 
9.9 
N 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
N 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
N 
Male 
Female 
N 
Caucasian 
Middle 
Eastern 
Black 
Asian 
Other 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02 
P-Value 
0.2301 
0.6866 
0.2375 
0.7969 
In  both  study  groups,  circumstances  of  injury  were  mainly  accidents  not  related  to  work.  The  great 
majority  of  subjects  (>90.0%)  in  both  groups  did  not  have  associated  injuries  or  complications  upon 
study enrolment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Treatment Burn Description per Wound (ITT Population) 
NEXOBRID 
(N=75) 
163 wounds 
SOC 
(N=81) 
170 wounds 
N 
% 
N 
% 
163 
170 
1 
49 
7 
1 
0 
53 
31 
0.6 
30.1 
4.3 
0.6 
0 
32.5 
19.0 
3 
34 
17 
1 
1 
51 
42 
1.8 
20.0 
10.0 
0.6 
0.6 
30.0 
24.7 
4 
2.5 
3 
1.8 
16 
9.8 
18 
10.6 
1 
0.6 
0 
0 
163 
170 
106 
57 
55 
108 
65.0 
35.0 
33.7 
66.3 
163 
163 
5.1±3.5 
5.0 
0.3 
16.0 
106 
88 
82 
78 
92 
170 
51.8 
48.2 
45.9 
54.1 
170 
5.2±3.4 
5.0 
0.5 
15.0 
88 
4.3±3.0 
4.7±2.9 
4.0 
0.4 
15.0 
4.5 
0.5 
13.0 
Treated TW 
burn depth 
N (wounds) 
Second degree 
DPT 
Third degree 
First degree/second degree 
First degree/third degree 
Second degree/DPT 
DPT/Third degree 
First degree/second 
degree/DPT 
Second degree/DPT/third 
degree 
First degree/second 
degree/DPT/third degree 
Wounds with 
no FT 
component 
(DPT 
wounds) 
Wounds with 
any FT 
component 
N (wounds) 
Yes 
No 
N (wounds) 
Yes 
No 
Treated TW 
total body  
surface area 
(%TBSA) 
N (wounds) 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Treated TW 
%TBSA of 
wounds with 
no FT 
component 
(DPT 
wounds) 
Min 
Max 
N (wounds) 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02, 
There  was  a  higher  percentage  of  DPT  wounds  (wounds  with  no  full  thickness  component)  in  the 
NexoBrid  as  compared  to  the  SOC  group  (65.0%,  and  51.8%,  in  the  NexoBrid  and  SOC  groups, 
respectively)  with  statistically  significant  difference  between  groups  (p=0.0141).  On  the  other  hand, 
there  was  significantly  higher  percentage  of  wounds  with  any  full  thickness  component  in  the  SOC 
group (33.7%, and 45.9%, in the NexoBrid and SOC groups, respectively, p=0.0238). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  trial  was  stopped  at  the  first  interim  analysis  for  efficacy  in  accordance  with  the  pre-specified 
analysis plan. The results are shown below: 
Primary endpoints 
Percent treated wound excised 
The  percent  (number)  of  treated  wounds  excised  (by  tangential/minor/Versajet  excision)  or 
dermabraded in randomized subjects with at least one wound that was entirely DPT (MITT population) 
was  significantly  lower  in  the  DEBRASE  group,  (15.1%,  16/106  wounds)  as  compared  to  the  SOC 
group (62.5%, 55/88 wounds; p<0.0001).  
Percent Treated Wound Excised (MITT Population) 
NEXOBRID 
(N=49) 
106 wounds 
N 
(wounds
) 
106 
16 
90 
% 
15.1 
84.9 
SOC 
(N=48) 
88 wounds 
N 
(wounds
) 
% 
88 
p-
value 
55 
33 
62.5  <.0001 
37.5 
106 
88 
5.5±14.6 
0.0 
0.0 
70.0 
52.0±44.5 
65.0 
0.0 
100.0 
<.0001
* 
N (wounds) 
Yes 
No 
N (wounds) 
Mean ± SD 
Excision (by 
tangential/minor/Versajet 
excision or dermabrasion) 
performed 
Percent wound area excised 
(by 
tangential/minor/Versajet 
excision or dermabraded) 
Median 
Min 
Max 
* p-value using parameter square root. 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02, 
The  results  were  sustained  in  the  Evaluable  B  subset  population.  The  effect  was  also  demonstrated 
across  age  groups.  In  accordance  with  the  SAP,  no  statistical  tests  were  performed  for  subgroup 
analyses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post  hoc  analyses  of  treated  wound  area  excised  by  TW  area  (TBSA)  and  baseline  burn  area  in  DPT 
wounds  (mITT  population)  support  the  findings  of  the  primary  analysis  and  show  that  surgical 
debridement  of  DPT  wounds  can  be  reduced  by  NexoBrid  regardless  of  TW  or  burn  area  size  (0-30% 
TBSA).  
Percent treated wound autografted 
The  percent  (number)  of  wound  autografts  performed  was  significantly  lower  in  the  DEBRASE  group 
(17.9%, 19/106 wounds) vs. the SOC group (34.1%, 30/88 wounds) (p=0.0099, MITT population)  
Percent treated Wound Autografted (MITT Population) 
NEXOBRID 
(N=49) 
106 wounds 
N 
(wounds
) 
106 
19 
87 
106 
% 
17.9 
82.1 
SOC 
(N=48) 
88 wounds 
N 
(wounds
) 
% 
30 
58 
88 
88 
34.1 
65.9 
Wound autografts performed 
N (wounds) 
Yes 
No 
Percent treated wound area 
autografted 
N (wounds) 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
* p-value using parameter square root. 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02, module 5.3.5.1.3, Panel 11.1-3. 
8.4 ± 21.3 
0.0 
0.0 
100.0 
21.5 ± 34.8 
0.0 
0.0 
100.0 
p-
value 
0.0099 
0.0054
* 
Analysis of Evaluable B subset population also indicated lower percent of wound autografts performed 
in  the  NexoBrid  group  (21.9%)  compared  with  the  SOC  group  (31.9%);  however,  the  difference  did 
not achieve statistical significance due to smaller sample size in this subset population (p=0.16). Mean 
percent  treated  wound  area  autografted  was  9.2%,  and  20.6%  in  the  NexoBrid  and  SOC  groups, 
respectively,  with  no  statistical  difference  between  groups  using  two-way  ANOVA  model  or  repeated 
measurement ANOVA model. 
Additional data revealed that some wounds underwent additional wound excision procedures (including 
those for reasons other than eschar removal) and, autografting procedures, as wounds may have been 
grafted in multiple stages.  There was an excess of additional autografting procedures in the NexoBrid 
arm.  Data  on  differences  in  number  of  autograft  procedures  undertaken  or  in  the  wound  area 
autografted did not form part of the primary endpoint. 
Data  presented  showed  statistically  and  clinically  significant  differences  between  NexoBrid  and  SOC 
arms for the analysis of number of wound excision procedures undertaken for any reason and mean % 
wound area excised in all excisions, across different wound subgroups.  
Post hoc analyses showed that for mixed wounds ‘% wound autografted’ and ‘% wound area 
autografted’ was greater for NexoBrid debrided wounds than for SOC wounds 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Autografted wounds and procedures per depths in autografted DPT and Mixed wounds 
NexoBrid 
Number of Autografted 
wounds  
Total number of 
Autografting 
procedures 
67 
24 
43 
52 
19 
33 
Number of Autografted 
wounds  
Total number of 
Autografting 
procedures 
66 
29* 
37 
70 
29 
41 
Total 
DPT 
Mixed 
SOC 
Total 
DPT 
Mixed 
* In the SOC group, 37 wounds were autografted in the mixed depth wounds and 30 in the DPT wounds however, 
for only 29/30 DPT wounds, TTCWC data was available. 
NexoBrid: 
Numerator = 2664% (same methodology as described above). 
Denominator = 48 = the number of Mixed target wounds. 
Result: NexoBrid % of Mixed wound area autografted = 2664% / 48 = 55.5% 
SOC: 
Numerator = 2747% (same methodology as described above). 
Denominator = 60 = the number of Mixed target wounds. 
Result: SOC % of Mixed wound area autografted = 2747% / 60 = 45.8%. 
Secondary endpoints 
Percent treated wound excised of all wounds 
Patients  with  wounds  that  are  entirely  full  thickness  or  have  full  thickness  areas,  the  non-MITT 
population, were not included in the co-primary endpoints analyses. 
The  ability  of  NexoBrid  to  remove  the  eschar  from  all  burn  wound  depths  (ITT  population)  was 
supported  in  the  secondary  endpoint  when  the  percent  treated  wound  excised  was  analyzed  for  all 
treated wounds, including those with FT components. In the NexoBrid group the incidence of wounds 
that were excised was 24.5% (40/163 wounds) as compared to 70.0% (119/170 wounds) in the SOC. 
Significantly  less  treated  wound  area  was  excised  in  NexoBrid-treated  all  wounds  (13.1%)  as 
compared to the SOC group (56.7%); p<0.001. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent Treated Wound Excised (ITT Population) 
Excision (by 
tangential/minor/Versajet 
excision) or dermabrasion 
performed  
Percent wound area excised (by 
tangential/minor/Versajet 
excision) or dermabraded 
NEXOBRID 
(N=75*) 
163 Wounds 
SOC 
(N=81) 
170 Wounds 
N of 
N of 
(Wounds)  % 
(Wounds)  % 
p-value 
163 
170 
40 
123 
24.5 
75.5 
119 
51 
70.0  <.0001 
30.0 
163 
170 
13.1±26.9 
0.0 
0.0 
100.0 
56.7±43.3 
80.0 
0.0 
100.0 
<.0001** 
N 
(wounds) 
Yes 
No 
N 
(wounds) 
Mean± 
SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
*  One  NEXOBRID  subject  (no.  25B014)  was  included  in  the  ITT  population  but  did  not  receive 
study  treatment. This subject was excluded from this analysis since no information was recorded 
for  his  wounds.  Therefore,  the  163  wounds  in  this  analysis  belong  to  74  ITT  subjects. 
** 
root. 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02,  
parameter 
P-value 
square 
using 
These results were sustained in the Evaluable A subset population.  
Post hoc analyses for the non-MITT population (i.e. full thickness and mixed wounds) were performed 
showing also statistically significant differences in percent treated wound excised (table below). 
Post  hoc  analyses  requested  by  the  CHMP  showed  that  number  excision  procedures  for  any  cause 
exceeded  the  number  of  excisions  for  debridement  in  both  study  arms  but  more  so  in  the  NexoBrid 
arm than the SOC arm. Nevertheless, significant differences were still seen between the study arms in 
favour of NexoBrid treatment, where excision per wound rates were lower.  Total number of ‘all-cause’ 
surgical  excision  procedures  (including  preparation  of  wounds  for  autograft  placement  which  did  not 
include eschar removal) for the ITT, MITT and non-MITT populations are presented below.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to complete wound closure 
The  last  wound  closed  per  subject  was  taken  as  the  wound  closure  date,  representing  the  maximum 
wound-healing time per subject.  
Time to Complete Wound Closure* from informed consent form (ICF) Date (CC Population 
NEXOBRID 
(N=70) 
SOC 
(N=78) 
P-
Value** 
Log-rank 
Hazard  
Ratio *** 
95% CI 
Time  to  complete 
closure 
wound 
from 
date 
(Days) 
ICF 
N 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
70 
36.2 ± 18.5 
32.5 
8.0 
98.0 
the 
78 
28.8 ± 15.6 
23.0 
6.0 
74.0 
0.0185 
1.46 
(1.05, 2.03) 
*Wound  closure  date  per  subject 
last  wound  closed  per  subject. 
†  P-value  is  based  on  the  Log-rank  rest  of  Kaplan-Meier  survival  analysis  (ITT  population). 
‡ 
population). 
Cox 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02, module 5.3.5.1.3, Panel 11.2-3 
regression  model 
time  of 
Hazard 
based 
ratio 
(ITT 
on 
is 
is 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  hazard  ratio  (HR)  based  on  Cox  regression  model  and  the  Kaplan-Meier  plot  of  time  to  complete 
wound  closure  per  subject  from  ICF  date  (ITT  population)  show  similar  findings  (HR=1.46;  95%  CI: 
1.05- 2.03; p=0.0185); the Kaplan-Meier plot is presented in Figure 11.2-1 above. The Kaplan- Meier 
curve shows that 100% of the SOC subjects and approximately 97% of the NexoBrid subjects achieved 
wound  closure  within  75  days;  only  3%  of  the  NexoBrid  subjects  had  at  least  one  wound  which  took 
longer to heal. Results were similar in the Evaluable A subset population. 
Autografting is a surgical procedure which has a direct impact on the time to complete wound closure 
in NexoBrid debrided wounds. 
Since a positive correlation was found between autografts performed and time to wound closure only in 
the NexoBrid group (Spearman Correlation Coefficients test), the results were adjusted as well as the 
interaction between the groups as per the SAP. In the NexoBrid group, less autograft procedures were 
performed vs. SOC. 
When  wound  closure  results  were  adjusted  for  %  wound  area  autografted  as  well  as  the  interaction 
between the groups, it was found that there was no significant difference in time to wound closure per 
subject from ICF between the NexoBrid and SOC groups (ITT population); HR based on Cox regression 
model  was  0.925  (95%  CI:  0.595-1.436;  p=0.73  (Table  14.3-41).  Per  wound  results  from  ICF  date 
showed similar results. 
Time to Complete Wound Closure (Per Wound)* from ICF Date (ITT Population, Per Wound) 
NEXOBRID 
(N=70) 
SOC 
(N=78) 
P-
Value** 
Log-rank 
Hazard  
Ratio *** 
95% CI 
Time  to  complete 
closure 
wound 
date 
from 
(Days) 
ICF 
N 
Mean ± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
154 
31.3 ± 16.9 
28.5 
8.0 
98.0 
164 
27.4 ± 15.9 
22.0 
6.0 
74.0 
0.0738 
1.21 
(0.97, 1.52) 
to 
*Wound  closure  date  per  wound,  all  wounds  that  had  closure  data  were  included  even  if  they 
belonged 
population. 
**  P-value  is  based  on  the  Log-rank  rest  of  Kaplan-Meier  survival  analysis  (ITT  population). 
*** 
population). 
Cox 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02, 
regression  model 
complete 
included 
subjects 
Hazard 
based 
ratio 
case 
(ITT 
not 
the 
on 
in 
is 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The differences are larger (than seen in the mITT or ITT groups) when the subgroup of full thickness 
and mixed wounds are evaluated.   
A post hoc analysis of time to wound closure from end of debridement from the pivotal study highlights 
the extent of the differences in time to wound closure between the study arms. 
Whilst a useful sensitivity analysis, the Applicant has highlighted that for the wounds treated with non-
surgical SOC debridement, the majority of the wound healing process may occur during debridement, 
thus giving a very low TTCWC once debridement is complete, as it takes only for few days for wound 
closure post-completion of debridement. Ultimately, it is considered that analyses of TTCWC from the 
start of debridement are equally clinically relevant to TTCWC from injury as they take into account the 
benefit  of  earlier  eschar  removal  with  NexoBrid  and  minimise  the  possible  bias  associated  with  the 
decision to start debridement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Applicant  has  noted  that  in  subgroup  comparisons  where  the  wound  closure  modalities  were 
similar, time to wound closure results did not significantly differ.  These analyses provide some useful 
supportive  information,  though  they  are  somewhat  difficult  to  interpret  since  they  are  not  based  on 
fully  randomised  groups.    Instead  the  comparisons  are  made  as  defined  by  wound  closure  modality, 
where the choice of modality may differ between NexoBrid treated patients and patients receiving SOC.   
Further  analyses  presented  by  the  Applicant  during  the  assessment  demonstrated  that  there  were 
significant delays in autografting NexoBrid debrided DPT and mixed wounds and that these delays were 
the principal cause of the delays in TTCWC in NexoBrid debrided autografted wounds.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2- Time to 1st Autograft (TTAg) and use of multiple-stage grafting by wound depth 
(MW2004-11-02)  
2 For wounds which were treated with a combination of surgical and non-surgical eschar removal techniques, there were several 
wounds for which an autograft was performed on the surgically debrided area (the deep parts) while the rest of the wound area was 
continued to be debrided using non-surgical techniques. As these wounds (20 wounds) result in a negative time to autograft from 
end of debridement (as the debridement of the wound was completed after the autografting), the data is presented in Table 2 after 
omitting such wounds in order not to totally skew the data.  
Similar  TTCWC  from  end  of  autografting  procedure  data  were  noted  for  both  arms.  Therefore,  the 
delays  occurred  before  (or  during)  the  autografting  procedures.  The  relatively  fast  time  to  NexoBrid 
debridement  therefore  suggests  that  the  delay  in  TTCWC  results  from  delays  in  autografting  wounds 
post-debridement. 
Figure 1- TTCWC from end of Autograft procedure 
The analyses above are partially supported by those comparing TTCWC in NexoBrid and SOC debrided 
FT wounds, early (within 7 days on injury date) autografted wounds and non-autografted DPT wounds 
which  showed  only  small,  non-significant  differences,  suggesting  that  NexoBrid  has  a  minimal  or  no 
effect on wound healing. 
 
 
        
 
 
 
Timely eschar removal 
Percent (number) of subjects in the ITT population with successful eschar removal (defined as ≥90% 
eschar  removal  per  subject),  was  very  similar  in  both  study  groups,  90.5%  (67/74  subjects)  and 
90.1%  (73/81  subjects)  in  the  NexoBrid  and  SOC  group,  respectively  (Panel  11.2-6),  demonstrating 
that  NexoBrid  is  as  effective  as  SOC  in  eschar  removal.  Time  to  achieve  successful  eschar  removal 
from ICF was significantly shorter in the NexoBrid group (mean 0.8 days) compared to the SOC group 
(mean  6.7  days;  p<0.0001).  The  robustness  of  the  effect  was  also  demonstrated  across  age.  In 
accordance with the SAP, no statistical tests were performed for subgroup analyses. 
Second applications 
12 wounds on 8 patients required a second application of NexoBrid. The patients usually completed the 
second application within 24 hours of the first. The percentage increase in eschar removal as a result 
of  the  second  application,  whilst  sizeable  in  some  patients,  did  not  lead  to  avoidance  of  surgical 
excision or wound autografting, which were on the whole delayed (whether delayed or not by the 2nd 
application  is  uncertain)  and  required  surgical  treatment  of  a  wider  area  than  seen  with  SOC  in  the 
mITT  and  ITT  populations.  The  Applicant  however  states  that  the  majority  of  the  excisions  were  to 
prepare the wounds for grafting and that successful eschar removal had already been achieved by the 
time of surgical excision in the majority. Time to wound closure was delayed even more compared to 
the delays already seen in the NexoBrid ITT population. 
Blood Loss 
Blood loss was measured by mean changes in haemoglobin and haematocrit from screening visit to 24 
hours post-treatment. A statistically significant smaller reduction in mean haemoglobin values occurred 
in  the  NexoBrid  group  compared  with  the  SOC  group  as  indicated  by  mean  haemoglobin  and 
haematocrit reduction. Similar results were obtained in the Evaluable A population. 
Blood Loss (ITT Population) 
Change from screening to 24 hours post-
treatment 
Haemoglobin (mmol/L) 
N  
Mean at screening 
Mean after 24 h 
Mean of change 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Haematocrit (L/L) 
N  
Mean at screening 
Mean after 24 h 
Mean of change 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02 
NEXOBRID 
(N=75) 
61 
8.86 
8.34 
-0.52±0.96 
-0.50 
-3.30 
1.70 
61 
0.42 
0.40 
-0.03±0.06 
-0.02 
-0.20 
0.10 
SOC 
(N=81) 
55 
8.94 
7.91 
-1.04±1.03 
-1.00 
-4.30 
0.68 
55 
0.42 
0.37 
-0.05±0.05 
-0.03 
-0.22 
0.05 
p-value 
0.0061 
0.0374 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Exploratory endpoints 
Interstitial/Compartment Pressure 
Elevated  (above  >25  mmHg  threshold)  interstitial/compartment  pressure  especially  in  extremities  is 
considered  an  emergency.  For  diagnosis  in  this  study  direct  measurement  of  the  pressure  was 
required.  Results  for  interstitial/compartment  pressure  are  based  on  a  limited  sample  size,  since  the 
protocol  required  that  this  measurement  be  done  only  for  circumferential  extremity  wounds;  this 
occurred in a small proportion of the study subjects. 
Interstitial/Compartment Pressure in Circumferential Extremity Wounds (ITT Population) 
Interstitial/Compartment Pressure  
NEXOBRID 
(N=75) 
163 wounds 
SOC 
(N=81) 
170 wounds 
Prior to debridement or 
escharotomy (mmHg) 
Post debridement or 
escharotomy (mmHg) 
Change (mmHg) 
N (wounds) 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
N (wounds) 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
N (wounds) 
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02 
13 
17.8±11.1 
15.0 
5.0 
47.0 
12 
12.5±6.2 
13.3 
3.0 
22.0 
12 
-5.7±12.8 
-2.3 
-44.0 
5.0 
9 
16.2±12.6 
9.0 
6.0 
40.0 
7 
10.9±4.4 
8.5 
7.0 
18.5 
7 
-2.9±6.0 
-0.8 
-16.0 
1.0 
p-value 
0.7520 
0.5558 
0.5975 
A  post-hoc  analysis  of  hand  wounds  treated  with  NexoBrid  and  SOC  demonstrated  that  only  4/31 
(12.9%)  hand  wounds  required  excision  in  the  NexoBrid  as  compared  to  29/41  (70.7%)  in  the  SOC 
(ITT population). The number of DPT hand wounds autografted in the NexoBrid was only 1/24 (4.2%) 
vs. the SOC 10/20 (50%). The area autografted in the NexoBrid was 2.1% as compared to 30.5% in 
the  SOC.  None  of  the  NexoBrid  treated  hands  required  escharotomy  as  compared  to  4/41  (9.7%)  in 
the SOC.  
Time to Hospital Discharge 
Time to Hospital Discharge (ITT Population) 
Time to hospital 
discharge from 
ICF date (Days) 
N  
Mean± SD 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Source: CSR MW 2004-11-02 
NEXOBRID 
(N=75) 
72 
20.9±14.3 
16.0 
2.0 
62.0 
P-value 
0.1775 
SOC 
(N=81) 
81 
17.9±13.2 
15.0 
3.0 
75.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among  the  ITT  population,  mean  time  to  hospital  discharge  from  ICF  date  was  20.9  days  in  the 
NEXOBRID  group,  compared  with  17.9  days  in  the  SOC  group,  with  no  statistical  difference  between 
groups. 
Among adult subjects (>18 years) mean time to hospital discharge was longer in the NEXOBRID group 
(mean 23.0 days from injury, range 2-62 days) compared with the SOC group (mean 17.2 days from 
ICF, range 3-75 days). 
Conversely,  among  children  (≤18  years),  the  NEXOBRID  group  had  much  shorter  time  to  hospital 
discharge (mean 12.2 days from ICF Date, range 4-22) vs. the SOC group (mean 21.0 days, range 4-
54). 
In the ITT population of the pivotal study MW2004-11-02, mean time to hospital discharge from injury 
date  was  22.5  days  in  the  NexoBrid  group,  compared  with  20.2  days  in  the  surgical  SOC  group  and 
18.9 days in the NSD SOC group (dominated by more superficial wounds), with no statistical difference 
between groups (Table 16).  
The results per the sub-groups of autografted and non-autografted wounds revealed similar time to HD 
in  the  non  autografted  wounds  that  were  allowed  to  epithelialise  spontaneously.  Time  to  HD  from 
injury  was  comparable  in  the  NexoBrid  group  (16.3  days)  vs.  the  SOC  group  (16.8  days).  In 
autografted  wounds,  time  to  HD  from  injury  was  longer  in  NexoBrid  (28.6  days)  vs.  (21.6  days)  in 
surgical  SOC  due  to  autografting  at  a  later  stage,  further  illustrated  by  the  time  to  HD  of  the  NSD 
wounds (38.0 days).  
Summary of main study 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  study  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Summary of Efficacy for trial: Enzymatic Debridement in Burns Patients (Children & Adults): 
A Comparison to Standard of Care (MW2004-11-02) 
Title: Enzymatic Debridement in Burns Patients (Children & Adults): A Comparison to Standard of 
Care 
Study identifier 
MW2004-11-02 
Design 
This  was  a  multi-center,  open  label,  randomized,  two-arm  study  aimed  at 
evaluating  the  clinical  benefit  of  enzymatic  debridement  in  thermal  burn 
patients.  Adults  and  children,  hospitalized  in  burn  units,  with  deep  partial 
thickness  and/or  full  thickness  burns  ranging  from  5%-30%  TBSA  and  who 
met the entrance criteria were enrolled and randomized to receive NexoBrid 
or the Standard of Care (SOC) treatment.  
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Average duration was 4 months including a 3 
months follow-up. 
Not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Duration of Extension 
phase: 
Superiority of NexoBrid over SOC 
Not applicable 
Treatments groups 
NexoBrid 
4 hour treatment. 75 randomized patients and 
additional of 26 training patients (first patient 
at each site was treated with NexoBrid as part 
of the training protocol and were included as 
part of the safety population) 
 
 
 
 
 
Standard of Care 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Co-Primary 
% area 
wound 
excised 
Co-Primary 
% area 
wound 
autografted 
Secondary 
Secondary 
Secondary 
% area 
wound 
excised  
Time to 
complete 
wound 
closure 
Time to 
achieve 
successful 
eschar 
removal 
Database lock 
16 February 2010 
Results and Analysis  
Included surgical or non surgical standard of 
care treatments. Treatment duration was few 
hours to several weeks and included 81 
randomized patients. 
The % treated wound excised (by 
tangential/minor/Versajet excision) or 
dermabraded, in first surgery. Wounds which 
are entirely full thickness or have full 
thickness areas are excluded from this 
analysis. 
The % treated wound autografted of deep 
partial wounds where the potential tissue-
sparing effect may be seen. Wounds which are 
entirely full thickness or have full thickness 
areas are excluded from this analysis. 
The % treated wound excised (by 
tangential/minor/Versajet excision) or 
dermabraded, in first surgery (as described 
above), for all wounds. 
Time to complete wound closure from ICF date 
Timely eschar removal (debridement) from 
ICF date 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
Primary Analysis 
Co-Primary: Modified Intent to Treat (MITT)10 
Co-Primary analysis was per wound. The analysis was performed on the 
Debridement and wound management phase.  
Treatment group 
NexoBrid  
SOC 
Number of wounds 
Co-Primary-  
% area wound excised  
(ANOVA) 
STD 
Co-Primary- 
% area wound autografted 
(ANOVA) 
STD 
106 
5.5% 
88 
52.0% 
14.6% 
44.5% 
8.4% 
21.5% 
21.3% 
34.8% 
Secondary: Intent to Treat  
Analysis was per wound. The analysis was performed on the Debridement and 
wound management phase. 
Number of wounds 
163 
170 
10 Modified Intention-to-Treat (MITT) population consists of all randomized subjects with at least one wound that 
was entirely DPT, as evaluated in the pre-debridement assessment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Secondary- 
% area wound excised 
(ANOVA) 
STD 
13.1% 
56.7% 
26.9% 
43.3% 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Secondary: Complete Case  
Analysis was per patient. The analysis was performed on the wound 
management phase, during follow-up. 
Number of subjects 
70 
78 
Secondary- 
Time to complete wound closure from Inform 
Consent Form (ICF) 
(Log-rank test of Kaplan-Meier survival analysis) 
STD 
36.2 days 
28.8 days 
18.5 days 
15.6 days 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Secondary: Intent to Treat  
Analysis was per patient. The analysis was performed on the Debridement 
phase. 
Number of subjects 
67 
73 
Secondary- 
Time to achieve successful eschar removal from 
ICF 
(Log-rank test of Kaplan-Meier survival analysis) 
STD 
0.8 days 
6.7 days 
0.8 days 
5.8 days 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Co-Primary-  
% area wound excised 
(MITT, Per wound) 
Comparison 
groups 
Effect 
NexoBrid (106) vs. SOC (88)  
46.5%  
Weighted SD  
28.2% 
P-value 
<0.0001 
Co-Primary-  
% area wound autografted 
(MITT, Per wound) 
NexoBrid (106) vs. SOC (88) 
Comparison 
groups 
Effect 
13.1%  
Weighted STD   27.4% 
0.0054 
P-value 
Secondary-  
% area wound excised  
(ITT, Per wound) 
Secondary-  
Time to complete wound 
closure from ICF date 
 (CC, Per patient) 
Secondary-  
Time to achieve successful 
eschar removal from ICF 
date 
(ITT, Per patient) 
NexoBrid (163) vs. SOC (170) 
Comparison 
groups 
Effect 
43.6%  
Weighted STD   35.3% 
P-value 
<0.0001 
Comparison 
groups 
Effect 
NexoBrid (70) vs. SOC (78) 
(-) 7.4 days 
Weighted STD   17.0 days 
P-value 
0.0185 
HR (95% CI) 
1.46 (1.05, 2.03) 
Comparison 
groups 
Effect 
NexoBrid (67) vs. SOC (73) 
5.9 days 
Weighted STD   3.4 days 
P-value 
<0.0001 
HR (95% CI) 
0.25 (0.16, 0.40) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
An interim analysis was planned when the study reached 152 randomized 
completed subjects. An early stopping rule was used to terminate accrual to 
the trial at an interim point in the event that (1) the results would appear to be 
very promising or (2) indicate a futility result. Otherwise the study would be 
continued. As stopping rule number (1) was achieved, study recruitment 
stopped on October 15, 2009. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The CHMP during the assessment requested re-assurance regarding the quality of debridement, which 
was  also  particularly  raised  by  the  ad-hoc  expert  group.  To  substantiate  the  quality  of  debridement 
with clinical data, analyses were conduchted investigating the success rate of grafting since grafts will 
take only on completely clean wound bed. Data from studies MW2004-11-02 and MW2002-04-01 were 
used for these analyses. 
Skin grafting  
A  comparison  of  baseline  demographic  and  wound-related  characteristics  in  wounds  autografted 
shortly after debridement (1-2 days post debridement) (studies MW2004-11-02 and MW2002-04-01) is 
presented in Table 4 below. 
A graft take success rate of 91.3% was recorded in 16 patients participating in studies MW2002-04-01 
and MW2004-11-02, having 19 wounds that were debrided with NexoBrid and autografted shortly after 
use of NexoBrid (e.g. Day 1 and Day 2). 
Other types of grafts 
Biological  temporary  primary  coverage  (e.g.  Allograft,  Xenograft)  and  synthetic  dressings  (e.g. 
SuprathelTM) will take only, as autograft, on completely clean bed. In the pivotal (MW2004-11-02) and 
Phase II (MW2002-04-01) studies, unsuccessful “graft take” resulting in lack of adherence would have 
been more commonly termed as wound re-opening or decomposition in temporary primary coverage.  
 
 
 
 
As presented in Table 5 below, 74 wounds in NexoBrid and 27 wounds in SOC have been covered with 
such  dressings  shortly  after  debridement  in  the  pivotal  (MW2004-11-02)  and  Phase  II  (MW2002-04-
01)  studies.  None  of  the  wounds  in  both  arms  reported  any  wound  re-opening  or  decomposition 
following  coverage  with  temporary  primary  coverage,  during  the  period  of  7  days  post  complete 
debridement (as for assessments of autografts which are being performed 2-7 days after application). 
In addition, in the retrospective data collection study 35-98-910, graft take was recorded as incidence 
in a range rather than as a single value. For the purpose of this analysis, the mid value of the range 
was  taken.  The  success  rate  of  graft  take  in  35  wounds  grafted  shortly  after  enzymatic  debridement 
was 95%. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Special  studies  in  children,  the  elderly  and  in  patients  with  renal  and  hepatic  impairment  were  not 
performed.  
Supportive studies 
MW 2002-04-01: Enzymatic Debridement in Burn Subjects: A Comparison to Standard of 
Care  
This  was  a  Phase  II,  randomised,  multi-centre,  parallel,  observer-blind,  three-arm,  prospective  study 
to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  NexoBrid  in  comparison  with  its  vehicle  and  standard  of  care 
(SOC) in subjects with thermal burns hospitalised in burn units. Another objective of the study was the 
evaluation of possible deleterious effects of the vehicle on wound healing. The study was conducted at 
a total of 18 centres located in the following countries: 1 centre in Czech Republic, 2 centres in France, 
1 centre in Germany, 4 centres in India, 1 centre in Italy, 2 centres in Slovak Republic, 2 centres in the 
UK, 5 centres in the US. 
Main Inclusion Criteria 
  male and female subjects of 18-70 years of age 
 
 
 
 
 
  DPT and/or FT burns, ranging from 2%-15% total body surface area (TBSA) per wound treated 
but  not  more  than  30%  TBSA  burns  in  total.  The  wound  with  the  largest  continuous  area  of 
DPT  and/or  FT  burns  was  selected  as  the  TW  to  be  treated  with  NexoBrid  or  SOC.  NexoBrid 
was only placed on TWs. All other wounds of the same subject were treated with SOC. 
Main Exclusion Criteria  
 
 
 
 
other cutaneous trauma 
previous burn at the same treatment site 
study treatment of facial burns 
study treatment of hand burns and other burn sites potentially complicated by compartment 
syndrome 
  wounds that cannot be excised 
 
 
 
pregnancy and nursing mothers 
poorly controlled diabetes mellitus 
evidence  of  significant  haematological,  cardiovascular,  liver  or  neoplastic  disease;  (13)  other 
immediately life-threatening conditions (e.g. severe inhalation injury, immunocompromised, or 
pre-existing oxygen-dependent pulmonary diseases) 
 
chronic steroid intake 
  heavily contaminated burns 
 
burn wounds >30% TBSA. 
Methods 
Subjects were stratified into 3 groups based on the %TBSA of the DPT (mixed deep dermal) and/or full 
thickness burns of the TW: (Group A: ≥2% to ≤6% TBSA; Group B: >6% to ≤10% TBSA; and Group 
C:  >10%  to  ≤15%  TBSA.).  Subjects  were  then  randomized  at  a  ratio  of  2:1:1  to  receive  NexoBrid, 
Vehicle  or  SOC,  respectively.  Since  NexoBrid  and  the  vehicle  were  not  similar  in  appearance,  the 
individual who applied and removed the NexoBrid and Vehicle gels was different from the person who 
did the safety/efficacy assessments to maintain observer blinding. 
Prior to each treatment and after each important wound treatment procedural step, photographs of the 
TWs  were  taken  in  the  three  treatment  groups.  The  wound  was  characterized  by  assessing  the 
location, %TBSA, degree of burn’s depth, % of dry eschar and condition of the wound. 
DEBRASE  debridement:  After  wound  cleaning,  freshly  mixed  NexoBridGel  Dressing  (NexoBrid  powder 
was mixed 1:10 in Gel Vehicle and was applied in a dose of 0.02 g NexoBrid for cm2 of skin) was then 
administered topically to the TW at a thickness of between 1.5 and 3 mm. Likewise, Gel Vehicle (0.2 g 
gel  for  cm2  of  skin)  was  administered  to  the  TW  of  subjects  randomized  to  the  Vehicle  group  at  a 
thickness  of  between  1.5-3  millimetres.  Both  treatments  were  then  left  in  place  for  4  hours  under 
occlusive  dressing.  After  four  hours  of  NexoBrid  or  Vehicle  treatment,  the  occlusive  dressing  was 
removed.  The  amount  of eschar  removed  was  visually  estimated  by  the  investigator  and  recorded  as 
percentage of the intended treatment area of the wound. Following failure of the Vehicle treatment the 
 
 
 
 
subjects were debrided by SOC methods. One repeat treatment with NexoBrid could be applied but no 
more than two debridement procedures were permitted. 
SOC  treatment  included  two  modalities:  surgical  and  non-surgical  procedures.    Surgical  procedures 
that included tangential excision, minor excision, or excision/avulsion to fascia. Non-surgical methods 
included application of covers and/or topical medications to induce maceration or autolysis of eschar. 
Blood  transfusions,  if  required,  were  documented.  After  surgical  or  non-surgical  debridement  the 
wound was visually assessed for debridement efficacy. Subjects in the NexoBrid group were therefore 
treated by a combination of NexoBrid as well as SOC. 
Following  debridement,  wound  management  was  in  accordance  with  the  centre’s  normal  practice  and 
included: autografts, allografts, skin substitutes, xenografts, synthetic dressings, or medications.  
Following debridement, weekly follow-up assessments were performed and continued following hospital 
discharge until complete wound closure of all treated wounds.  Subsequently, monthly follow-up visits 
were  conducted  for  three  months  after  complete  wound  closure  for  all  wounds  during  which 
maintenance of wound closure, scarring and functional disability were assessed. 
Efficacy Variables 
The primary efficacy variable was: 
 
The time to complete wound closure following debridement (spontaneous healing or graft 
take). 
The secondary efficacy variables were: 
 
Time to >95% wound closure (epithelialisation), 
  % of the burn wound that was excised, 
  % TBSA that was grafted (any grafts: autograft, allograft & xenograft). 
Additional measurements were 
  % eschar removed from the TW by debridement, 
 
 
Time to start of debridement from time of injury, 
Time to complete debridement, 
  Number of debridement procedures, 
  Blood loss (as measured by blood transfused), 
 
Pain during and after debridement procedures (using a numerical pain-scale ruler) 
  Concomitant medication (narcotics, anesthetics). 
Analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy  variable  was  based  on  the  Intention-to-treat  (ITT)  population  (all 
randomised  subjects),  the  Complete  Case  (CC)  population  (all  randomized  subjects  and  treated 
subjects  with  complete  wound  closure),  and  the  Per  Protocol  (PP)  population,  which  consisted  of  all 
subjects in the CC population without major protocol violations. 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective  
The objective of the study was to explore whether NexoBrid impairs wound healing vs. SOC treatment 
as measured by time to complete wound closure (non-inferiority), and whether the gel vehicle had any 
deleterious effect on wound healing.  
Statistical Analysis Plan 
Data were initially analyzed using one-way ANOVA to compare differences among the three treatment 
groups  and  between  pairs  of  treatment  groups,  i.e.  NexoBrid  vs.  SOC,  and  NexoBrid  vs.  Vehicle.  An 
exploratory non-inferiority analysis was performed for the primary efficacy endpoint. A two-sided 95% 
confidence  interval  (CI)  was  calculated  to  determine  whether  the  time  to  complete  wound  closure 
following debridement with NexoBrid was within 25% of the time to complete wound closure with SOC 
or Vehicle. If the lower bound of the CI of the difference between NexoBrid and SOC fell above -25% of 
the  time  to  complete  wound  closure  in  the  SOC  group,  NexoBrid  was  to  be  declared  no  worse  than 
SOC.  Similarly,  if  the  lower  bound  of  the  CI  of  the  difference  between  NexoBrid  and  Vehicle  fell 
above -25% of the time to complete wound closure in the Vehicle group, NexoBrid was to be declared 
no worse than Vehicle. For analysis of the secondary variables, differences among the three treatment 
groups and between pairs of treatment groups were assessed using one-way ANOVA. 
Results 
Study Subjects 
A  total  of  160  subjects  were  screened,  148  of  whom  were  randomised  (ITT  population);  of  the  148 
subjects,  140  subjects  received  treatment.  These  subjects  were  randomized  in  a  2:1:1  ratio  to 
NEXOBRID (n=70), Vehicle (n=35), and SOC (n=35).  
  Of  the  140  randomised  subjects  that  received  study  treatment,  79  subjects  completed  the 
study  including  all  follow-up  visits  (NEXOBRID,  n=30;  Vehicle,  n=21;  SOC,  n=28).  Of  the 
61 subjects who withdrew from the study, 38 reached wound closure and were included in the 
CC data set (117 in total). Of the 23 subjects excluded from the CC data set, 22 had no wound 
closure data (early withdrawal 4, missed visits 3, incomplete wound closure 5, death 4, lost to 
follow-up 6, and one subject withdrew early from study treatment).  
Complete  Case  (CC)  Population:  all  randomized  and  treated  subjects  with  complete  wound  closure.  
Complete  wound  closure  was  defined  as  100%  epithelialisation  achieved  at  a  weekly  visit  or  >  95% 
epithelialisation achieved at weekly visit and confirmed at a monthly visit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects Disposition Flow Chart 
 
 
 
 
Baseline Demographics 
Table 25. Demographic Data (ITT Population) 
Parameter 
Age  (year)  at 
signed  informed 
consent 
Gender 
Race 
Weight  (kg)  at 
screening 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
N 
Male 
Female 
N 
Caucasian 
Middle Eastern 
Black 
Asian 
Other 
p-Value 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
NexoBrid 
(N=73) 
Vehicle 
(N=37) 
SOC 
(N=38) 
73 
35.4 
14.3 
33.0 
18-69 
36 
36.6 
10.9 
36.5 
18-63 
Among Group: 0. 745 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0. 666 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.481 
38 
37.3 
12.9 
37.0 
18-63 
73 
54 (74.0%) 
19 (26.0%) 
36 
25 (69.4%) 
11 (30.6%) 
Among Group: 0. 886 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0. 653 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 1.000 
38 
28 (73.7%) 
10 (26.3%) 
73 
40 (54.8%) 
1 (1.4%) 
8 (11.0%) 
23 (31.5%) 
1 (1.4%) 
36 
18 (50.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
5 (13.9%) 
13 (36.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Among Group: 0. 294 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.912  
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.155 
38 
22 (57.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
15 (39.5%) 
1 (2.6%) 
73 
69.1 
17.0 
70.0 
28-104 
36 
73.1 
20.5 
70.0 
42-127 
Among Group: 0. 570 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.278  
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.599 
38 
71.0 
21.0 
67.2 
42-140 
P-values  for  age  and  weight  are  from  one-way  ANOVA.  P-values  for  gender  and  race  are  from 
Fisher’s 
test. 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
Exact 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26. .Pre-Treatment Burn Description (ITT Population) 
Parameter 
Burn Depth 
Total 
TW 
Burned 
Surface  Area 
(%TBSA) 
Distribution 
of 
%TBSA 
Mixed  Deep 
Dermal/Third 
Degree TW 
Distribution 
degree/mixed 
N 
Second degree 
Mixed deep dermal 
Third degree 
Second 
deep dermal 
Second 
degree 
Mixed  deep  dermal/third 
degree 
Second 
deep dermal/third degree 
First 
degree/mixed 
dermal/third degree 
degree/second 
deep 
degree/mixed 
degree/third 
p-Value 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
N 
< 2% 
≥ 2% to ≤ 6% 
> 6% to ≤ 10% 
>10% to ≤ 15% 
> 15% 
p-Value 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
N 
< 2% 
≥ 2% to ≤ 6% 
> 6% to ≤ 10% 
>10% to ≤ 15% 
> 15% 
p-Value 
P-values 
are 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
NexoBrid 
(N=73) 
Vehicle 
(N=37) 
SOC 
(N=38) 
71 
1 (1.4%) 
23 (32.4%) 
6 (8.5%) 
24 (33.8%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
9 (25.7%) 
3 (8.6%) 
10 (28.6%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
5. (14.3%) 
2 (5.7%) 
14 (40.0%) 
1 (1.4%) 
1 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
11 (15.5%) 
10 (28.6%) 
8 (22.9%) 
4 (5.6) 
2 (5.7%) 
4 (11.4%) 
1 (1.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (5.7%) 
Among Group: 0. 590 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.800 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.363 
71 
6.4 
3.4 
5.0 
2-16 
35 
6.3 
3.3 
6.0 
2-15 
35 
6.7 
3.3 
6.0 
3-14 
Among Group: 0. 885 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0. 922 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.674 
71 
0 (0.0%) 
41 (57.7%) 
18 (25.4%) 
11 (15.5%) 
1 (1.4%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
19 (54.3%) 
13 (37.1%) 
3 (8.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
20 (57.1%) 
11 (31.4%) 
4 (11.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Among Group: 0. 794 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.474 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.781 
71 
4.8 
2.7 
4.0 
0-14 
35 
5.3 
3.1 
5.0 
2-15 
35 
5.2 
3.0 
4.0 
3-14 
Among Group: 0. 720 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.457 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.563 
71 
1 (1.4%) 
52 (73.2%) 
14 (19.7%) 
4 (5.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
25 (71.4%) 
8 (22.9%) 
2 (5.7%) 
0 (0.0%) 
35 
0 (0.0%) 
26 (74.3%) 
6 (17.1%) 
3 (8.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
Among Group: 0. 949 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.893 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.829 
from 
one-way 
ANOVA. 
There were no statistically significant differences in total burn surface area among the three treatment 
groups (TWs and non-TWs) for the ITT population (p=0.246). The mean total burn surface area ranged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 12.8 to 15.5% of TBSA. However, there was a statistically significant difference in the severity of 
non-TWs among the three treatment groups for the ITT population (p=0.005). Both the NEXOBRID and 
Vehicle  groups  had  significantly  more  subjects  (67.1%  and  73.0%,  respectively)  with  mixed  deep 
dermal (MDD) and/or 3rd degree burns than the SOC treatment group (39.5%).  
Efficacy Results 
Primary efficacy variable: Time to complete wound closure following debridement (spontaneous healing 
or graft take) 
Table 27. Time to Complete Wound Closure from Injury (CC and PP Populations) 
Parameter 
CC Population 
to 
Time 
complete  wound 
closure 
from 
injury (days) 
NexoBrid 
Vehicle 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
57 
34.7 
17.8 
32.0 
9-90 
95% CI of Mean  
(Two-Tailed) 
Lower Bound 
29.9-39.4 
27 
37.0 
22.6 
31.0 
14-106 
Among Group: 0.675 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.604 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.595 
28.1-46.0 
-5.4* 
PP Population 
Time 
to 
complete  wound 
closure 
from 
injury (days) 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
95% CI of Mean 
 (Two-Tailed) 
Lower Bound 
are 
52 
34.8 
18.6 
30.0 
9-90 
29.6-40.0 
26 
37.6 
22.9 
32.0 
14-106 
Among Group: 0.556 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.565 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.490 
28.3-46.8 
-5.3* 
SOC 
33 
32.4 
21.4 
29.0 
9-114 
24.9-40.0 
-9.5** 
31 
31.7 
21.1 
29.0 
9-114 
24.0-39.5 
-10.8** 
P-values 
ANOVA. 
*      Lower  bound  of  one-tailed  95%  CI  of  the  mean  difference  between  Vehicle  and  NexoBrid. 
**  Lower  bound  of  one-tailed  95%  CI  of  the  mean  difference  between  SOC  and  NexoBrid. 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
one-way 
from 
Study results demonstrated non-inferiority in wound closure time between NexoBrid treatment and the 
SOC treatment. 
The primary efficacy variable was also analysed by pre-specified stratification levels of %TBSA for the 
following  subgroups:  2%-6%,  >6%-10%,  and  >10%-15%  of  TBSA,  and  by  skin  grafting,  i.e.  TW 
autografted vs. TW not autografted.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28. Time to Complete Wound Closure from Injury by Wound Size (CC Population) 
Parameter 
%TBSA 
Mixed/3rd 
Degree 
≥2% to ≤6% 
CC Population 
Time 
to 
complete 
wound 
closure  from 
injury (days) 
>6% to ≤10% 
>10% 
≤15% 
to 
N 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
NexoBrid 
Vehicle 
SOC 
57 
43 
34.2 
18.3 
32.0 
9-90 
12 
37.0 
18.1 
31.0 
19-76 
2 
31.5 
12.0 
31.5 
23-40 
27 
21 
35.6 
23.2 
31.0 
14-106 
Among Group: 0.172 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.785 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.073 
5 
40.8 
23.9 
35.0 
21-81 
Among Group: 0.712 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.723 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.421 
1 
48.0 
0.0 
48.0 
48-48 
Among Group: 0.520 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.464 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.297 
33 
24 
26.3 
13.9 
23.0 
9-59 
6 
47.2 
34.9 
34.0 
18-114 
3 
51.7 
19.7 
61.0 
29-65 
P-values 
are 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
from 
one-way 
ANOVA. 
Table 29. Time to Complete Wound Closure from Injury by Autograft (CC Population) 
Parameter 
NexoBrid 
Vehicle 
SOC 
Autografted 
CC Population 
Time 
to 
complete 
wound 
closure  from 
injury (days) 
Not 
autografted 
N 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
57 
39 
38.5 
18.6 
34.0 
13-90 
18 
26.4 
13.0 
21.5 
9-58 
27 
16 
39.6 
25.0 
34.0 
14-106 
Among Group: 0.975 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.861 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.929 
11 
33.4 
19.2 
25.0 
16-81 
Among Group: 0.256 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.253 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.478 
33 
21 
38.0 
22.7 
33.0 
16-114 
12 
22.7 
15.1 
16.5 
9-56 
P-values 
are 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
from 
one-way 
ANOVA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no statistically significant difference in time to complete wound closure from injury in both 
the  CC  and  PP  populations  among  the  three  treatment  groups  for  autografted  wounds  (p=0.975  and 
0.895,  respectively)  or  for  wounds  which  were  allowed  to  heal  spontaneously  (not  autografted; 
p=0.256 and 0.237, respectively) 
Secondary Efficacy Variables 
Time to >95% wound closure (epithelialisation) 
Both  the  CC  and  PP  populations  showed  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment 
groups in time to >95% wound closure from injury among all wound sizes in MDD and/or third degree 
burns. Results for time to >95% wound closure from injury were also similar for autografted wounds in 
both  the  CC  and  PP  populations  (p=0.707  and  0.567,  respectively)  and  in  not  autografted  wounds 
which healed spontaneously (p=0.101 and 0.104 for the CC and PP populations, respectively). 
Percent of the burn wound that was excised 
For  all  three  treatment  groups,  the  percentage  of the  burn  wound  requiring excision  was  assessed  in 
the  ITT  and  PP  populations.  First  surgery  for  each  treatment  was  defined  in  the  NexoBrid  treatment 
group  as  an  additional  procedure  after  enzymatic  debridement  process;  in  the  Vehicle  group  as  an 
additional procedure after Vehicle application; and in the SOC group as primary removal of eschar or 
an additional procedure after non-surgical debridement. The % wound area excised was the % eschar 
removed  vs.  the  intended  wound  treatment  area  (TW)  when  the  type  of  surgery  was  specified  as 
tangential excision or minor excision. 
Table 33. Extent of Surgery: Subjects that Required Surgery (ITT Population) 
Parameter 
ITT Population 
Need for surgery 
Tangential 
excision  (in  first 
surgery) 
Minor 
excision 
(in first surgery) 
N 
Yes 
No 
p-Value 
N 
Yes 
No 
p-Value 
N 
Yes 
No 
p-Value 
NexoBrid 
(N=73) 
Vehicle 
(N=37) 
SOC 
(N=38) 
70 
50 (71.4%) 
20 (28.6%) 
35 
21 (60.0%) 
14 (40.0%) 
Among Group: 0.512 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.273 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.822 
35 
24 (68.6%) 
11 (31.4%) 
70 
14 (20.0%) 
56 (80.0%) 
35 
8 (22.9%) 
27 (77.1%) 
Among Group: 0.165 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.801 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.096 
35 
13 (37.1%) 
22 (62.9%) 
70 
8 (11.4%) 
62 (88.6%) 
35 
1 (2.9%) 
34 (97.1%) 
Among Group: 0.252 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: 0.266 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: 0.266 
35 
1 (2.9%) 
34 (97.1%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
NexoBrid 
(N=73) 
Vehicle 
(N=37) 
SOC 
(N=38) 
% Wound Area Excised 
First Surgery 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
p-Value 
49 
22.9 
34.2 
5.0 
0-100 
P-values 
are 
Source: CSR MW 2002-04-01 
from 
Similar results were observed in the PP population. 
21 
73.2 
39.6 
100 
0-100 
Among Group: <0.001 
NexoBrid vs. Vehicle: <0.001 
NexoBrid vs. SOC: <0.006 
one-way 
24 
50.5 
47.4 
60.0 
0-100 
ANOVA. 
Percent of TBSA of the wound that was grafted 
In this study, skin grafting included autografts, flaps, homografts, xenografts or skin substitutes.  
The  area  of  wound  grafted  was  higher  in  the  Nexobrid  arm  compared  to  SOC  (mean  80.4  vs  69.9) 
however the difference did not reach statistical significance. Similar results were also observed in the 
PP population. With regard to percentage of graft take, there were no significant differences amongst 
the  groups  in  the  outcome  of  operations  in  subjects  following  first,  second  or  third  surgery  (ITT 
population;  p=0.182,  0.657,  and  0.583,  respectively).  Similar  results  were  also  observed  in  the  PP 
population.  Similar  numbers  of  wounds  administered  NexoBrid  and  SOC  received  grafts  or  skin 
substitutes. 
Additional Measurements 
 
 
 
Percentage eschar removed vs. intended wound area 
Time to start debridement from time of injury 
Time to complete debridement 
There was no statistically significant difference in the percentage of eschar removed from the intended 
wound treatment area between the NexoBrid and SOC treatment groups (88.5% vs. 92.7%, p=0.261). 
The  Vehicle  removed  only  2.8%  of  eschar  (NexoBrid  vs.  Vehicle,  p<0.001).  There  was  a  statistically 
significant  difference  between  the  NexoBrid  and  the  SOC  treatment  group  in  the  time  to  start  of 
debridement  procedure  (mean  days  1.6  vs.  3.4,  p<0.001).  Moreover,  the  NexoBrid  treatment  group 
also demonstrated significantly less time (1.6 days) to completion of the initial debridement procedure 
compared to the SOC (14.3 days, p<0.001).  
In  the  ITT  population,  14.3%  of  subjects  in  the  NexoBrid  treatment  group  required  repeat 
debridement.  The  Vehicle  did  not  demonstrate  debriding  activity  (2.8%)  and  was  re-applied  for  only 
one subject; all subjects in the Vehicle group required further SOC treatment to achieve debridement 
(surgical and/or non-surgical). 
Blood loss (as measured by blood transfused) 
There was no statistically significant difference in the number of subjects who had blood transfusions 
during  their initial  hospital  stay  or  at  readmission  to  the  hospital  among  the three  treatment  groups; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28.8% in the NexoBrid, 29.4% in the Vehicle and 23.5% in the SOC treatment groups (p=0.877). The 
recorded amounts of blood transfused were similar for all three study groups.  
MW 2005-10-05: Safety Study on Enzymatic Debridement in Burn Subjects:  
A Comparison between NexoBrid Gel Dressing (NEXOBRID), NEXOBRID Vehicle and 
Standard of Care  
This  was  a  Phase  II,  randomised,  open-label,  three-arm,  single-centre  study  primarily  designed  to 
evaluate  the  safety  of  enzymatic  debridement  by  NexoBrid  in  comparison  with  Vehicle  and  SOC  in 
subjects with DPT and/or full thickness thermal burns.  
Objective 
The  main  objective  was  to  establish  that  NexoBrid  is  safe  in  the  treatment  of  burn  wounds  following 
corrective  actions  aimed  to  address  common  adverse  events  (AEs)  observed  in  earlier  stages  of  the 
previous Phase II study, MW 2002-04-01. The study was conducted at one centre in the US. Efficacy 
was evaluated as exploratory endpoints. 
Main Inclusion Criteria 
  male and female subjects of 18-65 years of age 
  DPT  and/or  FT  thermal  burns  of  1-10%  TBSA.  As  part  of  the  safety  measures  the  study 
treatment area was limited to ≥1% and ≤5% TBSA DPT and/or full thickness thermal burns.  
Main Exclusion Criteria 
  Other  severe  cutaneous  trauma  at  the  same  sites  as  the  burns,  or  previous  burn(s)  at  the 
same treatment site(s) or one or more burn wound that did not meet study criteria 
  DPT and/or FT facial burn wounds, >0.5% TBSA  
 
circumferential burns necessitating escharotomy 
  heavily contaminated burns of pre-existing infections 
 
 
 
 
general condition of subjects that would contraindicate surgery 
poorly controlled diabetes mellitus 
cardio-pulmonary disease 
chronic systemic steroid intake 
Methods 
 Study  MW 2005-10-05  was  similar  in  design  to  the  Phase  II  study  MW 2002-04-01  (see  above)  and 
similar  study  procedures  were  applied,  except  that  prior  to  wound  treatment  steps,  preventive 
analgesic  medication  was  administered  as  commonly  practiced  pain-free  dressing  changes  as  a 
corrective  measure  for  the  procedural  pain.  In  addition,  soaking  with  antimicrobial  solution  was 
performed  for  a  minimum  period  of  2  hours  before  and  after  NEXOBRID  application  as  a  corrective 
measurement to reduce wound infections and pyrexia. Subjects were randomised at a ratio of 1:1:1 to 
receive NexoBrid, Vehicle or SOC.  
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy Variables 
Due to the small sample size, all efficacy endpoints were of exploratory nature. The following efficacy 
endpoints were assessed: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to start of debridement from injury/randomization 
Percent eschar removed by debridement procedures 
Time to complete debridement 
Percent treated wound autografted 
Time to complete wound closure 
Time to hospital discharge 
Study Subjects 
31  subjects  were  screened  and  enrolled  in  the  study;  10  subjects  each  were  randomised  to  the 
NEXOBRID and Vehicle groups and 11 were randomised to the SOC group. One subject in the Vehicle 
group did not receive treatment; this subject was replaced with a subject who was randomised to the 
SOC  group.  Therefore,  31 subjects  were  randomised  and  30  were  treated.  Twenty-one  subjects 
completed the study. 
Table 36.  Demographic Data 
Parameter 
Age (year) 
Gender 
Race 
NexoBrid 
(N = 10) 
Vehicle 
(N = 10) 
SOC 
(N = 11) 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
N 
Male 
Female 
N 
Caucasian 
Middle Eastern 
Black 
Asian 
Other 
10 
52.5 
8.9 
54.5 
(36-63) 
10 
9 (90.0%) 
1 (10.0%) 
10 
7 (70.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (30.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
10 
34.8 
12.4 
35.5 
(18-60) 
10 
9 (90.0%) 
1 (10.0%) 
10 
4 (40.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
5 (50.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (10.0%) 
11 
38.8 
11.2 
37.0 
(24-62) 
11 
8 (72.7%) 
3 (27.3%) 
11 
6 (54.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
4 (36.4%) 
1 (9.1%) 
0 (0.0%) 
p-values are from one-way ANOVA. 
Baseline characteristics of the burn wound were as follows: The total burn surface areas (TWs and non-
TWs)  were  similar  among  the  three  treatment  groups  (NexoBrid,  6.1%;  Vehicle,  5.5%;  SOC,  5.6%). 
The  groups’  average  DPT/third  degree  burn  was  2.3-2.5%  TBSA.  In  all  three  treatment  groups, 
virtually all of the deep partial thickness / 3rd degree burn areas were specified as TWs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exploratory Efficacy Results 
Table 37. Summary of Debridement Procedures 
Parameter 
NEXOBRID 
(N=10) 
SOC 
(N=11) 
Vehicle 
(N=9) 
Treated  TW  area  (%  TBSA)  (per 
wound) 
Time  to  start  of  debridement  from 
injury (days) 
N* 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
Time  to  start  of  debridement  from 
randomisation (days) 
N 
%  Eschar  removed  by  debridement 
procedures (per wound) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
N* 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
Time to complete debridement from 
randomization (days) 
N 
Initial  Debridement 
tangential excision 
done 
by 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Range 
N 
Yes 
No 
14 
2.2 
1.5 
2.0 
1-6 
10 
0.6 
0.5 
1.0 
0-1 
10 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0-0 
14 
88.4 
12.8 
92.5 
65-100 
10 
0.2 
0.4 
0.0 
0-1 
10 
0 (0.0%) 
10 
(100.0%) 
13 
2.6 
1.1 
3.0 
1-4 
11 
1.4 
0.7 
1.0 
1-3 
11 
0.4 
0.7 
0.0 
0-2 
13 
100 
0.0 
100 
100-100 
11 
0.4 
0.7 
0.0 
(0-2) 
10 
2.9 
2.8 
2.0 
1-10 
9 
0.7 
0.5 
1.0 
0-1 
9 
0.1 
0.3 
0.0 
0-1 
10 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0-0 
9 
1.1 
0.6 
1.0 
0-2 
11 
11 
(100.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
9 
0 (0.0%) 
9 (100.0%) 
A “0” value indicates that debridement was performed on the same day as injury or randomization. 
*Number of wounds: Two subjects had two TW that were one continuous wound and treated in one 
session as one wound. However, these were designated as two TWs in error. These wounds were 
table. 
combined 
Source: CSR MW 2005-10-05 
statistical 
analyses 
the 
the 
for 
in 
The NexoBrid enzymatic debridement and Vehicle control procedures both took ~4 hours.  
The NexoBrid enzymatic debridement procedure removed on average 88.5% of the eschar per wound. 
Eight of 10 subjects had complete eschar removal and two subjects (the first two NEXOBRID subjects 
in  the  study)  had  incomplete  debridement  due  to  technical  difficulties  (incomplete  keratin  removal) 
during  the  cleansing  procedure  prior  to  debridement.  In  the  SOC  group  there  was  100%  eschar 
removal with tangential excision. The Vehicle did not demonstrate any debriding activity and no eschar 
was removed during the control procedures. 
Time to complete debridement from randomisation was 0.2, 1.1 and 0.4 days for the NexoBrid, Vehicle 
and  SOC  treatment  groups,  respectively.  For  the  two  subjects  in  the  NexoBrid  treatment  group  who 
had incomplete debridement, tangential excision was performed the next day in order to complete the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
debridement. NexoBrid debridement was not repeated for cases of incomplete debridement due to the 
burn  management  routines  of  the  burn  unit.  Two  of  the  SOC  subjects  required  additional  tangential 
excision  post-debridement.  All  9  subjects  in  the  Vehicle  group  required  tangential  excision  to  remove 
the  eschar  post-Vehicle  application.  Tangential  excision  was  performed  on  the  same  day  of  Vehicle 
application for one subject, the day after application for 7 subjects and 2 days after application for one 
subject.  
The mean areas of the treated wounds that underwent autografting were 61.1%, 76.0% and 60.0% of 
the total treated wound areas, for the NexoBrid, Vehicle and SOC groups, respectively. 
The mean time to observed complete wound closure from randomisation was 42.5 (SD= 6.9) days for 
the NexoBrid, 30.6 (SD= 10.8) days for the Vehicle and 30.4 (SD= 10.2) days for the SOC treatment 
group.  One  subject  in  the  NexoBrid  group  had  complete  wound  closure  56  days  post-randomisation 
and  three  subjects  in  the  SOC  group  had  wound  closure  16-20  days  post-randomisation.  Due  to  the 
small size of the groups these outlying data have influenced the mean values.  
Time  to  hospital  discharge  from  injury/randomisation  was  similar  among  the  three  study  arms  and 
ranged between 5.0 to 5.6 days from injury and 4.0 to 5.0 days from randomisation. 
Study 35-98-910: Retrospective Data Collection  
A  retrospective  clinical  data  collection  and  study  efficacy  assessment  was  performed  from  files  of 
hospitalised  burn  subjects  with  burn  wounds  treated  by  Debridase.  Only  for  subjects  who  had  signed 
consent  forms  and  had  full  photographic  documentation  of  their  wounds,  pre-  and  post-  eschar 
removal,  in  their  medical  files  were  included.  Data  from  a  total  of  154  patients  was  available  for  the 
analuysis. 
All Wounds: Analysis of Efficacy  
Dates  of  complete  wound  closure  were  recorded  per  wound  for  all  subjects,  if  known.  Therefore, 
complete  wound  closure  was  analyzed  per  subject  (all  wounds)  as  “yes”  or  “unknown”.  Data  were 
available  for  135  subjects  (87.7%)  for  whom  date  of  complete  closure  were  known;  however,  there 
was no reliable comprehensive information for 19 subjects (12.3 %). 
Time to Complete Wound Closure – Primary Efficacy Parameter 
The mean time to wound closure was 25.7 days. In addition, the mean time to complete wound closure 
for all wounds was very similar for both age groups; 25 days for children and 26.4 for adults.  
Percent Wound Area Grafted 
A total of 171/397 wounds (43.1%) that were treated with Debridase and required skin grafting, were 
assessed  for  %TBSA  grafted;  all  of  these  wounds  were  mixed  dermal  or  third  degree  burns.    35/397 
wounds (8.8%) underwent excision prior to grafting. The mean area of all the wounds was 2.7 + 1.9 
%  TBSA  pre-debridement;  0.8  +  1.5  %TBSA  was  grafted.  Thus  30%  of  the  original  wound  area 
debrided required grafting.  This difference was statistically significant (p<0.001). 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage Take of Skin Graft 
The  surgical outcome  results  following  skin  graft  showed  that  94.7%  (161/170)  of  the  wounds  had  a 
graft take of more than 90%  
Debridement 
Debridement was evaluated visually by the treating investigator during the study and was reassessed 
as  part  of  the  data  collection  using  photographs  of  the  wounds.    Percent  debridement  achieved  was 
calculated  in  relation  to  intended  debridement  area  and  to  the  actual  area  treated.    For  various 
technical  reasons,  e.g.  incomplete  keratin  removal  or  difficult  wound  locations,  Debridase  was  not 
always in complete contact with the wound; thus inadvertently leaving some small areas undebrided. 
The  actual  area  treated  was  assessed  after  taking  these  untreated  areas  into  account.  Debridement 
data were obtained for 388/400 wounds (97%). Debridement was achieved in 86.5% of the total TW 
mean  area  intended  for  treatment,  with  actual  area  treated  being  94.1%  of  the  original  TW  area. 
Therefore, debridement was achieved over 91.8% of the area that was in contact with Debridase. 
Examination of Subgroups 
Age: Analysis of Efficacy by TW 
Similar numbers of children (n=75, 0.6-15.9 years) and adults (n=79, 16.8-82.1 years) were included 
in this retrospective data collection. 
Time to Complete Wound Closure 
Mean  time  to  complete  TW  closure  was  21.4  +  16.5  days  and  22.9  +  16.2  days,  respectively  in 
children (67) and adults (71). For wounds ranging from 2% to <15% TBSA, closure was quicker for 
children in comparison to adults, mean time approximately 18 vs. 23 days, respectively. 
Percent Wound Area Grafted 
In children and adults treated with Debridase, 33 and 32 TWs, respectively, required skin grafting and 
were assessed for % TBSA grafted; all of these wounds were mixed dermal or third degree burns.  
2 TW in children and 12 TW in adults underwent excision prior to grafting, with mean pre-debridement 
areas  of  4.4±3.4  and  3.6±2.9%  TBSA,  respectively,  and  total  mean  TW  area  requiring  grafting  of 
1.5±2.5  and  1.0±1.6%  TBSA.  Thus,  out  of  the  original  TW  area,  only  34%  in  children  and  28%  in 
adults  needed  grafting.  This  difference  between  the  original  debrided  area  and  the  area  requiring 
grafting was statistically significant (p<0.001). 
Debridement 
In children, debridement was achieved in 87.8% of the total TW mean area intended for treatment and 
the actual treated area was 95.2 % of the original TW area. Therefore, debridement was achieved over 
92.0%  of  the  area  that  was  in  contact  with  the  Debridase.    In  adult,  debridement  was  achieved  in 
82.9% of the total mean area TW intended for treatment. The actual treated area was 91.2 % of the 
original  TW  area.  Therefore,  debridement  was  achieved  over  90.3%  of  the  area  that  was  in  contact 
with the Debridase. 
Hand Wounds: Analysis of Efficacy  
Time to Complete Wound Closure 
 
 
 
 
Dates  of  complete  wound  closure  were  recorded  per  hand  wound.    Complete  wound  closure  of  the 
hands was analysed as ‘yes’ or ‘unknown’. Closure data were available for 74/81 hands (91.4%) in 65 
subjects, with no information for 7 hands (8.6%). The mean time to complete wound closure was 21.1 
days. Hand wounds which underwent surgical grafting had a mean closure time of 17.6 days.  
Percentage Wound Area Grafted 
Thirty  out  of  80  hand  wounds  (37.5%)  for  which  these  data  were  available,  underwent  surgical 
treatment. The majority of the 30 hand wounds (63.3%) which were grafted were third degree and the 
remaining 36.7% were mixed deep dermal.  Only two hands underwent excision prior to the grafting. 
27%  of  the  original  hand  wound  area  needed  grafting.  The  difference  between  the  original  debrided 
area and the area requiring grafting was statistically significant (p<0.001). 
The surgical outcome for 26 out of 27 hand wounds was graft take of more than 90%. 
Debridement 
Debridement was achieved in 80.3% of the total mean area intended for treatment, with actual treated 
area being 89.7% of the original intended hand wound area. Therefore, debridement was achieved in 
over 90.1% of the area that was in contact with Debridase.   
Escharotomy 
None of the subjects and none of the hands had to undergo surgical Escharotomy. 
MW2012-01-02 
Study  MW2012-01-02  was  a  multi-center,  non-interventional,  assessor-blinded  study  designed  to 
evaluate  long-term  scar  formation  (using  MVSS  model)  and  Quality  of  Life  in  adults  (using  SF-36 
model)  and  children  (Burn  Outcome  Questionnaire1),  who  had  their  DPT  and  FT  thermal  burn  eschar 
removed by NexoBrid or SOC in study MW2004-11-02.  
The study assessments were performed al least 2-4 years post-wound closure within study MW2004-
11-02  (i.e.,  at  a  time-point  when  scar  maturation,  convalescence  and  rehabilitation  processes  would 
have ended).  
Eighty-nine (89) patients, who previously participated in study MW2004-11-02, were enrolled into this 
study, evaluating 191 wounds (113 in NexoBrid vs. 78 in SOC initially treated in MW2004-11-02).  
To  support  the  adequate  representation  of  MW2004-11-02  randomized  population  by  MW2012-01-02 
enrolled  population  the  applicant  submitted  the  following  analyses  on  demographics,  wound 
characteristics and outcome measures: 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1- Comparison of demographic data between enrolled population in MW2012-01-02 
and safety population in MW2004-11-02  
Table 2- Pre-treatment burn description data, MW2012-01-02 enrolled population and 
MW2004-11-02 safety population 
MW2012-01-02 enrolled population  
NexoBrid (N=113)  
                 N  
%  
DPT  
70  
61.9  
38  
33.6  
5  
4.4  
Mixed 
Burns  
Full 
Thick
ness  
SOC (N=78)  
N  
%  
35  
95% 
CI  
52.3-
70.9  
25-
43.1  
1.5-10   13  
30  
44.9  
38.5  
16.7  
95% 
CI  
33.6-
56.6  
27.7-
50.2  
9.2-
26.8  
MW2004-11-02 safety population  
NexoBrid (N=224)*  
%  
N  
SOC (N=170)*  
N  
%  
136  
60.7  
77  
34.4  
9  
4.0  
88  
60  
18  
51.8  
35.3  
10.6  
95% 
CI  
54-
67.2  
28.2-
41  
1.9-
7.5  
95% 
CI  
44-
59.5  
28.1-
43  
6.4-
16.2  
The demographic data show an imbalance in the proportion of DPT wounds in each arm (61.9 vs. 44.9 
NexoBrid  vs.  SOC).  A  greater  proportion  of  SOC  enrolled  patients  are  males  (72.2  vs.  82.9  NexoBrid 
vs. SOC). 
A comparison of co-primary and secondary efficacy outcome measures within MW2004-11-02 between 
patients  enrolled  in  MW2012-01-02  and  the  MW2004-11-02  randomized  population  did  not  show 
relevant  differences  regarding  outcome  measures  within  MW2004-11-02  between  MW2012-01-02 
enrolled population and MW2004-11-02 randomized population. The 95% CIs were overlapping for all 
efficacy outcome measures categories between the two enrolled populations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall and sub-group analysis of Scar assessment per wound – MVSS overall Score is described in the 
table below:  
The  overall  long-term  MVSS  scores  were  comparable  for  both  treatment  groups,  NexoBrid  and  SOC 
(3.12 and 3.38 respectively, p=0.88) (MVSS range 0-13).  
The mean MVSS score of autografted wounds, regardless of the treated arm, was higher (worse) than 
for non-grafted wounds and comparable between treatment arms. The MVSS was noticeably better in 
DPT wounds regardless of initial burns treatment. 
A positive trend in cosmesis and function in hand burns (MVSS score 3.14 in NexoBrid vs. 4.05 in SOC) 
can be seen. In contrast to this for a number of scar locations; thighs, legs and trunk, NexoBrid shows 
higher (worse) MVSS score than SOC treatment. 
The  MVSS  results  are  comparable  for  NexoBrid  and  the  SOC  sub-groups    with  slightly  lower 
(favourable) result in the Non-surgical SOC sub-group (3.12 and 2.16, respectively) and slightly worse 
in the Surgical SOC sub-group (3.12 and 3.78, respectively) (see table below)*.  
 
 
Scar Modulation Therapy 
The  number  of  wounds  requiring  scar  modulation  therapy  (e.g.  compression  garments)  was  roughly 
equal in NexoBrid patients compared to SOC (27.8% vs. 34.3%, respectively).  
Table 20- Scar Modulation Therapy, study MW2012-01-02  
Quality of life assessment 
In  QoL  assessments,  the  overall  results  in  adults  (SF-36  questionnaire)  appeared  to  be  comparable 
between  NexoBrid  and  SOC  groups  as  indicated  by  the  physical  component  score  (51.1  and  51.3, 
respectively) and the mental component score (52.3 vs. 49.1, respectively).  
In paediatric and adolescent patients, the total overall score (BOQ) was similar, 118.7 in the NexoBrid 
arms compared with 121.6 in the SOC arm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term cosmesis sequelae resulting from donor site scarring  
The overall results by MVSS of donor sites were comparable for both treatment groups and within the 
expected MVSS range for donor sites, which is < 1[1] (NexoBrid and SOC 0.75 vs. 0.97, respectively). 
Table 19- MVSS of Donor Sites, study MW2012-01-02  
NexoBrid-treated patient had fewer donor sites scars; the area of the donor sites in the NexoBrid arm 
was smaller vs. SOC (5.8% TBSA vs. 8.3% TBSA, respectively). 
Table 17- Incidence of Donor Sites, study MW2012-01-02  
Table 18- Area of Donor Site in% TBSA per patient, study MW2012-01-02  
Additional expert consultation 
The CHMP convened during the assessment an ad-hoc expert group to address specific questions. The 
deliberations  from  this  meeting  are  provided  below.  It  should  be  noted  that  subsequent  to  this  input 
further data was provided by the applicant in response to questions from the Committee, which were 
not  yet  available  at  time  of  the  expert  consitation  (e.g.  additional  data  to  substantiate  the  quality  of 
debridement). 
1)   What is the relative importance to the patient and the burns specialist of the following 
measures of efficacy/ clinical outcome: 
 
 
 
 
 
Removal of eschar 
Avoidance of surgical (tangential/ minor/ Versajet) excision 
Reduction in use of autografts 
Time to complete wound healing 
Cosmetic outcome 
The  complete  removal  of  eschar  is  the  prerequisite  for  most  burns  treatment  and  for  any  good 
outcome after a deep  burn. In terms of relative importance there was broad agreement amongst the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinicians and patient representatives that cosmetic and functional outcome is the most relevant clinical 
outcome.  
The clinicians agreed that the second most important outcomes are the reduction in use of autografts 
as  well  as  the  time  to  complete  wound  healing  as  this  is  correlated  to  the  risk  of  wound  related 
complications. 
The patient representatives stressed that minimising the amount of scaring as much as possible is of 
particular relevance. Also the reduction of donor sites is important given the pain and discomfort felt at 
these sites. Time to complete wound healing is of less interest compared to the overall outcome.  
In general, the experts were in agreement that the use of NexoBrid could be an effective debridement 
tool  and  may  be  considered  as  an  alternative  to  surgical  excision.  However,  this  would  require  the 
demonstration  of  adequate  quality  of  the  debridement  in  terms  of  completeness  and  optimal  depth. 
The  clinical  study  was  not  designed  to  generate  these  data  hence  the  experts  stressed  the  need  for 
further  data  on  quality  of  the  debridement  with  NexoBrid  (e.g.  histology  of  tissue  removed,  wound 
biopsies after debridement, number of failed auto grafts after NexoBrid treatment).  
Whilst  considering  the  potential  use  of  NexoBrid  for  debridement,  the  experts  stressed  that  this 
alternative procedure itself is not expected to impact the outcome of the overall burn treatment hence 
it  will  not  introduce  a  new  treatment  concept.  The  experts  were  in  agreement  that  the  avoidance  of 
surgical excision is only to be seen as of relative importance as prompt surgical excision in DPT and FT 
burns  and  subsequent  autografting,  when  performed  by  an  experienced  surgeon  preserving  all 
undamaged tissue, was considered as the fastest and most effective treatment. 
With  regard  to  the  main  clinical  study,  the  experts  noted  that  the  post-debridement  care  was  not 
standardized,  which  may  have  affected  time  to  complete  wound  closure.  Also,  the  study  was 
performed in many countries and regions introducing a very heterogeneous SOC treatment. This study 
design might have had an impact on some of the differences seen between treatment arms.  
2)   Based on clinical experience, is there a (sub) group of patients for whom the use of 
NexoBrid might be of particular interest considering any limitations of surgical or other 
non-surgical interventions? 
The use of NexoBrid might be of particular interest in debriding areas of special functional interest (e.g. 
hands or face, if the eyes can be effectively protected) where it is of major importance to preserve all 
undamaged  tissue,  e.g.  dermis.  However  it  should  not  be  used  to  avoid  grafting  as  grafting  is  of 
particular  importance  for  the  functional  outcome  in  these  areas.  The  experts  noted  that  data  on 
functional  outcome  in  the  dossier  is  sparse  and  that  functionality  should  be  measured  with  the 
appropriate tools. 
Debridement with NexoBrid might also be an alternative to the surgical excision when treatment needs 
to be initiated or performed in situations without immediate availability of qualified burns surgeons and 
in cases of mass causalities.  
Treatment of very large burns (over 60 % TBSA) could be of particular interest for use of NexoBrid to 
ensure optimal use of the limited number of donor sites. The experts noted however that the present 
proposal only allows the use of the product for up to 15% TBSA in one session, which is based on the 
lack of data on systemic exposure and safety considerations. 
 
 
The experts noted that there are some patients where surgical excision may not be possible due to the 
general  condition  and  co-morbidities  (e.g.  shock,  acute  respiratory  failure).  For  such  cases  a  non-
surgical alternative would be of interest.  
3)    Considering that there have been patients included in the clinical trials with co-
morbidities which could have led to increased morbidity / mortality is there a subgroup 
for which NexoBrid treatment cannot be applied? 
The experts advised that considering the fibrinolytic and antithrombotic activity NexoBrid should not be 
applied  in  patients  with  bleeding  conditions  such  as  bleeding  ulcers,  coagulation  disorders  including 
sepsis and patients with low platelet counts. Furthermore the experts considered that NexoBrid should 
be avoided in chemical burns, wounds contaminated with radioactive and other hazardous substances 
to  avoid  unforeseeable  reactions  with  the  product  and  an  increased  risk  of  spreading  the  noxious 
agent. Finally, the product should not be used in penetrating wounds, wounds in which foreign material 
(e.g.  implants,  joint  replacements,  pacemakers,  shunts)  and/or  vital  structures  (e.g.  larger  vessels, 
eyes) are or could become exposed during debridement. 
4)   How do you consider the plausibility and / or relevance of the trend to increased 
mortality in the clinical trial dataset taking into account other data, e.g. on blood 
transfusion, infections and systemic exposure to bromelain?  
According  to  the  experts  the  available  data  does  not  suggest  an  increased  mortality  related  to 
treatment with NexoBrid.  It was noted that in general the population included in studies investigating 
burn  patients  is  very  heterogeneous.  It  was  also  noted  that  the  exclusion  criteria  for  the  clinical 
NexoBrid studies excluded all patients with increased risk of mortality after burns and that the rate of 
mortality probably was affected by this patient selection. The data from the studies with NexoBrid do 
not appear to be out of the bounds concerning the occurrence of deaths in this population. 
The experts also noted that any treatment that will increase time to complete wound healing will also 
increase the risk for complications during healing. Theoretically, this could indirectly increase mortality. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The studies were designed as unblinded comparison to standard of care. In the pivotal study MW2004-
11-02  patienst  were  not  older  than  55  years  and  important  exclusion  criteria  were  probale  smoke 
inhalation, cardiopulmonary disease, peripheral circulatory disease, a general condition of patient that 
would contraindicate surgery and poorly controlled diabetes mellitus (HbA1c>9%). These criteria select 
patients  with  an  overall  better  prognosis  (excluding  some  multimorbid  patients)  which  is  in  line  with 
the generally good outcome (e.g. low mortality) in both arms of the study.  As recommended by the 
scientific  advice  received  study  endpoints  were  the  %  treated  wound  excised,  the  %  treated  wound 
autografted  of  deep  partial  wounds,  time  to  complete  wound  closure  timely  eschar  removal 
(debridement) and blood loss.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy data and additional analyses  
Primary endpoints 
The  pivotal  study  data  show  that  compared  to  standard  of  care,  NexoBrid  reduced  the  need  for 
excisional surgery in FT, mixed and DPT wounds (excised: 25% NexoBrid vs. 70% SOC) and the need 
for autografting of DPT wounds (autografted: 18% Nex vs. 34% SOC). Efficacy of eschar removal and 
reduction in excisional surgery was also demonstrated across wound depth and wound area subgroups 
(DPT  wounds;  Mixed  and  FT  wounds  and  wounds  of  TBSA  >5%-≤15%;  >15%-≤30%  respectively) 
with similar magnitudes of effect seen within the subgroups as for the entire population.  
Exploratory analyses also revealed similar benefits for subgroups according to site of wounds, including 
the hand areas. The hands are often affected in patients with severe or extensive burns and they are 
particularly  difficult  to  debride  with  surgical  excision  due  to  the  proximity  of  the  skin  to  underlying 
structures  which  are  vital  for  effective  hand  function.  During  the  clinical  development  programme, 
NexoBrid was used to treat 130 DPT and FT burns of the hands.  
None of the hands treated with NexoBrid required escharotomy whereas 9.7% (4 of 41 hands) in the 
SOC  cohorts  were  escharotomised.  It  was  later  claimed  by  the  Applicant  that  these  results  were 
accompanied by improved cosmetic results compared to SOC treated hand wounds, (MVSS score 3.14 
in NexoBrid vs. 4.05 in SOC). Whilst these results are encouraging it should be noted that the analyses 
were  exploratory  in  nature,  the  number  of  hand  wounds  small  (representing  only  14%  of  treated 
wounds  at  a  maximum)  and  that  there  were  some  concerns  with  the  robustness  of  the  long-term 
cosmetic data (see safety discussion). 
The primary endpoint data were supported by some data from the phase II study MW 2002-04-01 and 
the  retrospective  study,  35-98-910  which  showed  quick  and  clinically  complete  debridement  of  burn 
wounds  (according  to  the  definitions  employed  in  the  study).  However  there  were  some  conflicting 
efficacy data from study MW 2002-04-01 where similar numbers of wounds administered NexoBrid and 
SOC  received  grafts  or  skin  substitutes  and  wound  grafts  of  larger  area  were  placed  on  NexoBrid 
treated  wounds  compared  to  those  placed  on  SOC  treated  wounds,  although  the  difference  was  not 
statistically significant. 
Whilst  the  pivotal  study  endpoints  were  successfully  achieved  the  additional  benefits  of  minimising 
autografting  remained  uncertain.  The  real  magnitude  of  the  difference  for  DPT  wounds  between 
NexoBrid and SOC arms and its clinical significance was questioned due to the unblinded design of the 
pivotal  study,  the  differences  between  study  arms  in  post-debridement  wound  management  and  the 
small  reduction  in  absolute  terms  in  the  number  of  wounds  and  patients  undergoing  autografting. 
However,  it  was  clear  that  for  a  study  of  this  nature  an  open  trial  could  not  be  avoided.  The 
investigator’s knowledge  of treatment allocation and potentially a change in the characteristics of the 
wound  as  a  result  of  the  debridement  procedure  resulted  in  the  adoption  of  differing  wound  closure 
strategies post-debridement in the two study arms.  
In  agreement  with  the  outcome  of  the  Scientific  Advice  procedure,  the  co-primary  endpoint  of  ‘% 
wounds  autografted’  was  investigated.  However,  the  data  submitted  by  the  Applicant  showed  that  a 
higher number of autografting procedures took place than the number of wounds autografted. There is 
a 15 vs. 4 imbalance in the number of repeat autografts that occurred in DPT & mixed wounds, almost 
causing  the  number  of  autograft  procedures  in  both  treatment  arms  to  be  equal,  with  67  autograft 
procedures in the NexoBrid arm versus 70 autograft procedures in the SOC arm. A maximum of 29% 
of such wounds debrided with NexoBrid would have undergone repeat procedures but only 6% in the 
SOC group. The Applicant has argued that autografting procedures can be performed in a single stage 
or in multiple stages and that the ‘multiple stages’ approach is well established in burn care practice. 
In  a  single  stage,  the  eschar  is  removed  from  the  burn  wound  and  the  wound  is  entirely  grafted, 
whereas with the multiple stages wound closure strategy each of the burned areas is grafted according 
to the progression of the healing process. Therefore, the multiple grafting procedures in the NexoBrid 
or  SOC  wounds  were  not  due  to  graft  failures  but  rather  were  part  of  the  established  multiple  stage 
grafting approach.  From the Applicant’s response and from data submitted, the CHMP considers that 
this  is  plausible.  The  ‘multiple  stages’  strategy  is  essentially  trialing  wound  closure  by  spontaneous 
epithelialisation  for  wounds  or  areas  of  wound  with  likely  potential  for  healing  (e.g.  where  area  of 
remaining dermis persist) - when wounds partially covered with autograft developed non healing areas 
within the uncovered areas, these areas of the wound were also subsequently autografted. 
It  can  be  argued  that  number  of  autograft  procedures  performed  is  more  clinically  relevant  than 
number of wounds autografted, as each procedure is accompanied by preparation of the wound bed for 
the  graft,  harvesting  of  the  graft  from  a  donor  site,  known  risks  of  surgery  and  a  challenging  post 
operative  recovery  phase.  For  this  outcome,  for  the  mITT  population  (DPT  wounds),  it  is  likely  that 
there is no statistically significant difference between study arms (24 vs. 29 procedures).  
The  CHMP  notes  that  only  limited  information  on  the  use  in  the  paediatric  population  is  available. 
These data are insufficient to ascertain the efficacy of NexoBrid in this population. A dedicated phase 
III  study  including  paediatric  patients  has  alrady  been  planned  by  the  applicant.  The  CHMP  concurs 
that at present time the indication of NexoBrid should be limited to the use in adults only. 
Mixed wounds subgroup 
For the mixed wounds subgroup (making up 32% of the treatment wounds in the enrolled population) 
the  efficacy  or  clinical  benefit  of  NexoBrid  debridement  is  less  clear.  Data  for  the  ‘%  wound 
autografted’  endpoint  for  mixed  wounds  was  provided  and  showed  a  higher  percentage  of  NexoBrid-
debrided  mixed  wounds  autografted  than  SOC-debrided  mixed  wounds  (71%  vs.  63%)  and  a  larger 
mean  wound  area  autografted  (55.5  vs.  45.8%).  Further,  the  data  show  the  autograft  procedure  per 
wound  rate  to  be  higher  for  NexoBrid  debrided  mixed  wounds  (NexoBrid  0.90  vs.  SOC  0.68).  These 
data  are  in  line  with  data  provided  for  the  non-mITT  (mixed  and  FT  wounds)  population  during  the 
procedure and the phase II study data which showed larger areas of wound receiving autografts in the 
NexoBrid arm. Also, the data show the autograft procedure per wound rate to be higher for NexoBrid 
debrided mixed wounds (NexoBrid; 43 procedures/48 mixed wounds) (SOC; 41 procedures/ 60 mixed 
wounds).  Whilst  some  caution  is  required  in  interpreting  these  data,  as  they  result  from  post  hoc 
analyses  of  non-randomised  groups,  the  CHMP  questioned  the  observed  trend.  In  response,  the 
Applicant  argued  that  the  adverse  autografting  data  were  due  to  baseline  differences  between  study 
arms  for  the  mixed  wounds  subgroup.  NexoBrid  debrided  mixed  wounds  were  approximately  17% 
larger and had approximately 23% more DPT area and 27% more FT area than SOC debrided wounds. 
However,  whilst  proportional  differences  of  FT  and  DPT  areas  between  study  arms  appear  significant, 
the absolute differences suggest that they are less clinically significant. The Applicant’s justification for 
the detrimental autografting data for mixed NexoBrid debrided wounds to address the larger number of 
autografting  procedures  that  NexoBrid  debrided  mixed  wounds  underwent  compared  to  SOC  was 
questioned.  Therefore,  the  applicant  provided  additional  subgroup  analyses  to  show,  that  mixed 
wounds  in  the  NexoBrid  treatment  arm  with  a  comparable  %-age  of  FT  wound  area  did  not  have  an 
inferior  outcome  regarding  autografting  compared  to  the  SOC-treatment  arm.  The  importance  of 
balanced  baseline  characteristics  was  hereby  corroborated.  Overall,  the  CHMP  concurred  that  it 
appears not plausible that a negative effect of the NexoBrid debridement can have a detrimental effect 
on autografting solely in the mixed wounds. If NexoBrid had a negative effect, this should be present 
in  all  wound  subgroups.  Taking  into  account  the  diagnostic  limitations  to  correctly  determine  the 
wound  depth  in  mixed  wounds  before  debridement,  the  baseline  imbalance  and  subsequent  inferior 
outcome  is  considered  sufficiently  explained.  CHMP  also  acknowledges  that  this  unexpected  outcome 
may be related to a lack in experience with NexoBrid which in some instances induced wrong decisions 
regarding the timing and extent of autografting.   
Whereas the results of the first primary endpoint focus on the direct debriding effect of Nexobrid which 
was readily assessable (leading to unambigously interpretable data), the autografting results of the 2. 
endpoint  -  and  even  more  the  additional  subgroup  analyses  (on  non.randomised  mixed  wound-
subgroups) – might be confounded by other factors that influenced the post debridement management 
of  the  patients  (some  as  a  consequence  of  the  debriding  tool,  others  related  to  local  wound 
management  policies  or  perhaps  patient  preference).  The  non-standardised  post  debridement  wound 
management significantly hamper interpretation of the 2. efficacy endpoint results.  
To avoid any negative impact of NexoBrid treatment on TTCWC – as a risk minimisation measure – on 
the  other  hand,  warnings  have  been  implemented  into  the  SmPC  to  ensure  direct  autografting  of  all 
wounds / wound areas with full thickness areas.  
Secondary endpoints 
Further  support  was  lent  to  the  primary  endpoints  by  the  secondary  endpoint  results,  the  time  to 
successful  eschar  removal,  percentage  of  all  treated  wound  excised  and  blood  loss,  which  appeared 
largely in line with the primary results. The speed of debridement of NexoBrid was clearly superior to 
SOC. On average NexoBrid debridement was started within 0.77 days and was completed by 0.8 days 
after ICF date compared to 1.26 days and 6.7 days respectively for SOC.  
Time to complete wound closure 
The  results  obtained  for  the  time  to  complete  wound  closure  (TTCWC)  analyses,  which  showed 
statistically significant differences in favour of SOC, were concerning in the beginning. Multiple post hoc 
analyses  of  TTCWC  from  different  start  points  (e.g.  start  of  debridement,  end  of  debridement  etc...) 
and  of  different  wound  subgroups  (non-mITT,  mixed  wounds,  FT  wounds)  confirmed  that  NexoBrid 
debridement  was  associated  with  an  increased  TTCWC.  The  effect  was  especially  clear  for  late 
autografted  DPT  and  mixed  wounds,  with  mean  delays  of  approximately  two  weeks.  It  has  become 
clear that throughout this procedure interpretation of the efficacy and safety outcome data, especially 
TTCWC,  has  been  complicated  by  the  heterogeneity  of  SOC  treatments  and  post-debridement  wound 
care. 
The  Applicant  initially  reasoned  that  the  delay  in  wound  closure  was  due  to  the  greater  number  of 
wounds being left to heal by epithelialisation (which takes longer but is less invasive) in the NexoBrid 
arm rather than being autografted. After further analysis it became clear that in the pivotal study there 
were  large  delays  in  autografting  NexoBrid  debrided  wounds  (time  to  autograft  from  end  of 
debridement in DPT wounds 15.0 vs. 1.7 days Nex vs. SOC). It is accepted that the differences in post-
debridement  wound  management  between  the  two  study  arms  led  to  delays  in  TTCWC  in  NexoBrid 
debrided wounds which were autografted late. 
Supportive  data  were  provided  by  the  Applicant  which  showed  there  to  be  only  a  small  difference  in 
TTCWC between study arms in the DPT subgroup where autografting had not occurred but significant 
differences  between  treatment  arms  (approx  2-3  weeks)  in  DPT  wounds  where  it  had.The  lack  of  a 
difference  in  TTCWC  in  non-autografted  wounds  indicates  that  NexoBrid  has  no  detrimental  effect  on 
the  wound.  Further  supportive  data  on  TTCWC  of  autografted  wounds  from  the  end  of  the  autograft 
procedure, wounds autografted early (i.e. within 7 days of injury), FT wounds and non-autografted DPT 
wounds from the end of debridement also showing only small differences between NexoBrid and SOC 
groups  were  also  submitted.  The  results  from  these  post  hoc  analyses  from  non-randomised  groups 
had to be interpreted with caution as some of the estimated differences between groups were based on 
relatively  small  numbers  in  subgroups.  However,  the  totality  of  the  data  demonstrated  that  the 
principal cause of the delay in TTCWC in NexoBrid debrided wounds was the delay in placing autografts 
on  such  wounds.  The  small  differences  seen  in  the  above  analyses  may  suggest  a  small  as  yet 
uncharacterised  direct  effect  of  NexoBrid  on  wound  healing  and  the  possibility  should  be  investigated 
further in the randomised controlled study MW2010-03-02.  
Based  on  the  available  data,  the  CHMP  considers  of  utmost  importance  to  provide  healthcare 
professionals with the adequate guidance and training to avoid potential delays in TTCWC. Appropriate 
warnings and a discussion of TTCWC have been incorporated into the SmPC and delay in TTCWC has 
been  included  in  the  RMP  as  identified  risk  with  associated  risk  minimisation  measures  including  a 
suitable educational material has been generated for circulation to health care professionals.  
Quality of debridement 
With regard to time to complete eschar removal, the quality of NexoBrid debridement was considered 
by  the  CHMP  to  have  been  adequately  demonstrated  by  the  Applicant  based  on  presentation  of  non-
clinical  data  on  quality  of  debridement  and  clinical  data  suggesting  the  completeness  of  NexoBrid 
debridement (surrogate data of similar graft failure rates of wounds which were autografted soon after 
debridement  in  NexoBrid  and  SOC  arms).  The  study  reports  for  the  additional  non-clinical  data 
presented  were  submitted.  The  reports  regard  two  animal  studies  using  the  pig  burn  wound  model, 
where  histology  results  were  provided  by  a  blinded  dermatohistopathologist.    Visual  and  histological 
results from Study A suggested that post-NexoBrid treatment no eschar could be detected, intact skin 
was  unharmed  and  that  remaining  dermis  was  similar  in  thickness  and  structure  to  that  seen  in 
wounds  treated  with  a  control  agent.  Results  from  Study  B  appeared  to  corroborate  these  findings. 
However, very little quantitative data (in comparison to study A) were provided with regard to depth of 
remaining  dermis  and  comparison  to  controls  for  this  study.  Overall,  the  Applicant  showed  to  an 
acceptable  degree  that  in  animal  studies  NexoBrid  does  not  remove  healthy  tissue  and  fully  removes 
eschar from wounds. Ultimately, it is expected for the clinical sequelae of incomplete and unselective 
debridement  e.g.  graft  failure  and  possibly  other  wound  related  complications  (especially  in  patients 
receiving  autografts  or  temporary  covers  shortly  after  NexoBrid  debridement)  to  be  apparent  in  the 
clinical data.   
Blood loss 
As  regards  blood  loss,  change  in  Hb  and  haematocrit  (HCT)  alone  were  not  considered  sufficiently 
sensitive  or  specific  surrogates  for  blood  loss  in  the  pivotal  study,  due  to  the  large  changes  in 
intravascular  volumes  in  patients  with  severe  burns  secondary  to  aggressive  fluid  replacement  (or  in 
some cases restriction), occurring at vastly different times, usually in a treatment dependent manner. 
The  difficulty  in  evaluating  blood  loss  related  to  burns  surgery  was  acknowledged  by  the  CHMP. 
However,  other  methods  are  more  commonly  used  in  practice  for  example  estimating  blood  loss  in 
terms  of  millilitres  of  blood  replaced  per  centimetre  squared  of  wound  excised  and  grafted  or 
estimating the blood volume exchanges used at the time of burn surgery. It was considered that in the 
pivotal  study  the  frequency  and  volume  of  blood  transfusions  may  provide  a  better  measure  of 
debridement related blood loss (see safety discussion). 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  pivotal  study  data  show  that  NexoBrid  significantly  reduces  the  amount  of  surgical  excision  of 
eschar required by burn wounds in adult patients in a significantly shorter period of time compared to 
SOC treatment. The primary endpoint data are supported by secondary efficacy outcome data from the 
pivotal  study  (including  timely  eschar  removal),  results  of  efficacy  analyses  across  subgroups  and  by 
data  from  the  dose-response,  phase  II  and  retrospective  studies.  Another  positive  trend  was  noted 
regarding  the  exploratory  endpoint  of  compartment  pressure  in  circumferential  burns  of  the 
extremities. There is also preliminary evidence of benefit particularly for hand wounds. 
Nexobrid  reduces  autografting  vs.  SOC  (approximately  18%  of  the  DPT  wounds  in  NexoBrid  were 
autografted  vs.  34%  in  the  SOC  arm).  Whilst  efficacy  has  been  shown,  some  uncertainties  remain 
regarding TTCWC (especially for autografted DPT and mixed wounds) and the amount of autografting 
in mixed wounds.  
It is important that NexoBrid should only be applied by trained healthcare professionals in specialist 
burn centres. The SmPC provides appropriate guidance to address findics from the clinical 
development, and a dedicated training programme will be required as part of the risk minimisation 
activities. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to efficacy: 
Description 
The MAH shall conducts a study on enzymatic debridement in burns patients 
(children and adults): A comparison to standard of care (protocol MW2010-03-02), 
based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date 
31/03/2017 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety and efficacy of NexoBrid were evaluated in Phase II and Phase III randomised studies, as 
well as a retrospective data collection.  
Table 40. Clinical Studies Assessing the Safety and Efficacy of NexoBrid 
Study No. 
Develop
ment 
Phase 
Primary 
Objective 
No. of treated 
Subjects 
No. of 
Paediatric 
Subjects 
Range of 
treated 
%TBSA 
Controlled Clinical Studies 
MW 2002-04-01 
Phase 2 
MW 2005-10-05 
Phase 2 
MW 2004-11-02 
Phase 3 
Safety and 
efficacy  
(0.02g 
NexoBrid/cm²)  
(total 140): 
NexoBrid 70, 
Vehicle: 35, 
SOC: 35 
Safety, efficacy  
(explorative) 
(0.02g 
NexoBrid/cm²) 
(total 30): 
NexoBrid 10, 
Vehicle: 9, 
SOC: 11 
Safety and 
efficacy  
(0.02g 
NexoBrid/cm²) 
(total 181): 
NexoBrid 
100*, 
SOC: 81 
Dose-Ranging /Single Arm Studies 
MW 2001-10-03 
Phase 2 
Safety and 
efficacy, Dose 
ranging study. 
(Total 20): 
NexoBrid 1g: 
6, 
NexoBrid 2g: 
7, 
NexoBrid 4g: 
7 
- 
- 
33 
- 
≥2% and 
≤30% yet 
treatment 
was 
restricted to 
one TW of 
up to 15% 
TBSA 
≥1% and 
≤10%, yet 
treatment 
was 
restricted to 
5% TBSA 
≥5% and 
≤ 30% 
≥1% and 
≤15% 
MW 2008-09-03 
Phase 2 
Safety and 
10 Planned, 8 
- 
≥ 4% and ≤ 
 
 
 
Study No. 
Develop
ment 
Phase 
Primary 
Objective 
No. of treated 
Subjects 
efficacy 
(exploratory), 
systemic 
absorption (PK) 
enrolled and 
analysed in 
interim 
analysis for PK 
and safety 
No. of 
Paediatric 
Subjects 
Range of 
treated 
%TBSA 
30% 
Retrospective Data Collection Study 
35-98-910 
Phase 
1&2 
Retrospective data 
collection to 
demonstrate the 
safety and efficacy 
of (0.02g 
Debridase/cm²) 
Total 154 (all 
Debridase) 
7711 
≥1% and 
≤67%% 
* Includes 26 training subjects who were not included in any efficacy analyses, but only in safety 
analyses. 
Adverse  events  (AEs)  were  recorded  post-enrolment  from  the  date  of  signing  the  informed  consent 
form (ICF), throughout the study, and at early termination in the phase II and III studies. 
In all five studies, safety assessments were based on the following: 
  General parameters: Systemic AEs, vital signs, pain assessments, laboratory tests, volume of 
blood transfusions (if required), as well as general functional disability assessments. 
 
Local parameters: Wound infection, local AEs graft loss, and short-term scarring assessments. 
AEs were reported and rated by the investigator for severity, seriousness and relationship to treatment 
throughout the hospital stay and during follow-up visits. 
Patient exposure 
Exposure by Number of Applications 
A total of 208 subjects were exposed to NexoBrid (safety population), 44 to Gel Vehicle alone, and 127 
to  SOC  treatment.  In  addition,  safety  data  is  available  from  154  subjects  from  a  retrospective  data 
collection study. 
5 Prospective Studies (NexoBrid) 
Retrospective Study (Debridase) 
N = 208 
N = 154 
NexoBrid  
N (%) 
Person-hours 
N (%) 
Person-hours 
1 application 
187 (89.9%) 
2 applications 
21 (10.1%) 
3 applications 
0 (0.0%) 
4 applications 
0 (0.0%) 
757 
169 
0 
0 
104 (67.5%) 
42 (27.3%) 
6 (3.9%) 
2 (1.3%) 
416 
336 
72 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
Adverse events 
More  subjects  in  the  NEXOBRID  treatment  group  experienced  at  least  one  AE  compared  to  the  SOC 
group.  During  the  development  programme,  the  following  precautionary  measures  have  been 
implemented to mitigate safety findings. 
Provision of a pre-treatment pain management protocol as commonly practiced during routine 
dressing change in standard of care of burns in order to prevent NEXOBRID related pain 
Use  of  approved  topical  antibacterial  solutions  during  the  soaking  stages  prior  to  and  post-
treatment in order to minimise the potential for infection and associated fever 
Treatment  of  a  subject's  entire  burn  wound  which  allowed  more  accurate  assessment  of 
systemic safety issues 
All AEs and SAEs were reviewed by an independent medical monitor during the studies. 
This  is  addressed  in  the  below  data  presentations.  The  majority  of  AEs  were  of  mild  or  moderate 
intensity irrespective of treatment. More subjects in the NEXOBRID treatment group compared to the 
SOC treatment group experienced an AE of severe intensity.  
In most studies, the majority of subjects experienced unrelated or only remotely related AEs, although 
more  subjects  in  the  NEXOBRID  treatment  group  experienced  AEs  that  were  considered  treatment-
related compared to the SOC group.  
With  regard  to  the  NexoBrid  training  group,  which  was  assessed  as  a  distinct  subgroup  for  safety 
outcomes, overall, a similar safety profile were observed when compared to the NexoBrid randomised 
group. 
Common adverse events 
Summary of Adverse Events in Descending Order of Frequency Whether or Not Treatment-
Related and Occurring in ≥3.0% of Subjects (Safety Population) 
NEXOBRID 
SOC 
N=208(%) 
N=127 (%) 
32 (15.4%) 
24 (18.9%) 
Adverse Event* 
Pruritus 
Anaemia 
Nausea 
Insomnia 
Headache 
13 (6.3%) 
13 (6.3%) 
6 (2.9%) 
6 (2.9%) 
Skin graft failure 
6 (2.9%) 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
6 (2.9%) 
5 (2.4%) 
8 (6.3%) 
6 (4.7%) 
5 (3.9%) 
5 (3.9%) 
2 (1.6%) 
1 (0.8%) 
7 (5.5%) 
* Pain, pyrexia and wound infection are presented in the table below, before and after the implementation of 
corrective measurements. 
 
Comparison of the Incidence of Adverse Events Pain, Pyrexia/ Hyperthermia, Wound 
Infection before and after corrective measures 
Group 1* 
Group 2** 
Adverse Event 
NEXOBRID 
SOC/Vehicle  
NEXOBRID 
SOC/Vehicle  
N=90 
N=70 
N=118 
N=101 
N (%) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
N (%) 
Pain 
21 (23.3) 
8 (11.4) 
4 (3.4) 
4 (4.0) 
Pyrexia/ hyperthermia 
32 (35.6) 
13(18.6) 
20 (17.0) 
16 (15.8) 
Wound infection 
6 (6.7) 
4 (5.7) 
7 (5.9) 
7 (6.9) 
* Group 1: data combined from MW 2001-10-03, and MW 2002-04-01, **Group 2: data combined from 
MW 2005-10-05,  MW 2004-11-02, and MW 2008-09-03,  
It  should  be  emphasized  that  basic  wound  management  in  the  NexoBrid  arm  changed  between  the 
‘Group 1’ studies and the ‘Group 2’ studies and were brought in line with standard of care during this 
period.    The  incidence  of  pain  in  the  NEXOBRID  group  was  reduced  from  23.3%  to  3.4%  after 
corrective  measures  had  been  taken  for  adequate  pain  management,  as  commonly  practiced  during 
routine  dressing  change  to  burn  patients,  in  the  later  clinical  studies  and  occurred  at  a  comparable 
incidence in both treatment groups. Pain and pyrexia and wound infection are included in the RMP as 
identified risks and adaequat wordings were provided within the SmPC. 
Wound  complications  occurred  more  frequently  in NexoBrid  treated  patients  in  the  pivotal  study  than 
SOC  treated  patients.  The  study  DSMB  and  investigators  could  not  attribute  the  majority  of  these 
events to NexoBrid or other underlying cause.  
 
 
To  prevent  wound  complications  related  to  delays  in  wound  closure  the  SmPC  clearly  indicates  that 
areas  of  full-thickness  and  deep  burns  should  be  autografted  as  soon  as  possivle  after  Nexobrid 
debridement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wound Infections    
Wound infections occurred more frequently in NexoBrid treated patients than SOC treated patients in 
earlier  studies.  However, the  Applicant  presented  data  to  show  that  after  implementation  of  infection 
control  measures,  such  as  antibacterial  soaking  of  wounds  prior  to  and  after  NexoBrid  treatment, 
wound  infection  rates  became  similar  between  the  study  groups  in  later  studies.  Wound  infection  is 
listed  as  an  identified  risk  in  the  RMP  and  adaequate  statements  to  prevent  wound  infections  are 
included into the SmPC. 
General Infections 
The  total  event  rates  for  Infections  &  Infestations  in  the  pivotal  trial  were  higher  in  the  NexoBrid 
groups than in SOC groups (34% vs. 20%). None  of the infectious AEs reported on NexoBrid or SOC 
were  considered  treatment-related  and  nominal  differences  in  infection  rates  between  treatment 
groups  depend  on  very  few  reports  and  from  open-label  trials.  Urinary  tract  infections  (UTI,  proteus 
infection),  skin  and  soft  tissue  infections  (burn  &  wound  infection,  pustules,  cellulitis,  graft  infection, 
staphylococcal infection) and systemic infections (sepsis, infection, bacteraemia) occurred with slightly 
higher frequency in the NexoBrid cohort.  
 
    
 
 
 
Preferred terms of infectious AEs (under System Organ Class of Infections and Infestations) 
reported during the pivotal study MW2004-11-02.  
In  the  safety  database,  the  rate  of  general  infections  was  seen  to  be  higher  in  NexoBrid  debrided 
patients than in SOC debrided patients. Data on timing of occurrence of infections were not available.     
Given  the  limited  size  of  the  safety  database  for  the  development  programme,  a  clear  pattern  that 
would indicate an increased infection risk associated with a product for local, topical application, cannot 
be  established.  Taking  into  account  the  still  limited  information,  the  need  to  be  observant  regarding 
systemic and local infection following treatment with NexoBrid is highlighted in the SmPC, and infection 
is included as an identified risk for targeted follow-up within the RMP.  
Antibiotic use 
Analysis  of  normalized,  total  antibiotic  use  per  patient’s  weight  in  the  pivotal  study  MW2004-11-02 
shows  that  “normalised”  therapeutic  use  of  antibiotics  was  1.33  times  higher  for  the  NexoBrid  arm 
than for SOC (0.729 vs 0.545) and 1.75 times higher in the phase II pivotal trial.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, this difference was not replicated in the normalization per days of antibiotics used (number 
of  Days  of  Therapy  =  DOT)  where  the  mean  duration  of  antibiotics  per  patients  was  shorter  in  the 
NexoBrid  group  (10.1  vs  11.9  for  prophylactic  use  and  18.2  vs  21.9  therapeutic  use).  The  use  of 
antibiotics in late autografted patients was not increased in the NexoBrid arm.  
Pain medication 
In  order  to  quantitate  the  aggregate  utilisation  of  pain  medication,  the  total  dose  of  a  specific  drug 
group  prescribed  to  a  patient  was  divided  (normalized)  by  the  patient's  weight.  These  scores  were 
summed  up  together  according  to  the  relevant  Second  level  ATC  group  and  divided  by  the  total 
number of patients at each study group (NexoBrid or SOC), resulting in a normalized Drug/patient/Kg 
value that represents the actual dose of drugs/patient for the entire treatment duration (Table 122.9.) 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar  doses  of  analgesics  and  anaesthetics  were  given  to  patients  during  the  study  in  the  NexoBrid 
arm as compared to the SOC arm.  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious Adverse Events 
Twenty-five subjects had 31 serious adverse events (SAEs), only one of which was considered possibly 
related to study treatment, i.e. skin graft failure that necessitated re-hospitalization for re-grafting. All 
other SAEs were considered unrelated or remotely related to study treatment.  
Summary of Serious Adverse events occurring in the Clinical Development Program of 
NEXOBRID 
Study No. 
SAE 
Subject 
Treatment 
Relatedness 
No. 
Group 
MW 2001-10-03 
None 
N.A. 
N.A. 
N.A. 
MW 2002-04-01 
Skin graft failure 
09B010 
NEXOBRID 
Possibly related 
Pain in extremity, 
10A062 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
oedema peripheral 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No. 
SAE 
Subject 
Treatment 
Relatedness 
Dyspnoea 
DVT 
No. 
Group 
10A102 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
Epilepsy 
25A078 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
Graft infection 
12A001 
Vehicle 
Not related 
Wound infection 
20C003 
Vehicle 
Not related 
Wound decomposition 
35B019 
Vehicle 
Not related 
Skin graft failure 
23A059 
SOC 
Not related 
Depressed level of 
37B023 
SOC 
Not related 
consciousness 
MW 2005-10-05 
Mental disorder 
10A003 
Vehicle 
Unknown 
MW 2004-11-02 
Disseminated 
02B015  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
intravascular coagulation  
Anaphylactic shock 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
Systemic sepsis/wound 
39A005  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
infection 
Sepsis / systemic 
40B001  
NEXOBRID 
Remotely related 
inflammatory response 
syndrome (SIRS) 
Wound opening due to 
45A027  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
fall 
Wound breakdown 
23B001  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
Mental deterioration 
03B001  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
Psychoactive drug 
41A005  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
induced acute psychotic 
event 
Functional disability in 
26A012  
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
neck movement because 
of hypertrophic scars 
DVT 
39A006  
NEXOBRID 
Remotely related 
Tinnitus 
26B014  
SOC 
Not related 
Sepsis 
41A012  
SOC 
Not related 
Atelectasis 
SOC 
Not related 
Wound infection 
25B015  
SOC 
Not related 
Reopening of the wound 
25A007  
SOC 
Not related 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No. 
SAE 
Subject 
Treatment 
Relatedness 
No. 
Group 
Worsening of neurogenic 
26A011  
SOC 
Not related 
overactive bladder 
Source: MW 2001-10-03, MW 2002-04-01, MW 2005-10-05, MW 2004-11-02,  
Deaths 
Six deaths occurred during the clinical development program. There were 5/362 (1.4%) deaths in the 
NEXOBRID  group  (all  considered  not  related  to  NexoBrid  by  both  the  investigator  and  DSMB)  and 
1/127 (0.8%) in the SOC group.  
Summary of Deaths (final diagnosis) Occurring in the Clinical Development Program of 
NEXOBRID 
Study No. 
Subject 
SAE name 
Treatment 
Group 
Relatedness 
MW 2002-04-01 
14A021 
Multi-system organ 
failure (MSOF), sepsis 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
35B018 
Respiratory failure 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
37B026 
Vomiting and aspiration  NEXOBRID 
Not related 
37B089 
Tachypnoea 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
MW 2004-11-02 
34B105 
MSOF 
NEXOBRID 
Not related 
45A028  
Murdered 
SOC 
Not related 
Four  deaths occurred in study MW 2002-04-01 in the NEXOBRID treatment group (Subjects 14A021, 
35B018, Subject 37B026, and 37B089) 
Subject  14A021  was  a  69-year-old  male  subject  with  a  medical  history  of  heavy  smoking  (>30 
cigarettes/day  for  50  years).  Existing  co-morbidities  were  emphysema,  hypertension,  hepatitis  C, 
several  bleeding  episodes  of  peptic  ulcer  which  required  transfusions,  diabetes  mellitus  type  2, 
hypercholesterolemia,  and  mild  von  Willebrand’s  disease.  This  subject  probably  suffered  from  Smoke 
Inhalation (SI) injury during the accident (fell head first into burning pit). The subject was admitted to 
hospital  with  deep  burns  of  28.5%  TBSA  and  was  intubated  and  sedated  on  the  intensive  care  unit 
(ICU).  Only  one  TW  of  4%  TBSA  was  successfully  treated  with  NEXOBRID  while  the  non  TWs  were 
treated  by  SOC  which  included  five  surgical  tangential  excision  and  skin  grafting  procedures.  One 
month  post-op,  still  ventilated  and  on  ICU,  the  subject  developed  Methicillin  Resistant  Staph.  Aureus 
(MRSA) sepsis with and disseminated idiopathic coagulopathy (DIC) leading to MSOF and died 70 days 
after NEXOBRID treatment with most of his burns healed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject  35B018  was  a  45-year-old  debilitated  (weighing  45  kg),  alcoholic,  heavy  smoker  with  COPD 
and  a  pre-existing  purulent  bronchopneumonia  male.  He  had  a  3-day  history  of  acute  purulent 
bronchopneumonia. He was admitted with 13% TBSA burns, of which only a single 7% TW was treated 
with  NEXOBRID.  His  bronchopneumonia  did  not  improve  and  9  days  post  NEXOBRID  treatment,  he 
developed  respiratory  failure  necessitating  intubation  and  mechanical  ventilation.  Klebsiella  was 
cultured from his tracheobronchial secretions, and may have had a secondary septicaemia. He expired 
14 days after NEXOBRID treatment to only one of his wounds. 
Subject 37B026 was 49-year-old male subject, admitted with 29.5% TBSA burn of which only 12.5% 
was  defined  as  a  TW  and  treated  with  NEXOBRID.  Prior  to  treatment,  scant  aerobic  organisms  were 
detected in blood cultures, and Klebsiella pneumoniae were detected in wound cultures. Two days had 
abdominal  distension,  severe  projectile  vomiting  and  aspiration.  The  subject  expired  with  acute 
respiratory  failure  less  than  two  hours  after  aspirating.  His  abdominal  distension  could  not  be 
explained. 
Subject 37A089 was a 21-year-old female subject that was admitted with self-inflicted kerosene burns 
over 27% TBSA of which only 7% were defined as a TW and treated with NEXOBRID. In addition, this 
subject  had  pre-existing  COPD,  pulmonary  hypertension  and  probably  smoke  inhalation.  She  expired 
12 days post NEXOBRID treatment in an acute respiratory failure. The autopsy report and independent 
opinions of two experts regarding the cause of death, all point to COPD, pre-existing cardiopulmonary 
disease,  kerosene  fumes  and  smoke  inhalation,  leading  to  intra-alveolar  haemorrhage  and  acute 
respiratory failure and hypoxic encephalopathy. 
All  four  subjects  had  significant  pre-existing  co-morbidity  present  at  the  time  of  enrolment  including 
COPD,  bronchopneumonia,  infection,  SI  that  developed  into  septicaemia,  all  of  which  represented 
exclusion criteria and very well known as predictors of complications, morbidity and mortality. Subject 
37B026 died of acute aspiration pneumonitis following vomiting that is quite frequent in the burn acute 
phase  (acute  gastric  dilatation,  medication  etc.).  No  causal  relationship  between  these  deaths  and 
NEXOBRID treatment could be established by the investigators or the DSMB.  
Two  deaths  occurred  in  study  MW 2004-11-02,  one  in  the  NEXOBRID  group  (Subject  34B015)  and 
one in the SOC group (Subject 45A028). 
Subject 34B015 was a 51.4-year-old Caucasian male with no medical history, who presented with 25% 
TBSA  II-III  degree  flame  burns  to  both  lower  arms,  right  hand,  both  thighs,  and  left  leg  (target 
wounds), and to his head and neck (non-target wounds) caused by an explosion of gun-powder he was 
carrying.  Several  days  after  application  of  NEXOBRID  he  was  transferred  to  ICU  after  developing 
pulmonary dysfunction with dyspnœa and pleural effusion. He suffered a cardiac arrest two days later, 
and  expired.  Autopsy  revealed  upper  respiratory  tract  changes  due  to  the  burn.  The  causes  of  death 
were cardiac arrest following burn pulmonary trauma (burn and SI) followed by septic shock (though 
no  bacteraemia  has  been  found)  and  MSOF.  The  DSMB  concluded  unanimously  that  there  was  no 
association  between  the  application  of  NexoBrid  and  the  subsequent  pulmonary  damage  and  the 
cardiac arrest. 
Subject  45A028  was  a  23.9-year-old  Caucasian  male  with  no  medical  history,  who  presented  with 
burns  to  both  arms,  including  hands  (TWs),  and  to  his  head  and  anterior  trunk  (non-TWs).    He 
received  SOC  treatment.  95  days  after  starting  study  treatment  the  subject  was  murdered.  This  SAE 
was determined to have not been study treatment-related. 
Other Observations Related to Safety 
 
Scarring 
Scarring assessments were made on a scale of 0-3, representing ‘none’ to ‘severe’ scarring. At all time 
intervals in study MW 2004-11-02, approximately 50% of subjects in the NEXOBRID and SOC groups 
had  mild  scarring,  whereas  the  other  50%  had  none  or  moderate  scarring.  At  the  final  three-month 
evaluation, there were more subjects in the NEXOBRID group with ‘none’ (37/179 wounds, 20.7%, vs. 
SOC 24/137, 17.5%) and fewer with ‘severe’ (2/179, 1.1%, vs. 4/137, 2.9%). 
 Summary Statistics in Scarring Assessments per Wound by 3 Groups (Safety Population) 
General Functional Disability 
General functional disability assessments were made on a scale of 0-3, representing ‘none’ to ‘severe’ 
disability. There was no statistically significant difference between the NEXOBRID and SOC groups for 
functional disability of the TW (p>0.17) in study MW 2004-11-02.  
Summary Statistics in General Functional Disability Assessments 
 
 
 
 
In a comparison by wound size, there was no consistent pattern in the proportion or severity of 
disability associated with %TBSA, time interval, or study group. 
Blood Transfusions and clotting parameters 
In study MW 2004-11-02 more blood transfusions were required in the NexoBrid arm compared to SOC 
(20%  vs.  17.3%)  (mean  whole  blood  transfused  2245ml  vs.  714.7ml).  Of  these  subjects  a  similar 
numbers  in  the  NEXOBRID  and  SOC  groups  had  AEs  of  anaemia  (10/20,  50%  and  8/14,  57%, 
respectively). Either whole blood or packed blood cells were administered.  
Blood transfusions were less common among subjects with smaller burns compared to greater %TBSA 
burns.  
Summary Statistics in Blood Transfusions (SAFETY POPULATION) 
Post  hoc  analyses  undertaken  by  the  Applicant  suggest  that  the  majority  of  blood  transfusions  that 
were administered to NexoBrid debrided patients occurred either pre, peri or post-surgically and were 
not related to debridement with NexoBrid.  
Event 
NexoBrid 
SOC 
Comments 
Incidence of transfusions: 
Overall 
20.0% (20/100) 
17.2% (14/81) 
Late autografted 
28.9% (13/45) 
40.0% (10/25) 
Surgery-related 
Mean volume: 
85% (17/20) 
100% (14/14) 
Total surgery-
related 
91.2% (31/34) 
All patients 
1,500 mL 
832 mL 
Without “outliers” * 
439 mL 
660 mL 
Late autografted 
2,025 mL 
968 mL 
Without “outliers” * 
448 mL 
742 mL 
* The “outliers” represent 4 patients with extensive deep burn >20% TBSA with severe co-morbidities 
undergoing several surgical procedures (Latex-related anaphylactic shock and DIC, late extensive 
grafting; severe smoke inhalation)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  NexoBrid  arm,  on  average,  patients  received  blood  transfusion  14  days  after  the  start  of 
NexoBrid application. Based on the PK profile of NexoBrid with T1/2 of approximately 12 hours, at 14 
days following NexoBrid application, no material is detected in the blood of treated patients, therefore 
the  need  for  blood  transfusion  is  probably  related  to  post-debridement  surgical  procedures  that  are 
known to involve blood loss. Out of the 20 patients who received blood in the NexoBrid arm:  
Sixteen (16) patients (80%) were transfused as part of the autografting procedure, not in proximity to 
the debridement (more than 5 days post debridement) as presented in Table below. Six patients out of 
the  16  who  received  late  blood  transfusions  (38%)  suffered  from  late  anaemia  during  the  wound 
healing phase.  
Two  patients  (10%)  received  blood  transfusion  on  the  same  day  as  NexoBrid  treatment;  the  blood 
transfusion  was  indicated  to  treat  pre-existing  anaemia  that  was  diagnosed  prior  to  NexoBrid 
treatment.  
Additional  two  patients  received  blood  less  than  5  days  after  the  start  of  NexoBrid  application,  one 
patient received blood on the same day that surgical excision was performed due to pre-debridement 
anaemia of 4.7 mmol/L Hb, and one patient due to reported pre existing anaemia (4.5 mmol/L Hb).  
Table 12- Timing of blood transfusion per patient  
                                                           NexoBrid N=20  
On Debridement day  
1-5 days post debridement  
6-10 days  
11-20 days  
>20 days  
Anemia on admission 2 (10%)  
2 (10%)  
6 (30%)  
6 (30%)  
4 (20%)  
SOC N=14  
4 (28.6%)  
7 (50.0%)  
1 (7.1%)  
2 (14.3%)  
0 (0%)  
In  the  NexoBrid  group  there  were  three  patients  who  received  a  large  amount  of  blood:  patients 
02B015,  05B001  and  40B001.  The  common  denominator  among  these  patients  was  that  all  had 
extensive, deep burns necessitating several episodes of grafting due to burn characteristics (see Table 
7).  
None of the NexoBrid-treated patients had treatment-related bleeding in the debridement period and 
no bleeding has been observed following NexoBrid use by the investigators or in the post debridement 
periods. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Clotting  parameters  were  collected  retrospectively  from  the  files  of  patients  previously  enrolled  into 
study  MW2004-11-02  who  agreed  to  participate  in  the  scar  assessment  follow-up  study  MW2012-01-
02. PT and PTT results are presented in Table 8 and Table 9.  
Available PT and PTT results were within the normal ranges in the 48-hrs period post debridement and 
in the overall period post debridement.  
There were no differences in PT between the 2 arms, NexoBrid and SOC.  
Most  of  the  patients  (in  both  arms)  with  PTT  results  above  the  normal  ranges  that  were  included  in 
Table 9 were on anticoagulation therapy in the same period that the blood tests were performed.  
Re-admissions in study MW2004-11-02  
There were 11 readmissions in the NexoBrid arm. Among these events, 8/11 events (73%) were pre-
planned  re-admissions  for  autografting  as  part  of  routine  burn  management.  Some  patients  in  the 
NexoBrid arm were discharged to exploit the epithelialisation potential and to complete this process at 
home.  Grafting  was  prescheduled  post  discharge  to  allow  wounds  to  exhaust  their  potential  for 
spontaneous epithelialisation and minimize grafting.  
Three re-admissions (3/100 patients, 3%) in the NexoBrid arm involved an AE (Wound decomposition/ 
Scar event/ Open Wound) and following re-admission were reported as SAEs.  
In  the  SOC  arm,  3  re-admission  had  occurred;  one  was  a  planned  re-admission  and  2  cases  (2/81, 
2.5%) were due to an AE (wound infection/ wound reopening).  
Laboratory findings 
In general, no clinically significant changes in serum chemistry, haematology and urinalysis occurred in 
any treatment group at any time point. Results were similar in adults and paediatric population. Mean 
 
 
 
 
levels  of  stress  indicator  glucose  were  elevated  in  both  groups  at  both  time  intervals,  increasing 
slightly post-procedure. Levels were slightly higher in the NEXOBRID group at both intervals. 
In  study  MW  2004-11-02,  changes  in  mean  haematology  parameters  between  the  two  time  intervals 
(pre-treatment and 24 hrs post start of treatment) were similar between study groups for the majority 
of parameters, most being reductions. Exceptions included statistically significant smaller reductions in 
the  NEXOBRID  vs.  SOC  group  in  haemoglobin,  (p=0.0061)  and  haematocrit  (p=0.0374).  In  children 
aged 4-18 years, mean reductions from pre-treatment to 24 hrs post-treatment values were smaller in 
the NEXOBRID vs. the SOC yet without statistical significant due to the small sample size of this very 
small cohort. 
Safety in special populations 
Intrinsic Factors 
No analyses of clinical safety data have been conducted examining the effects of intrinsic factors such 
as  gender,  height,  weight,  genetic  polymorphism,  or  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  on  the  safety  and 
tolerability of NEXOBRID. Analysis of safety data by age has been performed in study MW 2004-11-02. 
A  small  proportion  of  paediatric  subjects  experienced  AEs  relative  to  adults.  Similar  results  were 
observed when analysed by intensity or by relation to study treatment. 
Extrinsic Factors 
No analyses have been performed investigating the effects of extrinsic factors such as use of tobacco, 
alcohol, or other drugs or dietary habits on the safety and tolerability of NEXOBRID. 
Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
No  human  studies  evaluating  NexoBrid’s  effect  on  fertility  and  pregnancy  have  been  undertaken.  No 
clinical data on pregnancies exposed to Bromelain are available. It is not known whether Bromelain is 
excreted in breast milk. 
Immunological events 
Local Tolerance Studies 
Local tolerability was evaluated in all clinical studies as part of the safety assessment.  
Pruritus was one of the most frequently reported adverse event reported in NexoBrid patients and SOC 
patients, 15.4% and 18.9% of all subjects, respectively. 
Since pruritus is well-known event to be associated with the burn disease (reported incidence of 87% 
[van Loey et al., 2008]12, especially with healing of dermis, it is difficult to elucidate whether pruritus 
is caused by the study treatment, as the result of a local intolerability reaction or by the burn disease 
itself. 
Cutaneous,  topical  hypersensitivity  is  characterised  by  additional  local  symptoms  (mainly  rash  of 
various forms) and systemic symptoms that were not reported or observed in NexoBrid clinical studies. 
Therefore due to the absence of local allergic related, AEs reports the cause may be due to the process 
of wound healing itself.  
No  allergic  reactions  to  NexoBrid  were  reported  in  clinical  trials.  One  case  of  allergic  event  was 
reported  during  the  phase  III  study  MW2004-11-02,  which  was  considered  as  not  related  to  study 
12 Van Loey NE, et al., Itching following burns: epidemiology and predictors. Br J 
Dermatol, 2008. 158(1): p. 95-100. 
                                               
drug. The event involved an anaphylactic shock caused by an allergy to Latex, to which the patient was 
exposed pre-operatively. 
Allergic  reactions  to  Bromelain  (including  anaphylactic  reactions  and  other  immediate-type  reactions 
with  manifestations  such  as  bronchospasm,  angio-oedema,  urticaria,  mucosal  and  gastrointestinal 
reactions)  have  been  reported  in  the  literature.  Suspected  sensitisation  following  oral  exposure  and 
following  repeated  occupational  airway  exposure  has  been  reported.  In  addition,  a  delayed-type 
allergic  muccosa  reaction  (cheilitis)  after  longer-term  oral  mucosa  exposure  (mouthwash)  has  been 
reported. 
Bromelain allergy is believed to be highest in individuals with sensitivity to pineapples. In one study of 
a  specialised  tertiary  hospital  for  allergic  diseases,  it  is  estimated  to  affect  1.2%  of  the  general 
population  [Ortega  et  al,  2004]  13 .  Anaphylaxis  has  been  reported  in  62.5%  (20/32)  of  cases  of 
systemic pineapple allergic reaction [Kabir et al 1993]14. 
The  only  published  incidence  of  allergy  to  oral  Bromelain  are  8  cases  of  allergic  reactions  that  have 
been reported after consumption of 3.5 million Bromelain pills over 7 years [Maurer et al, 2001]15. The 
allergy was expressed as urticaria/rash and was controlled by antihistamine medication. 
The  Applicant  has  included  the  warning  in  Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  of  reported  cases  of  allergic 
reactions  to  Bromelain  in  the  literature  as  well  as  cross-sensitivity  between  Bromelain  and  Papain  as 
well  as  latex  proteins.  Allergic  reaction  was  also  included  as  important  identified  risk  in  the  Risk 
Management Plan. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Non-clinical  studies  showed  that  silver  sulphadiazine  and  povidone-iodine  had  an  inhibitory  effect  on 
the debriding activity, whereas mafenide acetate and gentamicin sulphate did not appear to negatively 
influence the debriding activity when used prior to treatment.  
There  are  no  non-clinical  studies  addressing  pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions.  Such  interactions 
affecting  the  efficacy  of  the  product  are  not  expected  owing  to  the  nature  of  the  product  (protease 
enzyme). Nevertheless since Bromelain consists of cysteine proteases, it cannot be excluded that they, 
if present in sufficiently high circulation concentrations, could inhibit drug metabolising enzymes.   
A single in vitro study using human microsomes demonstrated potent inhibition of CYP2C9 activity. To 
what extent these data predict the ability of NexoBrid to induce clinically relevant enzyme inhibition is 
not known. A relevant statement was included in the SmPC that this potential for cytochrome CYP2C9 
should  be  considered  in  patients  treated  with  substrates  of  CYP2C9,  such  as  warfarin  and  phenytoin 
(see 4.5 of the SPC). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Across all studies, no subject withdrew due to an AE or an SAE except for cases of death. There were 
two  premature  discontinuations  in  study  MW 2002-04-01  during  administration  of  study  treatment, 
one  in  the  NexoBrid  group  (with  the  subject  withdrawing  after  two  minutes  of  treatment),  and  one 
13 Ortega EV, et al., Most common allergens in allergic patients admitted into a thirdlevel 
hospital. Rev Alerg Mex, 2004 51(4): p. 145-50.  
14 Kabir I, Speelman P, and I. A., Systemic allergic reaction and diarrhoea after 
pineapple ingestion. Trop Geogr Med., 1993. 45(2): p. 77-9. 
15 Maurer HR, Bromelain: biochemistry, pharmacology and medical use. Cell Mol Life 
Sci, 2001. 58(9): p. 1234-45. 
 
 
                                               
subject  in  the  SOC  group  who  withdrew  during  SOC  treatment.  Subjects  who  did  not  complete  the 
studies did so mainly because they did not return to the scheduled visits post-treatment and were lost 
to follow-up. 
Post marketing experience 
Post-marketing data are not yet available. NexoBrid has not yet been marketed in any country. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Around  350  patients  were  exposed  to  NexoBrid  of  which,  a  total  of  180  patients  participated  in 
controlled studies and were exposed to NexoBrid (2 g NexoBrid powder/20 g of Vehicle gel/1% TBSA). 
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  event  in  the  NexoBrid  arm  was  pruritus,  occurring  at  an 
incidence  of  20.9%  in  the  pivotal  study,  MW  2004-11-02.  The  next  most  frequent  AE  was  anaemia 
occurring  at  a  similar  incidence  in  both  treatment  groups  (6.3%  in  both  groups).  Overall,  NexoBrid 
treatment  was  not  found  to  be  associated  with  a  significantly  increased  risk  of  serious  or  severe 
adverse events compared to standard of care. Serious infections occurred with similar frequency in the 
SOC and NexoBrid cohorts and the incidence was low (2 NexoBrid; 2 SOC in study MW2004-11-02). 
Wound pain and local wound infections were experienced more frequently by NexoBrid treated patients 
than  by  those  receiving  SOC  in  the  phase  II  study,  MW2002-04-01.  However,  the  implementation  of 
corrective  measures  in  the  phase  III  and  later  studies,  including  application of  dressings  soaked  with 
antibacterial solution (e.g. 3-5% sulfamylon or 0.05-0.5% chlorhexidine) to wounds and administration 
of  appropriate  preventive  analgesia  medication  as  currently  used  in  SOC  and  now  adaequately 
reflected  in  the  SmPC  eradicated  any  differences  between  the  two  treatment  arms.  Changes  to  the 
definitions  of  certain  adverse  events  (e.g.  wound  infection  classified  as  such  only  if  supported  by 
confirmatory biopsy and pain reported if only out of keeping with that normally experienced by a burns 
patient) occurred between the phase II and III studies.  
A slightly higher rate of wound complications was observed in the NexoBrid arm, which included graft 
failure,  wound  decomposition,  scar  events  and  ‘wound  complications’;  however  the  study  DSMB  and 
investigators  did  not  attribute  the  majority  of  these  events,  at  least  possibly,  to  NexoBrid  or  other 
underlying  cause.  It  is  acknowledged  by  the  CHMP  that  the  diagnosis  of  infection  in  burn  care  is 
difficult and can be ascertained only if well defined criteria are fulfilled. However the CHMP notes that 
the slightly higher rate in wound complications may be the result of to longer TTCWC seen in certain 
wounds  following  delayed  grafting  (see  also  discussion  on  efficacy).  Therefore  it  was  considered 
imperative  by  the  CHMP  to  make  appropriate  wound  management  following  the  treatment  with 
Nexobrid part of the planned educational material for health care professionals. These adverse events 
have been clearly labelled in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC and appropriate guidance to health care 
professionals is given in 4.2 of the SmPC to minimise the risk of infection. Further the planned survey 
drug utilisation study (MW2013-06-01) will evaluate the effectiveness of the applied risk minimisation 
activities. 
Analyses  of  infectious  adverse  events  from  the  NexoBrid  clinical  development  programme  were 
presented.  For  a  number  of  individual  infection  PTs  (e.g.  pneumonia)  and  groups  of  infections,  the 
incidence  rates  were  lower  than  reported  in  the  literature.  The  total  event  rates  were  higher  in  the 
NexoBrid  groups  than  in  SOC  groups.  (e.g.  in  the  pivotal  study:  34%  vs.  20%)  although  causal 
relationship was not established. In the same context a number of analyses of antibiotic use showed a 
slightly greater therapeutic use of antibiotics in NexoBrid patients than SOC patients. The therapeutic 
use  of  antibiotics  (dose  administered  normalized  per  patient  weight)  was  1.75  times  higher  for  the 
 
NexoBrid arm than SOC in the phase II study and 1.33 times higher in the phase III pivotal trial where 
corrective  measures  were  applied.  It  is  acknowledged  by  the  CHMP  that  patients  randomised  to 
NexoBrid debridement of wounds, especially the ones who had delayed autografting and wound closure 
(see discussion on efficacy), may have been subject to a number of additional wound dressing changes 
and  interference  of  wounds.  Further  CHMP  notes  that  nearly  all  infections  were  classified  as  mild  or 
moderate in intensity and resolved with appropriate treatment and appropriate discussion of infection 
risks  has  been  incorporated  in  the  SmPC.    Further  it  is  considered  by  the  CHMP  that  this  possible 
excess risk is associated with the delay in TTCWC or in autografting NexoBrid-debrided wounds rather 
than  the  product  itself.  The  appropriate  statements  in  SmPC  and  the  planned  risk  minimisation 
activities are taking this into account. 
In  the  pivotal  study,  more  blood  transfusions  were  required  for  the  NexoBrid  arm  than  the  SOC  arm 
(20%  vs.  17.3%)  (mean  whole  blood transfused  2245 ml  vs.  714.7 ml).  More  patients  with  NexoBrid 
treated wounds ≥5% - ≤15% TBSA received blood transfusions 12.7% (NEXOBRID) vs. 8%(SOC) and 
a number of NexoBrid treated patients with wounds >15% TBSA received large transfusions compared 
to SOC patients. Max. Packed cells transfused: 5750 ml (NEXOBRID) vs. 1750 ml (SOC). Max. whole 
blood  transfused:  11,000  ml  (NEXOBRID)  vs.  2400  ml  (SOC).  The  Applicant  provided  further 
information which did not suggest that NexoBrid treated patients suffered haemorrhages and bleeding 
events. The information provided instead revealed that a small number of patients with large wounds 
underwent  a  number  of  surgical  excisions  post-NexoBrid  debridement  which  required  large 
transfusions  to  correct  anaemia  or  to  replace  blood  lost  post-surgical  excision.  A  simple  holistic 
analysis  of  the  data  demonstrated  that  31/34  (91.2%)  of  the  blood  transfusions  in  the  pivotal  study 
were in proximity to and clearly associated with a surgical procedure, regardless of the study arm, vs. 
0/20  (0%)  in  proximity  and  associated  with  NexoBrid  debridement.  The  data  also  showed  that 
NexoBrid  treated  patients  who  required  transfusions  received  these  approximately  two  weeks  after 
NexoBrid  treatment.  The  CHMP  therefore  considers  that  the  observed  increase  in  transfusions  in  the 
NexoBrid study arm is not related to a direct effect of NexoBrid, but likely due to increased blood loss 
known to occur with late grafting (and surgical excision) of wounds. This view was also shared by the 
ad hoc expert advisory group to CHMP.  Adequate warnings were placed in the SPC (section 4.4 & 4.5) 
and  the  risk  management  plan  indicates  increased  tendency  to  bleeding  as  important  potential  risk, 
which will be further elucidated with studies MW2012-01-01 and MW2008-09-03. 
With regard to use of analgesics and anaesthetics, overall use was similar between study arms, where 
it  could  have  been  expected  for  use  of  such  agents  to  be  lower  with  a  topical  treatment  than  with 
surgery and other non-surgical treatments. The lack of difference in analgesic and anaesthetics use is 
considered  to  be  be  due  to  pain  medication  required  for  dressing  changes  which  may  have  occurred 
more  frequently  for  NexoBrid  debrided  wounds  as  time  to  placement  of  autografts  was  significantly 
longer for these wounds than SOC treated wounds. Current data on use of analgesia and anaesthesia 
in the pivotal study do not support any assertion that NexoBrid treatment is associated with less pain 
than  SOC.  However,  data  presented  during  the  procedure  do  show  that  it  is  associated  with  less 
surgery (whether or not related to debridement) than SOC.   
There were 5 deaths from medical reasons in NexoBrid patients vs. none in the SOC group (1 patient 
in the SOC group was murdered).  Neither analysis of the narratives, nor investigator opinion, nor the 
DSMB  have  associated  NexoBrid  with  the  deaths  in  patients  that  received  the  treatment.  Most  of  the 
NexoBrid treated subjects who died had significant pre-existing morbidity. 4 of the 5 NexoBrid patients 
had  pulmonary  disease  or  suffered  injury  related  pulmonary  consequences  (smoke  inhalation,  burn 
pulmonary  trauma,  COPD,  bronchopneumonia).  Currently,  a  biologically  plausible  mechanism  for  the 
interaction of NexoBrid and pre-existing pulmonary or cardiopulmonary disease is difficult to establish. 
However, a caution for use in such patients has been added to the SmPC. 
The  general  functional  disability  and  scarring  assessments  initially  performed  in  the  phase  III  pivotal 
study were considered of limited value with regard to the choice of assessment measure or length of 
assessment  period.  In  study  MW2012-01-02  treated  wounds  of  patients  originally  enrolled  in  the 
pivotal study were assessed using the modified Vancouver scar score (MVSS) assessment measure, a 
modified version of the validated VSS measure using blinded assessors. In addition, quality of life and 
patient  function  was  evaluated  with  the  SF-36  and  Burn  outcomes  questionnaire  (BOQ  [paediatric 
patients  only])  measures.  In  total,  approximately  50%  and  46%  of  the  originally  assessed  NexoBrid 
and SOC treated wounds respectively were re-evaluated. The overall MVSS data suggest no difference 
in long-term cosmetic  outcome  between  the  two  groups.  However  the  effect  of  any  bias  on  the  main 
study results remains difficult to estimate, given the limitations of the study design and methods. Data 
on  the  quality  of  donor  site  scars  were  made  available  showing  that  they  were  at  least  comparable 
between  NexoBrid  and  SOC  and  within  the  expected  MVSS  range  for  donor  sites.  However,  from  a 
quantitative  standpoint,  NexoBrid  patients  had  fewer  and  smaller  donor  site  scars.  Unfortunately  like 
the MVSS treatment wound data only approximately 50% of the patients enrolled into MW2004-11-02 
were  available  for  evaluation.  The  same  uncertainties  exist  for  these  data  as  they  do  for  the  overall 
MVSS  data  from  study  MW2012-01-02.  Analyses  presented  during  the  procedure  show  that  a  similar 
amount  of  time  had  elapsed  post  initial  treatment in  both  arms  and  that  there  appeared  to  be  minor 
improvements in scar quality in both arms over time. It should be noted however that the latter results 
represent one-off data from subgroups of patients at different stages of follow up rather than follow up 
of  a  single  cohort.  In  summary  CHMP  considers  the  long-term  follow-up  of  cosmetic  outcome  in 
patients in the pivotal study not optimal. A number of uncertainties still exist regarding the influence of 
baseline imbalances  on  the  overall  MVSS  data  presented  and  the  applicability  of  the  presented  MVSS 
data  on  approximately  50%  of  the  patients  initially  enrolled  in  MW2004-11-02  to  the  entire  cohort 
randomised  in  the  pivotal  study.  The  submitted  SF-36  data  do  not  suggested  worsening  of  QoL  or 
function in the NexoBrid arm. However the data suffer the same uncertainties as the MVSS data noted 
above.  The  use  of  the  SF-36  to  evaluate  the  adult  QOL  is  accepted  but  in  future  studies  a  clinically 
accepted,  validated  burns  specific  QoL  measure  should  be  used  in  conjunction  with  the  SF-36  to 
provide  supportive  data.  Nevertheless,  the  totality  of  the  data  does  not  suggest  that  the  long-term 
cosmetic  outcome  of  DPT  or  FT  wounds  treated  with  NexoBrid is  worse  than  those  treated  with  SOC. 
This is in line with sentiments expressed by the ad hoc expert group that the experimental treatment is 
not  expected  to  impact  the  outcome  of  the  overall  burn  treatment.  The  long-term  cosmetic  and 
fiunctional  outcome  has  been  addeded  as  missing  information  in  the  risk  management  plan,  and 
additional data will be generated through studies MW 2014-01-01 and MW 2010-03-02. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  reactions  of  the  use  of  NexoBrid  are  local  pain  and  transient 
pyrexia/hyperthermia. When NexoBrid was used in a regimen which included recommended preventive 
analgesia as routinely practiced for extensive dressing changes in burn patients as well as antibacterial 
soaking  of  the  treatment  area  before  and  after  NexoBrid  application,  pain  was  reported  in  3.6%  of 
patients, pyrexia/hyperthermia in 19.1% of patients. The frequency of pain and pyrexia/hyperthermia 
was higher without these precautionary measures. 
Several safety aspects were noted in the NexoBrid treatrment arms of the clinical studies, however the 
data suggest that at least a part of them are not associated to Nexobrid but to differences in the post-
debridement  strategy  between  the  study  arms,  which  is  now  known  to  be  the  difference  in  time  to 
placement of autografts. The SmPC and the planned educational material provide appropriate guidance 
to the treating physician in specialised burn centers to assure  early grafting of wounds with FT areas 
and  the  planned  risk  minimisation  activities  will  be  monitored  within  a  retrospective  drug  utilisation 
study.  
The data on long-term follow-up of cosmetic and functional outcomes indicate no detrimental effects. 
However  CHMP  takes  into  account  that  the  ad  hoc  expert  group  rated  long  term  cosmetic  and 
functional outcome the most important clinical outcome measure. Therefore, the Applicant will further 
investigate long-term cosmetic outcome in a future multicentre randomised control trial as identified in 
the risk management plan.   
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
Description 
The MAH shall conducts a study on enzymatic debridement in burns patients 
(children and adults): A comparison to standard of care (protocol MW2010-03-02), 
based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date 
31/03/2017 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
Details  have  been  provided  of  the  Teva  pharmacovigilance  system  (Version  9  dated  June  2010).  A 
statement signed by the Applicant and the qualified person for pharmacovigilance, indicating that the 
Applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person  responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary 
means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  occurring  either  in  the  Community  or  in  a  third 
country has been provided.  
The  CHMP  consider  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  Applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements  as  described  in  Volume  9A  of  the  Rules  Governing  Medicinal  Products  in  the  European 
Union  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  Applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
The CHMP recommends updating the flowcharts illustrating the flow of safety reports with timelines for 
the major processing steps with the next routine update to the DDPS. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
 
SUMMARY OF THE EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN  
Safety concern 
Identified Risks 
Pain  
Pyrexia/ 
hyperthermia 
Wound infection 
Delayed time to 
complete wound closure 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
 Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-0, titled: 
“Drug utilisation study in real 
life burn unit setting in burn 
patients treated with 
NexoBrid.” 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
 Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01) 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling)  
 Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration):   
- 
“Pain management must be used as commonly 
practiced for an extensive dressing change; it should be 
initiated at least 15 minutes prior to NexoBrid 
application” 
 Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) 
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling)  
 Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration):  
-  Under ‘Preparation of Patient’ and Wound Area’ and 
‘Removal of NexoBrid’: “Dressing soaked with an 
antibacterial solution must be applied for 2 hours”.  
 Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects)  
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling)  
 Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration):  
-  “Under Method of administration “Dressing soaked 
with an antibacterial solution must be applied for 
2 hours”. 
 Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use): 
- under ‘Monitoring’: “In addition to routine 
monitoring …, patients treated with NexoBrid should 
be monitored for: 
  Signs of local and systemic inflammatory and 
infectious processes”. 
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
1. Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (study MW2013-06-01) 
2. A multicenter, multinational, 
randomized, controlled, open-
label study, performed insubjects 
with thermal burns, to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of 
NexoBrid as compared to 
standard of care (SOC) treatment 
(study MW2010-03-02) 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling)  
 Section 4.2 Wound care after debridement: “Wounds with 
areas of full-thickness and deep burn should be autografted 
as soon as possible after NexoBrid debridement. Careful 
consideration should also be given to placing permanent skin 
covers (e.g. autografts) on deep partial thickness wounds 
soon after NexoBrid debridement.” 
 Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use): 
- Under ‘Prevention of wound complications’: “In 
NexoBrid studies wounds with visible dermal 
remnants were allowed to heal by spontaneous 
epithelialisation. In several cases adequate healing 
did not occur and autografting was required at a later 
date, leading to significant delays in wound closure 
which is associated with increased risk of wound-
related complications. Therefore, wounds with areas 
of full-thickness and deep burn should be autografted 
as soon as possible after NexoBrid debridement.” 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
Section 5.1: Pharmacodynamic properties  
The difference in time to complete wound closure is mainly 
related to the wound care strategy applied by the physician, 
where an attempt to minimise grafting and allow for 
spontaneous epithelialisation of the wound areas that still have 
dermis may prolong time to first autograft (time to autograft: 
NexoBrid: 14.7 days vs. SOC: 5.9 days) and hence prolong 
complete wound closure. 
Direct Interactions with  
CYP2C8/CYP2C9 
substrates 
Important potential risks 
Increased tendency to 
bleeding 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR. 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
1. A multicenter, multinational, 
randomized, controlled, open 
study in Children with Partial 
Thickness and/or Full Thickness 
Thermal Burns, to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of Enzymatic 
Debridement. A Comparison to 
Standard of Care, (Study 
MW2012-01-01). 
2. Feasibility Study: Enzymatic 
Debridement in Patients with 
Partial Thickness Burns, (Study 
MW2008-09-03). 
 
 
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
 
Sect
ion 4.5 (Interaction with 
other medicinal products): 
“NexoBrid, when absorbed, 
is an inhibitor of cytochrome 
P 450 2C8 (CYP2C8) and P 
450 2C9 (CYP2C9). This 
should be taken into account 
if NexoBrid is used in 
patients receiving CYP2C8 
substrates (including 
amiodarone, amodiaquine, 
chloroquine, fluvastatin, 
paclitaxel, pioglitazone, 
repaglinide, rosiglitazone, 
sorafenib and torasemide) 
and CYP2C9 substrates 
(including ibuprofen, 
tolbutamid, glipizide, 
losartan, celecoxib, warfarin, 
and phenytoin)”.  
 
Tar
geted Follow up 
questionnaire for drug 
interactions 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
  Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use): 
-  Under ‘Coagulopathy’: “It is not known if NexoBrid 
application has any clinically relevant effect on 
haemostasis. Reduction of platelet aggregation and 
plasma fibrinogen levels and a moderate increase in 
partial thromboplastin and prothrombin times have 
been reported in the literature as possible effects 
following oral administration of bromelain. In vitro 
and animal data suggest that bromelain can also 
promote fibrinolysis. During the clinical 
development of NexoBrid, there was no indication of 
an increased bleeding tendency or bleeding at the site 
of debridement.   
Patients should be monitored for possible signs of 
coagulation abnormalities.  
.”  
under ‘Monitoring’: “In addition to routine 
monitoring for burn patients… patients treated with 
NexoBrid should be monitored for: 
o 
 Potential effects on haemostasis”. 
- 
3.  Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01). 
 
 Section 4.5 (Interactions with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction): “Reduction of platelet 
aggregation and a moderate increase in partial 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
thromboplastin and prothrombin times have been 
reported as possible effects following oral administration 
of bromelain. In vitro and animal data suggest that 
bromelain can also promote fibrinolysis. Caution and 
monitoring is therefore needed when prescribing 
concomitant medicinal products that affect coagulation.” 
 
 
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
  Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration) under 
‘Preparation of patient and wound area’ subheading: “To 
prevent possible irritation of abraded skin by inadvertent 
contact with NexoBrid, such areas can be protected by a 
layer of a sterile fatty ointment” 
  Educational materials 
  Training 
Severe irritation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01). 
Allergic reaction 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Routine risk minimisation (labelling): 
  Section 4.3 (Contraindications):  “hypersensitivity to the 
active substance, to pineapples or papain, or to any of the 
excipients”. 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01). 
  Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use):  
-  Under ‘Hypersenstitivity reactions, skin exposure’: 
“There are limited clinical data to assess the 
sensitization potential of Nexobrid. Allergic 
reactions to bromelain (including anaphylactic 
reactions and other immediate-type reactions with 
manifestations such as bronchospasm, angio-oedema, 
urticaria, and mucosal and gastrointestinal reactions) 
have been reported in the literature. Suspected 
sensitisation following oral exposure and following 
repeated occupational airway exposure has been 
reported. In addition, a delayed-type allergic skin-
reaction (cheilitis) after longer-term dermal exposure 
(mouthwash) has been reported.. The potential of 
NexoBrid (a protein product) to cause allergic 
reactions should be taken into account when re-
exposing patients to bromelain-containing products 
at a later point in time. The use of NexoBrid at a later 
point in time cannot currently be recommended. 
In case of skin exposure, NexoBrid should be rinsed 
off with water to reduce the likelihood of skin 
sensitization.” 
-  Under ‘Cross-sensitivity’ subheading: “Cross-
sensitivity between bromelain and papain as well as 
latex proteins (known as latex-fruit syndrome), bee 
venom, and olive tree pollen has been reported in the 
literature.” 
under ‘Monitoring’: “In addition to routine 
monitoring for burn patients …patients treated with 
NexoBrid should be monitored for: 
o 
Signs of local and systemic allergic reactions” 
- 
 Section 6.6. (Special precautions for disposal and other 
handling): “There are reports of occupational exposure to 
bromelain leading to sensitisation. Sensitisation may have 
occurred due to inhalation of bromelain powder. Allergic 
reactions to bromelain include anaphylactic reactions and other 
immediate-type reactions with manifestations such as 
bronchospasm, angioedema, urticaria, mucosal and 
gastrointestinal reactions. This should be considered when 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
Increased mortality in 
patients with 
cardiopulmonary 
disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR. 
Off-label use in facial 
burns, perineum or 
genital area, single 
application of 
NexoBrid/Nexobrid to 
wounds >15% TBSA in 
one session, use in 
repeated applications  
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
Retrospective, drug utilisation 
study (MW2013-06-01) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
  Retrospective, drug 
utilisation study (MW2013-
06-01). 
NexoBrid Drug 
interactions with the 
following: 
  Anticoagulant/ 
blood-thinning 
agents 
mixing NexoBrid powder with the Gel. The powder should not 
be inhaled. In NexoBrid, the powder containing enriched 
bromelain proteolytic enzymes is present in the form of a 
lyophilised cake, reducing the likelihood of inhalational 
exposure. 
Accidental eye exposure must be avoided. In case of eye 
exposure, irrigate exposed eyes with copious amounts of water 
for at least 15 minutes. In case of skin exposure, rinse 
NexoBrid off with water.” 
 
 
Educational materials 
Training 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
  Section 4.4 (Special warnings):  
“NexoBrid should be used with caution in patients with 
cardiopulmonary and pulmonary disease, including 
pulmonary burn trauma and suspected pulmonary trauma”.  
 
 
Educational materials 
Training 
Labelled in SmPC in: 
 
 
Section 4.1 (therapeutic indications): “NexoBrid is 
indicated for removal of eschar in adults with deep 
partial- and full-thickness thermal burns.” 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration): 
“NexoBrid should not be applied to more than 15% Total 
Body Surface Area (TBSA) … A total wound area of not 
more than 15% TBSA can be treated with NexoBrid...A 
second and subsequent application is not recommended” 
 
precautions:  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
      Burns for which there is limited or no experience:  
There is no experience of the use of NexoBrid in perineal 
and genital burns. 
There is limited information on the use of NexoBrid in: 
-  Facial burn wounds”. 
Educational materials 
Training 
 
 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling): 
  Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use): 
Coagulopathy: 
“It is not known if NexoBrid application has any clinically 
relevant effect on haemostasis. Reduction of platelet 
aggregation and plasma fibrinogen levels and a moderate 
increase in partial thromboplastin and prothrombin times have 
been reported in the literature as possible effects following oral 
administration of bromelain. In vitro and animal data suggest 
that bromelain can also promote fibrinolysis. During the 
clinical development of NexoBrid, there was no indication of 
an increased bleeding tendency or bleeding at the site of 
debridement.   
NexoBrid should be used with caution in patients with 
disorders of coagulation, low platelet counts and increased risk 
of bleeding from other causes e.g. peptic ulcers and sepsis. 
Patients should be monitored for possible signs of coagulation 
abnormalities.  
.”  
- 
Under ‘Monitoring’: “In addition to routine 
monitoring for burn patients… patients treated with 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
 
NexoBrid should be monitored for: 
o 
 Potential effects on haemostasis”. 
 Section 4.5 (Interactions with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction): “Reduction of platelet 
aggregation and a plasma fibrinogen levels and a moderate 
increase in partial thromboplastin and prothrombin times 
have been reported as possible effects following oral 
administration of bromelain. In vitro and animal data 
suggest that bromelain can also promote fibrinolysis. 
Caution and monitoring is therefore needed when 
prescribing concomitant medicinal products that affect 
coagulation.”  
  Targeted Follow up questionnaire for drug interactions 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling): 
  Section 4.5 (interaction with other medicinal products): 
“Bromelain may enhance the actions of fluorouracil and 
vincristine”. 
  Targeted Follow up questionnaire for drug interactions 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling): 
  Section 4.5 (Interaction with other medicinal products): 
“Bromelain may enhance the hypotensive effect of ACE 
inhibitors, causing larger decreases in blood pressure than 
expected”. 
  Targeted Follow up questionnaire for drug interactions 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling): 
  Section 4.5 (Interaction with other medicinal products): 
“Bromelain may increase drowsiness caused by some 
medicinal products (e.g. benzodiazepines, barbiturates, 
narcotics and antidepressants)”.  
  Targeted Follow up questionnaire for drug interactions 
  Routine risk minimisation (labelling): Section 4.2 (Posology 
and method of administration): “Experience with NexoBrid 
in elderly patients (>65 years) is limited. Benefit/risk 
assessment should include consideration of the greater 
frequency of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in 
the elderly” 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
  Section 4.2 (Posology and method of administration): “The 
safety and efficacy of NexoBrid in children and 
adolescents younger than 18 years have not yet been 
established. … No recommendation on a posology can be 
made. NexoBrid is not indicated for use in patients 
younger than 18 years”. 
  Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects) 
 
Section 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties): 
“Pharmacokinetic parameters and the extent of absorption 
have not been studied in children.” 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation):  
- 
“There are no data from the use of NexoBrid in 
pregnant women. Animal studies are insufficient to 
properly assess the potential of NexoBrid to interfere 
with embryonal/foetal development.  
Since the safe use of NexoBrid during pregnancy has 
not yet been established, NexoBrid is not 
recommended during pregnancy. 
It is unknown whether bromelain/metabolites are 
- 
- 
 NexoBrid Drug 
interactions with 5-
FU and vincristine 
 NexoBrid Drug 
interactions with 
Antihypertensive 
medication 
 NexoBrid Drug 
interactions with 
Nervous system 
depressants 
Important missing information  
Elderly  
Paediatric  
(< 18 yrs)  
Pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR. 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include:  
1. Study MW2012-01-01  
2. Study MW 2008-09-03 
3. Study 2010-02-03 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR  
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities (routine and 
additional) 
excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding 
should be discontinued for at least 4 days after 
NexoBrid application. 
-  No studies were performed to assess the effects of 
NexoBrid on fertility”. 
Routine risk minimisation (labelling):  
 
Sect
ion 4.4 (Special warnings 
and precautions for use): 
“Bromelain is systemically 
absorbed from burn wound 
areas” 
Section 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties): “The extent of 
systemic absorption from a burn wound, Cmax, Tmax, AUC, and 
t ½ of bromelain from NexoBrid have been investigated in 16 
burn patients with partial-thickness (mid- and deep-dermal) 
thermal burns. … These results for C max and AUC last indicate 
that systemic absorption may depend both on the applied 
NexoBrid dose (proportional to the covered wound area) and 
other, patient-specific factors.” 
None 
None 
Systemic exposure 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include: 
1. Study MW2012-01-01  
2. Study MW2008-09-03 
3. Study MW 2010-02-03 
Development of Anti-
NexoBrid Antibodies 
Long-term (at least 2 
years) cosmetic and 
functional outcomes 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities will include:  
1. Study MW2012-01-01 
2. Study MW2008-09-03 
3. Study MW2010-02-03 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
including presentation of collated 
data in the corresponding chapter 
of the PSUR 
Additional Pharmacovigilance 
activities for long-term evaluation 
(at least 2 years) of cosmetic and 
functional outcomes will be 
evaluated in two proposed non-
interventional, observational 
phase 3b:   
1. Cosmesis function and Quality 
of Life Assessments in Children 
following treatment with 
NexoBrid Compared to Standard 
of Care Treatment, (study 
MW2014-01-01). 
2. Cosmesis, function and Quality 
of Life Assessments in Adults and 
Children following treatment with 
NexoBrid Compared to Standard 
of Care Treatment, (Study 
MW2010-03-02).  
The below pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
The MAH shall conducts a study on enzymatic debridement in 
burns patients (children and adults): A comparison to standard 
of care (protocol MW2010-03-02), based on a CHMP approved 
Protocol submission not later than 
6 month after granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
 
 
 
Description 
protocol. (Annex II) 
Due date 
Submission for interim study 
report Q1 2015 
Submission of final results 
31/03/2017 
To address within the planned Phase IIIb paediatric study 
The Protocol should be submitted 
(protocol MW 2012-01-01) the lack of data on immunogenicity 
for approval by the CHMP before 
in the MAA dossier. The Applicant will undertake assessment of 
the start of the study. 
immunogenicity as laid out in the CHMP guideline on 
Submission of the final study 
immunogenicity assessment of biotechnology-derived 
report Q4, 2016 
therapeutic proteins (RMP) 
Retrospective survey (protocol MW2013-06-01) drug 
utilisation study for further evaluation of the effectiveness of 
the risk minimisation activities (RMP) 
Review within the PSURs 
Submission of final results June 
2014 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
Prior to launch in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder MAH shall agree the content 
and format of the educational programme with the national competent authority. The Marketing 
Authorisation Holder (MAH) should ensure that, at launch, all Healthcare Professionals in specialist 
burn centres who are expected to use and/or prescribe NexoBrid receive a specific training and are 
provided with an Educational pack.  
The MAH should undertake a controlled distribution of NexoBrid to ensure that the product is not 
available for use at a centre until at least one surgeon at the centre has received formal training in the 
use of NexoBrid.  This is in addition to the educational material which all potential users should receive. 
The educational pack should contain the following: 
 
 
Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflet  
Healthcare Professional information pack 
The Healthcare Professional information pack should be a step by step treatment guide that includes 
information on the following key elements: 
Before prescribing NexoBrid 
 
 
 
The limitation of the total area than can be treated to 15% TBSA  
The risk of allergic reaction and of cross reactivity and the contraindication in patients allergic 
to pineapple and papain or to previous application of the product 
The risk of increased mortality in patients with cardiopulmonary diseases 
Before applying NexoBrid 
 
 
The need for pain management  
The need for wound cleansing and preparation before treatment with  
o 
o 
Application of a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution for two hours before 
Nexobrid application 
Protection of surrounding skin areas  
 
The method of preparation of NexoBrid and of its application to wound area 
After applying NexoBrid  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The removal of NexoBrid and of dissolved eschar 
The wound assessment and the warning against any repeat treatment 
The wound management after NexoBrid treatment with 
o 
o 
Application of a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution for two hours  
Performance of grafting procedures as soon as possible after debridement 
 
The fact that Nexobrid may cause an allergic reaction, an increased tendency to bleed and severe 
local irritation and that patients should be monitored for signs or symptoms of these 
 
The fact that patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of wound and systemic 
infections 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The  efficacy  of  NexoBrid  in  debriding  deep  partial  thickness  (DPT),  mixed  and  full  thickness  (FT) 
wounds  has  been  robustly  demonstrated.  Statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  reductions  in 
the number of DPT wounds that proceeded to surgical excision and in areas of wounds excised at first 
surgery  and  in  any  surgery  were  seen  for  NexoBrid  debrided  wounds.  The  subgroup  data  show  that 
efficacy  in  debriding  wounds  occurs  across  a  number  of  key  subgroups,  full  thickness  and  mixed 
wounds and in wounds at different sites.  This reflects the target indication for Nexobrid and is a direct 
measure of the pharmacological action.  
A graft take success rate of > 90% in wounds autografted within 2 days of debridement was recorded 
in  the  main  clinical  studies  for  the  NexoBrid  patients  which  was  comparable  to  the  rate  in  the  SOC 
group.  Data  on  graft  take  in  early  autografted  wounds  were  accepted  by  the  CHMP  as  a  surrogate 
measure  of  quality  of  debridement  as  supportive  pre-  and  post-debridement  histological  data  from 
animal studies were additionally provided.   
The speed of debridement is also considered a beneficial effect. On average NexoBrid debridement was 
started within 0.77 days and was completed by 0.8 days after ICF date compared to 1.26 days and 6.7 
days  respectively  for  SOC.  The  much  earlier  achievement  of  complete  debridement  allows  the  burn 
surgeon  an  unobscured  assessment  of  the  burn  wound  depth  (and  extent)  soon  after  the  injury  and 
allows the burn surgeon the choice between different post debridement strategies.  
Other  factors  important  for  patient  management  influence  outcome  in  terms  of  autografting,  time  to 
wound  closure  and  other  longer-term  outcomes.    Only  small  differences  were  seen  in  the  number  of 
non-mITT  (FT  &  mixed)  wounds  receiving  autografts,  as  these  wounds  usually  require  autografting. 
These wounds therefore had been excluded from the primary analysis. It has been demonstrated that 
NexoBrid reduces grafting vs. SOC in DPT wounds (18% of wounds NexoBrid arm vs. 34% SOC). There 
 
 
were  significant  differences  (although  less  marked)  in  the  number  of  DPT  wounds  that  received 
autografts  and  in  the  mean  area  of  wounds  autografted.  As  with  efficacy  of  debridement,  differences 
favouring NexoBrid were also seen across subgroups.  
Regarding  the  treatment  of  hand  wounds,  a  positive  trend  was  noted  regarding  the  exploratory 
endpoint  of  compartment  pressure  in  circumferential  burns  of  the  extremities  and  of  note  no 
escharotomy was required for NexoBrid treated hands compared to 9.7% (4 of 41 hands) in the SOC 
cohort.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Despite an overall significant superior result in the NexoBrid treatment arm on autografting (driven by 
results  in  DPT  wounds),  the  numerical  difference  between  groups  was  small.  Contradictory  findings 
were  observed  in  mixed  wounds,  a  subgroup  which  was  excluded  from  the  primary  analysis.  As  this 
analysis was based on a non-randomised comparison and baseline imbalances were present, together 
with  the  fact,  that  post  debridement  wound  care  was  not  standardised  and  determined  by  individual 
subjective  open-label  decisions,  overall  the  results  on  autografting  are  not  considered  to  be  of  the 
same  direct  relevance  to  the  efficacy  of  as  the  primary  endpoint  results.  The  CHMP  considers  it 
appropriate to rely primarily on the measures of debridement to quantify the benefit of Nexobrid in the 
claimed indication. The lesser clinical relevance of the autografting data is supported by the statement 
of  the  ad  hoc  expert  group  that  reduction  in  autografting  is  not  the  primary  goal  in  burn  surgery. 
Besides appropriate risk minimisation measures were established to ensure prompt autografting of all 
FT  wounds  and  wound  areas  directly  after  debridement  with  NexoBrid  (as  is  standard  of  care  in 
European burn centers). 
Cosmetic  and  functional  outcome  is  important  and  data  at  a  2  year  follow  up  has  been  provided. 
Although  no  difference  in  the  long  term  cosmetic  outcome  was  observed  between  NexoBrid  and  SOC 
treated  wounds  and  the  submitted  SF-36  data  suggest  overall  equal  outcome  on  QoL  and  function in 
the two treatment arms, the available data is not considered confirmatory. A number of uncertainties 
exist  regarding  the  influence  of  baseline  imbalances  on  the  overall  MVSS  data  presented  and  the 
applicability  of  the  presented  MVSS  data  on  approximately  50%  of  the  patients  initially  enrolled  in 
MW2004-11-02  to  the  entire  cohort  randomised  in  the  pivotal  study.  The  ad-hoc  expert  group 
supported the assumption that a negative impact of NexoBrid treatment on the outcome of the overall 
burn treatment is not expected. However the SF-36 measure was not, by itself, considered a suitably 
valid  measure  of  burn-related  or  overall  function.  It  is  therefore  considered  that  non-inferiority  in 
quality  of  life  and  burn  related  and  overall  function  require  further  data  generation.  The  CHMP 
requested  this  to  be  addressed  through  a  dedicaeted  study  to  be  conducted  post-auuthorisation,  as 
indicated in the RMP and also made an obligation to the licence.  
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  reactions  of  the  use  of  NexoBrid  are  local  pain  and  transient 
pyrexia/hyperthermia.  The  data  from  the  clinical  development  showed  that  through  precautionary 
measures including preventive analgesia as routinely practiced for extensive dressing changes in burn 
patients  as  well  as  antibacterial  soaking  of  the  treatment  area  before  and  after  NexoBrid  application, 
the frequency of pain and pyrexia/hyperthermia was reduced. These recommendations are included in 
the SmPC. 
 
NexoBrid  treatment  was  not  found  to  be  associated  with  a  significantly  increased  risk  of  serious  or 
severe  adverse  events  compared  to  standard  of  care.  Serious  infections  occurred  with  similar 
frequency in the SOC and NexoBrid cohorts and the incidence was low.  
NexoBrid  debridement  was  associated  with  a  slightly  higher  rate  of  wound  complications,  general 
infections,  wound  infections  /wound  cultures  and  extent  in  antibiotic-use.  The  imbalances  were  only 
small and wound infections were only mild to moderate in severity. They responded well to treatment. 
No  detrimental  effect  on  long  term  outcome  has  been  detected  for  the  Nexobrid  treated  patients 
(regarding  imbalance  in  mortality  see  below).  The  SmPC  adequately  addresses  this  point  through 
guidance.  
Uncertainties in the knowledge of the unfavourable effects 
In general uncertainties surrounding the risks associated with NexoBrid use resulted from low rates of 
adverse  events  of  interest,  small  differences  between  NexoBrid  and  SOC  cohorts  and  limited  size  of 
submitted studies and subgroups in various analyses.  
The  initial  time  to  complete  wound  closure  (TTCWC)  analyses  confirmed  that  NexoBrid  debridement 
was  associated  with  an  overall  increased  TTCWC.  However,  presented  subgroup  analyses  of 
comparative TTCWC data for autografted wounds and non-autografted wounds in various wound depth 
subgroups and similar comparative data for time to placement of autografts make it clear that in the 
pivotal  study  the  large  delays  in  TTCWC  only  occurred  in  two  subgroups  i.e.  late  autografted  DPT 
wounds  and  late  autografted  mixed  wounds.  The  reason  for  this  was  mainly  a  delay  in  placing  the 
autografts on the wounds (time to autograft from end of debridement in DPT wounds 15.0 vs. 1.7 days 
Nexobrid vs. SOC) which impacted TTCWC. The CHMP accepts that the delay in autografting NexoBrid 
debrided wounds was the principal cause of the increase in TTCWC experienced by such wounds which 
means that it is not considered a direct effect of NexoBrid treatment itself. In clinical practice, TTCWC 
can effectively be reduced by ensuring that NexoBrid debrided wounds with any full-thickness areas of 
burn are autografted early (i.e. within a few days of debridement) as advised in the SmPC and through 
risk  management  activities  including  educational  material.  In  addition,  to  further  address  the 
remaining  uncertainty  the  CHMP  requested  data  generation  thorugh  a  clinical  study  to  confirm  the 
absence  of  a  direct  negative  impact  of  Nexobrid  on  TTCWC  and  possibly  associated  adverse  events. 
This study is an obligation to the marketing authorisation. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of NexoBrid has been investigated to a limited extent only. Based on the 
available  data  it  is  currently  not  known  whether  doses  applied  to  large,  deep  wounds  will  result  in 
plasma  concentrations  of  bromelain  or  other  proteolytic  enzymes  of  Nexobrid  that  approximate  or 
exceed  plasma  concentrations  observed  in  a  non-clinical  study  in  minipigs  that  were  later  found  to 
have  visceral  haemorrhages.    Importantly  no  clinical  sign  of  haemorrhage  or  coagulopathy  in  timely 
relation to the NexoBrid treatment has been observed so far. Nevertheless, the CHMP requested that 
the  use  of  NexoBrid  is  restricted  to  a  single  application  and  to  a  maximum  of  15%  TBSA.  The  SmPC 
contains  appropriate  guidance  and  the  educational  programme  will  address  this  concern.  Further 
investigation  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  NexoBrid  in  the  indicated  population  and  investigation  of 
clotting parameters will be performed in the clinical post authorisation study which is an obligation to 
the marketing authorisation.  
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
NexoBrid  significantly  reduces  the  need  for  excisional  surgery  in  FT,  mixed  and  DPT  wounds,  and 
substantially reduces the time to successful eschar removal. It is confirmed to be an effective tool for 
 
debridement with regard to extent and quality of debridement. Non-clinical data combined with a good 
graft  take  rate  (>90%)  are  surrogates  for  a  sufficiently  good  quality  of  debridement  with  NexoBrid. 
Early eschar removal also permits unobscured direct visualisation of the wound bed at an earlier stage 
and an earlier decision-making on subsequent wound care strategy. CHMP, in line with the SAG, sees 
the potential benefit to having another (non-surgical) technique for removal of eschar to complement 
the available surgical techniques. 
Based  on  the  available  data  the  CHMP  is  sufficiently  reassured  about  the  absence  of  relevant 
detrimental  effects  in  burn  wound  management  through  NexoBrid.  Additional  data  to  address 
uncertainties on long-term outcome will be generated. 
The  safety  profile  is  considered  acceptable,  since  overall,  NexoBrid  treatment  was  not  found  to  be 
associated with a significantly increased risk of serious or severe adverse events compared to standard 
of  care.  Serious  infections  occurred  with  similar  frequency  in  the  SOC  and  NexoBrid  cohorts  and  the 
incidence was low. Adequate precautionary measures have been employed to reduce the frequence of 
the most commonly observed adverse reactions. 
The maximum potential treatable wound surface area has been restricted to 15% TBSA and the use is 
limited  to  a  single  application.  Experts  in  the  field  state  that  this  does  not  critically  diminuish  the 
usefulness  as  the  majority  of  burn  wounds  is  smaller  than  15%TBSA.  Further  data  will  be  generated 
through a requested phase IIIb study identified as obligation to the marketing authorisation.  
Benefit-risk balance 
The benefit-risk of Nexobrid for the removal of eschar in adults with deep partial, mixed and full 
thickness burns is positive.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The  efficacy  of  NexoBrid  in  debriding  DPT,  mixed  and  FT  wounds  in  good  quality,  suitable  for 
autografting  and  in  a  relatively  shorter  time  period  than  standard  of  care  has  been  demonstrated. 
There is evidence that NexoBrid reduces the extent of grafting vs. SOC particularly in DPT wounds.  
Within the dossier a number of adverse outcomes were seen to occur more frequently in the NexoBrid 
arm than the SOC arm. These are not considered direct effects of NexoBrid but rather to be associated 
with  an  altered  treatment  strategy  with  delayed  wound  closure  and  later  placement  of  autografts  on 
NexoBrid  debrided  wounds  or  unrelated  chance  findings.  Therefore  the  CHMP  concludes  in  an 
acceptable  safety  profile  of  Nexobrid  considering  the  severity  of  the  patients’  clinical  condition.  The 
Applicant  has  proposed  a  sound  package  of  risk  minimisation  measures,  which  include  efforts  to 
educate  specialists  in  the  importance  of  early  autografting  of  NexoBrid-debrided  FT  and  deep  burn 
areas which are considered to sufficiently address these concerns.  
The CHMP has been reassured that some adverse trends observed in the clinical data are not a direct 
consequence of treatment with NexoBrid, but arise due to chance, or are related to differences in post-
debridement wound care in the clinical trial. This highlighted however the importance of an adequate 
training.  Furthermore,  it  is  important  that  NexoBrid  should  only  be  applied  by  trained  healthcare 
professionals in specialist burn centres. This is adequately addressed by the SmPC as well as the risk 
minimisation activities to ensure proper management in clinical practice. 
Given  the  clear  efficacy  of  Nexobrid  for  eschar  removal,  the  demonstrated  clinical  benefit  of  the 
product  and  the  fact  that  safety  concerns  can  be  adequately  managed  in  clinical  practice,  the 
demonstrated benefit of NexoBrid outweighs the uncertainties about possible risks.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance of  NexoBrid indicated  for removal  of  eschar  in  adults  with  deep 
partial-  and  full-thickness  thermal  burns  is  favourable  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed in Version 1.12 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Prior to launch in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder MAH shall agree the content 
and  format  of  the  educational  programme  with  the  national  competent  authority.  The  Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  should  ensure  that,  at  launch,  all  Healthcare  Professionals  in  specialist 
burn  centres  who  are  expected  to  use  and/or  prescribe  NexoBrid receive  a  specific  training  and  are 
provided with an Educational pack.  
The educational pack should contain the following: 
  Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflet  
  Educational material for Healthcare Professionals 
The Physician information pack should be a step by step treatment guide that includes information on 
the following key elements: 
Before prescribing NexoBrid 
 
The limitation of the total area that can be treated to 15% TBSA  
  
 
 
The risk of allergic reaction and of cross reactivity and the contraindication in patients 
allergic to pineapple and papain or to previous application of the product 
 
The risk of increased mortality in patients with cardiopulmonary diseases 
Before applying NexoBrid 
 
 
The need for pain management  
The need for wound cleansing and preparation before treatment with  
o  Application of a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution for two hours before 
Nexobrid application 
o  Protection of surrounding skin areas  
 
The method of preparation of NexoBrid and of its application to wound area 
After applying NexoBrid  
 
 
 
The removal of NexoBrid and of dissolved eschar 
The wound assessment and the warning against any repeat treatment 
The wound management after NexoBrid treatment with 
o  Application of a dressing soaked with an antibacterial solution for two hours  
o  Performance of grafting procedures as soon as possible after debridement 
 
The fact that Nexobrid may cause an allergic reaction, an increased tendency to bleed and 
severe local irritation and that patients should be monitored for signs or symptoms of these 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
The MAH shall conducts a study on enzymatic debridement in burns patients 
(children and adults): A comparison to standard of care (protocol MW2010-03-02), 
based on a CHMP approved protocol. 
Due date 
Submission of 
final results  
31/03/2017 
Divergent position to the majority recommendation is appended to this report. 
New Active Substance Status 
The applicant requested the active substance concentrate of proteolitic enzymes enriched in bromelain 
contained in the above medicinal product to be considered as a new active substance in itself.  
Appendix – divergent position 
The  undersigned  members  of  CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the  CHMP’s  opinion  recommending  the 
Marketing Authorisation for NexoBrid.  
The reasons for divergent opinion were as follows: 
 
 
  
 
The  limited  benefits  are  not  considered  to  outweigh  the  risk  of  adverse  effects  and  the  considerable 
uncertainties. 
Benefits: 
the  claimed  beneficial  effects  of  Nexobrid  treatment  are  the  selective  removal  of  eschar  with  better 
preservation  of  viable  tissue  and  better  chances  for  spontaneous  re-epithelisation  than  in  surgical 
debridement.  Therefore, fewer autografts are expected to be necessary. It is expected that the shift of 
the treatment strategy from early covering with autografts to spontaneous healing without or with less 
grafting will cause some delay, i.e. increase the time to complete wound closure.  
It  has  been  shown  that  effective  debridement  and  less  wound  excision  is  achieved  by  Nexobrid 
treatment for full thickness (FT), deep partial thickness (DPT) and mixed burn wounds.  
For the clinically relevant parameters decrease in autografting and time to complete wound closure the 
benefical  effect  of  the  Nexobrid  treatment  is  less  clear.  The  beneficial  effect  on  number  and  size  of 
autografts  was  driven  by  the  subgroup  of  DPT  wounds  only,  whereas  there  was  no  difference  in  FT 
wounds  and  an  increased  in  autografts  in  mixed  wounds.  A  possible  explanation  for  the  increase  in 
grafting in the mixed wound group may be an imbalance in the study groups, see uncertainties below. 
Graft  failure  and  multiple  grafting  procedures  were  few.  Multiple  grafting  was  more  frequent  for 
Nexobrid  treatment  in  patients  with  DPT  and  mixed  wounds,  there  was  no  difference  in  patients  with 
FT wounds. In patients with FT wounds, graft failure occurred in 8.9% in the Nexobrid treatment group 
and in 2.5% in SOC group. 
In  patients  with  DPT  or  mixed  wounds  who  received  autografts  there  was  a  clearly  longer  time  to 
complete wound closure, as expected (see above). In patients with DPT or mixed wounds who did not 
received autografts there was no difference in time to complete wound closure. On the one hand, this 
indicates  that  Nexobrid  has  no  detrimental  effect  on  the  wound,  on  the  other  hand  the  presumed 
better preservation of viable tissue with Nexobrid than with SOC resp. surgical debridement does not 
translate into a more rapid healing.   
Differentiating  the  burn  wounds  the  effects  of  Nexobrid  treatment  versus  SOC  on  autografting  and 
wound healing are: 
1.  For  FT  wounds,  there  was  no  difference  in  autografting  and  time  to  complete  wound  closure. 
Graft failures were few but more frequent in the Nexobrid group.  
2.  For  DPT  wounds  that  were  autografted,  there  were  overall  fewer  autografts,  more  multiple 
grafting  procedures  (possibly  reflecting  a  treatment  strategy  with  more  emphasis  on 
spontaneous  re-epithelisation,  see  uncertainties  below)  and  a  significantly  longer  time  to 
complete wound closure for Nexobrid-treated patients.    
3.  For  DPT  wounds  that  were  not  autografted,  there  was  no  difference  between  Nexobrid  and 
SOC.    
4.  For  mixed  wounds  that  were  autografted,  there  were  overall  more  autografts,  more  multiple 
grafting  procedures  and  a  significantly  longer  time  to  complete  wound  closure  for  Nexobrid-
treated  patients  (a  possible  explanation  may  be  an  imbalance  in  the  study  groups,  see 
uncertainties below).    
5.  For  mixed  wounds  that  were  not  autografted,  there  was  no  difference  between  Nexobrid  and 
SOC. 
There  are  considerable  uncertainties  of  regarding  the  beneficial  effects:  the  clinical  relevance  of  less 
wound excision per se seems uncertain, when less wound excision that is not translated in less grafting 
or  more  rapid  healing.  Avoiding  the  surgical  procedure  must  be  set  against  the  Nexobrid  treatment, 
which takes longer and requires pronounced anaesthesia.  
Any  quantification  of  differences  in  benefits  between  the  Nexobrid  arm  and  the  SOC  arm  has 
considerable uncertainty. The different treatment strategies, early covering with autografts in the SOC 
arm versus more emphasis on to spontaneous re-epithelisation and temporary graft placement in the 
Nexobrid arm in the (unavoidably) unblinded study design are obvious confounders. Depending on the 
endpoint, this may favour Nexobrid (less autografts) or SOC (earlier wound closure). Imbalances in the 
study population add further uncertainty.   
As the overall reduction in autografts (number of procedures and size) in the pivotal study was driven 
by  the  effect  on  DPT  wounds  it  is  important  that  there  was  an  imbalance  in  the  proportion  of  DPT 
wounds  between  study  arms  (61.9  vs.  44.9  Nex  vs.  SOC),  favouring  a  better  outcome  for  NexoBrid.  
On  the  other  hand,  the  inferior  outcome  of  Nexobrid  treatment  versus  SOC  in  the  mixed  wounds  is 
probably at least in part due to an imbalance with more severe mixed wounds in the Nexobrid arm.    
Risks: 
There  is  no  clear  clinical  evidence  for  unacceptable  risks  of  Nexobrid.  The  combination  of  several 
findings, however, may indicate the possibility of harmful effects. 
For  different  bromelain  products  anti-inflammatory,  antithrombotic  and  anticoagulant  effects  have 
been  explored. Pharmakokinetic studies demonstrated highly variable serum levels of bromelain after 
administration  to  burn  wounds.  The  highest  concentration  observed  was  Cmax  13.5 μg/ml.  This  is 
approx.  a  third  of  the  concentrations  observed  in  non-clinical  studies  with  intravenous  administration 
at NOEL.  
There  have  been  numerical  imbalances  favouring  SOC  versus  Nexobrid  for  several  adverse  effects 
including  mortality,  blood  transfusions,  wound  related  complications  (including  graft  failure),  general 
infections,  pain,  pyrexia,  antibiotic  use,  hospital  discharge  and  total  re-admissions  Most  concerns 
remain  for  mortality  and  blood  transfusions:  in  the  development  program,  there  were  five  deaths  of 
patients  treated  with  Nexobrid  for  medical  reasons  versus  no  death  for  medical  reasons  in  the  SOC 
patients  (one  SOC  patients  was  murdered).  There  were  more  and  larger  blood  transfusions  in  the 
Nexobrid  group  (mean  whole  blood  transfused  2245 ml  vs.  714.7 ml).  For  neither  of  these  adverse 
effects  a  clear  link  to  Nexobrid  treatment  could  be  established.  The  explanations  provided  during  the 
procedure are not completely reassuring. Examples: For mortality it has been argued that these were 
patients with pre-existing co-morbidities that should not have been included in the study. However, if 
the  exclusion  criteria  were  not  (always)  followed  in  the  Nexobrid  arm  in  the  clinical  trials,  it  must  be 
assumed that similar patients have been included in the SOC group and may be treated post-approval 
in  clinical  practice.  For  blood  transfusions,  it  has  been  agued  that  the  increase  in  blood  transfusions 
were caused by outliers and linked to surgical procedures which supposedly make an effect of Nexobrid 
implausible. However, high variability in pharmacokinetics with individual C
estimates ranging from 
951  to  13500  ng/ml  and  apparent  mean  terminal  half-life  of  from  8.8  to  19.9 h  are  compatible  with 
max 
manifestation of effects only in (very) few patients under special circumstances (e.g. surgery).  
The uncertainty is further increased as burn wounds in the Nexobrid arm of the one pivotal study were 
less  severe  (more  DPT  wounds,  less  full  thickness  and  mixed  wounds)  than  the  burn  wounds  in  the 
SOC arm (less DPT wounds, more full thickness and mixed wounds).  
Conclusion:  
The benefit-risk for this produce is negative and a marketing authorisation should not be granted. 
 
 
London, 20 September 2012 
Harald Enzmann 
Pierre Demolis 
Jens Heisterberg 
Barbara van Zwieten Boot 
Romaldas Maciulaitis 
Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
David Lyons 
Catherine Moraiti 
Hubert Leufkens 
Jan Mueller Berghaus 
Sol Ruiz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
