25 February 2021  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
EMADOC-1700519818-646738 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
of an orphan medicinal product submitted for marketing authorisation 
Nexpovio (selinexor) 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma 
EU/3/14/1355 
Sponsor: Karyopharm Europe GmbH     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................ 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation ............................................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation .............................................................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 7 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Other name(s) 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
Initial orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Selinexor 
- 
Selinexor 
Nexpovio 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma  
Karyopharm Europe GmbH   
Franziska-Bilek-Weg 9 
Schwanthalerhoehe-Laim 
80339 Munich 
Germany  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Post-designation procedural history 
Karyopharm Europe GmbH - Germany 
09/10/2014 
19/11/2014 
EU/3/14/1355 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Clinipace GmbH to Karyopharm Europe 
GmbH – EC decision of 12 August 2015 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Blanca Garcia-Ochoa/ Sinan B. Sarac 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Karyopharm Europe GmbH   
9 January 2019 
25 January 2019 
EMA/H/C/005127 
Nexpovio 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of patients with relapsed refractory 
multiple myeloma 
Further information on Nexpovio can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
AR/nexpovio 
CHMP opinion 
26 January 2021 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Frauke Naumann-Winter / Karri Penttila 
Sponsor’s report submission 
25 September 2020 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
19-21 January 2021 
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
16 February 2021 
18 February 2021 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2014 was based on the 
following grounds: 
After examination of the application by COMP, the COMP considered that the sponsor had established 
the following:  
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing selinexor was justified 
based on preclinical data and preliminary clinical data showing anti-cancer activity in patients 
affected by the condition;  
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcaemia, 
renal insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of up to 
approximately 45 months for newly diagnosed patients;  
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 1.8 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made.  
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 for orphan medicinal 
products were fulfilled.  
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing selinexor may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The 
sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data showing a favourable response in heavily pretreated 
patients with progressive disease who are refractory or intolerant to alternative treatment options. The 
Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage for patients affected by the 
condition.  
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 for orphan medicinal 
products was fulfilled. The COMP concluded that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and 
(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products were fulfilled. The COMP therefore 
recommended the designation of this medicinal product, containing selinexor as an orphan medicinal 
product for the orphan indication: treatment of plasma cell myeloma. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy, characterized by an uncontrolled proliferation of 
one or few clones of differentiated plasma cells and increased production of monoclonal 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunoglobulins. It is also known as plasma cell myeloma (PCM). The condition is still recognised and 
classified in the same way it was at the time of initial OD. 
The approved therapeutic indication “NEXPOVIO is indicated in combination with dexamethasone for 
the treatment of  multiple myeloma in adult patients who have received at least four prior therapies 
and whose disease is refractory to at least two proteasome inhibitors, two immunomodulatory agents, 
and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last 
therapy” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “treatment of plasma cell myeloma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP (see 
EPAR). 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Multiple myeloma is a fatal malignant haematologic neoplasia that is characterized by a proliferation of 
plasma cells and immunoglobulins. This proliferation leads to end-organ damage, including bone 
marrow suppression with a reduction of functioning immune cells, erythrocytes, and thrombocytes. 
Patients with MM also commonly have renal impairment, hypercalcemia, lytic bony lesions, and are 
susceptible to infections.  
Although the number of applicable treatment lines has improved, increasing the total time of survival 
to 5-6 years, none of these treatments are curative; all patients ultimately relapse and become 
refractory to available therapies and eventually succumb to the disease. 
Therefore, the condition is still considered chronically debilitating and life threatening.  
Number of people affected or at risk 
Based on literature sources, GLOBOCAN and IARC databases, as well as assuming 5 years disease 
duration, the sponsor proposed the 5-year partial prevalence of the condition to be 1.6 in 10,000. 
The sponsor does not attempt to estimate the complete prevalence of the condition, which would 
require longer assumed disease duration. In addition, there are more incidence sources that the 
sponsor failed to consult. The sponsor should provide a more detailed analysis of available sources and 
provide an estimate of complete prevalence of the condition. 
The estimate of 1.6 in 10,000 is far below the recently accepted estimate of prevalence of MM at 4 in 
10,000. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Since the initial application for orphan drug status, several medicines for MM have been added to the 
armamentarium of the MM-treatment options. These include carfilzomib, ixazomib, panobinostat, 
daratumumab, elotuzomab and belantamab mafodotin. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
Belantamab mafodotin (Blenrep), a monoclonal antibody, is the most recent product to receive 
conditional approval (2020). Belantamab mafodotin is indicated as monotherapy for patients with 
RRMM who have received at least 4 previous therapies and whose disease did not respond to 
treatment with at least 1 PI, 1 ImiD, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody. The therapeutic indication 
of Belantamab mafodotin overlaps with the one of selinexor. Therefore, significant benefit over 
Belantamab mafodotin has to be demonstrated.  
In describing treatment algorithm of MM, the sponsor referred to the current ESMO Clinical practice 
guideline (Moreau 2017). In view of the recently approved medicines, this guideline is already slightly 
outdated.  
Significant benefit 
There is currently only one authorized treatment (belantamab mafodotin, Blenrep) (under conditional 
marketing authorization) in the EU for patients with triple-class refractory MM. Blenrep is indicated as 
monotherapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients, who have received at least four 
prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one 
immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated 
disease progression on the last therapy. 
All patients in the pivotal STORM Part 2 study had penta-exposed, triple-class refractory MM. The 
baseline and disease characteristics of this study population is representative of real-world patients 
with heavily pre-treated MM (Usmani 2016, Khozin 2017, Pick 2018). All patients entered the study 
with progressing disease refractory to the most recent therapy.  
In STORM study, selinexor in combination with dexamethasone (Sd) demonstrated an ORR of 26.2% 
with a median duration of response of 4.4 months. Considering that 79% of patients had stabilization 
of disease (SD or better), it is claimed that Sd conferred a relevant benefit to a significant majority of 
the patients treated in the study. These responses (and their durations) were independently assessed 
by an IRC and then further confirmed by review of two of the authors of the IMWG response criteria. 
This observed ORR is consistent with the ORR of bortezomib, carfilzomib, pomalidomide, and 
daratumumab of 22.9% to 29.2% observed in single-arm, phase 2 studies. However, the results of 
this study need to be treated with caution in view of the single arm study design resulting in a lack of 
comparative control arm.  
The rate of serious AEs and AEs leading to death in STORM Part 2 were similar to those observed with 
other small molecule drugs that have been used to treat patients with RRMM and have been approved 
in patients with less heavily pre-treated MM. 
The sponsor dismissed the CHMP assessment of the clinical effect of belantamab mafodotin based on 
the fact that the study used to support the conditional marketing authorisation was a single arm study. 
Based on the information available in the Blenrep EPAR 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/assessment-report/blenrep-epar-public-assessment-
report_en.pdf ) the following was established: 
The ORR of Blenrep per IRC based on IMWG criteria was 32% (97.5%CI: 21.7, 43.6) in the 2.5 mg/kg 
dose cohort (13 months follow up). There was a further deepening of response, with 58% of 
responders achieving VGPR or better, including 2 sCRs and 5 CRs.  
• 
• 
The mDOR was 11 months.  
The point estimate of median PFS for 2.5 mg/kg and 3.4 mg/kg was 2.8 months versus 3.9 months 
with the Hazard ratio (HR) estimate of 3.4 mg/kg versus 2.5 mg/kg being 0.92.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The mOS was 13.7 months in the 2.5 mg/kg cohort.  
While it is difficult to quantify the effects observed in the context of a single arm study, the effects 
were considered to be clinically meaningful. In addition, in the Phase 2 study supporting the CMA of 
belantamab mafodotin, 50% of patients were beyond the 6th line of treatment and all were triple-class 
refractory (similar to STORM study). The populations were therefore comparable with respect to their 
refractoriness. The numerical comparison of ORR in the STORM study of selinexor (22%) and that of 
belantamab mafodotin (32%) puts the comparability of the responses observed into question. In 
addition, the same concern applies to the harder endpoints, for which selinexor seems to be 
numerically inferior. The median progression-free survival (PFS) in STORM study was 3.7 months (95% 
CI: 2.8, 4.7) and median overall survival (OS) was 8.4 months. 
The major contribution to patient care of selinexor (administered orally) over belantamab mafodotin 
(administered IV) can only be established if the efficacy of both products in the same clinical setting is 
comparable. In addition, some quantitation of the improvement of the quality of life of patients would 
have to be provided to further discuss the argument of major contribution to patient care. The 
assumption of significant benefit is therefore currently not supported. 
The company should further justify the claim of comparable/improved efficacy and major contribution 
to patient care in comparison to belantamab mafodotin.  
4.  COMP list of issues 
• 
Prevalence 
The sponsor presented an estimation of prevalence based on a small number of member states as 
sources of epidemiological data. The duration of the condition was assumed to be 5 years but it seems 
the median survival of patients has improved beyond this estimate in recent years. In addition, more 
sources of incidence should be consulted (ECIS), and in view of the associated uncertainties the 
sponsor should provide sensitivity analyses of the proposed estimate of the prevalence of the 
condition.  
•  Significant benefit 
The sponsor provided a discussion of the currently used products in late lines of treatment of multiple 
myeloma. However, the limitations of the indirect comparison to belantamab mafodotin, were not 
sufficiently discussed. The sponsor is asked to provide a more complete discussion of the specific 
advantages of selinexor in the proposed therapeutic indication.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000043722 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
