EMA/429680/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005501 
Nexviadyme (avalglucosidase alfa) 
An overview of Nexviadyme and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nexviadyme and what is it used for? 
Nexviadyme is an enzyme replacement therapy used to treat patients with Pompe disease, a rare 
inherited disorder caused by the lack of an enzyme called alpha-glucosidase. Patients with Pompe 
disease have a build-up of glycogen (complex sugars) in body tissues, including the heart, lung and 
skeletal muscles, causing enlarged heart, breathing difficulties and muscle weakness.  
Nexviadyme contains the active substance avalglucosidase alfa. 
Pompe disease is rare, and Nexviadyme was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 26 March 2014. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3141251. 
How is Nexviadyme used? 
Nexviadyme treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience managing patients with 
Pompe disease or other inherited diseases of the same type.  
Nexviadyme is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein once every two weeks, and the dose depends on 
the patient’s body weight. A doctor may decide to increase the dose for patients with infantile-onset 
Pompe disease (Pompe disease that appears at an early age) who do not improve with the regular 
dose. Patients who have no major side effects with the first few infusions may be able to have their 
infusions given at home. 
For more information about using Nexviadyme, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nexviadyme work? 
The active substance in Nexviadyme, avalglucosidase alfa, is a version of the enzyme alpha-
glucosidase, which is lacking in people with Pompe disease. Alpha-glucosidase breaks down glycogen 
into glucose that can be used for energy by the body’s cells. If the enzyme is not present, glycogen 
builds up in certain tissues, including the heart and diaphragm (the main breathing muscle under the 
lungs), causing damage to them. By replacing the missing enzyme, avalglucosidase alfa helps break 
down glycogen and stop it from building up and causing the symptoms of the condition. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Nexviadyme have been shown in studies? 
One main study involving 100 patients between 16 and 78 years of age with Pompe disease showed 
that Nexviadyme was at least as effective in improving lung function as another replacement therapy 
for Pompe disease (alglucosidase alfa). The patients’ lung function was measured as the percentage 
change in their forced vital capacity (FVC, the maximum amount of air exhaled forcefully in one 
breath).  
In the study, patients receiving Nexviadyme for 49 weeks increased their lung function by 2.9% 
compared with patients receiving alglucosidase alfa, who increased their lung function by 0.5%.  
What are the risks associated with Nexviadyme? 
The most common side effects with Nexviadyme are hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions and infusion-
associated reactions, which may affect more than 1 in 4 people; severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) 
have been reported in less than 2 in 100 people. Other frequently reported side effects (in up to 1 in 
10 people) are itching, rash, headache, urticaria (itchy rash), tiredness, nausea (feeling sick), and 
chills. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Nexviadyme, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Nexviadyme authorised in the EU? 
A main study showed that Nexviadyme improved the lung function of patients with Pompe disease. The 
most common side effects are allergic and infusion reactions and are comparable to those reported in 
patients treated with similar medicines.  
The European Medicines Agency, therefore, decided that Nexviadyme’s benefits are greater than its 
risks, and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nexviadyme? 
The company that markets Nexviadyme will provide educational material for healthcare professionals 
including guidance on how to monitor patients for risk of infection and how to arrange infusions at 
home. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nexviadyme have also been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nexviadyme are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Nexviadyme are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Nexviadyme 
Further information on Nexviadyme can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nexviadyme.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
Nexviadyme (avalglucosidase alfa)  
EMA/429680/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
