ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nexviadyme 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 100 mg of avalglucosidase alfa. 
After reconstitution, each vial contains a total extractable volume of 10.0 ml at a concentration of 
10 mg of avalglucosidase alfa* per ml.  
*Avalglucosidase alfa is a human acid α-glucosidase produced in Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) 
by recombinant DNA technology, which is subsequently conjugated with approximately 7 
hexamannose structures (each containing two terminal mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) moieties) to 
oxidised sialic acid residues on the molecule, thereby increasing bis-M6P levels. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
White to pale yellow lyophilised powder  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Nexviadyme (avalglucosidase alfa) is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy for the 
treatment of patients with Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase deficiency). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Nexviadyme treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients 
with Pompe disease or other inherited metabolic or neuromuscular diseases. 
Posology 
Patients may be pre-treated with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids to prevent or 
reduce allergic reactions. 
The recommended dose of avalglucosidase alfa is 20 mg/kg of body weight administered once every 
2 weeks. 
Dose modification for IOPD patients 
For IOPD (infantile-onset Pompe disease) patients who experience lack of improvement or insufficient 
response in cardiac, respiratory, and/or motor function while receiving 20 mg/kg, a dose increase to 40 
mg/kg every other week should be considered in the absence of safety concerns (e.g., severe 
hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions, or risk of fluid overload). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients who do not tolerate avalglucosidase alfa at 40 mg/kg every other week (e.g., severe 
hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions, or risk of fluid overload), consider decreasing the dose to 
20 mg/kg every other week. (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No dose adjustment is required in patients >65 years.  
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of avalglucosidase alfa in patients with hepatic impairment have not been 
evaluated and no specific dose regimen can be recommended for these patients.  
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild renal impairment. The safety and efficacy of 
avalglucosidase alfa in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment have not been evaluated and 
no specific dose regimen can be recommended for these patients. (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population (patients 6 months of age and younger) 
The safety and efficacy of avalglucosidase alfa in children 6 months of age and younger have not yet 
been established. There are no data available in patients 6 months of age and younger. 
Method of administration  
Nexviadyme vials are for single use only and the medicinal product should be administered as an 
intravenous infusion.  
The infusion should be administered incrementally as determined by patient response and comfort.  
It is recommended that the infusion begins at an initial rate of 1 mg/kg/hour and is gradually increased 
every 30 minutes if there are no signs of infusion-associated reactions (IARs), in accordance with 
Table 1. Vital signs should be obtained at each step, before increasing the infusion rate.   
Table 1 – Infusion rate schedule 
Infusion rate (mg/kg/hour) 
Recommended Dose 
step 1 
step 2 
20 mg/kg 
40 mg/kg 
4-step process 
5-step processb  
1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
3 
step 3 
5a 
step 4 
7a 
5 
6 
7 
8 
step 5 
NA 
NA 
10b 
Approximate 
duration (h) 
4 to 5 
7 
5 
a For patients with a recommended dose of 20 mg/kg and body weight of 1.25-5 kg a maximum infusion rate of 
4.8 mg/kg/hour can be applied. 
b For IOPD patients who experience lack of improvement a dose increase to 40 mg/kg every other week is 
recommended.  For a body weight of 1.25-5 kg a maximum infusion rate of 9.6 mg/kg/hour can be applied. 
In the event of anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reaction or severe IARs, administration of 
Nexviadyme should be immediately discontinued and appropriate medical treatment should be 
initiated. In the event of mild to moderate hypersensitivity reactions or IARs, the infusion rate may be 
slowed or temporarily stopped and/or appropriate medical treatment initiated (see section 4.4).  
Symptoms may persist despite temporarily stopping the infusion; therefore, the treating physician 
should wait at least 30 minutes for symptoms of the reactions to resolve before deciding to stop the 
infusion for the remainder of the day. If symptoms subside, infusion rate should be resumed for 
30 minutes at half the rate, or less, of the rate at which the reactions occurred, followed by an increase 
in infusion rate by 50% for 15 to 30 minutes. If symptoms do not recur, the infusion rate should be 
increased to the rate at which the reactions occurred and consider continuing to increase the rate in a 
stepwise manner until the maximum rate is achieved.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home infusion 
Infusion of Nexviadyme at home may be considered for patients who are tolerating their infusions 
well and have no history of moderate or severe IARs for a few months. The decision to have a patient 
move to home infusion should be made after evaluation and upon recommendation by the treating 
physician. A patient’s underlying co-morbidities and ability to adhere to the home infusion 
requirements need to be taken into account when evaluating the patient for eligibility to receive home 
infusion. The following criteria should be considered: 
•  The patient must have no ongoing concurrent condition that, in the opinion of the physician, 
may affect patient’s ability to tolerate the infusion. 
•  The patient is considered medically stable. A comprehensive evaluation must be completed 
before the initiation of home infusion. 
•  The patient must have received Nexviadyme infusions supervised by a physician with 
expertise in management of Pompe patients for a few months that could be in a hospital or in 
another appropriate setting of outpatient care. Documentation of a pattern of well-tolerated 
infusions with no IARs, or mild IARs that have been controlled with premedication, is a 
prerequisite for the initiation of home infusion. 
•  The patient must be willing and able to comply with home infusion procedures.  
•  Home infusion infrastructure, resources, and procedures, including training, must be 
established and available to the healthcare professional. The healthcare professional should be 
available at all times during the home infusion and a specified time after infusion, depending 
on patient’s tolerance prior to starting home infusion.  
If the patient experiences adverse reactions during the home infusion, the infusion process should be 
stopped immediately, and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated (see section 4.4). 
Subsequent infusions may need to occur in a hospital or in an appropriate setting of outpatient care 
until no such adverse reaction is present. Dose and infusion rate must not be changed without 
consulting the responsible physician. 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of medicinal product before administration, see section 
6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Life-threatening hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
when re-challenge was unsuccessful. (see sections 4.4 and 4.8)  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) 
Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in Nexviadyme-treated patients 
(see section 4.8).  
Appropriate medical support measures, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation equipment especially 
for patients with cardiac hypertrophy and patients with significantly compromised respiratory 
function, should be readily available when Nexviadyme is administered. 
If severe hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis occur, Nexviadyme should be discontinued immediately, and 
appropriate medical treatment should be initiated. The risks and benefits of re-administering 
Nexviadyme following anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity reaction should be considered. Some 
patients have been re-challenged using slower infusion rates at a dose lower than the recommended 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose. In patients with severe hypersensitivity, desensitization procedure to Nexviadyme may be 
considered. If the decision is made to re-administer the medicinal product, extreme caution should be 
exercised, with appropriate resuscitation measures available. Once a patient tolerates the infusion, the 
dose may be increased to reach the approved dose. 
If mild or moderate hypersensitivity reactions occur, the infusion rate may be slowed or temporarily 
stopped. 
Infusion-associated reactions (IARs) 
In clinical studies, IARs were reported to occur at any time during and/or within a few hours after the 
infusion of Nexviadyme and were more likely with higher infusion rates (see section 4.8). 
Patients with an acute underlying illness at the time of Nexviadyme infusion appear to be at greater 
risk for IARs. Patients with advanced Pompe disease may have compromised cardiac and respiratory 
function, which may predispose them to a higher risk of severe complications from IARs. 
Antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids can be given to prevent or reduce IARs. However, 
IARs may still occur in patients after receiving pre-treatment. 
If severe IARs occur, immediate discontinuation of the administration of Nexviadyme should be 
considered and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated. The benefits and risks of re-
administering Nexviadyme following severe IARs should be considered. Some patients have been re-
challenged using slower infusion rates at a dose lower than the recommended dose. Once a patient 
tolerates the infusion, the dose may be increased to reach the approved dose. If mild or moderate IARs 
occur regardless of pre-treatment, decreasing the infusion rate or temporarily stopping the infusion 
may ameliorate the symptoms (see section 4.8). 
Immunogenicity 
Treatment emergent anti-drug antibodies (ADA) were reported in both treatment naïve (95%) and 
treatment-experienced patients (62%) (see section 4.8). 
IARs and hypersensitivity reactions may occur independent of the development of ADA. The majority 
of IARs and hypersensitivity reactions were mild or moderate and were managed with standard 
clinical practices. In clinical studies, the development of ADA did not impact clinical efficacy (see 
section 4.8). 
ADA testing may be considered if patients do not respond to therapy. Adverse-event-driven 
immunologic testing, including IgG and IgE ADA, may be considered for patients who have risk for 
allergic reaction or previous anaphylactic reaction to alglucosidase alfa. 
Contact your local Sanofi representative or Sanofi EU Medical Services for information on the Sanofi 
Speciality Care testing services.  
Risk of acute cardiorespiratory failure 
Caution should be exercised when administering Nexviadyme to patients susceptible to fluid volume 
overload or patients with acute underlying respiratory illness or compromised cardiac and/or 
respiratory function for whom fluid restriction is indicated. These patients may be at risk of serious 
exacerbation of their cardiac or respiratory status during infusion. Appropriate medical support and 
monitoring measures should be readily available during Nexviadyme infusion, and some patients may 
require prolonged observation times that should be based on the individual needs of the patient. 
Cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death during general anaesthesia for central venous catheter placement 
Caution should be used when administering general anaesthesia for the placement of a central venous 
catheter or for other surgical procedures in patients with IOPD with cardiac hypertrophy. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac arrhythmia, including ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, and bradycardia, 
resulting in cardiac arrest or death, or requiring cardiac resuscitation or defibrillation, have been 
associated with the use of general anaesthesia in IOPD patients with cardiac hypertrophy. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed. Because it is a recombinant human protein, 
avalglucosidase alfa is an unlikely candidate for cytochrome P450 mediated drug-drug interactions. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy  
There are no available data on the use of Nexviadyme in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity. Indirect foetal effects in mice were 
considered related to an anaphylactic response to avalglucosidase alfa (see section 5.3). The potential 
risk for humans is unknown. No conclusions can be drawn regarding whether or not Nexviadyme is 
safe for use during pregnancy. Nexviadyme should be used during pregnancy only if the potential 
benefits to the mother outweigh the potential risks, including those to the foetus.  
Breast-feeding  
There are no available data on the presence of Nexviadyme in human milk or the effects of 
Nexviadyme on milk production or the breast-fed infant. No conclusions can be drawn regarding 
whether or not Nexviadyme is safe for use during breast-feeding. Nexviadyme should be used during 
breast-feeding only if the potential benefits to the mother outweigh the potential risks, including those 
to the breast-fed child (see section 5.3).  
Fertility  
There are no clinical data on the effects of Nexviadyme on human fertility. Animal studies in mice 
showed no impairment of male or female fertility (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Nexviadyme may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Because dizziness, 
hypotension and somnolence have been reported as IARs, this may affect the ability to drive and use 
machines on the day of the infusion (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile  
Serious adverse reactions reported in patients treated with Nexviadyme were respiratory distress and 
chills in 1.4% of patients and in 0.7% of patients each were headache, dyspnoea, hypoxia, tongue 
oedema, nausea, pruritis, urticaria, skin discoloration, chest discomfort, pyrexia, blood pressure 
increased or decreased, body temperature increased, heart rate increased, and oxygen saturation 
decreased. Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 60.6% of patients, anaphylaxis in 2.8%, and 
IARs in 39.4% in patients. A total of 4.9% of patients receiving Nexviadyme in clinical studies 
permanently discontinued treatment; 2.8% of patients each discontinued the treatment because of the 
following events considered to be related to Nexviadyme: respiratory distress, chest discomfort, 
dizziness, cough, nausea, flushing, ocular hyperaemia, urticaria, and erythema.  
The most frequently reported adverse drug reactions (ADRs) (>5%) were pruritus (13.4%), nausea 
(12%), headache (10.6%), rash (10.6%), urticaria (8.5%), chills (7.7%), fatigue (7.7%), and erythema 
(5.6%).  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pooled safety analysis from 4 clinical studies (EFC14028/COMET, ACT14132/mini-COMET, 
TDR12857/NEO, and LTS13769/NEO-EXT) included a total of 142 patients (118 adult and 24 
paediatric patients (1 paediatric patient directly enrolled in the open-label extension period of Study 
1)) treated with Nexviadyme. ADRs reported in patients treated with Nexviadyme in the pooled 
analysis of clinical studies are listed in Table 2. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions per System Organ Class, presented by frequency categories: very common (≥1/10), 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).  
Due to the small patient population, an adverse reaction reported in 2 patients is classified as common. 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2 – Adverse reactions occurring in patients treated with Nexviadyme in a pooled analysis 
of clinical studies (N=142) 
System organ class 
Preferred term 
Frequency 
Infections and infestations  
Immune Disorders  
Nervous system disorders  
Eye Disorders 
Cardiac Disorders 
Vascular Disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Conjunctivitis 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylaxis 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Tremor 
Somnolence 
Burning sensation 
Paraesthesia 
Ocular hyperaemia 
Conjunctival hyperaemia 
Eye pruritus 
Eyelid oedema 
Lacrimation increased 
Tachycardia 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Hypertension 
Flushing 
Hypotension 
Cyanosis 
Hot flush 
Pallor 
Cough  
Dyspnoea  
Respiratory distress 
Throat irritation 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Tachypnoea 
Laryngeal oedema 
Nausea  
Diarrhoea  
Vomiting 
Lip swelling 
Swollen tongue 
Abdominal pain 
Abdominal pain upper 
Dyspepsia  
Hypoaesthesia oral 
Paraesthesia oral 
Dysphagia 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common  
Common  
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common  
Common 
Common  
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common  
Common  
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Preferred term 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders  
General disorders and administration site 
conditions  
Pruritus 
Very common 
Rash 
Very common 
Urticaria 
Common 
Erythema 
Common 
Palmer erythema 
Common 
Hyperhidrosis 
Common 
Rash erythematous 
Common 
Rash pruritic 
Common 
Skin plaque 
Common 
Angioedema 
Uncommon 
Skin discolouration 
Uncommon 
Muscle spasms 
Common  
Myalgia 
Common  
Pain in extremity 
Common 
Flank pain 
Common 
Fatigue 
Common 
Chills 
Common 
Chest discomfort  
Common 
Pain 
Common 
Influenza-like illness 
Common 
Infusion site pain 
Common 
Pyrexia 
Common  
Asthenia 
Common 
Face oedema 
Common  
Feeling cold 
Common  
Feeling hot 
Common  
Sluggishness  
Common  
Facial pain 
Uncommon 
Hyperthermia 
Uncommon 
Infusion site extravasation 
Uncommon 
Infusion site joint pain 
Uncommon 
Infusion site rash 
Uncommon 
Infusion site reaction 
Uncommon 
Infusion site urticaria 
Uncommon 
Localized oedema 
Uncommon 
Peripheral swelling 
Uncommon 
Blood pressure increased 
Common 
Oxygen saturation decreased 
Common 
Body temperature increase 
Common 
Heart rate increased 
Uncommon 
Breath sounds abnormal 
Uncommon 
Complement factor increased 
Uncommon 
Immune complex level increased 
Uncommon 
Table 2 includes treatment related adverse events that are considered biologically plausibly related to 
avalglucosidase alfa based on the alglucosidase alfa SmPC.  
Investigation 
In a comparative study, EFC14028/COMET, 100 LOPD (late-onset Pompe disease) patients aged 16 
to 78 naïve to enzyme replacement therapy were treated either with 20 mg/kg of Nexviadyme (n=51) 
or 20 mg/kg of alglucosidase alfa (n=49). During the double-blind active-controlled period of 49 
weeks, serious adverse reactions were reported in 2% of patients treated with Nexviadyme and 6.1% 
of those treated with alglucosidase alfa. A total of 8.2% patients receiving alglucosidase alfa in the 
study permanently discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions; none of the patients from the 
Nexviadyme group permanently discontinued the treatment. The most frequently reported ADRs 
(>5%) in patients treated with Nexviadyme were headache, nausea, pruritus, urticaria, and fatigue. 
The 95 patients who entered open-label extension period of EFC14028/COMET consisted of 51 
patients who continued treatment with Nexviadyme and 44 patients who switched from alglucosidase 
alfa to Nexviadyme. 
8 
 
 
  
During the open-label extension period, serious adverse reactions were reported by 3 (5.8%) patients 
continuing Nexviadyme treatment throughout the study and by 3 (6.8%) patients who switched to 
Nexviadyme. The most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) by patients continuing 
Nexviadyme treatment throughout the study were nausea, chills, erythema, pruritus, and urticaria. The 
most frequently reported adverse reactions (>5%) by patients who switched to Nexviadyme were 
pruritus, rash, headache, nausea, chills, fatigue, and urticaria.  
No adverse reaction or IAR was reported by the additional paediatric patient directly enrolled in the 
open-label extension period.  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity (including anaphylaxis) 
In a pooled safety analysis, 86/142 (60.6%) patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions including 
7/142 (4.9%) patients who reported severe hypersensitivity reactions and 4/142 (2.8%) patients who 
experienced anaphylaxis. Some of the hypersensitivity reactions were IgE mediated. Anaphylaxis 
signs and symptoms included tongue oedema, hypotension, hypoxia, respiratory distress, chest 
pressure, generalised oedema, generalised flushing, feeling hot, cough, dizziness, dysarthria, throat 
tightness, dysphagia, nausea, redness on palms, swollen lower lip, decreased breath sounds, redness on 
feet, swollen tongue, itchy palms and feet, and oxygen desaturation. Symptoms of severe 
hypersensitivity reactions included tongue oedema, respiratory failure, respiratory distress, generalized 
oedema, erythema, urticaria, and rash. 
Infusion-associated reactions (IARs) 
In a pooled safety analysis, IARs were reported in approximately 56/142 (39.4%) of patients treated 
with avalglucosidase alfa in clinical studies. Severe IARs were reported in 6/142 (4.2%) of patients 
including symptoms of respiratory distress, hypoxia, chest discomfort, generalized oedema, tongue 
oedema, dysphagia, nausea, erythema, urticaria, and increased or decreased blood pressure. IARs 
reported in more than 1 patient included respiratory distress, chest discomfort, dyspnoea, cough, 
oxygen saturation decreased, throat irritation, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, lip swelling, 
swollen tongue, erythema, palmar erythema, rash, rash erythematous, pruritus, urticaria, hyperhidrosis, 
skin plaque, ocular hyperaemia, eyelid oedema, face oedema, increased or decreased blood pressure, 
tachycardia, headache, dizziness, tremor, burning sensation, pain (including pain in extremity, 
abdominal pain upper, oropharyngeal pain, and flank pain), somnolence, sluggishness, fatigue, 
pyrexia, influenza like illness, chills, flushing, feeling hot or cold, cyanosis, and pallor. The majority 
of IARs were assessed as mild to moderate.  
In the comparative study EFC14028/COMET study, fewer LOPD patients in the avalglucosidase alfa 
group reported at least 1 IAR (13/51 [25.5%]) in comparison to the alglucosidase alfa group (16/49 
[32.7%]). Severe IARs were not reported in patients in the avalglucosidase alfa group and reported in 
2 patients in the alglucosidase alfa group (dizziness, visual impairment, hypotension, dyspnoea, cold 
sweat, and chills). The most frequently reported treatment-emergent IARs (>2 patients) in the 
avalglucosidase alfa group were pruritus (7.8%) and urticaria (5.9%) and in the alglucosidase alfa 
group were nausea (8.2%), pruritus (8.2%), and flushing (6.1%). The majority of IARs reported in 7 
(13.7%) patients were of mild severity in the avalglucosidase alfa group and 10 (20.4%) patients in the 
alglucosidase alfa group.   
During the open-label extension period, IARs were reported in 12 (23.5%) patients continuing 
Nexviadyme treatment throughout the study; IARs reported in more than 1 patient were nausea, chills, 
erythema, pruritus, pyrexia, urticaria, rash, and ocular hyperaemia. IARs were reported in 22 (50%) 
patients who switched to Nexviadyme; IARs reported in more than 1 patient were pruritus, headache, 
rash, nausea, chills, fatigue, urticaria, respiratory distress, feeling cold, chest discomfort, erythema,  
rash erythematous, rash pruritic, skin plaque, burning sensation, lip swelling, and swollen tongue. The 
number of IARs in both groups decreased over time.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
The incidence of ADA response to avalglucosidase alfa in Nexviadyme-treated patients with Pompe 
disease is shown in Table 3. The median time to seroconversion was 8.3 weeks. 
In treatment-naïve adult patients, the occurrence of IARs was observed in both ADA-positive and 
ADA-negative patients. Increase in the incidence of IARs and hypersensitivity were observed with 
higher IgG ADA titres. In treatment-naïve patients, a trend for increases in the incidence of IARs was 
observed with increasing ADA titres, with the highest incidence of IARs (69.2%) reported in the high 
ADA peak titre range ≥12,800, compared with an incidence of 33.3% in patients with intermediate 
ADA titre 1,600-6,400, an incidence of 14.3% in those with low ADA titre 100-800 and an incidence 
of 33.3% in those who were ADA negative. In enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) experienced adult 
patients, the occurrences of IARs and hypersensitivity were higher in patients who developed 
treatment emergent ADA compared to patients who were ADA negative. One (1) treatment naïve 
patient and 1 treatment-experienced patient developed anaphylaxis. The occurrences of IARs were 
similar between paediatric patients with ADA positive and negative status. One treatment-experienced 
paediatric patient developed anaphylaxis (see section 4.4). 
In clinical study EFC14028/COMET, 81 of 96 (84.4%) patients developed treatment-emergent ADA. 
Majority of patients developed ADA titre in the low to intermediate range, with 7 patients reported 
High Sustained Antibody Titres (HSAT) to Nexviadyme. Evaluation of ADA cross-reactivity at week 
49 showed that patients generate antibodies that are cross-reactive to alglucosidase alfa and 
Nexviadyme were detected in 3 (5.9%) patients. Variable impact on PK, PD, and efficacy measures 
were observed among high titre patients, however, in most patients there was no clinically significant 
effect of ADA on efficacy (see section 5.2). 
Table 3 – Treatment emergent ADA incidence in LOPD and IOPD patient population 
Treatment-naïve 
patients 
Avalglucosidase 
alfa ADAa  
Adults  
20 mg/kg every 
other week 
(N=62) 
N (%) 
2 (3.3) 
ADA at baseline 
Nexviadyme 
Treatment-experienced patientsb 
Avalglucosidase alfa ADA 
Adults  
Paediatric   Paediatric  
20 mg/kg 
every other 
week 
40 mg/kg 
every 
other week 
(N=6) 
N (%) 
(N=16) 
N (%) 
2 (12.5) 
43 (74.1) 
1 (16.7) 
20 mg/kg 
every 
other 
week 
(N=58) 
N (%) 
Treatment emergent ADA   
59 (95.2) 
36 (62.1) 
1 (16.6) 
9 (56.3) 
Neutralizing antibody 
Both NAb types 
Inhibition enzyme activity, only 
14 (22.6) 
5 (8.1) 
5 (8.6) 
6 (10.3) 
Inhibition of enzyme uptake, only 
12 (19.4) 
15 (25.9) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (12.5%) 
a Includes two paediatric patients 
b Treatment-experienced patients received alglucosidase alfa treatment before or during the clinical study within 
a range of 0.9-9.9 years for adult patients and 0.6-11.8 years for paediatric patients. 
c Not determined 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Adverse drug reactions reported from clinical studies in the paediatric population (19 paediatric 
patients with IOPD between 1-12 years of age (mean age of 6.8) and two paediatric patients (9 and 16 
years old) with LOPD) were similar to those reported in adults. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.* 
4.9  Overdose  
Excessive infusion rate of Nexviadyme may result in hot flush. In a clinical study, paediatric patients 
received doses up to 40 mg/kg of body weight once every 2 weeks and no specific signs and 
symptoms were identifies following the higher doses. For management of adverse reactions, see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Alimentary tract and metabolism products - enzymes, ATC code: 
A16AB22.  
Mechanism of action 
Avalglucosidase alfa is a recombinant human acid α-glucosidase (rhGAA) that provides an exogenous 
source of GAA. Avalglucosidase alfa is a modification of alglucosidase alfa in which approximately 
7 hexamannose structures each containing 2 terminal mannose-6-phosphate (bis-M6P) moieties are 
conjugated to oxidized sialic acid residues on alglucosidase alfa. Avalglucosidase alfa has a 15-fold 
increase in mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) moieties compared with alglucosidase alfa. Binding to M6P 
receptors on the cell surface has been shown to occur via carbohydrate groups on the GAA molecule, 
after which it is internalised and transported into lysosomes, where it undergoes proteolytic cleavage 
that results in increased enzymatic activity to degrade glycogen.   
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Clinical studies in patients with LOPD 
Study 1, EFC14028/COMET, was a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blinded study 
comparing the efficacy and safety of Nexviadyme and alglucosidase alfa in 100 treatment-naïve 
LOPD patients aged 16 to 78 years of age at the initiation of treatment. Patients were randomised in a 
1:1 ratio based on baseline forced vital capacity (FVC), gender, age, and country to receive 20 mg/kg 
of Nexviadyme or alglucosidase alfa once every other week for 12 months (49 weeks).  
Study 1 included an open-label extension treatment period where all patients in the alglucosidase alfa 
arm were switched to Nexviadyme and continued treatment up to at least week 145. Overall, 95 
patients entered the open-label period (51 from the Nexviadyme arm and 44 from the alglucosidase 
alfa arm). An additional paediatric patient was enrolled directly into the extension treatment period 
with Nexviadyme. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint of study 1 was the change in FVC % predicted in the upright position from 
baseline to 12 months (week 49). At week 49, the LS mean change (SE) in FVC % predicted for 
patients treated with Nexviadyme and alglucosidase alfa was 2.89% (0.88) and 0.46% (0.93), 
respectively. The clinically significant LS mean difference of 2.43% (95% CI: -0.13, 4.99) between 
Nexviadyme and alglucosidase alfa in FVC % predicted exceeded the pre-defined non-inferiority 
margin of -1.1 and achieved statistical non-inferiority (p=0.0074). The study did not demonstrate 
statistical significance for superiority (p=0.0626) and the testing of the secondary endpoints was 
performed without multiplicity adjustment.   
The results for the primary endpoint are detailed in Table 4. 
For patients who switched from alglucosidase alfa to Nexviadyme treatment after week 49, the LS 
mean change in FVC % predicted from week 49 to week 145 was 0.81 (1.08) (95% CI: -1.32, 2.95). A 
stabilization in FVC % predicted was maintained after the switch to Nexviadyme in the alglucosidase 
alfa group with similar values to the Nexviadyme group at week 145. Patients who continued in the 
Nexviadyme arm maintained an improvement in FVC % predicted compared with baseline. 
Table 4 – LS Mean change from baseline to week 49 in FVC % predicted in upright position 
Nexviadyme (n=51) 
Alglucosidase Alfa (n=49) 
Forced Vital Capacity % predicted in upright position 
Pre-treatment baseline 
Week 13 
Week 25 
Week 37 
Week 49 
Estimated change from 
baseline to week 49 
(MMRM) 
Estimated difference 
between groups in 
change from baseline to 
week 49 (MMRM) 
Mean (SD) 
LS mean (SE) change 
from baseline 
LS mean (SE) change 
from baseline 
LS mean (SE) change 
from baseline 
Mean (SD) 
LS mean (SE) change 
from baseline 
LS mean (95% CI) 
p-value b 
p-value c 
62.55 (14.39) 
61.56 (12.40) 
3.05 (0.78) 
3.21 (0.80) 
2.21 (1.00) 
0.65 (0.81) 
0.57 (0.84) 
0.55 (1.05) 
65.49 (17.42) 
61.16 (13.49) 
2.89a (0.88) 
0.46a (0.93) 
2.43a (-0.13,4.99) 
0.0074 
0.0626 
MMRM: mixed model repeated measure. 
a On the basis of MMRM model, the model includes baseline FVC % predicted (as continuous), sex, age (in 
years at baseline), treatment group, visit, interaction term between treatment group and visit as fixed effects.  
b Non-inferiority margin of -1.1% 
c Superiority not achieved 
The key secondary endpoint of study 1 was change in total distance walked in 6 minutes (6-Minute 
Walk Test, 6MWT) from baseline to 12 months (week 49). At week 49, the LS mean change from 
baseline (SE) in 6MWT for patients treated with Nexviadyme and alglucosidase alfa was 32.21 m 
(9.93) and 2.19 m (10.40) respectively. The LS mean difference of 30.01 m (95% CI: 1.33,58.69) 
showed numerical improvement with Nexviadyme compared with alglucosidase alfa. The results for 
the 6MWT are detailed in Table 5.  
For patients who switched from alglucosidase alfa to Nexviadyme treatment after week 49, the LS 
mean change in 6MWT (distance walked in meters) from week 49 to week 145 was -2.3 m (10.6), 
95% CI: -23.2, 18.7. At Week 145, a stabilization in 6MWT was observed after the switch from the 
alglucosidase alfa group to Nexviadyme. The Nexviadyme arm participants sustained the 
improvement compared with baseline. 
Additional secondary endpoints of the study were maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP), maximum 
expiratory pressure (MEP), Hand-held dynamometry (HHD) summary score, quick motor function test 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(QMFT) total score, and SF-12 (health-related survey on quality of life, both physical and mental 
component scores). The results for these endpoints are detailed in Table 5.  
In treatment-naïve LOPD patients aged 16 to 78, who started on Nexviadyme 20 mg/kg every other 
week, the mean percentage (SD) change in urinary hexose tetrasaccharides from baseline to week 49 
was -53.90% (24.03), which was maintained at week 145 at -53.35% (72.73) in patients who 
continued treatment with Nexviadyme. In patients who started on alglucosidase alfa 20 mg/kg every 
other week, the mean percentage (SD) change in urinary hexose tetrasaccharides from baseline to 
week 49 was -10.8% (32.33), further decreased to -48.04% (41.97) at week 145 after switching from 
alglucosidase alfa to Nexviadyme. 
Table 5 – LS mean change from baseline to week 49 for additional secondary endpoints 
Endpoint 
Nexviadyme 
LS mean change (SE) 
Alglucosidase Alfa 
LS mean change (SE) 
LS mean difference  
(95% CI) 
8.71 (2.09) 
8.35 (2.97) 
4.33 (2.19) 
2.19 (10.40) 
10.97 (2.84) 
32.21 (9.93) 
260.69 (46.07) 
4.38 (-1.64, 10.39) 
30.01 (1.33, 58.69) 
6-minute walk test 
(6MWT) distance 
(meters)a,b 
Maximum Inspiratory 
Pressure (MIP) (% 
predicted)c 
Maximum Expiratory 
Pressure (% predicted)c  
Hand-held dynamometry 
(HHD) summary scores  
Quick Motor function Test 
(QMFT) total score 
Health-related survey on 
0.77 (-2.13, 3.67) 
quality of life (SF-12)  
2.12 (-1.46, 5.69) 
aThe MMRM model for 6MWT distance adjusts for baseline FVC % predicted and baseline 6MWT (distance 
walked in meters), age (in years, at baseline), gender, treatment group, visit, and treatment-by-visit interaction 
as fixed effects. 
b LS mean (SE) change from baseline at Weeks 13, 25, and 37 was 18.02 (8.79), 27.26 (9.98), and 28.43 (9.06), 
respectively, in the avalglucosidase alfa group and 15.11 (9.16), 9.58 (10.41), and 15.49 (9.48), respectively, in 
the alglucosidase alfa group. 
c Post-hoc sensitivity analysis excluding 4 patients (2 in each treatment arm) with supraphysiologic baseline MIP 
and MEP values. 
d Physical Component Summary. 
e Mental Component Summary. 
PCSd score: 2.37 (0.99) 
MCSe score: 2.88 (1.22) 
1.60 (1.07) 
0.76 (1.32) 
106.97 (-26.56, 240.5) 
2.61 (-5.61, 10.83) 
2.08 (0.22, 3.95) 
153.72 (48.54) 
1.89 (0.69) 
3.98 (0.63) 
In an open-label, uncontrolled study in LOPD patients, the FVC % predicted and 6MWT showed 
maintenance of effect during the long-term treatment with avalglucosidase alfa 20 mg/kg every other 
week for up to 6 years. 
Clinical study in patients with IOPD 
Study 2, ACT14132/mini-COMET, was a multi-stage, phase 2, open-label, multicentre, multinational, 
repeated ascending dose cohort of Nexviadyme in paediatric IOPD patients (1-12 years of age) who 
demonstrated either clinical decline or sub-optimal clinical response while on treatment with 
alglucosidase alfa. The study enrolled a total of 22 patients; cohort 1 had 6 patients who demonstrated 
clinical decline and received 20 mg/kg every other week for 25 weeks, cohort 2 had 5 patients who 
demonstrated clinical decline and received 40 mg/kg every other week for 25 weeks, and cohort 3 had 
11 patients who demonstrated sub-optimal response and received either Nexviadyme at 40 mg/kg 
every other week for 25 weeks (5 patients) or alglucosidase alfa at their stable pre-study dose (ranging 
between 20 mg/kg every other week and 40 mg/kg weekly) for 25 weeks (6 patients).  
The primary objective of study 2 was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of administering 
Nexviadyme. The secondary objective was to determine the efficacy of Nexviadyme. Data showed 
stabilization or improvement in efficacy outcomes of gross motor function classification measure-88 
(GMFM-88), quick motor function test (QMFT), Pompe paediatric evaluation of disability inventory 
(Pompe-PEDI), left ventricular mass (LVM) Z score, eyelid position measurements in patients 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
previously declining or insufficiently controlled with alglucosidase alfa. Treatment effect was more 
pronounced with 40 mg/kg every other week compared to the 20 mg/kg every other week. Two out of 
six patients treated with Nexviadyme at 20 mg/kg every other week (cohort 1) demonstrated further 
clinical decline and received dose increase from 20 to 40 mg/kg every other week at week 55 and 61 
respectively. All patients who received 40 mg/kg every other week maintained this dose for the 
duration of the study without further clinical decline. 
In paediatric IOPD patients (<18 years of age) treated with Nexviadyme at 40 mg/kg every other week 
who demonstrated either clinical decline (cohort 2) or sub-optimal clinical response (cohort 3) while 
on treatment with alglucosidase alfa, the mean percentage (SD) change in urinary hexose 
tetrasaccharides from baseline was -40.97% (16.72) and -37.48% (17.16), respectively, after 6 months. 
In patients previously declining treated with Nexviadyme at 20 mg/kg every other week, mean (SD) 
percentage change was 0.34% (42.09).   
The long-term effects of treatment with Nexviadyme were evaluated in 10 patients at week 49, 8 
patients at week 73, and 3 patients at week 97. In patients with IOPD previously declining with 
alglucosidase alfa, the efficacy on specific parameters of decline, including motor function, cardiac 
left ventricular mass, and eyelid position measurements, was sustained up to 2 years. 
Paediatric population 
Nineteen paediatric patients aged from 1 to 12 years with IOPD previously treated with alglucosidase 
alfa have been treated with Nexviadyme (see section 4.2 and 4.8) and two paediatric patients aged 9 and 
16 years with LOPD was treated with Nexviadyme. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Nexviadyme in one or more subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of Pompe disease 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).  
Pompe registry 
Medical or healthcare professionals are encouraged to register patients who are diagnosed with Pompe 
disease at www.registrynxt.com. Patient data will be anonymously collected in this registry. The 
objectives of the “Pompe registry” are to enhance the understanding of Pompe disease and to monitor 
patients and their response to enzyme replacement therapy over time, with the ultimate goal of 
improving clinical outcomes for these patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Patients with late-onset Pompe disease (LOPD) 
The pharmacokinetics of avalglucosidase alfa was evaluated in a population analysis of 75 LOPD 
patients aged 16 to 78 years who received 5 to 20 mg/kg of avalglucosidase alfa every other week.   
Patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease (IOPD) 
The pharmacokinetics of avalglucosidase alfa was characterized in 16 patients aged 1 to 12 years who 
were treated with avalglucosidase alfa, which included 6 patients treated with 20 mg/kg and 10 
patients treated with 40 mg/kg doses every other week. All patients were treatment-experienced.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
In LOPD patients, for a 4-hour IV infusion of 20 mg/kg every other week, the mean Cmax and mean 
AUC2W were 273 µg/mL (24%) and 1220 µg∙h/ml (29%), respectively. 
In IOPD patients, for a 4-hour IV infusion of 20 mg/kg every other week and 7-hour IV infusion for 
40 mg/kg every other week, the mean Cmax ranged from 175 to 189 μg/ml for the 20 mg/kg dose and 
205 to 403 µg/ml for 40 mg/kg dose. The mean AUC2W ranged from 805 to 923 μg∙hr/ml for the 
20 mg/kg dose and 1720 to 2630 μg∙hr/ml for 40 mg/kg dose. 
Distribution 
In LOPD patients, the typical population PK model predicted central compartment volume of 
distribution of avalglucosidase alfa was 3.4 L. 
In IOPD patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg every other week, the mean 
volume of distribution at steady state ranged between 3.5 to 5.4 L. 
Elimination 
In LOPD patients, the typical population PK model predicted linear clearance was 0.87 L/h. Following 
20 mg/kg every other week, the mean plasma elimination half-life was 1.55 hours. 
In IOPD patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg every other week, mean 
plasma clearance ranged from 0.53 to 0.70 L/h, and mean plasma elimination half-life from 
0.60 to 1.19 hours.   
Linearity/non-linearity 
The exposure to avalglucosidase alfa increased in a dose-proportional manner between 5 to 20 mg/kg 
in LOPD patients and between 20 and 40 mg/kg in IOPD patients. No accumulation was observed 
following every other week dosing.  
Immunogenicity 
In the study 1, EFC14028/COMET, 95.2% (59 of 62 patients) receiving Nexviadyme developed 
treatment-emergent ADA.  Given the variability in ADA response, no clear trend of ADA peak titre 
and impact on PK was evident in patients at week 49. 
Special populations 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses in LOPD patients showed that body weight, age, and gender did 
not meaningfully influence the pharmacokinetics of avalglucosidase alfa. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of avalglucosidase alfa has not been studied in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Renal impairment 
No formal study of the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of avalglucosidase alfa was 
conducted. On the basis of a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 75 LOPD patients 
receiving 20 mg/kg, including 6 patients with mild renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate: 
60 to 89 ml/min; at baseline), no relevant effect of renal impairment on avalglucosidase alfa exposure 
was observed. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeat dose 
toxicity that included safety pharmacology endpoints.  
Avalglucosidase alfa caused no adverse effects in a combined male and female fertility study in mice 
up to 50 mg/kg IV every other day (9.4 times the human steady-state AUC at the recommended 
biweekly dose of 20 mg/kg for patients with LOPD) (see section 4.6). 
In an embryo-foetal toxicity study in mice, administration of avalglucosidase at the highest dose of 
50 mg/kg/day (17 times the human steady-state AUC at the recommended biweekly dose of 20 mg/kg 
for patients with LOPD) produced increased post-implantation loss and mean number of late 
resorptions. No effects were seen at 20 mg/kg/day (4.8 times the human steady-state AUC at the 
recommended biweekly dose of 20 mg/kg for patients with LOPD). Avalglucosidase alfa does not 
cross the placenta in mice, suggesting that the embryo-foetal effects at 50 mg/kg/day were related to 
maternal toxicity from the immunologic response. No malformations or developmental variations were 
observed.  
No adverse effects were observed in an embryo-foetal toxicity study in rabbits administered 
avalglucosidase alfa up to 100 mg/kg/day IV (91 times the human steady-state AUC at the 
recommended biweekly dose of 20 mg/kg for patients with LOPD). 
There were no adverse effects in a pre- and post-natal developmental toxicity study in mice following 
administration of avalglucosidase alfa once every other day. The NOAEL for reproduction in the dams 
and for viability and growth in the offspring was 50 mg/kg every other day IV.  
In juvenile mice, avalglucosidase alfa was generally well tolerated following administration for 9 
weeks at doses up to 100 mg/kg every other week IV (~2 to 5 times the human steady-state AUC at 
the recommended biweekly dose of 40 mg/kg for patients with IOPD). However, the highest dose 
tested in juvenile animals is not enough to discard a potential risk for IOPD patients at 40 mg/kg based 
on exposure margin.   
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Histidine   
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Glycine 
Mannitol 
Polysorbate 80 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
Unopened vials: 4 years 
Reconstituted medicinal product 
After reconstitution, chemical, physical, and microbiological in-use stability has been demonstrated 
for 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted product should be used immediately. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If not used for dilution immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to dilution are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C. 
Diluted medicinal product 
After dilution, chemical, physical and microbiological in-use stability has been demonstrated between 
0.5 mg/ml and 4 mg/ml for 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, followed by 9 hours at room temperature (up to 
25°C) to allow for infusion. Use Aseptic Techniques.  
From a microbiological point of view, the medicinal product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user and would normally 
not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, followed by 9 hours at room temperature (up to 25°C) to 
allow for infusion.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
100 mg of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion in a vial (type I glass) with a stopper 
(elastomeric rubber), seal (aluminium) and a flip off cap.   
Each pack contains 1, 5, 10, or 25 vials.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Vials are for single use only.  
Reconstitution 
Aseptic technique should be used during reconstitution. 
1.  The number of vials have to be determined to be reconstituted based on individual patient’s 
weight and the recommended dose of 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg. 
Patient weight (kg) × dose (mg/kg) = patient dose (in mg). Patient dose (in mg) divided by 
100 mg/vial = number of vials to reconstitute. If the number of vials includes a fraction, it 
should be rounded up to the next whole number.  
Example: Patient weight (16 kg) × dose (20 mg/kg) = patient dose (320 mg). 320 mg divided 
by 100 mg/vial = 3.2 vials; therefore, 4 vials should be reconstituted.  
Example: Patient weight (16 kg) × dose (40 mg/kg) = patient dose (640 mg).  
640 mg divided by 100 mg/vial = 6.4 vials; therefore, 7 vials should be reconstituted. 
2.  The required number of vials needed for the infusion should be removed from the refrigerator 
and set aside for approximately 30 minutes to allow them to reach room temperature.   
3.  Each vial should be reconstituted by slowly injecting 10.0 ml of water for injections (WFI) to 
each vial. Each vial will yield 100 mg/10 ml (10 mg/ml). Forceful impact of the WFI on the 
powder and foaming should be avoided. This is performed by slow drop-wise addition of the 
WFI down the inside of the vial and not directly onto the lyophilised powder. Each vial should 
be tilted and rolled gently to dissolve the lyophilised powder. It should not be inverted, 
swirled, or shaken.  
4.  Immediate visual inspection should be performed on the reconstituted vials for particulate 
matter and discoloration. If upon immediate inspection particles are observed or if the solution 
is discoloured, the reconstituted medicinal product should not be used. The solution should be 
allowed to become dissolved.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dilution 
5.  The reconstituted solution should be diluted in 5% glucose in water to a final concentration of 
0.5 mg/ml to 4 mg/ml. See Table 6 for the recommended total infusion volume based on the 
patient weight.   
6.  The volume of reconstituted solution from each vial should be slowly withdrawn (calculated 
according to patient’s weight).  
7.  The reconstituted solution should be added slowly and directly into the 5% glucose solution. 
Foaming or agitation of the infusion bag should be avoided. Air introduction into the infusion 
bag should be avoided.   
8.  To mix the infusion bag solution, gently invert or massage the infusion bag to mix. It should 
not be shaken.  
9.  To avoid administration of inadvertently introduced particles during dose IV preparation, it is 
recommended to use an in-line, low protein binding, 0.2 μm filter to administer Nexviadyme. 
After the infusion is complete, the intravenous line should be flushed with glucose 5% in 
water. 
10.  Nexviadyme should not be infused in the same intravenous line with other medicinal products. 
Table 6 – Projected intravenous infusion volumes for Nexviadyme administration by patient 
weight at 20 and 40 mg/kg Dose 
Patient Weight Range  
(kg)  
Total infusion volume for 20 mg/kg 
(ml)  
Total infusion volume for 40 mg/kg 
(ml)  
1.25 to 5  
5.1 to 10  
10.1 to 20  
20.1 to 30  
30.1 to 35  
35.1 to 50  
50.1 to 60  
60.1 to 100  
100.1 to 120  
120.1 to 140  
140.1 to 160  
160.1 to 180  
180.1 to 200  
50  
50  
100  
150  
200  
250  
300  
500  
600  
700  
800  
900  
1000  
50  
100  
200  
300  
400  
500  
600  
1000  
1200  
1400  
1600  
1800  
2000  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V.  
Paasheuvelweg 25  
1105 BP Amsterdam  
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1579/001 
EU/1/21/1579/002 
EU/1/21/1579/003 
EU/1/21/1579/004 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 24 June 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND  
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance  
Genzyme Flanders,  
Cipalstraat 8,  
2440 Geel, Belgium 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release  
Genzyme Ireland Limited,  
IDA Industrial Park,  
Old Kilmeaden Road,  
Waterford, Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this medicinal product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the launch of Nexviadyme in each Member State, the Marketing Authorization Holder 
(MAH) must agree about the content and format of the educational program, including 
communication media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the program, with the 
National Competent Authority. The educational program is aimed at increasing the awareness 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
about the immunosurveillance service and to support the correct and safe administration of the 
product in the home setting. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each member state where Nexviadyme is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals (HCPs) who are expected to prescribe, dispense, and administer Nexviadyme are 
provided with the following educational package to be disseminated through professional bodies:   
•  Healthcare professionals (HCPs) guide for immunosurveillance service and 
•  Home infusion guide for HCPs 
Guide for healthcare professionals for Immunosurveillance Service shall include the following key 
elements:  
•  Testing recommendations: 
o  Baseline serum sample collection prior to the first infusion is strongly encouraged. 
o 
Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody titres should be regularly monitored and IgG anti-drug 
antibody (ADA) testing should be considered if patients do not respond to therapy. 
o  Treated patients may be tested for inhibitory antibodies if they experience a decrease in 
clinical benefit despite continued treatment with Nexviadyme. 
o  Adverse-event-driven immunologic testing, including IgG and Immunoglobulin E (IgE) 
ADA, should be considered for patients at risk for allergic reaction or previous 
anaphylactic reaction to Myozyme (alglucosidase alfa). 
o  Adverse-event-driven immunologic testing should also be considered in patients who 
experience moderate/severe or recurrent infusion-associated reactions (IARs) suggestive 
of hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylactic reactions. 
•  Testing practicalities of the testing service and contact details 
o  Description of the testing services: available tests, indication for testing, sample type, 
Frequency of testing, collection time 
o  Procedure for testing: diagram summarizing main steps for HCP requesting Specialty 
testing services 
The home infusion guide for HCPs which will serve as training document to HCPs who will perform 
the infusion at home shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Requirements and organization of the home infusion including equipment, pre‑treatment and 
emergency treatments.  
•  Details on the preparation and administration of Nexviadyme, including all the steps of 
preparation, reconstitution, dilution, and administration  
•  Medical evaluation of the patient prior to administration of the infusion at home  
• 
Information on signs and symptoms related to infusion-associated reactions and recommended 
actions for the management of the ADRs when symptoms occur. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Nexviadyme 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
avalglucosidase alfa  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 100 mg of avalglucosidase alfa.  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Histidine   
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Glycine 
Mannitol 
Polysorbate 80 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5 vials 
10 vials 
25 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
Use immediately after dilution.  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/0/00/000/000 1 vial  
EU/0/00/000/000 5 vials  
EU/0/00/000/000 10 vials  
EU/0/00/000/000 25 vials  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
27 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Nexviadyme 100 mg powder for concentrate  
avalglucosidase alfa 
IV use after reconstitution and dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
100 mg 
6. 
OTHER  
Sanofi B.V.-NL 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Nexviadyme 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion  
avalglucosidase alfa 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains  
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist. or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist. or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Nexviadyme is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Nexviadyme  
3.  How Nexviadyme is given  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Nexviadyme  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Nexviadyme is and what it is used for 
What Nexviadyme is 
Nexviadyme contains an enzyme called avalglucosidase alfa – it is a copy of the natural enzyme called 
acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) that is lacking in people with Pompe disease. 
What Nexviadyme is used for 
Nexviadyme is used to treat people of all ages who have Pompe disease.  
People with Pompe disease have low levels of the enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA). This 
enzyme helps control levels of glycogen (a type of carbohydrate) in the body. Glycogen provides the 
body with energy, but in Pompe disease high levels of glycogen build up in different muscles and 
damages them. The medicine replaces the missing enzyme so that the body can reduce the build-up of 
glycogen. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Nexviadyme  
Do not use Nexviadyme  
If you have had life-threatening allergic (hypersensitive) reactions to avalglucosidase alfa or any of the 
other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) and these reactions occurred again after stopping 
and restarting the medicine.  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse before using Nexviadyme 
Speak to your doctor immediately if treatment with Nexviadyme causes: 
• 
allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction) – see under ‘Possible side 
effects’, below for symptoms 
infusion-associated reaction while you are receiving the medicine or in the few hours afterwards 
– see under ‘Possible side effects’, below for symptoms 
• 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also tell your doctor if you have swelling in your legs or widespread swelling of your body. Your 
doctor will decide if your Nexviadyme infusion should stop and the doctor will give you appropriate 
medical treatment. Your doctor will also decide if you can continue receiving avalglucosidase alfa. 
Other medicines and Nexviadyme 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used, or might use any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding and fertility  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. There is no information about the use 
of Nexviadyme in pregnant women. You must not receive Nexviadyme during pregnancy unless your 
doctor specifically recommends it. You and your doctor should decide if you can use Nexviadyme if 
you are breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines  
Nexviadyme may have a minor effect on the ability to drive and use machines. Because dizziness, low 
blood pressure and sleepiness can occur as infusion-associated reactions, this may affect the ability to 
drive and use machines on the day of the infusion. 
3. 
How Nexviadyme is given 
Nexviadyme will be given to you under the supervision of a health care professional who is 
experienced in the treatment of Pompe disease.  
You may be given other medicines before you receive Nexviadyme, to reduce some side effects. Such 
medicines include an antihistamine, a steroid and a medicine (such as paracetamol) to reduce fever. 
The dose of Nexviadyme is based on your weight and will be given to you once every 2 weeks.  
• 
The recommended dose of Nexviadyme is 20 mg/kg of body weight.  
Home infusion 
Your doctor may consider that you can have home infusion of Nexviadyme if it is safe and convenient 
to do so. If you get any side effects during an infusion of Nexviadyme, your home infusion staff 
member may stop the infusion and start appropriate medical treatment.   
Instructions for proper use  
Nexviadyme is given through a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion). It is supplied to the healthcare 
professional as a powder to mix with sterile water and further dilute with glucose before infusing it.  
If you are given more Nexviadyme than you should  
Excessive infusion rate of Nexviadyme may result in hot flush. 
If you miss your dose of Nexviadyme  
If you have missed an infusion, please contact your doctor. If you have any further questions on the 
use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. 
If you stop using Nexviadyme  
Speak to your doctor if you wish to stop Nexviadyme treatment. The symptoms of your disease may 
worsen if you stop treatment.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Side effects mainly occur while patients are being given Nexviadyme infusion or shortly afterwards. 
You must tell your doctor immediately if you get an infusion-associated reaction or an allergic 
reaction. Your doctor may give you medicines before your infusion to prevent these reactions.  
Infusion-associated reactions 
Mostly infusion-associated reactions are mild or moderate. Symptoms of infusion-associated reaction 
include chest discomfort, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, chills, cough, diarrhoea, 
fatigue, headache, flu-like illness, nausea, vomiting, red eye, pain in arms and legs, skin redness, itchy 
skin, rash, and hives.  
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions may include symptoms such as difficulty breathing, chest pressure, flushing, cough, 
dizziness, nausea, redness on palms and feet, itchy palms and feet, swollen lower lip and tongue, low 
level of oxygen in the blood, and rash. 
Very Common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity  
Headache 
Nausea 
Itchy skin 
Rash 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
Anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) 
• 
Dizziness 
• 
Sleepiness 
• 
Tremor (shaking) 
• 
Burning sensation 
• 
Red eyes 
• 
Itchy eyes 
• 
Swelling of eyelid 
• 
Rapid heartbeat 
• 
Flushing 
• 
Raised blood pressure 
• 
Low blood pressure 
• 
Skin and lips turning blue 
• 
Hot flush 
• 
Pale skin 
• 
Cough 
• 
Difficulty breathing  
• 
Throat irritation 
• 
Mouth and throat pain 
• 
Diarrhoea 
• 
Vomiting 
• 
Lip swelling 
• 
Swollen tongue 
• 
Abdominal (belly) pain 
• 
Abdominal (belly) pain upper 
• 
Indigestion 
• 
Hives 
• 
Redness of hands 
• 
Redness of skin  
• 
Red rash 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
Excessive sweating 
Itchy rash 
Skin plaque 
Muscle spasms 
Muscle aches 
Pain in arm or leg 
Flank pain 
Fatigue 
Chills 
Fever 
Chest discomfort 
Pain 
Flu-like illness 
Infusion site pain 
Low blood oxygen 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weakness 
• 
• 
Swelling of face 
Feeling cold or hot 
Inflammation of eyes 
Numbness or tingling 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
•  Watery eyes 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Extra heart beats 
Rapid breathing 
Swelling of throat 
Numbness in the mouth, tongue, or lip 
Tingling in the mouth, tongue, or lip 
Difficulty swallowing 
Swelling of skin 
Skin discolouration 
Facial pain 
Increased body temperature 
Infusion site tissue leakage 
Infusion site joint pain 
Infusion site rash 
Infusion site reaction 
Infusion site itching 
Localised oedema 
Swelling in the arms and legs 
Breath sounds abnormal (wheezing) 
Blood test for inflammation 
Reduced sensation to touch, pain, and temperature 
Oral discomfort (including lip burning sensation) 
The reported side effects seen in children and adolescents were similar to those seen in adults.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet.  
You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. By 
reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Nexviadyme 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label after EXP. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials:  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Reconstituted solution: 
After reconstitution, immediate use for dilution is recommended. The reconstituted solution can be 
stored up to 24 hours when refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C.  
Diluted solution: 
After dilution, immediate use is recommended. The diluted solution can be stored for 24 hours at 2°C 
to 8°C followed by 9 hours at room temperature (up to 25°C).  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or 
nurse how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nexviadyme contains  
The active substance is avalglucosidase alfa. One vial contains 100 mg of avalglucosidase alfa. After 
reconstitution, the solution contains 10 mg of avalglucosidase alfa per ml and after dilution the 
concentration varies from 0.5 mg/ml to 4 mg/ml. 
The other ingredients are 
•  Histidine 
•  Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
•  Glycine 
•  Mannitol 
•  Polysorbate 80 
What Nexviadyme looks like and contents of the pack 
Avalglucosidase alfa is a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion in a vial (100 mg/vial). Each 
pack contains 1, 5, 10, or 25 vials. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
The powder is white to pale yellow. After reconstitution it is a clear, colourless to pale yellow 
solution. The reconstituted solution must be further diluted. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Genzyme Ireland Limited, IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 04 36 996 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 70 13 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ  
Tel: +372 640 10 30 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE  
Τηλ: +30 210 900 1600 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel: +370 5 236 91 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 710 54 00 (Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 – 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie  
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. Tel: +351 
21 35 89 400 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ireland 
Sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800536389 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o.  
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 208 33 600 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 201 200 300 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA  
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Reconstitution 
Use aseptic technique during reconstitution. 
1. 
Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the individual patient’s weight and 
the recommended dose of 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg. 
Patient weight (kg) x dose (mg/kg) = patient dose (in mg). Patient dose (in mg) divided by 
100 mg/vial = number of vials to reconstitute. If the number of vials includes a fraction, round 
up to the next whole number.  
Example: Patient weight (16 kg) x dose (20 mg/kg) = patient dose (320 mg). 320 mg divided by 
100 mg/vial = 3.2 vials; therefore, 4 vials should be reconstituted.  
Example: Patient weight (16 kg) x dose (40 mg/kg) = patient dose (640 mg).  
640 mg divided by 100 mg/vial = 6.4 vials; therefore, 7 vials should be reconstituted. 
Remove the required number of vials needed for the infusion from the refrigerator and set aside 
for approximately 30 minutes to allow them to reach room temperature.   
Reconstitute each vial by slowly injecting 10.0 ml of water for injections (WFI) to each vial. 
Each vial will yield 100 mg/10 ml (10 mg/ml). Avoid forceful impact of the WFI on the powder 
and avoid foaming. This is done by slow drop-wise addition of the water for injection down the 
inside of the vial and not directly onto the lyophilised powder. Tilt and roll each vial gently. Do 
not invert, swirl, or shake.  
Perform an immediate visual inspection on the reconstituted vials for particulate matter and 
discoloration. If upon immediate inspection, particles are observed or if the solution is 
discoloured, do not use. Allow the solution to become dissolved.  
The reconstituted solution should be diluted in 5% glucose in water to a final concentration of 
0.5 mg/ml to 4 mg/ml. See Table 1 for the recommended total infusion volume based on the 
patient weight.   
Slowly withdraw the volume of reconstituted solution from each vial (calculated according to 
the patient’s weight).  
Add the reconstituted solution slowly and directly into the 5% glucose solution. Avoid foaming 
or agitation of the infusion bag. Avoid air introduction into the infusion bag.   
Gently invert or massage the infusion bag to mix. Do not shake.  
To avoid administration of inadvertently introduced particles during dose IV preparation, it is 
recommended to use an in-line low protein binding 0.2 μm filter to administer Nexviadyme. 
After the infusion is complete, flush the intravenous line with glucose 5% in water. 
Do not infuse Nexviadyme in the same intravenous line with other medicines. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Dilution 
1. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Projected Intravenous Infusion Volumes for Nexviadyme Administration by Patient 
Weight at 20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg Dose 
Patient Weight Range  
(kg)  
1.25 to 5  
5.1 to 10  
10.1 to 20  
20.1 to 30  
30.1 to 35  
35.1 to 50  
50.1 to 60  
60.1 to 100  
100.1 to 120  
120.1 to 140  
140.1 to 160  
160.1 to 180  
180.1 to 200  
Total infusion volume (ml)  
for 20 mg/kg  
50  
50  
100  
150  
200  
250  
300  
500  
600  
700  
800  
900  
1000  
Total infusion volume (ml) 
for 40 mg/kg  
50  
100  
200  
300  
400  
500  
600  
1000  
1200  
1400  
1600  
1800  
2000  
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
Home infusion 
Infusion of Nexviadyme at home may be considered for patients who are tolerating their infusions 
well and have no history of moderate or severe IARs for a few months. The decision to have a patient 
move to home infusion should be made after evaluation and upon recommendation by the treating 
physician. A patient’s underlying co-morbidities and ability to adhere to the home infusion 
requirements need to be taken into account when evaluating the patient for eligibility to receive home 
infusion. The following criteria should be considered: 
•  The patient must have no ongoing concurrent condition that, in the opinion of the physician, 
may affect patient’s ability to tolerate the infusion. 
•  The patient is considered medically stable. A comprehensive evaluation must be completed 
before the initiation of home infusion. 
•  The patient must have received Nexviadyme infusions supervised by a physician with 
expertise in management of Pompe patients for a few months that could be in a hospital or in 
another appropriate setting of outpatient care. Documentation of a pattern of well-tolerated 
infusions with no IARs, or mild IARs that have been controlled with premedication, is a 
prerequisite for the initiation of home infusion. 
•  The patient must be willing and able to comply with home infusion procedures.  
•  Home infusion infrastructure, resources, and procedures, including training, must be 
established and available to the healthcare professional. The healthcare professional should be 
available at all times during the home infusion and a specified time after infusion, depending 
on patient’s tolerance prior to starting home infusion.  
If the patient experiences adverse reactions during the home infusion, the infusion process should be 
stopped immediately, and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated. Subsequent infusions may 
need to occur in a hospital or in an appropriate setting of outpatient care until no such adverse reaction 
is present. Dose and infusion rate must not be changed without consulting the responsible physician. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
