Summary of risk management plan for NEXVIADYME (avalglucosidase alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for NEXVIADYME. The RMP details 
important risks of NEXVIADYME how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about NEXVIADYME’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
NEXVIADYME’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how NEXVIADYME 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for NEXVIADYME should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
NEXVIADYME’s RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
NEXVIADYME is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of 
patients with Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase deficiency). 
It contains avalglucosidase alfa as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of NEXVIADYME’s benefits can be found in 
NEXVIADYME’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/nexviadyme
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of NEXVIADYME, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about NEXVIADYME’s risks, are outlined in the next 
sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of NEXVIADYME is not yet available, it is 
listed under “missing information” outlined in the next section. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of NEXVIADYME are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of NEXVIADYME. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risk 
Infusion associated reactions including hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions, 
with or without development of IgG and IgE antibodies 
Important potential risks 
Immunogenicity leading to loss of response (High sustained IgG antibody titers and/or 
neutralizing antibodies) 
Medication error in home infusion setting 
Immune complex related reactions 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Use in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency 
IgE: Immunoglobulin E; IgG: Immunoglobulin G. 
II.B  Summary of important risks  
Table 2 - Important identified risk: “Infusion associated reactions including hypersensitivity and 
anaphylactic reactions, with or without development of IgG and IgE antibodies” with 
corresponding risk minimization activities and additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Infusion associated reactions including hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions, with or 
without development of IgG and IgE antibodies
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
To date, the clinical development program for avalglucosidase alfa includes the 
completed Phase 1/2 open-label, dose-escalation study (TDR12857), completed on 
28-Jul-2015, an ongoing long-term safety, PK and exploratory efficacy extension 
study (LTS13769), a Phase 3 randomized, double-blinded efficacy and safety study 
(EFC14028) and a phase 2 open-label, ascending dose cohort, safety, PK and 
preliminary efficacy study (ACT14132). The PAP for EFC14028 and ACT14132 studies 
is completed. The ETP for these two studies are ongoing. 
Infusion associated reactions were observed in all 4 clinical studies. Anaphylaxis, a 
severe potentially fatal systemic allergic reaction that occurs suddenly after contact 
with an allergen was observed in 2 (1.4%) patients in the avalglucosidase alfa 
program.  
As described, the level of data and evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that 
avalglucosidase alfa can be associated with “IARs including hypersensitivity and 
Infusion associated reactions including hypersensitivity and anaphylactic reactions, with or 
without development of IgG and IgE antibodies
Risk factors and risk groups  
anaphylactic reactions”. This is a known risk associated with ERTs. The safety profile 
of avalglucosidase alfa is consistent with that of alglucosidase and possibly more 
favorable in the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with Pompe disease (LOPD 
and IOPD). IARs including hypersensitivity have been reported in avalglucosidase 
clinical trials. It was deemed that the data was sufficient to include as an identified risk. 
Considering the possible impact of this event on the benefit-risk balance, and the fact 
that this risk is planned to be mitigated  notably through the labeling,  the MAH has 
proposed to include it as an important identified risk in list of safety concerns. 
Pompe disease is classified into different phenotypes based on age at onset of 
symptoms, extent of organ involvement, and rate of progression to death. These 
phenotypes range from a rapidly progressive infantile-onset form to a more slowly 
progressive late-onset form, with considerable variability and overlap between these 
2 extremes. Infantile-onset Pompe disease presents in the first months of life and is 
characterized by severe cardiomyopathy, hypotonia, respiratory failure, and without 
treatment, leads to death within the first year. Patients with advanced Pompe disease 
or compromised cardiac and/or respiratory function may be at risk of serious 
exacerbation of their undergoing co-morbidity during infusions. 
In the EFC14028 study, the frequency of IARs and hypersensitivity in patients 
increased with higher ADA titers (≥12 800). 
Additionally, IgE ADA positive patients are at increased risk of developing anaphylactic 
reactions upon re-administering the drug. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Labeled in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of SmPC. 
Labeled in section 2 of PL. 
Instructions for treatment administration, pretreatment, decision criteria to have a 
patient move to home infusion and instructions in case of adverse reactions are 
included in SmPC section 4.2. 
Instructions to mitigate the infusion associated reactions are included in SmPC 
section 4.4. 
How to detect signs and symptoms, the need to seek for immediate medical attention 
is labeled in PL section 4. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Additional risk minimization measures 
Educational materials (HCP guide for Immunosurveillance service and Home infusion 
guide). 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Post-Authorization safety study  
Studies LTS13769, EFC14028 (COMET), ACT14132 (mini-COMET) and EFC14462. 
ADA: Anti-Drug Antibody; ERT: Enzyme Replacement Therapy; ETP: Extended Treatment Period; HCP: Healthcare Professional; IAR: 
Infusion Associated Reaction; IgE: Immunoglobulin; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IOPD: Infantile-Onset Pompe Disease; LOPD: Late-Onset 
Pompe Disease; MAH: Marketing Authorization Holder; PAP: Primary Analysis Period; PK: Pharmacokinetic; PL: Package Leaflet; 
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 3   Important potential risk: “Immunogenicity leading to loss of response (High Sustained 
IgG Antibody Titers and/or neutralizing antibodies)” with corresponding risk minimization 
activities and additional pharmacovigilance activities  
Immunogenicity leading to loss of response (High Sustained IgG Antibody Titers and/or 
neutralizing antibodies)
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
To date, the clinical development program for avalglucosidase alfa includes the 
completed Phase 1/2 open label, dose escalation study (TDR12857), completed 
Immunogenicity leading to loss of response (High Sustained IgG Antibody Titers and/or 
neutralizing antibodies)
Risk factors and risk groups  
on 28-Jul-2015, an ongoing long-term safety, PK and exploratory efficacy extension 
study (LTS13769), a Phase 3 randomized, double blinded efficacy and safety study 
(EFC14028) and a phase 2 open-label, ascending dose cohort, safety, PK and 
preliminary efficacy study (ACT14132). The PAP for EFC14028 and ACT14132 studies 
is completed. The ETP for these two studies is ongoing. 
A small number of patients developed ADA peak titers ≥51 200 in the avalglucosidase 
alfa studies. Of the 61 treatment-naïve patients, there were 4 patients (3 in EFC14028 
and 1 in TDR12857/ LTS13769) with ADA titers ≥51 200. 
The presence or absence of endogenous enzyme, reported as CRIM status, is a 
known risk factor. For patients with IOPD, the major risk group is CRIM-negative 
patients who do not produce any endogenous enzyme. If not given prophylactic 
immune tolerance induction, these patients develop high and sustained ADA titers, as 
well as NAb when treated with alglucosidase alfa, which contribute to poor clinical 
outcomes. A retrospective analysis by a lead Investigator of 32 IOPD patients receiving 
alglucosidase alfa showed median titers in CRIM-negative patients of 51 200 at 
24 weeks and 153 600 at 52 weeks whereas median titers in CRIM-positive patients 
were 600 at 24 weeks and 200 at 52 weeks. 
Patients with LOPD produce low levels of endogenous enzyme and are considered 
CRIM-positive. These patients are generally not at risk for developing HSAT and very 
few make high ADA titers which then decrease over time. 
The effects of antibody development on the long-term safety and efficacy of 
avalglucosidase alfa continue under investigation in longer term studies. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures
Labeled in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of SmPC. 
Recommendations and description of the testing to be considered for immunogenicity 
monitoring are labeled in Section 4.4 of SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Additional risk minimization measures 
Educational materials (HCP guide for Immunosurveillance service). 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Studies LTS13769, EFC14028 (COMET), ACT14132 (mini-COMET) and EFC14462. 
ADA: Anti-Drug Antibody; CRIM: Cross-Reactive Immunologic Material; ETP: Extended Treatment Period; HCP: Healthcare Professional; 
HSAT: High and Sustained Antibody Titer; IgE: Immunoglobulin; IOPD: Infantile-Onset Pompe Disease; LOPD: Late-Onset Pompe 
Disease; Nab: Neutralizing Antibody; PAP: Primary Analysis Period; PK: Pharmacokinetic; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 4   Important potential risk: “Medication error in home infusion setting” with corresponding 
risk minimization activities and additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Medication error in home infusion setting
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
It is expected and understood that the HCP administering avalglucosidase alfa in the 
home setting are experienced in the management of the Pompe disease, as well as in 
the management of other ERTs. 
As of 31-May-2021, 15 patients have ever received home infusion in trials (LTS13769 
[N = 2], EFC14028 [N = 11] and ACT14132 [N = 2]). Safety events occurred in 
4 patients. 
One EFC14028 patient receiving avalglucosidase alfa in the home setting experienced 
an IAR. A 32-year-old female patient who began treatment with avalglucosidase alfa in 
Mar-2019, started to receive home infusions in Apr-2020 (first home infusion given at 
week 59 in the open-label period). During the first home infusion and two hours after 
infusion start, the patient had eyelid edema and flushing. Both events were assessed 
as a non-serious AESI and IAR of mild intensity. Therapy with avalglucosidase alfa 
Medication error in home infusion setting
was interrupted and the patient received methylprednisolone and dexchlorpheniramine 
as corrective treatments. The patient recovered from both events the same day. After 
this dose interruption the patient returned to the study site to receive infusions and was 
monitored for any recurring IARs before resuming home infusions again with no 
recurrence of IARs. Six unrelated non-serious AEs in 2 other patients in EFC14028 
and 1 unrelated non-serious AE in 1 patient in LTS13769 were reported). No 
medication error occurred in the setting of home infusion. 
In the “Home infusion report” provided by the EMC expert center, where MYOZYME is 
routinely administered in home setting as standard practice, the data confirmed that 
few IARs were identified associated with the administration of MYOZYME, similarly to 
the hospital set-up. No severe IARs were reported in the home setting, the majority of 
IARs were mild in intensity and did not necessitate advanced clinical intervention. 
However, as for other ERTs for which the home infusion is possible, there is a possible 
risk of medication errors in the home infusion setting, linked to Insufficient 
understanding of the instructions for use of the product (eg, dose calculation, 
reconstitution, administration). Considering these facts, the MAH proposes to include 
“Medication errors in the home infusion setting” as an important potential risk in the 
RMP. 
Risk factors and risk groups  
Unknown 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures
Labeled in sections 4.2 and 6.6 of SmPC. 
Labeled in sections 3 and 5 of PL. 
Decision criteria to have a patient move to home are included in SmPC section 4.2, as 
well as the description of home infusion infrastructure, resources, and procedures. 
The precautions for disposal, instructions for reconstitution and dilution as well as the 
description of infusion preparation and administration are included in SmPC 
section 6.6.
Prescription only medicine.
Additional risk minimization measures 
Educational materials (Home infusion guide). 
Post-authorization safety study 
Studies LTS13769, EFC14028 (COMET), ACT14132 (mini-COMET) and EFC14462. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
AE: Adverse Event; AESI: Adverse Event of Special Interest; ERT: Enzyme Replacement Therapy; IAR: Infusion Associated Reaction; 
HCP: Healthcare Professional; MAH: Marketing Authorization Holder; PL: Package Leaflet; RMP: Risk Management Plan; SmPC: 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Table 5   Important potential risk: “Immune complex related reactions” with corresponding risk 
minimization activities and additional pharmacovigilance activities  
Immune complex related reactions
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
Evidence of immune complexes was not observed in any tissue or organ in mice or 
monkeys. 
As for other ERTs, due to the biological mechanism of immune complex mediated 
reactions, this risk cannot be totally ruled out. 
Neither cases of potential immune-mediated reactions were identified in patients during 
the clinical studies, nor cases contained events consistent with immune mediated 
reactions. 
Considering this lack of cases and the biological plausibility, the MAH has proposed to 
include “Immune complex related reactions”  as an important potential risk in the RMP.  
Immune complex related reactions
Risk factors and risk groups  
Unknown. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures
Not applicable 
Prescription only medicine.
Additional risk minimization measures 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Studies LTS13769, EFC14028 (COMET), ACT14132 (mini-COMET) and EFC14462. 
ERT: Enzyme Replacement Therapy; MAH: Marketing Authorization Holder; RMP: Risk Management Plan. 
Table 6   Missing information: “Use in pregnant and lactating women” with corresponding risk 
minimization activities  
Missing information: Use in pregnant or lactating women
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures
Labeled in section 4.6 of SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Additional risk minimization measure
None
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
AGLU03506 (Pompe Disease Pregnancy Sub-registry).
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 7   Missing information: “Use in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency” with 
corresponding risk minimization activities 
Missing information: Use in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Labeled in sections 4.2 and 5.2 of SmPC. 
Prescription only medicine. 
Additional risk minimization measure
None
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
DIREGC07005 (Pompe Disease Registry).
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C  Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
NEXVIADYME. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
 Table 8   Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
LTS13769 (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
Evaluate long-term safety (including infusion associated reactions and immunogenicity) and PK of repeated biweekly 
infusions of avalglucosidase alfa. 
EFC14028 (COMET) (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
Primary objective is to determine the effect of avalglucosidase alfa treatment on respiratory muscle strength as measured 
by FVC% predicted in the upright position, as compared to alglucosidase alfa.  
Secondary objectives are to determine the safety (including infusion associated reactions and immunogenicity) and effect of 
avalglucosidase alfa treatment on functional endurance (6MWT), inspiratory muscle strength (MIP), expiratory muscle 
strength (MEP), lower extremity muscle strength (HHD), motor function (QMFT), and health-related quality of life (SF-12). 
The main purpose of this ongoing long-term ETP is to provide long-term safety up to 96 weeks, followed by an extended 
open-label long-term follow-up period up to 144 additional weeks. Adverse events, including adverse events of special 
interest and potential immune complex mediated reactions, are collected every 2 weeks. Anti-avalglucosidase alfa 
antibodies (ADAs) (with Nab in ADA-positive patients) are evaluated 1 week following the 1st infusion in ETP, then monthly 
through Week 73, then every 12 weeks up to the end of the follow-up. 
ACT14132 (mini-COMET) (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety profile, including infusion associated reactions and 
immunogenicity of avalglucosidase alfa in patients with IOPD previously treated with alglucosidase alfa. 
EFC14462 (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
The primary objective is to determine the safety, tolerability, and effect of avalglucosidase alfa treatment on survival and 
invasive ventilator-free survival of IOPD patients less than or equal to 6 months of age after 52 weeks of treatment. 
Secondary objectives are to determine the effect of avalglucosidase alfa treatment on survival and invasive ventilator-free 
survival at 12 and 18 months of age, as well the change in LVM-Z score; AIMS score; body length, body weight, and head 
circumference Z scores; and urinary Hex4 at Week 52; to determine the PK profile at week 12 and week 52; to determine 
safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of avalglucosidase alfa. 
DIREGC07005 (Pompe Disease Registry) (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
The Pompe Registry collects and analyzes clinical data regularly collected by clinicians related to the onset, progression, 
and management of Pompe disease including patients treated with avalglucosidase alfa who also report renal and/or 
hepatic insufficiency. 
AGLU03506 (Pompe Disease Pregnancy Sub-registry) (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
The primary objective of this sub-registry is to track pregnancy outcomes, including complications and infant growth, in all 
women with Pompe disease during pregnancy, regardless of whether they receive disease-specific therapy, such as ERT 
with alglucosidase alfa or avalglucosidase alfa. 
This Sub-registry is a multicenter, international, longitudinal, observational, and voluntary program designed to track 
pregnancy outcomes for any pregnant woman enrolled in the Pompe Registry, regardless of whether she is receiving 
disease-specific therapy (such as ERT with alglucosidase alfa or avalglucosidase alfa) and irrespective of the commercial 
product with which she may be treated. 
Post-Authorization Safety Study (Category 3) 
Purpose of the study: 
This study aims at gathering more comprehensive safety information on avalglucosidase alfa in a structured way to further 
characterize the important identified risk of infusion associated reactions, including hypersensitivity and anaphylactic 
reactions, and the important potential risk of medication error in the setting of clinical/ hospital and home infusion. 
6MWT: 6-Minute Walk Test; ADA: Anti-Drug Antibody; AIMS: Alberta Infant Motor Scale; ETP: Extended Treatment Period; ERT: Enzyme 
Replacement Therapy; FVC: Forced Vital Capacity; Hex4: Hexose Tetrasaccharide; HHD: Hand-Held Dynamometry; IOPD: 
Infantile-Onset Pompe disease; LVM-Z: Left Ventricular Mass-Z; MEP: Maximal Expiratory Pressure; MIP: Maximal Inspiratory Pressure; 
Nab: Neutralizing Antibody; PK: Pharmacokinetic; QMFT: Quick Motor Function Test; SF-12: 12-Item Short Form Health Survey. 
