EMA/5527/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004210 
Ngenla (somatrogon) 
An overview of Ngenla and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ngenla and what is it used for? 
Ngenla is a medicine used to treat children and adolescents who are not growing at  the normal rate as 
a result of growth  hormone deficiency (lack of natural growth  hormone). It is given to patients from 3 
years of age. 
Ngenla contains the active substance somatrogon. 
How is Ngenla used? 
Ngenla can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of children and adolescents with  growth hormone deficiency. 
Ngenla is available as an injection in pre-filled pens of different strengths, to  be given under the skin 
once a week. The recommended dose is 0.66  mg per kilogram of body weight  each week, adjusted by 
the doctor if necessary. For patients  over 45 kg who require doses higher than 30 mg the  dose is given 
as two injections. Patients or their caregivers can inject the dose themselves after appropriate training. 
For more information about using Ngenla,  see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ngenla work? 
In healthy patients, growth hormone is released by the pituitary gland (a gland at the base of the 
brain). It is important for growth during childhood and adolescence. Growth hormone also affects how 
the body handles proteins, fat and carbohydrates. The active substance in Ngenla, somatrogon, is a 
version of natural human growth hormone which  has been modified by combining it  with part of 
another human hormone called chorionic gonadotropin in a so-called recombinant hormone. Because 
only a part of this  other hormone is used, it  does not have an effect on the body, but the combination 
lets somatrogon remain active in the  body for a longer period of time than natural growth  hormone so 
injections do not need to be given every day. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
What benefits of Ngenla have been shown in studies? 
Ngenla once a week has been shown to be at least as effective as daily somatropin (a medicine with 
the same structure  as natural growth hormone) in promoting growth. In a main study in 224 pre-
pubertal patients with  growth hormone deficiency the average rate of growth over a year was 10.1  cm 
in those given Ngenla and 9.8  cm in those given somatropin. Other measures of growth,  such as bone 
maturation, were also comparable between children from both groups. 
What are the risks associated with Ngenla? 
The most common side effects with  Ngenla (which  may affect more than 1 in 10  people) are reactions 
at the site of injection, headache, and fever. For the full  list of side effects of Ngenla,  see the package 
leaflet. 
Ngenla must not  be used if the patient  has an active tumour or an acute life-threatening illness. It 
must also not be used for promoting growth in  children with  closed epiphyses (when  the large bones 
have finished growing). For the  full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ngenla authorised in the EU? 
Ngenla injected once per week was shown to be at least as effective as somatropin given by injection 
once per day. The safety profile of Ngenla was also comparable with somatropin, although  injection 
site reactions were more common in patients treated with  Ngenla. Longer-term effects will continue to 
be monitored after marketing. The majority of patients  preferred once-weekly treatment compared 
with  daily injections. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that  the benefits of Ngenla are greater than  its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ngenla? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Ngenla have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ngenla are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Ngenla are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ngenla 
Ngenla received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 14 February 2022. 
Further information on Ngenla can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ngenla  
This overview was last updated in  02-2022.   
Ngenla (somatrogon)  
EMA/5527/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
