21 July 2016 
EMA/405340/2017 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Nimenrix  
meningococcal group a, c, w135 and y conjugate vaccine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002226/P46/049 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 20176. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 6 
1.1. Steps taken for the assessment ............................................................................. 8 
2. Summary of data submitted .................................................................... 9 
3. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................. 26 
Page 2/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Menactra: Meningococcal (Groups A, C, Y and W-135) Polysaccharide, Diphtheria Toxoid Conjugate 
Vaccine 
Page 5/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
The company states: 
Individuals with anatomic or functional asplenia, late complement deficiency or properdin deficiency 
are known to be at increased risk of severe infections caused by encapsulated bacteria. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis (N. meningitidis) and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) account 
for more than half of the bacterial infections in asplenic individuals and the lifetime risk of infection is 
higher in children than in adults.  
Pneumococcal vaccine is the most commonly used vaccine for asplenic or hyposplenic patients, but 
meningococcal and Hib vaccines are also recommended by most authorities. A substantial decrease in 
the incidence of episodes of bacteremia was observed within the past few decades; this is at least 
partly due to the aforementioned immunization strategies. 
The immunogenicity of the meningococcal C conjugate vaccine in asplenic individuals has been 
reported. There are no reports on the immunogenicity of the quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate 
vaccines in the paediatric population at increased risk for meningococcal disease. 
The current product: 
The MenACWY-TT vaccine developed by GSK Biologicals is a quadrivalent vaccine (MenACWY-TT) for 
prevention of invasive infections with N. meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y, using Tetanus 
Toxoid (TT) as the carrier. This vaccine was granted a marketing authorisation on 20 April 2012 by the 
European Commission for the active immunisation of individuals from the age of 12 months and above 
against invasive meningococcal disease caused by N. meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y [European 
Commission, 2012] and is currently licensed in more than 60 countries including all European Union 
Member States, Iceland, Norway, Canada and Australia. Cumulative post-marketing exposure to 
Nimenrix since launch up to April 2015 is estimated to be 1,711,167 subjects. 
Nimenrix has the following indication (from section 4.1 of the SPC): 
Nimenrix is indicated for active immunisation of individuals from the age of 12 months and above 
against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by Neisseria meningitidis group A, C, W-135 and Y. 
Page 6/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nimenrix has the following posology (from section 4.2 of the SPC): 
Posology 
Nimenrix should be used in accordance with available official recommendations. 
Primary vaccination: 
A single 0.5 ml dose of the reconstituted vaccine is used for immunisation. 
Booster vaccination: 
Nimenrix may be given in subjects who have previously been vaccinated with a plain polysaccharide  
meningococcal vaccine (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Nimenrix in children under 12 months of age has not yet been established.  
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Immunisation should be carried out by intramuscular injection only, preferably into the deltoid muscle. 
In children 12 to 23 months of age, the vaccine may also be administered in the anterolateral part of 
the thigh (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
For instructions on reconstitution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
Page 7/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
CHMP conclusion: 
22 April 2016 
23 May 2016 
27 June 2016 
21 July 2016 
Page 8/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Summary of data submitted  
The study submitted: 
This study is a phase III, open, controlled study to evaluate the immunogenicity of MenACWY-TT when 
given as 1 and 2 doses in asplenic children or in children having complement deficiencies i.e. at risk 
subjects from 1 to less than 18 years. 
The study included a group of age-matched healthy subjects in order to compare the immunogenicity 
of the MenACWY-TT vaccine in an at risk population to that of the general, healthy pediatric population 
one month after each meningococcal vaccination. 
The vaccination schedule (2 doses of MenACWY-TT administered 2 months apart) was aligned with the 
recent Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendation for at risk groups. 
This report presents all immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity results obtained from Dose 1 (Month 
0) up to study end (Month 8), except for immunogenicity results for Tetanus Toxoid (TT) which are 
currently not available owing to serology delays. These results will be presented in a separate annex 
report which will be available at the end of 2016. 
The company has reviewed the immunogenicity and safety results and has concluded that they should 
be reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics and will be included in an upcoming Type II 
variation. 
Page 9/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Scientific discussion  
Study title: A phase III, open, controlled study to evaluate immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 
MenACWY-TT conjugate vaccine administered intramuscularly to at risk subjects from 1 to less than 18 
years and to an age-matched control group of healthy subjects. 
Study code: 115524 (MENACWY-TT-084) 
Study design: a phase III, multi-centre, open, controlled study with two parallel groups 
Study initiation date: 10-Sep-2012 
Study completion date: 03-March-2015 
Data lock point: 07-March-2016 
Date of report: Final: 11-April-2016 
The study was conducted in the Czech Republic (2 sites) and the USA (14 sites) 
The company states that the ‘study was performed according to the principles of GCP including the 
archiving of essential documents’. 
Assessor’s comment: the company has submitted: 
•  A summary list of ethics committees 
•  A list of study investigators (documents signed and dated) 
• 
Evidence of audit of the study at one site in the Czech Republic (audit dated Sept 2013) and 
one site in USA (audit dated Aug 2013) by GSK’s department for Clinical Development Quality 
Assurance (document signed and dated Jan 2016). 
•  A sample case report form 
This is acceptable. 
The company took advice from ACIP (Centre for Disease Control, USA): a protocol update was done so 
that children <2 years of age with functional or anatomic asplenia were not enrolled in the study. Only 
children <2 years of age with complement component deficiencies could have been enrolled. No 
children <2 years of age (at risk or healthy) were enrolled at any time during the course of the study. 
There were 3 amendments to the protocol between Mar 2012 and Apr 2014; one was on storage 
conditions, one was on saline diluent and one was to accommodate an ACIP request, as above. There 
were also administrative amendments. 
Page 10/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population 
A male or female 1 to 17 years of age at the time of the first vaccination. 
At-risk subjects were enrolled first. For each at risk subject enrolled, an age-matched healthy subject 
was enrolled. Age matching was performed by the investigator.  
At risk subjects were defined as subjects with an increased risk for meningococcal disease. This 
included subjects with: 
• 
• 
anatomic asplenia, or 
some degree of functional asplenia (e.g. sickle cell anaemia, histiocytosis, coeliac disease), or 
•  All individuals suffering one of the diseases listed in Table 5 (except sickle cell disease) and for 
which the investigator could assess a reduced splenic function by means of an appropriate 
technique (scinti-scan, pitted erythrocyte counting, or Howell-Jolly body detection 
•  Complement deficiencies (e.g., C5-C9, properdin, factor H or factor D). 
Individuals with sickle cell disease were eligible without assessment of the splenic function as sickle-
cell disease is invariably associated with severe splenic dysfunction [reference submitted]. 
Page 11/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics 
The summary of demographics characteristics of subjects included in the ATP cohort for 
immunogenicity is presented in Table 18: 
In this cohort : 
• 
The mean age of the subjects At-risk was 12.3 years (range 2 t0 17yrs). The mean age of 
Healthy subjects was 11.6 years (range 4 to 17yrs). 
•  52.5% in the At-risk group and 47.5% in the Healthy group were males. 
•  77.5% in the At-risk group and 90.0% in the Healthy group were of White -Caucasian / 
European Heritage. 
Assessor’s comment: the ‘at risk’ and ‘healthy’ groups appear broadly similar. The age range of 
2 to 17yrs is appropriate for the study. In general terms, the demographics are acceptable yet it 
may have been expected to have had a higher percentage of subjects with African heritage to 
more fully represent those with sickle cell disease. 
Note to company: for proposed submission of the type II variation, the company is requested to 
provide information on the underlying cause hyposplenism and / or complement deficiency. 
Page 12/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intervention 
This was a phase III, open-label, controlled, multi-centre study with two parallel groups. Duration of 
the study was 8 months. 
Vaccination schedule: 2 vaccine doses of MenACWY-TT for each subject: 1 dose at Visit 1 and 1 dose at 
Visit 3. Vaccinations were administered intramuscularly. 
The candidate vaccine to be used has been developed and manufactured by GSK Biologicals. The 
vaccine was labelled and packed according to applicable regulatory requirements. 
Page 13/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on the dosage and administration of the study vaccine is provided in Table 7: 
The vaccine/product recipients were to be observed closely for at least 30 minutes, with appropriate 
medical treatment readily available in case of a rare anaphylactic reaction following the administration 
of vaccine/product. 
Blood sampling: 3 blood samples were to be taken from each subject: 
•  At Visit 1 before administration of the study vaccine 
•  At Visit 2 at 1 month after the first vaccine dose 
•  At Visit 4 at 1 month after the second vaccine dose 
Administration of licensed inactivated influenza vaccines was allowed as per local recommendations 
throughout the study. Any other nationally recommended vaccine should have been administered 
outside a 30 day window before or after the administration of a study vaccine. 
Comparator 
Control: active control (healthy subjects to be vaccinated with MenACWY-TT). 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
• 
To evaluate the immunogenicity of 1 and 2 doses of MenACWY-TT administered to at risk 
subjects compared to age-matched healthy subjects in terms of serum bactericidal assay using 
rabbit complement (rSBA) and serum bactericidal assay using human complement (hSBA) 
vaccine response rates for N. meningitides serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y. 
Secondary objectives 
• 
• 
To evaluate the immunogenicity of 1 and 2 doses of MenACWY-TT administered to at risk 
subjects compared to age-matched healthy subjects. 
To evaluate the safety and reactogenicity of 1 and 2 doses of MenACWY-TT administered to at 
risk subjects compared to age-matched healthy subjects in terms of solicited symptoms, 
unsolicited symptoms, Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and New Onset Of Chronic Illnesses 
(NOCIs). 
Page 14/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The target enrolment was 100 subjects (50 subjects in the At-risk group and 50 subjects in the 
Healthy group) to reach approximately 90 evaluable subjects for the statistical analysis (45 subjects in 
each group), assuming 10% drop out of subjects throughout the study. 
Allocation 
The treatment number allocation at the investigator site was performed using Randomization System 
on Internet (SBIR). The treatment numbers were allocated by dose. 
The randomization system determined the treatment number to be used for the subject. Each 
treatment number should have been recorded in the eCRF on the Vaccine Administration screen. 
Age matching was to be performed by the investigator. At risk subjects were to be enrolled first. For 
each at risk subject enrolled, an age-matched healthy subject was to be enrolled. This matching of 
subjects was preferably done within each centre; however, if necessary, matching of subjects across 
centre was allowed by the sponsor. A healthy subject could only be enrolled if he/she could be age-
matched with an at-risk subject who was not yet matched previously with another healthy subject.  
The following age strata were to be used for the age-matching procedure: 
 1 -5 year 
 6 -10 year 
 1 1- 17 year 
This enrolment strategy resulted in the same number of subjects enrolled in the At-risk group and the 
Healthy group. 
Note that the enrolment was to be frozen as soon as the target number of 100 subjects was reached. 
Assessor’s comment: treatment allocation was non-randomised in a 1:1 ratio 
Page 15/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maintenance of subjects in study 
The number of subjects vaccinated, completed and withdrawn with reason for withdrawal is presented 
in Table 16 and Table 17: 
42/43 in the At-risk group and 41/43 in the Healthy group completed the active phase of the study, 
while 3 subjects were withdrawn: 
•  One due to non-serious adverse events 
•  One due to non-compliance with study procedures 
•  One due to falling out of site coverage 
All subjects completed the ESFU phase of the study. 
Assessor’s comment: the low number of subjects who did not complete the study is noted; the 
low number is acceptable. 
Page 16/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding 
This study was open because all subjects received the same treatment. 
The laboratory in charge of the laboratory testing was blinded to the study group and codes were used 
to link the subject and study to each sample. 
Assessor’s comment: no additional comment 
Measurement 
The following table summarises the immunogenicity measurements: 
In case of insufficient blood sample volume to perform assays for all antibodies, the samples were to 
be analyzed according to priority ranking provided in Table 9: 
Assessor’s comment: no additional comment 
Page 17/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Local and general adverse events were solicited, as described.  
Safety laboratory tests were assayed, as described. 
Intensity, causality and outcome of adverse events were documented, as described. 
AEs of specific interest for safety monitoring included the occurrence of: 
•  NOCIs such as autoimmune disorders, asthma, type 1 diabetes and allergies, 
•  GBS (to be reported as SAE), 
•  Meningococcal disease (to be reported as SAE). 
Assessor’s comment: no additional comment 
Page 18/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
The statistical analyses were performed using the SAS ® software (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, US). 
Primary end-point: 
Immunogenicity with respect to components of the investigational vaccine – rSBA and hSBA vaccine 
response to meningococcal antigens (MenA, MenC, MenW-135 and MenY) at one month after the first 
and the second vaccine dose. 
Secondary endpoints 
Immunogenicity with respect to components of the investigational vaccine (on secondary readouts) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Percentage of subjects with rSBA-MenA, rSBA-MenC, rSBA-MenW-135 and rSBA-MenY titres ≥ 
1:8, ≥ 1:128 and Geometric Mean Titres (GMTs) just before and after the first vaccine dose, 
and after the second vaccine dose. 
Percentage of subjects with hSBA-MenA, hSBA-MenC, hSBA-MenW-135 and hSBA-MenY titres 
≥ 1:4, ≥ 1:8 and GMTs just before and after the first vaccine dose, and after the second 
vaccine dose. 
Percentage of subjects with anti-PSA, anti-PSC, anti-PSW-135 and anti-PSY concentrations ≥ 
0.3 μg/ml, ≥ 2.0 μg/ml and GMCs just before and after the first vaccine dose, and after the 
second vaccine dose. 
Percentage of subjects with anti-TT concentrations ≥ 0.1 IU/ml and GMCs just before and after 
the first vaccine dose, and after the second vaccine dose. 
Clinical safety, as described 
Study cohorts analysed were: 
• 
• 
• 
The Total Vaccinated cohort (TVC) that included all vaccinated subjects 
The According-to-protocol Cohort for Safety 
The According-to-protocol cohort for immunogenicity 
6 subjects were eliminated from the ATP cohort for immunogenicity: 
•  1 subject due to administration of concomitant vaccine(s) forbidden in the protocol (also 
eliminated from the ATP cohort for safety), 
•  1 subject due to non-compliance with the blood sampling schedule, 
•  1 subject did not receive both vaccine doses, 
•  3 subjects being the age-matched subjects of other 3 subjects who were eliminated from the 
ATP cohort of immunogenicity. 
Assessor’s comment: the numbers eliminated for protocol deviations are small and ought not 
affect overall conclusions 
Page 19/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome (i) - immunogenicity 
Meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y bactericidal vaccine response, according-to-protocol 
analysis 
rSBA vaccine response rates: in the At-risk group, the rSBA vaccine response rates ranged from 92.5% 
- 100% after the first vaccine dose for all 4 serogroups. All subjects were considered vaccine 
responders after the second vaccine dose for all serogroups. In the Healthy group, the rSBA vaccine 
response rates ranged from 97.5% - 100% after the first vaccine dose for all 4 serogroups. All subjects 
were considered vaccine responders after the second vaccine dose for all serogroups. Results are 
summarised in the following tables: 
Page 20/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA vaccine response rates: 
• 
• 
In the At-risk group, one month after the first vaccine dose, the hSBA vaccine response rates 
were 69.7%, 77.1%, 55.6% and 60.5% for serogroups A, C, W and Y respectively. After the 
second vaccine dose, these rates were 84.8%, 100%, 80.6% and 73.0%. 
In the Healthy group, one month after the first vaccine dose, the hSBA vaccine response rates 
were 69.7%, 60.6%, 65.6% and 76.3% for serogroups A, C, W and Y respectively. After the 
second vaccine dose, these rates were 75.0%, 85.3%, 77.4% and 73.0%. 
Results are summarised in the following tables: 
Page 22/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comment: results are broadly comparable for ‘at risk’ and ‘healthy’ controls though it 
is noted that those ‘at risk’ tend to return lower percentages than the ‘healthy’ controls.  
Page 23/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome (ii) - safety 
The primary analysis of safety was performed on the TVC. As less than 10% of the enrolled subjects 
were eliminated from the ATP cohort for safety, a second analysis on the ATP cohort for safety was not 
performed. 
•  No fatal SAEs were reported during the course of this study. 
• 
Five non-fatal SAEs were reported during the course of this study. 
•  No reported AEs led to premature discontinuation of study vaccine and/or study. 
•  No NOCIs were reported from first vaccination up to study end. 
Solicited local symptoms: during the 4-day post-vaccination period (overall/subject) 
• 
• 
In the 1-5 years age stratum: pain, redness and swelling were equally reported by 66.7% of 
subjects (n/N: 2/3) in the At-risk group and pain was the only local symptom reported in the 
Healthy group, by 33.3% of the subjects (n/N: 1/3). 
In the 6-17 years age stratum: pain was the most frequently reported local symptom, reported 
by 80% of subjects (n/N: 32/40) in the At-risk group and by 71.8% of subjects (n/N: 28/39) in 
the Healthy group. 
Solicited general symptoms: during the 4-day post-vaccination period (overall/subject) 
• 
• 
In the 1-5 years age stratum: drowsiness was the most frequently reported general symptom 
in the At-risk group, reported by 100% of subjects in the At-risk group (n/N: 3/3) and 
drowsiness and irritability was the most frequently reported general symptom in the Healthy 
group, reported by 66.7% of subjects (n/N: 2/3). 
In the 6-17 years age stratum: fatigue was the most frequently reported general symptom in 
both groups, reported by 52.5% of subjects (n/N: 21/40) in the At-risk group and by 35.9% of 
subjects (n/N: 14/39) in the Healthy group. 
Unsolicited symptoms: during the 31-day post-vaccination period, at least one unsolicited symptom 
was reported by: 
•  16.3% of subjects (n/N: 7/43) in both the At-risk and Healthy group post first vaccine dose. 
•  7.0% of subjects (n/N: 3/43) in the At-risk and by 18.6% of the subjects (n/N:8/43) in the 
Healthy group post second vaccine dose. 
Serious adverse events: 
• 
From first vaccine dose to study end 4 subjects in the At-risk group and 1 in the Healthy group 
reported SAEs (assessed by the investigator as not causally related to study vaccination). 
•  No NOCIs were reported from first vaccine dose up to study end. 
Assessor’s comment: both solicited and unsolicited adverse events appear to be more common 
in the ‘at risk’ group; those symptoms reported are considered to be amenable to simple clinical 
management. 
Page 24/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion 
Immunogenicity 
The observed meningococcal bactericidal vaccine response rates in terms of rSBA antibodies for each 
of the four serogroups were: 
•  At one month post first vaccine dose: at least 92.5% (MenC) in the At-risk group and at least 
97.5% (MenA, MenC and MenW-135) in the Healthy group. 
•  At one month post second vaccine dose: 100% in both the At-risk and Healthy group. 
The observed meningococcal bactericidal vaccine response rates in terms of hSBA antibodies for each 
of the four serogroups were: 
•  At one month post first vaccine dose: at least 55.6% (MenW-135) in the At-risk group and at 
least 60.6% (MenC) in the Healthy group. 
•  At one month post second vaccine dose: at least 73.0% (MenY) in both the At-risk and Healthy 
group. 
Safety 
Clinical safety analysis has not revealed new safety concerns. 
Assessor’s comment: not all data are submitted within the current exercise. With this caveat, it 
is considered that clinical efficacy and safety results for the ‘at risk’ and ‘healthy’ groups are 
broadly similar. 
Note to company: the current document is a presentation of results with general comment only 
and should not be interpreted as a formal assessment or acceptance of results submitted. 
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Overall conclusion 
Individuals with anatomic or functional asplenia, late complement deficiency or properdin deficiency 
are known to be at increased risk of severe infections caused by encapsulated bacteria. Neisseria 
meningitidis causes one of the more common bacterial infections in asplenic individuals with potentially 
devastating consequences.  
The immunogenicity of the meningococcal C conjugate vaccine in asplenic individuals has been 
reported previously. This is (apparently) the first report on the immunogenicity of a quadrivalent 
meningococcal conjugate vaccine in the paediatric population at increased risk for meningococcal 
disease. 
The company has reviewed the immunogenicity and safety results and has concluded that they should 
be reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics and will be included in an upcoming Type II 
variation. 
It is agreed that the company should proceed to submit data from the current study (once all data are  
available) with a view to adding information to the SPC by means of a type II variation procedure in 
accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
  PAM fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
  PAM not fulfilled (not all commitments fulfilled) and further action, as 
specified below, required by <date>.  
Page 26/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
