Assessment report 
Nimenrix 
Common Name: Meningococcal group A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine. 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002226 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Manufacturers ................................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 25 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 27 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 66 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 76 
2.8. Significance of paediatric studies ........................................................................ 80 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................. 80 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 80 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 82 
Nimenrix 
Page 2/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADH 
AH 
CDAP 
EDAC 
EDTA 
FPLC 
1H-NMR  
HDPE 
HPLC 
ICH  
Kd 
Lf 
MALLS   
MEK 
MenA    
MenAAH  
MenACWY-TT 
MenC 
MenCC   
MenCAH  
MenPS   
MenW   
MenY 
MS 
MSD  
Mw 
PETG 
Ph.Eur   
PS 
PVDF 
QC 
Rw 
TSB 
TT 
WFI 
WHO 
WS 
Adipic acid dihydrazide 
Acid dihydrazide 
1-cyano-4-dimethylaminopyridinium tetrafluoroborate 
1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethyl-aminopropyl) cabodiimide) 
Ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid  
Fast protein liquid chromatography  
Proton nuclear magnetic resonance  
High density polyethylene  
High Performance Liquid Chromatography  
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use  
Distribution coefficient 
Limes flocculations 
Multiple angle laser light scattering 
Methylethylketone 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup A 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup A polysaccharide coupled to an adipic AH  
Nimenrix 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C 
Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C polysaccharide coupled to an adipic AH 
Neisseria meningitidis polysaccharides (serogroups A, C, W, Y) 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y 
Master seed 
Molecular size distribution 
Molecular weight 
Polyethylene terephthalate copolyester 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Polysaccharide 
Polyvinyldiene fluoride 
Quality control 
Root mean square  
Trypticase Soy Broth 
Tetanus toxoid 
Water for injections 
World Health Organization  
Working seed 
Nimenrix 
Page 3/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. submitted on 1 March 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Nimenrix, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 February 2008.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: immunization against invasive meningococcal 
diseases. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0278/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0278/2011 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status  
The applicant requested the active substance Meningococcal polysaccharide serogroups A, C, W-135 
and Y conjugates with tetanus toxoid as carrier protein, contained in the above medicinal product, to 
be considered as a new active substance in itself. Please see Appendix 1. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 19 July 2007. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Nimenrix 
Page 4/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer(s) of the active substance 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. 
89, rue de l'Institut 
B-1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
GlaxoSmithKine Biologicals Kft. 
HU-2100 Gödöllö 
Táncsics Mihály út 82. 
Hungary 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. 
Parc de la Noire Epine 
20, rue Fleming  
B-1300 Wavre 
Belgium 
All relevant sites are located in EU and underwent GMP inspections with a satisfactory outcome within 
the last 3 years. 
Manufacturer(s) of the finished product 
All relevant sites are located in EU and underwent GMP inspections with a satisfactory outcome within 
the last 3 years. 
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. 
89, rue de l'Institut 
B-1330 Rixensart 
Belgium 
Nimenrix 
Page 5/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer responsible for import and batch release in the European 
Economic Area 
n/a 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur:  Karsten Bruins Slot 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 01 March 2011. 
The procedure started on 23 March 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 June 2011. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 June 
2011.  
  During the meeting on 21 July 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 25 July 
2011  
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 13 October 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 25 November 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 12-15 December 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 25 January 2012. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 2 February 2012. 
  During the meeting on 16 February 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Nimenrix. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Neisseria meningitidis is a Gram-negative diplococcus that is a strictly human pathogen. Organisms 
belonging to this species are the most common cause of bacterial meningitis world-wide, with 
approximately 1.2 million cases per year causing an estimated 135,000 deaths. The species is also an 
important cause of other invasive bacterial infections including meningococcaemia. The meningococci 
Nimenrix 
Page 6/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have an outermost polysaccharide capsule that protects the organism from complement-mediated 
clearing mechanisms and 13 meningococcal serogroups are currently recognised, based on the 
immunochemistry of the capsular polysaccharides. 
The precise mechanism of immunity to meningococci is unknown, although it is thought to involve a 
complex interaction between innate and acquired immunity. Humoral immunity is thought to play a 
central role in host defence against N. meningitidis. Once an individual has become colonised with 
Neisseria meningitidis, the likelihood of acquiring invasive meningococcal disease depends on the 
virulence of the particular organism, host factors affecting innate susceptibility and the presence or 
absence of serum antibodies capable of activating complement-mediated bacteriolysis. In contrast to 
carriage isolates, which belong to diverse lineages that rarely cause disease, most invasive disease 
isolates belong to a limited number of hyper-virulent lineages.  
The risk of meningococcal disease is inversely related to age with 49% of cases occurring in children 
two years and younger in the United States and in children of four years and younger in Europe. Older 
children, adolescents and adults are more often affected during epidemics. Asplenia, complement 
deficiencies and people living in close proximity to others (e.g. college/university students and military 
recruits) have an increased risk of developing meningococcal disease. The incidence of meningococcal 
disease varies according to geographic location with the highest rates in sub-Saharan Africa where 
serogroup A disease is prevalent and disease incidence as high as 1 000/100 000 inhabitants/year can 
occur. The disease is endemic (incidence: 1-5/100 000 inhabitants/year) in both industrialised and 
developing countries, but in developing countries endemic levels as high as 10-25/100 000 
inhabitants/year can occur. 
Meningococcal groups A, B, C, W-135 and Y are the most common causes of invasive meningococcal 
disease worldwide and groups A, B and C account for the vast majority. The dominant groups which 
cause disease in Europe are B followed by C. The relative importance of the different groups fluctuates.  
For example, since 2000, epidemics due to group W-135 have been reported. 
Plain polysaccharide vaccines have been available for protection against MenA, C, W-135 and Y for 
several decades but they are poorly or not at all immunogenic in young children, they do not elicit 
immune memory and they can cause hyporesponsiveness to repeated doses especially for group C. 
Conjugate vaccines that employ appropriate protein carrier molecules have the potential to overcome 
these problems. Hence, two conjugated quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccines are already 
approved in some countries. These are Menactra (conjugated to diphtheria toxoid; authorised for use 
in 2 to 55 year-olds in the USA, Canada and Gulf States) and Menveo (conjugated to CRM197; 
authorised for use from 11 years of age in the EU, 11 to 55 years in Canada and Australia and 2 to 55 
years in the US).  
The Applicant has developed a tetravalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine where the final 
formulation contains 5 µg of each polysaccharide of serogroup A, C, W-135 and Y coupled to tetanus 
toxoid (total content per dose, 44 µg). Serogroup A and C are conjugated to tetanus toxoid with an 
adipic dihydrazide (AH) spacer while MenW-135 and MenY polysaccharides are conjugated directly. The 
vaccine’s code name is MenACWY-TT. The tradename is “Nimenrix”.  
MenACWY-TT is a non adsorbed freeze-dried preparation presented as monodose vials to be 
reconstituted with a diluent (saline solution). The diluent is presented in glass ampoules or in glass 
syringes. The final reconstituted vaccine is preservative free and is presented as a liquid monodose for 
intramuscular injection. 
The four purified polysaccharide bulks for MenA, MenC, MenW135 and MenY are identical to those used 
for the production of other meningococcal vaccine (EU – Mutual Recognition). The purified tetanus 
Nimenrix 
Page 7/84
 
 
 
 
 
toxoid that is used for the production of the carrier is the same as the one used for other vaccines that 
are registered in Europe through centralised procedure and through mutual recognition procedure. 
The dose of polysaccharide and the conjugation methodologies (with/without a spacer) were initially 
selected from a series of early studies with experimental formulations followed by two dose- and 
formulation-finding studies in young adults and in children aged from 12 months up to 5 years that 
each incorporated study groups that received the final version of the vaccine.  
About the product 
MenACWY-TT belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic groups of meningococcal, tetravalent conjugated 
purified polysaccharides antigens (ATC code: J07AH08). The role of serum antibody in protection 
against meningococcal disease was demonstrated in the early 1900s, with first successful treatment of 
meningococcal meningitis with serum therapy. Though polysaccharide vaccines have been available for 
serogroups A, C, W135 and Y for years, these vaccines have well-known limitations including poor 
immunogenicity in young children, the inability to elicit immune memory against the capsule of the 
pathogen and hyporesponsiveness following repeated doses of vaccine when sustained protection is 
needed. Conjugate vaccines can overcome these limitations and effective conjugate vaccines have 
been successful in preventing meningitis and other invasive bacterial infections: the chemical 
conjugation of the polysaccharide to a protein carrier converts the T-cell independent response into a 
T-cell dependent anti-polysaccharide antibody response. The T-cell dependent response elicited by 
conjugated vaccines can occur in children less than 2 years of age and results in a strong anamnestic 
(memory) response to a booster dose of the vaccine.  
Type of Application and aspects on development 
CHMP Scientific Advice was sought in 2007 regarding the proposal to base the submission on the 
demonstration of immunological non-inferiority of the candidate vaccine when compared to licensed 
meningococcal vaccines. A serum bactericidal activity (SBA) assay based on the CDC protocol and 
using baby rabbit serum as the source of complement was proposed as the primary immunogenicity 
endpoint. The CHMP considered this approach acceptable.  
Agreement was reached for the following primary endpoints: 
For subjects aged ≥ 2 years the primary immunogenicity endpoint was to be vaccine response to 
MenA, MenC, W-135 and Y defined as: 
- Post vaccination rSBA titres ≥ 32 for initially seronegative subjects (i.e. pre-vaccination rSBA titre < 
8) 
- At least a 4-fold increase in rSBA titre from pre- to post-vaccination for initially seropositive subjects 
(i.e. pre-vaccination rSBA titre ≥ 8) 
For subjects < 2 years of age the primary immunogenicity endpoint was to be an immune response to 
MenA, C, W-135 and Y defined as rSBA antibody titre ≥ 8. 
Nimenrix is indicated for active immunization of individuals from the age of 12 months and above 
against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and 
Y. 
Nimenrix 
Page 8/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals’ MenACWY-TT vaccine consists of four polysaccharides conjugated to a 
tetanus toxoid protein carrier, which are coded MenAAH-TT, MenCAH-TT, MenW135-TT and MenY-TT. 
The PS-TT conjugates consist of the purified polysaccharides of Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, 
W135 and Y respectively, conjugated to tetanus toxoid as a carrier protein. The vaccine’s code name is 
MenACWY-TT. The tradename is “Nimenrix”.  
MenACWY-TT is a non adsorbed freeze-dried preparation presented as monodose vials to be 
reconstituted with a diluent (saline solution). The diluent is presented in glass ampoules or in glass 
syringes. The final reconstituted vaccine is preservative free and is presented as a liquid monodose for 
intramuscular injection. 
The four purified polysaccharide bulks for MenA, MenC, MenW135 and MenY are identical to those used 
for the production of other meningococcal vaccine (EU – Mutual Recognition). The purified tetanus 
toxoid that is used for the production of the carrier is the same as the one used for other vaccines that 
are registered in Europe through centralised procedure and through mutual recognition procedure. 
Composition of the MenACWY-TT lyophilised vaccine: 
The active ingredients are:  
Neisseria meningitidis group A polysaccharide1 
Neisseria meningitidis group C polysaccharide1 
Neisseria meningitidis group W-135 polysaccharide1 
Neisseria meningitidis group Y polysaccharide1 
5 micrograms 
5 micrograms 
5 micrograms 
5 micrograms 
1conjugated to tetanus toxoid carrier protein 
44 micrograms 
The excipients are sucrose and trometamol 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The tetravalent MenACWY conjugate vaccine consists of polysaccharides derived from capsular 
polysaccharides of Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and Y, each conjugated to the tetanus 
toxoid (TT) carrier protein. 
During clinical development, three different generations of the vaccine were developed and tested. In 
first generation candidate vaccine the polysaccharides were directly conjugated to tetanus toxoid. In 
the 2nd generation, the MenA polysaccharide is first coupled to a spacer and then conjugated to TT. In 
the 3rd generation both the MenA and the MenC polysaccharides are first coupled to a spacer and then 
conjugated to TT. The production facilities are major manufacturing sites for GSK Biologicals’ vaccines 
and have current GMP certificates.  
Manufacture 
In general, the manufacturing process for the 4 polysaccharides, tetanus toxoid, and conjugation 
procedures are well described and follow previously licensed procedures. Several minor changes have 
been made to the manufacture of commercial material when compared to the clinical trial consistency 
lots. These changes have been validated by comparison of process, validation and characterisation 
data. Some differences between clinical and commercial material have been detected and were 
Nimenrix 
Page 9/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
explained by further consideration of the biochemical data, and also by considering a clinical trial in 
which clinical and commercial product were clinically compared. 
Preparation of polysaccharide MSB and WS: Master and Working Seed lots were prepared using culture 
media free of animal derived substances. The seed lots are also used in the manufacture of another 
authorised vaccine. Description of the producer strains, seed lot system and control testing is 
adequate. 
A new Working seed and new building have been introduced in the manufacture of tetanus toxoid. The 
seed banks and materials used during manufacture are well described, and are not of animal origin. 
Satisfactory quality control testing are in place and satisfactory stability data and storage conditions 
have been described. 
Manufacturing process of purified polysaccharide bulk 
The process consists of four stages: fermentation, inactivation, purification and drying. A virulent strain 
of Neisseria meningitidis serogroup A, C, W or Y is grown in a fermentor under regulated conditions.  
After inactivation, the culture is treated with the appropriate reagent solution to precipitate the 
polysaccharide and then recovered by filtration. The polysaccharides are selectively dissolved and 
further purified by selective alcohol precipitation. The precipitate is vacuum dried and kept at -70°C. 
The manufacturing process of purified polysaccharide bulk is claimed to be identical to the one 
described for other already approved meningococcal vaccine. 
Manufacturing process of the purified TT 
The process consists of three main stages: fermentation, detoxification and purification. The 
reconstituted Clostridium tetani strain is grown in a fermentor under regulated conditions. Following 
the growth of the bacteria, the toxin is released into the culture through natural lysis.  
After separation from cells and concentration, the toxin is subjected to detoxification post an 
ultrafiltration step; the TT is purified by selective precipitation. The purified TT is sterile filtered and 
stored at 2-8°C. Stability has been demonstrated by real-time stability data. 
Before  coupling,  the  TT  is  further  purified.  Further  purification  includes  column  chromatography.  The 
product is clarified after the purification and ultrafiltered.  The purified ultrafiltered TT is sterile filtered 
and stored until coupling. The tetanus toxoid bulk used comply with relevant aspects of WHO (TRS n° 
800)  and  Ph.  Eur.  requirements  on  bulk  tetanus  toxoid  (Ph.  Eur.  0452)  and  it  is  identical  to  the  one 
described in other vaccines approved via centralised and mutual recognition procedure. 
Manufacturing process of the polysaccharide – tetanus toxoid conjugate (MenA-TT and MenC-TT) 
The  process  consists  of  five  main  steps:  the  tetanus  toxoid  (TT)  further  purification  (as  described 
above),  the  MenA/MenC  sizing,  the  MenA/MenC  activation  via  cyanate  ester  formation  followed  by 
derivatisation with a spacer and conjugation to TT by activation of carboxylic moiety. The conjugate is 
finally purified by column chromatography and sterile filtered. The manufacturing process of MenAAH-TT 
and MenCAH-TT is similar to the one described for Hib-TT of other authorised conjugated vaccines. 
Nimenrix 
Page 10/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing process of the polysaccharide – tetanus toxoid conjugate (MenW-TT and MenY-TT) 
The process consists of three stages: the tetanus toxoid (TT) further purification (as described above), 
the MenW/MenY sizing and the MenW/MenY coupling to TT via cyanate ester formation. The conjugate 
is finally purified by column chromatography and sterile filtered.  
The manufacturing process of MenW-TT and MenY-TT is similar to the one described for MenC-TT. 
-Changes  from  clinical  consistency  lots  to  commercial  lots  were  a  change  in  the  manufacturing 
facility of the purified TT. The applicant has satisfactorily presented data to support the changes. 
The description of the fermentation and purification process of the meningococcal polysaccharides and 
the corresponding in-process and release testing is adequate. 
 
Process Controls 
The control testing of the Master and Working seeds is considered acceptable. Compendial (Ph.Eur. or 
USP) specifications are in place for most of the raw materials used in manufacturing process of the 
drug substances. Appropriate process controls are conducted during the production of the drug 
substances and their intermediates. In addition, release control programs are carried out on the 
intermediates (i.e. the purified polysaccharide, the sized polysaccharide, the derivatised 
polysaccharide, the purified tetanus toxoid, the purified ultrafiltered TT and purified and 
chromatografied TT). 
The Company has appropriately justified that bioburden is not considered as a critical process 
parameter during the manufacture of the purified MenPS bulks, due to process steps performed 
aseptically, process steps showing bioburden reduction capacities or process conditions not favourable 
for bioburden growth. 
The production process for purification of tetanus toxoid is acceptably controlled and has been 
appropriately demonstrated. The quality control of TT complies with Ph. Eur., and is performed with 
validated methods.  
Quality control of purified polysaccharides are performed with adequately validated methods and are in 
general considered to be in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monographs for Meningococcal polysaccharide 
vaccine and Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine. In general, the results from the batch analysis 
of each of the four polysaccharides demonstrate consistency and were within the pre-set limits. 
 
Process Development and Validation 
The Applicant has, for process validation, demonstrated process consistency and satisfactorily 
validated critical parameters such as shelf-lives of intermediates, ultrafiltration membrane and column 
lifetimes, inactivation duration and temperature for inactivation of the four N. meningitidis serotypes 
and detoxification temperature and duration of tetanus toxoid fermentation broth.  
The validation report covering the transport of MenPS bulks intra and inter sites have been satisfactory 
provided. Also, an acceptably low bioburden at steps after inactivation has been provided.  
Nimenrix 
Page 11/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Reference Standards and Materials 
The descriptions of the reference materials are satisfactory. The applicant confirms that the currently 
in use reference materials are the ones provided in the original registration file and provide data to 
support stability of the standards. 
  Container Closure System 
Information on the containers used for the storage of the purified MenPS-TT conjugate bulks and 
intermediates have been provided, including information regarding critical dimensions and compliance 
with the Ph.Eur. 
  Characterisation 
MenPS  
The analytical techniques used to measure free polysaccharide in drug substance bulks and total 
polysaccharide in the final product were changed after the clinical trials. Detailed SOPs and validation 
data have been presented at the time of the final assessment.  
Also, the applicant has satisfactorily explained the range and actions for monitoring tests on sized 
MenPS; Several changes to analytical procedures are proposed for testing identity, O-acetyl content, 
alcohol content and sialic acid content. Changes to the Molecular Size Distribution (MSD) assay are 
also proposed. Overall they have adequately demonstrated the comparability of the methods proposed 
for commercial production to those used during manufacture of clinical lots. 
MenPS-TT 
For the conjugated bulks some clarifications were sought in regards to comparability exercise in which 
was concluded that the characteristics are not significantly different between clinical and commercial 
material.  
The Applicant has also presented clearance data for several identified impurities. The applied methods 
for detection of impurities have been described in the characterization section and full validations of 
these methods have been presented in the dossier. All appropriate parameters have been satisfactorily 
evaluated and the Applicant has indeed demonstrated appropriateness and suitability of the applied 
methods. 
The Applicant has provided information regarding the potential toxicity of the identified exogenous 
process related impurities, which are all considerably lower than the 1.5 μg/dose stated in EMEA 
Guideline on ‘The Limits of Genotoxic Impurities.’ (EMEA/CHMP/QWP/251344/2006), the presented 
information is considered sufficient and acceptable. 
The assessment concluded that there is no adequate analysis of aggregates, at the drug substance and 
product (and stability) level. In response, the applicant points out that aggregated product has never 
been detected either at batch release or during stability studies using the method proposed for the 
testing of commercial lots. Never-the-less, the company proposes to take the following action to detect 
potential aggregation in the conjugate bulks: The level of aggregation will be monitored using the 
method proposed for the testing of the commercial lots for the first 3 commercial conjugate bulks that 
will be produced as of the approval of the registration file. The analysis will be performed on 3 bulks 
per serotype at release and during their storage. Based on the data that will be generated, the 
Nimenrix 
Page 12/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
company is recommended to assess the need to implement a specification to monitor the percentage 
of aggregation of conjugates.  
The assay performed at the drug product level is unsuitable for detection of aggregated product. The 
applicant is evaluating the possibility of converting the current method to align to the one used for DS 
analysis. If this conversion is successful, the company makes the same commitment regarding 
monitoring the first 3 DP batches for aggregates as it does for DS (see above). However, since no data 
is currently available at the DP level regarding aggregation during storage of product, the company is 
recommended to develop an analytical method which would detect aggregates in the final vial 
regardless of whether the modification of the current method succeeds, since no data on aggregation 
(which could hide epitopes, reducing efficacy) during storage of product has been provided. Reference 
to this recommendation is made in section 2.2.6. 
Overall the company has adequately demonstrated the comparability of the methods proposed for 
commercial production to those used during manufacture of clinical lots.  
The specifications have been defined taking into account commercial scale manufacturing, and with 
reference to batches used in clinical trials. However, the specification for the critical parameter of 
PS:TT ratio is determined from a very limited number of batches and the applicant is recommended to 
update this specification once data from sufficient batches becomes available. Reference to the 
recommendations is also made in Section 2.2.6 of this report.   
Specification 
The company proposes to release the polysaccharides based upon description, identity, O-Acetyl 
content and Sialic acid content, Phosphorus content, molecular size distribution, protein content, 
nucleic acid content, water content, alcohol content and endotoxin content.  
The release of the MenPS-TT bulks relates to the following tests: description, identity, protein content, 
Men PS content, saccharide to protein ratio, molecular size distribution, Free PScontent, free tetanus 
toxoid content and sterility test. 
Most of the tests and specifications performed as part of the routine testing on the drug substances are 
in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine. The applicant is 
recommended to recalculate the specification for PS:TT ratio once data from sufficient batches are 
available. 
Analytical methods have been adequately described and validated. 
Stability 
The stability protocol for purified polysaccharides comprises testing for description, molecular size 
distribution, O-acetyl content and water content. Real time stability data from clinical phase 3/process 
validation batches support the proposed shelf-life for the purified polysaccharides. 
Real time stability data for the commercially manufactured monobulk conjugates is presented when 
stored in PETG containers at 2-8°C. The proposed shelf lives are supported by these data. Since the 
validation of the methods of determining free PS have been suitably validated, the reason for the 
discrepancy with the method used on clinical lots has been explained, these shelf lives are acceptable.  
Nimenrix 
Page 13/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
The GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals’ MenACWY-TT is composed of 5 µg each of the purified capsular 
polysaccharides of Neisseria meningitidis types A, C, W and Y, conjugated to tetanus toxoid. 
MenACWY-TT is a non adsorbed freeze-dried preparation presented as monodose vials to be 
reconstituted with a diluent (saline solution). The diluent is presented in glass ampoules (monodoses) 
or in glass syringes (monodoses). 
The diluent drug product is a 0.9% sodium chloride solution. Sodium chloride and water for injections 
(WFI) comply with Ph. Eur monographs 0193 and 0169, respectively. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The product development has been adequately described and the rationale for the final formulation 
justified. 
During the manufacturing of the 3rd generation MenACWY-TT candidate vaccine, the production of the 
MenA-TT, MenC-TT and PSW-TT conjugates was developed in two steps corresponding to an increase 
in conjugation for each of the three polysaccharides. The MenY-TT conjugate lots are produced at one 
single conjugation scale only. Three different formulations of the third generation candidate vaccine 
were assessed in clinical studies. Formulation 3 was selected for further clinical development. 
Formulation 3 (clinical consistency lots) is also representative for the commercial lots. The 3 clinical 
consistency lots were produced using the same process as the commercial lots. The only difference is 
the scale and production buildings. 
The data provided on the final clinical development lots demonstrated that these were fully 
representative of the commercial consistency batches. 
Given the simplicity of the process, batch release and validation data, the relevance of the clinical to 
commercial product is acceptable. This has all been adequately addressed by the applicant.  
Adventitious agents 
Viral safety aspects do not apply to production of the MenACWY-TT vaccine components. All 
components are licensed for use in already authorised vaccines. No specific concerns were raised for 
Nimenrix. 
Manufacture of the product 
The process entails aseptic addition of the conjugates to sterile formulation components (sucrose and 
Tris-HCl), pH adjustment, fill and freeze-drying of the final product vials, followed by capping, labelling 
and inspection.  
The final bulk vaccine is aseptically filled into 3 ml glass vials (type I) using an automatic 
filling/stoppering machine.  
It appears that all manufacturing operations downstream of the final sterilising filtration step are in 
compliance with Annex 1 room requirements. Filling is performed in an isolator. The Company has 
demonstrated that the final sterile filtration is as far downstream as it is technically feasible to perform. 
Nimenrix 
Page 14/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sterility is monitored both at batch release and during stability studies, and regular media fill studies 
repeatedly validate the ability of the process lines to operate aseptically. 
The lyophilization process consists of three steps: a) freezing of the vials), b) primary drying, and c) 
secondary drying. The vacuum is then broken by introducing sterile dry nitrogen. Stoppers are inserted 
and the vials are stored at 2-8°C until final capping. 
There is no intermediate produced between the final bulk stored at 2-8°C and the end of lyophilization. 
The method of analysis for the monitoring and control during vaccine formulation and asceptic filling 
operations and vaccine vials integrity of the final container have been provided. 
The process validation for MenACWY-TT lyophilized vaccine is demonstrated through process 
consistency and through the identification and validation of the manufacturing process critical 
parameters for specific operations. Validation reports of the analytical procedures are considered 
acceptable. 
The holding time for the formulated bulk, has been satisfactory validated. 
The validation of the container-closure integrity test, has been provided.  
Product specification 
The panel of product specifications for release of the final lot vaccine as proposed by the Applicant 
comprises for MenACWY tests for: Identity MenA-TT, MenC-TT, MenW-TT and MenY-TT by ELISA, total 
saccharides of MenA (IPC), combined MenC, MenW and MenY, MenW and MenY and MenC individually 
by RP-UPLC, MSD, appearance, pH, endotoxin, residual moisture and sterility. Additional testing for 
abnormal toxicity in guinea pigs and mice will continue until consistency in production has been 
demonstrated and will not be included in future drug product release analysis.  
Full details of the principle and the method description have been provided for saccharides 
quantification methods. Generally the data submitted raises no concerns. Regarding stability, evidence 
has been provided that the testing program contains a suitable stability indicator.  
The Applicant has provided batch analysis data from four clinical and four commercial consistency 
batches of MenACWY-TT. The presented specifications are in general in line with the requirements in 
Ph. Eur 0250 and 2112. 
The requirement for a specification for free PS at the DP level is dropped, since the acceptability of the  
MSD assay has been shown.  
As previously discussed for the drug substance, the applicant is recommended to introduce a 
specification that monitors the presence of aggregated species. 
Ph.Eur. monograph 2112 for meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine states that a test for pyrogens 
in rabbits carried out on the final lot should be established during development studies and wherever 
revalidation is necessary. The Applicant has established a test for pyrogens in rabbits during 
development studies and the absence of pyrogenicity in both clinical and commercial lots has been 
confirmed.  
For those National Control Laboratories who have to conduct local independent release testing, the 
Company proposes an optional release program. The specifications for the optional release testing are 
broader than those applied for the routine release program and the Applicant justifies the broad 
specification by referring to the higher variability for the alternative method as compared to the routine 
Nimenrix 
Page 15/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
methods. It is acknowledged that the alternative methods provide results with higher variability than 
the routine methods.  
Final product specifications have been amended; the total polysaccharides are now measured 
individually and have individual specifications. Analytical results for clinical consistency and commercial 
consistency batches have been provided and conform to specification. Reference standards for the four 
conjugates are detailed along with procedures to adopt new standards. Satisfactory details of container 
closure system have been provided. 
Stability of the product 
Although being compliant with the pre-set specification, there is a clear increase in molecular size 
distribution for the commercial batches of MenACWY-TT at the 9 month interval  as compared to the 
presented clinical lots. Additional stability data confirming the stability of commercial lots up to 18 
months has been submitted.  
A trend analysis for MSD was also performed and revealed a significant increase in elution before cut 
off for MenY-TT. However, the applicant confirms that future time-points are expected to reveal 
absence of any trend in MSD for this serotype as well and commits to submit on an ongoing basis 
stability updates for the commercial lots, to provide assurance on the stability of the vaccine.  
The Applicant was asked during the procedure to introduce a test for potency/immunogenicity into 
their stability programme at least for a limited number of batches to demonstrate functional stability of 
the vaccine during shelf-life. A thorough argumentation for why the applicant does not consider a 
potency/immunogenicity test in their stability program to be of any relevance has been submitted. It is 
acknowledged that regarding integrity of the conjugates with respect to degradation, the MSD assay 
might be one of the more appropriate methods applied.  
Taking into account experience, free PS, MSD analysis, both in terms of degradation and proposed 
actions to monitor eventual aggregation, and the lack of a very sensitive animal model test the 
absence of a potency/immunogenicity test in the stability program can be accepted.  
The Applicant’s justification for the absence of additional physico-chemical stability parameters such as 
O-acetyl content and content of the individual free polysaccharides at the level of final vaccine release 
and over the proposed shelf life is considered acceptable.  
The requested shelf life of 36 months at 2 to 8°C is appropriate based on the data presented. Results 
from the stability study of the reconstituted vaccine have been provided. Immunogenicity of the drug 
product has been demonstrated for up to 53 months of age both non-clinically and clinically in support 
of the physico-chemical characterisation data in support of the 36 months shelf life.  
However, the applicant is recommended to develop an assay to detect aggregates in the final product 
vial, and to monitor aggregate formation at release and in stability studies on three initial batches. 
After evaluation of this data, the applicant should then introduce control for aggregates at release and 
on stability, if justified by the data.  
GMP 
Acceptable GMP status has been verified for the involved manufacturers. 
Nimenrix 
Page 16/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Drug Substance: 
In general, the manufacturing process for the 4 polysacharides, tetanus toxoid, and conjugation 
procedures are well described. Several minor changes have been made to the manufacture of 
commercial material when compared to the clinical trial consistency lots. These changes have been 
validated by comparison of process, validation and characterisation data. 
The description of the fermentation and purification process of the meningococcal polysaccharides and 
the corresponding in-process and release testing is adequate. 
The control testing of the Master and Working seeds is considered acceptable. Compendial (Ph.Eur. or 
USP) specifications are in place for most of the raw materials used in manufacturing process of the 
drug substances. 
The release of the MenPS-TT bulks is based upon description, identity, protein content, Men PS 
content, saccharide to protein ratio, molecular size distribution, Free Men group content, free tetanus 
toxoid content and sterility test. 
Most of the tests and specifications performed as part of the routine testing on the drug substances are 
in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph Meningococcal group C conjugate vaccine. 
Real time stability data for the proposed shelf life of commercially manufactured conjugates is 
presented for the monobulk conjugates.  
Drug product: 
The GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals’ MenACWY-TT is composed of 5 µg each of the purified capsular 
polysaccharides of Neisseria meningitidis types A, C, W and Y, conjugated to tetanus toxoid. 
MenACWY-TT is a non adsorbed freeze-dried preparation presented as monodose vials to be 
reconstituted with a diluent (saline solution). The diluent is presented in glass ampoules (monodoses) 
or in glass syringes (monodoses). 
The product development has been adequately described and the rationale for the final formulation 
justified. 
Formulation of the MenACWY-TT vaccine takes place in mobile stainless steel tanks, in aseptic 
conditions. A concentrated sterile sucrose solution and a concentrated sterile Tris-HCl buffer are diluted 
with water for injection (Ph. Eur.). The MenAAH-TT, MenCAH-TT, MenW-TT and MenY-TT conjugate 
bulks are added and the resulting suspension is stirred until homogeneity. 
The process validation for MenACWY-TT lyophilized vaccine is demonstrated through process 
consistency and through the identification and validation of the manufacturing process critical 
parameters for specific operations. 
The panel of product specifications for release of the final lot vaccine as proposed by the Applicant 
comprises for MenACWY tests for: Identity MenA-TT, MenC-TT, MenW-TT and MenY-TT, total 
saccharides of MenA, combined MenC, MenW and MenY, MenW and MenY and MenC individually, MSD, 
appearance, pH, endotoxin, residual moisture and sterility. 
Nimenrix 
Page 17/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The requested drug product shelf life of 36 months at 2 to 8°C is appropriate based on the data 
presented. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The fermentation and purification of the drug substance are adequately 
described, controlled and validated. The drug substance is well characterised with regard to its 
physicochemical and biological characteristics, using state-of the-art methods, and appropriate 
specifications are set. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described 
and validated. The quality of the drug product is controlled by adequate test methods and 
specifications. The application demonstrates that the validated production process, control of drug 
substances and the control of drug product will lead to production of a vaccine with consistent quality. 
Concerns raised during the evaluation regarding the measurement of free polysaccharide at the 
conjugate bulk and drug product level, and the impact this may have on shelf lives have been 
satisfactorily answered.  
During the assessment process, no major objections were identified. All minor concerns raised during 
the assessment have now been satisfactorily addressed by the applicant. The overall Quality of 
Nimenrix is considered acceptable.  
In conclusion with regards to the biological and pharmaceutical aspects of Nimenrix the CHMP 
considers that all issues have been resolved by the Applicant and a list of recommendations has been 
agreed with the applicant as listed below. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
There are recommendations for future development issued by the CHMP: 
1. The applicant is recommended to include a reference standard in the W specific ELISA  
2. The applicant is recommended to recalculate the specification for PS:TT ratio once data from 
sufficient batches are available. 
3. It is recommended to further investigate the level of aggregates in the production process and 
establish the consistency of the production process on this parameter which may impact on the 
immunogenicity profile of the vaccine. 
4. It is recommended to further improve the limit of detection of the current chromatographic test, 
with the view to replace the currently used column which is considered poorly reproducible. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Pre-clinical immunogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rabbits with the four individual 
meningococcal conjugates (i.e. MenA-TT, MenC-TT, MenW-TT and MenY-TT), with and without spacer, 
and with the final combined MenACWY-TT formulation. Although the animal models may not fully 
Nimenrix 
Page 18/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
predict the response in humans, the pre-clinical studies led to the selection of the dose of 
polysaccharide and the conjugation methodologies (with/without a spacer) of the candidate vaccine 
MenACWY-TT to be tested in clinics.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
The immunisation with Nimenrix in mice and rabbits induces the production of bactericidal antibodies 
against capsular polysaccharides of serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y, which protect against 
meningococcal diseases via complement mediated bactericidal killing. By conjugating capsular 
polysaccharide to a protein carrier that contains T-cell epitopes, meningococcal conjugate vaccines 
change the nature of immune response to the capsular polysaccharide from T-cell independent to T-cell 
dependent memory response.  
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Immunogenicity studies performed in female New Zealand White rabbits confirmed the immunogenicity 
of the candidate MenACWY-TT vaccine and the suitability of the rabbit species for use in toxicology 
studies. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies have not been conducted.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
A safety pharmacology study was performed to evaluate the effects of the first generation MenACWY-
TT vaccine, injected via both the intravenous and intramuscular routes, on cardiovascular and 
respiratory functions in anaesthetised male Wistar rats (HLS BVR 418/033455). A dose of 0.1 
ml/animal of MenACWY-TT vaccine was injected intramuscularly, resulting in an approximately 63-fold 
higher dose than the intended human dose, relative to bodyweight. MenACWY-TT vaccine was also 
examined intravenously at a dose of 1 ml/kg to maximise systemic exposure. The high dose was 
approximately 63-fold higher than the intended human dose. 
Intravenous or intramuscular administration of the first generation MenACWY-TT vaccine did not 
produce any biologically significant effects on cardiovascular (blood pressure, heart rate and ECG (lead 
II)) or respiratory (respiration rate, tidal volume or minute volume) parameters, when compared with 
the saline-treated control group.  Values recorded for all cardiovascular and respiratory parameters 
following intravenous or intramuscular administration of the first generation MenACWY-TT vaccine were 
within the normal range expected for this type of study. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic interaction studies have not been conducted. However, interactions between 
Nimenrix and some vaccines commonly administered to the same population have been investigated in 
the clinical setting. 
Nimenrix 
Page 19/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
As noted in the WHO Guidelines on Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines and EMEA/CPMP Note for 
Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95), 
pharmacokinetics testing is not required for final vaccine formulations. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The single dose toxicity of the third generation MenACWY-TT vaccine was evaluated in a combined 
local tolerance and single dose study “Single Dose Toxicity and Local Tolerance Study with a 
MenACWY-TT Candidate Vaccine administered intramuscularly to Male and Female Rabbits TNO Report 
V 7912/04, May 2009” (see local tolerance). Each rabbit received a 0.5 ml dose per injection site, 
equivalent to an intended human dose, and was sacrificed 3 days after the inoculation. The reactions of 
the MenACWY-TT candidate vaccine were compared to those of a sham-treated saline control group. 
Local reactions at the injection sites were recorded approximately 3, 24, 48 and 72 hours after the 
injection. General clinical signs, body weights, macroscopic changes at necropsy and histopathology of 
the injection site collected 3 days after injection were used to evaluate possible adverse effects. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The toxicity and reactogenicity of five repeated intramuscular injections (with a 2-week interval 
between inoculations) of MenACWY-TT (third generation) vaccine was examined in male and female 
New Zealand White albino rabbits and compared to a sham-treated saline control group (Repeated-
dose toxicity study with a MenACWY-TT Candidate Vaccine administered intramuscularly (five times) to 
male and female rabbits TNO Report V 8217, May 2009). Each study group was divided into subgroups 
1 and 2, sacrificed 3 and 28 days after the fifth inoculation, respectively. Clinical signs, 
ophthalmoscopy, rectal body temperature, body weight, food intake, haematology, clinical chemistry of 
the blood, gross changes at necropsy, organ weights, and histopathological examinations were used to 
evaluate possible adverse effects. 
No distinct treatment-related changes were observed in general and in local clinical signs, 
ophthalmoscopy, rectal body temperature, haematology, clinical chemistry or organ weights. 
Macroscopic examination of the inoculation sites on days 3 and 28 after the fifth inoculation did not 
reveal gross changes. Microscopic examination of the last injection site (right calf muscle) three days 
post inoculation with the MenACWY-TT vaccine revealed very slight to slight widespread mixed cell 
type inflammation. No adverse vaccine formulation-related histopathological changes were observed 
any other tissues or organs. 
In conclusion, five repeated intramuscular injections of MenACWYTT third generation vaccine to rabbits 
induced a very slight to slight inflammation in the injected muscles. 
The inflammation diminished distinctly over time and a clear recovery process was observed 28-days 
after the last dose. 
Nimenrix 
Page 20/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
As noted in the WHO Guidelines on Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines (Nov. 2003) and the EMEA Note 
for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95), 
genotoxicity studies are not required for final vaccine formulations. 
Carcinogenicity 
As noted in the WHO Guidelines on Nonclinical Evaluation of Vaccines (Nov. 2003) and the EMEA Note 
for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological testing of Vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95), 
carcinogenicity studies are not required for final vaccine formulations. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
A reproductive toxicity study with the final formulation MenAAHCAHWY-TT vaccine was conducted to 
evaluate the effect of the formulation on embryo-fetal, pre- and post-natal development in the rat 
(TNO V7113). 
In this study, female Wistar rats received either saline or the MenACWY-TT vaccine. To study the 
possible impact on the pre- and post-natal development of the offspring, female rats were inoculated 
by the intramuscular route with MenAAHCAHWY-TT or saline 42 and 28 days before mating (priming) 
and on gestation days 6, 8, 11 and 15.  Half of the rats from each group were sacrificed on gestation 
day 21 and macroscopically examined. Foetuses, placentas and reproductive organs were weighed and 
foetuses were examined for visceral and skeletal abnormalities after caesarean section. The other half 
of each group was allowed to litter and raise their pups until weaning. Postnatal development of the 
pups (pup weight, surface righting, air righting, auditory response and pupil reflex) was evaluated until 
postnatal day 25. 
The results of the study indicate that intramuscular administration of the final formulation M 
MenAAHCAHWY-TT candidate vaccine to female rats produced no treatment-related effects on 
maternal toxicity, fertility, prenatal development (including external, visceral and skeletal 
abnormalities), or postnatal development of the pups up to 25 days after birth. 
Report Title:  
Embryo-fetal, pre-and post-natal developmental study with MenACWY-TT candidate vaccine 
administered intramuscularly in rats  
Effects on Pre-and 
Postnatal:  
Development, Including Maternal Function :  
Design similar to ICH 
4.1.2?  
Species/Strain:  
Initial Age:  
Date of First Dose:  
Nimenrix 
Yes; dosing 
adapted to 
properties of 
drug  
Rat/ Wistar 
outbred 
Crl:WI(WU)  
Approx. 8 
weeks  
30 October 
2006  
Duration of Dosing:  
Day of Mating :  
Method of Administration:  
- 
- 
6 x ( 42 and 28 
days before 
mating, GD 6, 
8,11,15)  
42 days after first 
dosing; GD 0 
(sperm positive)  
intramuscular  
Test Article:  
MenACWY-TT 
candiate 
vaccine  
Study No.  
TNO study 
7113  
Location in 
CTD :  
Vol. Page  
Vehicle/Formulation:  
Litters Culled/Not Culled:  
Culled  
Saline 0.9% NaCl  
GLP 
Compliance:  
yes  
Page 21/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special Features:  
Females are primed 42 and 28 days before mating; approx half of the females were sacrificed on GD 21 
and fetopathology was perfomed; the other half of the dams was allowed to rear their litter  
No Observed Adverse Effect Level:  
> 200 Bl MenACWY-TT candidate vaccine per female  
F0 Females:  
48/group (half of the females sacificed on GD 21)  
TNO Report V7113 (Embryo-fetal, pre- and post-natal developmental study with MenAAHCAHWY-TT 
candidate vaccine administered intramuscularly in rats, August 2007) included assessments of female 
fertility, early embryonic development and embryo-fetal development.  
In addition, TNO Report V7113 (Embryo-fetal, pre- and post-natal developmental study with 
MenAAHCAHWY-TT candidate vaccine administered intramuscularly in rats, August 2007) included 
assessments of the postnatal development of the offspring to postnatal day 25. Postnatal development 
of the pups (pup weight, surface righting, air righting, auditory response and pupil reflex) was followed 
until postnatal day 25.  
Local tolerance 
The final formulation of the MenAAHCAHWY-TT candidate vaccine was examined for its local 
reactogenicity after a single intramuscular injection in a group of three male and three female New 
Zealand White rabbits and sacrificed 3 days after the inoculation (TNO V 7912/04). The animals 
received 0.5 ml per injection site, equivalent to an intended human dose. The reactions of the 
MenACWY-TT candidate vaccine were compared to those of a sham-treated saline control group. Local 
injection site reactions were recorded approximately, 3, 24, 48 and 72 hours after the injection. 
General clinical signs, body weights, macroscopic changes at necropsy and histopathology of the 
injection site collected 3 days after injection were used to assess potential adverse effects. 
No distinct treatment-related changes were observed in general and local clinical signs and body 
weight of the animals treated with the final formulation of the vaccine. Macroscopic examination of the 
injection sites revealed no abnormalities.  Microscopically, a slight mononuclear type inflammation was 
observed in the MenACWY-TT group, which was similar in character and degree to the inflammation 
induced by injection with the saline control. 
Other toxicity studies 
Studies of single dose toxicity via i.m. and oral administration in rats, in vitro mutagenicity tests (Ames 
test up to 5000 μg/plate with S. typhimurium TA100 strain only; L5178Y TK=/- mouse lymphoma cells 
up to toxic concentration of 10 mM), and skin sensitisation potential in Guinea pigs were conducted 
with DMAP., which is liberated as a by-product.  None of these studies revealed a cause for concern for 
the residual levels in the candidate vaccine. 
Determination of the no-observed effect level (NOEL) following a single oral administration to the rat 
(SPL 061/1122) 
Fasted Sprague-Dawley CD rats, weighing 152-162g (males) and 150-152g (females) were dosed once 
only, by oral gavage, and 3 dose levels were sequentially tested:  
Animals dosed at 50 and 200 mg/kg bodyweight showed no clinical signs of toxicity during the 14-day 
observation period. All animals showed expected gains in bodyweight. 
No abnormalities were noted at necropsy. The female rat dosed at 500 mg/kg died 1 hour 35 minutes 
after dosing. Abnormally red lungs, dark liver and kidneys were noted at necropsy of this animal. 
Nimenrix 
Page 22/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the NOEL for DMAP, following a single oral administration to the rat, was set at 200 mg/kg 
bodyweigh. 
Single Dose Toxicity by Intramuscular Administration to CD Rats (BVR 217) 
In the absence of any acute toxicity data for DMAP via the IM route, GSK Biologicals performed an 
acute IM toxicity study (BVR 217) in CD strain Sprague-Dawley rats. Groups of 5 males and 5 females, 
6 week-old, weighing 212-250g (males) or 143-190g (females), received single IM doses of 1 or 10 
mg/kg bodyweight (the maximum feasible dose based on solubility data) in the biceps femoris of the 
hindleg on Day 0. There was no sign of toxicity (i.e. deaths, clinical signs, effects on bodyweight gain) 
during the 14 days following dosing. At macroscopic examination at necropsy of animals on Day 14, 
enlarged right lumbar lymph nodes were seen in 2 males dosed at 10 mg/kg. 
Magnusson & Kligman maximisation study in the guinea pig (SPL061/1081) 
This test aims at assessing the contact sensitisation potential of DMAP in Dunkin-Hartley male albino 
guinea pigs, 8-12 week-old and weighing 389-450g. Following dose-range studies (0.1% - 1 % w/v in 
distilled water), the formulations of DMAP for the induction and challenge phase were selected as 
follows: 
Intradermal induction: 0.1% w/v in a mixture of Freund’s Complete Adjuvant or 0.1% w/v in distilled 
water; topical induction: 10% w/w in distilled water; topical challenge: 
10% and 5% w/w in distilled water. DMAP produced a 30 % (3 out of 10 animals) sensitisation rate 
and was therefore classified as a moderate sensitizer to guinea pig skin. 
Reverse Mutation (Ames) test (SPL061/1079) 
S. typhimurium strains TA1535, TA1537, TA102, TA98 and TA100 were treated with DMAP using the 
Ames plate incorporation method at five dose levels (50 to 5000 μg/plate), in triplicate, both with and 
without the addition of a rat liver homogenate metabolising system. The vehicle (distilled water) 
control plates produced counts of revertant colonies within the normal range. All positive reference 
compounds produced marked increases in the frequency of revertant colonies, with and without the 
metabolising system. DMAP caused no visible reduction in the growth of the bacterial lawn at any of 
the dose levels to any of the Salmonella strains tested, therefore, the test material was tested up to 
the maximum recommended dose of 5000 μg/plate. DMAP was found to be non-mutagenic under all 
test conditions. 
Mouse lymphoma (L5178Y TK +/-) Assay (SPL 061/1080) 
L5178Y TK +/- 3.7.2c mouse lymphoma cells (heterozygous at the thymidine kinase locus) were 
treated with DMAP at different dose levels (152.75, 305.5, 611 and 1222 μg/ml) both with and without 
metabolic activation, together with vehicle (solvent) and positive control. 
DMAP did not induce any statistically significant dose-related increases in the mutant frequency either 
in the absence or in the presence of metabolic activation. All positive reference compounds produced 
marked increases in the mutant frequency, both with and without the metabolising system. DMAP was 
shown to be non-mutagenic to L5178Y cells under all conditions of the test. 
Nimenrix 
Page 23/84
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According to the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) of Medicinal Products for 
Human Use EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr 1*, an ERA is not necessary. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Nimenrix is composed of the four meningococcal capsular polysaccharides (PS) A, C, W-135 and Y, 
each conjugated to tetanus toxoid (TT). These conjugates are named MenA-TT, MenC-TT, MenW-TT 
and MenY-TT. The final formulation contains 5 µg of each polysaccharide.  
Pre-clinical immunogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rabbits with the four individual 
meningococcal conjugates (i.e. MenA-TT, MenC-TT, MenW-TT and MenY-TT), with and without spacer, 
and with the final combined MenACWY-TT formulation. Although the animal models may not fully 
predict the response in humans, the pre-clinical studies provide enough evidence to justify the 
selection of the dose of polysaccharide and the conjugation methodologies (with/without a spacer) for 
the final formulation and to support the claimed primary pharmacodynamic effect. 
The results showed that conjugated polysaccharides induce a higher bactericidal response, as 
compared to plain polysaccharides. In addition, the impact of the addition of spacer i.e. AH to the 
MenA and MenC polysaccharides before their conjugation to TT was evaluated. In both cases, the 
presence of spacer increased the immunogenicity of the MenA and MenC conjugates when compared to 
the immunogenicity of the MenA and MenC conjugates without spacer. 
The immunisation with Nimenrix in mice and rabbits induced the production of bactericidal antibodies 
against capsular polysaccharides of serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y, which protect against 
meningococcal diseases via complement mediated bactericidal killing. By conjugating capsular 
polysaccharide to a protein carrier that contains T-cell epitopes, meningococcal conjugate vaccines 
change the nature of immune response to the capsular polysaccharide from T-cell independent to T-cell 
dependent memory response. Plain polysaccharide meningococcal vaccines have been available but 
they are poorly immunogenic in young children, they do not elicit immune memory response and they 
can cause hyporesponsiveness to repeated doses. Conjugate vaccines with an appropriate protein 
carrier can potentially overcome these issues. 
A safety pharmacology study was performed to evaluate the effects of the first generation MenACWY-
TT vaccine, injected via both the intravenous and intramuscular routes, on cardiovascular and 
respiratory functions in anaesthetised male Wistar rats. The safety pharmacology study conducted in 
rats is not suitable to exclude central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular effects.  
However, single and repeat dose toxicity studies in rabbits did not reveal any adverse effect on CNS or 
cardiovascular system. 
Pharmacodynamic interaction studies have not been conducted. However, interactions between 
Nimenrix and some vaccines commonly administered to the same population have been investigated in 
the clinical setting. 
The MenACWY-TT vaccine was shown to be immunogenic in the preliminary studies in rabbits, the 
animal species used for toxicity testing. Serological analysis of anti-PSC and anti-PSA antibodies in the 
repeated-dose toxicity studies confirmed 100 % seroconversion. In addition, pre-clinical studies 
performed in mice allowed the comparison of the immune response between individual meningococcal 
polysaccharides and conjugated polysaccharides and the impact of spacer addition on PSA and PSC. 
The single dose toxicity of Nimenrix was evaluated as part of the safety pharmacology study in rats 
and the local tolerance study in rabbits. Histopathology was confined to the injection site. Gross 
Nimenrix 
Page 24/84
 
 
 
 
 
necropsy observations did not reveal causes of concern. The safety profile of Nimenrix was further 
investigated in repeat dose toxicity studies.  
Toxicokinetic measurements of the vaccine candidate or isolated conjugates have not been conducted 
and are not required. 
The lack of genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies is acceptable. 
A reproductive toxicity study with the final formulation MenAAHCAHWY-TT vaccine was conducted to 
evaluate the effect of the formulation on embryo-fetal, pre- and post-natal development in the rat, all 
in one study. The study design is acceptable to support proposed wording on the lack of reproductive 
toxicity in animals in sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SmPC. The results of this study support the 
precautionary recommendations for use during pregnancy under section 4.6. 
Juvenile toxicity studies are not deemed necessary in view of the lack of target organs in systems that 
could be affected during development, as observed in toxicity studies. 
The immunogenicity and toxicology studies did not reveal any interactions with the immune system 
that could cause dysfunction. 
Studies of single dose toxicity via IM and oral administration in rats, in vitro mutagenicity tests (Ames 
test up to 5000 μg/plate with S. typhimurium TA100 strain only; L5178Y TK=/- mouse lymphoma cells 
up to toxic concentration of 10 mM), and skin sensitisation potential in Guinea pigs were conducted 
with DMAP. None of these studies revealed a cause for concern for the residual levels in the candidate 
vaccine. 
The content of identified potentially toxic production impurities per dose is below the threshold of 
toxicological concern for genotoxic impurities of 1.5 μg/day. 
An Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) is not necessary due to the nature of the constituents of 
Nimenrix. 
Overall, the preclinical package is adequate to support this application and there are no non-clinical 
outstanding concerns to object to the approval of Nimenrix. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical program adequately supports the marketing authorisation application for Nimenrix. 
The toxicity profile of Nimenrix is sufficiently characterised by the non-clinical data submitted. The 
statements in section 5.3 of the SmPC pertaining to non clinical data are appropriate.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The applicant has developed a quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine (ACWY-TT) that is 
proposed for use as a single dose from 12 months of age. The final formulation contains 5 µg of each 
polysaccharide. The MenA and the MenC polysaccharides are conjugated to tetanus toxoid with an 
adipic dihydrazide (AH) spacer and the MenW-135 and MenY polysaccharides are conjugated directly. 
The dose of polysaccharide and the conjugation methodologies (with/without a spacer) were initially 
selected from a series of early studies with experimental formulations followed by two dose- and 
Nimenrix 
Page 25/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulation-finding studies in young adults and in children aged from 12 months up to 5 years that 
each incorporated study groups that received the final version of the vaccine.  
The Clinical Development Plan of the MenACWY-TT vaccine was designed to support a one-dose 
vaccination schedule in all age groups starting at 12 months of age. 
The data included in the Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) included more than 7000 subjects 
as of 12 months of age, vaccinated with a single dose of the MenACWY-TT vaccine. 
The clinical development plan included studies that evaluated: 
- Safety, in more than 7000 subjects who were administered the final formulation of the MenACWY-TT 
vaccine, while in more than 1000 subjects have received formulations with different antigen content 
(2.5 μg to 5 μg); 
-  Immunological non-inferiority in terms of percentage of subjects with rSBA titres> 8 versus: 
- Meningitec (12-23 months) 
- Immunological non-inferiority in terms of rSBA vaccine response [post vaccination rSBA titres > 32 
for initially seronegative subjects (i.e, prevaccination rSBA titre < 8) or at least a 4-fold increase in 
rSBA titres from pre- to post-vaccination for initially seropositive subjects (i.e., pre-vaccination rSBA 
titre ≥ 8] versus: 
- Menjugate (2-10 years) 
- Mencevax (2-55 years) 
- Immunogenicity in terms of percentage of subjects with hSBA titres > 8 (study MenACWY-TT-052) 
versus: 
- Menactra (11-25 years) 
- Antibody persistence up to 42 months after vaccination (rSBA); 
- Demonstration of immunological memory (rSBA antibody titers after plain polysaccharide challenge) 
in children initially vaccinated at 12 to 14 months of age; 
- Co-administration with: 
- DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine (Infanrix hexa) 
- Measles-Mumps-Rubella-Varicella combined vaccine (Priorix tetra) 
- Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (Synflorix) 
- Seasonal influenza vaccine (Fluarix) 
- Combined hepatitis A and B vaccine (Twinrix) 
- Clinical consistency of the immunogenicity of three consecutive lots of the candidate MenACWY-TT 
vaccine. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Nimenrix was randomly selected for a GCP inspection.  
After inspection of two investigator sites (in 2 different studies) and of the sponsor the inspectors 
found that the conduct of trial 036 at a site was not conducted in compliance with GCP . The 
recommendation of the inspection team was to not consider the data from the inspected site for trial 
Nimenrix 
Page 26/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
036. As a follow-up the applicant provided additional analyses from study 036 in which the data from 
this site have been excluded.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
As a consequence of the nature and mode of administration of this candidate vaccine there are no 
issues related to bioavailability that could be anticipated. Biopharmaceutical studies have therefore not 
been performed during any stage of the development of the MenACWY-TT vaccine. 
As mentioned in the Note for Guidance on Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines [CHMP, 2005], 
“Pharmacokinetic studies are usually not required for vaccines. However, such studies might be 
applicable when new delivery systems are employed or when the vaccine contains novel adjuvants or 
excipients”. In conclusion it was found acceptable that the applicant did not conduct pharmacokinetic 
(PK) studies during the clinical development of the MenACWY-TT vaccine. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
Serum bactericidal activity (SBA) assays were performed using baby rabbit complement (rSBA) at the 
applicant’s laboratories. In some studies data were also generated at least in subsets using rSBA 
conducted at the UK HPA laboratories and/or at the applicant’s laboratories using human complement 
(hSBA). Following data from the initial studies in which rSBA and hSBA data were obtained using 
several different test strains the final selected strains for SBA testing were a MenA strain with an L10 
immunotype, the MenC C11 strain, the MenW 135 MP01240070 (referred to as MP) strain and the 
MenY S-1975 strain. A detailed analysis of the differences in sensitivity between these assays and the 
effects of using various strains in the tests were provided. 
Meningococcal group-specific IgG was measured in all studies using ELISA conducted at the applicant’s 
laboratories. Limited data were also generated in selected subsets using the HPA Luminex-based assay 
to determine IgG and IgM concentrations. 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
The two studies may be summarised as follows. Groups F3 and 3T received the final vaccine. These 
studies provided data to support the formulation selection (selected formulation is in bold) and the 
strains to be used in the SBA assays.  
Population 
Adolescents 
Young adults 
(15-19 years) 
Toddlers  
(12-14 months) 
Children  
(3-5 years) 
Study 
MenACWY-TT-
012/024/025/026 
DK 
024 Persistence M18 
025 Persistence M30 
026 Persistence M43  
MenACWY-TT-
013/014 
013  
AU, DE, PL 
014 Persistence at M15 
in 3T groups  
DE, AU 
014 - Challenge at M15 
in 3T group  
Study 012/024/025/026 
Nimenrix 
Study groups 
MenA2.5C2.5W2.5Y2.5-TT (F1: A+C+spacer)  
MenA5C5W2.5Y2.5-TT (F2: A+C+spacer)  
MenA5C5W5Y5-TT (F3: A+C with spacer)  
MenA5C5W5Y5-TT (F4: only A with spacer)  
Mencevax  
Toddlers: 
1T: MenA2.5C2.5W2.5Y2.5-TT (A + C with spacer)  
2T: MenA5C5W2.5Y2.5-TT (A + C with spacer)  
3T: MenA5C5W5Y5-TT (A + C with spacer)  
4T: MenA5C5W5Y5-TT (only A with spacer)  
Meningitec 
Children: As above for conjugate groups (1C to 4C) 
Mencevax ACWY 
Toddlers: 
Mencevax (1/5 adult dose) 
Page 27/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study enrolled 125 subjects and was double-blind with respect to the four ACWY-TT formulations. 
Based on rSBA and using the initial four strains in the assays all except one control group subject had 
rSBA titres  1:8 against MenA before vaccination while 80-92% had titres   1:8 against MenW and/or 
MenY but only 44-79% for MenC. There were increments in percentages with rSBA titres   1:128 and 
GMTs at D30 against each meningococcal group regardless of formulation. The rSBA GMTs were not 
consistently highest in any one of the four ACWY-TT groups but were mostly numerically higher after 
ACWY-TT vs. the control group. Against MenC the three groups with a spacer had higher GMTs vs. the 
group without a spacer and the control group but 95% CI all overlapped.  
The rSBA data for the final selected formulation and control groups showed that: 
  MenA: On D30 all subjects had rSBA titres  1:8 and at least 94% in each group had titres  1:128 
regardless of the strain used. At M42 all subjects in both groups still had titres at least 1:128. 
  MenC: Out to M42 75-80% still had at least 1:128 and there was no appreciable difference in GMTs 
between the selected formulation and control groups. 
  MenW: On D30 all subjects had titres above 1:128 against both strains. Using the MP strain all 
subjects had titres of at least 1:128 at M42 and 95% CI around the GMTs overlapped. 
  MenY: At M42 94% per group had titres of at least 1:128 with very comparable GMTs. 
hSBA using different MenA and W strains was performed for the selected formulation and control 
groups.   
  MenA: On D30 the percentages with titres at least 1:4 and 1:8, the GMTs and the response rates 
were numerically higher for the selected formulation vs. Mencevax regardless of the strain used. 
  MenC: On D30 the percentages with hSBA-MenC above 1:4 and 1:8, the GMT and the proportion of 
responders were numerically higher for ACWY-TT compared to Mencevax. 
  MenW: On D30 the GMTs were numerically higher in the ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax group.  
  MenY: On D30 the percentages with hSBA above 1:4 and 1:8 and the GMT were numerically higher 
for ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax.  
The hSBA data to M42 in a subset of subjects showed numerically higher GMTs in the ACWY-TT group 
for MenW and MenY but no other advantages for the conjugate.  
Study 013/014 
There were 508 subjects vaccinated (240 Toddlers [T] and 268 Children [C]) and 448 were included in 
the According To Protocol (ATP) immunogenicity cohort (218 Toddlers and 230 Children). The mean 
age of the Children was 3.5 years and the mean age of Toddlers was 12.6 months. The core rSBA 
results used the initial four strains and are presented in the two tables below. 
Percentages with rSBA titre  cut-offs & GMTs on D30 – Children 3 to 5 years 
Antibody 
Group 
MenA 
Form3C 
Mencevax ACWY 
MenC 
Form3C 
Mencevax ACWY 
Nimenrix 
N 
49 
33 
% 
100 
100 
1:8 
LL 
92.7 
89.4 
UL 
100 
100 
% 
100 
100 
1:128 
LL 
UL 
Value 
GMT 
LL 
UL 
92.7 
89.4 
100 
100 
8299.4 
3798.4 
6734.2 
2888.9 
10228.4 
4994.2 
49 
34 
100 
97.1 
92.7 
84.7 
100 
99.9 
98.0 
88.2 
89.1 
72.5 
99.9 
96.7 
1577.8 
445.4 
1123.5 
263.3 
2215.9 
753.3 
Page 28/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MenW-135 
Form3C 
Mencevax ACWY 
MenY 
Form3C 
Mencevax ACWY 
49 
34 
49 
34 
100 
100 
100 
100 
92.7 
89.7 
92.7 
89.7 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
97.1 
92.7 
89.7 
92.7 
84.7 
100 
100 
100 
99.9 
5987.2 
1811.1 
6433.0 
1435.5 
4846.9 
1233.3 
4921.0 
972.6 
7395.7 
2659.5 
8409.6 
2118.7 
Percentages with rSBA  the pre-defined cut-offs & GMTs on D30 - Toddlers 12-14 months 
Antibody 
Group 
rSBA-MenA 
Form3T 
Meningitec 
rSBA-MenC 
Form3T 
Meningitec 
rSBA-MenW-135 
Form3T 
Meningitec 
rSBA-MenY 
Form3T 
Meningitec 
N 
42 
39 
42 
46 
43 
45 
42 
45 
% 
100 
35.9 
100 
97.8 
100 
33.3 
100 
46.7 
1:8 
LL 
UL 
% 
1:128 
LL 
UL 
Value 
GMT 
LL 
UL 
91.6 
21.2 
91.6 
88.5 
91.8 
20.0 
91.6 
31.7 
100 
52.8 
100 
99.9 
100 
49.0 
100 
62.1 
100 
35.9 
95.2 
87.0 
100 
22.2 
100 
33.3 
91.6 
21.2 
83.8 
73.7 
91.8 
11.2 
91.6 
20.0 
100 
52.8 
99.4 
95.1 
100 
37.1 
100 
49.0 
5665.2 
20.5 
4086.0 
9.7 
7854.9 
43.3 
983.5 
372.5 
718.7 
257.7 
1345.9 
538.4 
3975.2 
14.6 
3065.7 
8.0 
5154.5 
26.6 
2295.1 
27.8 
1701.5 
14.0 
3095.8 
55.3 
On D30 there were some statistically significant differences in favour of the ACWY-TT formulations (in 
bold) and 95% CI for GMTs in Children did not overlap with those for Mencevax. The Toddlers 
responded well to Meningitec but there was no advantage for this monovalent conjugate compared to 
the ACWY-TT formulations. 
For hSBA results in Children the D30 percentages with hSBA titres  1:8 ranged from 50-60% for 
MenW 3193 to 95.7-100% for MenC and showed advantages compared to the Mencevax group with 
the least difference observed against MenC. GMTs were also higher in the ACWY-TT groups. Responses 
to MenA strains were higher for ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax group. Higher titres were seen against MenW 
MP compared to MenW 3193 and both sets of results showed an advantage for the conjugated vaccine. 
GMTs for hSBA against MenW 3193 were ~2- to 3-fold higher vs. the control group. 
hSBA titres ≥ 1:4 and 1:8 and GMTs (ATP cohort aged 3 to 5 years) 
 1:4 
 1:8 
GMT 
Antibody 
MenA L10 
MenC 
Group 
Form 3C 
Ctrl C 
Form 3C 
Ctrl C 
MenW MP 
Form 3C 
Ctrl C 
hSBA-MenY 
Form 3C 
Ctrl C 
Timing 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
N 
38 
42 
29 
26 
20 
23 
12 
14 
34 
40 
23 
22 
38 
38 
28 
28 
% 
15.8 
83.3 
13.8 
42.3 
25.0 
95.7 
58.3 
92.9 
17.6 
90.0 
8.7 
63.6 
18.4 
92.1 
25.0 
53.6 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
31.3 
6.0 
93.0 
68.6 
31.7 
3.9 
63.1 
23.4 
49.1 
8.7 
78.1  99.9 
27.7  84.8 
66.1  99.8 
6.8 
34.5 
76.3  97.2 
1.1 
28.0 
40.7  82.8 
7.7 
34.3 
78.6  98.3 
10.7  44.9 
33.9  72.5 
95% CI 
UL 
21.4 
86.1 
31.7 
47.8 
49.1 
99.9 
65.1 
98.2 
34.5 
97.2 
28.0 
82.8 
34.3 
98.3 
41.0 
72.5 
LL 
1.7 
58.0 
3.9 
11.6 
8.7 
78.1 
9.9 
57.2 
6.8 
76.3 
1.1 
40.7 
7.7 
78.6 
8.3 
33.9 
% 
7.9 
73.8 
13.8 
26.9 
25.0 
95.7 
33.3 
85.7 
17.6 
90.0 
8.7 
63.6 
18.4 
92.1 
21.4 
53.6 
95% CI 
Value 
2.7 
23.7 
3.2 
5.9 
3.3 
95.0 
5.7 
25.7 
4.9 
284.0 
3.0 
49.6 
3.6 
55.7 
4.0 
10.8 
LL 
2.1 
14.8 
2.0 
3.2 
2.1 
53.6 
2.6 
12.6 
2.5 
154.5 
1.6 
14.9 
2.3 
35.9 
2.4 
5.3 
UL 
3.4 
38.1 
5.0 
11.0 
5.1 
168.5 
12.4 
52.7 
9.9 
522.0 
5.4 
165.4 
5.6 
86.5 
6.8 
21.9 
Nimenrix 
Page 29/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  hSBA  in  Toddlers  the  D30  seropositivity  rates  ranged  from  56.7%  for  MenW  3193  to  100%  for 
MenC in the ACWY-TT group. The GMT was 6.7-fold higher vs. Meningitec.  
Percentages with hSBA titres ≥ 1:4 and 1:8 and GMTs (ATP aged 12 to 14 months) 
Antibody 
hSBA-MenA L10 
Group 
Form 3T 
Ctrl T 
hSBA-MenC 
Form 3T 
hSBA-MenW-135  
MP 
Ctrl T 
Form 3T 
Ctrl T 
hSBA-MenY 
Form 3T 
Ctrl T 
 1:4 
95% CI 
LL 
UL 
0.7  18.7 
 1:8 
95% CI 
UL  Value 
LL 
0.1  14.5 
% 
% 
Timing  N 
5.6 
2.1 
2.8 
36 
PRE 
92.9  76.5  99.1  89.3  71.8  97.7  39.8 
28 
PI(M1) 
1.5  19.5 
2.1 
0.0 
7.1 
0.0 
8.4 
42 
PRE 
2.6 
9.4 
3.5  29.0 
12.5 
2.0  25.0 
32 
PI(M1) 
0.0  26.5 
0.0 
2.2 
0.2  38.5 
8.3 
12 
PRE 
76.8  100  197.8 
100  76.8  100 
100 
14 
PI(M1) 
2.1 
0.0  23.2 
0.0 
0.2  33.9 
7.1 
14 
PRE 
85.7  57.2  98.2  78.6  49.2  95.3  29.7 
14 
PI(M1) 
0.7  19.7 
34 
PRE 
2.1 
2.9 
5.9 
63.1  93.9  82.1  63.1  93.9  132.4 
28  82.1 
PI(M1) 
2.0 
8.8 
0.0 
0.0 
40 
PRE 
2.5 
0.1  16.2 
3.1 
32 
PI(M1) 
0.7  20.2 
33 
PRE 
2.4 
6.1 
58.9  90.4  71.0  52.0  85.8  19.7 
31  77.4 
PI(M1) 
2.5 
2.6  22.1 
9.3 
43 
PRE 
2.3 
0.7  19.7 
5.9 
34 
PI(M1) 
8.8 
0.0 
0.1  16.2 
0.1  15.8 
1.5  19.1 
0.1  15.3 
0.0 
3.1 
3.0 
0.1  15.3 
7.0 
2.9 
GMT 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
2.4 
1.9 
64.4 
24.6 
2.3 
2.0 
3.6 
2.0 
1.8 
2.7 
163.7  238.9 
2.5 
1.9 
74.5 
11.9 
1.9 
2.4 
56.6  310.1 
2.0 
2.0 
3.8 
1.6 
3.2 
1.8 
36.3 
10.6 
3.1 
1.9 
2.7 
1.9 
rSBA and hSBA antibody persistence data at M15 showed that both rSBA and hSBA  titres in Children 
were higher for the conjugate although the actual rates and GMTs were much lower when using hSBA. 
In the ACWY-TT group > 90% had hSBA titres  1:8 for MenC, Y and W-135 but only 20.8% for MenA. 
Responses to challenge with one-fifth of a dose of Mencevax  
In the Toddlers cohort at M15 there were advantages for the ACWY-TT group even against MenC based 
on  rSBA.  The  rSBA  GMTs  one  month  after  the  challenge  dose  were  higher  than  at  one  month  after 
ACWY-TT. Small increases in rSBA GMTs were also observed in subjects primed with Meningitec.  
rSBA titres and GMTs (ATP cohort for immune memory) 
 1:8 
 1:128 
GMT 
N 
n 
% 
95% CI 
LL 
UL 
n 
% 
95% CI 
LL 
UL 
value 
95% CI 
LL 
UL 
Antibody 
Group 
rSBA-MENA L10 
ACWY-TT 
Timing 
PII(M15)  32 
PIII(M16)  25 
Meningitec  PII(M15)  26 
PIII(M16)  30 
rSBA -MENC 
ACWY-TT  PII(M15)  31 
PIII(M16)  32 
Meningitec  PII(M15)  28 
PIII(M16)  30 
rSBA-MENW-135 MP 
ACWY-TT 
PII(M15) 
32 
PIII(M16)  32 
PII(M15) 
29 
PIII(M16)  30 
PII(M15) 
32 
PIII(M16)  32 
Meningitec 
rSBA-MENY 
ACWY-TT 
Nimenrix 
31 
25 
9 
30 
29 
32 
19 
30 
96.9 
100 
34.6 
100 
93.5 
100 
67.9 
100 
83.8 
86.3 
17.2 
88.4 
78.6 
89.1 
47.6 
88.4 
99.9 
100 
55.7 
100 
99.2 
100 
84.1 
100 
29 
25 
9 
27 
21 
32 
8 
30 
90.6 
100 
34.6 
90.0 
67.7 
100 
28.6 
100 
75.0 
86.3 
17.2 
73.5 
48.6 
89.1 
13.2 
88.4 
98.0 
100 
55.7 
97.9 
83.3 
100 
48.7 
100 
544.0 
3321.9* 
17.7 
514.1 
174.0 
5965.7 
34.4 
5265.2 
325.0 
2294.2 
7.5 
354.8 
104.8 
4128.4 
15.8 
3437.3 
910.7 
4810.0 
41.7 
744.8 
288.9 
8620.7 
75.3 
8065.1 
31 
32 
13 
30 
31 
32 
96.9 
100 
44.8 
100 
96.9 
100 
83.8 
89.1 
26.4 
88.4 
83.8 
89.1 
99.9 
100 
64.3 
100 
99.9 
100 
28 
32 
9 
29 
29 
32 
87.5 
100 
31.0 
96.7 
90.6 
100 
71.0 
89.1 
15.3 
82.8 
96.5 
100 
50.8 
99.9 
643.8 
394.1 
11058.1*  8587.2 
22.1 
1386.1 
10.4 
935.6 
1051.8 
14239.9 
47.0 
2053.6 
75.0 
89.1 
98.0 
100 
439.8 
5736.6* 
274.0 
4215.9 
705.9 
7806.0 
Page 30/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meningitec 
PII(M15) 
28 
PIII(M16)  30 
20 
29 
71.4 
96.7 
51.3 
82.8 
86.8 
99.9 
11 
28 
39.3 
93.3 
21.5 
77.9 
59.4 
99.2 
58.1 
546.5 
27.8 
324.0 
121.4 
921.8 
* Statistically significant higher value compared to the control group. 
The hSBA M15 persistence data in Toddlers also showed advantages for the conjugate vaccine 
although the difference for MenA was numerically small and not significant. There was evidence of a 
modest increase in hSBA titers between M1 and M15for MenW and MenY in the ACWY-TT group. The 
hSBA data after the challenge dose showed that the Meningitec group had a good response to MenC 
that was very comparable to that in the ACWY-TT group. The M16 MenC GMTs were very much higher 
than the M1 GMTs in both vaccine groups. However, there was a negligible response to MenA, W or Y 
in the group primed only with Meningitec compared to very marked responses in the ACWY-TT group 
and final GMTs that were all very markedly higher than at M1. 
hSBA titres and GMTs (ATP cohort for immune memory) 
 1:4 
 1:8 
GMT 
95% CI 
UL 
4.0 
95% CI 
95% CI 
16 
MenW 
Meningitec 
Meningitec 
LL  UL  value 
LL  UL  n  % 
ACWY-TT  PII(M15
Antibody 
MenA 
MenC 
LL 
1.9 
243.6  2024.8 
1.8 
1.7 
99.1 
Group 
Timing  N 
ACWY-TT  PII(M15)  15 
PIII(M16)  13 
PII(M15)  18 
PIII(M16)  13 
ACWY-TT  PII(M15)  21 
PIII(M16)  19 
PII(M15)  19 
14 
PIII(M1
6) 
n  % 
3  20.0  4.3  48.1  1  6.7  0.2  31.9  2.7 
13  100*  75.3  100  13  100*  75.3  100  702.3* 
2.6 
1  5.6  0.1  27.3  1  5.6  0.1  27.3  2.2 
4.4 
2  15.4  1.9  45.4  2  15.4  1.9  45.4  2.7 
20  95.2  76.2  99.9  20  95.2  76.2  99.9  190.6 
366.5 
19  100  82.4  100  19  100  82.4  100  3973.8  2357.8 6697.2 
13  68.4  43.4  87.4  13  68.4  43.4  87.4  22.4 
10
10
1
1
4 
4 
0 
0 
10
10
1
1
6 
6 
0 
0 
10
1
10
1
3 
3 
0* 
0* 
0  0.
0  0.
0 
0 
2  20
2  20
.0 
.0 
95
95
2
2
.2 
.2 
0 
0 
10
10
1
1
0* 
0* 
9 
9 
3  16
3  16
.7 
.7 
3  21
3  21
.4 
.4 
76
.8 
79
.4 
75
.3 
0.
0 
2.
5 
76
.2 
82
.4 
3.
6 
4.
7 
* Statistically significant HIGHER value compared to the control group. 
) 
PIII(M1
6) 
PII(M15
) 
PIII(M1
6) 
) 
PIII(M1
6) 
PII(M15
) 
PIII(M1
6) 
76
.8 
79
.4 
75
.3 
0.
0 
2.
5 
76
.2 
82
.4 
3.
6 
4.
7 
10
0 
10
0 
10
0 
24
.7 
55
.6 
99
.9 
10
0 
41
.4 
50
.8 
10
0 
10
0 
10
0 
24
.7 
55
.6 
99
.9 
10
0 
41
.4 
50
.8 
9.2 
186
5.6 
165.
1 
854
6.0 
2.0 
54.9 
6996.
4 
565.5 
ACWY-TT  PII(M15
3612.
9 
305.6 
14527
.7* 
2.0 
7764.
5 
6.5 
4905.
3* 
3.4 
2469
6.5 
2.0 
309
8.9 
1.7 
Meningitec 
Meningitec 
MenY 
164.1 
19.8 
89.7 
49.0 
1.3 
1.8 
5.0 
8.0 
3.8 
13 
13 
21 
10 
19 
14 
18 
The D0 seropositivity rates for group-specific IgG were low in both age strata (0-8.3% in Toddlers and 
0-19% in Children). On D30 most Children in all four ACWY-TT groups were seropositive for each 
meningococcal group. The GMCs for MenA were significantly higher after ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax but 
the GMCs were lower vs. control against MenW.  
In Toddlers at D30 the proportions with  0.3 g/ml and  2.0 g/ml against MenC were comparable 
across the vaccine groups (97.7%-100% and 93.3%-100%, respectively) while GMCs were 
significantly higher for ACWY-TT. 
Nimenrix 
Page 31/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A high percentage of children had ≥ 0.1 IU/ml anti-TT at D0 (84.8%-96.1%). On D30 the rates were 
100% and GMCs had increased by 20.3- to 35.5-fold in the four ACWY-TT groups but were essentially 
unchanged in the control group. Similarly, 90.2%-97.8% of Toddlers were already seroprotected at D0 
with D30 rates of 100% and increments in GMCs by 9.7- to 15.1-fold in the ACWY-TT groups but no 
appreciable change in the control group.  
2.5.2.  Main studies  
In this section the clinical studies have been grouped as follows: 
1.  ACWY-TT vs. unconjugated ACWY (Mencevax) and/or vs. a licensed conjugated MenC vaccine 
(Meningitec or Menjugate) 
2.  ACWY-TT vs. licensed conjugated ACWY-DT vaccine (Menactra) 
3.  ACWY-TT administered after previous unconjugated ACWY 
4.  Lot consistency study (Lot A with or without Fluarix; ACWY control) 
5.  Co-administration studies (with Twinrix, Priorix, Infanrix hexa and Synflorix) 
6.  Uncontrolled study in infants (one vs. two doses ACWY-TT) 
Some general features of these studies are described below. 
Study Participants  
With the exception of study 021, it was generally required that subjects should not have received prior 
vaccination against meningococci of groups ACWY within the last 5 years for unconjugated and no 
previous conjugated vaccine or have any history of meningococcal infection. The populations were: 
 
Total Vaccinated Cohort = all vaccinated subjects for whom data (safety or immunogenicity) were 
available. The TVC analyses were performed per treatment actually administered. 
 
The ATP Cohort = all evaluable subjects (i.e. meeting eligibility criteria and good protocol 
adherence) 
Treatments 
All subjects randomised to the ACWY-TT groups received a single dose by intramuscular injection into 
the non-dominant upper arm except in studies 039, 040, 055 and 080 where toddlers aged 12-23 
months were vaccinated into the thigh. In studies 027 and 10PN-PD-DIT-014, the investigators were 
instructed to vaccinate either in the thigh or in the deltoid. 
Objectives 
In each study that compared ACWY-TT with Mencevax and/or a licensed MenC conjugate (MenCC) 
vaccine the primary objective(s) were: 
1.  To demonstrate non-inferiority of the rSBA vaccine response rate to ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax where 
a response was defined as: 
 
 
For initially seronegative subjects, post vaccination rSBA titre ≥ 1:32 
For initially seropositive subjects a ≥4-fold increases in rSBA titre from pre to post vaccination 
2.  To demonstrate non-inferiority of % with rSBA titres > 1:8 for ACWY-TT vs. licensed MenCC  
Nimenrix 
Page 32/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the study vs. Menactra the primary objective was: 
 
To compare the immune responses to the ACWY-TT vaccine and Menactra in terms of % with hSBA 
titres ≥ 1:8 against each meningococcal group. 
In the study of the effects of prior unconjugated quadrivalent vaccine the primary objective was: 
 
To evaluate the immunogenicity of ACWY-TT when given between 30 and 42 months after a 
priming dose of Mencevax that had been administered at age 2–30 years compared to age-strata 
matched subjects with no previous meningococcal vaccine within 10 years. 
Other features 
1.  The sample size calculations varied by study, taking into account the randomisation ratio and any 
planned stratification of enrolment as well as the very variable pre-defined acceptance criteria, and 
are mentioned by study below.  
2.  Treatment allocation (using ratios that varied by study as described below) used a Central 
Randomisation call-in System on internet (SBIR). 
3.  Studies were open label because the test and control vaccines had different appearances and, in 
studies with Mencevax as the control, it was given via a different route (subcutaneously) compared 
to the ACWY-TT vaccine (intramuscular). Laboratories performed serological testing in a blinded 
fashion. In the lot to lot consistency there was blinding according to lot received.  
Randomisation 
All studies were randomised, except persistence studies and study MenACWY-TT-021. 
A randomisation list was generated centrally using a standard SAS® (Statistical Analysis System) 
program and was used to number the vaccines. A randomisation blocking scheme was used to ensure 
that the balance between treatments was maintained. A treatment number uniquely identified the 
vaccine doses to be administered to the same subject. 
Treatment allocation at the investigator site was performed via internet using central randomisation 
system. The randomisation algorithm used a minimisation procedure accounting for centre, and for age 
stratum (except in studies MenACWY-TT-039, -040, -080, and 10PN-PD-DIT-014 that were not 
stratified according to the age of the subjects).  
Blinding (masking) 
The lot-to-lot consistency in study MenACWY-TT-035 was evaluated in a double-blind manner. Studies 
MenACWY-TT-012, and -013 were double-blind with regard to the different formulations of the 
MenACWY-TT vaccine tested in these studies and open with respect to MenACWY-TT or control vaccine 
(Meningitec or Mencevax). 
In study MenACWY-TT-052, the comparison with Menactra in the 11-25 years age strata was 
performed in a single-blind manner due to difference in presentation of both vaccines (Menactra being 
a liquid vaccine and MenACWY-TT a lyophilised vaccine). 
All other studies were conducted in an open manner due to at least one of the following reasons: 
1.  Difference in administration route between the study vaccine and the control vaccine 
Nimenrix 
Page 33/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Difference in administration schedules between study groups 
3.  Difference in vaccine presentation 
4.  Same vaccine administered to all subjects 
Statistical methods 
For all MenACWY-TT studies, the primary analysis of immunogenicity was conducted on the according-
to-protocol (ATP) cohorts. 
The ATP cohorts for immunogenicity were defined differently according to the timing of the 
immunogenicity endpoint. 
1.  For the analysis of primary vaccination trial and the analysis of the induction of immune memory, 
the ATP cohort of immunogenicity was defined as all evaluable subjects (i.e. those meeting all 
eligibility criteria, complying with the procedures and intervals defined in the protocol, with no 
elimination criteria during the study) who had assay results available for antibodies against at least 
one study vaccine antigen after vaccination. 
2.  For the analysis of persistence studies, the ATP cohort for persistence included subjects who had 
assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen at the persistence 
time point, and excluded subjects who did not receive their study vaccine(s) according to the 
planned assignment, subjects who had received a vaccine not specified or forbidden by the 
protocol, subjects in whom the randomisation code had been broken, subjects who received 
additional doses of meningococcal vaccines outside of the study, subjects who developed 
meningococcal disease and subject who were excluded from the ATP cohort in the primary study 
and in all previous persistence time points, unless the reason for exclusion was either non-
compliance with the protocol-defined serum sampling windows or a lack of availability of 
immunogenicity results.Whenever more than 5% of the subjects with serological results were 
excluded from the ATP cohort, the primary analysis was complemented by an analysis based on all 
vaccinated subjects with immunogenicity results available.  
Non-inferiority to licensed vaccines 
Demonstration of non-inferiority of the serogroup A, C, W-135 and Y complement mediated 
bactericidal antibody response elicited by the MenACWY-TT vaccine compared to the licensed plain 
polysaccharide vaccine Mencevax was a co-primary objective of Phase III studies MenACWY-TT-035 
(18-55 years of age), -036 (11-17 years of age), and -038 (2-10 years of age). In these trials, 
differences between groups (ACWY-TT minus Mencevax), in terms of percentage of subjects with rSBA 
vaccine response, and their 95% CIs were computed. Non-inferiority was demonstrated if for each 
serogroup, the lower limits of the CI was greater than or equal to the pre-defined clinical limit of -10%. 
A 10% delta as the limit for non-inferiority in studies using Mencevax as control is considered as 
clinically acceptable, given the relatively low response elicited by this vaccine to serogroups A, W-135 
and Y. A lower response rate implies a larger sample size to meet a given non-inferiority criterion. For 
these reasons, and because of the advantages conferred by the conjugated vaccine compared to 
currently licensed plain polysaccharide vaccines, the choice of a 10% limit is considered as clinically 
acceptable. This approach was accepted by CHMP during 2007 Scientific Advice. 
Demonstration of non-inferiority of serogroup C complement-mediated bactericidal antibody response 
elicited by the MenACWY-TT vaccine compared to licensed monovalent MenC vaccines (Meningitec or 
Nimenrix 
Page 34/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Menjugate) was a co-primary objective of the Phase III studies MenACWY-TT-039 and -081. In study 
MenACWY-TT-039, differences between groups (ACWY-TT minus Meningitec were computed in terms of 
percentage of subjects with rSBA-MenC titres > 8, and their 95% CIs. In study MenACWY-TT-081, 
differences between groups (ACWY-TT minus Menjugate), in terms of vaccine response, and their 95% 
CIs were computed. The non-inferiority objective was met if the lower limit of the CI was greater than 
or equal to the pre-defined clinical limit of -10%. The choice of a 10% delta may be questioned, given 
the high percentage of Meningitec vaccine recipients with rSBA-MenC titer ≥ 8 in the -039 study 
(97.5%) and the high percentage of Menjugate vaccinees who developed a vaccine response in the -
081 study (95.7%). In view of the other potential benefit conferred by the MenACWY-TT vaccine with 
respect to protection against other meningococcal serogroups, the choice of a 10% delta is considered 
as clinically appropriate, and in line with the EMEA guideline on the choice of the non-inferiority margin 
(EMEA/CPMP/EWP/2158/99). 
Results 
ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax (ACWY) and/or vs. licensed conjugate MenC vaccine  
Studies in the initial MAA as shown in the table, covered ages 2-55 years vs. Mencevax, 2-10 years vs. 
Menjugate (up to 10 years) and 12-23 months vs. Meningitec. One additional study in adults (093) was 
reported during the procedure.  
Study 
MenACWY-TT-015/016/017 
(Philippines, Saudi Arabia) 
016 + 017  
Persistence at 12 and 24 months 
MenACWY-TT-036/043 
(India, Taiwan,  Philippines) 
043 Persistence at 24 months 
MenACWY-TT-035 
(Philippines, Lebanon) 
MenACWY-TT-027/028/029 
(Finland) 
028 + 029  
Persistence at 12 and 24 months 
Population 
Adolescents 
Adults 
Stratified: 
  11 to 17 years 
  18-55 years 
Adolescents 
11-17 years 
Stratified: 
 
 
 
Adults  
18-55 years 
11-13 years 
14-15 years 
16-17 years 
Children  
1-10 years 
Stratified: 
 
 
 
1- <2 years 
2- <6 years 
6- <11 years 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT  
Mencevax ACWY  
MenACWY-TT   
Mencevax ACWY 
MenACWY-TT (Lot A, B or C) 
MenACWY-TT (Lot A) + Fluarix 
Mencevax  
MenACWY-TT   
Meningitec 1- <2 years   
Mencevax ACWY  
2- <6 years and  
6- <11 years 
MenACWY-TT-038 
(India, Lebanon, Philippines, Saudi 
Arabia)  
MenACWY-TT-039/048 
(Finland) 
048 Persistence at 24 months 
Children 
2-10 years 
Toddlers 
12-23 months 
MenACWY-TT-081 
(Germany, France) 
Children 
2-10 years of age 
MenACWY-TT 
Mencevax ACWY 
MenACWY-TT+MMRV 
MenACWY-TT  
Meningitec 
MMRV 
MenACWY-TT 
Menjugate 
Nimenrix 
Page 35/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 015/016/17  Adults and adolescents vs. ACWY 
Of the 500 subjects enrolled and vaccinated 497 (372 and 125 per group) completed the initial study 
while 455 subjects (341 and 114) were included in the According to Protocol Cohort for 
Immunogenicity (ATP-I) cohort. The mean age at baseline was 18.3 years, 66% were 11-17 years and 
87% were of Asian - South East Asian heritage. 
The applicant concluded that non-inferiority of the conjugate vs. Mencevax was demonstrated for each 
of the four meningococcal groups based on 95% CI around the differences in D30 response rates that 
were within -4%. Response rates to each meningococcal group in the subsets seropositive at baseline 
were numerically higher with the conjugate vaccine.  
Difference between groups in percentage responders (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Pre-vaccination status 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
ACWY-TT 
n 
13 
226
239
70 
236
306
79 
235
314
24 
282
306
N 
% 
13 
100 
86 
81.9 
99 
82.7 
17 
98.6 
93.3 
96 
94.4  113
20 
98.8 
89 
95.5 
96.3  109
100 
8 
92.5  105
93.0  113
N 
13 
276
289
71 
253
324
80 
246
326
24 
305
329
Difference (ACWY-TT 
minus MenPS) 
95% CI 
% 
0.00 
16.77 
13.00 
-1.41 
4.74 
4.18 
-1.25 
5.64 
4.58 
0.00 
8.65 
8.05 
LL 
- 
- 
3.52 
- 
- 
-1.03 
- 
- 
-0.07 
- 
- 
1.72 
UL 
- 
- 
23.50 
- 
- 
11.36 
- 
- 
11.49 
- 
- 
16.17 
MenPS 
n 
13 
56 
69 
17 
85 
102
20 
80 
100
8 
88 
96 
% 
100 
65.1 
69.7 
100 
88.5 
90.3 
100 
89.9 
91.7 
100 
83.8 
85.0 
In the older stratum the 95% CI were within -8% except for MenC (-12.6%) for which the response 
rate among the baseline seropositive subset was slightly higher for the control vaccine (94.6% vs. 
88.4%).    
At D0 rates for rSBA titres  1:8 ranged from 75.5% (MenW in ACWY-TT group) to 95.1% (MenA in 
ACWY-TT group). One month after vaccination, the percentages with  1:128 increased to at least 
98.2% with no statistically significant differences between the two vaccines. The rSBA GMT values 
increased at least 9-fold after vaccination and GMTs adjusted for pre-vaccination measurements were 
statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-TT group. In addition, GMTs were statistically significantly 
higher in the conjugate vaccine group for MenA, W and Y in both age strata. For MenC the GMT was 
significantly higher in the conjugate vaccine group for those aged 11 to 17 years and numerically 
higher for those aged 18 to 55 years. 
At Y1 and Y2 GMTs had dropped in all vaccine and age sub-groups but were still above baseline and 
the great majority had titres ≥1:128 against each meningococcal group. At least numerical advantages 
in terms of GMTs were maintained for the ACWY-TT group except against MenC in subjects aged 18-55 
years. In addition, with the exception of MenC (both vaccines) and MenW (control group), GMTs were 
at least numerically higher in the younger age stratum. 
Nimenrix 
Page 36/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was an additional comparative analysis for rSBA at GSK vs. UK HPA based on: 
  SELHPA: all subjects with Y2 samples tested by HPA and for these subjects at earlier time points 
  SELGSK: results from GSK’s rSBA for subjects with samples tested by HPA 
At all times the GSK assay gave higher values than the HPA assay but there was a particularly large 
difference in the pre-vaccination titres and also for the anti-W and anti-Y titres up to Y2. Nevertheless, 
while post-vaccination titres were also higher using the GSK assay, the post-vaccination differences 
between groups considerably favoured the ACWY-TT vaccine using the HPA and GSK assays as shown 
below. The comparisons of GMTs showed the same pattern. 
rSBA 2 years after vaccination (ATP cohort for persistence Year 2, SELHPA) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Type 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
ACWY-TT 
N 
99 
99 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
n 
94 
92 
98 
86 
84 
80 
86 
82 
% 
94.9 
92.9 
98.0 
86.0 
84.0 
80.0 
86.0 
82.0 
N 
98 
98 
99 
99 
100 
100 
100 
100 
MenPS 
n 
90 
86 
86 
79 
24 
19 
44 
36 
% 
91.8 
87.8 
86.9 
79.8 
24.0 
19.0 
44.0 
36.0 
Difference 
(ACWY-TT-MenPS) 
95% CI 
UL 
10.94 
14.08 
19.47 
16.89 
69.90 
70.81 
53.22 
57.20 
LL 
-4.26 
-3.30 
4.29 
-4.39 
47.87 
48.88 
29.54 
33.19 
% 
3.11 
5.17 
11.13 
6.20 
60.00 
61.00 
42.00 
46.00 
rSBA 2 years after vaccination (ATP cohort for persistence Year 2, SELGSK) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Type 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
1:8 
1:128 
ACWY-TT 
N 
99 
99 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
n 
99 
98 
99 
96 
99 
98 
100 
99 
% 
100 
99.0 
99.0 
96.0 
99.0 
98.0 
100 
99.0 
N 
98 
98 
99 
99 
100 
100 
100 
100 
MenPS 
n 
97 
94 
97 
91 
91 
81 
99 
94 
% 
99.0 
95.9 
98.0 
91.9 
91.0 
81.0 
99.0 
94.0 
Difference 
ACWY-TT-MenPS 
95% CI 
UL 
5.57 
9.17 
6.20 
11.70 
15.38 
26.07 
5.47 
11.63 
LL 
-2.75 
-1.87 
-3.64 
-2.88 
2.41 
9.34 
-2.74 
-0.14 
% 
1.02 
3.07 
1.02 
4.08 
8.00 
17.00 
1.00 
5.00 
The percentages with anti-PS concentrations  0.3 g/mL at D0 were 12.3% to 24.5% except for anti-
PSA (80.7% and 84.1% per group). At M1 percentages with  2.0 g/mL were at least 98.8% except 
for anti-PSW-135 in the ACWY-TT group (92.6%) and there were no statistically significant differences 
between vaccine groups. The GMC values increased at least 31-fold after vaccination. The anti-PSA 
GMC was statistically significantly higher and the anti-PSC GMC (each GMC adjusted for pre-
vaccination measurements) was statistically significantly lower in the ACWY-TT group. 
At least 94.0% in each treatment group retained anti-PS  0.3 g/mL against each meningococcal 
group at M24 but the percentages with  2.0 g/mL were statistically significantly lower in the ACWY-
TT group. Also, the percentage with anti-PSC  0.3 g/mL was significantly lower in the ACWY-TT 
group. The GMCs at Month 24 were all above baseline but were statistically significantly lower in the 
ACWY-TT group for each meningococcal group. This finding also applied in the 11 to 17 years age 
stratum but only to the anti-PSC GMC comparison in the 18 to 55 years age stratum. 
At D0 anti-TT  0.1 IU/mL rates were 67.4% in ACWY-TT group and 60.0% in Mencevax group. At M1 
the rate was 95.6% in ACWY-TT group and GMC increased 28-fold. There was no appreciable change in 
the control group. 
Nimenrix 
Page 37/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 036/043 
Adolescents vs. ACWY 
Of the 1025 subjects enrolled and vaccinated 1016 completed the study while 1012 were included in 
the ATP cohort for immunogenicity. The mean age was 14.3 years, 53% were female and the study 
population was of South, East and Southeast Asian heritage. The applicant concluded that non-
inferiority of ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax was demonstrated for all four meningococcal groups based on 
95% CI around the differences in response rates that were within -1.8%.  
Vaccine response rates one month after the vaccination (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Difference in response 
rate (ACWY-TT-MenPS)
Group 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Pre-vaccination 
status 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
ACWY-TT 
N 
n 
% 
N 
MenPS 
n 
% 
% 
LL 
UL 
95% CI 
103 
512 
615 
291 
428 
719 
135 
582 
717 
67 
670 
737 
103 
422 
525 
288 
410 
698 
135 
557 
692 
67 
619 
686 
100 
82.4 
85.4* 
99.0 
95.8 
97.1 
100 
95.7 
96.5* 
100 
92.4 
93.1* 
46 
169 
215 
98 
139 
237 
45 
197 
242 
36 
210 
246 
46 
125 
171 
98 
131 
229 
45 
168 
213 
36 
156 
192 
100 
74.0 
79.5 
100 
94.2 
96.6 
100 
85.3 
88.0 
100 
74.3 
78.0 
0.00 
8.46 
5.83 
-1.03 
1.55 
0.45 
0.00 
10.43 
8.50 
0.00 
18.10 
15.03 
- 
- 
0.11 
- 
- 
-1.80 
- 
- 
4.66 
- 
- 
9.90 
- 
- 
12.28 
- 
- 
3.75 
- 
- 
13.35 
- 
- 
20.87 
Pre-vaccination percentages of subjects with rSBA titres  1:8 varied from 58.6%-59.4% for 
rSBA-MenC to 85.4%-90.9% for rSBA-MenY. One month after vaccination almost all subjects had titres 
 1:128 for the four meningococcal groups. The rSBA GMTs increased in ACWY-TT and control subjects 
by 16.4- to 274.3-fold following vaccination and were significantly higher in the ACWY-TT group. 
Adjusted GMT ratios between groups one month post-dose (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC  
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY  
Group 
ACWY-TT 
MenPS 
Adjusted GMT ratio  
(ACWY-TT / MenPS ) 
95% CI 
N 
615 
719 
717 
737 
Adjusted 
GMT 
6218.8 
12889.7 
8576.1 
14020.1 
N 
Adjusted GMT
Value 
LL 
UL 
215 
237 
242 
246 
3362.0 
8406.1 
2735.9 
5372.7 
1.85 
1.53 
3.13 
2.61 
1.62 
1.27 
2.72 
2.28 
2.11 
1.85 
3.62 
2.98 
A subset of samples was also tested by rSBA at HPA. At M24 the GSK and HPA data showed that rSBA 
percentages with  1:128 and GMTs were statistically significantly higher for the ACWY-TT group for 
MenA, W and Y. The same pattern applied for MenC but the differences did not reach significance.  
In both vaccine groups, the M1 percentages with  0.3 g/mL increased to 98.7%-100.0% across the 
two vaccine groups while  2.0 g/mL was achieved in 97.6%-100.0% for MenA, C and Y and 93.7%-
Nimenrix 
Page 38/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
94.8% for MenW-135. There was a statistically significantly higher anti-PSA GMC and lower anti-PSC 
GMC in the ACWY-TT group compared to the Mencevax group. 
At M0 anti-TT ≥ 0.1 IU/mL rates were 67.4% and 72.2% in the ACWY-TT and Mencevax groups, 
respectively. The GMC increased by 26.2-fold and 97.8% had ≥ 0.1 IU/mL in the ACWY-TT group at 
M1 with no appreciable change in the Mencevax group. 
The applicant conducted a sensitivity analysis that excluded the data from 392 subjects vaccinated 
with ACWY-TT (294) or Mencevax (98) in one study centre. Removing data from this site from the 
study database gave results comparable to those for the total study population. 
rSBA titres and GMTs (ATP cohort for immunogenicity, without subjects from impacted 
study centre) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA  
Group 
ACWY-TT 
MenPS 
rSBA-MenC 
ACWY-TT 
MenPS 
rSBA-MenW  
ACWY-TT 
MenPS 
rSBA-MenY 
ACWY-TT 
MenPS 
Timing 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
PRE 
P1(M1) 
N 
375 
460 
130 
154 
440 
462 
144 
154 
435 
465 
149 
154 
454 
464 
152 
154 
≥ 8  
95% CI 
≥ 128  
95% CI 
GMT 
95% CI 
n 
307 
460 
103 
154 
257 
460 
89 
154 
344 
463 
119 
154 
411 
463 
127 
154 
% 
81.9
100 
79.2
100 
58.4
99.6
61.8
100 
79.1
99.6
79.9
100 
90.5
99.8
83.6
100 
LL 
77.6
99.2
71.2
97.6
53.6
98.4
53.3
97.6
75.0
98.5
72.5
97.6
87.5
98.8
76.7
97.6
UL 
85.6
100 
85.8
100 
63.1
99.9
69.8
100 
82.8
99.9
86.0
100 
93.1
100 
89.1
100 
n 
280 
459 
93 
154 
191 
459 
61 
154 
255 
463 
83 
154 
367 
463 
117 
154 
LL 
% 
74.7  69.9
99.8  98.8
71.5  63.0
100 
97.6
43.4  38.7
99.4  98.1
42.4  34.2
100 
97.6
58.6  53.8
99.6  98.5
55.7  47.3
100 
97.6
80.8  76.9
99.8  98.8
77.0  69.5
97.6
100 
UL 
79.0
100 
79.1
100 
48.2
99.9
50.9
100 
63.3
99.9
63.8
100 
84.4
100 
83.4
100 
value 
195.9 
6881.3 
191.9 
3802.4 
47.1 
10776.1 
54.4 
8672.9 
107.7 
9634.0 
105.2 
3281.6 
356.7 
15654.6 
316.3 
5949.8 
LL 
159.2 
6374.3 
131.0 
3339.3 
38.1 
9477.9 
37.2 
6856.6 
89.6 
8699.0 
77.1 
2824.9 
301.0 
14314.0 
220.7 
5066.2 
UL 
241.1 
7428.6 
281.2 
4329.7 
58.3 
12252.0 
79.6 
10970.3 
129.3 
10669.5 
143.6 
3812.2 
422.6 
17120.8 
453.4 
6987.7 
In addition, the applicant provided a full complement of safety and immunogenicity tables that 
excluded the data from this study site. Exclusion of these data had no substantial impact on the 
findings or conclusions. 
Study 027/028/029  Children 1-10 years vs. Meningitec (<2 y) or ACWY (2-10 y) 
Children aged 1- <2 years 
The  applicant  concluded  non-inferiority  of  ACWY-TT  vs.  Meningitec  for  anti-MenC  rSBA  responses 
based on a lower 95% CI around the difference in percentages with titres ≥1:8 of -0.27%.  
Antibody 
Cut-off 
N 
ACWY<2 
n 
% 
MenCCRM 
% 
n 
N 
% 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
rSBA-MenC 
1:8 
220 
220 
100 
68 
67 
98.5  1.47 
-0.27  7.89 
Difference in percentage 
(ACWY<2 minus MenCCRM) 
Pre-vaccination rates for rSBA 1:8 in the ACWY-TT and Meningitec groups were 42.4% and 40.0%, 
respectively, for MenA, 39.4% and 31.1% for MenC, 28.4% and 38.7% for MenW-135 and 55.3% and 
61.2% for MenY. At M1 almost all in the ACWY-TT group had rSBA titres 1:128 for each of the four 
Nimenrix 
Page 39/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meningococcal groups and percentages with 1:128 and GMTs were all significantly higher for ACWY-
TT recipients.   
All previously seronegative subjects given ACWY-TT responded to each meningococcal group and all 
subjects seronegative for MenC who received Meningitec had a vaccine response. Among those who 
were seropositive at baseline the response rates were 77% and 79% for MenC. Rates in baseline 
seropositive subjects that received ACWY-TT were 92.6% for MenA and 100% for W135 and Y.  
At M24 rSBA-MenC titres  1:8 occurred for 93.9% to 99.5% in the ACWY-TT group vs. 73.1% in the 
Meningitec group while  1:128 was observed in 56% and 33% in respective vaccine groups. 
Percentages with rSBA titres 1:128 and GMTs were statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-TT 
subjects for each meningococcal group.  
The hSBA data up to M12 (see below) showed that < 5% of subjects were seropositive to each 
meningococcal group at D0. At M12, 93.5% to 98.3% of the ACWY-TT subjects had hSBA titres  1:8 
for MenC, W-135 and Y but for hSBA-MenA the percentage was 20.4%. In the Meningitec group 53.1% 
had hSBA-MenC titres  1:8 but < 12% had such titres to the other meningococcal groups. The M12 
GMTs for the ACWY-TT subjects against MenC, W-135 and Y were 88.7, 225.1 and 105.1, respectively, 
but only 3.6 for MenA. In the Meningitec group, the hSBA-MenC GMT was 12.2. 
Percentages of subjects with hSBA-MenW-135 and hSBA-MenY titres  1:4 and  1:8 and the GMTs 
were higher at M12 than at M1. Percentages with hSBA titres  1:4 and  1:8 and GMTs adjusted for 
baseline titre for the four meningococcal groups were statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-TT 
group vs. the control group that received only Meningitec. 
At D0 < 10% had anti-PS for any meningococcal group but at M1 >90% of ACWY-TT subjects had 
 2.0 g/ml against each meningococcal group. The GMC for anti-MenC was higher in the ACWY-TT 
group with non-overlapping 95% CI (13.47 vs. 8.29 g/ml after Meningitec). At M24 percentages with 
 0.3 g/mL and GMCs against each meningococcal group in the ACWY-TT subjects (from 35.5% for 
MenC to 89.4% for MenY) and against MenC in the Meningitec subjects (27.3%) were higher compared 
to M0. GMCs dropped by 1.5 to 2-fold between M12 and M24.  
hSBA titres and GMTs - Age stratum 1-<2 years (ATP cohort for persistence Year 1) 
Group 
Timing 
N 
n 
% 
1:4 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
1:8 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
GMT 
value 
LL 
95% CI 
UL 
n 
% 
hSBA-MenA 
ACWY<2 
MenCCRM 
ACWY<2 
MenCCRM 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
209  3 
211  196 
201  47 
3 
66 
3 
63 
3 
63 
208  3 
215  213 
200  192 
65 
66 
64 
1 
48 
34 
ACWY<2 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
199  2 
173  141 
175  172 
Nimenrix 
0 
0.3 
4.1 
1.4 
92.9  88.5  96.0  191 
23.4  17.7  29.9  41 
12.7  3 
4.5 
13.3  2 
4.8 
13.3  2 
4.8 
hSBA-MenC 
0.9 
1.0 
1.0 
3 
0.3 
4.2 
1.4 
99.1  96.7  99.9  213 
96.0  92.3  98.3  192 
1.5 
1 
72.7  60.4  83.0  48 
53.1  40.2  65.7  34 
0.0 
8.3 
hSBA-MenW-135 
0.1 
1.0 
81.5  74.9  87.0  137 
98.3  95.1  99.6  172 
3.6 
2 
0.0 
1.7 
2.0 
0.0 
90.5  85.7  94.1  57.6 
20.4  15.1  26.6  3.6 
12.7  2.2 
4.5 
11.0  2.2 
3.2 
11.0  2.2 
3.2 
0.9 
0.4 
0.4 
2.1 
4.2 
0.3 
1.4 
99.1  96.7  99.9  187.0 
96.0  92.3  98.3  88.7 
1.5 
2.1 
72.7  60.4  83.0  22.0 
53.1  40.2  65.7  12.2 
0.0 
8.3 
3.6 
0.1 
1.0 
2.1 
79.2  72.4  85.0  38.5 
98.3  95.1  99.6  225.1 
2.0 
47.9 
3.1 
2.0 
1.9 
2.0 
2.0 
161.6 
73.8 
1.9 
14.3 
7.6 
2.0 
29.3 
184.5 
2.1 
69.3 
4.2 
2.4 
2.5 
2.4 
2.2 
216.5 
106.5 
2.3 
33.8 
19.5 
2.2 
50.5 
274.7 
Page 40/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group 
MenCCRM 
ACWY<2 
MenCCRM 
Timing 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
1:4 
1:8 
GMT 
N 
62 
56 
62 
n 
3 
1 
3 
% 
4.8 
1.8 
4.8 
LL 
1.0 
0.0 
1.0 
95% CI 
UL 
n 
13.5  2 
9.6 
1 
13.5  3 
hSBA-MenY 
% 
3.2 
1.8 
4.8 
value 
95% CI 
UL 
11.2  2.2 
9.6 
2.1 
13.5  2.4 
LL 
0.4 
0.0 
1.0 
182  7 
196  131 
214  200 
55 
57 
68 
2 
3 
8 
5 
7.8 
1.6 
3.8 
66.8  59.8  73.4  130 
93.5  89.3  96.4  200 
0.4 
3.6 
5.3 
1.1 
11.8  5.2 
12.5  0 
14.6  3 
21.9  8 
6.3 
0.9 
2.7 
2.2 
66.3  59.2  72.9  23.8 
93.5  89.3  96.4  105.1 
0.0 
0.0 
5.3 
1.1 
11.8  5.2 
2.1 
6.5 
14.6  2.5 
21.9  3.2 
95% CI 
UL 
2.4 
2.2 
3.0 
2.3 
31.4 
129.7 
2.2 
3.2 
4.4 
LL 
2.0 
2.0 
1.9 
2.0 
18.1 
85.2 
2.0 
1.9 
2.3 
Most subjects had anti-tetanus  0.1 IU/ml prior to vaccination (94.7% and 83.3%). All had 
 0.1 IU/ml at M1 but the percentage with  1.0 IU/ml and the adjusted GMC were statistically 
significantly higher in the ACWY-TT group. 
Children aged 2- < 11 years 
In the primary analysis the lower bound of the 95% CIs were all > 1.0 and therefore the pre-defined 
criterion for non-inferiority of ACWY-TT vs. unconjugated ACWY in this age group was met.  
 Difference between groups in percentage responders (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
ACWY-TT 
% 
n 
182  98.4
200  94.3
199 
100 
217  99.1
N 
185 
212 
199 
219 
MenPS 
n 
57 
56 
65 
58 
% 
91.9
81.2
95.6
82.9
N 
62 
69 
68 
70 
Difference in response rate 
(ACWY minus MenPS) 
95% CI 
% 
6.44 
13.18 
4.41 
16.23 
LL 
1.15 
4.79 
1.51 
8.99 
UL 
16.04 
24.32 
12.21 
26.78 
At D0 about 57-68% had rSBA antibody titres 1:8 for each of the four meningococcal groups. At M1 
the percentages with 1:128 ranged from 96.6 to 100% with no statistically significant differences but 
the GMTs for all four meningococcal groups were statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-TT 
group. All subjects who were seronegative had a response to the respective meningococcal group 
regardless of the vaccine received. In contrast, the response rates to each meningococcal group in 
those seropositive at baseline were higher for ACWY-TT recipients and for MenC, MenW and MenY the 
95% CI did not overlap. The data in these baseline seropositive subjects was responsible for the 
overall differences observed between vaccine groups.  
Up to M24 the percentages with rSBA titres 1:8 and 1:128 and the GMTs for each of the four 
meningococcal groups were statistically significantly higher for the ACWY-TT subjects. 
The hSBA data up to M12 for the age stratum 6-< 11 years showed that pre-vaccination seropositivity 
rates were low for MenA and MenW-135 but were 25-35% for MenC and MenY. At M12 > 95% of the 
ACWY-TT subjects had hSBA titres  1:8 for MenC, W-135 and Y compared to only 16.3% against 
MenA. However, in the Mencevax group the percentages with these titres were significantly lower for 
MenC, W and Y and numerically lower for MenA vs. the ACWY-TT group. At M12 the GMTs were 
significantly higher for the ACWY-TT group against MenC, W and Y and numerically higher for MenA. 
Nimenrix 
Page 41/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA titres and GMTs - Age stratum 6-<11 years (ATP cohort for persistence Year 1) 
Group 
Timing 
N 
n 
% 
1:4 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
1:8 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
GMT 
value 
LL 
95% CI 
UL 
n 
% 
hSBA-MenA 
ACWY6 
PS 6-<11 
ACWY6 
PS 6-<11 
ACWY6 
PS 6-<11 
ACWY6 
PS 6-<11 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PI(M12) 
105  2 
105  85 
104  19 
2 
36 
9 
35 
4 
35 
109  32 
101  90 
105  100 
35 
38 
31 
9 
15 
10 
10 
95 
103  98 
103  103 
30 
35 
31 
2 
12 
4 
22 
75 
89 
75 
106  105 
24 
32 
36 
8 
14 
12 
0.2 
0.7 
6.7 
1 
1.9 
81.0  72.1  88.0  84 
18.3  11.4  27.1  17 
5.6 
18.7  2 
25.7  12.5  43.3  9 
26.7  2 
11.4  3.2 
hSBA-MenC 
29.4  21.0  38.8  32 
89.1  81.3  94.4  90 
95.2  89.2  98.4  100 
25.7  12.5  43.3  9 
39.5  24.0  56.6  15 
32.3  16.7  51.4  10 
hSBA-MenW-135 
18.5  10 
10.5  5.2 
95.1  89.0  98.4  98 
96.5  100 
100 
103 
6.7 
22.1  2 
0.8 
34.3  19.1  52.2  12 
29.8  4 
12.9  3.6 
hSBA-MenY 
29.3  19.4  41.0  21 
84.3  75.0  91.1  74 
105 
99.1  94.9  100 
33.3  15.6  55.3  8 
43.8  26.4  62.3  14 
33.3  18.6  51.0  12 
5.2 
0.0 
2.1 
1.0 
80.0  71.1  87.2  53.4 
24.9  3.5 
16.3  9.8 
5.6 
18.7  2.2 
0.7 
25.7  12.5  43.3  4.1 
19.2  2.5 
5.7 
0.7 
29.4  21.0  38.8  4.7 
89.1  81.3  94.4  155.8 
95.2  89.2  98.4  129.5 
25.7  12.5  43.3  4.4 
39.5  24.0  56.6  13.1 
32.3  16.7  51.4  7.7 
18.5  3.0 
10.5  5.2 
95.1  89.0  98.4  133.5 
96.5  100  256.7 
100 
6.7 
22.1  2.6 
0.8 
34.3  19.1  52.2  5.8 
29.8  3.4 
12.9  3.6 
28.0  18.2  39.6  5.3 
83.1  73.7  90.2  95.1 
99.1  94.9  100  265.0 
33.3  15.6  55.3  6.1 
43.8  26.4  62.3  12.5 
33.3  18.6  51.0  9.3 
2.0 
37.3 
2.7 
1.9 
2.6 
1.9 
3.6 
99.3 
95.4 
2.7 
5.4 
3.5 
2.3 
99.9 
218.2 
1.8 
3.3 
2.0 
3.6 
62.4 
213.0 
3.0 
5.6 
4.3 
2.2 
76.2 
4.4 
2.5 
6.5 
3.3 
6.2 
244.3 
175.9 
7.2 
32.0 
17.3 
3.8 
178.4 
301.9 
3.7 
9.9 
5.8 
7.8 
145.1 
329.6 
12.6 
27.7 
19.9 
At M1 almost all subjects had anti-PS IgG  0.3 g/ml for each meningococcal group while at least 
73% had  2.0 g/ml. There were statistically significantly higher percentages in the ACWY-TT group 
with anti-MenA, C and W  2.0 g/ml at M1 but not at M12 when rates were lower in this vaccine group 
for MenA and C. The GMCs for antibody against MenA and W were statistically significantly higher in 
ACWY-TT recipients at M1 but not at M12. At M1 and M12 the anti-MenY GMC was statistically 
significantly lower for ACWY-TT recipients.  
At M24 percentages with 0.3g/mL ranged from 63.0% (MenC) to 96.6% (MenY) in the ACWY-TT 
group and from 89.7% (MenW-135) to 96.6% (MenC) in the control group. Comparisons showed that: 
 
Percentages  with  anti-PSC 0.3g/mL  and  concentrations 2.0g/mL  against  MenA,  C  and  Y  were 
statistically significantly lower for ACWY-TT subjects.  
 
The  anti-PSA,  anti-PSC  and  anti-PSY  GMCs  adjusted  for  pre-vaccination  concentrations  and  age 
strata were statistically significantly lower in the ACWY-TT group. 
Prior to vaccination all subjects had anti-tetanus antibodies  0.1 IU/ml and 53% to 75% had 
 1.0 IU/ml. At M1 after ACWY-TT all subjects had  1.0 IU/ml compared to 71.4% of controls.  
Nimenrix 
Page 42/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 038 
Children 2-10 years vs. ACWY 
There were 1062 subjects included in the ATP-I. The mean age was 5.6 years (3.4 and 7.8 years per 
stratum), 46% were female, 55% were of SE Asian heritage and most of the rest were of 
Central/South Asian or Arabic/N. African heritage. 
The applicant concluded that non-inferiority of the conjugate vs. Mencevax was demonstrated for each 
of the four meningococcal groups based on 95% CI around differences in response rates that were all 
> 2%. Actual vaccine response rates to each meningococcal group were 99-100% for the ACWY-TT 
subjects and 94-97% for the control subjects who were seronegative at baseline. Rates were lower in 
both vaccine groups and against each meningococcal antigen among those already seropositive at 
baseline, ranging from 88.6-97.4% for ACWY-TT and from 59.8-78.6% in controls. In each age 
stratum the pattern and actual rates in ACWY-TT recipients was as for the overall ATP-I cohort. There 
was a particular benefit for the conjugate vaccine in those who were seropositive at baseline and a 
larger difference between vaccines in the younger age stratum.  
At M1 rSBA titres  1:128 were observed in 99.2%-100.0% in the ACWY-TT group and 94.7%-99.6% 
in the Mencevax group with increases in GMTs from 14.6 to 313.8 to reach values in the range 1386.8 
to 11569.8. Percentages with titres  1:128 for groups C, W and Y were significantly higher in ACWY-
TT recipients while GMTs for all meningococcal groups were significantly higher after ACWY-TT. The 
results for each age stratum showed the same patterns. There seemed to be a particularly large 
benefit for the conjugate vaccine in subjects aged 2-5 years. For example, the GMTs are shown below.  
2-5 years 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
6-10 years 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
ACWY<6 
PS<6 
N 
303 
367 
370 
383 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
6150.9 
3395.9 
11189.7 
10160.8 
N 
95 
123 
125 
125 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
1954.9 
796.5 
1738.9 
2095.5 
ACWY6 
PS6 
N 
335 
365 
368 
388 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
6394.1 
6901.4 
12041.5 
11510.5 
N 
111 
128 
127 
133 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
2916.3 
2337.0 
2753.1 
3549.7 
Adjusted GMT ratio  
95% CI 
Value 
LL 
UL 
3.15 
4.26 
6.43 
4.85 
2.63 
3.23 
5.31 
4.08 
3.77 
5.62 
7.79 
5.76 
Adjusted GMT ratio 
95% CI 
Value 
LL 
UL 
2.19 
2.95 
4.37 
3.24 
1.82 
2.15 
3.60 
2.74 
2.64 
4.06 
5.32 
3.84 
At M1 the IgG seropositivity rates were all in the range 98.5%-100.0% while concentrations  2.0 
g/mL were reached in 91.5%-99.5% of subjects with corresponding increases in all GMCs. 
Exploratory evaluation of the between-group differences indicated a statistically significantly higher 
percentage with anti-MenA  2.0 g/mL and anti-MenA GMC in the ACWY-TT group. The anti-PS 
concentration data by age stratum and by country gave results aligned with the overall analysis with 
the exception of:  
 
In  the  age  stratum  2-5  years  the  percentages  with  anti-MenW  and  anti-MenY    2.0  g/mL  were 
statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-TT group. 
 
In  the  age  stratum  6-10  years  there  was  no  statistical  difference  between  vaccines  for  the 
percentage with anti-MenA concentrations  0.2 g/mL.  
Nimenrix 
Page 43/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At baseline 86% of subjects had  0.1 IU/mL anti-TT. At M1 the percentages with  0.1 IU/mL were 
98.9% in the ACWY-TT group with no change in the control group. In addition,   1.0 IU/mL anti-TT 
was observed in 97.1% and the GMC had increased by 34.0-fold in the ACWY-TT group.  
Study 081 
Children 2-10 years vs. Menjugate 
The mean age was 5.6 years (3.5 and 7.8 years in the two age strata) with a balanced gender 
distribution. Almost all subjects were of European Caucasian descent. The applicant concluded that 
non-inferiority of ACWY-TT vs. Menjugate was demonstrated for responses to MenC based on a lower 
bound of the 95% CI that was -5.25%, with virtually no difference in response rates between vaccines 
for each subset according to baseline MenC serostatus.   
Response rates to ACWY-TT for each meningococcal group were higher in the subsets seronegative at 
baseline (99-100%) compared to those seropositive at baseline (89-98%). In the Menjugate group 
some subjects fulfilled the criteria for a vaccine response to MenA, W or Y. This was especially 
noticeable for rSBA against MenW and MenY among those seronegative to these meningococcal groups 
at baseline. The data by age strata showed that in each case the responses to the MenC conjugates 
were comparable. Responses to MenA, W and Y were all much higher in the ACWY-TT group regardless 
of baseline serostatus. 
Difference in rSBA response rates (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Pre-vaccination 
status 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
ACWY-TT 
n 
N 
% 
MenCCRM 
n 
N 
121 
105 
226 
138 
130 
268 
56 
226 
282 
39 
246 
285 
120 
94 
214 
138 
116 
254 
56 
222 
278 
39 
236 
275 
99.2 
89.5 
94.7*
100 
89.2 
94.8 
100 
98.2 
98.6*
100 
95.9 
96.5*
41 
26 
67 
48 
44 
92 
20 
70 
90 
16 
72 
88 
4 
4 
8 
48 
40 
88 
8 
3 
11 
6 
1 
7 
Difference  
95% CI 
% 
% 
LL 
UL 
9.8 
15.4 
11.9 
100 
90.9 
95.7 
40.0 
4.3 
12.2 
37.5 
1.4 
8.0 
89.42 
74.14 
82.75 
0.00 
-1.68 
-0.88 
60.00 
93.94 
86.36 
62.50 
94.55 
88.54 
- 
- 
72.43 
- 
- 
-5.25 
- 
- 
77.88 
- 
- 
80.69 
- 
- 
89.23 
- 
- 
5.75 
- 
- 
91.80 
- 
- 
93.12 
The percentages with rSBA titres  1:128 increased to at least 99.3% after administration of ACWY-TT 
and all the Menjugate subjects had a MenC titre  1:128. The rSBA GMTs increased by 54-fold to 198-
fold in the ACWY-TT group and the MenC GMT increased 273-fold in the Menjugate group vs. 123-fold 
in the ACWY-TT group. The rSBA-MenC GMT adjusted for pre-vaccination measurements and age 
strata was statistically significantly lower in the ACWY-TT group. The post-vaccination percentages with 
rSBA titres  1:8 and  1:128 were comparable for the two age strata whereas the GMTs tended to be 
lower in the younger subjects compared to the older subjects. In each age stratum of subjects who 
received the ACWY-TT vaccine the rSBA GMT for MenC was lower than for the other three 
meningococcal groups. 
Nimenrix 
Page 44/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects 2-5 years of age 
Differences in rSBA GMT (ATP-I) 
ACWY<6 
MenC<6 
Anti body 
N 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
122 
141 
153 
150 
subjects 6-10 years of age 
Adjusted 
GMT 
4879.4 
1952.0 
7981.4 
6619.3 
Anti body 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
ACWY 6 
N 
104 
127 
129 
135 
Adjusted 
GMT 
7308.1 
3646.9 
8815.9 
10446.5 
N 
35 
50 
46 
45 
N 
32 
42 
44 
43 
Adjusted 
GMT 
13.4 
4514.2 
84.6 
84.1 
MenC 6 
Adjusted GMT ratio 
95% CI 
Value 
LL 
UL 
364.35 
0.43 
94.32 
78.72 
232.28 
0.29 
67.43 
54.55 
Adjusted GMT ratio 
95% CI 
571.51 
0.65 
131.94 
113.58 
Adjusted 
GMT 
47.1 
6453.2 
115.1 
285.8 
Value 
LL 
UL 
155.06 
0.57 
76.61 
36.55 
81.18 
0.34 
46.76 
24.55 
296.19 
0.93 
125.54 
54.41 
At M1 the percentages with anti-PS  2 g/ml were at least 86.8% in the ACWY-TT group and all 
subjects in the Menjugate group had  2 g/ml against MenC. GMCs increased from 41-fold to 162-fold 
after ACWY-TT and by 90-fold to MenC in Menjugate recipients compared to 83-fold in ACWY-TT 
recipients. No statistically significant difference was observed for MenC GMCs adjusted for pre-
vaccination measurements and age strata between the ACWY-TT group and the Menjugate group. 
Study 093  
Adults vs. Mencevax 
The study enrolled young adults (18-25 years) at single sites in each of The Philippines, Thailand and 
Panama. The study compared ACWY-TT to Mencevax and also included a comparison of clinical versus 
commercial lots of ACWY-TT (randomisation was 1:1:1 to either lot or to Mencevax).  
Pre-vaccination rSBA titres least 1:8 ranged between 60.1% (MenC) and 95.7% (MenA) in the three 
study groups. One month post-vaccination the percentages with titres at least 1:8 for the four 
meningococcal groups increased to 100% for all three treatments groups.  
rSBA titres and GMTs, GSK rSBA assay (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
Group 
ACWY-A 
ACWY-B 
MenPS 
rSBA-MenC 
ACWY-A 
ACWY-B 
MenPS 
rSBA-MenW-135 
ACWY-A 
ACWY-B 
MenPS 
Timing 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
Nimenrix 
≥ 1:8 
≥ 1:128 
n  % 
n  % 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
N 
320  296  92.5  89.0  95.1  272  85.0  80.6  88.7 
359  359  100  99.0  100  359  100  99.0  100 
328  314  95.7  92.9  97.6  292  89.0  85.1  92.2 
343  343  100  98.9  100  343  100  98.9  100 
310  295  95.2  92.1  97.3  275  88.7  84.6  92.0 
356  356  100  99.0  100  356  100  99.0  100 
351  211  60.1  54.8  65.3  133  37.9  32.8  43.2 
374  374  100  99.0  100  374  100  99.0  100 
350  213  60.9  55.5  66.0  150  42.9  37.6  48.2 
370  370  100  99.0  100  370  100  99.0  100 
361  224  62.0  56.8  67.1  159  44.0  38.9  49.3 
372  372  100  99.0  100  370  99.5  98.1  99.9 
343  296  86.3  82.2  89.8  244  71.1  66.0  75.9 
375  375  100  99.0  100  375  100  99.0  100 
333  286  85.9  81.7  89.4  240  72.1  66.9  76.8 
370  370  100  99.0  100  370  100  99.0  100 
345  298  86.4  82.3  89.8  244  70.7  65.6  75.5 
372  372  100  99.0  100  371  99.7  98.5  100 
value 
348.4 
4846.0 
401.4 
5064.6 
424.4 
3421.0 
36.3 
6025.4 
44.7 
7070.7 
46.9 
5953.1 
185.9 
9836.7 
191.2 
8855.5 
205.5 
4675.1 
GMT 
95% CI 
LL 
293.0 
4459.8 
347.2 
4657.5 
362.9 
3134.7 
29.3 
5269.0 
35.6 
6225.3 
37.2 
5188.2 
153.1 
8939.2 
155.9 
8021.8 
167.6 
4145.9 
UL 
414.2 
5265.7 
464.1 
5507.2 
496.5 
3733.4 
45.0 
6890.2 
56.2 
8030.9 
59.0 
6830.7 
225.6 
10824.3 
234.4 
9775.9 
252.0 
5272.0 
Page 45/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenY 
Group 
ACWY-A 
ACWY-B 
MenPS 
Timing 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
≥ 1:8 
≥ 1:128 
n  % 
n  % 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
95% CI 
value 
LL  UL 
N 
363  335  92.3  89.0  94.8  307  84.6  80.4  88.1 
387.5 
375  375  100  99.0  100  375  100  99.0  100  11632.5 
359  338  94.2  91.2  96.3  308  85.8  81.7  89.2 
426.8 
371  371  100  99.0  100  371  100  99.0  100  10386.7 
412.6 
364  336  92.3  89.1  94.8  313  86.0  82.0  89.4 
6315.9 
373  373  100  99.0  100  373  100  99.0  100 
GMT 
95% CI 
LL 
324.9 
10675.1 
362.2 
9557.5 
346.8 
5787.9 
UL 
462.2 
12675.8 
502.8 
11287.9 
490.8 
6892.1 
The comparison Lot A vs. Lot B based on GSK’s rSBA GMTs gave an upper limit of the 95% CIs around 
the GMT ratios within 2.0. The GMT for MenY was statistically significantly higher for Lot A vs. B. 
GMT ratios between lots ACWY-B and ACWY-A GSK rSBA assay (ATP cohort for 
immunogenicity) 
ACWY-B 
ACWY-A 
Adjusted GMT ratio  
(ACWY-B/ACWY-A) 
95% CI 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
N 
298 
342 
327 
353 
Adjusted GMT 
5195.3 
6874.5 
9202.5 
10339.0 
N 
302 
346 
338 
358 
Adjusted GMT 
4997.0 
5988.0 
10115.0 
11757.9 
Value 
1.04 
1.15 
0.91 
0.88 
LL 
0.92 
0.96 
0.80 
0.78 
UL 
1.17 
1.37 
1.04 
0.99 
Using the HPA rSBA assay pre-vaccination rates for titres above 1:8 were much lower - from 12.0% 
(MenC) to 38.5% (MenY) in both study groups. Non-inferiority of ACWY-TT Lot A vs. Mencevax was 
demonstrated (95% CI around the GMT ratios within 2.0). GMTs for MenA, MenW-135 and MenY were 
statistically significantly higher in the ACWY-A group compared to Menvevax. 
GMT ratios between MenPS and ACWY-A HPA rSBA assay (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
MenPS 
Adjusted GMT 
2208.7 
3531.6 
4263.5 
2567.6 
ACWY-A 
Adjusted GMT 
3513.4 
3996.1 
12674.2 
5903.3 
N 
362 
362 
360 
360 
N 
360 
360 
358 
360 
Adjusted GMT ratio (MenPS/ACWY-
A) 
95% CI 
Value 
0.63 
0.88 
0.34 
0.43 
LL 
0.54 
0.70 
0.27 
0.36 
UL 
0.73 
1.12 
0.42 
0.52 
It appeared that there was no appreciable effect of the degree of MenA O-acetylation on immune 
responses. 
ACWY-TT vs. MenACWY-DT (Menactra) 
Study (country) 
MenACWY-TT-052 
US 
Population (age) 
Children  
Adults 
10-25 years 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT in 11-25 years old  
MenACWY-TT in 10-<11 years old   
Menactra (11-25 years old) 
Subjects aged 11-25 years were to be randomised to ACWY-TT (588) or Menactra (196) in a 3:1 ratio. 
An additional non-randomised group of up to 150 subjects aged 10 years (i.e. aged < 11 years) was to 
be enrolled to receive ACWY-TT (Menactra was approved in the US from 11 years at study initiation).  
The D0 and M1 rates for hSBA titres ≥ 1:8 are shown in the figure below. Rates were lower (as were 
the GMTs) for those seronegative vs. those seropositive before vaccination. Overall, the hSBA assay 
provided good discrimination between vaccines and showed that percentages with titres  8 were 
Nimenrix 
Page 46/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher for A, W-135 and Y for ACWY-TT compared to Menactra with no appreciable difference for 
MenC. For subjects aged 16-25 years there were statistically significantly higher percentages reaching 
these cut-offs in the ACWY-TT group for MenW-135 and Y with no difference for MenA and C. 
Percentages with titres ≥1:4 and 1:8 were numerically but not significantly higher for each 
meningococcal group among subjects aged 10 years vs. older subjects who received ACWY-TT.  
Study MenACWY-TT-052: GMT ratio between ACWY-TT and 
Menactra groups for rSBA titres one month after the vaccination (ATP cohort for 
immunogenicity) 
ACWY-TT = MenACWY-TT 
Adjusted GMT = geometric mean antibody titre adjusted for Age strata ,baseline titre 
N = Number of subjects with both pre- and post-vaccination results available 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval for the adjusted GMT ratio (Ancova model: adjustment for Age strata ,baseline 
titre – pooled variance); LL = lower limit, UL = upper limit 
In general, the hSBA titres elicited by ACWY-TT decreased with increasing pre-vaccination anti-TT 
antibody concentrations for each meningococcal group but there was no consistent trend observed in 
the Menactra group. To investigate the impact of pre-vaccination anti-TT antibody the Company 
tabulated the hSBA according to anti-TT concentrations at pre-vaccination < 1.0 IU/mL, 1.0 IU/mL to 
< 3.0 IU/mL or ≥ 3.0 IU/mL). There was a decrease in hSBA titres with increasing pre-vaccination 
anti-TT concentrations in the ACWY-TT group aged 11 to <25 years.  
Nimenrix 
Page 47/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA titres and GMTs by anti-TT concentrations at pre-vaccination –study 052 (ATP-I) 
Antibody  Group 
hSBA- 
MenA 
ACWY-TT  <1.0 
ACWY-DT  <1.0 
ACWY<11  <1.0 
hSBA- 
MenC 
ACWY-TT  <1.0 
ACWY-DT  <1.0 
ACWY<11  <1.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
Sub-group  Timing  N 
130 
127 
106 
109 
186 
188 
48 
47 
34 
32 
68 
66 
50 
49 
16 
16 
4 
4 
128 
127 
108 
110 
188 
186 
49 
46 
34 
34 
71 
71 
47 
50 
16 
15 
4 
4 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
 4 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
% 
13.1
7.8  20.1
92.1 86.0 96.2
17.9 11.2 26.6
79.8 71.1 86.9
11.3
7.1  16.7
80.9 74.5 86.2
3.5  22.7
10.4
74.5 59.7 86.1
5.9 
0.7  19.7
87.5 71.0 96.5
14.7
7.3  25.4
63.6 50.9 75.1
12.0
4.5  24.3
91.8 80.4 97.7
0.0 
0.0  20.6
81.3 54.4 96.0
0.0  60.2
0.0 
100
100
39.8
53.1 44.1 62.0
100
100
97.1
55.6 45.7 65.1
98.2 93.6 99.8
55.9 48.4 63.1
91.9 87.0 95.4
61.2 46.2 74.8
97.8 88.5 99.9
64.7 46.5 80.3
97.1 84.7 99.9
69.0 56.9 79.5
100
100
94.9
40.4 26.4 55.7
98.0 89.4 99.9
68.8 41.3 89.0
100
100
78.2
75.0 19.4 99.4
100
39.8
100
n 
17 
117 
19 
87 
21 
152 
5 
35 
2 
28 
10 
42 
6 
45 
0 
13 
0 
4 
68 
127 
60 
108 
105 
171 
30 
45 
22 
33 
49 
71 
19 
49 
11 
15 
3 
4 
 8 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
% 
10.8
6.0  17.4
89.8 83.1 94.4
10.4
5.3  17.8
79.8 71.1 86.9
8.6 
5.0  13.6
79.3 72.8 84.8
3.5  22.7
10.4
74.5 59.7 86.1
5.9 
0.7  19.7
87.5 71.0 96.5
7.4 
2.4  16.3
63.6 50.9 75.1
8.0 
2.2  19.2
89.8 77.8 96.6
0.0 
0.0  20.6
81.3 54.4 96.0
0.0  60.2
0.0 
100
100
39.8
53.1 44.1 62.0
100
100
97.1
55.6 45.7 65.1
98.2 93.6 99.8
55.3 47.9 62.6
91.9 87.0 95.4
59.2 44.2 73.0
97.8 88.5 99.9
64.7 46.5 80.3
97.1 84.7 99.9
69.0 56.9 79.5
100
100
94.9
40.4 26.4 55.7
98.0 89.4 99.9
68.8 41.3 89.0
100
100
78.2
75.0 19.4 99.4
100
39.8
100
n 
14 
114 
11 
87 
16 
149 
5 
35 
2 
28 
5 
42 
4 
44 
0 
13 
0 
4 
68 
127 
60 
108 
104 
171 
29 
45 
22 
33 
49 
71 
19 
49 
11 
15 
3 
4 
value 
2.6 
97.0 
2.8 
53.6 
2.6 
46.4 
2.6 
36.4 
2.2 
73.8 
2.5 
31.5 
2.6 
91.1 
2.0 
94.9 
2.0 
99.3 
11.5 
1080.1 
14.8 
655.0 
12.9 
304.0 
13.2 
373.5 
18.0 
204.8 
21.8 
257.4 
6.5 
781.2 
18.2 
1387.7 
25.8 
1509.8 
GMT 
95% CI 
LL 
2.3 
72.9 
2.4 
37.5 
2.3 
35.9 
2.0 
20.2 
1.9 
38.1 
2.2 
18.2 
2.1 
60.1 
2.0 
31.2 
2.0 
19.9 
8.4 
772.3 
10.2 
442.6 
9.9 
216.8 
8.0 
209.7 
9.2 
106.0 
14.0 
166.7 
4.1 
471.4 
7.0 
535.4 
1.6 
12.0 
UL 
3.0 
129.2 
3.2 
76.6 
2.8 
60.0 
3.2 
65.6 
2.6 
142.8 
2.9 
54.6 
3.4 
138.2 
2.0 
288.7 
2.0 
496.4 
15.8 
1510.4 
21.4 
969.3 
16.8 
426.3 
21.8 
665.0 
34.9 
395.6 
34.0 
397.4 
10.3 
1294.4 
47.6 
3596.9 
425.3 
189713.3
Nimenrix 
Page 48/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibody  Group 
hSBA- 
MenW- 
135 
ACWY-TT  <1.0 
ACWY-DT  <1.0 
ACWY<11  <1.0 
hSBA- 
MenY 
ACWY-TT  <1.0 
ACWY-DT  <1.0 
ACWY<11  <1.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
Sub-group  Timing  N 
118 
122 
93 
103 
175 
174 
46 
40 
30 
29 
60 
62 
47 
48 
15 
15 
3 
4 
117 
130 
110 
112 
184 
188 
45 
48 
29 
31 
67 
68 
46 
49 
15 
16 
4 
4 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
PRE 
PI(M1) 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
1.0-<3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
3.0 
 4 
95% CI 
% 
LL  UL 
23.7 16.4 32.4
92.6 86.5 96.6
29.0 20.1 39.4
93.2 86.5 97.2
26.3 19.9 33.5
89.7 84.1 93.8
30.4 17.7 45.8
75.0 58.8 87.3
33.3 17.3 52.8
75.9 56.5 89.7
36.7 24.6 50.1
82.3 70.5 90.8
14.9
6.2  28.3
93.8 82.8 98.7
4.3  48.1
20.0
100
100  78.2
0.0  70.8
0.0 
75.0 19.4 99.4
44.4 35.3 53.9
96.9 92.3 99.2
58.2 48.4 67.5
94.6 88.7 98.0
59.8 52.3 66.9
94.1 89.8 97.0
44.4 29.6 60.0
81.3 67.4 91.1
58.6 38.9 76.5
87.1 70.2 96.4
68.7 56.2 79.4
80.9 69.5 89.4
45.7 30.9 61.0
95.9 86.0 99.5
7.8  55.1
26.7
100
100  79.4
6.8  93.2
50.0
100
100  39.8
n 
28 
113 
27 
96 
46 
156 
14 
30 
10 
22 
22 
51 
7 
45 
3 
15 
0 
3 
52 
126 
64 
106 
110 
177 
20 
39 
17 
27 
46 
55 
21 
47 
4 
16 
2 
4 
 8 
95% CI 
% 
LL  UL 
22.9 15.7 31.5
92.6 86.5 96.6
28.0 19.1 38.2
91.3 84.1 95.9
25.1 18.9 32.2
89.1 83.5 93.3
30.4 17.7 45.8
75.0 58.8 87.3
33.3 17.3 52.8
72.4 52.8 87.3
36.7 24.6 50.1
79.0 66.8 88.3
14.9
6.2  28.3
93.8 82.8 98.7
4.3  48.1
20.0
78.2
100
100
0.0  70.8
0.0 
75.0 19.4 99.4
43.6 34.4 53.1
96.9 92.3 99.2
57.3 47.5 66.7
94.6 88.7 98.0
59.2 51.8 66.4
94.1 89.8 97.0
44.4 29.6 60.0
81.3 67.4 91.1
58.6 38.9 76.5
87.1 70.2 96.4
68.7 56.2 79.4
80.9 69.5 89.4
43.5 28.9 58.9
95.9 86.0 99.5
7.8  55.1
26.7
79.4
100
100
6.8  93.2
50.0
100
39.8
100
n 
27 
113 
26 
94 
44 
155 
14 
30 
10 
21 
22 
49 
7 
45 
3 
15 
0 
3 
51 
126 
63 
106 
109 
177 
20 
39 
17 
27 
46 
55 
20 
47 
4 
16 
2 
4 
value 
5.4 
142.6 
6.7 
128.2 
5.6 
104.4 
7.4 
97.6 
6.9 
45.5 
10.3 
78.8 
4.2 
131.4 
5.1 
258.6 
2.0 
35.8 
13.4 
288.1 
25.4 
282.3 
27.9 
221.0 
17.0 
96.3 
22.3 
110.0 
46.6 
127.4 
15.5 
327.2 
6.6 
313.7 
15.6 
215.6 
GMT 
95% CI 
LL 
3.8 
104.2 
4.4 
91.0 
4.3 
80.0 
4.0 
41.9 
3.4 
21.1 
5.8 
45.0 
2.5 
84.2 
1.7 
146.0 
2.0 
0.8 
8.9 
223.4 
16.3 
200.9 
19.9 
172.5 
8.1 
47.7 
9.4 
52.1 
26.0 
71.0 
7.6 
204.8 
2.1 
194.1 
0.3 
38.1 
UL 
7.5 
195.1 
10.0 
180.7 
7.4 
136.2 
13.8 
227.2 
14.2 
98.1 
18.4 
137.8 
7.1 
204.9 
14.9 
458.2 
2.0 
1655.8
20.4 
371.6 
39.6 
396.8 
39.2 
283.2 
35.7 
194.5 
52.7 
232.2 
83.5 
228.6 
31.7 
522.8 
20.9 
507.0 
762.0 
1222.1 
The same trend in GMTs applied to all four meningococcal groups but was of lesser magnitude for 
MenW135 and MenY. For MenA and C the 95% CI around the GMTs did not overlap for some 
comparisons. These differences in GMTs impacted on percentages reaching titres at least 1:4 or 1:8 
but again the difference was really only notable for MenA and MenC. These effects were not observed 
in the 10 to < 11 years age group that also received ACWY-TT, although this may be due to the very 
limited numbers with pre-vaccination anti-TT ≥ 3.0 IU/mL. As might be expected, pre-vaccination anti-
TT concentrations did not appear to have an impact on hSBA titres achieved in the Menactra group. 
The rSBA data showed that at M1 all subjects had titers 1:128 except for MenW-135 in the Menactra 
group (98.8%) and against MenC in the 11-25 year-olds (99.4% and 97.7%). The GMTs for all four 
meningococcal groups were statistically significantly higher for ACWY-TT vs. Menactra.  
Statistically significantly higher percentages of ACWY-TT subjects had ≥ 0.3 μg/mL against MenC and 
had ≥ 2.0 µg/mL for C, W-135 and Y after vaccination. The GMCs against MenC, W-135 and Y were 
also significantly higher vs. the Menactra group.   
Nimenrix 
Page 49/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACWY-TT administered after unconjugated MenACWY  
Study 
MenACWY-TT-021 
(Lebanon) 
Population 
Children 
Adolescents 
Adults 
4.5 to 34 years 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT administered to: 
MPS group: Vaccinated with Mencevax ACWY in 
study ACWY-004  
noMPS group: No previous ACWY vaccine 
The D0 seropositivity rates varied from 47.1% in the noMPS group against MenC to 100% in the MPS 
group against MenA and all GMTs were higher in the MPS group. At D30 at least 97% had rSBA titres 
 1:128. GMTs increased by 3.9- to 30.1-fold for MPS recipients and by 11.8- to 246-fold for controls 
and GMTs adjusted for age strata were significantly lower in the MPS recipients. GMTs for MenA 
showed a trend downwards as age increased in both vaccine groups but there was no other consistent 
trend identified. 
rSBA titres (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
 1:8 
 1:128 
GMT 
95% CI 
Antibody  Group 
Timing 
rSBA-
MenA 
rSBA-
MenC 
MPS 
noMPS 
MPS 
noMPS 
rSBA-
MenW-135 
MPS 
rSBA-
MenY 
noMPS 
MPS 
noMPS 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
Pre-ACWY-TT 
Post-ACWY-TT 
N 
160 
146 
71 
69 
165 
169 
70 
75 
165 
169 
74 
75 
167 
169 
74 
75 
LL 
863.2 
116.6 
Value 
n  % 
n  % 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
160 100 97.7 100
146 100 97.5 100
70  98.6 92.4 100
69  100 94.8 100
124 75.2 67.8 81.5
169 100 97.8 100
33  47.1 35.1 59.4
75  100 95.2 100
135 81.8 75.1 87.4 116 70.3 62.7 77.2
169 100 97.8 100
42  56.8 44.7 68.2
75  100 95.2 100
158 94.6 90.0 97.5 150 89.8 84.2 94.0
169 100 97.8 100
60  81.1 70.3 89.3
75  100 95.2 100
UL 
160 100 97.7 100 1770.1  1569.0  1996.9
146 100 97.5 100 6868.8  6044.9  7805.0
1411.5
70  98.6 92.4 100 1103.8 
69  100 94.8 100 13014.9  10722.2 15798.0
98  59.4 51.5 67.0
169.4 
164 97.0 93.2 99.0 1945.8  1583.3  2391.1
26  37.1 25.9 49.5
52.0 
75  100 95.2 100 5494.6  4266.3  7076.5
208.1 
169 100 97.8 100 4635.7  3942.5  5450.7
24  32.4 22.0 44.3
59.9 
75  100 95.2 100 9078.0  7087.7  11627.1
708.9 
169 100 97.8 100 7799.9  6682.8  9103.6
55  74.3 62.8 83.8
272.9 
75  100 95.2 100 13895.5  11186.2 17260.9
434.8 
114.0 
154.0 
555.2 
106.1 
170.1 
22.7 
36.9 
80.2 
30.1 
17.4 
All initially seronegative subjects responded to ACWY-TT except one for one subject in the MPS group 
against MenC. Response rates among those already seropositive at D0 were from 41% to 79% in the 
MPS group and from 76% to 95% in the noMPS group.  
Overall rates per age stratum were driven by the effect of the subsets seropositive at baseline and the 
higher rates in the noMPS group. For each meningococcal group the response rates in the MPS 
recipients showed a clear trend to decrease with increasing age. Among noMPS subjects the response 
rates were highest in the stratum 4.5 to 10 years (all > 92%) with no notable difference between the 
two older strata.  
D0 anti-PS  0.3 g/mL rates were 88.2% to 97.6% in the MPS group and 11.4% to 36.8% in the 
noMPS group. At D30 all but one subject had  0.3 g/mL and most had ≥2 µg/ml. In contrast to the 
rSBA data the anti-PS GMCs adjusted for age strata were significantly higher in the MPS group 
compared to those in the noMPS group for MenC, W and Y with a large numerical difference observed 
for MenA. 
The time interval (in weeks) between primary vaccination with Mencevax and subsequent vaccination 
with ACWY-TT was calculated for 192 subjects with sufficient data and gave a range from 140 weeks 
Nimenrix 
Page 50/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2 years and 8 months) to 172 weeks (3 years and 4 months) with a mean of 156 weeks (3 years). 
The impact of the time interval between vaccines on immune responses to the conjugate (rSBA and 
ELISA) was assessed using a generalised linear model. There was no statistically significant effect of 
the time interval between Mencevax and ACWY-TT doses on the post-ACWY-TT vaccine response to 
any of the four meningococcal groups. The P-values of the parameter DIFF (i.e. time interval) were ≥ 
0.3477 for all rSBA titres and ELISA concentrations. 
The Company was requested to discuss the observations. It was considered that the literature findings 
supported a conclusion that the differences between ELISA and rSBA suggest that the antibodies 
elicited in naïve subjects are of higher quality than the antibodies elicited in the subjects previously 
vaccinated with a meningococcal polysaccharide vaccine.  
The actual mechanism underlying the observed effects of prior vaccination with plain polysaccharides 
on the immune responses to subsequent doses of plain or conjugated polysaccharides are as yet not 
established. 
Lot consistency and co-administration with Fluarix 
Study 
MenACWY-TT-035 
Philippines, Lebanon 
Population 
Adults  
18-55 years 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT (Lot A, B or C) 
MenACWY-TT (Lot A) + Fluarix 
Mencevax ± Fluarix 
Lot to lot consistency was demonstrated based on 95% CI around the GMT ratios within 0.5, 2.0. In 
fact, all the 95% CI fell within the range 0.71, 1.50. Non-inferiority of ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax was 
demonstrated for each of the four meningococcal groups since all 95% CI around the differences in 
response rates were > - 4%. For each vaccine the response rates were higher in the subsets that were 
seronegative at baseline. 
 Difference between vaccine response rates  
(ATP cohort for immunogenicity, pooled lots analysis) 
Difference in vaccine 
response rate 
(ACWY-TT minus MenPS) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MENA 
rSBA-MENC 
rSBA-MENW-135 
rSBA-MENY  
Pre-vaccination 
status 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
S- 
S+ 
Total 
ACWY-TT 
% 
n 
N 
109  107  98.2 
634  488  77.0 
743  595  80.1 
200  198  99.0 
649  579  89.2 
849  777  91.5 
153  151  98.7 
707  625  88.4 
860  776  90.2 
70 
97.1 
68 
792  682  86.1 
862  750  87.0 
MenPS 
n 
% 
25 
100 
151  66.5 
176  69.8 
64 
97.0 
201  90.5 
265  92.0 
94.6 
53 
189  83.3 
242  85.5 
32 
100 
195  76.2 
227  78.8 
N 
25 
227 
252 
66 
222 
288 
56 
227 
283 
32 
256 
288 
% 
-1.83 
10.45 
10.24 
2.03 
-1.33 
-0.49 
4.05 
5.14 
4.72 
-2.86 
9.94 
8.19 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
- 
- 
4.11 
- 
- 
-3.85 
- 
- 
0.49 
- 
- 
3.24 
- 
- 
16.78 
- 
- 
3.57 
- 
- 
9.65 
- 
- 
13.69 
In  the  analysis  of  effects of  concomitant Fluarix  the  rSBA  GMTs  were  all  lower  on  co-administration. 
The upper limits of the two-sided 95% CIs for the adjusted GMT ratios were < 2.0 except for MenC.  
Nimenrix 
Page 51/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMT ratios between ACWY_F and ACWY+F groups (ATP) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MENA 
rSBA-MENC 
rSBA-MENW-135 
rSBA-MENY 
ACWY_F 
ACWY+F 
N 
263 
293 
299 
300 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
3895.9 
10299.7 
5848.2 
7331.2 
N 
85 
97 
101 
102 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
2860.8 
6908.0 
4770.5 
5617.2 
Adjusted GMT ratio  
 (ACWY_F / ACWY+F ) 
Value  LL 
95% CI 
UL 
1.36 
1.49 
1.23 
1.31 
1.04 
1.10 
0.91 
1.00 
1.78 
2.03 
1.65 
1.70 
The HI seroconversion rates and seroprotection rates at D30 in the ACWY+F group showed lower limits 
of the two-sided exact 95% CI >40% and >70%, respectively, for all three strains. The lower limits of 
the two-sided standardized asymptotic 95% CI in the fold increase in GMTs were all >2.5. The 
seropositivity and seroconversion rates in the co-administration group demonstrated robust HI 
responses to Fluarix. 
HI titres 
1:10 
1:40 
GMT 
ACWY+F  PRE 
Antibody  Group 
ANTI-A 
/H1N1 
ANTI-A 
/H3N2 
ANTI-B 
ACWY+F  PRE 
ACWY+F  PRE 
n 
% 
Timing  N 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
n 
105  101  96.2  90.5  99.0  68 
95% CI 
UL 
68.1 
P1(M1)  105  105  100  96.5  100  104  99.0  94.8  100  537.2  446.9  645.8 
39.6 
P1(M1)  105  105  100  96.5  100  102  97.1  91.9  99.4  177.8  150.0  210.7 
25.7 
P1(M1)  104  104  100  96.5  100  100  96.2  90.4  98.9  192.7  156.4  237.6 
95% CI 
% 
LL  UL 
64.8  54.8  73.8  54.1 
54.3  44.3  64.0  31.5 
42.7  33.0  52.8  20.9 
73.8  64.2  82.0  44 
86.7  78.6  92.5  57 
value  LL 
103  76 
105  91 
25.1 
17.0 
43.0 
Other co-administration studies 
Study 
MenACWY-TT-037 
SE, DK 
± Twinrix Adult (16-17 
years) or  
Junior (11-15 years) 
MenACWY-TT-039 
FI 
± Priorix Tetra 
048 persistence Y2 
Population 
Adolescents 
11-17 years  
Toddlers 
12-23 months 
MenACWY-TT-040 
(AU, DE, HE) 
± Infanrix hexa 
Toddlers 
12-23 months  
10PN-PD-DIT-014 
CZ 
± Infanrix hexa 
MenACWY-TT -080 
Mexico, Taiwan 
± Synflorix 
Toddlers 
12-15 months 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT at Month 0  
and Twinrix  at Month 0, 1, 6 
MenACWY-TT at Month 0  
Twinrix  at Month 0, 1, 6 
D0: MenACWY-TT (IM) + Priorix-Tetra (SC) 
D84: Priorix-Tetra (SC) 
  D0: MenACWY-TT (IM) 
  D42 and D84: Priorix-Tetra (SC) 
  D0: Meningitec (IM) 
  D42 and D84: Priorix-Tetra (SC) 
  D0 and D84: Priorix-Tetra(SC) 
  D42: Meningitec (IM) 
MenACWY-TT + DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib at M0 
MenACWY-TT at M0 and  
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib at M1 
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib at M0 and  
MenACWY-TT at M1 
Meningitec at M0 
Pneumococcal conjugate unprimed group only in this 
multi-arm study of Synflorix:  
MenACWY-TT + Infanrix hexa 
Toddlers 
12-23 months 
Booster dose after 3 infant 
doses of Synflorix:  
MenACWY-TT + 
Synflorix 
Nimenrix 
Page 52/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adolescents 11-17 years ± Twinrix 
On D0 98.3-100% had rSBA titres  1:128 and GMTs had increased by 54- to 224-fold. The applicant 
concluded that non-inferiority was demonstrated for responses to ACWY-TT (based on rSBA GMT  
Adjusted GMT ratios (ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1) 
Antibody 
rSBA-MenA 
rSBA-MenC 
rSBA-MenW-135 
rSBA-MenY 
Group 
Co-ad 
ACWY-TT 
N 
261 
355 
349 
354 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
5087.3 
4404.1 
8608.2 
8753.2 
N 
84 
112 
114 
113 
Adjusted  
 GMT 
5139.1 
4849.8 
8465.5 
8684.3 
Adjusted  GMT ratio 
95% CI 
Value 
LL 
0.99 
0.91 
1.02 
1.01 
0.80 
0.68 
0.87 
0.85 
UL 
1.22 
1.21 
1.19 
1.19 
The rSBA data in the Twinrix Adult or Twinrix Junior sub-groups showed comparable results between 
formulations (i.e. age groups). However, GMTs for each meningococcal group were generally higher in 
the younger cohort regardless of whether or not Twinrix was co-administered.  
On D0 the anti-HAV seropositivity rates were 3% and 2%. All subjects seronegative at baseline had 
seroconverted for HAV at M7 with a lower limit of the 95% CI for the difference in rates of -1.19% and 
with 7.6-7.9-fold increases in GMCs (actual values 5876.7 and 6739.0). On D0 very few were 
seroprotected with respect to anti-HBsAg (maximum 0.3%). The M7 seroprotection rates were 99.1% 
and 100% with a lower limit of the 95% CI for the difference in rates of -2.64%. The anti-HBs GMCs 
reached 6088.2 and 7654.7. Exploratory evaluations revealed no statistically significant differences 
between vaccine groups for responses to HAV and HBsAg in either age/vaccine cohort. 
Toddlers 12-23 months ± Priorix Tetra 
The applicant concluded that non-inferiority was demonstrated for D42 responses to ACWY-TT based 
on a lower bound of the 95% CI for the percentages with MenC rSBA titres as shown of 0.29.  
Antibody 
rSBA-MenC 
Type 
 1:8 
 1:128 
ACWY-TT 
n 
353 
339 
N 
354 
354 
% 
99.7
95.8
MenCCRM 
n 
118 
85 
N 
121 
121 
% 
97.5
70.2
Difference  
95% CI 
% 
2.20 
25.51 
LL 
0.29 
17.72 
UL 
6.78 
34.41 
The non-inferiority of ACWY-TT co-administered with MMRV vs. ACWY-TT alone was demonstrated 
based on lower 95% CIs for difference in percentages  1:8 at D42. The responses to MMR and 
varicella components were very high even after the first dose with no appreciable difference in 
GMCs/GMTs except for a lower GMC for anti-rubella antibody after the first dose was co-administered 
based on 95% CI that (just) did not overlap. There was no difference after the second dose. 
Toddlers 12-23 months ± Infanrix hexa 
Subjects were to have completed a 3-dose primary immunisation series using vaccines to deliver DTaP, 
HBsAg, IPV and Hib antigens at least 6 months previously. The applicant concluded that co-
administration did not affect rSBA responses to ACWY-TT based on the pre-defined non-inferiority 
margin for % with rSBA ≥1:8. In fact almost all subjects reached 1:128.  
Nimenrix 
Page 53/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Giving Infanrix hexa before ACWY-TT appeared to blunt rSBA responses to all four meningococcal 
groups. For example, GMTs were consistently lower in the group that received Infanrix hexa before 
ACWY-TT. In contrast, the ACWY-TT group had statistically significantly higher post-vaccination rSBA-
MenA, rSBAMenC and rSBA-W-135 GMTs adjusted for pre-vaccination measurements vs. the Hexa 
group. The Company proposed that the lower GMTs observed when Infanrix hexa was given first are of 
limited clinical relevance, since at least 99.4% had rSBA ≥128 for MenA and MenW135 while 88.2% 
had rSBA ≥128 for MenC (100% at ≥8). Also, percentages with rSBA-MenC titres ≥8 and ≥128 were 
comparable between the two groups. 
Study 040 allows for an assessment of the effect of administering a booster dose of Infanrix hexa one 
month after ACWY-TT by comparison with the Hexa group. The table below shows that the anti-TT 
GMC one month after a dose of Infanrix hexa (Hexa) administered following ACWY-TT (13.97) was 
statistically significantly higher than observed after Infanrix hexa alone (8.2), indicating that prior 
ACWY-TT did not blunt the anti-TT immune response to Infanrix hexa. 
Nimenrix 
Page 54/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table above shows that a dose of ACWY-TT achieves a comparable boost in anti-TT concentrations 
compared to Infanrix hexa (7.94 vs. 6.12). In addition, a dose of ACWY-TT after Infanrix hexa 
achieves a significant rise in the anti-TT GMC (based on non-overlapping 95% CI) vs. Infanrix hexa 
alone. However, giving Infanrix hexa after ACWY-TT achieves a GMC that is significantly higher than 
that observed at M2 in the Hexa group.  
Non-inferiority for the co-administration (Co-ad) vs. Hexa group was demonstrated for GMCs for 
antibody to PT, FHA and PRN and for percentages with anti-HBsAg  10 mIU/ml and anti-PRP  1.0 
g/ml. Regarding non-inferiority for Co-ad vs. Hexa in terms of anti-D, anti-T and anti-poliovirus titres 
the lower limit of the 95% CI was  -10% for each comparison. 
Toddlers 12-23 months + Synflorix 
A booster dose of Synflorix was administered with and without ACWY-TT to toddlers who had received 
three doses of Synflorix in infancy. One month after ACWY-TT titres  1:128 were observed in 97.5%-
100% regardless of separate or co-administration. Comparisons of the GMTs also indicated that either 
co-administration with Synflorix or separate administrations in either order were acceptable strategies 
for the ACWY-TT vaccine in previously unvaccinated toddlers. 
With regard to responses to Synflorix, all vaccine groups showed increases in antibody GMCs for all 
serotypes after booster vaccination. While the lower limit of the 95% CI was > 0.5 for 9/10 
pneumococcal serotypes (range 0.66 to 0.84) the ratio for anti-18C was 0.41. In addition, the GMC 
against serotype 18C was statistically significantly lower in the Co-ad group compared to the 10Pn 
group. Nevertheless, post-boost at least 96.0% had  0.20 g/mL for each serotype with no 
statistically significant differences between the vaccine groups. Also, at least 92.9% had an OPA  1:8 
to all pneumococcal serotypes but there was a statistically significantly lower GMT on co-administration 
for 18C. No other differences were observed between groups. 
Uncontrolled study in infants 
Study 
MenACWY-TT-
055/062 (US) 
062 extension to M12 
Population 
Infants 
(9-12 months of age) 
Study groups 
MenACWY-TT (IM) at 12 months of age  
MenACWY-TT (IM) at 9 and 12 months of age  
Subjects were 12 months old (mean 12.2 months, range 12-13 months) when they received the 
assigned first or second dose. At M4 of study the percentages with hSBA  1:8 and GMTs were at least 
numerically higher in the 2-dose group.   
hSBA titres ≥1:4 and 1:8 and GMTs (ATP cohort for immunogenicity) 
≥1:4 
≥1:8 
GMT 
Antibody 
hSBA-MenA 
hSBA-MenC 
Group 
ACWY-1  PI(M4) 
ACWY-2  PI(M1) 
ACWY-1  PI(M4) 
ACWY-2  PI(M1) 
95% CI 
n  % 
Timing  N 
LL  UL  N  % 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
31.9 
19.5 
17.7 
10.5 
39.6 
65.1 
126.3  206.5 
110.0 
63.8 
PII(M4)  137  137  100  97.3  100  137  100  97.3  100  1105.5  906.2  1348.6 
132  115  87.1  80.2  92.3  105  79.5  71.7  86.1  24.9 
128  90  70.3  61.6  78.1  81  63.3  54.3  71.6  13.6 
PII(M4)  138  122  88.4  81.9  93.2  122  88.4  81.9  93.2  50.8 
130  123  94.6  89.2  97.8  123  94.6  89.2  97.8  161.5 
127  115  90.6  84.1  95.0  115  90.6  84.1  95.0  83.7 
value 
hSBA-MenW-135 
ACWY-1  PI(M4) 
ACWY-2  PI(M1) 
118  63  53.4  44.0  62.6  60  50.8  41.5  60.2  11.6 
117  24  20.5  13.6  29.0  22  18.8  12.2  27.1  3.5 
8.2 
2.8 
16.4 
4.3 
Nimenrix 
Page 55/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥1:4 
95% CI 
≥1:8 
GMT 
95% CI 
LL  UL 
95% CI 
UL 
Antibody 
Group 
Timing  N 
PII(M4)  143  142  99.3  96.2  100  142  99.3  96.2  100  1062.9  878.4  1286.3 
LL  UL  N  % 
n  % 
value 
LL 
hSBA-MenY 
ACWY-1  PI(M4) 
ACWY-2  PI(M1) 
132  79  59.8  51.0  68.3  74  56.1  47.2  64.7  15.7 
131  52  39.7  31.3  48.6  49  37.4  29.1  46.3  7.0 
PII(M4)  146  145  99.3  96.2  100  145  99.3  96.2  100  475.2 
22.1 
9.5 
11.1 
5.2 
392.2  575.9 
The possible clinical relevance of the low percentage of subjects with hSBA ≥ 1:4 (53-59%) measured 
one month after vaccination with a single dose for MenW-135 and Y was addressed further. 
Comparisons across studies showed that the hSBA MenW-135 and Y titres following a single dose of 
ACWY-TT vaccine in the second year of life were at least as high as those following a single dose of 
Mencevax in children 6 to 10 years of age. Also, in toddlers after Meningitec group the hSBA MenW and 
MenY titres were much lower than those in the ACWY-TT group and slightly increased over time 
indicating acquisition of natural immunity. 
At M12 the percentages with hSBA titres 1:8 were 87.5%, 89.4% and 80.0% for MenC, MenW-135 
and Men Y, respectively, in the ACWY-1 group. Higher percentages (91.2%, 99.1% and 92.5%, 
respectively) had such titres in the ACWY-2 group. In contrast, against MenA 20.6% ACWY-1 and 
25.9% ACWY-2 subjects had hSBA titres 1:8. The rSBA data and the ELISA data did not show any 
consistent benefit for one vs. two doses at M4 or M12. 
The bactericidal activity of IgM assayed with rabbit complement has been reported to be 30- to 1,000-
fold higher than when assayed with human complement. Higher IgM concentrations after one vaccine 
dose at 12 months of age than after 2 doses at 9 and 12 months of age may therefore explain the 
higher rSBA titres achieved for MenA, W-135 and Y after one dose at 12 months of age than after the 
2 doses at 9 and 12 months of age.  
IgG and IgM GMCs measured by Luminex in study MenACWY-TT-055 
IgG GMC (g/ml) 
95% CI 
IgM GMC (g/ml) 
95% CI 
value 
Serogroup 
Group 
Timing 
A 
C 
W-135 
Y 
ACWY-1 
ACWY-2 
ACWY-1 
ACWY-2 
ACWY-1 
ACWY-2 
ACWY-1 
ACWY-2 
PI(M4) 
PI(M1) 
PII(M4) 
PI(M4) 
PI(M1) 
PII(M4) 
PI(M4) 
PI(M1) 
PII(M4) 
PI(M4) 
PI(M1) 
PII(M4) 
N 
20 
22 
22 
20 
22 
22 
20 
22 
21 
20 
22 
22 
value 
36.08 
18.88 
60.18 
7.41 
6.60 
24.23 
1.59 
1.38 
27.67 
2.30 
1.87 
25.80 
LL 
24.46 
13.68 
38.68 
5.71 
4.61 
15.73 
1.08 
0.91 
17.58 
1.50 
1.14 
15.17 
UL 
53.21 
26.06 
93.61 
9.62 
9.45 
37.30 
2.34 
2.09 
43.55 
3.54 
3.08 
43.89 
N 
20 
22 
22 
20 
22 
22 
20 
22 
22 
20 
22 
22 
2.85 
1.40 
1.46 
0.46 
0.27 
0.18 
0.59 
0.42 
0.41 
0.70 
0.33 
0.36 
LL 
1.72 
1.00 
0.99 
0.33 
0.19 
0.13 
0.43 
0.28 
0.25 
0.45 
0.20 
0.21 
UL 
4.71 
1.96 
2.15 
0.63 
0.39 
0.25 
0.82 
0.64 
0.69 
1.07 
0.54 
0.63 
To further assess whether antibody maturation occurs between the first and second dose, avidity was 
measured on the same blood samples used for Luminex assays. The avidity index increased between 
dose 1 and dose 2 for each group, indicating that antibody maturation occurred. The GMCs measured 
by the avidity ELISA were similar after the first and after the second dose for MenA and were higher 
after the second dose for MenW-135 and Y. These data further suggested that successive doses of 
ACWY-TT vaccine were not inducing hypo-responsiveness. 
Nimenrix 
Page 56/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibody titres against MenA were also measured by rSBA at the HPA. The HPA rSBA data showed that 
titres obtained following one dose were similar to those obtained after 2 doses whereas the GSK assay 
gave lower titres after the second dose than after a single dose. The MAH noted that this discrepancy 
may be explained by the observation that HPA rSBA assays are less sensitive than GSK rSBA assays to 
naturally acquired immunity, a phenomenon which is thought to be due to the GSK assay detecting 
IgM or low affinity IgG which is not detected by the HPA assay. 
HPA rSBA MenA titres and GMTs in ACWY-TT-055 (ATP subset tested at HPA) 
GMT 
 128 
 8 
Antibody 
Group 
Timing 
rSBA-MenA 
ACWY-1 
ACWY-2 
PI(M4) 
PI(M1) 
PII(M4) 
N 
n  % 
95% CI 
LL 
95% CI 
UL 
LL 
20  19  95.0  75.1  99.8  18  90.0  68.3  98.8 
22  21  95.5  77.2  99.9  17  77.3  54.6  92.2 
22  22  100  84.6  100  21  95.5  77.1  99.9 
UL  n  % 
95% CI 
value 
558.4 
230.4 
587.5 
LL 
333.4 
139.7 
375.4 
UL 
935.4 
379.9 
919.4 
Analyses and observations across studies 
Adults, adolescents and children aged at least 2 years - ACWY-TT vs. Mencevax 
The functional antibody data indicated that ACWY-TT is at least as immunogenic as Mencevax and 
there seemed to be some advantages for the conjugate demonstrated by rSBA and available hSBA 
data.  
The persistence of MenA antibody measured by hSBA was low compared to that documented for the 
other three meningococcal groups across the ACWY-TT studies and across the various age groups 
enrolled (see further regarding toddlers below). A similar rapid decrease in MenA titres measured by 
rSBA was not observed in ACWY-TT studies. The hSBA MenA GMT at M12 after vaccination with ACWY-
TT in children aged 6 - <11 years in study 028 was comparable to that observed in the Mencevax 
group in the same age cohort. In addition, similar M12 GMTs were observed with ACWY-TT and 
Menactra in subjects aged 11 - <25 years in study 059. 
Long-term  persistence  as  measured  by  HPA  rSBA  and  GSK  hSBA  data  have  been  generated  or  are 
planned to be generated, including booster doses, as shown in the table below. 
Nimenrix 
Page 57/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of studies in which long-term data have been generated or are planned to be generated 
Phase 
Study objective 
Age 
Study 
n. 
Study phase 
Study 
status 
II 
II 
Dose range and 
comparison vs 
Mencevax 
Dose range and 
comparison versus 
Meningitec (in 
children vaccinated 
at 12-14 months) 
and Mencevax (in 
children at 3-5 
years) 
II 
Comparison vs 
Mencevax 
II 
Comparison vs 
mencevax (2-10 
years) and vs 
Mengitec (1-2 
years) 
15-19 
-012 
Vaccination 
completed 
-024 
-025 
-026 
18 months 
FU 
30 months 
FU 
42 months 
FU 
completed 
completed 
completed 
1-5y 
-013 
Vaccination 
completed 
-014 
15 months 
FU 
completed 
11-55y 
-015 
Vaccination 
completed 
-016 
1 year FU 
completed 
-017 
2 years FU 
completed 
-018 
3 years FU 
ongoing 
-019 
4 years FU 
ongoing 
-020 
5 years FU 
planned 
1-10y 
-027 
Vaccination 
completed 
-028 
1 year FU 
completed 
-029 
2 years FU 
completed 
-030 
3 years FU 
ongoing 
-031 
4 years FU 
ongoing 
-032 
5 years FU 
planned 
II 
Comparison vs 
Menectra 
10-25y 
-052 
Vaccination 
completed 
-059 
1y FU,  
completed 
3 y FU,  
ongoing 
5y FU + 
booster 
planned 
Nimenrix 
Page 58/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 
Study objective 
Age 
II 
One dose at 12 
months vs 2 doses 
at respectively 9 
and 12 months of 
age 
9-12 
months 
Study 
n. 
Study phase 
Study 
status 
-055 
Vaccination 
completed 
-062 
1 y FU,  
completed 
3 y FU,  
ongoing 
5 y FU + 
booster 
planned 
III 
Comparison vs 
Mencevax 
11-17 
-036 
Vaccination 
completed 
-043 
2 y FU 
completed 
III 
Comparison vs 
Meningitec 
coadministration 
Priorix tetra 
3 y FU 
ongoing 
4 y FU  
ongoing 
5 y FU 
planned 
1-2 
-039 
Vaccination 
completed 
-048 
2 y FU 
completed 
3 y FU 
ongoing 
4 y FU + 
booster dose 
5 y FU 
ongoing 
planned 
III 
Comparison vs 
Mejugate 
2-10 
-081 
Vaccination 
completed 
-088 
32 mo FU 
ongoing 
44 mo FU 
planned 
56 mo FU 
planned 
68 mo FU 
+booster 
dose 
planned 
In the ACWY-TT studies the pre-vaccination rSBA and hSBA titres were observed to be higher with 
increasing age. The anti-PS concentrations measured by ELISA also showed this age-related pattern. 
These results reflected published age-related changes in meningococcal nasopharyngeal carriage rates. 
On comparing studies conducted in the same age group but in different regions a trend towards higher 
pre-vaccination SBA titres for all meningococcal groups was observed in Middle East and Asian 
countries compared to pooled data.  
A review of the demographic characteristics by country showed that the ethnic background can be 
considered homogenous within a given country in most cases. An evaluation of effects of each of ethnic 
background and geographical region was therefore not possible for the majority of the studies. 
Analyses of vaccination responses did not show a consistent effect of geographical region. 
Children 2-10 years vs. Menjugate 
There was no comparison with the licensed monovalent MenC-TT conjugate (NeisVac-C), which would 
have been of considerable interest. Instead the applicant chose to compare ACWY-TT with two CRM197 
conjugates (Menjugate in this age group and Meningitec in the second year of life as below). In the 
study vs. Menjugate the MenC GMTs in each age stratum were significantly higher in the licensed 
vaccine group although there were no differences in % with titres  1:128. There were no HPA rSBA or 
Nimenrix 
Page 59/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hSBA data generated in this study that might assist in the interpretation of the findings. The ELISA 
data showed a higher percentage with  2 g/ml against MenC in the Menjugate group but the GMCs 
were not statistically significantly different. There were no antibody persistence data.  
Children 12-23 months, including comparisons with Meningitec 
Since Mencevax is not an appropriate comparator for this age group the studies focussed on 
comparisons vs. a licensed MenCC vaccine and between vaccinated and unvaccinated subjects for Men 
A, W and Y. Only study 013/014 in this application dossier provided data on immune memory. This 
was assessed by administration of 1/5 dose of Mencevax at 15 months after a first dose of either 
ACWY-TT or Meningitec had been given at the age of 12-14 months. The rSBA and hSBA GMTs after 
challenge were higher than observed after priming and GMTs against MenC were comparable between 
those primed with ACWY-TT or Meningitec.   
In children aged 12-23 months the rSBA responses to the MenC-TT in the ACWY-TT vaccine were at 
least as good as those to Meningitec and the data out to M24 indicated an advantage for ACWY-TT. 
There were also advantages for ACWY-TT shown by the anti-MenC hSBA data to M12. The responses to 
MenA, W and Y in this age group were convincing when rSBA or hSBA assays were used, 
demonstrating marked differences between the ACWY-TT group and those who received only 
Meningitec.  
In the responses to the List of Questions (LOQ) the applicant clarified exactly how many were aged 
e.g. 12-15 months vs. 16-23 months and further investigated whether a single dose was just as 
immunogenic regardless of exact age within the second year of life. The rSBA data indicated that the 
MenC component of ACWY-TT elicited comparable immune responses to Meningitec regardless of age 
stratum in the second year of life. The hSBA data pointed to greater immune response to ACWY-TT vs. 
Meningitec regardless of age stratum in the second year of life. 
For MenA, W-135 and Y a comparison was made between immune responses to ACWY-TT in toddlers 
and immune responses to Mencevax in children aged from 2 to < 11 years. The rSBA data 
demonstrated broadly comparable responses to ACWY-TT in the second year of life vs. responses to 
Mencevax in older children in terms of percentages of subjects with rSBA MenA, W-135 and Y titres of 
at least 1:128. The rSBA GMTs also appeared to be broadly comparable across the two age ranges but 
within the 12 – 23 months age range there was a trend towards higher GMTs as age increased within 
the second year of life. The hSBA data mostly suggested that immune responses to MenA, W and Y 
increased by age during the second year of life. Nevertheless, in each stratum from 12-23 months the 
responses were at least as good as those observed with Mencevax in children aged 6 to < 11 years.  
Antibody persistence data according to age strata in the second year of life were provided from study 
030 (Year 3 of study 027) and study 048 (Year 2 of study 039). The rSBA data at Year 3 in study 030 
showed that GMTs and percentages with titres at least 1:128 were higher with age at time of 
vaccination for MenA, W135 and Y. Year 2 data in study 048 showed the same GMT trend for MenA and 
MenY but only MenY showed the differences in titres at least 1:128. The MenC titres did not show a 
consistent pattern according to age at time of vaccination. 
The hSBA MenW-135 and MenY GMTs increased consistently at the first persistence time point across 
different age groups and studies. In study 027 M12 hSBA data were generated for the 12-23 months 
and 6 to < 11 years age groups whereas at M24 and M36 hSBA data were obtained in toddlers only. 
The hSBA MenW-135 and Y titres had increased at M12 and then started decreasing up to M24. At M36 
the hSBA titres were still as high as those at M1. Others have suggested that the apparent increases in 
W-135 and Y antibody over time may be due to slow onset of the initial immune response resulting in 
the peak antibody level occurring after the time of the post-vaccination sample or due to a priming 
Nimenrix 
Page 60/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
event followed by natural boosting phenomena. In addition, in study 039 blood sampling was delayed 
to 42-56 days. A trend for higher hSBA MenW-135 GMTs was observed for subjects with sampling at > 
35 and > 45 days post-vaccination vs. subjects in study 027 who were sampled at M1. For MenY such 
a trend was not observed which may be due to an even slower antibody response compared to MenW-
135.  
The hSBA titres against MenC were well maintained regardless of age stratum and titres were at least 
as good and in almost all cases higher in the ACWY-TT group vs. the Meningitec group. The hSBA titres 
against MenW135 and MenY were reasonably well maintained up to Year 3 with no consistent trend 
according to age stratum within the second year of life.  
The rSBA and hSBA data for MenA showed a very marked drop between M1 and M12 after vaccination 
in the second year of life. However, in contrast to the rSBA data, the hSBA data indicated that MenA 
titres were poorly maintained from M12 onwards regardless of age stratum, with no consistent trend to 
higher titres in the oldest vs. youngest stratum. In addition, the persistence of MenA antibody 
measured by hSBA was low across ACWY-TT studies and across age groups from which such data were 
obtained, suggesting that this is not primarily due to the age at primary vaccination with ACWY-TT. 
The comparison made below shows that hSBA titres at M12 post ACWY-TT in the 1 to < 2 years age 
group were comparable to those at M12 post ACWY-TT in the 6 to < 11 years age group and higher 
than observed at M12 after Mencevax in subjects aged 6 to < 11 years.  
Percentage  of  subjects  with  hSBA  MenA  titres  >  8  anf  hSBA  MenA  GMT  in  1-  <2,  6-  <11 
years of age 1 month and 12 months post-vaccination in study MenACWY-TT-028 
A potential explanation for the discrepancy between rSBA and hSBA persistence data regarding MenA 
may reflect the ability of MenA to induce higher levels of IgM compared to other groups and the 
observation that the GSK rSBA assays are sensitive to presence of IgM. For example, a high quantity 
of persisting anti-PSA IgM was detected in adolescents/adults at 1 year after vaccination (studies 
015/016). Although IgM are not detected by hSBA assay, there is no evidence that these IgM may not 
be bactericidal in vivo. The applicant plans to investigate further the hSBA MenA persistence in the 
ongoing and planned persistence studies shown in the table (see also section 2.7). 
Nimenrix 
Page 61/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overview of completed and planned persistence studies in toddlers 
Discrepancies between SBA and ELISA results 
In several studies it seemed that the SBA suggested an advantage for the ACWY-TT vaccines vs. 
comparators, including Mencevax, while the ELISA data did not show this and sometimes suggested an 
advantage for Mencevax. The Company was asked to address possible reasons for the discrepancies 
noted between the rSBA/hSBA and the ELISA data. Correlation analyses between these in-house were 
performed for all time points and treatment groups in studies 015 and 027 with r values calculated 
according to the Spearman's method including a correction factor relative to the variance of the 
assays. For MenA, W-135 and Y there was a higher correlation between hSBA titres and IgG 
concentrations as compared to the correlations between rSBA and IgG. For MenC there was a higher 
correlation than observed for other groups and the correlations between each of the SBAs and IgG 
looked comparable.  
In study 015 the correlations between anti-PS IgG and GSK rSBA dropped at persistence time points in 
the ACWY-TT group compared to M1 while it stays stable for the Mencevax groups, suggesting that IgG 
might not be the sole immunoglobulin class responsible for the SBA titres observed. Since the rSBA 
assay is sensitive to the effect of IgM this was measured at HPA on a subset of samples using the 
Luminex technology. For all groups there was a significant concentration of anti-PS IgM at M1 that 
persisted at significant levels at M12 (not assayed at M24). The conjugate vaccine induced a higher 
level of anti-PS IgM compared to the plain polysaccharide control vaccine. The correlation between IgM 
and rSBA post-vaccination was very high in both groups. 
In study 027 at Year 2 the correlation between each of rSBA and hSBA and the IgG concentration was 
high (1.000 and 0.6635 respectively). A good correlation was also observed between rSBA and hSBA 
(0.6684). Thus, in the 1-<2 year of age group there is a good correlation between assays. The 
correlation of both SBA methodologies with IgG indicated an increase of antibody functionality (avidity) 
and a lower contribution of IgM to the observed rSBA titres in this age group. 
Nimenrix 
Page 62/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the 2 to <11 years age group the ELISA data showed superior GMCs for the conjugate vaccine for 
MenA and W-135, with no significant difference observed for MenC. For MenY a higher concentration of 
IgG was induced by Mencevax. At Year 1 and 2 higher rSBA GMTs were seen in the ACWY-TT group 
but higher concentrations of IgG were observed with Mencevax for all four meningococcal groups. 
There was a weak correlation between rSBA and ELISA assays for MenA, W-135 and Y suggesting that 
IgM might play a role in the age stratum 2-<11. For MenC a higher level of correlation was observed 
between rSBA and ELISA. 
The overall good level of correlation between hSBA titre and IgG does not explain why statistically 
significantly higher hSBA responses in the ACWY-TT group do not translate into statistically 
significantly higher anti-PS GMCs. Conflicting results between ELISA and hSBA when comparing 
conjugates vs. polysaccharide vaccines have previously been observed and such differences have been 
attributed either to the avidity of the antibodies induced by the vaccine or more recently to their 
isotypes. While avidity data and immunoglobulin isotype characterisation were not available for studies 
027/-028/-029 the 50% bactericidal concentration (BC50) values were calculated. These data showed 
that the concentration of antibodies required to reach 50% of killing is lower in the ACWY-TT group 
compared to the Mencevax group.  
Summary of main study(ies) 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application (see Appendix 2).  
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The ACWY-TT clinical development program aiming at an indication for active immunization of 
individuals from the age of 12 months and above against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by 
Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y comprises sixteen primary and eleven persistence 
studies. The program has been quite extensive, investigating various age groups and co-administration 
with other vaccines part of the routine vaccination schedule. The studies reported appear to have been 
well conducted. A GCP inspection recommended that data from one site should not be included in the 
evaluation of the MAA. This site actually enrolled over one third of the total subjects in the study 
(392/1025). A sensitivity analysis of study -036 (by excluding data fromthis site) was performed to 
investigate the potential impact of immunogenicity and safety data from this site on study outcomes 
and conclusions. Removal of this site did not significantly change the total number of subjects aged 11 
to 17 years vaccinated with one dose of MenACWY-TT with over 1200 subjects remaining in this age 
category. The CHMP concluded that there are sufficient immunogenicity data from the other studies 
included in the MAA to support the conclusions drawn previously regarding the use of MenACWY-TT in 
adolescents aged 11-17 years.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Currently there is no suitable vaccine against MenA, W135 or Y for children aged 12-23 months. The 
plain polysaccharide vaccines may elicit low level and short-lived antibody but they do not elicit a T-cell 
dependent immune response. Hence, they do not provide immune priming and they may predispose to 
impaired immune responses to subsequent doses of plain or conjugated polysaccharide. 
Nimenrix 
Page 63/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
In light of this fact it is important to recognise that the available immunogenicity data in toddlers aged 
12-23 months demonstrate immune responses that are at least as high as those to an approved MenC 
conjugate and higher than immune responses to plain ACWY polysaccharides in older children. In 
addition, the responses in toddlers to a challenge dose of plain polysaccharide in study 014 
demonstrated that the initial dose of ACWY-TT had elicited immune memory.  
The applicant has clarified proportions of immune responses in three age strata in the range 12-23 
months and has shown no clear pattern by age for rSBA data while the hSBA data mostly suggested 
that immune responses increased by age during the second year of life. The applicant stressed the fact 
that immune responses in each stratum from 12-23 months were at least as good as those observed 
with Mencevax in older children. The CHMP concurred with this conclusion; however such a comparison 
does not mean that the immune responses to a single dose of ACWY-TT could not be improved upon 
by administration of a second dose.  
In this regard the further exploration of the data on one dose at 12 months vs. two doses at 9 and 12 
months has demonstrated the differences in results obtained with various assays. It may well be that 
the IgM content of sera is at least contributing to the differences observed between GSK and HPA rSBA 
data and to the different patterns observed between GSK’s rSBA data, the hSBA data and IgG.  
The applicant demonstrated that a more rapid decline in MenA hSBA vs. other meningococcal groups 
occurs with other vaccines and in other age groups.  The CHMP noted these findings and concurred 
that the clinical relevance is unknown. The fact that the anti-Men A SBA titres under-estimate 
protection based on effectiveness data are questionable.  
With regard to the observed response to MenW135 and MenY it does seem possible that the post-
vaccination sampling time may not be picking up peak responses. It is also possible that a mixture of 
reasons, including natural boosting, could contribute to the changes in titres over time. These 
conclusions were noted and accepted by the CHMP. 
The overall picture is of a conjugated vaccine that is immunogenic and primes the immune system 
even in toddlers aged 12-15 months. The applicant is planning to conduct one study (study 087) while 
another study is ongoing (study 062 follow up persistence study of study 055) with the intention to 
explore alternative immunization schedules and believes that these studies will address the need to 
evaluate persistence of antibodies following a 1 or a 2 dose schedule. Study -062 will evaluate 
antibody persistence following administration of one dose of Nimenrix at age 12 months or two doses 
at age 9 and 12 months followed by evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose 
administered at 5 years post-vaccination (see section 2.5.4 efficacy conclusions, 2.7 pharmacovigilance 
activities and section 4 outcome). The CHMP considered these data to be crucial in confirming the 
persistence of the vaccine.  
In study -087, there is no persistence phase planned. However, the applicant does not currently have a 
study ongoing or planned to evaluate immediate and longer term antibody titres elicited by one or two 
doses of Nimenrix administered in children aged 12-23 months. The CHMP is of the opinion that the 
applicant should perform such a comparison in an agreed study protocol that also includes longer-term 
follow-up (see section 2.5.4 efficacy conclusions, 2.7 pharmacovilgilance activities and section 4 
outcome).  
While evidence with MenC suggests a need to maintain circulating antibody titres nevertheless the 
contribution from immune memory and herd immunity to protection should not be dismissed. Finally, it 
is not possible to conclude which dataset is the most predictive of protection (e.g. whether the 
conservative hSBA assay may be more predictive or whether the HPA or GSK rSBA assays provide the 
most accurate picture of protective antibody titres).  
Nimenrix 
Page 64/84
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP has no reason to preclude use in the age group 12-23 months however the observations 
regarding waning titres and differences between assays are reflected in the SmPC. 
While functional antibody data indicate that the ACWY-TT vaccine is at least as immunogenic as 
Mencevax in children from the age of 2 years, in adolescents and adults the ELISA data tended to show 
no advantage for the conjugate and some of the persistence data indicated lower antibody 
concentrations in the ACWY-TT group. 
The applicant has provided an interesting exploration of the correlations and the possible reasons for 
the inconsistencies that were previously observed.  
Several authors concluded that the immune responses induced by meningococcal conjugate vaccines 
could not be adequately described by use of an IgG ELISA assay alone and are better characterised by 
functional assays that are impacted by antibody avidity and isotypes. The additional data, such as IgM 
and avidity results, point to a conclusion that functional assays are impacted by both antibody avidity 
and immunoglobulin isotypes. For example, there is an impact of IgM concentrations on rSBA titres, 
which at least in part explains the conflicting results between rSBA and IgG ELISA. Therefore, the anti-
PS IgG ELISA seems to provide an incomplete picture while bactericidal activity is determined not only 
by the quantity but also by the quality of antibodies (e.g. isotype, subclass and avidity). 
The hSBA assay is described as being less sensitive to IgM than the rSBA assay but it is sensitive to 
IgG avidity and subclasses. While clinical conclusions based on IgG levels are conflicting with the hSBA 
data in studies 027/028/029, the overall high correlation observed between hSBA and IgG would 
suggest that the hSBA is sensitive to IgG of higher avidity, which is induced more by ACWY-TT vs. 
Mencevax.  
The induction of IgG of higher avidity by ACWY-TT has been demonstrated in a subset of studies 
036/043 for all meningococcal groups except for MenA. The apparent absence of avidity increase for 
MenA might relate to similar observations made by others that there is low antibody avidity maturation 
following vaccination. 
As previously concluded, ACWY-TT induces bactericidal antibody in subjects of 2 years upwards that is 
at least as high as that elicited by Mencevax.  
The applicant was requested to perform an analysis of the effect of time interval between Mencevax 
and ACWY-TT vaccination and a significant effect on the post-vaccination immune responses (rSBA or 
ELISA) was not observed. This important information is reflected in the SmPC.  
The applicant was requested to tabulate the expected longer-term hSBA data by age sub-groups. The 
total numbers remained as the ones projected, therefore the CHMP considered that sufficient longer-
term hSBA data will be available to provide further insight into antibody persistence supplementary to 
the conclusions that may be drawn from the longer term rSBA data.  
Considering in particular the rapid decline of hSBA titres against MenA, resulting in low percentages 
with titres at least 1:8 based on the currently available antibody persistence data, the applicant was 
requested to provide further data on antibody persistence and on responses to booster doses from the 
ongoing studies as they become available (see section 2.7). The CHMP requested that the statement 
on the unknown need for a booster in section 4.2 with a cross-reference to section 4.4 and 5.1. of the 
SmPC. The suggestion of making an individual patient decision despite the lack of data may is placed 
in section 4.4.   
Nimenrix 
Page 65/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The clinical program adequately supports the marketing authorisation application for Nimenrix. 
The ACWY-TT vaccine elicits functional antibody titres that are at least as high as those elicited by 
unconjugated vaccine from the age of 2 years upwards. The majority of the data suggest advantages 
for the conjugate vs. Mencevax with the least difference between vaccines observed in the oldest 
subjects. In children aged 1-2 years the rSBA and hSBA data indicate robust responses to ACWY-TT 
and responses to the MenC component are comparable with those to a licensed MenCC vaccine. ACWY-
TT was shown to elicit an immune memory response when administered at 12-14 months. The anti-
MenA hSBA titres waned quite rapidly in all age groups. The significance of this finding is unclear.  
Administration of ACWY-TT to subjects who previously received Mencevax elicited marked increments 
in functional antibody titres albeit to a lesser degree than observed in previously unvaccinated 
subjects. In addition, antibody responses to ACWY-TT showed a negative correlation with the pre-
vaccination anti-TT concentration although responses were still marked. 
The ELISA data did not always mirror the functional antibody data in terms of showing advantages or 
even comparability for the conjugate vs. Mencevax. Further discussion suggested that there are 
differences in antibody quality elicited by the conjugated vs. unconjugated vaccine that likely explain 
the differences observed.  
The data evaluated suggest that it is acceptable to co-administer ACWY-TT with Fluarix, Twinrix, Priorix 
Tetra and Infanrix hexa. Co-administration with a booster dose of Synflorix in toddlers had some 
negative effect that appeared to be confined to 18C, which is of uncertain significance. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to efficacy: 
The MAH shall perform a study to evaluate antibody persistence following administration of one dose of 
Nimenrix at age 12 months or two doses at age 9 and 12 months followed by evaluation of the safety 
and immunogenicity of a booster dose administered at 5 years post-vaccination. A final report is 
expected by December 2014. 
The MAH shall perform a study to evaluate the short and longer term antibody titres elicited following 
one or two doses of Nimenrix in children aged 12-23 months (e.g. doses administered at 
approximately 14-15 months and at 16-18 months) according to a CHMP-agreed protocol to be 
submitted within 3 months of the notification of the Commission Decision. A final study report is 
expected by June 2015. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The applicant has pooled the safety data derived from 15 of the 16 clinical studies and described the 
data from study 021 separately since this was the only study in which ACWY-TT was administered to 
subjects previously exposed to unconjugated vaccine (Mencevax). Data from the persistence studies 
are also presented separately as only SAEs were retrospectively reported. The data lock point for 
ongoing studies was 15 December 2010. 
Patient exposure 
The safety database in the initial MAA included 7598 subjects aged from 1-55 years who received one 
dose of ACWY-TT at the first study visit. This total comprises 7327 subjects who were included in the 
applicant’s pooled analysis of safety and 271 in study 021, of which 192 had previously received 
Mencevax. There were also 314 subjects in co-administration studies who received a dose of ACWY-TT 
Nimenrix 
Page 66/84
 
 
 
 
 
at the second study visit and there were 189 infants who received two doses (at 9 and 12 months). 
Data from study 093 in adults were added later. 
Number of subjects who received MenACWY-TT and comparator vaccine in the pooled 
analysis (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Adverse events  
Data collected during the 4-day (Days 0-3) follow–up period 
For local solicited symptoms 
 
 
In  the  below  2  years  age  group  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  local  AE  was  redness 
(33.0%), followed by pain (27.4%) and swelling (17.9%).  
In the 2-5, 6-10, 11-17 and ≥ 18 years age groups the most frequently reported solicited local AE 
was  pain  (24.1%,  33.8%,  39.9%  and  25.3%,  respectively)  followed  by  redness  (23.3%,  26.1%, 
14.3% and 10.3%, respectively) and swelling (13.4%, 17.7%, 11.5% and 8.5% respectively). The 
percentages reporting grade 3 solicited local symptoms were low and ranged from 0.2% to 1.5% 
for pain, 1.0% to 3.6% for redness, and 0.8% to 2.5 % for swelling. 
There were higher rates of solicited pain, redness and swelling at the injection site (27.4%, 39.6% and 
19.3%, respectively) after the administration of ACWY-TT compared to 20.3%, 31.4% and 14.6%, 
respectively, after the administration of Meningitec. The P-values were < 0.05 for all analysed events, 
with the exception of pain at the injection site of grade 3 intensity. For the comparison with Menjugate 
the most frequently reported solicited local AE in both vaccine groups was redness for subjects 2-5 
years of age and pain for subjects 6-10 years of age. There were no significant differences between 
groups for the AEs reported in the 2-5 and 6-10 years age groups. 
In comparison with Mencevax the most frequently reported solicited local AE after each vaccine was 
pain in all age groups (see the summary table below).  
 
 
 
The  incidence  of  grade  3  redness  and  grade  3  swelling  was  higher  in  the  ACWY-TT  group  for 
subjects aged 2-5 years and 6-10 years.  
The incidence of any redness and any swelling was higher in the ACWY-TT group among subjects 
aged 11-17 years. 
The incidence of any local pain, any redness and any swelling was more frequent in the ACWY-TT 
group in subjects aged ≥ 18 years. 
Relative risk between MenACWY-TT and Mencevax ACWY groups in the percentage of subjects 
reporting solicited local adverse events during the 4-day (Day 0-3) post-vaccination period (Total 
Vaccinated Cohort), MenACWY-TT -012, -013, -15, -027, -035, -36, -037 and 038 – Subjects 2-17 and 
at least 18 years of age (Pooled analysis) 
Nimenrix 
Page 67/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N = number of subjects with the documented dose 
n/% = number/percentage of subjects reporting a specified symptom 
95% CI = 95% confidence interval for relative risk (exact stratified conditional to total number of cases) 
LL = lower limit, UL = upper limit 
INF= infinite 
P-value = 2-sided exact stratified test conditional to number of cases 
BOLD= P-value < 0.05 
P-value interact = 2-sided exact Breslow and Day test for heterogeneity across studies 
* heterogeneity across studies detected from the Breslow and Day test 
Pain at the injection site was the most frequently reported solicited local AE in those previously 
(50.9%) or not exposed (35.1%) to Mencevax with rates of grade 3 pain at 4.8% and 0.0%, 
respectively. Rates of redness and swelling were 21.2% and 24.2%, respectively, in the Mencevax-
exposed group and 22.1% and 26.0% for those not previously exposed and grade 3 reactions were 
uncommon. 
For general solicited symptoms 
 
 
 
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in  the  <  2  years  age  group  was  irritability 
(40.6%) followed by drowsiness (32.1%), loss of appetite (24.8%) and fever (20.3%).  
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in  the  2-5  years  age  group  was  drowsiness 
(10.8%) followed by irritability (9.2%), loss of appetite (8.2%) and fever (8.1%). 
The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  grade  3  solicited  general  symptoms  in  both  12-23  months 
and 2-5 years age groups was low and ranged from 0.1% to 0.9%. 
Nimenrix 
Page 68/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in  the  6-10  years  age  group  was  headache 
(15.6%) followed by fatigue (15.1%), gastrointestinal symptoms (9.1%) and fever (8.4%).  
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in  the  11-17  years  age  group  was  fatigue 
(20.9%) followed by headache (20.8%), gastrointestinal symptoms (8.9%) and fever (5.3%).  
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in  the  ≥  18  years  age  group  was  headache 
(15.8%) followed by fatigue (13.0%), gastrointestinal symptoms (4.7%) and fever (4.0%). 
The percentage reporting grade 3 solicited general symptoms was low in subjects aged ≥ 6 years. 
The  incidence  of  grade  3  fatigue  and  headache  ranged  from  0.8%-1.4%  and  0.7%-1.4%, 
respectively, across ≥ 6 years age groups. The incidence of grade 3 gastrointestinal symptoms and 
grade 3 fever (>39.5°C oral equivalent) were 0.4% and 0.2%, respectively, in all age groups ≥ 6 
years. 
 
For subjects aged 1-5 and ≥ 6 years the majority of solicited general symptoms was considered to 
be related to vaccination. 
For the comparison vs. Meningitec the most frequently reported solicited general AE in both groups 
was irritability (40.2% ACWY-TT vs. 33.2% for Meningitec). The incidence of fever ≥ 37.5°C and fever 
>38.0°C in the ACWY-TT group (17.6% and 5.8%) was higher than with Meningitec (13.5% and 
3.2%). The incidence of fever assessed as related to vaccination was also higher with ACWY-TT 
(14.4%) compared to Meningitec (11.4%). 
In the comparison with Menjugate drowsiness and irritability were the most frequently reported 
solicited general AEs in subjects aged 2-5 years in both groups (14.2% and 15.4% for ACWY-TT and 
11.3% and 11.3% for Menjugate). In subjects 6-10 years of age fatigue was the most frequently 
reported solicited general AE (22.3% ACWY-TT and 22.0% Menjugate). Headache assessed as related 
to vaccination in the 6-10 years age group was higher after ACWY-TT (16.2% vs. 4.0% after 
Menjugate). 
The comparison with Mencevax showed that: 
 
 
In the 2-5 years age group the most commonly reported symptoms were drowsiness after ACWY-
TT (10.1% vs. 8.2% for Mencevax) and irritability after Mencevax (9.6% vs. 7.8% for ACWY-TT). 
In  the  6-10  and  11-17  years  age  groups  the  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  was 
headache in the ACWY-TT group (12.4% and 15.8% per age group after ACWY-TT and 11.1% and 
12.9%  after  Mencevax).  Fatigue  was  the  most  frequently  reported  in  the  Mencevax  group  for 
subjects  aged  6-10  and  11-17  years  (12.0%  and  14.7%  after  Mencevax  and  11.8%  and  15.1% 
after ACWY-TT).  
 
The  most  frequently  reported  solicited  general  AE  in the  ≥  18  years  age  group  was  headache  for 
both vaccine groups (15.2% ACWY-TT and 13.4% Mencevax). 
  Headache assessed as related to vaccination in subjects aged 11-17 years was higher in the ACWY-
TT group (12.1% vs. 8.5% for Mencevax). 
In study 021 the most common solicited general AEs were fatigue and headache but with rates of 
35.8% after prior Mencevax vs. 19.5% without for fatigue and 31.5% vs. 22.1%, respectively, for 
headache. Fatigue assessed to be related to vaccination was more common in the prior exposed group 
(32.7% vs. 11.7%) as was headache (27.3% vs. 11.7%). The incidence of fever ≥ 37.5° C oral 
equivalent was not affected by prior Mencevax (20.0% and 19.5%) but rates were 18.8% vs. 7.8% for 
fever related to vaccination. Only two and none per group had grade 3 fever (> 39.5%).  
There were 67 subjects who received ACWY-TT and reported symptoms which may have indicated a 
hypersensitivity reaction and most events were reported during the 31-day post vaccination period. 
Nimenrix 
Page 69/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AEs associated with hypersensitivity-related terms according to the onset day 
d
e
t
r
o
p
e
r
s
t
n
e
v
e
f
o
r
e
b
m
u
N
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 12 13 17 19 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 32 37 39 40 42 46 83
Onset day
Overall 16/67 subjects experienced AEs that were considered by the investigator to be causally related 
to ACWY-TT, including dyspnoea (2), pruritus (7) and urticaria (7). Two were classified as grade 3 AEs 
(1 dyspnoea and 1 urticaria). Only urticaria was reported at a frequency greater than 0.1% (0.3% over 
the 6-month safety follow-up period). In addition, 31/67 events occurred more than one week after 
ACWY-TT administration, which suggests they were unlikely to be vaccine hypersensitivity reactions. 
Approximately 25% of subjects reported additional events suggesting that a concurrent illness was 
present. For remaining events, individual symptoms were reported but no differences were observed in 
the reporting rate of hypersensitivity symptoms between the ACWY-TT and control groups. 
Unsolicited AEs to D30 post-vaccination 
Percentages reporting at least one unsolicited AE after a dose of ACWY-TT ranged from 44.5% for 
those aged < 2 years, 23.5% aged 2-5 years, 17.3% aged 6-10 years, 12.3% aged 11-17 years and 
13.8% aged ≥ 18 years. Upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) was the most frequently reported 
unsolicited AE in all age groups (between 1.4% and 6.5%). The percentage with at least one grade 3 
unsolicited AE ranged between 1.0% and 5.3% across age groups. Rates of all related and related 
grade 3 AEs ranged from 2.9%-9.9% and 0.1%-0.9%, respectively, across age groups.  
Details of unsolicited AEs are provided by age group. These varied widely in type and either showed no 
difference between vaccine groups or occurred in such low numbers that no conclusions can be drawn 
regarding between-group differences.  
A higher percentage reported at least one unsolicited AE considered to be related to vaccination in the 
ACWY-TT group (14.4%) vs. 7.2% in the Meningitec group. No differences were observed with respect 
to individual unsolicited symptoms of any intensity considered to be related to vaccination between 
ACWY-TT and Meningitec groups. At least one unsolicited AE of grade 3 intensity considered to be 
related to vaccination was reported by 1.3% ACWY-TT and 0.5% Meningitec subjects. There were no 
marked differences between ACWY-TT and either Menjugate or Mencevax. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There were no deaths reported during Days 0-30 post-vaccination period in any study. There was one 
unrelated death (drowning) in a toddler enrolled into study 040 on day 75 post-vaccination. 
Nimenrix 
Page 70/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pooled analysis 28/7327 (0.4%) subjects who received ACWY-TT reported at least one SAE. The 
rates were 0.8% for those aged < 2 years, 0.3% aged 2-5 years, 0.2% aged 11-17 years and 0.3% of 
adults and none was reported by subjects aged 6 to 10 years. None of the SAEs reported by subjects 
up to 5 years was considered to be related to vaccination while there were two SAEs reported by one 
subject in the 11-17 years age group (concussion and syncope) that were considered to be related to 
vaccination by the investigator. In adults there were two SAEs (abdominal pain and gastritis) reported 
by one subject 5 days after vaccination with ACWY-TT that were considered to be related to 
vaccination by the investigator. Among the 7327 subjects exposed to ACWY-TT there were two 
subjects who reported nervous system disorder SAEs (one case of febrile convulsion in the < 2 years 
age group and one case of syncope in the 11-17 years age group). 
Among the 7201 subjects who received ACWY-TT and were included in the pooled analysis, 135 
(1.9%) reported at least one SAE in the ESFU up to 6 months. Each SAE term was reported in ≤ 0.5% 
of subjects per age stratum. The safety database for ongoing studies was still blinded at the time of 
data lock point (DLP). Seven SAEs reported in five subjects vaccinated with ACWY-TT were considered 
by the investigator as causally related to vaccination. However, review of these cases does not suggest 
that the AEs were related to ACWY-TT. During the completed studies or during the follow-up period 
there were 23 pregnancies reported. Currently there is no evidence that ACWY-TT has an adverse 
effect on pregnancy outcomes. 
Safety related to co-administration with other vaccines 
The studies were as follows: 
Overview of co-administration studies 
For solicited symptoms to D4 in study 039, redness was the most frequently reported solicited local AE 
in all three groups with reporting rates of 33.6% to 38.6% at the Priorix tetra site and 35.5% to 
40.5% at the ACWY-TT site. Grade 3 rates of 0.3% to 4.4% applied to the ACWY-TT sites only. Rates 
of local symptoms were not higher on co-administration. Irritability was the most frequently reported 
solicited general symptom (50.7% in the Co-ad group, 40.9% in the ACWY-TT group and 38.7% in the 
Priorix tetra group) but grade 3 solicited general symptoms were reported in 1.6% or fewer per group. 
Co-administration increased the rate of drowsiness related to vaccination (31.5% vs. 21.8% for Priorix 
tetra), all and related irritability (50.7% and 49.9% vs. 38.7% and 37.1%) and fever > 39.5 °C (none 
vs. 1.6%). Co-administration also increased the rate of fever ≥ 38°C (14.9% vs. 9.3% for ACWY-TT) 
and rates of all and related irritability (50.7% and 49.9% vs. 40.9% and 40.9%). 
Nimenrix 
Page 71/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MMRV-specific solicited general AEs were also sought up to D43. Fever occurred in 78.7% in the Co-ad 
group, 44.7% in the ACWY-TT group and 79.8% in the Priorix tetra group. Rash was reported in 31.7% 
in the Co-ad group, 18.0% in the ACWY-TT group and 29.0% in the Priorix tetra group. The incidence 
of grade 3 rash was higher in the Priorix tetra group compared to the Co-ad group (8.1% vs. 3.5%). 
The rate of fever >40°C assessed as related to vaccination was higher in the Co-ad group compared to 
the Priorix tetra group (3.5% vs. none). 
Additional presentations of the data demonstrate that in the 43 days after dosing the rates of MMRV-
specific solicited general AEs were comparable between the Co-ad and MMRV groups. Also, there were 
no statistical differences in concomitant medication rates between the Co-ad group and MMRV group in 
this period. Co-administration of MMRV and ACWY-TT did not increase the number of unsolicited 
adverse events compared to vaccination with MMRV alone. 
There was no difference in the incidence of fever > 40°C irrespective of the assessment of causality to 
vaccination. The Company concluded that this finding suggests that the higher incidence of grade 3 
fever considered by the investigator as related to vaccination in the 15-day post-vaccination follow-up 
period observed in the Co-ad group compared to the MMRV group is probably of limited clinical 
relevance. No febrile seizures were reported by any subject in any group in this study during the 31-
day follow-up period. One febrile convulsion was reported by a subject in the ACWY-TT group in the 
extended safety follow-up period. 
The MAH concluded that overall it seemed that co-administration of ACWY-TT with MMRV is unlikely to 
be associated with a safety profile that is substantially different vs. MMRV alone. On that basis, it 
would also be reasonable to conclude that co-administration of ACWY-TT with MMR would be unlikely 
to be associated with a safety profile substantially different from that of MMR.  
In study 040, co-administration of ACWY-TT and Infanrix hexa did not result in an increase in injection 
site reactogenicity at the ACWY-TT injection site except for grade 3 pain. Co-administration increased 
the rate of any and related drowsiness (38.6% and 29.1% in the Co-ad group vs. 25.7% and 15.6% in 
the ACWY-TT group), fever ≥ 38.0°C, > 38.5°C and related fever (36.4%, 17.7% and 30.5% vs. 
18.8%, 5.5% and 14.2%) and related irritability (27.3% vs. 17.9%).  
In study 080, pain at the injection site occurred in 53.9%, 44.0% and 53.4% of subjects in the Co-ad, 
ACWY-TT and Synflorix groups, respectively, after the first dose and in 47.3% and 40.0% in the 
ACWY-TT and Synflorix groups, respectively, after the second dose but rates of grade 3 pain were from 
2.4% to 8.8% across all vaccine groups and both doses. Redness and swelling rates were 28.2% to 
36.4% and 35.3% to 47.7% across vaccine groups and <5% of cases were grade 3. Irritability was 
reported with an incidence of 34.1% to 48.9% while rates for drowsiness and loss of appetite ranged 
from 20.0% to 39.8% and fever occurred in 11.0% to 19.8%. Less than 2% of subjects had grade 3 
solicited general symptoms. 
In study 037, there were no significant differences detected between the co-administration and either 
of the ACWY-TT or Twinrix groups. In study 035, co-administration did not increase the rates of local 
or systemic reactions. 
Discontinuation due to Adverse Events 
There were very few withdrawals from studies and most of these were not the result of AEs. Of note, 
the main reasons for withdrawal were withdrawal of consent and loss to follow-up. 
Nimenrix 
Page 72/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancies 
During the completed studies or during the follow-up period there were 23 pregnancies reported: 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  021  one  subject  was  exposed  to  ACWY-TT  during  pregnancy  that  resulted  in  a  normal 
vaginal delivery.  
In  study  035  two  subjects  became  pregnant  during  the  active  vaccination  stage  and  four  during 
the ESFU. These resulted in normal or caesarean deliveries. 
In study 037, one subject was reported pregnant ~ 25 weeks post-ACWY-TT and Twinrix but had 
an  elective  abortion  at  week  5.  One  subject  was  reported  to  be  pregnant  nine  months  after  the 
ACWY-TT dose but there is no information available on the outcome of the delivery/infant. 
In  study  017  three  subjects  became  pregnant  during  the  persistence  study  period  and  each 
resulted in healthy infants. 
In study 018 there were 11 pregnancies in 10 subjects. One had a spontaneous abortion at week 4, 
one  had  an  incomplete  abortion  at  week  11,  one  had  an  ectopic  diagnosed  at  week  8  and  the 
others either had healthy infants or the outcome is as yet unknown. 
Laboratory findings 
There were no data collected. 
Safety in special populations 
There are no other data in special populations. 
Immunological events  
There are few AEs reported under the specific term hypersensitivity and it is not clear if these reports 
were intended to convey a relationship to the vaccine or to other antigens. However, there were also 
reports of AEs that might represent allergic reactions and there has been no in-depth consideration of 
all potential cases of hypersensitivity.   
Additional analyses of safety across studies 
Additional analyses were performed to evaluate the solicited symptom rates according to pre-
vaccination anti-TT antibody concentrations (see the criteria applied in the analyses of immune 
responses according to anti-TT) in different age strata (12 to 23 months, 2-5 years, 6-10 years, 11-17 
years and ≥ 18 years). 
Across the age strata the rates of grade 3 solicited symptoms were low across the anti-TT 
concentration categories. In subjects aged < 11 years the anti-TT pre-vaccination status had no impact 
on rates of solicited symptoms excluding fever. Subjects older than 11 years with pre-vaccination anti-
TT ≥ 0.3 IU/ml had higher rates of injection site reactions although there was no increase in severity. 
Increases in general solicited symptoms in subjects older than 11 years were not observed with 
increasing pre-vaccination anti-TT concentrations. 
Nimenrix 
Page 73/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Solicited local and general symptoms in subjects 11 to 17 years of age 
according to pre-vaccination anti-TT antibody concentration (TVC, pooled 
analysis) 
ACWY‐TT
Mencevax
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
0.3 to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
s
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
<0.3 
IU/ml 
Pain
redness
swelling
Fatigue
gastrointestinal
Headaches
< 0.3IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 674; Mencevax n = 224 ; 0.3IU/ml to <1.0IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 188;  
Mencevax n = 70 ≥1.0IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 134; Mencevax n = 46 
Solicited local and general symptoms in subjects 18 years and above of age 
according to pre-vaccination anti-TT antibody concentration (TVC, pooled 
analysis) 
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
s
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
<0.3 
IU/ml 
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
ACWY‐TT
Mencevax
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
≥1.0 
IU/ml 
<0.3 
IU/ml 
0.3 
IU/ml 
to 
<1.0 
IU/ml
Pain
Redness
swellling
Fatigue
gastrointestinal
headaches
<0.3IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 818; Mencevax n = 247 ; 0.3IU/ml to <1.0IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 142;  
Mencevax n = 51 ≥1.0IU/ml: ACWY-TT n = 192; Mencevax n = 64 
A higher incidence of grade 3 swelling was observed after ACWY-TT in subjects aged 11-17 years with 
a pre-vaccination anti-TT concentration ≥ 1.0 IU/ml vs. those with < 0.3 IU/ml (4.5% and 0.1% 
respectively). These grade 3 injection site swellings were of short duration and almost all of them 
resolved within the 4-day post vaccination period.  
Nimenrix 
Page 74/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects with a higher pre-vaccination anti-TT concentration did not show an increased incidence of 
fever after ACWY-TT except in the 11-17 years of age stratum where a higher rate of fever was 
observed in those with ≥ 0.3 IU/ml (4.6% vs. 11.2%). The rate of grade 3 fever (> 39.5°C) did not 
increase with increasing pre-vaccination anti-TT. Very few subjects in any age category used anti-
pyretic medication prior to the development of an AE. A higher incidence of fever was observed in 
those who did use anti-pyretic medication regardless of the vaccine administered. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
ACWY-TT was associated with local and systemic reactogenicity rates that did not increase with age 
and a decreasing tendency was noted. The comparisons with other vaccines suggested greater local 
reactogenicity vs. Mencevax (in all age groups) and Meningitec but no important difference vs. 
Menjugate. Rates were also higher for those who received ACWY-TT after prior Mencevax. 
Rates for systemic symptoms were at least numerically higher for ACWY-TT vs. Meningitec and vs. 
Menjugate but for the most part there was little or no difference vs. Mencevax. The numbers with high 
fever were small but there was a higher rate of any and high fever rates in the ACWY-TT group and 
this was also observed in the comparisons vs. Mencevax except in adults. Rates for headache, fatigue 
and fever considered related to vaccination were higher in those who had prior exposure to Mencevax 
before ACWY-TT. It is pertinent to note that anti-pyretic agents were allowed and data on use were 
collected.  
Overall, it seems likely that ACWY-TT is more reactogenic than licensed MenCC vaccines and for some 
types of symptoms, more reactogenic than Mencevax. Nevertheless the data did not point to any 
safety concern.  
For unsolicited AEs there also appeared to be a trend to slightly higher overall rates for ACWY-TT vs. 
licensed MenCC vaccines and, in the youngest age group, vs. Mencevax. The unsolicited AEs were very 
scattered in nature and the applicant has already pointed out that differences in rates for AEs 
considered related to vaccine could have been affected by the open-label study designs. The SAEs did 
not show any important imbalances between treatment groups. 
There are few AEs reported under the specific term hypersensitivity and it is not clear if these reports 
were intended to convey a relationship to the vaccine or to other antigens. However, there were also 
reports of AEs that might represent allergic reactions.   
Co-administration with Priorix tetra appears to increase the rates for systemic symptoms, including 
fever. Overall it seemed that co-administration of ACWY-TT with MMRV is unlikely to be associated with 
a safety profile that is substantially different vs. MMRV alone. On that basis, it would also be 
reasonable to conclude that co-administration of ACWY-TT with MMR would be unlikely to be associated 
with a safety profile substantially different from that of MMR. The CHMP noted and concurred with 
these conclusions. 
With regard to study -040, although there were increases in reported rates of general solicited 
symptoms in the Co-ad group compared to ACWY-TT alone, there were no differences compared to 
Infanrix hexa alone and therefore there does not seem to be any reason to object to co-administration. 
In the study of co-administration with Synflorix it appeared that rates for solicited symptoms were 
driven by the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and were not significantly higher on co-administration. 
Co-administration with either Fluarix in adults or Twinrix at various ages does not seem to be 
accompanied by higher reactogenicity. 
Nimenrix 
Page 75/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Overall, ACWY-TT is more reactogenic than licensed MenCC vaccines for some types of symptoms. 
Nevertheless, the data did not point to any safety concern that might preclude approval. In all age 
groups the most frequently observed local adverse reactions after vaccination were pain (24.1% to 
39.9%), redness (14.3% to 33.0%) and swelling (11.2% to 17.9%). These adverse reactions are not 
considered problematic. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan  
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan 
 Safety concern  Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
Potential risks 
Guillain-Barré 
Syndrome  
Close monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
of GBS.  
Targeted follow-up questionnaire for all spontaneous 
reports of GBS. 
Reports of GBS will be discussed in the PSUR.  If cases 
of GBS are received, an observed versus expected 
analysis will be provided in PSUR. 
Purpura 
Close monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
of purpura.  
Targeted follow-up questionnaire for all spontaneous 
reports of purpura. 
Reports of purpura will be discussed in the PSUR. If 
cases of purpura are received, an observed versus 
expected analysis will be provided in PSUR. 
Vasculitis 
Monitor all worldwide spontaneous reports of vasculitis 
using routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports of vasculitis will be discussed in the PSUR. 
Acute 
disseminated 
encephalomyeliti
s (ADEM) 
Monitor all worldwide spontaneous reports of ADEM 
using routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports of ADEM will be discussed in the PSUR. 
Brachial neuritis  Monitor all worldwide spontaneous reports of brachial 
neuritis using routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports of brachial neuritis will be discussed in the 
PSUR. 
Nimenrix 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for GBS following MenACWY-TT administration. 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for purpura following MenACWY-TT 
administration. 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for vasculitis following MenACWY-TT 
administration. 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for ADEM following MenACWY-TT administration.
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for brachial neuritis following MenACWY-TT 
administration. 
Page 76/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.3 of the proposed EU SmPC states: 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any 
of the excipients…” is listed as a contraindication 
in Section 4.3 of the proposed EU SmPC. In 
addition, Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SmPC 
states: “Appropriate medical treatment and 
supervision should always be readily available in 
case of a rare anaphylactic event following the 
administration of the vaccine.”  
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time.  
When the specified criteria are met, the Company 
will evaluate working with individual countries with 
established infection control agencies to obtain 
serogroup distribution data.  
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SmPC states: “A 
protective immune response may not be elicited in 
all vaccinees.”   
When the specified criteria are met, the Company 
will evaluate working with individual countries with 
established infection control agencies to obtain 
data on meningococcal epidemiology.  
Anaphylaxis 
Monitor all worldwide spontaneous reports of 
anaphylaxis using routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports of anaphylaxis will be discussed in the PSUR. 
Change in 
meningococcal 
epidemiology/ser
ogroup 
replacement 
The Company will provide an annual review of the 
ECDC report and information on the distribution of 
doses of MenACWY-TT by country (the EU/EEA 
Member States included in the latest ECDC report) in 
the Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
The Company will evaluate working with individual 
countries with established infection control agencies to 
obtain serogroup distribution data when the following 
criteria are met:  
A country that has not previously implemented 
- 
routine vaccination with meningococcal serogroup 
ACWY vaccine and that is proactively willing to commit 
to vaccinating exclusively with MenACWY-TT as part of 
a routine immunization program. It should be noted that 
in countries with routine MenC programs in place it may 
not be possible to ascertain any contribution due to 
MenACWY-TT, and therefore presence of an existing 
vaccination programme against meningococcal 
serogroup C disease will be an important determinant of 
feasibility. 
- 
A country with an established, comprehensive, 
nationwide meningococcal disease surveillance system 
and the capability to report on serogroup distribution. 
A country with sufficient vaccination coverage 
- 
to enable a feasible assessment of the vaccine impact. 
- 
to collaborate with GSK. 
The infection control agency(ies) is (are) willing 
Lack of efficacy  Close monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
of lack of efficacy. 
 Targeted follow-up questionnaire for all spontaneous 
reports of lack of efficacy. 
Reports of lack of efficacy will be discussed in the 
PSUR. 
The Company will provide an annual review of the 
ECDC report and information on the distribution of 
doses of MenACWY-TT by country (the EU/EEA 
Member States included in the latest ECDC report) in 
the Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
The Company will evaluate working with individual 
countries with established infection control agencies to 
obtain serogroup distribution data when the following 
criteria are met:  
A country that has not previously implemented 
- 
routine vaccination with meningococcal serogroup 
ACWY vaccine and that is proactively willing to commit 
to vaccinating exclusively with MenACWY-TT as part of 
a routine immunization program. It should be noted that 
in countries with routine MenC programs in place it may 
not be possible to ascertain any contribution due to 
Nimenrix 
Page 77/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
MenACWY-TT, and therefore presence of an existing 
vaccination programme against meningococcal 
serogroup C disease will be an important determinant of 
feasibility. 
- 
A country with an established, comprehensive, 
nationwide meningococcal disease surveillance system 
and the capability to report on on meningococcal 
epidemiology. 
- 
A country with sufficient vaccination coverage 
to enable a feasible assessment of the vaccine impact. 
- 
to collaborate with GSK. 
The infection control agency(ies) is (are) willing 
Monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports of 
vaccine maladministration using routine 
pharmacovigilance.  
Reports of vaccine maladministration will be discussed 
in the PSUR. 
Monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports of 
involving the administration of MenACWY-TT to 
individuals with thrombocytopenia or any coagulation 
disorder with a risk of haemorrhage using routine 
pharmacovigilance.  
Reports involving the administration of MenACWY-TT to 
individuals with thrombocytopenia or any coagulation 
disorder with a risk of haemorrhage will be discussed in 
the PSUR. 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SmPC states: 
“Nimenrix should under no circumstances be 
administered intravascularly, intradermally or 
subcutaneously.   
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SmPC states: 
“Nimenrix should be given with caution to 
individuals with thrombocytopenia or any 
coagulation disorder since bleeding may occur 
following an intramuscular administration to these 
subjects.”   
Monitor all worldwide spontaneous reports of extensive 
limb swelling/severe injection site reactions using 
routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports of extensive limb swelling/severe injection site 
reaction will be discussed in the PSUR. 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for extensive limb swelling/severe injection site 
reactions following MenACWY-TT administration. 
Administration of 
MenACWY-TT 
vaccine via the 
intravascular, 
intradermal or 
subcutaneous 
route 
Administration of 
MenACWY-TT 
vaccine to 
patients with 
thrombocytopeni
a or any 
coagulation 
disorder with a 
risk of 
haemorrhage 
Extensive limb 
swelling/severe 
injection site 
reactions 
Missing information 
Use in 
immunocompro
mised and 
immunodeficien
t (including 
asplenic) 
patients  
Study MenACY-TT084 
Monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
involving immunocompromised patients using routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
Reports involving immunocompromised patients will be 
discussed in the PSUR. 
Use in patients 
with chronic 
diseases 
Monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
involving use in patients with chronic diseases using 
routine pharmacovigilance. 
Reports involving use in patients with chronic diseases 
will be discussed in the PSUR. 
Section 4.4 of the proposed EU SmPC states: “It 
may be expected that in patients receiving 
immunosuppressive treatment or patients with 
immunodeficiency, an adequate immune response 
may not be elicited” and “Safety and 
immunogenicity have not been assessed in 
patients with increased susceptibility to 
meningococcal infection due to conditions such as 
terminal complement deficiencies and anatomic or 
functional asplenia. In these individuals, an 
adequate immune response may not be elicited.” 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this 
time. The need for risk minimisation activities will 
be re-evaluated should a safety signal be detected 
for use in patients with chronic diseases. 
Nimenrix 
Page 78/84
 
 
 
 
 
Use during 
pregnancy and 
lactation 
Monitoring of all worldwide spontaneous reports 
involving pregnant or lactating females using routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
Section 4.6 of the proposed EU SmPC contains 
the following statements regarding pregnancy and 
lactation:  
Pregnancy 
There is limited experience with use of Nimenrix in 
pregnant women. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect 
harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryo/foetal development, parturition or post-
natal development. 
Nimenrix should be used during pregnancy only 
when clearly needed, and the possible 
advantages outweigh the potential risks for the 
foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether Nimenrix is excreted in 
human milk. 
Nimenrix should only be used during breast-
feeding when the possible advantages outweigh 
the potential risks. 
None proposed as the described studies will 
appropriately manage the risk at this stage. 
Reports involving pregnant or lactating females will be 
discussed in the PSUR. 
Long term 
persistence of 
the vaccine 
response and 
need for a 
booster dose 
No specific risk minimisation is needed at this time.  The 
Company intends to evaluate long term antibody 
persistence and the need for a booster dose of 
MenACWY-TT. Ongoing and planned persistence 
studies include MenACWY-TT-016/017/018/019/020 
(EXT:015Y1/Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5); MenACWY-TT-099 
(EXT:015Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10); MenACWY-TT-
028/29/030/031/032 (EXT:027 Y1/Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5); 
MenACWY-TT-100 (EXT:027Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10); 
MenACWY-TT-059 (EXT:052 Y1/Y3/Y5); MenACWY-
TT-062(EXT:055 Y1/Y3/Y5); MenACWY-TT-043 
(EXT:036 Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5); MenACWY-TT-101 
(EXT:036Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10); MenACWY-TT-048 
(EXT:039 Y2,Y3,Y4,Y5); MenACWY-TT-102 (EXT 
:039Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10); MenACWY-TT-088 (EXT: 081 
Y2, Y3, Y4, Y5); and MenACWY-TT-084. In addtion, 
GSK will develop a study to evaluate immediate and 
longer term antibody titres elicited by one or two doses 
of Nimenrix administered in children aged 12-23 months 
according to a CHMP-agreed protocol. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
Long term antibody persistence and the need for a booster dose studies: 
MenACWY-TT-016/017/018/019/020 (EXT:015Y1/Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5) 
MenACWY-TT-099 (EXT:015Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10) 
MenACWY-TT-028/29/030/031/032 (EXT:027 Y1/Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5) 
MenACWY-TT-100 (EXT:027Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10) 
MenACWY-TT-059 (EXT:052 Y1/Y3/Y5) 
MenACWY-TT-062(EXT:055 Y1/Y3/Y5) 
Nimenrix 
Page 79/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
MenACWY-TT-043 (EXT:036 Y2/Y3/Y4/Y5) 
MenACWY-TT-101 (EXT:036Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10) 
MenACWY-TT-048 (EXT:039 Y2,Y3,Y4,Y5) 
MenACWY-TT-102 (EXT :039Y6/Y7/Y8/Y9/Y10) 
MenACWY-TT-088 (EXT: 081 Y2, Y3, Y4, Y5) 
Study to evaluate the immunogenicity of 1 and 2 doses of Nimenrix in 
subjects at risk (asplenic children or children having complement 
deficiency): MenACWY-TT-084 
Study to evaluate immediate and longer term antibody titres elicited by 
Final CSR by: June 
one or two doses of Nimenrix administered in children aged 12-23 months 
2015 
according to a CHMP-agreed protocol. 
Study to evaluate antibody persistence following administration of one 
dose of Nimenrix at age 12 months or two doses at age 9 and 12 months 
followed by evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose 
Final CSR December 
2014 
administered at 5 years post-vaccination. 
  No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.8.  Significance of paediatric studies 
The CHMP is of the opinion that Men ACWY-TT-036, -038, -039 and -081 studies, which are contained 
in the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan, P/0278/2011 have been completed after 26 January 2007, 
are considered as significant. 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Nimenrix, consists of four polysaccharides conjugated to a tetanus toxoid protein carrier which belongs 
to the pharmacotherapeutic groups of meningococcal, tetravalent conjugated purified polysaccharides 
antigens. 
Although its manufacturing process is complex, it is based on the experience achieved during the 
development of similar conjugate meningococcal vaccines which are currently on the market. 
The non-conjugated meningococcal vaccines have well-known limitations including poor 
immunogenicity in young children, the inability to elicit immune memory against the capsule of the 
Nimenrix 
Page 80/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pathogen and hyporesponsiveness following repeated doses of vaccine when sustained protection is 
needed. Conjugate vaccines can overcome these limitations and effective conjugate vaccines have 
been successful in preventing meningitis and other invasive bacterial infections. 
Based on measurement of functional antibody (using rSBA or hSBA assays) Nimenrix (ACWY-TT) has 
been shown to be at least as immunogenic as unconjugated ACWY vaccine from the age of 2 years 
upwards. In the majority of comparisons made there are at least numerical advantages for using the 
conjugate in terms of immediate as well as longer term antibody levels. The greatest advantage for the 
conjugate is at the lowest end of the age range.  
Data in toddlers aged 12-23 months and children up to 10 years have demonstrated that Nimenrix 
elicits robust functional antibody responses and that these are at least comparable to those observed 
with licensed MenCC vaccines conjugated to CRM197. The data on challenge with low-dose 
unconjugated polysaccharide support the ability of Nimenrix to induce a T-cell-dependent primary 
immune response in the second year of life. Hence, while there are currently no data available on 
boosting with the conjugate, these data predict that an anamnestic response will be elicited. 
Nimenrix also elicits robust immune responses in subjects who received unconjugated ACWY vaccine in 
the past. While prior administration of an unconjugated vaccine and high pre-vaccination anti-TT 
concentrations had some blunting effect the functional antibody titres achieved were acceptable. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
There is a reasonably sound basis for concluding that functional antibody, whether measured using 
rSBA or hSBA, is a biomarker for protective efficacy against the meningococcal groups that have 
antigenic polysaccharide capsules. The data obtained from wide experience with MenCC vaccines point 
to the need to maintain a minimum titre of circulating bactericidal activity for continued protection 
against rapidly invasive organisms. It remains unclear whether the same minimum titres would 
necessarily apply across all four groups A, C, W-135 and Y. Hence, while the applicant has already 
provided some antibody persistence data and more will be forthcoming, it is not possible to predict 
how long protective antibody levels will persist and whether booster doses may be needed in due 
course.  
Although the overall picture shows that a conjugated vaccine is immunogenic and primes the immune 
system even in toddlers aged 12-15 months, further confirmation of vaccine effect in the intermediate 
and longer term is required in toddlers. Therefore, two studies to evaluate short and longer term 
antibody titres elicited following one or two doses of Nimenrix in children will be conducted (as detailed 
in the RMP). 
In addition, there could be a particular concern regarding persistence of hSBA titres against MenA and 
relatively low immediate responses to MenW and MenY in younger age groups. Nevertheless, these 
uncertainties do not preclude approval. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Overall, it appears that Nimenrix is more reactogenic than licensed MenCC vaccines and, for some 
types of symptoms, is also more reactogenic than Mencevax. The rates of some AEs were higher in 
those who had previously received ACWY vaccine but there was no or limited influence of pre-
vaccination anti-TT concentrations on AE rates. 
Nimenrix 
Page 81/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There are currently no data on the safety of booster doses but such data will be generated. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Conjugate vaccines can overcome limitations such as the inability to elicit immune memory against the 
capsule of the pathogen and hyporesponsiveness following repeated doses of vaccine when sustained 
protection is needed. 
Effective conjugate vaccines have been successful in preventing meningitis and other invasive bacterial 
infections: the chemical conjugation of the polysaccharide to a protein carrier converts the T-cell 
independent response into a T-cell dependent anti-polysaccharide antibody response. The T-cell 
dependent response elicited by conjugate vaccines can occur in children less than 2 years of age and 
results in a strong anamnestic (memory). 
All conjugate vaccines designed to protect against invasive diseases caused by encapsulated bacteria 
such as Haemophilus influenza type b, Streptococcus pneumonia and group C Neisseria meningitidis 
have successfully addressed the limitations of the plain capsular polysaccharide-based vaccines. The 
data demonstrate that the present vaccine has the typical features of the immune responses induced 
by conjugate vaccines.  The efficacy of Nimenrix was inferred by demonstrating non-inferiority of 
bactericidal antibody responses to the licensed vaccines in subjects as of 12 months of age. The 
vaccine response was assessed using a standard and validated serum bactericidal assay using rabbit 
complement. Confirmation of the vaccine response was obtained with further rSBA testing at HPA and 
hSBA data.  The safety data collected from over 7000 subjects during the clinical programme provide 
evidence that the candidate MenACWY-TT vaccine is well tolerated and can be safely coadministered 
with vaccines routinely used in the different age groups in which the indication is sought. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Nimenrix “Nimenrix is indicated for active immunization of individuals 
from the age of 12 months and above against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by Neisseria 
meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y” is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Official batch release  
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be undertaken by a 
state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Nimenrix 
Page 82/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 1 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
 
at the request of the EMA 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
Due date 
Study to evaluate immediate and longer term antibody titres elicited by 
Final CSR by: June 
one or two doses of Nimenrix administered in children aged 12-23 months 
2015 
according to a CHMP-agreed protocol. 
Study to evaluate antibody persistence following administration of one 
dose of Nimenrix at age 12 months or two doses at age 9 and 12 months 
followed by evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose 
Final CSR December 
2014 
administered at 5 years post-vaccination. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality, non-clinical and clinical properties of the active 
substance, the CHMP considers that Meningococcal group A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine is to be 
qualified as a new active substance. 
Nimenrix 
Page 83/84
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/0278/2011 and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
In accordance with Article 45(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, significant studies in the agreed 
paediatric investigation plan P/0278/2011 have been completed after the entry into force of that 
Regulation. 
Nimenrix 
Page 84/84
 
 
 
 
 
