ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nityr 10 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 10 mg nitisinone. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 102.99 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet. 
White to beige, round (7 mm), flat tablet, which may display light yellow to brown speckles, marked 
“10” on one side and “L” on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) 
Nityr is indicated for the treatment  of adult and paediatric patients with confirmed diagnosis of 
hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and 
phenylalanine.  
Alkaptonuria (AKU)  
Nityr is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with alkaptonuria (AKU). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
HT-1 
Nitisinone treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of 
HT-1 patients. 
Treatment of all genotypes of the disease should be initiated as early as possible to increase overall 
survival and avoid complications such as liver failure, liver cancer and renal disease. Adjunct to the 
nitisinone treatment, a diet deficient in phenylalanine and tyrosine is required and should be followed 
by monitoring of plasma amino acids (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Starting dose HT-1  
The recommended initial daily dose in the paediatric and adult population is 1 mg/kg body weight 
administered orally. The dose of nitisinone should be adjusted individually. It is recommended to 
administer the dose once daily. However, due to the limited data in patients with body weight < 20 kg, 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it is recommended to divide the total daily dose into two daily administrations in this patient 
population.  
Dose adjustment HT-1 
During regular monitoring, it is appropriate to follow urine succinylacetone, liver function test values 
and alpha-fetoprotein levels (see section 4.4). If urine succinylacetone is still detectable one month 
after the start of nitisinone treatment, the nitisinone dose should be increased to 1.5 mg/kg body 
weight/day. A dose of 2 mg/kg body weight/day may be needed based on the evaluation of all 
biochemical parameters. This dose should be considered as a maximal dose for all patients.  
If the biochemical response is satisfactory, the dose should be adjusted only according to body weight 
gain. 
However, in addition to the tests above, during the initiation of therapy, switch from twice daily to 
once daily dosing or if there is a deterioration, it may be necessary to follow more closely all available 
biochemical parameters (i.e. plasma succinylacetone, urine 5-aminolevulinate (ALA) and erythrocyte 
porphobilinogen (PBG)-synthase activity). 
AKU  
Nitisinone treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of 
AKU patients.  
The recommended dose in the adult AKU population is 10 mg once daily. 
Special populations 
There are no specific dose recommendations for elderly or patients that have renal or hepatic 
impairment. 
Paediatric population 
HT-1: The dose recommendation in mg/kg body weight is the same in children and adults.  
However, due to the limited data in patients with body weight < 20 kg, it is recommended to divide the 
total daily dose into two daily administrations in this patient population.  
AKU: The safety and efficacy of Nityr in children aged 0 to 18 years with AKU have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
The tablets may be taken with or without food. Tablets are not suitable for breaking to make up 
additional strengths. 
For patients who require additional strengths (i.e. between multiples of 10 mg or lower than 10 mg) 
other medicinal products with lower strengths are available. 
For paediatric patients who have difficulties swallowing tablets, other pharmaceutical forms are 
available.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Mothers receiving nitisinone must not breast-feed  (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring visits should be performed every 6 months; shorter intervals between visits are 
recommended in case of adverse events. 
Monitoring of plasma tyrosine levels 
It is recommended that a slit-lamp examination of the eyes is performed before initiation of nitisinone 
treatment and thereafter regularly, at least once a year. A patient displaying visual disorders during 
treatment with nitisinone should without delay be examined by an ophthalmologist.  
HT-1: It should be established that the patient is adhering to his/her dietary regimen and the plasma 
tyrosine concentration should be measured. A more restricted tyrosine and phenylalanine diet should 
be implemented in case the plasma tyrosine level is above 500 micromol/l. It is not recommended to 
lower the plasma tyrosine concentration by reduction or discontinuation of nitisinone, since the 
metabolic defect may result in deterioration of the patient’s clinical condition. 
AKU: In patients who develop keratopathies, plasma tyrosine levels should be monitored. A diet 
restricted in tyrosine and phenylalanine should be implemented to keep the plasma tyrosine level 
below 500 micromol/l. In addition, nitisinone should be temporarily discontinued and may be 
reintroduced when the symptoms have been resolved. 
Liver monitoring 
HT-1: The liver function should be monitored regularly by liver function tests and liver imaging. It is 
recommended to also monitor serum alpha-fetoprotein concentrations. Increase in serum 
alpha-fetoprotein concentration may be a sign of inadequate treatment. Patients with increasing 
alpha-fetoprotein or signs of nodules in the liver should always be evaluated for hepatic malignancy. 
Platelet and white blood cell (WBC) monitoring 
It is recommended that platelet and WBC counts are monitored regularly for both HT-1 and AKU, as a 
few cases of reversible thrombocytopenia and leucopenia were observed during clinical evaluation of 
HT-1. 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
Concomitant use with other medicinal products 
Nitisinone is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor. Nitisinone treatment may therefore result in increased 
plasma concentrations of co-administered medicinal products metabolized primarily via CYP2C9. 
Nitisinone treated patients who are concomitantly treated with medicinal products with a narrow 
therapeutic window metabolized through CYP2C9, such as warfarin and phenytoin, should be 
carefully monitored. Dose-adjustment of these co-administered medicinal products may be needed 
(see section 4.5). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Nitisinone is metabolised in vitro by CYP3A4 and dose-adjustment may therefore be needed when 
nitisinone is co-administered with inhibitors or inducers of this enzyme. 
Based on data from a clinical interaction study with 80 mg nitisinone at steady-state, nitisinone is a 
moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 (2.3-fold increase in tolbutamide AUC), therefore nitisinone treatment 
may result in increased plasma concentrations of co-administered medicinal products metabolized 
primarily via CYP2C9 (see section 4.4). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitisinone is a weak inducer of CYP2E1 (30 % decrease in chlorzoxazone AUC) and a weak inhibitor 
of OAT1 and OAT3 (1.7-fold increase in AUC of furosemide), whereas nitisinone did not inhibit 
CYP2D6 (see section 5.2). 
A food effect study has been conducted with Nityr. The study demonstrated that Nityr can be 
administered with or without food without affecting its bioavailability.  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of nitisinone in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Nityr should 
not be used during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment with 
nitisinone. Nitisinone crosses the human placenta. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether nitisinone is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies have shown 
adverse postnatal effects via exposure of nitisinone in milk. Therefore, mothers receiving nitisinone 
must not breast-feed, since a risk to the suckling child cannot be excluded (see sections 4.3 and 5.3). 
Fertility 
There are no data on nitisinone affecting fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nityr has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions involving the 
eyes (see section 4.8) can affect the vision. If the vision is affected the patient should not drive or use 
machines until the event has subsided. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
By its mode of action, nitisinone increases tyrosine levels in all nitisinone treated patients. Eye-related 
adverse reactions, such as conjunctivitis, corneal opacity, keratitis, photophobia, and eye pain, related 
to elevated tyrosine levels are therefore common in both HT-1 and AKU patients. In the HT-1 
population other common adverse reactions include thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, and 
granulocytopenia. Exfoliative dermatitis may occur uncommonly. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions listed below by MedDRA system organ class and absolute frequency, are based 
on data from clinical studies in patients with HT-1 and AKU and post-marketing use in HT-1. 
Frequency is defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary of adverse reactions observed during clinical trials 
MedDRA system 
organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Frequency in HT-1 
Frequency in 
AKU1 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
Bronchitis, pneumonia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common2 
Very common2 
Thrombocytopenia, 
leucopenia, 
granulocytopenia 
Leukocytosis 
Conjunctivitis, corneal 
opacity, keratitis, 
photophobia 
Keratopathy 
Eye pain 
Blepharitis 
Exfoliative dermatitis, 
erythematous rash  
Pruritus, rash 
Elevated tyrosine levels 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Investigations 
1The frequency is based on one clinical study in AKU. 
2Elevated tyrosine levels are associated with eye-related adverse reaction. Patients in the AKU study 
did not have a diet restricted in tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Nitisinone treatment leads to elevated tyrosine levels. Elevated levels of tyrosine have been associated 
with eye-related adverse reactions, such as e.g. corneal opacities and hyperkeratotic lesions in HT-1 
and AKU patients. Restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine in the diet should limit the toxicity 
associated with this type of tyrosinemia by lowering tyrosine levels (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies of HT-1, granulocytopenia was only uncommonly severe (< 0.5 x 109 /L) and not 
associated with infections. Adverse reactions affecting the MedDRA system organ class ‘Blood and 
lymphatic system disorders’ subsided during continued nitisinone treatment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety profile in HT-1 is mainly based on the paediatric population since nitisinone treatment 
should be started as soon as the diagnosis of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) has been 
established. From clinical study and post marketing data there are no indications that the safety profile 
is different in different subsets of the paediatric population or different from the safety profile in adult 
patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Accidental ingestion of nitisinone by individuals eating normal diets not restricted in tyrosine and 
phenylalanine will result in elevated tyrosine levels. Elevated tyrosine levels have been associated 
with toxicity to eyes, skin, and the nervous system. Restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine in the 
diet should limit toxicity associated with this type of tyrosinemia. No information about specific 
treatment of overdose is available. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, Various alimentary tract 
and metabolism products, ATC code: A16AX04. 
Mechanism of action 
Nitisinone is a competitive inhibitor of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase, the second step in the 
tyrosine metabolism. By inhibiting the normal catabolism of tyrosine in patients with HT-1 and AKU, 
nitisinone prevents the accumulation of harmful metabolites downstream of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate 
dioxygenase.  
The biochemical defect in HT-1 is a deficiency of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase, which is the final 
enzyme of the tyrosine catabolic pathway. Nitisinone prevents the accumulation of the toxic 
intermediates maleylacetoacetate and fumarylacetoacetate. These intermediates are otherwise 
converted to the toxic metabolites succinylacetone and succinylacetoacetate. Succinylacetone inhibits 
the porphyrin synthesis pathway leading to the accumulation of 5-aminolevulinate. 
The biochemical defect in AKU is a deficiency of homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase, the third enzyme of 
the tyrosine catabolic pathway. Nitisinone prevents the accumulation of the harmful metabolite 
homogentisic acid (HGA), which otherwise leads to ochronosis of joints and cartilage and thereby the 
development of the clinical features of the disease. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients with HT-1, nitisinone treatment leads to normalised porphyrin metabolism with normal 
erythrocyte porphobilinogen synthase activity and urine 5-aminolevulinate, decreased urinary 
excretion of succinylacetone, increased plasma tyrosine concentration and increased urinary excretion 
of phenolic acids. Available data from a clinical study indicates that in more than 90 % of the patients 
urine succinylacetone was normalised during the first week of treatment. Succinylacetone should not 
be detectable in urine or plasma when the nitisinone dose is properly adjusted. 
In patients with AKU, nitisinone treatment reduces the accumulation of HGA. Available data from a 
clinical study shows a 99.7 % reduction of urinary HGA, and a 98.8 % reduction of serum HGA, 
following nitisinone treatment compared to untreated control patients after 12 months of treatment. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in HT-1 
The clinical study was open-labelled and uncontrolled. The dosing frequency in the study was twice 
daily. Survival probabilities after 2, 4 and 6 years of treatment with nitisinone are summarised in the 
table below. 
Table 2. Probability of survival after treatment with nitisinone 
NTBC study (N = 250) 
Age at start of treatment 
≤ 2 months 
≤ 6 months 
> 6 months 
Overall 
2 years 
93 % 
93 % 
96 % 
94 % 
4 years 
93 % 
93 % 
95 % 
94 % 
6 years 
93 % 
93 % 
95 % 
94 % 
Data from a study used as a historical control (van Spronsen et al., 1994) showed the following 
survival probability. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Probability of survival based on historical control 
Age at onset of 
symptoms 
< 2 months 
> 2-6 months 
> 6 months 
1 year 
2 years 
38 % 
74 % 
96 % 
29 % 
74 % 
96 % 
Treatment with nitisinone was also found to result in reduced risk for the development of 
hepatocellular carcinoma compared to historical data on treatment with dietary restriction alone. It was 
found that the early initiation of treatment resulted in a further reduced risk for the development of 
hepatocellular carcinoma. 
The 2-, 4-, and 6-year probability of no occurrence of HCC during nitisinone treatment for patients 
aged 24 months or younger at the start of treatment and for those older than 24 months at the start of 
treatment is shown in the following table: 
Table 4. Probability of HCC not developing during nitisinone treatment 
NTBC study (N=250) 
All patients 
Start age ≤ 24 months 
Start age > 24 months 
Number of patients at 
Start 
2 years  4 years 
6 years 
250 
155 
193 
114 
57 
41 
86 
61 
25 
15 
8 
8 
Probability of no HCC (95 % 
confidence interval) at 
4 years 
94 %   
(90; 98) 
99 %   
(97; 100) 
82 %   
(70; 95) 
6 years 
91 %   
(81; 100) 
99 %   
(94; 100) 
75 %   
(56; 95) 
2 years 
98 %   
(95; 100) 
99 %   
(98; 100) 
92 %   
(84; 100) 
In an international survey of patients with HT-1 on treatment with dietary restriction alone, it was 
found that HCC had been diagnosed in 18 % of all patients aged 2 years and above. 
A study to evaluate the PK, efficacy and safety of once daily dosing compared to twice daily dosing 
was performed in 19 patients with HT-1. There were no clinically important differences in AEs or 
other safety assessments between once and twice daily dosing. No patient had detectable 
succinylacetone (SA) levels at the end of the once-daily treatment period. The study indicates that 
once daily administration is safe and efficacious across all ages of patients. Data is, however, limited 
in patients with body weight < 20 kg. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in AKU  
The efficacy and safety of 10 mg once daily nitisinone in the treatment of adult patients with AKU 
have been demonstrated in a randomized, evaluator-blinded, no-treatment controlled, parallel-group 
48-months study in 138 patients (69 treated with nitisinone). The primary endpoint was the effect on 
urinary HGA levels; a 99.7 % reduction following nitisinone treatment compared to untreated control 
patients was seen after 12 months. Treatment with nitisinone was shown to have a statistically 
significant positive effect on cAKUSSI, eye pigmentation, ear pigmentation, osteopenia of the hip,  
and number of spinal regions with pain compared to the untreated control. cAKUSSI is a composite 
score including eye and ear pigmentation, kidney and prostate stones, aortic stenosis, osteopenia, bone 
fractures, tendon/ligament/muscle ruptures, kyphosis, scoliosis, joint replacements, and other 
manifestations of AKU. Thus, the lowered HGA levels in nitisinone-treated patients resulted in a 
reduction of the ochronotic process and reduced clinical manifestations, supporting a decreased 
disease progression. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular events, such as keratopathy and eye pain, infections, headache and weight gain were  reported 
with a higher incidence in nitisinone-treated than in untreated patients. Keratopathy led to temporary 
or permanent treatment discontinuation in 14 % of nitisinone-treated patients but was reversible upon 
withdrawal of nitisinone. 
No data is available for patients > 70 years. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Formal absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination studies have not been performed with 
nitisinone. In 23 healthy volunteers, after administration of a single dose of Nityr tablets (10 mg) the 
terminal half-life (median) of nitisinone in plasma was 59 hours (ranging from 41 to 74 hours).   
A population pharmacokinetic analysis has been conducted on a group of 207 HT-1 patients. The 
clearance and half-life were determined to be 0.0956 l/kg body weight/day and 52.1 hours 
respectively. 
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes and cDNA-expressed P450 enzymes have shown 
limited CYP3A4-mediated metabolism. 
Based on data from a clinical interaction study with 80 mg nitisinone at steady-state, nitisinone caused 
a 2.3-fold increase in AUC∞ of the CYP2C9 substrate tolbutamide, which is indicative of a moderate 
inhibition of CYP2C9. Nitisinone caused an approximate 30 % decrease in chlorzoxazone AUC∞, 
indicative of a weak induction of CYP2E1. Nitisinone does not inhibit CYP2D6 since metoprolol 
AUC∞ was not affected by the administration of nitisinone. Furosemide AUC∞ was increased 1.7-fold, 
indicating a weak inhibition of OAT1/OAT3 (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Based on in vitro studies, nitisinone is not expected to inhibit CYP1A2, 2C19 or 3A4-mediated 
metabolism or to induce CYP1A2, 2B6 or 3A4/5. Nitisinone is not expected to inhibit P-gp, BCRP or 
OCT2-mediated transport. Nitisinone plasma concentration reached in clinical setting is not expected 
to inhibit OATP1B1, OATP1B3 mediated transport. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Nitisinone has shown embryo-foetal toxicity in the mouse and rabbit at clinically relevant dose levels. 
In the rabbit, nitisinone induced a dose-related increase in malformations (umbilical hernia and 
gastroschisis) from a dose level 2.5-fold higher than the maximum recommended human dose 
(2 mg/kg/day). 
A pre- and postnatal development study in the mouse showed statistically significantly reduced pup 
survival and pup growth during the weaning period at dose levels 125- and 25-fold higher, 
respectively, than the maximum recommended human dose, with a trend toward a negative effect on 
pup survival starting from the dose of 5 mg/kg/day. In rats, exposure via milk resulted in reduced 
mean pup weight and corneal lesions. 
No mutagenic but a weak clastogenic activity was observed in in vitro studies. There was no evidence 
of in vivo genotoxicity (mouse micronucleus assay and mouse liver unscheduled DNA synthesis 
assay). Nitisinone did not show carcinogenic potential in a 26-week carcinogenicity study in 
transgenic mice (TgrasH2). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Glycerol dibehenate 
Lactose monohydrate  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years.   
During the shelf life, the patient may store the bottle after first opening for a period of 2 months, after 
which the medicinal product must be discarded. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
HDPE 75 mL square bottle with a tamper-evident child-resistant closure of polypropylene (PP). Each 
bottle contains 60 tablets. Each carton contains 1 bottle. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Limited 
70 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay  
Dublin 2 
D02 R296, Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1290/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 July 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 04 May 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block-7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath,  
K32 YD60, Ireland 
Sciensus International B.V. 
Bijsterhuizen 3142  
6604 LV Wijchen 
Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nityr 10 mg tablets 
nitisinone 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 10 mg nitisinone. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose, see leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Tablet 
60 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from light. 
Shelf life after first opening: 2 months 
Open date:            
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Limited 
70 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay  
Dublin 2 
D02 R296, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1290/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nityr 10 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nityr 10 mg tablets 
nitisinone 
Oral use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
60 tablets 
6. 
OTHER 
Contains lactose. 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from light. 
Shelf life after first opening: 2 months 
Open date:            
Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Limited 
70 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay  
Dublin 2 
D02 R296, Ireland 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Nityr 10 mg tablets 
nitisinone 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Nityr is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Nityr  
3.  How to take Nityr 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Nityr 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
1.  What Nityr is and what it is used for 
Nityr contains the active substance nitisinone.  
Nityr is used to treat: 
-  A rare disease called hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 in adults, adolescents and children.  
-  A rare disease called alkaptonuria (AKU) in adults. 
In these diseases your body is unable to completely break down the amino acid tyrosine (amino acids 
are building blocks of our proteins), forming harmful substances. These substances are accumulated in 
your body. Nityr blocks the breakdown of tyrosine and the harmful substances are not formed.  
For the treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1, you must follow a special diet while you are 
taking this medicine, because tyrosine will remain in your body. This special diet is based on low 
tyrosine and phenylalanine (another amino acid) content.  
For the treatment of AKU, your doctor may advise you to follow a special diet. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Nityr 
Do not take Nityr 
- 
if you are allergic to nitisinone or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
Do not breast-feed while taking this medicine, see section “Pregnancy and breast-feeding”. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Nityr.  
-  Your eyes will be checked by an ophthalmologist before and regularly during nitisinone treatment. 
If you get red eyes or any other signs of effects on the eyes, contact your doctor immediately for 
an eye examination. Eye problems could be a sign of inadequate dietary control (see section 4).  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the treatment, blood samples will be drawn in order for your doctor to check whether the 
treatment is adequate and to make sure that there are no possible side effects causing blood disorders.  
If you receive Nityr for treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1, your liver will be checked at 
regular intervals because the disease affects the liver. 
Follow-up by your doctor should be performed every 6 months. If you experience any side effects, 
shorter intervals are recommended.  
Other medicines and Nityr  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Nityr may interfere with the effect of other medicines, such as: 
- 
- 
Medicines for epilepsy (such as phenytoin) 
Medicines against blood clotting (such as warfarin)  
Nityr with food  
Nityr can be taken with or without food throughout your course of treatment.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
The safety of this medicine has not been studied in pregnant and breast-feeding women.  
Please contact your doctor if you plan to become pregnant. If you become pregnant you should contact 
your doctor immediately.  
Do not breast-feed while taking this medicine, see section “Do not take Nityr”.  
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, if you 
experience side effects affecting your vision you should not drive or use machines until your vision is 
back to normal (see section 4 “Possible side effects”).  
Nityr contains lactose If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some 
sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Nityr 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
For hereditary tyrosinemia type 1, treatment with this medicine should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the treatment of the disease .  
For hereditary tyrosinemia type 1, the recommended total daily dose is 1 mg/kg body weight 
administered orally. Your doctor will adjust the dose individually.  
It is recommended to administer the dose once daily. However, due to the limited data in patients with 
body weight < 20 kg, it is recommended to divide the total daily dose into two daily administrations in 
this patient population. 
For AKU, the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily. 
Patients who have problems swallowing Nityr tablets whole, are recommended to take alternative 
nitisinone formulations.   
If you take more Nityr than you should  
If you have taken more of this medicine than you should, contact your doctor or pharmacist as soon as 
possible.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Nityr 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. If you forget to take a dose, contact your 
doctor or pharmacist.  
If you stop taking Nityr  
If you have the impression that the medicine is not working properly, talk to your doctor. Do not 
change the dose or stop the treatment without talking to your doctor.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you notice any side effects relating to the eyes, talk to your doctor immediately to have an eye 
examination. Treatment with nitisinone leads to higher levels of tyrosine in the blood which can cause 
eye related symptoms. In patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1, commonly reported eye related 
side effects (may affect more than 1 in 100 people) caused by higher tyrosine levels are inflammation 
in the eye (conjunctivitis), opacity and inflammation in the cornea (keratitis), sensitivity to light 
(photophobia) and eye pain. Inflammation of the eyelid (blepharitis) is an uncommon side effect (may 
affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
In AKU patients, eye irritation (keratopathy) and eye pain are very commonly reported side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people).  
Other side effects reported in patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 are listed below: 
Other common side effects  
-  Reduced number of platelets (thrombocytopenia) and white blood cells (leukopenia), shortage of 
certain white blood cells (granulocytopenia).  
Other uncommon side effects  
- 
- 
increased number of white blood cells (leucocytosis),  
itching (pruritus), skin inflammation (exfoliative dermatitis), rash.  
Other side effects reported in patients with AKU are listed below: 
Other common side effects 
bronchitis 
- 
pneumonia 
- 
itching (pruritus), rash 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Nityr 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and bottle label after  EXP.  
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.  
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from light.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once the bottle is opened, the medicine can be stored for a period of 2 months, after which it must be 
discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nityr contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is nitisinone. Each tablet contains 10 mg nitisinone.  
The other ingredients are glycerol dibehenate and lactose monohydrate (see section 2 under 
‘Nityr contains lactose’). 
What Nityr looks like and contents of the pack  
Nityr are white to beige, round, flat tablets, which may display light yellow to brown speckles, marked 
with “L” on one side and “10” on the other side.  
Nityr is available in a bottle containing 60 tablets.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Limited 
70 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay  
Dublin 2, D02 R296 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Limited 
Block-7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen, Co. Meath,  
K32 YD60, Ireland 
Sciensus International B.V. 
Bijsterhuizen 3142  
6604 LV Wijchen 
Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
