Risk Management Plan 
NITYR (Nitisinone) 
 Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Ltd 
Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for NITYR (Nitisinone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Nityr. The RMP details important risks of Nityr, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Nityr's risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Nityr's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to 
healthcare professionals and patients on how Nityr should be used.  
This summary of the  RMP for  Nityr should  be read in the context  of  all this information  including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Nityr's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Nityr is authorised for treatment of adult and paediatric patients with confirmed diagnosis of hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
Nityr is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with alkaptonuria (AKU). 
It contains nitisinone as the active substance and it is administered orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Nityr 
's  benefits can  be  found  in 
its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine's 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/nityr 
Nityr 
 EPAR, including in 
's 
webpage 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to
minimise or further characterise the risks
Important  risks  of  Nityr  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for 
learning more about Nityr's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice 
on  the  medicine's  packaging; 
The authorised pack size 
 the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The  medicine's legal  status -
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
DocUUID: 0f3acf01-a84f-415a-b242-b675f9aeae4b 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
NITYR (Nitisinone) 
 Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Ltd 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Nityr  is  not  yet  available,  it  is  listed  under 
'missing  information' below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Nityr are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link  with  the  use  of  Nityr.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected.  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Developmental and cognitive disorders (for the indication hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1) 
Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Missing information 
Use in elderly 
Use in pregnant women 
II.B Summary of important risks
Important potential risk: Developmental and cognitive disorders (for the indication hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Completed clinical studies, literature review, and post marketing 
to the medicine 
surveillance. 
Risk factors and risk groups  All HT-1 patients treated with Nityr. Most likely patients with poor 
compliance with diet restrictions. 
Risk minimization measures  No risk minimization measures identified 
Additional 
None 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Important potential risk: Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
Completed clinical studies, literature review, and post marketing 
to the medicine 
surveillance. 
Risk factors and risk groups  All HT-1 and AKU patients treated with Nityr and with high levels of 
tyrosine. Potentially, HT-1 patients with poor compliance with diet 
DocUUID: 0f3acf01-a84f-415a-b242-b675f9aeae4b 
 
Risk Management Plan 
NITYR (Nitisinone) 
 Cycle Pharmaceuticals (Europe) Ltd 
restrictions and ensuing high levels of tyrosine most likely have an 
increased potential risk. 
Risk minimization measures  Routine risk minimization measures SmPC section 4.6 
Additional 
None 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Missing information: Use in elderly 
Risk minimization measures  No risk minimization measures identified 
I 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women. 
Risk minimization measures  Routine risk minimization measures SmPC section 4.6 
I 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Nityr. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no studies in post-authorisation development plan for Nityr. 
DocUUID: 0f3acf01-a84f-415a-b242-b675f9aeae4b 
 
