31 May 2018 
EMA/413721/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Nityr  
International non-proprietary name: nitisinone 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004582/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ........................................................................................ 2 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 15 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16 
2.3.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 16 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 35 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 35 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 35 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 37 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 38 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 40 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 40 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 40 
2.7.2. Labelling exemptions ....................................................................................... 40 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 40 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 41 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 2/42 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
Ae,t  
Ae∞  
Ae-INF 
AeT 
Cumulative amount of unchanged drug excreted into the urine until time t  
Cumulative amount of unchanged drug excreted into the urine in infinite time  
Cumulative amount of unchanged drug excreted into the urine in infinite time  
Cumulative amount of unchanged drug excreted into the urine until time T  
ANCOVA  
analysis of covariance  
ANOVA  
AUC∞  
AUCt  
AUCτ  
AUEC  
AUMC  
Analysis of variance  
Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
Area under the concentration-time curve calculated to the last observable 
concentration at time t.  
Area under the concentration-time curve during a dosage interval (τ) at steady-state  
Area under the effect-time curve  
Area under the moment curve, ie, the curve of the product of concentration and 
time vs time, from zero to infinity  
CHMP  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
CI 
CL 
CL/F 
CLcr 
CLr 
Cmax  
Cn,max  
Cn,min  
Css 
Css,av 
confidence interval  
Total body clearance of drug from the plasma  
Apparent clearance of drug from plasma after extravascular administration  
Creatinine clearance  
Renal clearance of drug from the plasma  
Peak (maximum) plasma concentration of the drug  
Maximum (peak) plasma drug concentration after regular administration of n doses  
Minimum (trough) plasma drug concentration after regular administration of n doses  
Steady-state drug concentration in the plasma during constant-rate infusion  
Average steady-state drug concentration in the plasma during a dosage interval  
Css,max 
Maximum (peak) steady-state drug concentration in the plasma during a dosage 
interval  
Css,min 
Minimum (trough) steady-state drug concentration in the plasma during a dosage 
interval  
Ct  
CV 
Concentration of drug in the plasma at any time t.  
coefficient of variation  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 3/42 
 
  
  
CYP1A2  
Cytochrome P450 1A2  
CYP2C19  
Cytochrome P450 2C19  
CYP2D6  
CYP3A4  
D  
EC50  
Emax  
Cytochrome P450 2D6  
Cytochrome P450 3A4  
Dose  
Concentration of drug producing 50% of Emax 
Maximum effect a drug produces  
Et or Ec  
Extent of effect a drug produces at time t or at concentration c  
EU  
F  
fe  
Fr  
FT 
fu  
GC 
GLS  
HDPE 
HPLC 
HPPD  
HT-1  
IC50  
ICH 
IR 
ka  
KF 
European Union  
Absolute bioavailability  
Fraction of the systemically available drug excreted into the urine  
Relative bioavailability  
Fourrier Transform 
Unbound fraction of drug in plasma 
Gas Chromatography 
Geometric least square  
High-Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
Hydroxy phenylpyruvate dioxygenase 
Hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1  
Concentration of drug producing 50% inhibition  
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Infrared 
Absorption rate constant (first-order)  
Karl Fischer titration 
LC/MS/MS  
Liquid chromatography with mass spectrometric identification and detection  
MRT  
NMR 
pH  
Mean residence time  
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Negative of the logarithm of the hydronium ion activity  
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 4/42 
 
  
  
pKa  
PP 
Ionisation constant  
Polypropylene 
Rac(AUC)  
Accumulation ratio based on AUC  
Rac(Cmax)  
Accumulation ratio based on Cmax  
Rac(Cmin)  
Accumulation ratio based on Cmin  
SGF 
t  
tlag  
tmax  
US  
USP 
UV 
V  
Vss  
Vss/F  
Vur  
Vz  
Vz/F  
Simulated Gastric Fluid 
Student t; specify α level, df, 1-tailed or 2-tailed  
Lag time for absorption  
Time to peak (maximum) plasma concentration  
 United States  
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
Apparent volume of distribution in the 1-compartment model (V= Vz= Vss)  
Volume of distribution at steady-state  
Apparent volume of distribution at steady-state after extravascular administration  
Volume of urine excreted 
Apparent volume of distribution during the terminal (λz) phase  
Apparent volume of distribution during the terminal (λz) phase after extravascular 
administration  
XRPD 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction 
γ  
λz  
τ  
Hill coefficient defining the steepness of the concentration-effect curve  
Apparent terminal-phase disposition rate constant (first-order)  
Dosage interval 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 5/42 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Cycle Pharmaceuticals Ltd submitted on 5 February 2017 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Nityr, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 July 2016. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Treatment  of  adult  and  paediatric  (in  any  age  range)  patients  with  confirmed  diagnosis  of  hereditary 
tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Orfadin instead of non-clinical and clinical data, 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Orfadin 10 mg hard capsule 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB 
•  Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/303/003 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Orfadin 10 mg hard capsule 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB 
•  Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/303/003 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 6/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Orfadin 10 mg hard capsule 
• 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB 
•  Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/303/003 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): CT-001 and CT-003 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related 
to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur:  Peter Kiely 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 5 February 2017.  
The procedure started on 23 February 2017. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 May 2017. The 
PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 29 May 2017. 
•  During the meeting on 22 June 2017, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent 
to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 6 December 2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 30 January 2018.  
•  During the PRAC meeting on 8 February 2018, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 7/42 
 
  
  
 
Advice to CHMP. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 22 February 2018, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 26 
February 2018. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Outstanding 
Issues to all CHMP members on 11 April 2018.  
•  During the CHMP meeting on 26 April 2018, the CHMP agreed on a second list of outstanding issues to 
be sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 30 April 
2018. 
In a written procedure concluding on 14 May 2018, the Pharmacokinetics Working Party (PKWP) 
addressed the questions raised by the CHMP. The CHMP considered the views of the PKWP, as presented 
in the minutes of this meeting.  
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 16 May 2018.  
•  During the meeting on 31 May 2018, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Nityr. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application for a marketing authorisation for Nityr tablets is submitted under Article 10(1) (generic of a 
reference medicinal product) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended. The reference product is Orfadin, hard 
capsules (Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB), authorised in the EU since 21st February 2005 
through the centralised procedure (EU/1/04/303/001-4). 
Orfadin is indicated for treatment of adult and paediatric (in any age range) patients with confirmed diagnosis 
of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT 1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine. 
The available treatment options for HT-1 prior to the use of nitisinone, included dietary restriction of 
phenylalanine and tyrosine and liver transplantation. However, diet alone does not prevent the progression of 
the disease. Disease management of HT-1 has significantly advanced since the introduction of nitisinone 
(NTBC). Nitisinone can rapidly normalise the biochemical markers of HT-1 and significantly improve the 
clinical symptoms in most patients. In the long term, it has markedly improved the life expectancy of HT-1 
patients.  
Nitisinone (2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione, or NTBC) is an inhibitor of the 4-
hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate dioxygenase (HDDP), an enzyme involved in the second step in tyrosine 
degradation. HPPD enzyme is located ‘upstream’ in the tyrosine degradation pathway with respect to the 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 8/42 
 
  
  
enzyme fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase, the last step in tyrosine degradation which is deficient in patients 
suffering from HT-1. HPPD inhibition prevents the accumulation of maleylacetoacetate and 
fumarylacetoacetate, which occurs in HT-1 patients as a consequence of their inherited defect of 
fumarylacetoacetate hydroxylase activity. 
They are partially converted to succinylacetone and succinylacetoacetate, which inhibit the 
porphobilinogen(PBG)-synthase activity in the heme synthesis pathway. This leads to accumulation and 
increased excretion in the urine of 5- aminolevulinate (5-ALA). 
Nitisinone treatment leads to normalised porphyrin metabolism with normal erythrocyte porphobilinogen 
synthase activity and urine 5-ALA and decreased urinary excretion of succinylacetone.  
Cycle Pharmaceutical initially proposed Nitisinone Cycle tablets in the doses of 2mg, 5mg and 10mg. The 
reference product ORFADIN capsules (EU/1/04/303/001-003) is available in 2mg, 5mg, 10mg and 20mg 
capsules, as well as in a 4mg/ml oral suspension for paediatric patients with difficulties swallowing. 
Orfadin capsules and suspension are a nitisinone product approved by the Agency for HT-1. Due to thermal 
instability at room temperature, these products are required to be stored in a refrigerator for long term 
storage, which may be inconvenient for patients as a lifelong treatment. In light of this, Nityr, a room 
temperature stable formulation, may be a valuable option for patients. 
Orphan designation has not been applied for this generic medicinal product. The reference product Orfadin 2 
mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum International AB was initially approved on the 21/02/2005 and 
hence its market exclusivity has expired.  
The indication as finally proposed for Nityr is in accordance with the reference product’s SmPC, except for the 
statement “in any age range”. The indication as approved for Nityr is: “Treatment of adult and paediatric 
patients with confirmed diagnosis of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1) in combination with dietary 
restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine.” 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 1 pivotal bioequivalence study (CT-003), 1 pivotal 
food effect study (CT-002) and one supporting pharmacokinetic study that investigated the bioavailability of 
Nitisinone Cycle (CT-001).  
In the pivotal bioequivalence study (CT-003) Nitisinone Cycle 10 mg tablets are compared to ORFADIN 
capsules 10 mg (Reference Medicinal Product, RMP). For the lower strengths (2 mg and 5 mg), Cycle had 
requested a biowaiver in accordance with the “Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence”, which was 
not granted. 
Nityr tablets are administered orally. The recommended initial dose in the paediatric and adult population is 1 
mg/kg body weight/day. The dose of nitisinone should be adjusted individually up to a dose of 2 mg/kg body 
weight/day based on the evaluation of all biochemical parameters. For detailed posology and method of 
administration, please refer to the Product information. 
Main safety concern is related to the mode of action of nitisinone and is well reflected in the agreed RMP:  
increased tyrosine levels, which are the cause of common eye related adverse reactions, such as 
conjunctivitis, corneal opacity, keratitis, photophobia, and eye pain. Other common adverse reactions include 
thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, and granulocytopenia. Exfoliative dermatitis may occur uncommonly. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 9/42 
 
  
  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as tablets containing 10 mg of nitisinone as active substance.  
Other ingredients are glycerol dibehenate and lactose monohydrate. 
The product is available in high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with a tamper-evident child-resistant 
closure of polypropylene (PP), as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of nitisinone is 2-(2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl) cyclohexane-1,3-dione corresponding 
to the molecular formula C 14H10F3NO5. It has a relative molecular mass of 329.23 and the following 
structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of nitisinone was elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis, mass 
spectrometry, NMR spectroscopy and UV/IR spectroscopy. An XRPD polymorph investigation study has been 
performed showing that polymorphism has not been observed for nitisinone. In addition, in a stability study 
carried out with Nityr tablets, there was no observation in polymorphic change under accelerated stability 
conditions (40 °C/75% RH) over the 12-month study period. 
The active substance is a white to light brown non-hygroscopic powder. It is poorly soluble in water, soluble 
in 2M sodium hydroxide and in methanol, and sparingly soluble in alcohol. Nitisinone is a weak acid and its 
solubility increases with pH. It is highly soluble in the pH range 4.5-7.2 in phosphate buffer solutions. 
Nitisinone does not exhibit stereoisomerism as it has a non - chiral molecular structure.  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 10/42 
 
  
  
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Nitisinone is synthesized in three main chemical transformation steps using two commercially available well-
defined starting materials with acceptable specifications. The synthesis of the active substance involves 
reacting the proposed starting materials ) to form a non-isolated intermediate which  further reacts to form 
the isolated crude active substance. The chemical steps are followed by crystallisation, isolation and 
purification steps. While the synthesis is short, the acceptability of the synthesis was thoroughly justified at 
the request of CHMP including factors such as the control of the starting materials, control of the synthesis 
steps and intermediates, and the ability of the synthesis to purge potential impurities. 
The occurrence and control of impurities in the active substance from the starting materials, impurities in the 
starting materials and reagents has been evaluated and the information regarding these has been 
supplemented during the procedure at the request of CHMP. The potential impurities that may be present in 
the starting materials are discussed and the likelihood of these impurities progressing through the synthesis 
and further reacting has been considered. The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are 
in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of new active substances. 
An evaluation of the mutagenic potential of these potential impurities (from the starting materials, impurities 
in the starting materials and reagents) has been conducted in accordance with ICH M7. Where an impurity 
has been observed in the synthesis or where that impurity has been identified as being of mutagenic concern 
a control is in place in the starting material specification to limit this impurity. The side reactions possible 
from impurities in the synthesis have been discussed and based on the discussion provided, the controls on 
the original impurities and the absence of any reported levels of these impurities, found acceptable.  
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
No important changes have been introduced during the development of the manufacturing process. 
The active substance is packaged in a sealed polythene bag which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC 
and  EC  10/2011  as  amended.  This  bag  is  then  placed  inside  another  sealed  polythene  bag.  The  material  is 
then held in a fibreboard cask with a fibreboard lid. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for: appearance, identity (IR, UV, HPLC), assay (HPLC), 
purity (HPLC), impurities (HPLC, GC), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), residual solvents (GC), water content (KF) 
and particle size distribution (laser diffraction). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described appropriately validated in accordance with the 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from one pilot scale and 6 commercial scale batches of the active substance are provided. 
The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 11/42 
 
  
  
Stability 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of the active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial package for up to 24 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) 
and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were 
provided. Photostability testing following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. Results on 
stress conditions heat/humidity, photolysis oxidation, acid and base conditions were also provided on one 
batch. 
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identity, assay, purity, impurities, sulfated ash, residual 
solvents and water content. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability 
indicating. 
All tested parameters were within the specifications. Assay decreased under photolytic and oxidative stress 
testing and degradation products increased under oxidative and base stress testing. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently 
stable. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Nityr tablets are an immediate-release solid oral dosage form, presented as white to beige, round flat tablet 
(7 x 2.3 mm), which may display light yellow to brown speckles marked with the tablet strength (10) on one 
side and ‘L’ on the other side.  
The aim of development was to produce an oral solid dosage form of nitisinone bioequivalent to the originator 
product Orfadin capsules 10 mg. The desired formulation should additionally possess the following attributes: 
acceptable and complete dissolution release, the correct amount of active substance in each tablet, stability, 
purity and acceptable appearance. 
Particle size of the active substance is not known to affect the manufacturability or dissolution performance of 
Nityr tablets. A polymorphism study was carried out to investigate the potential polymorphic change of the 
active substance in the finished product. Data confirmed that no polymorphic change has been observed in 
the finished product after 6 months of storage under accelerated conditions. 
Nitisinone has low solubility (< 0.04 mg/mL) below pH 5. The solubility increases with pH from 0.4 mg/mL at 
pH 5 to 41 mg/mL at pH 8. The dissolution of the finished product in phosphate buffer pH 6.8 reaches more 
than 90% in 30 minutes at release. In accordance with the Ph. Eur. 5.17.1 requirements and batch data, 
CHMP requested that the release specification for dissolution testing is amended to “Q=80% in 30 minutes” 
during the procedure. This is consistent with the recommendations in Reflection paper on the dissolution 
specification for generic oral immediate release products (EMA/332805/2016). 
The discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been investigated by introducing changes to both the 
manufacturing process (e.g. resulting in different tablet hardness) and formulation (e.g. change in levels of 
lubricant glyceryl dibehenate) and it has been demonstrated in a satisfactory manner. The dissolution method 
employs Apparatus II (Paddle), 900 mL of pH 6.8 buffer and 50 rpm paddle speed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 12/42 
 
  
  
During the development, a cyclization degradation pathway of nitisinone was identified, and this 
intramolecular cyclization reaction was shown to be accelerated by elevated temperature. 
The final commercial formulation has shown good stability and does not require refrigeration like the 
originator. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The formulation used during clinical studies is the same as that intended for marketing and the 
manufacturing processes are similar, as the manufacturing process involves only blending and compression 
steps. 
A pivotal, three-way crossover bioequivalence study was carried out with the reference product, generic 
medicinal product and aged generic medicinal product. The statistical analysis showed that both standard 
generic medicinal product and aged generic medicinal product are bioequivalent to the reference medicinal 
product. The reference and generic products differ in terms of the dosage form (capsules vs tablets, 
respectively) and excipients (pregelatinised starch, gelatin capsules and printing ink vs glyceryl dibehenate 
and lactose, respectively), however the bioequivalence study demonstrated that the products were 
equivalent. 
Dry blending and direct compression were chosen as the finished product manufacturing steps. The 
manufacturing development was initiated at lab scale and subsequently transferred to a scale-up lab using 
the proposed commercial manufacturing equipment. Following the successful manufacture of the finished 
product in the scale-up lab, the manufacturing process was determined, and three batches of the finished 
product were manufactured at commercial scale for validation. 
The primary packaging is high-density polyethylene (HDPE) 75 mL square bottles with a tamper-evident 
child-resistant closure of polypropylene (PP). The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended 
use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of two main steps: blending and tabletting. The process is considered to 
be a standard manufacturing process. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies. It has been 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality 
in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process and 
pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance, 
identification (HPLC, UV), average mass (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), water content (KF), 
assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), dissolution (in-house) and microbial purity (Ph. Eur.). 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 13/42 
 
  
  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance with 
the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and impurities 
testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 24 months under long 
term  conditions  (25  ºC  /  60%  RH)  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (40  ºC  /  75% RH) 
according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  Supportive  stability  study  under  intermediate  stability 
conditions  was  also  carried  out.  In  addition,  supportive  stability  data  is  also  provided  for  development 
batches stored under long term conditions for 18 months. The batches of medicinal product are identical to 
those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing. Matrixing 
(one-third reduction design) has been applied to the long term stability study as per ICH Q1D. 
Samples  were  tested  for  appearance,  water  content,  assay,  related  substances,  dissolution  and  microbial 
purity. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. No significant changes have been observed and 
all the results were within specifications.  
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New 
Drug Substances and Products. Compared to the dark control samples, there is no significant change in the 
product  quality  (appearance,  assay,  related  substance,  water  content  and  dissolution)  when  the  tablets  are 
stored  in  the  commercial  primary  packaging  and  exposed  to  the  light  source.  However,  slight  discoloration 
has  been  observed  when  tablets  were  exposed  to  the  light  source  directly.  In  addition,  new  unknown 
impurities were observed in related substance testing, but all of them are below reporting threshold. The side 
of  the  tablets  that  was  exposed  to  the  light  source  turned  from  white/off-white  to  light  yellow-cream.  It  is 
therefore concluded that the product should be stored in primary packaging and avoid light exposure. 
The in-use shelf life is set to 2 months based on the conclusion of in-use stability report. The finished product 
was subjected to a simulated in-use stability study. At different time-points tablets were removed from the 
bottle to simulate the headspace from the real world use, the bottles were opened daily and samples were 
analysed immediately after being taken out of the packaging. Based on the results, the statement “During 
the shelf life, the patient may store the open bottle for a period of 2 months, after which the medicinal 
product must be discarded.” is included in the Product Information. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 36 months and no special temperature storage 
conditions, but stored in the original bottle to protect from light as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are 
acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 14/42 
 
  
  
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. During the procedure significant additional information regarding the 
selection of starting materials and the active substance impurities was provided at the request of the CHMP. 
Dissolution specifications were also tightened at CHMP request. The results of tests carried out indicate 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented to 
give reassurance on TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of nitisinone are well known. As nitisinone is 
a widely used, well-known active substance, the applicant has not conducted additional nonclinical 
pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetics, toxicology, reproductive toxicology, genotoxicity or carcinogenicity 
studies. Overview based on literature review is, thus, appropriate. 
Nitisinone has been used to treat HT-1 since 1991, and approved for HT-1 treatment by EMA as ORFADIN 
capsules in the EU in 2005 (EMEA/H/C/000555), and as ORFADIN suspension in 2015. In the pivotal clinical 
study performed by Cycle, it has been demonstrated that Nitisinone Cycle is bioequivalent to ORFADIN 
capsules. Therefore, in this submission, the nonclinical development will rely on the nonclinical data that 
supported the approval of ORFADIN capsules (EMEA/H/C/000555) by EMA. The only additional information 
provided by the Company is a genotoxicity in silico analysis. 
The rationale for the conduct of the in silico analysis for nitisinone and its metabolites comes from the 
equivocal previous results which demonstrated that purified nitisinone was mutagenic in mammalian cells 
(mouse lymphoma forward mutation test) in vitro, while no test for chromosome damage in vitro was 
performed. Purified nitisinone also produced a weakly positive response in the mouse micronucleus test in 
vivo. A mouse liver unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay in vivo was subsequently performed in light of 
the positive genotoxicity results obtained and presence of structural alerts (electrophilic centres and an 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 15/42 
 
  
  
aromatic nitro group) for nitisinone. This study showed no evidence of DNA damage in vivo. Based on the in 
silico analysis and the combined evidence from the empirical evidence coupled with expert judgement neither 
nitisinone nor oxotetrahydroxanthone should be considered bacterial mutagens. As such these structures 
should be classified as class 5 under ICH M7. It is not expected that oxotetrahydroxanthone would induce 
additional toxicity to that shown by nitisinone. 
The present nonclinical literature review does not bring any additional data that from the regulatory point of 
view would change the safety profile of nitisinone in its present clinical use. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Environmental risk assessment has been carried out according to the present guidelines and does not cause 
any additional risks, because in the Tier I analysis the calculated PECsurfacewater value is below the action 
limit, 0.01 μg/L. 
2.3.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview has been provided and was based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature, a 
genotoxicity in silico analysis and environmental risk assessment. The CHMP considered this application 
acceptable from non-clinical point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for tablets containing nitisinone. To support the marketing authorisation application the 
applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was 
the pivotal study for the assessment (CT-003).  Furthermore 2 supportive studies were submitted, i.e. one 
food effect study (CT-002) and one supporting pharmacokinetic study that investigated bioavailability of 
Nitisinone Cycle (CT-001).  
In the pivotal bioequivalence study (CT-003) Nitisinone Cycle 10 mg tablets are compared to ORFADIN 
capsules 10 mg (Reference Medicinal Product, RMP).  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
Exemption  
For the lower strengths (2 mg and 5 mg) initially applied for, the applicant had requested a biowaiver in 
accordance with the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 16/42 
 
  
  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 1 pivotal bioequivalence study (CT-003), 1 pivotal 
food effect study (CT-002) and one supporting pharmacokinetic study that investigated the bioavailability of 
Nityr (CT-001).  
In the pivotal bioequivalence study (CT-003) Nityr 10 mg tablets are compared to ORFADIN capsules 10 mg 
(Reference Medicinal Product, RMP). In general, the 3 submitted studies were similar in design, study 
population, dosing, sampling schedules, analytical and statistical methods, PK variables measured and safety 
data generated.  
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
CT-003: Study PXL227430 
A single centre, single dose, open-label, laboratory blind, randomised, three period crossover study to 
determine the bioequivalence of two oral formulations containing nitisinone 10mg to the reference 
formulation Orfadin® 10mg in at least 18 healthy male and female subjects under fasting conditions.  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 17/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a single-dose, open-label, laboratory-blind, randomized, three-period crossover study with orally 
administered nitisinone 10 mg (2 test products and a reference product) conducted under fasting conditions 
in at least 18 healthy male and female subjects at a single study centre. 
Primary objective  
To determine whether the test products (nitisinone 10 mg tablets and nitisinone 10 mg tablets [6 months @ 
40°C/75% RH]), and the reference product, Orfadin® 10 mg hard capsules are bioequivalent. 
Design 
The study comprised: 
Screening period of maximum 21 days; 
Three treatment periods (each of which included a profile period of 120 hours) separated by a wash-out 
period of 23 to 24 calendar days between consecutive administrations of the investigational medicinal 
product (IMP), and 
A post-study visit within 72 hours of completion of the last treatment period of the study. The slit lamp 
examination at post-study was scheduled up to 7 days of completion of the last period of the study. 
Subjects received all three products according to a treatment sequence as randomized. After an overnight 
fast of at least 10 hours, subjects received either the reference product (Treatment A) Test Product 1 
(Treatment B) or Test Product 2 (Treatment C) according to the randomization schedule with 240 mL water. 
The IMP was swallowed whole with water. Aged Nityr tablets (stored at 40°C/75% RH for more than 6 
months) were administered to investigate the effect of prolonged dissolution time of Nityr on bioavailability. 
Reference product (Treatment A, Orfadin 10mg)  
Test Product 1 (Treatment B, Nitisinone Tablets 10mg, manufactured by Rivopharm SA)  
Test Product 2 (Treatment C, Nitisinone Tablets 10mg, 6 months @ 40°C/75% RH, manufactured by 
Rivopharm SA) 
Study Duration:  
Three treatment periods (each including a profile period of 120 hours), each starting with a 24-hour clinic day 
and a wash-out period of 23 to 24 calendar days between clinic days. The duration of this study was 
approximately 66 days (9 weeks) per subject (excluding the screening period). 
Dosing: 
The dosage in this study included a single oral dose of nitisinone 10 mg, on each of three separate occasions, 
under fasting conditions. 
The dose administered in this study was lower than the usual dose of nitisinone which is 1 to 2 mg/kg divided 
into two daily doses. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 18/42 
 
  
  
 
 
Sampling Schedule: 
Pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected at the following time points: at pre-dose (0 hours) and at 15 
minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 2 hours 30 minutes, 3 hours, 3 hours 30 minutes, 4 hours, 5 hours, 6 
hours, 7 hours, 8 hours, 10 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 36 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, 96 hours and 120 
hours post-dose (total: 21 samples per treatment period). The actual blood sampling times were recorded on 
source data and attached to the CRFs. 
Subjects were allowed to leave the study centre 24 hours after administration of IMP, providing they returned 
for the subsequent blood sample collection as instructed by the study staff. 
Venous blood samples, 6 mL each, for the determination of nitisinone in plasma concentrations were 
collected into labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) plastic tubes. 
Table 4: 
Test and reference products   
Subjects received all three products according to a treatment sequence as randomized. After an overnight 
fast of at least 10 hours, subjects received either the reference product (Treatment A, Orfadin 10mg, 
manufactured by Apotek Produktion & Laboratorier AB, Batch No 3041069, Exp 31/01/17) Test Product 1 
(Treatment B, Nitisinone Tablets 10mg, manufactured by Rivopharm SA, Switzerland, Batch No 151159, Exp 
10/06/16) or Test Product 2 (Treatment C, Nitisinone Tablets 10mg, 6 months @ 40°C/75% RH, 
manufactured by Rivopharm SA, Switzerland, Batch No TF0015/16, Exp 19/03/16) according to the 
randomization schedule with 240 mL water. The IMP was swallowed whole with water. 
Population(s) studied   
Healthy males and females, 18 to 55 years inclusive, BMI between 18.5 and 30 kg/m2, non-smokers, who 
were judged to be healthy based on a medical history, electrocardiogram (ECG), laboratory evaluation, 
physical examination, and vital signs measurements and willing to use an acceptable, effective method of 
contraception. 
One female subject was withdrawn from the study during Treatment period 1 because she vomited before 
2times median t max (pre-defined criteria in protocol for removal of subject from study). Twenty-three 
subjects (21 males and 2 females) completed both treatment phases. 
Protocol deviations are not likely to have influenced the outcome of the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 19/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Analytical methods   
The analytical methods are acceptable; the method underwent pre-study validation. The validation was 
performed according to the requirements of the EMA “Guideline on bioanalytical method validation” 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009).  Intra-run calibration standard accuracy was performed during sample 
analyses.  Sample handling is acceptable. Certificate of Analysis for reference standards were provided. A 
statement on GCP compliance in addition to a Quality Assurance Statement regarding adherence to the study 
protocol and SOPs was included.  
The bioanalytical method demonstrates acceptable performance and is suitable for the determination of 
Nitisinone in EDTA human plasma over the calibration range. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables 
Calculation  of  the  PK  parameters  was  made  with  Phoenix®  WinNonlin®  6.3  (Certara,  L.P.,  1699  South 
Hanley Road, St Louis, Missouri 63144, USA). All AUCs were calculated using the linear trapezoidal rule. 
The  PK  parameters  were  calculated  for  each  subject  and  treatment  using  non-compartmental  analysis  and 
using the actual sampling time intervals (relative to IMP administration). 
Primary Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) 
AUC from time zero to 120 hours post-dose (AUC(0-120)) 
Secondary Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
AUC from time zero to 72 hours post dose (AUC(0-72)) 
AUC with extrapolation to infinity (AUC(0-∞)) 
Time to maximum observed plasma concentration (tmax) 
Terminal elimination rate constant (λz) 
Apparent terminal elimination half-life (t ½) 
The test products were compared to the reference product with respect to the primary PK parameters for 
nitisinone, using an ANOVA with sequence, subject (sequence), treatment and period as fixed effects after 
logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the "test/reference" 
geometric mean ratios of these primary PK parameters were calculated. 
Criteria for Evaluation: 
The 90% CIs of the relative mean plasma AUCt (0-120) and Cmax of the test to reference products should be 
between 80.00 and 125.00%. 
Statistical methods   
The data listings, descriptive statistics, statistical analysis and graphs of this study were generated using 
SAS/STAT® and SAS/GRAPH® software. 
The test products were compared to the reference product by means of statistical analysis with respect to the 
primary PK parameters using an analysis of variance with sequence, subject (sequence), product and period 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 20/42 
 
  
  
effects after logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the 
"test/reference" geometric mean ratios of these parameters were tabulated. 
Bioequivalence of the test and reference products were assessed on the basis of the 90% confidence intervals 
for estimates of the geometric mean ratios between the primary PK parameters of the test and reference 
products using an analysis of variance considering the bioequivalence range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax 
and AUC(0-120). 
Randomisation 
Twenty-four (24) subjects were enrolled and randomized to a 6 sequence Williams design for 3 periods and 3 
treatments (ABC, BCA, CAB, ACB, BAC and CBA) in order to complete the study with at least 18 subjects. 
Determination of Sample size 
Based on a bioequivalence range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax and AUC(0-120), assuming a 
"test/reference" mean ratio between 0.95 and 1.05, 18 subjects were needed to achieve a power of 80% at 
an alpha level of 0.05 to show bioequivalence for this 3-period study. 
Results 
Table 5: Pharmacokinetic parameters for Nitisinone (non-transformed and ln-transformed values) 
CT-002: Study PXL-225421 
A single centre, single-dose, open-label, laboratory-blind, randomized, two-period crossover study to 
determine the comparative bioavailability of an oral formulation containing of nitisinone 10 mg in at least 16 
healthy male and female subjects under fasted and fed conditions. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 21/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Methods 
Study design 
This  was  a  single-dose,  open-label,  laboratory-blind,  randomized,  two-period  crossover  study  with  orally 
administered  nitisinone  10  mg  conducted  under  fasting  and  fed  conditions  in  19  healthy  male  and  female 
subjects at a single study centre. 
Primary objective  
To assess the comparative bioavailability of Nityr tablets in healthy subjects under fasted and fed conditions 
(food-effect). 
Design 
The study comprised: 
Screening period of maximum 21 days; 
Two treatment periods (each of which included a profile period of 120 hours) separated by a wash-out period 
of 23 calendar days between consecutive administrations of the investigational medicinal product (IMP). 
A post-study visit within 72 hours of completion of the last treatment period of the study. The slit lamp 
examination at post-study was scheduled up to 7 days of completion of the last period of the study. 
Subjects were assigned randomly to a condition (fasting, then fed or fed, then fasting) sequence, before the 
first administration of IMPs. 
Before dosing, subjects were randomized into two groups (50/50 randomization). The first group received the 
IMP after a high-calorie, high fat breakfast in Treatment period 1, while the second group received the IMP 
after a high-calorie, high fat breakfast in Treatment period 2. 
Study Duration:  
The duration of this study was approximately 31 days (4½ weeks) per subject (excluding the screening 
period). The actual overall study duration and study recruitment time varied. 
Each treatment period included a profile period of 120 hours, which commenced with morning dosing of IMP 
on a 24-hour clinic stay at the study centre. 
Subjects were admitted to the study centre on Day -1 to ensure an overnight fast of at least 10 hours before 
dosing. 
Dosing: 
In compliance with bioavailability/bioequivalence guidelines, the dosage in this study included a single oral 
dose of nitisinone 10 mg, on each of 2 separate occasions, under fed and fasting conditions, respectively. 
The dose administered in this study was lower than the usual dose of nitisinone which is 1 to 2 mg/kg divided 
into two daily doses. 
Sampling Schedule: 
Pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected and stored according the same schedule and methods as seen 
in CT-003 in both arms.  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 22/42 
 
  
  
 
General Dietary restrictions: 
The IMP was administered in the standing position. Posture control procedures were documented. 
The ingestion of food and beverages containing citrus fruits and/or apple or pineapple was not allowed for 72 
hours before the administration of IMP and until the last PK blood sample was collected per treatment period. 
The ingestion of food and beverages containing alcohol and/or methylxanthines e.g., caffeine (coffee, tea and 
cola) was not allowed for 24 hours before the administration of IMP and until the last PK blood sample was 
collected per treatment period. 
Food and beverage intake during the clinic stay was standardized per treatment period. Meals taken after 
dosing were standardized in regard to composition and time of administration. 
Water was allowed as desired except for 1 hour before and 1 hour after IMP administration and no food was 
allowed for at least 4 hours post-dose. 
For subjects randomized into the fed treatment period, a high-fat, high-calorie breakfast was served 30 
minutes before administration of the IMP. The whole meal was consumed within 30 minutes. 
Strenuous physical activity was not allowed for 24 hours before the start of each clinic day and until the last 
PK blood sample was collected per treatment period. 
•  Table 6: Prescribed meal  
Test and reference products  
Subjects received the test product once under fasting conditions and once under fed conditions. 
Subjects in the fasting treatment period received the test product (according to the randomization schedule) 
with 240 mL water after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours. Subjects in the fed treatment period fasted for 
at least 10 hours overnight, and received the test product 30 minutes after consuming a high-calorie, high-
fat breakfast. The tablet of nitisinone was swallowed whole with water. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 23/42 
 
  
  
 
 
Test Product 
Generic name: Nitisinone 
Dosage form: Tablets 
Dose: 10 mg (1 tablet) 
Route of administration: Oral 
Manufacturer: Rivopharm SA, Switzerland 
Batch number: 151159 
Retest date: 21 November 2015. 01 January 2016 (updated certificate of analysis) 
Assayed product content: 102%. 100% (updated certificate of analysis) 
Population(s) studied 
Healthy males and females, 18 to 55 years inclusive, BMI between 18.5 and 30 kg/m2, non-smokers, who 
were judged to be healthy based on a medical history, electrocardiogram (ECG), laboratory evaluation, 
physical examination, and vital signs measurements, willing to consume the prescribed meal and willing to 
use an acceptable, effective method of contraception. 
Twenty subjects (17 males and 3 females) were screened and entered into the study. One female subject 
withdrew from the study after Treatment period 1 for personal reasons. Nineteen subjects (17 males and 2 
females) completed both treatment phases. 
Seventeen male and two female subjects completed the study. Two subjects were Caucasian and 17 subjects 
were Black. 
Protocol deviations are not likely to have influenced the outcome of the study. 
Analytical methods 
As per CT-003 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
• 
Primary Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
•  Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) 
•  Area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve,  from  time  zero  to  120  hours  post-dose  
(AUC(0-120)) 
•  Secondary Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
•  AUC from time zero to 72 hours post dose (AUC(0-72)) 
•  AUC with extrapolation to infinity (AUC(0-∞)) 
•  Time to reach maximum observed plasma concentration (Tmax) 
•  Terminal elimination rate constant (λz) 
•  Apparent terminal elimination half-life (t ½) 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 24/42 
 
  
  
The test product was compared under fasting and fed conditions by means of statistical analysis with respect 
to the primary PK parameters using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with sequence, subject (sequence), 
fed/fasting and period effects after logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% 
confidence intervals for the "fed/fasting" geometric mean ratios of these parameters are tabulated. 
•  Criteria for Evaluation: 
Bioavailability of the test product under fasting and fed conditions was assessed on the basis of the 90% 
confidence intervals for estimates of the geometric mean ratios between the primary PK parameters of the 
test product under fasting and fed conditions using an analysis of variance considering the conventional 
range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax and AUC(0-120) 
A non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test was performed on the variable Tmax for the test product under 
fasting and fed conditions differences and the results were tabulated. 
Statistical methods 
All subjects for whom primary PK parameters Cmax and AUC(0-120) were planned to be calculated for both 
treatment periods and who had no major protocol deviations thought to impact on the analysis of the PK data 
were included in the statistical PK analysis for the study. 
The individual plasma nitisinone concentration versus actual time profiles for each subject and treatment 
(fast or fed), as well as the mean plasma (arithmetic and geometric) plasma nitisinone concentration versus 
scheduled time profiles for each treatment (fast or fed), are presented graphically on a linear-linear and log-
linear scale. Individual plasma concentrations are presented using actual, rather than planned, sampling 
times. Combined individual concentration versus time graphs per treatment (fast or fed) are presented on a 
linear-linear scale, together with the geometric mean values. The individual log-linear graphs reflecting the 
WinNonlin modeling results, are presented using SAS. 
The data listings, descriptive statistics, statistical analysis and graphs of this study were generated using 
SAS/STAT® and SAS/GRAPH® software.  
Randomisation 
The randomization schedule was generated utilizing the PROC PLAN procedure of SAS software. 
Subjects will be randomized to one of two treatment sequences (fasting, then fed or fed, then fasting) and 
were assigned randomization numbers 01 – xx, sequentially. 
Determination of Sample size 
Upon request of the sponsor, 20 eligible subjects were entered into the study, to complete the study with at 
least 16 evaluable subjects. 
This corresponded to the following: 
Based on the conventional range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax and AUC(0-120) and a "fed/fasting" mean 
ratio between 0.95 and 1.05, 16 subjects are needed to achieve a power of 80% at an alpha level of 0.05 to 
compare bioavailability 
Results 
The test product was compared under fasting and fed conditions by means of a statistical analysis with 
respect to the primary PK parameters using an ANOVA with sequence, subject (sequence), treatment and 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 25/42 
 
  
  
period effects after logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for 
the "fed/fasting" geometric mean ratios of these parameters are tabulated. 
Table  7:  Summary  of  Statistical  Analyses  of  Plasma  Nitisinone  Pharmacokinetic  Parameters 
(Number of Observations = 38) 
Bioavailability was based on the PK parameters of AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120). The mean ratio (Fed/Fast) of 
the AUC(0-120) was 95.30% with a 90% confidence interval (CI) 92.71% and 97.95%. Under the fed state, 
the AUC(0-120) coefficient of variation was reduced from 26.4% (fasted) to 17.1%. The mean ratio 
(Fed/Fast) of the AUC(0-72) was 95.07% with 90% CI 92.70% and 97.50%. Under the fed state, the AUC(0-
72) coefficient of variation was reduced from 25.0% (fasted) to 16.8%.  
Following single-dose administration of the IMP, maximum plasma concentrations of nitisinone were reached 
at a median of 6 hours post-dose under fed conditions and 3 hours post-dose under fasting conditions (p-
value = 0.0048). 
The point estimates of the "Fed/Fast" mean ratios of the PK parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120) 
for nitisinone are 91.11%, 95.07% and 95.30%, respectively. 
The 90% CI for the "Fed/Fast" mean ratios of the PK parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72), and AUC(0-120) for 
nitisinone are 86.56% to 95.91%. 92.70% to 97.50%, and 92.71% to 97.95%, respectively. 
CT-001: Study PXL-225418 
A single centre, single-dose, open-label, laboratory-blind, randomized, three-period crossover study to 
determine the comparative bioavailability of two oral formulations containing of nitisinone 10 mg in at least 
16 healthy male and female subjects under fasted conditions. 
Methods 
Study design 
This was a single-dose, open-label, laboratory-blind, randomized, two-period crossover study with orally 
administered nitisinone 10 mg (two test formulations and a reference product) conducted under fasting and 
fed conditions in 18 healthy male and female subjects at a single study centre. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 26/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Background 
The clinical study was performed in Bloemfontein (South Africa). The sponsor was Cycle Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
The study report states that the study was conducted in accordance with ICH GCP and the Declaration of 
Helsinki. The study period was from 15/10/15 to 22/01/16.  
Primary objective  
To determine whether the test products (nitisinone 10 mg tablets and nitisinone 10 mg high compritol 
tablets), and the reference product, Orfadin® 10 mg hard capsules are bioequivalent.  
Design 
The study comprised: 
•  Screening period of maximum 21 days; 
•  Three treatment periods (each of which included a profile period of 120 hours) separated by a wash-
out  period  of  23  calendar days  between  consecutive  administrations  of  the investigational  medicinal 
product (IMP)  
•  A  post-study  visit  within  72  hours  of  completion  of  the  last  treatment  period  of  the  study.  The  slit 
lamp  examination  at  post-study  was  scheduled  up  to  7  days  of  completion  of  the  last  period  of  the 
study. 
Subjects were assigned randomly to treatment sequence according to the randomization schedule, before the 
first administration of IMP. 
Study Duration:  
The duration of this study was approximately 66 days (~9 weeks) per subject (excluding the screening 
period). The actual overall study duration and study recruitment time varied.  
Each treatment period included a profile period of 120 hours, which commenced with morning dosing of IMP 
on a 24-hour clinic stay at the study centre. 
Subjects were admitted to the study centre on Day -1 to ensure an overnight fast of at least 10 hours before 
dosing. 
Dosing: 
In compliance with bioavailability/bioequivalence guidelines, the dosage in this study included a single oral 
dose of nitisinone 10 mg, on each of 3 separate occasions, under fasting conditions. 
A mouth check was performed after each dosing by the principal investigator or designee to ensure that the 
subjects had swallowed the IMP. 
Water was allowed as desired except for 1 hour before and 1 hour after IMP administration and no food was 
allowed for at least 4 hours post-dose. 
The ingestion of food and beverages containing citrus fruits and/or apple or pineapple was not allowed for 72 
hours before the administration of IMP and until the last PK blood sample was collected per treatment period. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 27/42 
 
  
  
 
 
Sampling Schedule: 
Pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected and stored according the same schedule and methods as the 
previous studies. CT –002 and CT 003. 
General Dietary restrictions and physical activity: 
This was the same as study 002. 
Test and reference products 
Population(s) studied   
Healthy males and females, 18 to 55 years inclusive, BMI between 18.5 and 30 kg/m2,  
Body  mass  not  less  than  50  kg,  non-smokers,  who  were  judged  to  be  healthy  based  on  a  medical  history, 
electrocardiogram (ECG), laboratory evaluation, physical examination, and vital signs measurements, willing 
to consume the prescribed meal and willing to use an acceptable, effective method of contraception. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 28/42 
 
  
  
 
Twenty-four subjects (19 males and 5 females) were screened and entered into the study. One male subject 
was withdrawn from the study on 26 October 2015 (Day 1 of Treatment period 1) because he vomited. 
Twenty-three subjects (18 males and 5 females) completed the study. 
Deviations from the scheduled sampling times for collection of the PK blood samples were presented in the 
dossier. These deviations are not likely to have influenced the outcome of the study. 
Analytical methods   
As per CT-003 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
Calculation of the PK parameters was made with Phoenix® WinNonlin® 6.2 (or higher) (Certara, L.P., 1699 
South Hanley Road, St Louis, Missouri 63144, USA).  
The PK parameters were calculated for each subject and treatment using non-compartmental analysis and 
using the actual sampling time intervals (relative to IMP administration). 
Primary Pharmacokinetic Parameters 
•  Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) 
•  Area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve,  from  time  zero  to  120  hours  post-dose  
(AUC(0-120)) 
Analysis of Bioequivalence  
The statistical analysis was conducted separately for the following:  
•  Treatment B (Test Product 1) versus Treatment A (Reference Product)  
•  Treatment C (Test Product 2) versus Treatment A (Reference Product)  
Only the data for the comparison under investigation were included in the statistical analysis i.e., when 
comparing Treatment A and Treatment C, the data for Treatment B were removed from the dataset.  
Subjects had to have the primary PK parameters Cmax and AUC(0-120) available for both treatments in 
order to be included in a specific analysis; a subject was therefore included in 1 or 2 comparisons for a given 
parameter.  
The test products were compared to the reference product by means of statistical analysis with respect to the 
primary PK parameters using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with sequence, subject (sequence), treatment 
and period effects after logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals 
for the "test/reference" geometric mean ratios of these parameters were tabulated.  
Criteria for Evaluation: 
Bioavailability of the test product under fasting and fed conditions was assessed on the basis of the 90% 
confidence intervals for estimates of the geometric mean ratios between the primary PK parameters of the 
test product under fasting and fed conditions using an analysis of variance considering the conventional 
range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax and AUC(0-120) 
For submission to the FDA, a non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test was performed on the variable Tmax 
for the test product under fasting and fed conditions differences and the results were tabulated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 29/42 
 
  
  
Statistical methods 
All subjects for whom the primary PK parameters Cmax and AUC(0-120) could be calculated for at least two 
treatment periods (where one of the treatment periods needed to be the period in which the subject received 
the Reference product [Treatment A]), and who had no major protocol deviations thought to impact on the 
analysis of the PK data were included in the statistical PK analysis for the study.  
Data from subjects who experienced vomiting during the course of the study were deleted from the statistical 
analysis if vomiting occurred at or before 2 times median Tmax.  
The individual plasma nitisinone concentration versus actual time profiles for each subject and treatment, as 
well as the mean plasma (arithmetic and geometric) plasma nitisinone concentration versus scheduled time 
profiles for each treatment (fast or fed), are presented graphically on a linear-linear and log-linear scale. 
Individual plasma concentrations are presented using actual, rather than planned, sampling times. Combined 
individual concentration versus time graphs per treatment (fast or fed) are presented on a linear-linear scale, 
together with the geometric mean values. The individual log-linear graphs reflecting the WinNonlin modeling 
results, are presented using SAS. 
The data listings, descriptive statistics, statistical analysis and graphs of this study were generated using 
SAS/STAT® and SAS/GRAPH® software 
Randomisation 
A randomization schedule was provided by PAREXEL Biostatistics. The randomization schedule was generated 
utilizing the PROC PLAN procedure of SAS® software.  
Subjects were randomized to 1 of 6 treatment sequences (ABC, BCA, CAB, ACB, BAC, CBA) and were 
assigned randomization numbers 01 to 24.  
The subject who was withdrawn from the study was not replaced. 
Determination of Sample size 
Upon request of the Sponsor, 24 subjects were enrolled and randomized to a 6 sequence Williams design for 
3 periods and 3 treatments (ABC, BCA, CAB, ACB, BAC and CBA) in order to complete the study with at least 
18 subjects.  
This corresponds to the following: Based on a bioequivalence range of 80.00% to 125.00% for Cmax and 
AUC(0-120) a and a "test/reference" mean ratio between 0.95 and 1.05, 18 subjects were needed to achieve 
a power of 80% at an alpha level of 0.05 to show bioequivalence [2] for this 3-period study. 
Below the Limit of Quantification (BLQ) concentrations will be handled as follows: 
This was the same as study CT-002. 
Results 
The test products was compared under fasting conditions by means of a statistical analysis with respect to 
the primary PK parameters using an ANOVA with sequence, subject (sequence), treatment and period effects 
after logarithmic transformation of the data. Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the 
"fed/fasting" geometric mean ratios of these parameters are tabulated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 30/42 
 
  
  
 
Table  8:  Summary  of  Statistical  Analyses  of  Plasma  Nitisinone  Pharmacokinetic  Parameters 
(Number of Observations = 38) 
Following single-dose administration of the test and reference products, maximum plasma concentrations of 
nitisinone were reached at a median of 2.5 hours for the reference product and 3 hours post-dose for the test 
products (p-value for Test 1 vs Reference = 0.2034; p-value for Test 2 vs Reference = 0.1098).  
Test 1 vs Reference  
The point estimates of the "test/reference" mean ratios of the PK parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-
120) for nitisinone are 97.80%, 100.43% and, 100.83% respectively.  
The 90% confidence intervals for the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and 
AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 93.77% to 102.00%, 96.84% to 104.15% and 96.58% to 105.27% 
respectively.  
Test 2 vs Reference  
The point estimates of the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120) 
for nitisinone are 92.95%, 94.32% and 94.22%, respectively. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax., AUC(0-72) and 
AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 84.03% to 102.82%, 84.58% to 105.19% and 84.85% to 104.63%, 
respectively. 
Biowaiver 
A biowaiver was sought for the lower strengths (2 mg and 5 mg). Comparative dissolution studies were 
carried out in four media to demonstrate equivalent drug release to the 10 mg tablet used in the clinical 
bioequivalence studies. The qualitative and quantitative composition of the test and reference products was 
compared in the context of the general requirements for a biowaiver of an additional strength from the 
guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr). The quantitative 
composition for the test product (lower strengths) presented a deviation from the requirements in that the 
amount of the active substance was more than 5 % of the tablet core weight.  The applicant was requested 
to justify this deviation and opinion was sought from the Pharmacokinetics Working Party on the adequacy of 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 31/42 
 
  
  
 
the justification. The justification provided by the applicant was not accepted.  The Applicant subsequently 
withdrew their application for marketing authorisation for the lower strength tablets of 5 mg and 2mg.  
Safety data 
Study CT-003 
No deaths or SAEs were reported during this study and none of the AEs were of severe intensity.  
Four subjects had a total of 5 AEs during the study. Two of the events were considered by the investigator to 
be possibly related to the IMP. All of the events were considered by the investigator to be of mild intensity.  
Table 9: Summary of Adverse Events 
No AEs related to laboratory variables were reported, all results outside the normal reference range were 
assessed as not clinically significant by the investigator or repeated.  
Pulse rate and blood pressure remained essentially unchanged throughout the study. Body temperature 
before dosing on clinic days ranged between 35.5°C and 36.6°C, and no subjects were withdrawn due to 
pathologically raised body temperature. Results from the 12-lead ECGs performed on all subjects were 
normal. 
No clinically relevant abnormalities were observed in any of the subjects for the physical examinations 
performed at screening. No abnormal results were reported or the slit lamp eye examinations performed 
during screening and at post-study. 
Study CT-002 
The safety population in CT-002 includes 20 subjects who were enrolled and administered at least one dose 
of an IMP. 
No subjects were withdrawn from the study by the investigator. One subject received only 1 dose of the IMP 
as she withdrew from the study after completion of Treatment period 1 because of personal reasons. 
All 20 subjects who were enrolled and administered at least one dose of IMP were included in the safety 
analysis. 
No SAEs or deaths were reported during this study and none of the AEs were of severe intensity. No AEs 
related to laboratory variables were reported. 
Two subjects had a total of 2 AEs during the study. Both of the events were considered by the investigator to 
be possibly related to the study medication and both were considered to be mild in intensity 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 32/42 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 10: Summary of Adverse Events 
Both dizziness and throat irritation occurred at a % incidence of 5.3%.  
No AEs related to laboratory variables were reported, all results outside the normal reference range were 
assessed as not clinically significant by the investigator or repeated.  
Pulse rate and blood pressure remained essentially unchanged throughout the study. Body temperature 
before dosing on clinic days ranged between 35.6°C and 37.1°C, and no subjects were withdrawn due to 
pathologically raised body temperature.  
12-lead ECGs were performed on all subjects. One abnormal 12-lead ECG result was reported (QTc >450 ms 
[QTcF = 434.3 ms]) but was considered by the investigator to be not clinically significant. No abnormal 12-
lead ECG results were reported for any of the other subjects. 
No clinically relevant abnormalities were observed in any of the subjects for the physical examinations 
performed at screening. One abnormal physical examination was reported (strabism) but was considered by 
the investigator to be not clinically significant. 
No abnormal results were reported or the slit lamp eye examinations performed during screening and at 
post-study. 
Study CT-001 
No deaths or SAEs were reported during the study and no AE was of severe intensity. One subject (a 24 year 
old, male subject) with no notable medical history vomited from 12:11 to 12:12. The investigator reported it 
as an AE and the subject was withdrawn from the study on 26 October 2015 as he vomited before 2 times 
median Tmax.  The AE was considered by the investigator as possibly related to the IMP and to be mild in 
intensity. 
Ten of the 24 subjects reported 14 TEAEs. Nine TEAEs were considered by the investigator to be possibly 
related to the IMPs (Reference Product: 5 AEs; Test Product 1: 1 AE; Test Product 2: 3 AEs). The adverse 
events were mild in intensity.  
There was no clinically significant and/or consistent drug-related change in vital signs, physical findings or 
safety laboratory values after administration of a total dose of 10 mg nitisinone per treatment period. 
Generally the safety data is in line with that of the reference product although an extra patient experienced 
pruritus with test product 2 versus Test product 1 or reference however this could be a chance finding as the 
numbers are too low. 
Conclusions on pharmacokinetics 
Bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  in  Study  CT-003  and  based  on  the  PK  parameters  of  nitisinone  10  mg 
tablets (Test product 1) compared with Orfadin® 10 mg hard capsules (Reference).  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 33/42 
 
  
  
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
For  Cmax  the  mean  ratio  was  95.90%  with  the  90%  confidence  interval  between  91.66%  and 
100.34%.  
The mean ratio of AUC(0-72) was 98.81% with confidence interval between 95.63% and 102.09%.  
The mean ratio of AUC(0-120) was 99.86% with confidence interval between 96.34% and 103.51%.  
The tmax was 2.50 hours and 3.5 hours for the reference and the test product, respectively, and was 
not statistically different between the 2 products.  
In addition, bioequivalence was based on the PK parameters of nitisinone 10 mg tablets (6 months @ 
40°C/75% RH) (Test Product 2) compared with Orfadin® 10 mg hard capsules (Reference).  
For Cmax the mean ratio was 95.55% with the 90% confidence interval between 91.14% and 100.19%.  
The mean ratio of the AUC(0-72) was 98.05% with confidence interval between 93.98% and 102.28%.  
The mean ratio of AUC(0-120) was 98.84% with confidence interval between 94.75% and 103.11%. 
The tmax was 2.50 hours and 3.90 hours for the reference and the test product, respectively, and was 
statistically different between the 2 products. Bioequivalence has been shown in Study CT-003 between Test 
Product 1 and 2 and the reference product according to standards set by Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) 
Regarding the fast/fed study CT-002, the point estimates of the "Fed/Fast" mean ratios of the PK parameters 
Cmax, AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 91.11%, 95.07% and 95.30%, respectively.  
The 90% CI for the "Fed/Fast" mean ratios of the PK parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72), and AUC(0-120) for 
nitisinone are 86.56% to 95.91%. 92.70% to 97.50%, and 92.71% to 97.95%, respectively.  
Basing bioavailability on Cmax and AUC(0-72), Nityr has been shown to be bioequivalent in fasting and fed 
states, the fed state reduced the subject variability.  
Under the fed state, the AUC(0-120) coefficient of variation was reduced from 26.4 (fasted) to 17.1%. Under 
the fed state, the AUC(0-72) coefficient of variation was reduced from 25.0% (fasted) to 16.8%. The median 
Tmax was 6.0 hours and 3.0 hours for the fed and the fast, respectively, and was statistically different 
between the study conditions (p=0.0048). 
Regarding the supportive study CT-001, for test product 1 The point estimates of the "test/reference" mean 
ratios of the PK parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 97.80%, 100.43% and, 
100.83% respectively. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax, AUC(0-72) and 
AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 93.77% to 102.00%, 96.84% to 104.15% and 96.58% to 105.27% 
respectively 
For Test product 2: The point estimates of the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax ., 
AUC(0-72) and AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 92.95%, 94.32% and 94.22%, respectively. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the "test/reference" mean ratios of the parameters Cmax., AUC(0-72) and 
AUC(0-120) for nitisinone are 84.03% to 102.82%, 84.58% to 105.19% and 84.85% to 104.63%, 
respectively. Bioequivalence for both test products has been demonstrated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 34/42 
 
  
  
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Nitisinone should be administered with a tyrosine and phenylalanine restriction diet. There is a predictable 
increase in plasma tyrosine concentrations if nitisinone is administered without a restricted diet. 
To support the application, the applicant conducted 3 bioequivalence studies. 
All 3 studies examined for BE-using the 10mg dose with results meeting the predefined limits, in line with the 
respective EMA Guideline (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **).  
All of the studies were reported to be in line with GCP and had ethical approval in accordance with the version 
of the Declaration of Helsinki that applied at the time the studies were conducted.  
CT-001 was a 3-way cross-over study single dose in fasting state. There were 2 test products 10mg and a 
10mg tablet with a higher compritol level. 
CT-002 study examined the 10mg test product in fasting and fed conditions. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 35/42 
 
  
  
 
CT-003 study was the pivotal bioequivalence study and similar to the other studies and examined 10mg test 
product, 10mg aged test product to the reference in fasting conditions again bioequivalence was 
demonstrated. 
All of the studies were sufficiently powered for, the applicant accounted for the patients enrolled and the 
protocol deviations that occurred were detailed.  These were not deemed to be significant as they were 
unlikely to affect the bioequivalence conclusions of the trials. The statistical methods of analyses were similar 
and acceptable. 
The bioanalytical analyses were also similar between the studies and were also found to be acceptable. 
All the treatments were administered as single 10 mg doses of Nitisinone with a washout of at least 23 days 
between each treatment period. Pharmacokinetic samples were collected over 120 hours in each treatment 
period.  
Pharmacokinetic samples were collected over 120 hours in each treatment period. The PK parameters were 
calculated with non-compartmental methods, and Cmax and AUC0-120 were analysed. 
The results demonstrated that for all test products bioequivalence was demonstrated between Nityr (test 
product 1 and test product 2) and ORFADIN capsules (reference product) as the 90% confidence intervals of 
both PK parameters are within 80% and 125%. 
Additionally, a food effect study (CT-002) was conducted with the Nityr tablets 10 mg (batch 151159) to 
investigate the food effect on the bioavailability of Nityr tablets.  Nityr was administered as single 10 mg 
doses of nitisinone with high fat food under fed conditions, with a washout of at least 23 days between each 
treatment period. Pharmacokinetic samples were collected over 120 hours in each treatment period. The PK 
parameters were calculated with non-compartmental methods, and Cmax and AUC0-120 were analysed.  
Bioequivalence was demonstrated between the Nityr administered under fasted and fed conditions, 
suggesting that there is no food effect for Nityr.  
A biowaiver was sought for the lower strengths (2 mg and 5 mg). The justification presented by the applicant 
to deviate from the requirements of the guideline on investigation of bioequivalence for a biowaiver for the 
lower strengths (2mg and 5mg ) was not accepted by the CHMP in consultation with the PKWP. The applicant 
subsequently withdrew the application for the 2 mg and 5 mg strengths.  
Infant administration  
To support the administration in paediatric patients or patients who are not able to swallow the tablets, 
alternate delivery methods were proposed for Nityr tablets 
However, it was agreed that instead a statement would be included in the SmPC stating that for such 
patients, other pharmaceutical forms are available. 
The following statement was added to the SmPC and package leaflet: 
SmPC: For paediatric patients who have difficulties swallowing tablets, other pharmaceutical forms are 
available. 
Package Leaflet: Patients who have problems swallowing NITYR tablets whole, including children, are 
recommended to take alternative nitisinone formulations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 36/42 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety  
The safety evaluations, clinical laboratory evaluations, vital signs, ECG and physical exam results provided 
are consistent with the reference product and no new safety concerns were reported.  
The pre- and post-marketing safety data collected for ORFADIN capsules are limited. This reflects the 
worldwide rarity of patients with HT-1. The safety data relating to nitisinone are located in the NTBC Study 
(main and complimentary), published literature and post-marketing experience for ORFADIN capsules 
(PSURs). Data from the bioequivalence and food-effect studies conducted by Cycle Pharmaceuticals did not 
impact on the safety profile of nitisinone. 
The safety data extracted from the literature are generally consistent with that found in the NTBC Studies 
(main and complimentary analysis). Reports extracted from the literature and the Bridging PSUR included a 
number of adverse events associated to neurological disorders such as impaired cognitive function and 
development problems which were not recorded in the NTBC Studies. However, such developmental problems 
have been associated with high tyrosine levels, which are already closely monitored and controlled in HT-1 
patients receiving nitisinone. 
The most common AEs related to nitisinone treatment (ARs) are visual disorders, which in the majority are 
found to be non-serious and disappear either spontaneously or after improved compliance with the diet. 
Besides eye symptoms, the adverse events, which may be attributed to treatment with nitisinone include 
thrombocytopenia and leucopenia and skin symptoms. 
As this is a generic application, the demonstration of bioequivalence can support bridging to the efficacy and 
safety of the reference product ORFADIN capsules. 
No deaths or SAEs were reported during the study and no AE was of severe intensity, the adverse events 
which occurred in the clinical program were mild to moderate in nature.  
The applicant did not conduct additional safety or efficacy data which is acceptable for this application. 
However, due to the limited number of patients with sufficient follow-up, the long-term safety profile of 
nitisinone is not well-known, the applicant will continue to closely monitor all safety data. 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies provided, Nityr 10mg tablets is considered bioequivalent with 
ORFADIN 10mg capsules. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The one pivotal and two supportive studies showed bioequivalence between the reference 10mg capsules and 
the applicant’s 10mg tablet formulations. These supported several aspects of the Nitisinone Cycle application. 
Firstly in CT-003 it has been shown that the 10mg dose meets the predefined limits, in line with the 
respective EMA Guideline (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) for bioequivalence and bridging the 
CHMP’s previous findings on efficacy and safety of ORFADIN capsules can be accepted for this formulation. 
CT-002 displayed bioequivalence in the fasting and fed state and supports the administration of tablets with 
food.  
CT-001 displayed bioequivalence between the 10mg reference and test products and a modified formulation 
of Nityr tablets with a higher Compritol 888 content however the stability of aged Nityr (stored at 40°C/75% 
RH for more than 6 months) was explored better in the pivotal study.   
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 37/42 
 
  
  
The justification for a biowaiver for the 2 mg and 5 mg strengths was not accepted and the applicant has 
withdrawn the 2mg and 5mg tablets for marketing authorisation and therefore authorisation for the 10mg 
tablet strength only is accepted. The product information has also been updated accordingly to reflect this. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 38/42 
 
  
  
 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Activity/Study 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
Status Planned, 
Date for 
title (type of 
activity, study 
title [if known] 
category 1-3) 
addressed 
started,   
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Post-approval 
To evaluate the 
Long-term safety of 
Planned 
Planned Interim 
surveillance study 
long-term safety of 
Nitisinone tablets 
(PASS)/ Nitisinone 
Nitisinone tablets in 
and to monitor its 
Tablets for 
Hereditary 
the treatment of 
safety profile during 
HT-1 and monitor 
pregnancy. 
Tyrosinemia type 1 
its safety profile 
(HT-1) in Canada 
during pregnancy 
 Category 3 
update (if the study 
is started) to be 
included in ASR to 
Health Canada in 
December 2019 
Risk minimisation measures 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.4 is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 39/42 
 
  
  
 
 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Orfadin capsules. The bridging report submitted by the 
applicant has been found acceptable. 
2.7.2.  Labelling exemptions 
A request to omit certain particulars from the immediate label (bottle label above 10 ml) has been 
submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable by the QRD Group because of space constraint 
(especially for the multilingual label). 
The particulars agreed to be printed on the bottle label are: Invented name, strength, pharmaceutical 
form, INN, route of administration, ‘contains lactose’, MAH, EXP and Lot, special storage condition, shelf-
life after first opening and content by unit.  
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of nitisinone tablets. The reference product Orfadin is indicated for 
treatment of Hereditary Tyrosinemia Type 1.  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient.  
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview 
on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a cross over design. The study design was considered 
adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European 
requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling times as well as wash-out period were 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 40/42 
 
  
  
adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were also 
adequate. 
The test formulation of 10 mg Nityr applied product met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the 10mg Orfadin capsule formulation reference product. The point estimates and their 90% 
confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-
defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was 
demonstrated.  
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded for the 10 mg strength 
tablet of Nityr. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Nityr 10 mg is favourable in the following indication: 
Treatment of adult and paediatric patients with confirmed diagnosis of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-
1) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 41/42 
 
  
  
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Not applicable. 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/413721/2018 
Page 42/42 
 
  
  
 
