ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion  
Each ml of solution for injection or infusion contains 60 million units [MU] (600 micrograms [mcg]) 
of filgrastim*. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 12 million units (MU) (120 micrograms [mcg]) of filgrastim in 0.2 ml 
(0.6 mg/ml). 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Each ml of solution for injection or infusion contains 60 million units [MU] (600 micrograms [mcg]) 
of filgrastim*. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 million units (MU) (300 micrograms [mcg]) of filgrastim in 0.5 ml 
(0.6 mg/ml). 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Each ml of solution for injection or infusion contains 96 million units [MU] (960 micrograms [mcg]) 
of filgrastim*. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 48 million units (MU) (480 micrograms [mcg]) of filgrastim in 0.5 ml 
(0.96 mg/ml). 
*recombinant methionyl granulocyte colony-stimulating factor G-CSF produced in Escherichia coli 
(BL21) by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each ml of solution contains 50 mg of sorbitol (E420) (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection/infusion (injection/infusion). 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Filgrastim is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the 
exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the reduction in the 
duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow 
transplantation considered to be at increased risk of prolonged severe neutropenia. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim are similar in adults and children receiving cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. 
Filgrastim is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs). 
In patients, children or adults, with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 × 109/L, and a history of severe or recurrent infections, long 
term administration of filgrastim is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to reduce the incidence 
and duration of infection-related events. 
Filgrastim is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal to 
1.0 × 109/L) in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial infections 
when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Filgrastim therapy should only be given in collaboration with an oncology centre which has experience 
in G-CSF treatment and haematology and has the necessary diagnostic facilities. The mobilisation and 
apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration with an oncology-haematology centre with 
acceptable experience in this field and where the monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be 
correctly performed. 
Established cytotoxic chemotherapy 
Posology 
The recommended dose of filgrastim is 0.5 MU (5 mcg)/kg/day. The first dose of filgrastim should be 
administered at least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. In randomised clinical trials, a 
subcutaneous dose of 230 µg/m2/day (4.0 to 8.4 mcg/kg/day) was used. 
Daily dosing with filgrastim should continue until the expected neutrophil nadir is passed and the 
neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. Following established chemotherapy for solid 
tumours, lymphomas, and lymphoid leukaemia, it is expected that the duration of treatment required to 
fulfil these criteria will be up to 14 days. Following induction and consolidation treatment for acute 
myeloid leukaemia the duration of treatment may be substantially longer (up to 38 days) depending on 
the type, dose and schedule of cytotoxic chemotherapy used.  
In patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, a transient increase in neutrophil counts is typically seen 
1 to 2 days after initiation of filgrastim therapy. However, for a sustained therapeutic response, 
filgrastim therapy should not be discontinued before the expected nadir has passed and the neutrophil 
count has recovered to the normal range. Premature discontinuation of filgrastim therapy, prior to the 
time of the expected neutrophil nadir, is not recommended.  
Method of administration 
Filgrastim may be given as a daily subcutaneous injection or as a daily intravenous infusion diluted in 
5% glucose solution given over 30 minutes (see section 6.6). The subcutaneous route is preferred in 
most cases. There is some evidence from a study of single dose administration that intravenous dosing 
may shorten the duration of effect. The clinical relevance of this finding to multiple dose 
administration is not clear. The choice of route should depend on the individual clinical circumstance. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients treated with myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow transplantation 
Posology 
The recommended starting dose of filgrastim is 1.0 MU (10 mcg)/kg/day. The first dose of filgrastim 
should be administered at least 24 hours following cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least 24 hours after 
bone marrow infusion.  
Once the neutrophil nadir has been passed, the daily dose of filgrastim should be titrated against the 
neutrophil response as follows:  
Neutrophil count 
> 1.0 × 109/L for 3 consecutive days 
Then, if ANC remains > 1.0 × 109/L for 3 more 
consecutive days 
If the ANC decreases to < 1.0 × 109/L during the treatment period the dose of filgrastim should be 
re-escalated according to the above steps 
Filgrastim dose adjustment 
Reduce to 0.5 MU (5 mcg)/kg/day 
Discontinue filgrastim  
ANC = absolute neutrophil count 
Method of administration 
Filgrastim may be given as a 30 minute or 24 hour intravenous infusion or given by continuous 
24 hour subcutaneous infusion. Filgrastim should be diluted in 20 ml of 5% glucose solution (see 
section 6.6).  
For the mobilisation of PBPCs in patients undergoing myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy 
followed by autologous PBPC transplantation 
Posology 
The recommended dose of filgrastim for PBPC mobilisation when used alone is 1.0 MU 
(10 mcg)/kg/day for 5 to 7 consecutive days. Timing of leukapheresis: one or two leukapheresis on 
days 5 and 6 are often sufficient. In other circumstances, additional leukapheresis may be necessary. 
Filgrastim dosing should be maintained until the last leukapheresis.  
The recommended dose of filgrastim for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy is 
0.5 MU (5 mcg)/kg/day from the first day after completion of chemotherapy until the expected 
neutrophil nadir is passed and the neutrophil count has recovered to the normal range. Leukapheresis 
should be performed during the period when the ANC rises from < 0.5 × 109/L to > 5.0 × 109/L. For 
patients who have not had extensive chemotherapy, one leukapheresis is often sufficient. In other 
circumstances, additional leukapheresis is recommended.  
Method of administration 
Filgrastim for PBPC mobilisation when used alone: 
Filgrastim may be given as a 24 hour subcutaneous continuous infusion or subcutaneous injection. For 
infusions filgrastim should be diluted in 20 ml of 5% glucose solution (see section 6.6). 
Filgrastim for PBPC mobilisation after myelosuppressive chemotherapy: 
Filgrastim should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC transplantation 
Posology 
For PBPC mobilisation in normal donors, filgrastim should be administered at 1.0 MU 
(10 mcg)/kg/day for 4 to 5 consecutive days. Leukapheresis should be started at day 5 and continued 
until day 6 if needed in order to collect 4 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg recipient bodyweight.  
Method of administration 
Filgrastim should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) 
Posology 
Congenital neutropenia: The recommended starting dose is 1.2 MU (12 mcg)/kg/day as a single dose 
or in divided doses.  
Idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia: The recommended starting dose is 0.5 MU (5 mcg)/kg/day as a single 
dose or in divided doses.  
Dose adjustment: Filgrastim should be administered daily by subcutaneous injection until the 
neutrophil count has reached and can be maintained at more than 1.5 × 109/L. When the response has 
been obtained the minimal effective dose to maintain this level should be established. Long term daily 
administration is required to maintain an adequate neutrophil count. After one to two weeks of therapy, 
the initial dose may be doubled or halved depending upon the patient's response. Subsequently the 
dose may be individually adjusted every 1 to 2 weeks to maintain the average neutrophil count 
between 1.5 × 109/L and 10 × 109/L. A faster schedule of dose escalation may be considered in 
patients presenting with severe infections. In clinical trials, 97% of patients who responded had a 
complete response at doses ≤ 24 mcg/kg/day. The long-term safety of filgrastim administration above 
24 mcg/kg/day in patients with SCN has not been established.  
Method of administration 
Congenital, idiopathic or cyclic neutropenia: Filgrastim should be given by subcutaneous injection. 
In patients with HIV infection 
Posology 
For reversal of neutropenia: 
The recommended starting dose of filgrastim is 0.1 MU (1 mcg)/kg/day with titration up to a 
maximum of 0.4 MU (4 mcg)/kg/day until a normal neutrophil count is reached and can be maintained 
(ANC > 2.0 × 109/L). In clinical studies, > 90% of patients responded at these doses, achieving 
reversal of neutropenia in a median of 2 days.  
In a small number of patients (< 10%), doses up to 1.0 MU (10 mcg)/kg/day were required to achieve 
reversal of neutropenia.  
For maintaining normal neutrophil counts: 
When reversal of neutropenia has been achieved, the minimal effective dose to maintain a normal 
neutrophil count should be established. Initial dose adjustment to alternate day dosing with 30 MU 
(300 mcg)/day is recommended. Further dose adjustment may be necessary, as determined by the 
patient's ANC, to maintain the neutrophil count at > 2.0 × 109/L. In clinical studies, dosing with 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 MU (300 mcg)/day on 1 to 7 days per week was required to maintain the ANC > 2.0 × 109/L, with 
the median dose frequency being 3 days per week. Long term administration may be required to 
maintain the ANC > 2.0 × 109/L. 
Method of administration 
Reversal of neutropenia or maintaining normal neutrophil counts: filgrastim should be given by 
subcutaneous injection. 
Elderly 
Clinical trials with filgrastim have included a small number of elderly patients but special studies have 
not been performed in this group and therefore specific dosage recommendations cannot be made.  
Renal or hepatic impairment 
Studies of filgrastim in patients with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function demonstrate that it 
exhibits a similar pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile to that seen in normal individuals. 
Dose adjustment is not required in these circumstances.  
Paediatric use in the SCN and cancer settings 
Sixty-five percent of the patients studied in the SCN trial program were under 18 years of age. The 
efficacy of treatment was clear for this age group, which included most patients with congenital 
neutropenia. There were no differences in the safety profiles for paediatric patients treated for SCN.  
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults and children receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy.  
The dosage recommendations in paediatric patients are the same as those in adults receiving 
myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
Special warnings and precautions across indications 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reactions, occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have 
been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. Permanently discontinue filgrastim in patients with 
clinically significant hypersensitivity. Do not administer filgrastim to patients with a history of 
hypersensitivity to filgrastim or pegfilgrastim.  
Pulmonary adverse effects 
Pulmonary adverse effects, in particular interstitial lung disease, have been reported after G-CSF 
administration. Patients with a recent history of lung infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher risk. 
The onset of pulmonary signs, such as cough, fever and dyspnoea in association with radiological 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
signs of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in pulmonary function may be preliminary signs of 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Filgrastim should be discontinued and appropriate 
treatment given. 
Glomerulonephritis 
Glomerulonephritis has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim and pegfilgrastim. Generally, 
events of glomerulonephritis resolved after dose reduction or withdrawal of filgrastim and 
pegfilgrastim. Urinalysis monitoring is recommended. 
Capillary leak syndrome 
Capillary leak syndrome, which can be life-threatening if treatment is delayed, has been reported after 
granulocyte-colony stimulating factor administration, and is characterised by hypotension, 
hypoalbuminaemia, oedema and haemoconcentration. Patients who develop symptoms of capillary 
leak syndrome should be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may 
include a need for intensive care (see section 4.8). 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Generally asymptomatic cases of splenomegaly and cases of splenic rupture have been reported in 
patients and normal donors following administration of filgrastim. Some cases of splenic rupture were 
fatal. Therefore, spleen size should be carefully monitored (e.g. clinical examination, ultrasound). A 
diagnosis of splenic rupture should be considered in donors and/or patients reporting left upper 
abdominal or shoulder tip pain. Dose reductions of filgrastim have been noted to slow or stop the 
progression of splenic enlargement in patients with severe chronic neutropenia, and in 3% of patients a 
splenectomy was required. 
Malignant cell growth 
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor can promote growth of myeloid cells in vitro and similar effects 
may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro.  
Myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myeloid leukaemia 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, or 
chronic myelogenous leukaemia have not been established. Filgrastim is not indicated for use in these 
conditions. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of 
chronic myeloid leukaemia from acute myeloid leukaemia.  
Acute myeloid leukaemia 
In view of limited safety and efficacy data in patients with secondary AML, filgrastim should be 
administered with caution. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in de novo AML 
patients aged < 55 years with good cytogenetics (t(8;21), t(15;17), and inv(16)) have not been 
established.  
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia has been reported in patients receiving filgrastim. Platelet counts should be 
monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks of filgrastim therapy. Consideration should be 
given to temporary discontinuation or dose reduction of filgrastim in patients with severe chronic 
neutropenia who develop thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 100 × 109/L).  
Leucocytosis 
White blood cell counts of 100 × 109/L or greater have been observed in less than 5% of cancer 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients receiving filgrastim at doses above 0.3 MU/kg/day (3 mcg/kg/day). No undesirable effects 
directly attributable to this degree of leucocytosis have been reported. However, in view of the 
potential risks associated with severe leucocytosis, a white blood cell count should be performed at 
regular intervals during filgrastim therapy. If leucocyte counts exceed 50 × 109/L after the expected 
nadir, filgrastim should be discontinued immediately. When administered for PBPC mobilisation, 
filgrastim should be discontinued or its dosage should be reduced if the leucocyte counts rise to 
> 70 × 109/L.  
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Rate of generation of 
antibodies against filgrastim is generally low. Binding antibodies do occur as expected with all 
biologics; however, they have not been associated with neutralising activity at present. 
Aortitis 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases, aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF (see section 4.8).  
Special warnings and precautions associated with co-morbidities 
Special precautions in sickle cell trait and sickle cell disease 
Sickle cell crises, in some cases fatal, have been reported with the use of filgrastim in patients with 
sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. Physicians should use caution when prescribing filgrastim in 
patients with sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease. 
Osteoporosis 
Monitoring of bone density may be indicated in patients with underlying osteoporotic bone diseases 
who undergo continuous therapy with filgrastim for more than 6 months. 
Special precautions in cancer patients 
Filgrastim should not be used to increase the dose of cytotoxic chemotherapy beyond established 
dosage regimens. 
Risks associated with increased doses of chemotherapy 
Special caution should be used when treating patients with high dose chemotherapy, because improved 
tumour outcome has not been demonstrated and intensified doses of chemotherapeutic agents may lead 
to increased toxicities including cardiac, pulmonary, neurologic, and dermatologic effects (please refer 
to the prescribing information of the specific chemotherapy agents used).  
Effect of chemotherapy on erythrocytes and thrombocytes 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Because of the potential of receiving higher doses of chemotherapy 
(e.g. full doses on the prescribed schedule) the patient may be at greater risk of thrombocytopenia and 
anaemia. Regular monitoring of platelet count and haematocrit is recommended. Special care should 
be taken when administering single or combination chemotherapeutic agents which are known to cause 
severe thrombocytopenia.  
The use of filgrastim-mobilised PBPCs has been shown to reduce the depth and duration of 
thrombocytopenia following myelosuppressive or myeloablative chemotherapy.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia in breast and lung cancer patients 
In the post-marketing observational study setting, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) have been associated with the use of pegfilgrastim, an alternative G-CSF 
medicine, in conjunction with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy in breast and lung cancer patients. A 
similar association between filgrastim and MDS/AML has not been observed. Nonetheless, patients 
with breast cancer and patients with lung cancer should be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
MDS/AML. 
Other special precautions  
The effects of filgrastim in patients with substantially reduced myeloid progenitors have not been 
studied. Filgrastim acts primarily on neutrophil precursors to exert its effect in elevating neutrophil 
counts. Therefore, in patients with reduced precursors neutrophil response may be diminished (such as 
those treated with extensive radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or those with bone marrow infiltration by 
tumour).  
Vascular disorders, including veno-occlusive disease and fluid volume disturbances, have been 
reported occasionally in patients undergoing high dose chemotherapy followed by transplantation. 
There have been reports of graft versus host disease (GvHD) and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF 
after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).  
Increased haematopoietic activity of the bone marrow in response to growth factor therapy has been 
associated with transient abnormal bone scans. This should be considered when interpreting 
bone-imaging results.  
Special precautions in patients undergoing PBPC mobilisation 
Mobilisation 
There are no prospectively randomised comparisons of the two recommended mobilisation methods 
(filgrastim alone, or in combination with myelosuppressive chemotherapy) within the same patient 
population. The degree of variation between individual patients and between laboratory assays of 
CD34+ cells mean that direct comparison between different studies is difficult. It is therefore difficult 
to recommend an optimum method. The choice of mobilisation method should be considered in 
relation to the overall objectives of treatment for an individual patient.  
Prior exposure to cytotoxic agents 
Patients who have undergone very extensive prior myelosuppressive therapy may not show sufficient 
mobilisation of PBPC to achieve the recommended minimum yield (≥ 2.0 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg) or 
acceleration of platelet recovery, to the same degree.  
Some cytotoxic agents exhibit particular toxicities to the haematopoietic progenitor pool, and may 
adversely affect progenitor mobilisation. Agents such as melphalan, carmustine (BCNU), and 
carboplatin, when administered over prolonged periods prior to attempts at progenitor mobilisation 
may reduce progenitor yield. However, the administration of melphalan, carboplatin or BCNU 
together with filgrastim has been shown to be effective for progenitor mobilisation. When a PBPC 
transplantation is envisaged it is advisable to plan the stem cell mobilisation procedure early in the 
treatment course of the patient. Particular attention should be paid to the number of progenitors 
mobilised in such patients before the administration of high-dose chemotherapy. If yields are 
inadequate, as measured by the criteria above, alternative forms of treatment, not requiring progenitor 
support should be considered.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment of progenitor cell yields 
In assessing the number of progenitor cells harvested in patients treated with filgrastim, particular 
attention should be paid to the method of quantitation. The results of flow cytometric analysis of 
CD34+ cell numbers vary depending on the precise methodology used and recommendations of 
numbers based on studies in other laboratories need to be interpreted with caution.  
Statistical analysis of the relationship between the number of CD34+ cells re-infused and the rate of 
platelet recovery after high-dose chemotherapy indicates a complex but continuous relationship.  
The recommendation of a minimum yields of ≥ 2.0 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg is based on published 
experience resulting in adequate haematologic reconstitution. Yields in excess of this appear to 
correlate with more rapid recovery, those below with slower recovery.  
Special precautions in normal donors undergoing PBPC mobilisation 
Mobilisation of PBPC does not provide a direct clinical benefit to normal donors and should only be 
considered for the purposes of allogeneic stem cell transplantation.  
PBPC mobilisation should be considered only in donors who meet normal clinical and laboratory 
eligibility criteria for stem cell donation with special attention to haematological values and infectious 
disease.  
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim have not been assessed in normal donors < 16 years or > 60 years.  
Transient thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 × 109/L) following filgrastim administration and 
leukapheresis was observed in 35% of subjects studied. Among these, two cases of platelets 
< 50 × 109/L were reported and attributed to the leukapheresis procedure.  
If more than one leukapheresis is required, particular attention should be paid to donors with platelets 
< 100 × 109/L prior to leukapheresis; in general apheresis should not be performed if platelets 
< 75 × 109/L.  
Leukapheresis should not be performed in donors who are anticoagulated or who have known defects 
in haemostasis.  
Donors who receive G-CSFs for PBPC mobilisation should be monitored until haematological indices 
return to normal.  
Transient cytogenetic abnormalities have been observed in normal donors following G-CSF use. The 
significance of these changes is unknown. Nevertheless, a risk of promotion of a malignant myeloid 
clone cannot be excluded. It is recommended that the apheresis centre perform a systematic record and 
tracking of the stem cell donors for at least 10 years to ensure monitoring of long-term safety.  
Special precautions in recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim 
Current data indicate that immunological interactions between the allogeneic PBPC graft and the 
recipient may be associated with an increased risk of acute and chronic GvHD when compared with 
bone marrow transplantation.  
Special precautions in SCN patients 
Filgrastim should not be administered to patients with severe congenital neutropenia who develop 
leukaemia or have evidence of leukaemic evolution. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood cell counts 
Other blood cell changes occur, including anaemia and transient increases in myeloid progenitors, 
which require close monitoring of cell counts.  
Transformation to leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndrome 
Special care should be taken in the diagnosis of SCNs to distinguish them from other haematopoietic 
disorders such as aplastic anaemia, myelodysplasia, and myeloid leukaemia. Complete blood cell 
counts with differential and platelet counts, and an evaluation of bone marrow morphology and 
karyotype should be performed prior to treatment.  
There was a low frequency (approximately 3%) of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or leukaemia in 
clinical trial patients with SCN treated with filgrastim. This observation has only been made in patients 
with congenital neutropenia. MDS and leukaemias are natural complications of the disease and are of 
uncertain relation to filgrastim therapy. A subset of approximately 12% of patients who had normal 
cytogenetic evaluations at baseline were subsequently found to have abnormalities, including 
monosomy 7, on routine repeat evaluation. It is currently unclear whether long-term treatment of 
patients with SCN will predispose patients to cytogenetic abnormalities, MDS or leukaemic 
transformation. It is recommended to perform morphologic and cytogenetic bone marrow 
examinations in patients at regular intervals (approximately every 12 months).  
Other special precautions  
Causes of transient neutropenia, such as viral infections should be excluded.  
Haematuria was common and proteinuria occurred in a small number of patients. Regular urinalysis 
should be performed to monitor these events.  
The safety and efficacy in neonates and patients with autoimmune neutropenia have not been 
established. 
Special precautions in patients with HIV infection 
Blood cell counts 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be monitored closely, especially during the first few weeks 
of filgrastim therapy. Some patients may respond very rapidly and with a considerable increase in 
neutrophil count to the initial dose of filgrastim. It is recommended that the ANC is measured daily for 
the first 2-3 days of filgrastim administration. Thereafter, it is recommended that the ANC is measured 
at least twice per week for the first two weeks and subsequently once per week or once every other 
week during maintenance therapy. During intermittent dosing with 30 MU (300 mcg)/day of 
filgrastim, there can be wide fluctuations in the patient's ANC over time. In order to determine a 
patient's trough or nadir ANC, it is recommended that blood samples are taken for ANC measurement 
immediately prior to any scheduled dosing with filgrastim.  
Risk associated with increased doses of myelosuppressive medicinal products 
Treatment with filgrastim alone does not preclude thrombocytopenia and anaemia due to 
myelosuppressive medications. As a result of the potential to receive higher doses or a greater number 
of these medications with filgrastim therapy, the patient may be at higher risk of developing 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia. Regular monitoring of blood counts is recommended (see above).  
Infections and malignancies causing myelosuppression 
Neutropenia may be due to bone marrow infiltrating opportunistic infections such as Mycobacterium 
avium complex or malignancies such as lymphoma. In patients with known bone marrow infiltrating 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infections or malignancy, consider appropriate therapy for treatment of the underlying condition, in 
addition to administration of filgrastim for treatment of neutropenia. The effects of filgrastim on 
neutropenia due to bone marrow infiltrating infection or malignancy have not been well established.  
All patients 
Nivestim contains sorbitol (E420). Patients with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) must not be 
given this medicine unless strictly necessary. 
Babies and young children (below 2 years of age) may not yet be diagnosed with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI). Medicines (containing sorbitol/fructose) given intravenously may be 
life-threatening and should be contraindicated in this population unless there is an overwhelming 
clinical need and no alternatives are available.  
A detailed history with regard to HFI symptoms has to be taken of each patient prior to being given 
this medicinal product.  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.6 mg/ml or 0.96 mg/ml dose, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim given on the same day as myelosuppressive cytotoxic 
chemotherapy have not been definitively established. In view of the sensitivity of rapidly dividing 
myeloid cells to myelosuppressive cytotoxic chemotherapy, the use of filgrastim is not recommended 
in the period from 24 hours before to 24 hours after chemotherapy. Preliminary evidence from a small 
number of patients treated concomitantly with filgrastim and 5-Fluorouracil indicates that the severity 
of neutropenia may be exacerbated.  
Possible interactions with other haematopoietic growth factors and cytokines have not yet been 
investigated in clinical trials.  
Since lithium promotes the release of neutrophils, lithium is likely to potentiate the effect of filgrastim. 
Although this interaction has not been formally investigated, there is no evidence that such an 
interaction is harmful.  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of filgrastim in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity. An increased incidence of embryo loss has been observed 
in rabbits at high multiples of the clinical exposure and in the presence of maternal toxicity (see 
section 5.3). There are reports in the literature where the transplacental passage of filgrastim in 
pregnant women has been demonstrated.  
Filgrastim is not recommended during pregnancy.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether filgrastim/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue/abstain from filgrastim therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for 
the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
Filgrastim did not affect reproductive performance or fertility in male or female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nivestim may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur 
following the administration of filgrastim (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
a. 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most serious adverse reactions that may occur during filgrastim treatment include: anaphylactic 
reaction, serious pulmonary adverse events (including interstitial pneumonia and ARDS), capillary 
leak syndrome, severe splenomegaly/splenic rupture, transformation to myelodysplastic syndrome or 
leukaemia in SCN patients, GvHD in patients receiving allogeneic bone marrow transfer or peripheral 
blood cell progenitor cell transplant and sickle cell crisis in patients with sickle cell disease. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are pyrexia, musculoskeletal pain (which includes 
bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal 
chest pain, neck pain), anaemia, vomiting, and nausea. In clinical trials in cancer patients 
musculoskeletal pain was mild or moderate in 10%, and severe in 3% of patients.  
b. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The data in the table below describe adverse reactions reported from clinical trials and spontaneous 
reporting. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Adverse reactions 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000) 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10) 
Sepsis 
Bronchitis 
Upper 
respiratory 
tract infection 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Thrombocytopenia 
Splenomegalya 
Leucocytosisa  
Splenic rupturea 
Anaemiae 
Haemoglobin 
decreasede 
Sickle cell anaemia 
with crisis 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Drug 
hypersensitivitya 
Graft versus 
host diseaseb 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Adverse reactions 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10) 
Decreased 
appetitee 
Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase 
increased 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100) 
Hyperuricaemia 
Blood uric acid 
increased 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000) 
Blood glucose 
decreased 
Pseudogouta 
(Chondrocalcinosis 
Pyrophosphate) 
Fluid volume 
disturbances 
Insomnia 
Headachea 
Dizziness 
Hypoaesthesia 
Paraesthesia 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
Veno-occlusive 
diseased 
Capillary leak 
syndromea 
Aortitis 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class 
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Haemoptysis 
Dyspnoea 
Cougha 
Acute 
respiratory 
distress 
syndromea 
Oropharyngeal 
paina,e 
Respiratory 
failurea 
Pulmonary 
oedemaa 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage  
Interstitial lung 
diseasea 
Lung 
infiltrationa 
Hypoxia 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Gamma-
glutamyl 
transferase 
increased 
Epistaxis 
Oral pain  
Constipatione 
Hepatomegaly 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased 
14 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Diarrhoeaa,e 
Vomitinga,e 
Nauseaa 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA 
system organ 
class 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Very common 
(≥ 1/10) 
Alopeciaa 
Adverse reactions 
Common 
(≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10) 
Rasha 
Erythema 
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100) 
Rash maculo-
papular 
Musculoskeletal 
painc 
Muscle 
spasms 
Osteoporosis 
Rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000) 
Cutaneous vasculitisa 
Sweets syndrome 
(acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis) 
Bone density 
decreased  
Exacerbation of 
rheumatoid arthritis 
Dysuria 
Proteinuria 
Glomerulonephritis 
Haematuria 
Urine abnormality 
Injection site 
reaction 
Fatiguea 
Chest paina 
Mucosal 
inflammationa 
Pyrexia 
Paina 
Astheniaa 
Malaisee 
Oedema 
peripherale 
Transfusion 
reactione 
a   See section c (Description of selected adverse reactions). 
b   There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (see 
c  
section c). 
Includes bone pain, back pain, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal 
chest pain, neck pain. 
d   Cases were observed in the post-marketing setting in patients undergoing bone marrow transplant or PBPC 
mobilisation. 
e   Adverse events with higher incidence in filgrastim patients compared to placebo and associated with the 
sequelae of the underlying malignancy or cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
c. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity-type reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, urticaria, angioedema, dyspnoea and 
hypotension occurring on initial or subsequent treatment have been reported in clinical studies and in 
post-marketing experience. Overall, reports were more common after IV administration. In some 
cases, symptoms have recurred with rechallenge, suggesting a causal relationship. Filgrastim should be 
permanently discontinued in patients who experience a serious allergic reaction. 
Pulmonary adverse events 
In clinical studies and the post-marketing setting pulmonary adverse effects including interstitial lung 
disease, pulmonary oedema, and lung infiltration have been reported in some cases with an outcome of 
respiratory failure or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which may be fatal (see section 
4.4). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Splenomegaly and splenic rupture 
Cases of splenomegaly and splenic rupture have been reported following administration of filgrastim. 
Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal (see section 4.4).  
Capillary leak syndrome  
Cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor use. 
These have generally occurred in patients with advanced malignant diseases, sepsis, taking multiple 
chemotherapy medications or undergoing apheresis (see section 4.4). 
Cutaneous vasculitis 
Cutaneous vasculitis has been reported in patients treated with filgrastim. The mechanism of vasculitis 
in patients receiving filgrastim is unknown. During long-term use cutaneous vasculitis has been 
reported in 2% of SCN patients. 
Leucocytosis 
Leucocytosis (WBC > 50 × 109/L) was observed in 41% of normal donors and transient 
thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 × 109/L) following filgrastim and leukapheresis was observed in 
35% of donors (see section 4.4). 
Sweets syndrome 
Cases of Sweets syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis) have been reported in patients 
treated with filgrastim.  
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate)  
Pseudogout (chondrocalcinosis pyrophosphate) has been reported in patients with cancer treated with 
filgrastim.  
GvHD 
There have been reports of GvHD and fatalities in patients receiving G-CSF after allogeneic bone 
marrow transplantation (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
d. 
Paediatric population 
Data from clinical studies in paediatric patients indicate that the safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in both adults and children receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy suggesting no age-related 
differences in the pharmacokinetics of filgrastim. The only consistently reported adverse event was 
musculoskeletal pain‚ which is no different from the experience in the adult population. 
There is insufficient data to further evaluate filgrastim use in paediatric subjects.  
e. 
Other special populations 
Geriatric use 
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects over 65 years of age 
compared to younger adult (> 18 years of age) subjects receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy and clinical 
experience has not identified differences in the responses between elderly and younger adult patients. 
There is insufficient data to evaluate filgrastim use in geriatric subjects for other approved filgrastim 
indications. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric SCN patients 
Cases of decreased bone density and osteoporosis have been reported in paediatric patients with severe 
chronic neutropenia receiving chronic treatment with filgrastim.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The effects of filgrastim overdosage have not been established. 
Discontinuation of filgrastim therapy usually results in a 50% decrease in circulating neutrophils 
within 1 to 2 days, with a return to normal levels in 1 to 7 days. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cytokines, ATC code: L03AA02  
Nivestim is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Human G-CSF is a glycoprotein which regulates the production and release of functional neutrophils 
from the bone marrow. Nivestim containing r-metHuG-CSF (filgrastim) causes marked increases in 
peripheral blood neutrophil counts within twenty four hours, with minor increases in monocytes. In 
some SCN patients filgrastim can also induce a minor increase in the number of circulating eosinophils 
and basophils relative to baseline; some of these patients may present with eosinophilia or basophilia 
already prior to treatment. Elevations of neutrophil counts are dose dependent at recommended doses. 
Neutrophils produced in response to filgrastim show normal or enhanced function as demonstrated by 
tests of chemotactic and phagocytic function. Following termination of filgrastim therapy, circulating 
neutrophil counts decrease by 50% within 1 to 2 days, and to normal levels within 1 to 7 days.  
Use of filgrastim in patients undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy leads to significant reductions in the 
incidence, severity and duration of neutropenia and febrile neutropenia. Treatment with filgrastim 
significantly reduces the durations of febrile neutropenia, antibiotic use and hospitalisation after 
induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukaemia or myeloablative therapy followed by bone 
marrow transplantation. The incidence of fever and documented infections were not reduced in either 
setting. The duration of fever was not reduced in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed 
by bone marrow transplantation.  
Use of filgrastim, either alone, or after chemotherapy, mobilises haematopoietic progenitor cells into 
the peripheral blood. These autologous PBPCs may be harvested and infused after high dose cytotoxic 
therapy, either in place of, or in addition to bone marrow transplantation. Infusion of PBPC accelerates 
haematopoietic recovery reducing the duration of risk for haemorrhagic complications and the need for 
platelet transfusions.  
Recipients of allogeneic PBPCs mobilised with filgrastim experienced significantly more rapid 
haematological recovery, leading to a significant decrease in time to unsupported platelet recovery 
when compared with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One retrospective European study evaluating the use of G-CSF after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation in patients with acute leukaemias suggested an increase in the risk of GvHD, treatment 
related mortality (TRM) and mortality when G-CSF was administered. In a separate retrospective 
International study in patients with acute and chronic myelogenous leukaemias, no effect on the risk of 
GvHD, TRM and mortality was seen. A meta-analysis of allogeneic transplant studies, including the 
results of nine prospective randomised trials, 8 retrospective studies and 1 case-controlled study, did 
not detect an effect on the risks of acute GvHD, chronic GvHD or early treatment-related mortality. 
Relative Risk (95% CI) of GvHD and TRM 
Following Treatment with G-CSF after Bone Marrow Transplantation 
Publication 
Meta-Analysis (2003)  
European Retrospective 
Study (2004)  
International 
Retrospective Study 
(2006)  
Period of 
Study 
1986 − 
2001a 
1992 − 
2002b 
1995 − 
2000b 
N 
1198 
1789 
2110 
Acute Grade II 
- IV GvHD 
1.08 
(0.87, 1.33) 
1.33 
(1.08, 1.64) 
Chronic 
GvHD 
1.02 
(0.82, 1.26) 
1.29 
(1.02, 1.61) 
TRM 
0.70 
(0.38, 1.31) 
1.73 
(1.30, 2.32) 
1.11 
(0.86, 1.42) 
1.10 
(0.86, 1.39) 
1.26 
(0.95, 1.67) 
a  Analysis includes studies involving BM transplant during this period; some studies used GM-CSF.  
b  Analysis includes patients receiving BM transplant during this period.  
Use of filgrastim for the mobilisation of PBPCs in normal donors prior to allogeneic PBPC 
transplantation 
In normal donors, a 10 mcg/kg/day dose administered subcutaneously for 4 to 5 consecutive days 
allows a collection of ≥ 4 × 106 CD34+ cells/kg recipient body weight in the majority of the donors 
after two leukapheresis. 
Use of filgrastim in patients, children or adults, with SCN (severe congenital, cyclic, and idiopathic 
neutropenia) induces a sustained increase in absolute neutrophil counts in peripheral blood and a 
reduction of infection and related events.  
Use of filgrastim in patients with HIV infection maintains normal neutrophil counts to allow scheduled 
dosing of antiviral and/or other myelosuppressive medication. There is no evidence that patients with 
HIV infection treated with filgrastim show an increase in HIV replication.  
As with other haematopoietic growth factors, G-CSF has shown in vitro stimulating properties on 
human endothelial cells.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
A randomised, open-label, single-dose, comparator-controlled, two-way crossover study in 46 healthy 
volunteers showed that the pharmacokinetic profile of Nivestim was comparable to that of the 
reference product after subcutaneous and intravenous administration. Another randomised, 
double-blind, multiple-dose, comparator-controlled, two-way crossover study in 50 healthy volunteers 
showed that the pharmacokinetic profile of Nivestim was comparable to that of the reference product 
after subcutaneous administration. 
Clearance of filgrastim has been shown to follow first-order pharmacokinetics after both subcutaneous 
and intravenous administration. The serum elimination half-life of filgrastim is approximately 
3.5 hours, with a clearance rate of approximately 0.6 ml/min/kg. Continuous infusion with filgrastim 
over a period of up to 28 days, in patients recovering from autologous bone-marrow transplantation, 
resulted in no evidence of drug accumulation and comparable elimination half-lives. There is a 
positive linear correlation between the dose and the serum concentration of filgrastim, whether 
administered intravenously or subcutaneously. Following subcutaneous administration of 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended doses, serum concentrations were maintained above 10 ng/ml for 8 to 16 hours. The 
volume of distribution in blood is approximately 150 ml/kg. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Filgrastim was studied in repeated dose toxicity studies up to 1 year in duration which revealed 
changes attributable to the expected pharmacological actions including increases in leucocytes, 
myeloid hyperplasia in bone marrow, extramedullary granulopoiesis and splenic enlargement. These 
changes all reversed after discontinuation of treatment. 
Effects of filgrastim on prenatal development have been studied in rats and rabbits. Intravenous 
(80 mcg/kg/day) administration of filgrastim to rabbits during the period of organogenesis was 
maternally toxic and increased spontaneous abortion, post-implantation loss, and decreased mean live 
litter size and foetal weight were observed.  
Based on reported data for another filgrastim product similar to the originator, comparable findings 
plus increased foetal malformations were observed at 100 mcg/kg/day, a maternally toxic dose which 
corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 50-90 times the exposures observed in patients 
treated with the clinical dose of 5 mcg/kg/day. The no observed adverse effect level for embryo-foetal 
toxicity in this study was 10 mcg/kg/day, which corresponded to a systemic exposure of approximately 
3-5 times the exposures observed in patients treated with the clinical dose. 
In pregnant rats, no maternal or foetal toxicity was observed at doses up to 575 mcg/kg/day. Offspring 
of rats administered filgrastim during the peri-natal and lactation periods, exhibited a delay in external 
differentiation and growth retardation (≥ 20 mcg/kg/day) and slightly reduced survival rate 
(100 mcg/kg/day).  
Filgrastim had no observed effect on the fertility of male or female rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid, glacial 
Sodium hydroxide 
Sorbitol (E420) 
Polysorbate 80  
Water for injections  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Nivestim should not be diluted with sodium chloride solutions. 
Diluted filgrastim may be adsorbed to glass and plastic materials unless it is diluted in 5% glucose 
solution (see section 6.6).  
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Pre-filled syringe 
30 months. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After dilution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted solution for infusion has been demonstrated for 
24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless 
dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Accidental exposure to freezing temperatures for up to 24 hours does not affect the stability of 
Nivestim. The frozen pre-filled syringes can be thawed and then refrigerated for future use. If exposure 
has been greater than 24 hours or frozen more than once, then Nivestim should NOT be used.  
Within its shelf-life and for the purpose of ambulatory use, the patient may remove the product from 
the refrigerator and store it at room temperature (not above 25°C) for one single period of up to 15 
days. At the end of this period, the product should not be put back in the refrigerator and should be 
disposed of. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Pre-filled syringe (type I glass), with injection needle (stainless steel) with a needle guard, containing 
0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion.  
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion, Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for 
injection/infusion 
Pre-filled syringe (type I glass), with injection needle (stainless steel) with a needle guard, containing 
0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion. 
Each pre-filled syringe is affixed with a needle closed by a needle cover that contains epoxyprene, a 
derivative of natural rubber latex which may come into contact with the needle. 
Pack sizes of 1, 5, 8 or 10 pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
If required, Nivestim may be diluted in 5% glucose solution.  
Dilution to a final concentration less than 0.2 MU (2 mcg) per ml is not recommended at any time.  
The solution should be visually inspected prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be 
used. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
For patients treated with filgrastim diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 mcg) per ml, human 
serum albumin (HSA) should be added to a final concentration of 2 mg/ml.  
Example: In a final injection volume of 20 ml, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 mcg) 
should be given with 0.2 ml of 20% human albumin solution Ph. Eur. added. 
Nivestim contains no preservative. In view of the possible risk of microbial contamination, Nivestim 
syringes are for single use only. 
When diluted in 5% glucose solution, filgrastim is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics 
including PVC, polyolefin (a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/10/631/001 
EU/1/10/631/002 
EU/1/10/631/003 
EU/1/10/631/004 
EU/1/10/631/005 
EU/1/10/631/006 
EU/1/10/631/007 
EU/1/10/631/008 
EU/1/10/631/009 
EU/1/10/631/010 
EU/1/10/631/011 
EU/1/10/631/012 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 08 June 2010 
Date of latest renewal: 27 May 2015 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o. 
Prudnička cesta 60 
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko 
Croatia 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o. 
Prudnička cesta 60 
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko 
Croatia 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 12 million units (MU) (120 mcg) of filgrastim in 0.2 ml (0.6 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid glacial, sodium hydroxide, polysorbate 80, sorbitol (E420) and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion.  
1 pre-filled syringe with 0.2 ml. 
5 pre-filled syringes with 0.2 ml 
8 pre-filled syringes with 0.2 ml 
10 pre-filled syringes with 0.2 ml.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
For intravenous or subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Needle guard is attached to the pre-filled syringe in order to protect from needle stick injury. See 
package leaflet for direction for use of the needle safe device. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After dilution use within 24 hours. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/10/631/001 
EU/1/10/631/002 
EU/1/10/631/003 
EU/1/10/631/010 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
SC/IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.2 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 30 million units (MU) (300 mcg) of filgrastim in 0.5 ml (0.6 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid glacial, sodium hydroxide, polysorbate 80, sorbitol (E420) and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion.  
1 pre-filled syringe with 0.5 ml 
5 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
8 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
10 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
For intravenous or subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Needle guard is attached to the pre-filled syringe in order to protect from needle stick injury. See 
package leaflet for direction for use of the needle safe device. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After dilution use within 24 hours. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/10/631/004 
EU/1/10/631/005 
EU/1/10/631/006  
EU/1/10/631/011 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
SC/IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 48 million units (MU) (480 mcg) of filgrastim in 0.5 ml (0.96 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Acetic acid glacial, sodium hydroxide, polysorbate 80, sorbitol (E420) and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion.  
1 pre-filled syringe with 0.5 ml 
5 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
8 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
10 pre-filled syringes with 0.5 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
For intravenous or subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Needle guard is attached to the pre-filled syringe in order to protect from needle stick injury. See 
package leaflet for direction for use of the needle safe device. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After dilution use within 24 hours. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/10/631/007 
EU/1/10/631/008 
EU/1/10/631/009 
EU/1/10/631/012 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
SC/IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
filgrastim 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.  
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Nivestim is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Nivestim 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Nivestim 
Possible side effects 
How to store Nivestim 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Nivestim is and what it is used for 
Nivestim is a white blood cell growth factor (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor) and belongs to a 
group of medicines called cytokines. Growth factors are proteins that are produced naturally in the 
body but they can also be made using biotechnology for use as a medicine. Nivestim works by 
encouraging the bone marrow to produce more white blood cells. 
A reduction in the number of white blood cells (neutropenia) can occur for several reasons and makes 
your body less able to fight infection. Nivestim stimulates the bone marrow to produce new white cells 
quickly. 
Nivestim can be used: 
- 
to increase the number of white blood cells after treatment with chemotherapy to help prevent 
infections; 
to increase the number of white blood cells after a bone marrow transplant to help prevent 
infections; 
before high-dose chemotherapy to make the bone marrow produce more stem cells which can be 
collected and given back to you after your treatment. These can be taken from you or from a 
donor. The stem cells will then go back into the bone marrow and produce blood cells; 
to increase the number of white blood cells if you suffer from severe chronic neutropenia to help 
prevent infections; 
in patients with advanced HIV infection which will help reduce the risk of infections. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.  What you need to know before you use Nivestim 
Do not use Nivestim 
- 
if you are allergic to filgrastim or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Nivestim. 
Please tell your doctor before starting treatment if you have: 
- 
- 
sickle cell anaemia, as Nivestim may cause sickle cell crisis. 
osteoporosis (bone disease). 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment with Nivestim, if you: 
• 
have sudden signs of allergy such as rash, itching or hives on the skin, swelling of the face, lips, 
tongue or other parts of the body, shortness of breath, wheezing or trouble breathing as these 
could be signs of a severe allergic reaction (hypersensitivity). 
experience puffiness in your face or ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you 
notice you urinate less than usual (glomerulonephritis). 
get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or at the tip of your left 
shoulder (these may be symptoms of an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), or possibly rupture of 
the spleen). 
notice unusual bleeding or bruising (these may be symptoms of a decrease in blood platelets 
(thrombocytopenia), with a reduced ability of your blood to clot).  
• 
• 
• 
Inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body) 
has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors. The symptoms can include fever, 
abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory markers. Tell your doctor if you 
experience these symptoms.  
Loss of response to filgrastim 
If you experience a loss of response or failure to maintain a response with filgrastim treatment, your 
doctor will investigate the reasons why including whether you have developed antibodies which 
neutralise filgrastim’s activity. 
Your doctor may want to monitor you closely, see section 4 of the package leaflet. 
If you are a patient with severe chronic neutropenia, you may be at risk of developing cancer of the 
blood (leukaemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)). You should talk to your doctor about your risks 
of developing cancers of the blood and what testing should be done. If you develop or are likely to 
develop cancers of the blood, you should not use Nivestim, unless instructed by your doctor. 
If you are a stem cell donor, you must be aged between 16 and 60 years. 
Take special care with other products that stimulate white blood cells 
Nivestim is one of a group of products that stimulate the production of white blood cells. Your 
healthcare professional should always record the exact product you are using. 
Other medicines and Nivestim 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Nivestim has not been tested in pregnant or breast-feeding women.  
Nivestim is not recommended during pregnancy. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important to tell your doctor if you: 
- 
- 
- 
are pregnant or breast-feeding; 
think you may be pregnant; or  
are planning to have a baby.  
If you become pregnant during Nivestim treatment, please inform your doctor.  
Unless your doctor directs you otherwise, you must stop breast-feeding if you use Nivestim.  
Driving and using machines 
Nivestim may have a minor influence on your ability to drive and use machines. This medicine may 
cause dizziness. It is advisable to wait and see how you feel after taking Nivestim and before driving 
or operating machinery. 
Nivestim contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 0.6 mg/ml or 0.96 mg/ml dose, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
Nivestim contains sorbitol 
This medicine contains 50 mg sorbitol in each ml. 
Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If you (or your child) have hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare 
genetic disorder, you (or your child) must not receive this medicine. Patients with HFI cannot break 
down fructose, which may cause serious side effects. 
You must tell your doctor before receiving this medicine if you (or your child) have HFI or if your 
child can no longer take sweet foods or drinks because they feel sick, vomit or get unpleasant effects 
such as bloating, stomach cramps or diarrhoea.  
3. 
How to use Nivestim 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How is Nivestim given and how much should I take? 
Nivestim is usually given as a daily injection into the tissue just under the skin (known as a 
subcutaneous injection). It can also be given as a daily slow injection into the vein (known as an 
intravenous infusion). The usual dose varies depending on your illness and weight. Your doctor will 
tell you how much Nivestim you should take. 
Patients having a bone marrow transplant after chemotherapy: 
You will normally receive your first dose of Nivestim at least 24 hours after your chemotherapy and at 
least 24 hours after receiving your bone marrow transplant. 
You, or people caring for you, can be taught how to give subcutaneous injections so that you can 
continue your treatment at home. However, you should not attempt this unless you have been properly 
trained first by your healthcare provider. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How long will I have to take Nivestim? 
You will need to take Nivestim until your white blood cell count is normal. Regular blood tests will be 
taken to monitor the number of white blood cells in your body. Your doctor will tell you how long you 
will need to take Nivestim. 
Use in children 
Nivestim is used to treat children who are receiving chemotherapy or who suffer from severe low 
white blood cell count (neutropenia). The dosing in children receiving chemotherapy is the same as for 
adults. 
If you use more Nivestim than you should 
Do not increase the dose your doctor has given you. If you think you have injected more than you 
should, contact your doctor as soon as possible. 
If you forget to use Nivestim 
If you have missed an injection, or injected too little, contact your doctor as soon as possible. Do not 
take a double dose to make up for any missed doses. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Please tell your doctor immediately during treatment: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you experience an allergic reaction including weakness, drop in blood pressure, difficulty 
breathing, swelling of the face (anaphylaxis), skin rash, itchy rash (urticaria), swelling of the 
face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat (angioedema) and shortness of breath (dyspnoea). 
if you experience a cough, fever and difficulty breathing (dyspnoea) as this can be a sign of 
Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). 
if you experience kidney injury (glomerulonephritis). Kidney injury has been seen in patients 
who received filgrastim. Call your doctor right away if you experience puffiness in your face or 
ankles, blood in your urine or brown-coloured urine or you notice you urinate less than usual. 
if you have any of the following or combination of the following side effects: 
o 
swelling or puffiness, which may be associated with passing water less frequently, 
difficulty breathing, abdominal swelling and feeling of fullness, and a general feeling of 
tiredness. These symptoms generally develop in a rapid fashion. 
These could be symptoms of a condition called “Capillary Leak Syndrome” which causes blood 
to leak from the small blood vessels into your body and needs urgent medical attention. 
if you have a combination of any of the following symptoms: 
o 
fever, or shivering, or feeling very cold, high heart rate, confusion or disorientation, 
shortness of breath, extreme pain or discomfort and clammy or sweaty skin. 
These could be symptoms of a condition called “sepsis” (also called “blood poisoning”), a 
severe infection with whole-body inflammatory response which can be life threatening and 
needs urgent medical attention. 
if you get left upper belly (abdominal) pain, pain below the left rib cage or pain at the tip of your 
shoulder, as there may be a problem with your spleen (enlargement of the spleen (splenomegaly) 
or rupture of the spleen). 
if you are being treated for severe chronic neutropenia and you have blood in your urine 
(haematuria). Your doctor may regularly test your urine if you experience this side effect or if 
protein is found in your urine (proteinuria). 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A common side effect of filgrastim use is pain in your muscles or bones (musculoskeletal pain), which 
can be helped by taking standard pain relief medicines (analgesics). In patients undergoing a stem cell 
or bone marrow transplant, Graft versus host disease (GvHD) may occur - this is a reaction of the 
donor cells against the patient receiving the transplant; signs and symptoms include rash on the palms 
of your hands or soles of your feet and ulcer and sores in your mouth, gut, liver, skin, or your eyes, 
lungs, vagina and joints.  
In normal stem cell donors, an increase in white blood cells (leucocytosis) and a decrease of platelets 
may be seen. This reduces the ability of your blood to clot (thrombocytopenia). These will be 
monitored by your doctor.  
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decrease of platelets which reduces the ability of blood to clot (thrombocytopenia) 
low red blood cell count (anaemia) 
headache 
diarrhoea 
vomiting 
nausea 
unusual hair loss or thinning (alopecia) 
tiredness (fatigue) 
soreness and swelling of the digestive tract lining which runs from the mouth to the anus 
(mucosal inflammation) 
fever (pyrexia) 
• 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
inflammation of the lung (bronchitis) 
upper respiratory tract infection 
urinary tract infection 
decreased appetite 
trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
dizziness 
decreased feeling of sensitivity, especially in the skin (hypoaesthesia) 
tingling or numbness of the hands or feet (paraesthesia) 
low blood pressure (hypotension) 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
cough 
coughing up blood (haemoptysis) 
pain in your mouth and throat (oropharyngeal pain) 
nose bleeds (epistaxis) 
constipation 
oral pain 
enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) 
rash 
redness of the skin (erythema) 
muscle spasm 
pain when passing urine (dysuria) 
chest pain 
pain 
generalised weakness (asthenia)  
generally feeling unwell (malaise) 
swelling in the hands and feet (oedema peripheral) 
increase of certain enzymes in the blood 
changes in blood chemistry 
transfusion reaction 
40 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increase in white blood cells (leucocytosis) 
allergic reaction (hypersensitivity) 
rejection of transplanted bone marrow (graft versus host disease) 
high uric acid levels in the blood, which may cause gout (hyperuricaemia) (Blood uric acid 
increased) 
liver damage caused by blocking of the small veins within the liver (veno-occlusive disease) 
lungs do not function as they should, causing breathlessness (respiratory failure) 
swelling and/or fluid in the lungs (pulmonary oedema) 
inflammation of the lungs (interstitial lung disease) 
abnormal x-rays of the lungs (lung infiltration) 
bleeding from the lung (pulmonary haemorrhage) 
lack of absorption of oxygen in the lung (hypoxia) 
bumpy skin rash (rash maculo-papular) 
disease which causes bones to become less dense, making them weaker, more brittle and likely 
to break (osteoporosis) 
injection site reaction 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe pain in the bones, chest, gut or joints (sickle cell anaemia with crisis) 
sudden life-threatening allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction) 
pain and swelling of the joints, similar to gout (pseudogout) 
a change in how your body regulates fluids within your body and may result in puffiness (fluid 
volume disturbances) 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) 
plum-coloured, raised, painful sores on the limbs and sometimes the face and neck with a fever 
(Sweets syndrome) 
worsening of rheumatoid arthritis  
unusual change in the urine  
bone density decreased 
inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the 
body), see section 2 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Nivestim 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and on the pre-filled 
syringe after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store and transport refrigerated (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer 
carton in order to protect from light. 
The syringe can be removed from the refrigerator and left at room temperature for a single period of 
maximum 15 days (but not above 25°C). 
Do not use this medicine if you notice it is cloudy or there are particles in it. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nivestim contains 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The active substance is filgrastim. Each ml contains 60 million units [MU] (600 mcg) or 
96 million units [MU] (960 mcg) of filgrastim. 
Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion: each pre-filled syringe contains 
12 million units (MU), 120 mcg of filgrastim in 0.2 ml (corresponding to 0.6 mg/ml). 
Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion: each pre-filled syringe contains 
30 million units (MU), 300 mcg of filgrastim in 0.5 ml (corresponding to 0.6 mg/ml). 
Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion: each pre-filled syringe contains 
48 million units (MU), 480 mcg of filgrastim in 0.5 ml (corresponding to 0.96 mg/ml). 
The other ingredients are acetic acid (glacial), sodium hydroxide, sorbitol E420, polysorbate 80, 
and water for injections. 
What Nivestim looks like and contents of the pack 
Nivestim is a clear colourless solution for injection/infusion in a glass pre-filled syringe with an 
injection needle (stainless steel) with a needle guard. The needle cover contains epoxyprene, a 
derivative of natural rubber latex which may come into contact with the needle. 
There are 1, 5, 8 or 10 syringes in each pack. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Hospira Zagreb d.o.o. 
Prudnička cesta 60 
10291 Prigorje Brdovečko 
Croatia 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel: +370 52 51 4000 
България 
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон 
България 
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 488 37 00 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00 
Deutschland 
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd 
Tel: +356 21 419 070/1/2 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΆΣ A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 6785 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0) 1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer România S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana 
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421–2–3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige 
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Κύπρος 
Pfizer ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch) 
Τηλ: +357 22 817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: + 371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Information on self administration by the patient 
This section contains information on how to give yourself an injection of Nivestim. It is important that 
you do not try to give yourself the injection unless you have received special training from your doctor 
or nurse. It is also important that you dispose of the syringe in a sharps disposal (puncture-proof) 
container. If you are not sure about giving yourself the injection or you have any questions, please ask 
your doctor or nurse for help. 
How do I administer my Nivestim? 
Nivestim is usually given once a day by injection, usually into the tissue just under the skin. This is 
known as a subcutaneous injection. 
Learning to give your own injections will mean that you will not have to wait at home for a nurse to 
call, nor will you have to go to the hospital or clinic every day to receive your injections. 
You will need to have your injections at about the same time every day. The most suitable places for 
injection are: 
• 
• 
the front of the thighs,  
the abdomen, except for the area around the navel.  
It is better to change the injection site every day to avoid the risk of soreness at any one site. 
Equipment required for administration 
To give yourself a subcutaneous injection you will need the following items: 
•  A new pre-filled syringe of Nivestim. 
•  A sharps disposal (puncture proof) container for disposing of used syringes safely. 
•  Antiseptic wipes (if recommended by your doctor or nurse). 
How do I give my subcutaneous Nivestim injection? 
1.  Try to self-inject at approximately the same time every day. 
2.  Remove the carton containing the Nivestim pre-filled syringe from the refrigerator. 
3.  Remove the blister tray containing the pre-filled syringe from the carton. When the carton 
contains blister trays with more than one pre-filled syringe, tear off the blister tray 
containing one pre-filled syringe along the perforated part, and return the rest of the blister 
trays containing pre-filled syringes to the carton and return the carton to the refrigerator. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Open the blister tray containing the pre-filled syringe by peeling away the lid from the 
blister tray. Remove the pre-filled syringe from the blister tray by grasping from the 
syringe body. 
o  Do not grasp the grey needle cover or the plunger rod. 
Check the syringe to make sure that the needle guard is covering the barrel of the 
pre-filled syringe. Do not push the needle guard over the needle cover before the injection. 
This may activate or lock the needle guard. If the needle guard is covering the needle that 
means it has been activated. 
Check that the solution is clear, colourless and practically free from visible particles. Do 
not inspect the product through the plastic of the safety device. 
Check the date on the label to make sure that the medicine has not passed the expiry date.  
Make sure you have your sharps disposal (puncture-proof) container nearby. 
Allow the pre-filled syringe to reach room temperature (approximately 25°C). This will 
take 15-30 minutes. 
o  Do not remove the syringe’s needle cover while allowing the pre-filled syringe to 
reach room temperature. 
o  Do not shake the syringe. 
Needle Guard 
Needle Cover 
1 
2 
3  Medicine 
4 
Plunger Rod 
•  Do not use the Nivestim syringe if: 
o  The carton is open or damaged. 
o  The needle guard is missing, detached or has been activated. 
o  The medicine is cloudy or discoloured or the liquid has particles floating in it. 
o  Any part of the pre-filled syringe appears cracked or broken or any of the liquid 
has leaked out of the syringe. 
o  The pre-filled syringe has been dropped. The pre-filled syringe may be broken 
even if you cannot see the break. 
o  The needle cover is missing or not securely attached. 
o  The expiration date printed on the label has passed. 
In all cases above discard the pre-filled syringe and use a new pre-filled syringe. 
5.  Find a comfortable well-lit working place to give your injection and check the dose that 
you have been prescribed. 
6.  Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Hold the pre-filled syringe by the body of the needle guard with the needle cover pointing 
upwards.  
•  Do not hold by the plunger head, plunger or needle cover. 
•  Do not pull back on the plunger at any time. 
•  Do not remove the needle cover from the pre-filled syringe until you are ready to 
inject your medicine. 
8.  Take the needle cover off the syringe by holding the barrel and pulling the needle cover 
straight off and away from your body carefully without twisting it. Throw away the needle 
cover. Do not recap the needle. Do not push the plunger, touch the needle or shake the 
syringe. 
9.  The syringe is now ready for use. You may notice a small air bubble in the syringe. You 
do not have to remove the air bubble before injecting. Injecting the solution with an air 
bubble present is harmless. 
10.  Decide where to inject Nivestim - find a place on the front of your abdomen or the front of 
your thigh. Choose a different injection site each time. Do not choose an area which is 
tender, red, bruised or scarred. Clean the area of skin with an antiseptic wipe. 
11.  Pinch a large area of skin, taking care not to touch the area you have cleaned. 
12.  With your other hand, hold the pre-filled syringe like you would hold a pencil. Use a quick 
“dart-like” motion to insert the needle at an approximate 45˚ angle into the skin as shown. 
13.  Pull the plunger back slightly to check if any blood appears in the syringe. If you do see 
blood inside the syringe, remove the needle and re-insert it in a different site. Slowly push 
down the plunger until all the contents of the syringe have been emptied. 
14.  After injecting the solution remove the needle from the skin.  
15.  Ensure the needle guard covers the needle according to the instructions for active needle 
guard or passive needle guard below. 
16.  Do not try to replace the needle cover. Place the syringe in a sharps disposal 
(puncture-proof) container. 
•  Keep used syringes out of the reach and sight of children 
•  Never put used syringes into your normal household waste bin. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remember 
Most people can learn to give themselves a subcutaneous injection, but if you are experiencing a lot of 
difficulty, please do not be afraid to ask for help and advice from your doctor or nurse. 
Use of Active UltraSafe Needle Guard for Nivestim 12 MU/0.2 ml solution for injection/infusion 
The pre-filled syringe has an UltraSafe Active Needle Guard attached in order to protect from needle 
stick injury. When handling the pre-filled syringe, keep hands behind the needle. 
1.  Perform the injection using the technique described above. 
2.  When you have completed the injection, slide the needle guard forward until the needle is 
completely covered (device ‘clicks’ into place).  
Use of UltraSafe Passive Needle Guard for Nivestim 30 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
and Nivestim 48 MU/0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion 
The pre-filled syringe has an UltraSafe Passive Needle Guard attached in order to protect from needle 
stick injury. When handling the pre-filled syringe, keep hands behind the needle. 
1.  Perform the injection using the technique described above. 
2.  Depress the plunger while grasping the finger flange until the entire dose has been given. The 
passive needle guard will NOT activate unless the ENTIRE dose has been given. 
3.  Remove the needle from your skin, then let go of the plunger and allow the syringe to move up 
until the entire needle is guarded and locks into place. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS INTENDED FOR MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE 
PROFESSIONALS ONLY: 
Nivestim does not contain any preservative. In view of the possible risk of microbial contamination, 
Nivestim syringes are for single use only. 
Accidental exposure to freezing temperatures for up to 24 hours does not affect the stability of 
Nivestim. The frozen pre-filled syringes can be thawed and then refrigerated for future use. If exposure 
has been greater than 24 hours or frozen more than once, then Nivestim should NOT be used. 
Nivestim must not be diluted with sodium chloride solution. This medicinal product must not be mixed 
with other medicinal products except those mentioned below. Diluted filgrastim may be adsorbed to 
glass and plastic materials except diluted, as mentioned below. 
If required, Nivestim may be diluted in 5% glucose solution. Dilution to a final concentration less than 
0.2 MU (2 mcg) per ml is not recommended at any time. The solution should be visually inspected 
prior to use. Only clear solutions without particles should be used. For patients treated with filgrastim 
diluted to concentrations below 1.5 MU (15 mcg) per ml, human serum albumin (HSA) should be 
added to a final concentration of 2 mg/ml.  
Example: In a final injection volume of 20 ml, total doses of filgrastim less than 30 MU (300 mcg) 
should be given with 0.2 ml of 200 mg/ml (20%) human albumin solution added. When diluted in 5% 
glucose solution, Nivestim is compatible with glass and a variety of plastics including PVC, polyolefin 
(a co-polymer of polypropylene and polyethylene) and polypropylene. 
After dilution: Chemical and physical in-use stability of the diluted solution for infusion has been 
demonstrated for 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should 
be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C, unless 
dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
