27 March 2020 
EMA/94424/2020 
No change is needed in use of direct oral anticoagulants 
following EMA-funded study 
No change to the conditions of use of the direct oral anticoagulants Eliquis (apixaban), Pradaxa 
(dabigatran etexilate) and Xarelto (rivaroxaban) is needed following a review of the results of a 
European study of real-world data for these medicines.  
The study, commissioned by EMA and using real-world data from Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, 
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, assessed the risk of serious bleeding with these 3 medicines 
when used to prevent blood clotting in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid 
contractions of the heart) and compared this with other oral anticoagulants called vitamin K 
antagonists.1,2  
The results were reviewed by EMA’s human medicines committee (CHMP), in consultation with EMA’s 
safety committee (PRAC), and were compared with data from other similar studies and in the 
published literature. 
EMA’s review concluded that the pattern of serious bleeding seen in patients taking Eliquis, Pradaxa 
and Xarelto was similar to that seen in the clinical trials on which the authorisation of the medicines 
were based. The data were not sufficient to allow robust conclusions to be drawn on comparisons 
between the 3 medicines. 
The study also looked at whether the use of the medicines in clinical practice was in line with the 
authorised uses and took into account existing contraindications, warnings and advice on interactions 
with other medicines. EMA concluded that no changes to the product information were warranted, as 
the data did not provide robust evidence of a high level of non-adherence to the authorised product 
information.  
The study results provided further data on the known increased risk of bleeding in older patients (>75 
years). The companies marketing these direct oral anticoagulant medicines will be asked to further 
explore the issue and to investigate whether changes to the recommended doses could be beneficial 
for these patients. 
1 EU PAS register no. 16014: http://www.encepp.eu/encepp/viewResource.htm?id=28664  
2 Ibáñez, L et al. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology. Nov 2019 85: 2524. Incidence of direct oral anticoagulant use in 
patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and characteristics of users in 6 European countries (2008–2015): A cross
national drug utilization study https://bpspubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/bcp.14071 . Two further 
publications in preparation. 
‐
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Information for patients 
•  A study was carried out on the use of the anticoagulant medicines Eliquis (apixaban), Pradaxa 
(dabigatran etexilate) and Xarelto (rivaroxaban). These medicines prevent blood clots in a number 
of situations, including in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Blood clots can cause serious 
problems when they occur in important organs such as the lungs and brain. However, because 
these medicines prevent clotting, bleeding in various parts of the body can be an unwanted side 
effect. 
• 
The study looked at bleeding in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid 
contractions of the heart) treated with one of the 3 medicines and compared with other 
anticoagulant medicines such as warfarin.  
•  EMA has reviewed the results of the study and concluded that the risk of bleeding with the 
medicines was as expected. The study did not show that there was a high level of incorrect use of 
the medicines.  
•  EMA recommends that Eliquis, Pradaxa and Xarelto can continue to be used in the same way as 
they are now by patients and healthcare professionals and there is no need to change the current 
advice for these medicines. 
•  Based on the study results, which show that older patients (>75 years) are at greater risk of 
bleeding, EMA will ask the companies marketing these medicines to explore the issue and 
investigate whether changes to the dosing recommendations for older patients could be beneficial 
for these patients. 
• 
If you have any questions about your medicines, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  A retrospective, non-interventional study using European databases was carried out in 6 countries 
to assess the risk of major bleeding associated with use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) 
when compared to vitamin K antagonists (VKAs), in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. 
The study had been proposed following a workshop held by EMA in 20153 on the clinical use of 
DOACs. 
•  Overall, the new data confirm the bleeding patterns of DOACs versus VKA already observed in 
clinical trials and described in the product information of the medicines. The benefit-risk balance 
remains positive for all three DOACs investigated (apixaban, dabigatran, rivaroxaban) within the 
authorised indications. Comparable results were found in similar studies conducted in Canada and 
the US. 
• 
• 
The study also looked at adherence with sections 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, and 4.5 of the summary of product 
characteristics for the medicines. EMA concluded that the data did not provide robust evidence of a 
high level of non-adherence to the authorised product information. 
There was an observation of increased risk of bleeding in older patients (>75 years). Further 
studies are needed to explore the issue and to determine whether there are differences in risk 
between individual DOACs. The data were not sufficient to recommend dosage changes in this 
population. The companies marketing these medicines will be asked to explore the issue and to 
3 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/events/role-pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic-measurements-use-direct-oral-anticoagulants-doacs  
No change is needed in use of direct oral anticoagulants following EMA-funded study  
EMA/94424/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carry out an analysis to determine whether modification of the dosing recommendations could be 
beneficial for older patients. 
More about the medicine 
The direct oral anticoagulants Eliquis (apixaban), Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) and Xarelto 
(rivaroxaban) are taken by mouth to prevent blood clotting in a number of situations, including in 
patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. They are also used to treat deep vein thrombosis (a blood 
clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary embolism (a clot in a blood vessel supplying the 
lungs), and to prevent these conditions from reoccurring.  
These medicines work by directly blocking a single blood clotting factor in the body; this is why they 
are called ‘direct anticoagulants’ as opposed to other anticoagulants such as warfarin that indirectly 
target various clotting factors. 
More information about these medicines can be found on the EMA website:  
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/pradaxa 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/eliquis 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/xarelto  
More about the procedure 
The review of direct oral anticoagulants was initiated on 31 January 2019 at the request of the EMA 
Executive Director, under Article 5(3) of Regulation 726/2004.  
The review has been carried out by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), 
responsible for questions concerning medicines for human use, which has adopted the Agency’s 
opinion.  
No change is needed in use of direct oral anticoagulants following EMA-funded study  
EMA/94424/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
