Summary of risk management plan for Methotrexate 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for: 
Nordimet® 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 10 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 12.5 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 15 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 17.5 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 20 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 22.5 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet® 25 mg Solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet® 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
Nordimet® 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet® 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Nordimet,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
information will be obtained about the risks and uncertainties (missing information) of using Nordimet. 
The  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  of  Nordimet  and  its  respective  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how these products should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Nordimet should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Nordimet's RMP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Nordimet is indicated for (see SmPCs for the full indications) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients, 
Polyarthritic forms of severe, active juvenile idiopathic arthritis, when the response to 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been inadequate, 
Moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy, and 
severe psoriatic arthritis in adult patients, 
Induction of remission in moderate steroid-dependent Crohn's disease in adult patients, in 
combination with corticosteroids and for maintenance of remission, as monotherapy, in patients 
who have responded to methotrexate. 
Nordimet contains methotrexate as an active substance. Both the prefilled pens and pre-filled syringes 
are administered subcutaneously. Across all authorised formulations, one ml of solution contains 25 mg 
of methotrexate. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Nordimet’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Nordimet’s  EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage : 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/nordimet 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Nordimet, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Nordimet are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
For Nordimet, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization measures mentioned 
under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Nordimet is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Nordimet and Imeth, are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof 
of a link with the use of methotrexate. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Medication errors due to inadvertent daily instead of once 
weekly dosing 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Medication errors due to inadvertent daily instead of once weekly 
dosing  
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
MTX is indicated in the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis, adult 
psoriasis, severe JIA in adolescents and children over 3 years of age, 
and in a number of oncological indications. Compared to dosing for 
antineoplastic  indications,  methotrexate  for  rheumatological  and 
dermatological  diseases  is  administered  once  weekly  as  low-dose 
therapy. Harmful or fatal errors with low-dose oral methotrexate have 
been  reported;  most  errors  involved  accidental  daily  dosing  of  oral 
methotrexate 
for  weekly  administration 
[EMA/215649/2018, 2018; Grissinger, 2018]. The risk of dosing errors 
with  methotrexate  has  been  recognised  for  many  years  and  several 
measures are already in place in some EU countries to reduce this risk.  
All  patients  taking  methotrexate.  However,  patients  who  have 
existing  hepatic  impairment,  renal  disease,  and  other  organ 
toxicities  are  more  prone  to  the  adverse  effects  of  medication 
errors especially if an overdose occurred. 
that  was 
intended 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Boxed warning in section 4.2 of the SmPC 
Warning in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC 
Warning in sections 2 and 3 of the PL 
Restricted medical prescription 
Visual reminder on the outer, intermediate and immediate 
packaging 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
DHPC  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond ADR reporting and 
signal detection  
A targeted follow-up questionnaire for medication errors related 
to overdose 
II.C Post-authorization development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies required for Nordimet. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for either Nordimet. 
 
 
 
 
 
