ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of solution contains 25 mg of methotrexate. 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 7.5 mg methotrexate in 0.3 mL. 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 10 mg methotrexate in 0.4 mL. 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 12.5 mg methotrexate in 0.5 mL. 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 15 mg methotrexate in 0.6 mL. 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 17.5 mg methotrexate in 0.7 mL. 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 20 mg methotrexate in 0.8 mL. 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 22.5 mg methotrexate in 0.9 mL. 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 25 mg methotrexate in 1.0 mL. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 7.5 mg methotrexate in 0.3 mL. 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 10 mg methotrexate in 0.4 mL. 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 12.5 mg methotrexate in 0.5 mL. 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 15 mg methotrexate in 0.6 mL. 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 17.5 mg methotrexate in 0.7 mL. 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg methotrexate in 0.8 mL. 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 22.5 mg methotrexate in 0.9 mL. 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 25 mg methotrexate in 1.0 mL. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear, yellow solution with a pH of 8.0-9.0 and an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm/kg. 
4 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Nordimet is indicated for the treatment of: 
-  
- 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients, 
polyarthritic forms of severe, active juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), when the response to  
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been inadequate,  
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy, and 
severe psoriatic arthritis in adult patients, 
induction of remission in moderate steroid-dependent Crohn's disease in adult patients, in 
combination with corticosteroids and for maintenance of remission, as monotherapy, in 
patients who have responded to methotrexate. 
-  
- 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Methotrexate should only be prescribed by physicians with expertise in the use of methotrexate and 
a full understanding of the risks of methotrexate therapy. 
Patients must be educated and trained in the proper injection technique when self-administering 
methotrexate. The first injection of Nordimet should be performed under direct medical supervision. 
Important warning about the dosage of Nordimet 
In the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, active juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic 
arthritis and Crohn’s disease requiring dosing once a week. Nordimet must only be used once a 
week. Dosage errors in the use of Nordimet can result in serious adverse reactions, including death. 
Please read this section of the summary of product characteristics very carefully. 
When switching from oral use to subcutaneous use, a reduction in the dose may be required, due to 
the variable bioavailability of methotrexate after oral administration. 
Folic acid or folinic acid supplementation may be considered in accordance with current therapeutic 
guidelines. 
The overall duration of treatment is decided by the doctor. 
Posology 
Dosage in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended initial dose is 7.5 mg of methotrexate once weekly, administered 
subcutaneously. Depending on the individual activity of the disease and patient tolerability, the 
initial dose may be increased. A weekly dose of 25 mg should in general not be exceeded. However, 
doses exceeding 20 mg per week can be associated with significant increase in toxicity, especially 
bone marrow suppression. Response to treatment can be expected after approximately 4-8 weeks. 
Once the desired therapeutic result has been achieved, the dose should be reduced gradually to the 
lowest possible effective maintenance dose. Symptoms may return after treatment discontinuation. 
Methotrexate treatment of rheumatoid arthritis represents long-term treatment. 
Dosage in patients with plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis 
It is recommended that a test dose of 5-10 mg be administered subcutaneously one week prior to 
initiation of therapy, in order to detect idiosyncratic adverse effects. The recommended initial dose 
is 7.5 mg methotrexate once weekly. The dose is to be increased gradually but should not, in 
general, exceed a weekly dose of 25 mg of methotrexate. Doses exceeding 20 mg per week can be 
associated with significant increase in toxicity, especially bone marrow suppression. Response to 
treatment can generally be expected after approximately 2-6 weeks. Depending on the clinical 
picture and the changes of laboratory parameters, the therapy is then continued or discontinued. 
Once the desired therapeutic result has been achieved, dose should be reduced gradually to the 
lowest possible effective maintenance dose. In a few exceptional cases a higher dose than 25 mg 
might be clinically justified, but should not exceed a maximum weekly dose of 30 mg of 
methotrexate as toxicity will markedly increase. 
Methotrexate treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and severe psoriatic arthritis 
represents long-term treatment. 
Dosage in adult patients with Crohn's disease:  
Induction treatment 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 mg/week administered subcutaneously.  
Once patients have adequately responded to combination therapy, the corticosteroids should be 
tapered. Response to treatment can be expected after 8 to 12 weeks.  
Maintenance treatment 
15 mg/week administered subcutaneously, as monotherapy, if the patient has entered remission.  
Special populations 
Elderly 
Dose reduction should be considered in elderly patients due to reduced liver and kidney function as 
well as lower folate reserves which occur with increased age (see sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Methotrexate should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). The dose should be adjusted as follows: 
Creatinine clearance (ml/min) 
≥ 60 
30-59 
< 30 
Dose 
100 % 
50 % 
Nordimet must not be used 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
Methotrexate should be administered with great caution, if at all, to patients with significant current 
or previous liver disease, especially when caused by alcohol. Methotrexate is contraindicated if 
bilirubin values are > 5 mg/dl (85.5 µmol/L) (see section 4.3). 
Use in patient with a third distribution space (pleural effusions, ascitis) 
As the half-life of methotrexate can be prolonged to 4 times the normal length in patients who 
possess a third distribution space, dose reduction or, in some cases, discontinuation of methotrexate 
administration may be required (see sections 5.2 and 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Dosage in children and adolescents below 16 years with polyarthritic forms of juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis 
The recommended dose is 10-15 mg/m² body surface area (BSA) per week.  
In therapy-refractory cases the weekly dose may be increased up to 20 mg/m² BSA per week. 
However, an increased monitoring frequency is indicated if the dose is increased. Parenteral 
administration is limited to subcutaneous injection. Patients with JIA should always be referred to a 
rheumatology unit specializing in the treatment of children/adolescents. 
The safety and efficacy of Nordimet in children < 3 years of age have not been established (see 
section 4.4). No data available. 
Method of administration 
It must be explicitly pointed out to the patient that Nordimet is applied only once a week. It is 
recommended to specify a certain day of the week as “day for injection”.  
Nordimet is for subcutaneous use (see section 6.6.).  
The medicinal product is for single use only. The solution is to be visually inspected prior to use. 
Only clear solutions practically free from particles should be used. 
Any contact of methotrexate with skin and mucosa is to be avoided. In case of contamination, the 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affected parts are to be rinsed immediately with plenty of water (see section 6.6). 
Please refer to the package leaflet for instructions on how to use the pre-filled pen or pre-filled 
syringe. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Severe hepatic impairment if serum if bilirubin is > 5 mg/dl (85.5 µmol/l) (see section 4.2). 
Alcohol abuse. 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min) (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Pre-existing blood dyscrasias, such as bone marrow hypoplasia, leukopenia, 
thrombocytopenia or significant anaemia. 
Immunodeficiency. 
Serious, acute or chronic infections such as tuberculosis and HIV. 
Stomatitis, ulcers of the oral cavity and known active gastrointestinal ulcer disease. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
Concurrent vaccination with live vaccines. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Patients must be clearly advised that the therapy is to be administered once a week, and not every 
day. Incorrect administration of methotrexate can lead to severe, including potentially lethal adverse 
reactions. Healthcare professionals and patients should be clearly instructed. 
Patients receiving therapy should be appropriately monitored, so that signs of possible toxic effects 
or adverse reactions can be recognised and assessed without delay. Hence, methotrexate should be 
only administered by, or under the supervision of, doctors whose knowledge and experience include 
the use of antimetabolite therapy. 
Due to the risk of severe or even fatal toxic reactions, patients should be thoroughly informed by the 
doctor about the risks (including early signs and symptoms of toxicity) and recommended safety 
measures. They are to be informed about the necessity to immediately consult the physician if 
symptoms of intoxication occur, as well as about the subsequent necessary monitoring of symptoms 
of intoxication (including regular laboratory tests). 
Doses exceeding 20 mg/week can be associated with significant increase in toxicity, especially bone 
marrow suppression. 
Skin and mucosal contact with methotrexate is to be avoided. In the case of contamination, the parts 
concerned should be rinsed with plenty of water. 
Fertility and reproduction 
Fertility 
Methotrexate has been reported to cause oligospermia, menstrual dysfunction and amenorrhoea in 
humans, during and for a short period after cessation of therapy, and to cause impaired fertility, 
affecting spermatogenesis and oogenesis during the period of its administration. These effects 
appear to be reversible on discontinuing therapy.  
Teratogenicity – reproductive risk 
Methotrexate causes embryotoxicity, abortion and foetal defects in humans. Therefore, the possible 
risks of effects on reproduction, pregnancy loss and congenital malformations should be discussed 
with female patients of childbearing potential (see section 4.6). The absence of pregnancy must be 
confirmed before Nordimet is used. If women of child bearing potential are treated, effective 
contraception must be used during treatment and for at least six months after.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For contraception advice for men, see section 4.6. 
Recommended examinations and safety measures 
Before initiating therapy or upon resuming therapy after a rest period 
Complete blood count with differential blood count and platelets, liver enzymes, bilirubin, serum 
albumin, chest X-ray and renal function tests must be conducted. If clinically indicated, exclude 
tuberculosis and hepatitis. 
During therapy 
The tests below must be conducted every week during the first two weeks, then every two weeks for 
the next month; afterwards, depending on leukocyte count and stability of the patient, at least once 
monthly during the next six months and at least every three months thereafter. 
Increased monitoring frequency should also be considered when increasing the dose. Particularly 
elderly patients should be examined for early signs of toxicity in short intervals. 
Examination of the oral cavity and throat for mucosal change. 
Complete blood count with differential blood count and platelets 
Haematopoietic suppression induced by methotrexate may occur abruptly and at apparently safe 
doses. In the event of any significant drop in leukocytes or platelets, treatment must be discontinued 
immediately and appropriate supportive therapy instituted. Patients must be instructed to report all 
signs and symptoms suggestive of infection. In patients concomitantly taking haematotoxic 
medicinal products (e.g. leflunomide), the blood count and platelets should be closely monitored.  
Liver function tests 
Treatment should not be initiated or should be discontinued if there are persistent or significant 
abnormalities in liver function tests, other non-invasive investigations of hepatic fibrosis, or liver 
biopsies. 
Temporary increases in transaminases to two or three times the upper limit of normal have been 
reported in patients at a frequency of 13-20 %. Persistent elevation of liver enzymes and/or decrease 
in serum albumin may be indicative for severe hepatotoxicity. In the event of a persistent increase 
in liver enzymes, consideration should be given to reducing the dose or discontinuing therapy. 
Histological changes, fibrosis and more rarely liver cirrhosis may not be preceded by abnormal liver 
function tests. There are instances in cirrhosis where transaminases are normal. Therefore, non-
invasive diagnostic methods for monitoring of liver condition should be considered, in addition to 
liver function tests. Liver biopsy should be considered on an individual basis taking into account the 
patient’s comorbidities, medical history and the risks related to biopsy. Risk factors for 
hepatotoxicity include excessive prior alcohol consumption, persistent elevation of liver enzymes, 
history of liver disease, family history of hereditary liver disorders, diabetes mellitus, obesity and 
previous contact with hepatotoxic drugs or chemicals and prolonged methotrexate treatment. 
Additional hepatotoxic medicinal products should not be given during treatment with methotrexate 
unless clearly necessary.Alcohol consumption should be avoided (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Closer 
monitoring of liver enzymes should be undertaken in patients concomitantly taking other 
hepatotoxic medicinal products. 
Increased caution should be exercised in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, as 
during methotrexate therapy, liver cirrhosisdeveloped in isolated cases without any elevation of 
transaminases. 
Renal function 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal function should be monitored via renal function tests and urinanalysis (see sections 4.2 and 
4.3). If serum creatinine is increased, the dose should be reduced. As methotrexate is predominantly 
excreted via the renal route, increased concentrations can be expected in cases of renal impairment, 
which may result in severe adverse reactions. In cases of possible renal impairment (e.g. in elderly 
patients), closer monitoring is required. This particularly applies to the co-administration of 
medicinal products which affect methotrexate excretion, cause kidney damage (e.g. NSAIDs) or can 
potentially lead to haematopoietic disorders. In patients with impaired renal function, concomitant 
administration of NSAIDs is not recommended. Dehydration may also potentiate the toxicity of 
methotrexate. 
Assessment of respiratory system 
Questioning the patient with regard to possible pulmonary dysfunctions, if necessary, lung function 
test. Acute or chronic interstitial pneumonitis, often associated with blood eosinophilia, may occur 
and deaths have been reported. Symptoms typically include dyspnoea, cough (especially a dry 
non-productive cough), thoracic pain and fever for which patients should be monitored at each 
follow-up visit. Patients should be informed of the risk of pneumonitis and advised to contact their 
doctor immediately should they develop persistent cough or dyspnoea.  
In addition, pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage has been reported with methotrexate used in 
rheumatologic and related indications. This event may also be associated with vasculitis and other 
comorbidities. Prompt investigations should be considered when pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage 
is suspected to confirm the diagnosis. 
Methotrexate should be discontinued in patients with pulmonary symptoms and a thorough 
investigation (including chest x-ray) should be made to exclude infection and tumours. If 
methotrexate induced lung disease is suspected, treatment with corticosteroids should be initiated 
and treatment with methotrexate should not be restarted. 
Pulmonary diseases induced by methotrexate were not always completely reversible. 
Pulmonary symptoms require a quick diagnosis and discontinuation of methotrexate therapy. 
Pulmonary diseases induced by methotrexate, like pneumonitis, can occur acutely at any time of 
therapy, they were not always completely reversible and have been reported already at all doses 
(inclusive low doses of 7.5 mg/week). 
During methotrexate therapy, opportunistic infection can occur including pneumocystis jiroveci 
pneumonia, which may take a lethal course. If a patient presents with pulmonary symptoms, the 
possibility of pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia should be taken into account. 
Special caution is required in patients with impaired pulmonary function. 
General safety measures 
Methotrexate may, due to its effect on the immune system, impair the response to vaccinations and 
interfere with the result of immunological tests. Concurrent vaccination using live vaccines must 
not be carried out. 
Particular caution should be exercised in the presence of inactive, chronic infections (e.g. herpes 
zoster, tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C) due to possible activation. 
Malignant lymphomas may occur in patients receiving low-dose methotrexate; in which case, 
methotrexate must be discontinued. If lymphomas should fail to regress spontaneously, initiation of 
cytotoxic therapy is required. 
In patients with pathological accumulation of liquid in body cavities (“third space”), such as ascites 
or pleural effusions, the plasma elimination half-life of methotrexate is prolonged. Pleural effusions 
and ascites should be drained prior to initiation of methotrexate treatment. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions leading to dehydration such as emesis, diarrhoea or stomatitis, can increase the toxicity 
of methotrexate due to elevated levels of the active substance. In these cases use of methotrexate 
should be interrupted until the symptoms cease. 
Diarrhoea and ulcerative stomatitis can be toxic effects and require interruption of therapy, 
otherwise haemorrhagic enteritis and death from intestinal perforation may occur. 
If haematemesis, black discoloration of the stool or blood in stool occur, therapy is to be 
interrupted. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported in patients receiving 
methotrexate, mostly in combination with other immunosuppressive medication. PML can be fatal and 
should be considered in the differential diagnosis in immunosuppressed patients with new onset or 
worsening neurological symptoms. 
Vitamin preparations or other products containing folic acid, folinic acid or their derivatives may 
decrease the effectiveness of methotrexate. 
Use in children < 3 years of age is not recommended as insufficient data on efficacy and safety are 
available for this population. (see section 4.2). 
Radiation induced dermatitis and sun-burn can reappear under methotrexate therapy 
(recall-reaction). Psoriatic lesions can exacerbate during UV-irradiation and simultaneous 
administration of methotrexate. 
Concomitant administration of folate antagonists such as trimethoprim /sulphamethoxazole has 
been reported to cause an acute megaloblastic pancytopenia in rare instances. 
Encephalopathy / Leukoencephalopathy have been reported in oncologic patients receiving 
methotrexate therapy and cannot be excluded for methotrexate therapy in non-oncologic 
indications. 
Sodium contents 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
NSAIDs including salicylic acid 
In animal experiments NSAIDs including salicylic acid caused reduction of tubular methotrexate 
secretion and consequently increased its toxic effects. However, in clinical studies, where NSAIDs 
and salicylic acid were given as concomitant medicinal products to patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis, no increase of adverse reactions was observed. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with such 
medicinal products can be continued during low-dose methotrexate therapy but only under close 
medical supervision. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Regular alcohol consumption and administration of additional hepatotoxic medicinal products 
increase the probability of hepatotoxic effects of methotrexate. Alcohol consumption must be 
avoided during treatment with methotrexate. 
Patients taking potentially hepatotoxic and haematoxic medicinal products during methotrexate 
therapy (e.g. leflunomide, azathioprine, sulphasalazine, and retinoids) should be closely monitored 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for possibly increased hepatotoxicity.  
Haematotoxic medicinal products  
Administration of additional haematotoxic medicinal products (e.g. metamizole) increases the 
probability of severe haematoxic effects of methotrexate. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
One should be aware of pharmacokinetic interactions between methotrexate, anticonvulsant 
medicinal products (reduced methotrexate blood levels), and 5-fluorouracil (increased t½ of 
5--fluorouracil).  
Alterations in bioavailability of methotrexate 
Salicylates, phenylbutazone, phenytoin, barbiturates, tranquillisers, oral contraceptives, 
tetracyclines, amidopyrine derivatives, sulfonamides and p-aminobenzoic acid displace 
methotrexate from serum albumin binding and thus increase bioavailability (indirect dose increase).  
Probenecid and mild organic acids may also reduce tubular methotrexate secretion, and thus cause 
indirect dose elevations, too. 
Antibiotics, like penicillin, glycopeptides, sulfonamides, ciprofloxacin and cefalotin can, in 
individual cases, reduce the renal clearance of methotrexate, so that increased serum concentrations 
of methotrexate with simultaneous haematological and gastro-intestinal toxicity may occur. 
Oral antibiotics such as tetracyclines, chloramphenicol and non-absorbable broad-spectrum 
antibiotics may reduce intestinal methotrexate absorption or interfere with the enterohepatic 
circulation, due to inhibition of the intestinal flora or suppression of bacterial metabolism. 
Colestyramine can increase the non-renal elimination of methotrexate by interrupting the 
enterohepatic circulation. Delayed methotrexate clearance should be considered in combination 
with other cytostatic medicinal products. 
Co-administration of proton-pump inhibitors such as omeprazole or pantoprazole can lead to 
interactions: concomitant administration of methotrexate and omeprazole has led to a delay in the 
renal elimination of methotrexate. In combination with pantoprazole, inhibited renal elimination of 
the 7-hydroxymethotrexate metabolite, with myalgia and shivering, was reported in one case. 
Substances that may have adverse effects on the bone marrow  
Under (pre-)treatment with substances that may have adverse effects on the bone marrow (e.g. 
sulphonamides, trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole, chloramphenicol, pyrimethamine), the possibility 
of marked haematopoietic disorders should be considered. 
Folate metabolism 
Co-administration of medicinal products which cause folate deficiency (e.g. sulphonamides, 
trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole) can lead to increased methotrexate toxicity. Particular caution 
should therefore also be exercised in the presence of existing folic acid deficiency. 
On the other hand, concomitant administration of folinic acid containing drugs or of vitamin 
preparations, which contain folic acid or derivatives, may impair methotrexate efficacy. 
The use of nitrous oxide potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate metabolism, yielding 
increased toxicity such as severe unpredictable myelosuppression and stomatitis. Whilst this effect 
can be reduced by administering calcium folinate, the concomitant use of nitrous oxide and 
methotrexate should be avoided. 
Though the combination of methotrexate and sulfasalazine may enhance methotrexate efficacy by 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sulfasalazine related inhibition of folic acid synthesis, and thus may lead to an increased risk of 
adverse reactions, these were only observed in single patients within several trials. 
Other antirheumatic agents  
A rise in the toxicity of methotrexate is generally not anticipated when methotrexate is used 
concomitantly with other antirheumatic agents (e.g. gold compounds, penicillamine, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine, azathioprine). 
Cyclosporine 
Cyclosporine may potentiate methotrexate efficacy and toxicity. There is an increased risk of renal 
dysfunction. In addition, there is a biological plausibility of excessive immunosuppression and its 
associated complications. 
Theophylline and caffeine 
Methotrexate may reduce theophylline clearance. Therefore, theophylline blood levels should be 
monitored under concomitant methotrexate administration. 
Excessive consumption of beverages containing caffeine or theophylline (coffee, soft drinks 
containing caffeine, black tea) should be avoided during methotrexate therapy since the efficacy of 
methotrexate may be reduced due to possible interaction between methotrexate and 
methylxanthines at adenosine receptors. 
Leflunomide 
The combined use of methotrexate and leflunomide may increase the risk for pancytopenia. 
Methotrexate leads to increased plasma levels of mercaptopurines. Therefore, the combination of 
these may require dose adjustment. 
Immune-modulating medicinal products  
Particularly in the case of orthopaedic surgery where susceptibility to infection is high, a 
combination of methotrexate with immune-modulating medicinal products must be used with 
caution. 
Radiotherapy  
Radiotherapy during use of methotrexate can increase the risk of soft tissue or bone necrosis.  
Vaccines 
On account of its possible effect on the immune system, methotrexate can falsify vaccinal and test 
results (immunological procedures to record the immune reaction). During methotrexate therapy 
concurrent vaccination with live vaccines must not be carried out (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / contraception in females 
Women must not get pregnant during methotrexate therapy, and effective contraception must be 
used during treatment with methotrexate and at least 6 months thereafter (see section 4.4). Prior to 
initiating therapy, women of childbearing potential must be informed of the risk of malformations 
associated with methotrexate and any existing pregnancy must be excluded with certainty by taking 
appropriate measures, e.g. a pregnancy test. During treatment pregnancy tests should be repeated as 
clinically required (e.g. after any gap of contraception). Female patients of reproductive potential 
must be counselled regarding pregnancy prevention and planning. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contraception in males 
It is not known if methotrexate is present in semen. Methotrexate has been shown to be genotoxic in 
animal studies, such that the risk of genotoxic effects on sperm cells cannot completely be 
excluded. Limited clinical evidence does not indicate an increased risk of malformations or 
miscarriage following paternal exposure to low-dose methotrexate (less than 30 mg/week). For 
higher doses, there is insufficient data to estimate the risks of malformations or miscarriage 
following paternal exposure. 
As precautionary measures, sexually active male patients or their female partners are recommended 
to use reliable contraception during treatment of the male patient and for at least 3 months after 
cessation of methotrexate. Men should not donate semen during therapy or for 3 months following 
discontinuation of methotrexate. 
Pregnancy 
Methotrexate is contraindicated during pregnancy in non-oncological indications (see section 4.3). 
If pregnancy occurs during treatment with methotrexate and up to six months thereafter, medical 
advice should be given regarding the risk of harmful effects on the child associated with treatment 
and ultrasonography examinations should be performed to confirm normal foetal development. 
In animal studies, methotrexate has shown reproductive toxicity, especially during the first trimester 
(see section 5.3). Methotrexate has been shown to have a teratogenic effect in humans; it has been 
reported to cause foetal death and/or congenital abnormalities (e.g. craniofacial, cardiovascular, 
central nervous system and extremity-related).  
Methotrexate is a powerful human teratogen, with an increased risk of spontaneous abortions, 
intrauterine growth restriction and congenital malformations in case of exposure during pregnancy.  
Spontaneous abortions have been reported in 42.5% of pregnant women exposed to low-dose 
methotrexate treatment (less than 30 mg/week), compared to a reported rate of 22.5% in disease-
matched patients treated with drugs other than methotrexate. 
Major birth defects occurred in 6.6% of live births in women exposed to low-dose methotrexate 
treatment (less than 30 mg/week) during pregnancy, compared to approximately 4% of live births in 
in disease-matched patients treated with drugs other than methotrexate. 
Insufficient data is available for methotrexate exposure during pregnancy higher than 30 mg/week, 
but higher rates of spontaneous abortions and congenital malformations are expected. 
When methotrexate was discontinued prior to conception, normal pregnancies have been reported.  
Breast-feeding 
As methotrexate is transferred into human milk and may cause toxicity in breast-feeding children, 
treatment is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). If use of methotrexate during 
the breast-feeding period should become necessary, breast-feeding is to be stopped prior to 
treatment. 
Fertility 
Methotrexate affects spermatogenesis and oogenesis and may decrease fertility. In humans, 
methotrexate has been reported to cause oligospermia, menstrual dysfunction and amenorrhoea. 
These effects appear to be reversible after discontinuation of therapy in most cases. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Nordimet has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Central nervous system 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(CNS) symptoms, such as fatigue and confusion, can occur during treatment.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Most serious adverse reactions of methotrexate include bone marrow suppression, pulmonary 
toxicity, hepatotoxicity, renal toxicity, neurotoxicity, thromboembolic events, anaphylactic shock 
and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Most frequently (very common) observed adverse reactions of methotrexate include gastrointestinal 
disorders (e.g. stomatitis, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nausea, loss of appetite) and abnormal liver 
function tests (e.g. increased Alanine aminotransferase (ALAT), Aspartate aminotransferase 
(ASAT), bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase). Other frequently (common) occurring adverse reactions 
are leukopenia, anaemia, thrombopenia, headache, tiredness, drowsiness, pneumonia, interstitial 
alveolitis/pneumonitis often associated with eosinophilia, oral ulcers, diarrhoea, exanthema, 
erythema and pruritus. 
The most relevant adverse reaction is suppression of the haematopoietic system and gastrointestinal 
disorders. 
List of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10) common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon: Pharyngitis. 
Rare: Infection (incl. reactivation of inactive chronic infection), sepsis, conjunctivitis. 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Very rare: lymphoma (see “description” below) 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common: Leukopenia, anaemia, thrombopenia. 
Uncommon: Pancytopenia. 
Very rare: Agranulocytosis, severe courses of bone marrow depression, lymphoproliferative 
disorders (see “description below”). 
Not known: Eosinophilia 
Immune system disorders 
Rare: Allergic reactions, anaphylactic shock, hypogammaglobulinaemia. 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders  
Uncommon: Precipitation of diabetes mellitus.  
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: Depression, confusion. 
Rare: Mood alterations. 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: Headache, tiredness, drowsiness. 
Uncommon: Dizziness. 
Very rare: Pain, muscular asthenia, paraesthesia/hypoaesthesia, changes in sense of taste (metallic 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
taste), convulsions, meningism, acute aseptic meningitis, paralysis. 
Not known: Encephalopathy/ Leukoencephalopathy. 
Eye disorders  
Rare: Visual disturbances.  
Very rare: Impaired vision, Retinopathy.  
Cardiac disorders  
Rare: Pericarditis, pericardial effusion, pericardial tamponade. 
Vascular disorders 
Rare: Hypotension, thromboembolic events  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common: Pneumonia, interstitial alveolitis/pneumonitis often associated with eosinophilia. 
Symptoms indicating potentially severe lung injury (interstitial pneumonitis) are: dry, not 
productive cough, shortness of breath and fever. 
Rare: Pulmonary fibrosis, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, shortness of breath and bronchial 
asthma, pleural effusion. 
Not known: Epistaxis, pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common: Stomatitis, dyspepsia, nausea, loss of appetite, abdominal pain. 
Common: Oral ulcers, diarrhoea. 
Uncommon: Gastrointestinal ulcers and bleeding, enteritis, vomiting, pancreatitis. 
Rare: Gingivitis. 
Very rare: Haematemesis, haematorrhea, toxic megacolon. 
Hepatobiliary disorders (see section 4.4) 
Very common: Abnormal liver function tests (increased ALAT, ASAT, alkaline phosphatase and 
bilirubin). 
Uncommon: Cirrhosis, fibrosis and fatty degeneration of the liver, decrease in serum albumin. 
Rare: Acute hepatitis. 
Very rare: Hepatic failure. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: Exanthema, erythema, pruritus. 
Uncommon: Photosensitisation, loss of hair, increase in rheumatic nodules, skin ulcer, herpes 
zoster, vasculitis, herpetiform eruptions of the skin, urticaria. 
Rare: Increased pigmentation, acne, petechiae, ecchymosis, allergic vasculitis. 
Very rare: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome), increased 
pigmentary changes of the nails, acute paronychia, furunculosis, telangiectasia.  
Not known: Skin exfoliation / dermatitis exfoliative 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon: Arthralgia, myalgia, osteoporosis. 
Rare: Stress fracture. 
Not known: Osteonecrosis of jaw (secondary to lymphoproliferative disorders) 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon: Inflammation and ulceration of the urinary bladder, renal impairment, disturbed 
micturition. 
Rare: Renal failure, oliguria, anuria, electrolyte disturbances. 
Not known: Proteinuria. 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon: Inflammation and ulceration of the vagina. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare: Loss of libido, impotence, gynaecomastia, oligospermia, impaired menstruation, vaginal 
discharge. 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Rare: Fever, wound-healing impairment. 
Not known: Asthenia, injection site necrosis, oedema. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Lymphoma/Lymphoproliferative disorders 
There have been reports of individual cases of lymphoma and other lymphoproliferative disorders 
which subsided in a number of cases once treatment with methotrexate had been discontinued.  
The appearance and degree of severity of undesirable effects depends on the dosage level and the 
frequency of administration. However, as severe undesirable effects can occur even at lower doses, 
it is indispensable that patients are monitored regularly by the doctor at short intervals. 
Only mild local skin reactions (such as burning sensations, erythema, swelling, discolouration, 
pruritus, severe itching, pain) were observed with subcutaneous use, decreasing during therapy. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms of overdose 
The adverse toxic effects of methotrexate mainly affect the haematopoietic and gastrointestinal 
system. Symptoms include leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, 
bone marrow depression, mucositis, stomatitis, oral ulceration, nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal 
ulceration and gastrointestinal bleeding. Some patients showed no signs of overdose. There are 
reports of death due to sepsis, septic shock, renal failure and aplastic anaemia. 
Treatment of overdose 
Calcium folinate is the specific antidote for neutralising the adverse toxic effects of methotrexate. In 
the event of accidental overdose, a dose of calcium folinate equal to or higher than the offending 
dose of methotrexate should be administered intravenously or intramuscularly within 1 hour, and 
dosing continued until serum level of methotrexate are below 10-7 mol/L. 
In the event of a massive overdose, hydration and urinary alkalisation may be required to prevent 
precipitation of methotrexate and/or its metabolites within the renal tubules. Neither haemodialysis 
nor peritoneal dialysis has been shown to improve methotrexate elimination. Effective methotrexate 
clearance has been reported with acute, intermittent haemodialysis using a high-flux dialyser. 
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis or 
plaque psoriasis, administration of folic or folinic acid may reduce methotrexate toxicity 
(gastrointestinal symptoms, inflammation of oral mucosa, hair loss and increase of liver enzymes) 
(see section 4.5). Prior to using folic acid products, monitoring of vitamin B12 levels is 
recommended, since folic acid may mask an existing vitamin B12 deficiency, particularly in adults 
over 50 years of age. 
5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants. ATC code: 
L04AX03 
Mechanism of action 
Methotrexate is a folic acid antagonist which belongs to the class of cytotoxic agents known as 
antimetabolites. It acts by the competitive inhibition of the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase and thus 
inhibits DNA synthesis. It has not yet been clarified, as to whether the efficacy of methotrexate, in 
the management of psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, chronic polyarthritis and Crohn’s disease is due to 
an anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive effect and to which extent a methotrexate-induced 
increase in extracellular adenosine concentration at inflamed sites contributes to these effects.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A study of weekly injections of methotrexate in a group of patients with chronically active Crohn’s 
disease (despite at least three months of prednisone therapy), showed that methotrexate was more 
effective than placebo in improving symptoms and reducing requirements for prednisone. A total of 
141 patients were randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to methotrexate (25 mg weekly) or placebo. 
After 16 weeks, 37 patients (39.4%) were in clinical remission in the methotrexate group, as 
compared with 9 patients (19.4%, P=0.025;) in the placebo group. The patients in the methotrexate 
group received less prednisone overall and their mean score on the Crohn’s Disease Activity Index 
was significantly lower than those in the placebo group (P=0.026 and P=0.002, respectively). 
[Feagan et al (1995)] 
A study of patients, who had entered remission after 16 to 24 weeks of treatment with 25 mg of 
methotrexate, showed that a low dose of methotrexate maintains remission. Patients were randomly 
assigned to receive either methotrexate at a dose of 15 mg I.M. once weekly or placebo for 40 
weeks. At week 40, 26 patients (65%) were in remission in the methotrexate group and fewer 
needed prednisone for relapse (28%), as compared with the placebo group (39%; P=0.04 and 58%, 
P=0.01, respectively). [Feagan et al (2000)] 
The adverse events observed in the studies performed with methotrexate for Crohn’s disease at 
cumulative doses have not shown a different safety profile of methotrexate than the profile that is 
already known. Therefore, similar cautions must be taken with the use of methotrexate for the 
treatment of Crohn’s disease as in other rheumatic and non-rheumatic indications of methotrexate 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.6).  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
After oral application, methotrexate is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. When administered 
in low doses (7.5 mg/m2 to 80 mg/m2 BSA), methotrexate has a mean bioavailability of 
approximately 70%, although considerable inter- and intra-subject variations are possible 
(25-100%). Plasma peak concentrations are attained within 1-2 hours. Subcutaneous, intravenous 
and intramuscular administration demonstrated similar bioavailability. 
Distribution 
Approximately 50% of methotrexate is bound to serum proteins. Upon being distributed into body 
tissues, high concentrations particularly in liver, kidneys and spleen in form of polyglutamates can 
be found, which can be retained for weeks or months. When administered in small doses, 
methotrexate passes into the body fluids in minimal amounts; under high doses (300 mg/kg body 
weight), concentrations between 4 and 7 µg/ml have been measured in the body fluids. Average 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
terminal half-life is 6-7 hours and demonstrates considerable variation (3-17 hours). Half-life may 
be prolonged to 4 times the normal length in patients with third spaces (pleural effusion, ascites). 
Biotransformation 
Approximately 10% of the administered methotrexate is metabolised intrahepatically. The major 
metabolite is 7-hydroxymethotrexate. 
Elimination 
Excretion takes place, mainly in unchanged form, primarily renal via glomerular filtration and 
active secretion in the proximal tubulus. Approx. 5-20% of methotrexate and 1-5% of 7-
hydroxymethotrexate are eliminated via the bile. Pronounced enterohepatic blood flow exists. 
In case of renal insufficiency, elimination is delayed significantly. Impaired elimination in presence 
of hepatic insufficiency is not known. 
Methotrexate passes the placental barrier in rats and monkeys. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Chronic toxicity 
Chronic toxicity studies in mice, rats and dogs showed toxic effects in the form of gastrointestinal 
lesions, myelosuppression and hepatotoxicity. 
Mutagenic and carcinogenic potential 
Long-term studies in rats, mice and hamsters did not show any evidence of a tumorigenic potential 
of methotrexate. Methotrexate induces gene and chromosome mutations both in vitro and in vivo. A 
mutagenic effect is suspected in humans. 
Reproductive toxicology 
Teratogenic effects have been identified in four species (rats, mice, rabbits, cats). In rhesus 
monkeys, no malformations comparable to humans occurred. 
6 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pre-filled pen orpre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Pre-filled pen 
Pre-filled pen with a 1 mL type I glass syringe with attached stainless steel needle and a chlorobutyl 
rubber plunger stopper. The pre-filled pens contain 0.3 ml, 0.4 ml, 0.5 ml, 0.6 ml, 0.7 ml, 0.8 ml, 
0.9 ml or 1.0 ml of solution for injection.  
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled pen and one alcohol swab and multipacks containing 4 (4 packs of 1 
or 1 pack of 4), 6 (6 packs of 1) and 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens and 4, 6 and 12 alcohol swabs 
respectively. 
Pre-filled syringe 
1 mL type I glass syringe with attached stainless steel needle, a chlorobutyl rubber plunger stopper 
and a needle guard to prevent needlestick injury and re-use. The pre-filled syringes contain 0.3 ml, 
0.4 ml, 0.5 ml, 0.6 ml, 0.7 ml, 0.8 ml, 0.9 ml or 1.0 ml solution for injection.  
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and two alcohol swabs and multipacks containing 4 (4 packs 
of 1), 6 (6 packs of 1) and 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes and 8, 12 and 24 alcohol swabs 
respectively. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Handling and disposal must be consistent with that of other cytotoxic preparations in accordance 
with local requirements. Pregnant health care personnel should not handle and/or administer 
methotrexate. 
Methotrexate should not come into contact with the skin or mucosa. In the event of contamination, 
the affected area must be rinsed immediately with ample amount of water.  
Nordimet is for single use only and any unused solution must be discarded. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements 
for cytotoxic agents. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/16/1124/001 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/009 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/010 - multipack: 6  (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/057 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/058 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/002 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/011 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/012 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/059 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/060 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/003 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/013 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/014 - multipack:6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/061 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/062 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/004 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/015 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/016 - multipack:6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/063 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/064 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/005 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/017 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/018 - multipack:6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/065 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/066 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/006 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/019 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/020 - multipack:6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/067 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/068 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/007 - 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/021 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/022 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/069 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/070 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/008 - 1 pre-filled pen 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/16/1124/023 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/024 - multipack:6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/071 - 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/16/1124/072 - multipack:12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/025 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/026 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/027 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/049 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/028 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/029 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/030 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/050 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/031 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/032 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/033 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/051 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/034 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/035 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/036 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/052 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/037 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/038 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/039 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/053 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/040 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/041 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/042 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/054 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/043 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/044 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/045 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/055 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/16/1124/046 - 1 pre-filled syringe 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/16/1124/047 - multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/048 - multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/16/1124/056 - multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 August 2016 
Date of latest renewal: 21 June 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency (http://www.ema.europa.eu). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.        MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.        CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.        OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.        CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
A.      MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Cenexi - Laboratoires Thissen S.A. 
Rue de la Papyrée 2-6 
B-1420 Braine-L'Alleud 
Belgium 
Sever Pharma Solutions AB 
Agneslundsvagen 27 
P.O. Box 590 
SE-201 25 Malmo 
Sweden 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
3400 Hillerød 
Denmark 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.      CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.       OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.       CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the  agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
•  Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
Description 
The MAH should implement the agreed targeted follow-up 
questionnaires for all medication errors resulting in overdose. 
Due date 
From the date of notification 
of the Commission 
Decision* 
*Referral EMEA/H/A-31/1463 
24 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.3 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.3 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/001 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/057 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.3 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.3 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.3 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/009 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/010 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/058 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.3 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
4 pre-filled pens (0.3 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/009 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/010 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/058 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS  
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 7.5 mg injection  
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
7.5 mg / 0.3 ml 
6.  OTHER 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.4 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.4 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/002 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/059 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
38 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.4 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.4 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.4 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/011 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/012 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/060 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.4 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.4 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/011 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/012 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/060 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 10 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
10 mg / 0.4 ml 
6.  OTHER 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.5 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.5 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/003 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/061 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
47 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.5 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.5 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.5 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/013 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/014 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/062 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.5 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.5 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/013 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/014 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/062 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 12.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
12.5 mg / 0.5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.6 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.6 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/004 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/063 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.6 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.6 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.6 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/015 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/016 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/064 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.6 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.6 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/015 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/016 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/064 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 15 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
15 mg / 0.6 ml 
6.  OTHER 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.7 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.7 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/005 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/065 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.7 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.7 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.7 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/017 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/018 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/066 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.7 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.7 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/017 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/018 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/066 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 17.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
17.5 mg / 0.7 ml 
6.  OTHER 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.8 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.8 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/006 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/067 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.8 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.8 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.8 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/019 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/020 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/068 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.8 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.8 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/019 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/020 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/068 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 20 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg / 0.8 ml 
6.  OTHER 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.9 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (0.9 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/007 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/069 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
83 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.9 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (0.9 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (0.9 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/021 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/022 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/070 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (0.9 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (0.9 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/021 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/022 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/070 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 22.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
22.5 mg / 0.9 ml 
6.  OTHER 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (1.0 ml) and 1 alcohol swab 
4 pre-filled pens (1.0 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/008 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/16/1124/071 4 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
92 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (1.0 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens (1.0 ml) and 6 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (3 packs of 4) pre-filled pens (1.0 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Find the instructions for use here: 
QR-code to be included  
https://nordimetvideo.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/023 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/024 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/072 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled pen of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
1 pre-filled pen (1.0 ml) and 1 alcohol swab. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
4 pre-filled pens (1.0 ml) and 4 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/023 4 pre-filled pens (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/024 6 pre-filled pens (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/072 12 pre-filled pens (3 packs of 4) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 25 mg injection  
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
25 mg / 1.0 ml 
6.  OTHER 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.3 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/025 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
101 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.3 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.3 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.3 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/026 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/027 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/049 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
104 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.3 ml contains 7.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
7.5 mg/0.3 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.3 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/026 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/027 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/049 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 7.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 7.5 mg injection  
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
7.5 mg / 0.3 ml 
Use only once a week 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS  
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 7.5 mg injection  
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
7.5 mg / 0.3 ml 
6.  OTHER 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.4 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/028 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
111 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/029 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/030 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/050 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
114 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.4 ml contains 10 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
10 mg/0.4 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.4 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/029 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/030 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/050 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 10 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 10 mg injection 
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
10 mg / 0.4 ml 
Use only once a week 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 10 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
10 mg / 0.4 ml 
6.  OTHER 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.5 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/031 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
121 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.5 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.5 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.5 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/032 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/033 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/051 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
124 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.5 ml contains 12.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
12.5 mg/0.5 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.5 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/032 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/033 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/051 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 12.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 12.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
12.5 mg / 0.5 ml 
Use only once a week 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 12.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
12.5 mg / 0.5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.6 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/034 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SN 
NN 
131 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.6 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.6 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.6 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/035 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/036 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/052 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
134 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.6 ml contains 15 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
15 mg/0.6 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.6 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/035 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/036 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/052 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 15 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 15 mg injection 
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
15 mg / 0.6 ml 
Use only once a week 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 15 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
15 mg / 0.6 ml 
6.  OTHER 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.7 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/037 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
141 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.7 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.7 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.7 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/038 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/039 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/053 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
144 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.7 ml contains 17.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
17.5 mg/0.7 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.7 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/038 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/039 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/053 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 17.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 17.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
17.5 mg / 0.7 ml 
Use only once a week 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 17.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
17.5 mg / 0.7 ml 
6.  OTHER 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.8 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/040 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
151 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.8 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.8 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.8 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/041 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/042 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/054 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
154 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.8 ml contains 20 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
20 mg/0.8 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.8 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/041 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/042 6 pre-filled syinges (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/054 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 20 mg injection  
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
20 mg / 0.8 ml 
Use only once a week 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 20 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg / 0.8 ml 
6.  OTHER 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.9 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/043 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
161 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.9 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.9 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (0.9 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/044 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/045 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/055 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 0.9 ml contains 22.5 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
22.5 mg/0.9 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.9 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/044 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/045 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/055 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 22.5 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 22.5 mg injection  
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
22.5 mg / 0.9 ml 
Use only once a week 
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 22.5 mg injection 
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
22.5 mg / 0.9 ml 
6.  OTHER 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (1.0 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/046 1 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
171 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (1.0 ml) and 8 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (1.0 ml) and 12 alcohol swabs 
Multipack: 12 (12 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes (1.0 ml) and 24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
172 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/047 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/048 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/056 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC 
SN 
NN 
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 1.0 ml contains 25 mg methotrexate (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide  
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
25 mg/1.0 ml 
1 pre-filled syringe (1.0 ml) and 2 alcohol swabs. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold 
separately 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Methotrexate is injected once weekly. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
Use only once a week  
on …………………………………………………………….. (include weekday of use in full)   
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V.  
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/16/1124/047 4 pre-filled syringes (4 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/048 6 pre-filled syringes (6 packs of 1) 
EU/1/16/1124/056 12 pre-filled syringes (12 packs of 1) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Nordimet 25 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA  
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister - PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Nordimet 25 mg injection  
methotrexate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nordic Group B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
OTHER 
SC 
25 mg / 1.0 ml 
Use only once a week 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Nordimet 25 mg injection  
methotrexate 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch: 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
25 mg / 1.0 ml 
6.  OTHER 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
methotrexate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If  you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Nordimet is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Nordimet 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Nordimet 
Possible side effects 
How to store Nordimet 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Nordimet is and what it is used for 
Nordimet contains the active substance methotrexate which works by:  
- 
-         reducing the activity of the immune system (the body’s own defense mechanism). An 
reducing  inflammation or swelling, and  
overactive immune system has been linked to inflammatory diseases. 
Nordimet is a medicine used to treat a range of inflammatory diseases: 
- 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adults. Active rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory condition 
that affects the joints; 
severe, active juvenile idiopathic arthritis in five or more joints (the condition is therefore 
called polyarthritic), in patients who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy, as well 
as in severe psoriasis that also affects the joints (psoriatic arthritis) in adult patients; 
induction of remission in adults with moderate steroid-dependent Crohn’s disease, in 
combination with corticosteroids; 
maintenance of remission of Crohn´s disease in adults who have responded to methotrexate, 
as monotherapy. 
-  
- 
- 
-  
180 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Nordimet 
Do not use Nordimet if: 
- 
you are allergic to methotrexate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
you have severe kidney disease (your doctor will be able to tell you if you have severe kidney 
disease) 
you have severe liver disease (your doctor will be able to tell you if you have severe liver 
disease) 
you have disorders of the blood-forming system 
your alcohol consumption is high 
you have an impaired immune system 
you have a severe or existing infection, e.g. tuberculosis or HIV 
you have gastrointestinal ulcers 
you are pregnant or breast-feeding (see section “Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility”) 
you receive vaccinations with live vaccines at the same time. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Acute bleeding from the lungs in patients with underlying rheumatologic disease has been reported 
with methotrexate. If you experience symptoms of spitting or coughing up blood you should contact 
your doctor immediately. 
Enlarged lymph nodes (lymphoma) may occur and therapy does then have to be discontinued. 
Diarrhoea can be a toxic effect of Nordimet and requires an interruption of therapy. If you suffer 
from diarrhoea please speak to your doctor. 
Certain brain disorders (encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy) have been reported in cancer 
patients receiving methotrexate. Such side effects cannot be excluded when methotrexate is used to 
treat other diseases. 
If you, your partner or your caregiver notice new onset or worsening of neurological symptoms 
including general muscle weakness, disturbance of vision, changes in thinking, memory and 
orientation leading to confusion and personality changes contact your doctor immediately because 
these may be symptoms of a very rare, serious brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Important warning about the dosing of Nordimet 
Methotrexate for the therapy of rheumatic diseases, diseases of the skin and Crohn’s disease must 
only be used once weekly. Incorrect dosing of methotrexate may lead to serious adverse effects 
which may be fatal. Please read section 3 of this package leaflet very carefully. 
Talk to your doctor before using Nordimet if: 
- 
-  
you have diabetes mellitus and are being treated with insulin 
you have inactive, prolonged infections (e.g. tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C, shingles [herpes 
zoster]) 
you have/had any liver or kidney disease 
you have problems with lung function 
you are severely overweight 
you have abnormal accumulation of liquid in the abdomen or in the cavity between the lungs 
and chest wall (ascites, pleural effusions) 
you are dehydrated or suffer from conditions leading to dehydration (e.g. dehydration as a 
result of vomiting, diarrhoea or inflammation of the mouth and lips) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have experienced problems with your skin after radiation therapy (radiation induced 
dermatitis) or sun-burn, these conditions can reappear when taking Nordimet. 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children, adolescents and elderly 
Dose instructions depend on the patient’s body weight. 
Use in children under 3 years of age is not recommended due to insufficient experience of using this 
medicine in this age group. 
Children, adolescents and the elderly being treated with Nordimet should be kept under close 
medical surveillance to identify possible side effects as early as possible. 
The dose for elderly patients should be lowered due to age-related reduced liver and kidney 
function. 
Special precautionary measures for treatment with Nordimet 
Methotrexate temporarily affects sperm and egg production. Methotrexate can cause miscarriage 
and severe birth defects. You should avoid having a baby if you are being given methotrexate at the 
time and for at least 6 months after the end of your treatment with methotrexate if you are a woman. 
If you are a man you should avoid fathering a child if you are being given methotrexate at the time 
and for at least 3 months after the end of your treatment. See also section “Pregnancy, 
breast-feeding and fertility”.  
Skin changes caused by psoriasis can worsen during treatment with Nordimet if exposed to 
ultraviolet irradiation. 
Recommended follow-up examinations and precautions 
Even if methotrexate is used in low doses, serious side effects can occur. In order to detect them in 
time, your doctor must perform monitoring examinations and laboratory tests. 
Prior to the start of therapy: 
Before you start treatment, your blood will be checked to see if you have enough blood cells. Your 
blood will also be tested to check your liver function and to find out if you have hepatitis. 
Furthermore, serum albumin (a protein in the blood), hepatitis (liver infection) status and kidney 
function will be checked. The doctor may also decide to run other liver tests, some of these may be 
images of your liver and others may need a small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to 
examine it more closely. Your doctor may also check to see if you have tuberculosis and they may 
X-ray your chest or perform a lung function test. 
During the treatment: 
Your doctor may perform the following examinations: 
examination of the oral cavity and the pharynx for changes in the mucous membrane such 
blood tests/ blood count with number of blood cells and measurement of serum 
- 
as inflammation or ulceration 
- 
methotrexate levels 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood test to monitor liver function 
Imaging tests to monitor liver condition 
small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to examine it more closely 
blood test to monitor kidney function 
respiratory tract monitoring and, if necessary, lung function test 
It is very important that you appear for these scheduled examinations. 
If the results of any of these tests are conspicuous, your doctor will adjust your treatment 
accordingly. 
Other medicines and Nordimet 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
It is especially important to tell your doctor if you are taking: 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
other treatments for rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis such as leflunomide, sulphasalazine 
(a medicine that besides arthritis and psoriasis is also used to treat ulcerative colitis), aspirin, 
phenylbutazone, or amidopyrine 
cyclosporine (for suppressing the immune system) 
- 
-       azathioprine (used to prevent rejection after an organ transplant) 
retinoids (used to treat psoriasis and other skin disorders) 
-      
-       anticonvulsant medicines (used to prevent fits), such as phenytoin, valproate or 
carbamazepine 
-       cancer treatments 
-       barbiturates (sleeping injection) 
-      
tranquillisers 
-       oral contraceptives 
-       probenecid (used to treat gout) 
-       antibiotics (e.g. penicillin, glycopeptides, trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole, sulfonamides, 
ciprofloxacin, cefalotin, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol) 
-       pyrimethamine (used to prevent and treat malaria) 
-       vitamin preparations containing folic acid 
-       proton-pump inhibitors (medicines that reduce the production of gastric acid and that are used 
to treat severe heartburn or ulcers), such as omeprazole or pantoprazole 
theophylline (used to treat asthma) 
-      
-       colestyramine (used to treat high cholesterol, pruritus or diarrhoea) 
-       NSAID’s, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (used to treat pain or inflammation) 
-       p-aminobenzoic acid (used to treat skin disorders) 
- 
any vaccination with a live vaccine (must be avoided), such as measles, mumps or yellow 
fever vaccines 
additional haematotoxic medicines (e.g. metamizol) 
nitrous oxide (a gas used in general anaesthesia 
-  
- 
Nordimet with food, drink and alcohol 
During treatment with Nordimet, you must not drink any alcohol and should avoid excessive 
consumption of coffee, soft drinks containing caffeine and black tea as this may enhance side 
effects or interfere with the efficacy of Nordimet. Also, make sure you drink plenty of liquids 
during treatment with Nordimet because dehydration (reduction in body water) can increase the 
toxicity of Nordimet. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Do not use Nordimet during pregnancy or if you are trying to become pregnant. Methotrexate can 
cause birth defects, harm unborn babies or cause miscarriages. It is associated with malformations 
of the skull, face, heart and blood vessels, brain and limbs. Therefore, it is very important that 
methotrexate is not given to pregnant patients or patients planning to become pregnant. In women 
of child-bearing age any possibility of pregnancy must be excluded with appropriate measures, e.g. 
a pregnancy test before starting treatment. You must avoid becoming pregnant whilst taking 
methotrexate and for at least 6 months after treatment is stopped by using reliable contraception 
throughout this time (see also section “Warnings and precautions”). 
If you do become pregnant during treatment or suspect you might be pregnant, speak to your doctor 
as soon as possible. You should be offered advice regarding the risk of harmful effects on the child 
through treatment. 
If you wish to become pregnant you should consult your doctor, who may refer you for specialist 
advice before the planned start of treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment because methotrexate passes into breast milk. If your doctor 
183 
 
 
 
 
 
considers treatment with methotrexate absolutely necessary during the lactation period, you must 
stop breast-feeding. 
Male fertility 
The available evidence does not indicate an increased risk of malformations or miscarriage if the 
father takes methotrexate less than 30 mg/week. However, a risk cannot be completely excluded. 
Methotrexate may be genotoxic. This means that the medicine may cause genetic mutation. 
Methotrexate can affect sperm production with the potential to cause birth defects. Therefore, you 
should avoid fathering a child or to donate semen whilst taking methotrexate and for at least 3 
months after treatment is stopped.  
Driving and using machines 
Side effects affecting the central nervous system, such as tiredness and dizziness, may occur during 
treatment with Nordimet. In some cases, the ability to drive vehicles and/or use machines may be 
impaired. If you feel tired or dizzy, you should not drive or use machines. 
Nordimet contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
3. 
How to use Nordimet 
Important warning about the dose of Nordimet 
Use Nordimet only once a week for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, active juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s disease requiring dosing once a week. Using too 
much of Nordimet may be fatal. Please read section 3 of this leaflet very carefully. If you have any 
questions, please talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you take this medicine. 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Nordimet is administered once a week only. You and your doctor can decide on a suitable day each 
week to receive your injection. 
Incorrect administration of Nordimet can lead to severe side effects that may be fatal.  
The recommended dose is: 
Dose in patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended starting dose is 7.5 mg methotrexate once a week.  
The doctor may increase the dose if the used dose is not effective but tolerated well. The average 
weekly dose is 15-20 mg. Generally, a weekly dose of 25 mg should not be exceeded. Once 
Nordimet starts working, the doctor may reduce the dose gradually to the lowest possible effective 
maintenance dose. 
Generally, improvement of symptoms can be expected after 4-8 weeks of treatment. Symptoms may 
return if treatment with Nordimet is stopped. 
Use in adults with moderate to severe forms of plaque psoriasis or severe psoriatic arthritis 
Your doctor will give you a single test dose of 5-10 mg, in order to assess possible side effects.  
If the test dose is well tolerated, treatment will be continued after a week with a dose of 
184 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 7.5 mg.  
Response to treatment can generally be expected after 2-6 weeks. Depending on the effects of 
treatment and results of blood and urine tests, the therapy is then continued or stopped. 
Dose in adult patients with Crohn's disease:  
Your doctor will start with a weekly dose of 25 mg. Response to treatment can generally be 
expected after 8-12 weeks. Depending on the effects of treatment in time, your doctor may decide to 
reduce the dose to 15 mg weekly.  
Use in children and adolescents below 16 years with polyarthritic forms of juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis 
The doctor will calculate the dose required from the child’s body surface area (m2), and the dose is 
expressed as mg/m2.  
Use in children under 3 years of age is not recommended due to insufficient experience in this age 
group. 
Method and duration of administration 
Nordimet is given as injection under the skin (subcutaneously). It must be injected once weekly and 
it is recommended to always inject Nordimet on the same day of the week.  
At the start of your treatment, Nordimet may be injected by medical staff. However, your doctor 
may decide that you can learn how to inject Nordimet yourself. You will receive appropriate 
training for you to do this. Under no circumstances should you attempt to inject yourself, unless you 
have been trained to do so. 
The duration of treatment is determined by the treating physician.  
Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis 
and Crohn’s disease with Nordimet is a long-term treatment. 
How to give yourself an injection of Nordimet 
If you have difficulty handling the pen, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Do not try to inject yourself 
if you have not been trained on how to do so. If you are not sure what to do, talk to your doctor or 
nurse immediately. Beside the below information on administration, you can find on the carton a 
QR code with an instruction video on how to administer yourself. This QR code can be scanned 
with QR reader, an application (app) on smartphone or tablet. The same information can also be 
found at https://nordimetvideo.com. 
Before injecting yourself with Nordimet 
-  
-  
Check the expiry date on the medicine. Do not use if the date has passed. 
Check the pen is not damaged and the medicine in it is a clear, yellow solution. If not, use 
another pen. 
Check your last injection site to see if the last injection caused any redness, change in skin 
colour, swelling, oozing or is still painful, if so talk to your doctor or nurse. 
Decide where you are going to inject the medicine. Change the place where you inject each 
time. 
-  
-  
Instructions on injecting yourself with Nordimet 
1) Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
2) Sit or lie in a relaxed, comfortable position. Make sure you can see the skin area you are going to 
inject.  
3) The pen is pre-filled and ready to use. Visually inspect the pen. You should see a yellow fluid 
through the viewing window. You may see a small air bubble, this does not affect the injection and 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will not harm you. 
A droplet may appear at the tip of the needle. This is normal. 
4) Choose an injection site and clean it with the enclosed alcohol swab. It requires 30-60 seconds to 
be effective. The skin on the front side abdominal wall and the skin at the front of the thigh are 
suitable as injection sites. 
5) While holding the body of the pen, remove the green protective cap by pulling it smoothly and 
directly away from the unit. Do not twist or bend.  
Once you have taken the cap off, keep the pen in your hand. Do not allow the pen to touch anything 
else. This is to make sure that the pen is not accidentally activated and that the needle stays clean. 
6) Make a fold in the skin by gently pinching the skin of the injection place with your forefinger 
and thumb. Make sure you hold the skin fold throughout the injection. 
7) Move the pen towards the skin fold (site of injection) with the needle shield pointing directly at 
the site of injection. Place the yellow needle shield against the area of injection so that the entire rim 
of the needle shield is touching the skin. 
8) Apply downward pressure on the pen on to your skin until you hear and feel a “click”. 
This activates the pen and the solution will inject automatically into the skin. 
9) The injection lasts for a maximum of 10 seconds. You will feel and hear a second “click” once 
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the injection is completed. 
10) Wait another 2-3 seconds before removing the pen from your skin. The safety shield on the pen 
is now locked to prevent any needlestick injuries. You can now let go of the skin fold. 
11) Visually inspect the pen through the viewing window. You should see green plastic. This means 
that all the fluid has been injected. Discard the used pen into the sharps bin provided. Close the 
container lid tightly and place the container out of reach of children. If you accidently get 
methotrexate on the surface of the skin or soft tissues you must rinse with plenty of water. 
If you use more Nordimet than you should 
Follow the dose recommendations of your treating doctor. Do not change the dose without your 
doctor’s recommendation. 
If you suspect that you have used too much Nordimet, tell your doctor or contact the nearest 
hospital immediately. Take your medicine package and this leaflet with you if you go to a doctor or 
hospital. 
An overdose of methotrexate can lead to severe toxic reactions. Overdose symptoms may include 
easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness, mouth sores, nausea, vomiting, black or bloody stools, 
coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds, and decreased urinating. See also 
section 4. 
If you forget to use Nordimet 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose, but continue taking the prescribed dose 
as normal. Ask your doctor for advice. 
If you stop taking Nordimet 
You should not interrupt or discontinue Nordimet treatment before discussing with your doctor. If 
you suspect that you are experiencing side effects, contact your doctor immediately for advice. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get any sudden wheeziness, difficulty in breathing, swelling of 
the eyelids, face or lips, rash or itching (especially affecting your whole body). 
Serious side effects 
If you develop any of the following side effects, contact your doctor immediately: 
- 
inflammation of the lungs (symptoms may be general illness, dry, irritating cough, shortness 
of breath, breathlessness at rest, chest pain, or fever)  
spitting or coughing blood 
severe peeling or blistering of the skin 
unusual bleeding (including vomiting blood) or bruising 
severe diarrhoea 
ulcers in mouth 
black or tarry stools 
blood in the urine or stools 
tiny red spots on the skin 
fever 
yellowing of the skin (jaundice) 
pain or difficulty in passing urine 
thirst and/or frequent urination 
fits (convulsions) 
loss of consciousness 
blurred or decreased vision 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The following side effects have also been reported: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
loss of appetite, nausea (feeling sick), tummy pain, inflammation ofthe mouth lining, abnormal 
digestion, and increase in liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Reduced blood cell formation with decrease in white and/or red blood cells and/or platelets 
(leukopenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia), headache, tiredness, drowsiness, inflammation of the 
lungs (pneumonia) with dry, non-productive cough, shortness of breath and fever, mouth ulcers, 
diarrhoea, rash, reddening of the skin, itching. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Decrease in the number of blood cells and platelets, throat inflammation, dizziness, confusion, 
depression, inflammation of blood vessels, ulcers and bleeding in the digestive tract, inflammation 
of the bowels, vomiting, inflammation of pancreas, liver disorders, diabetes, decreased blood 
protein, herpes-like skin rash, nettle rash, light sensitivity, hair loss, increase of rheumatic nodules, 
skin ulcer, shingles, joint or muscle pain, osteoporosis (reduction of bone mass), inflammation and 
ulcers of the bladder (possibly with blood in the urine), reduced kidney function, painful urination, 
inflammation and ulcers of the vagina. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
Infection (incl. reactivation of inactive chronic infection), sepsis, red eyes, allergic reactions, 
anaphylactic shock, decreased numbers of antibodies in the blood, inflammation of the sac around 
the heart, accumulation of fluid in the sac around the heart, obstruction of cardiac filling due to fluid 
in the sac around the heart, visual disturbance, mood fluctuations, low blood pressure, blood clots, 
formation of scar tissue in the lung (pulmonary fibrosis), Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, 
interruption of breathing, asthma, accumulation of fluid in the sac around the lungs,  inflamed 
gums, acute hepatitis (inflammation of the liver), brown skin, acne, red or purple spots due to vessel 
bleeding, allergic inflammation of blood vessels, bone fracture, kidney failure, decrease or absence 
of urine, electrolyte disturbances,  fever, slow wound healing. 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
Reduction in certain white blood cells (agranulocytosis), severe failure of the bone marrow, liver 
failure, swollen glands, sleeplessness, pain, muscle weakness, sensation of numbness or tingling / 
having less sensitivity to stimulation than normal, changes in sense of taste (metallic taste), fits, 
inflammation of the lining of the brain causing paralysis or vomiting, impaired vision, damage to 
the retina of the eye, vomiting blood, toxic megacolon (enlargement of the large intestine associated 
with severe pain) , defective sperm formation (oligospermia), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome), increased pigmentation of the nails, loss of sex drive, 
problems having an erection, infection around a fingernail, severe complications of the 
gastrointestinal tract, boils, visible enlargement of small blood vessels in the skin, menstrual 
disorders, vaginal discharge, infertility, male breast enlargement (gynaecomastia), 
lymphoproliferative disorders (excessive growth of white blood cells). 
Frequency not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Increased number of certain white blood cells (eosinophilia), certain brain disorders 
(encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy), nose bleeds, bleeding from the lungs, bone damage in the 
jaw (secondary to excessive growth of white blood cells), protein in the urine, feeling of weakness, 
tissue destruction at injection site, redness and shedding of skin, swelling. 
Only mild local skin reactions (such as burning sensations, erythema, swelling, discolouration, 
severe itching, pain) were observed with Nordimet and these decreased during therapy. 
Nordimet may cause a reduction in the number of white blood cells and your resistance to infection 
may be decreased. If you experience an infection with symptoms such as fever and serious 
deterioration of your general condition, or fever with local infection symptoms such as sore 
throat/sore pharynx/sore mouth or urinary problems you should see your doctor immediately. A 
blood test will be taken to check for possible reduction of white blood cells (agranulocytosis). It is 
important to tell your doctor that you are taking Nordimet. 
Methotrexate is known to cause bone disorders such as joint and muscle pain and osteoporosis. The 
frequency of these risks in children is not known.  
Nordimet may cause serious (sometimes life-threatening) side effects. Your doctor will do tests to 
check for abnormalities developing in the blood (e.g. low white blood cells, low platelets, 
lymphoma) and changes in the kidney and the liver. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5.       How to store Nordimet 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the pre-filled pen and 
the carton after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the solution is not clear and contains particles. 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nordimet is for single use only. Any used pen should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.          Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nordimet contains 
The active substance is methotrexate. 1.0 ml of solution contains 25 mg methotrexate. 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide and water for injections. 
The following pens are available: 
Pre-filled pens of 0.3 ml containing 7.5 mg methotrexate.  
Pre-filled pens of 0.4 ml containing 10 mg methotrexate 
Pre-filled pens of 0.5 ml containing 12.5 mg methotrexate 
Pre-filled pens of 0.6 ml containing 15 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled pens of 0.7 ml containing 17.5 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled pens of 0.8 ml containing 20 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled pens of 0.9 ml containing 22.5 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled pens of 1.0 ml containing 25 mg methotrexate 
What Nordimet looks like and contents of the pack 
Nordimet pre-filled pens contain a clear, yellow solution for injection.  
Nordimet is available in packs containing 1 or 4 pre-filled pens and 1 or 4 alcohol swabs and in 
multipacks comprising 4 or 6 cartons, each containing 1 pre-filled pen and one alcohol swab.  
Nordimet is also available in multipacks comprising 3 cartons, each containing 4 pre-filled pens and 
alcohol swabs. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
CENEXI - Laboratoires Thissen 
Rue de la Papyrée 2-6 
B-1420 Braine-l’Alleud 
Belgium 
Sever Pharma Solutions AB 
Agneslundsvagen 27 
P.O. Box 590 
SE-201 25 Malmo 
Sweden 
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
3400 Hillerød 
Denmark 
190 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http//www.ema.europa.eu.  
191 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Nordimet 7.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 10 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 12.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 15 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 17.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 22.5 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Nordimet 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
methotrexate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If  you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Nordimet is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Nordimet 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Nordimet 
Possible side effects 
How to store Nordimet 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Nordimet is and what it is used for 
Nordimet contains the active substance methotrexate which works by:  
- 
-         reducing the activity of the immune system (the body’s own defense mechanism). An 
reducing  inflammation or swelling, and  
overactive immune system has been linked to inflammatory diseases. 
Nordimet is a medicine used to treat a range of inflammatory diseases: 
- 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adults. Active rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory condition 
that affects the joints; 
severe, active juvenile idiopathic arthritis in five or more joints (the condition is therefore 
called polyarthritic), in patients who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy, as well 
as in severe psoriasis that also affects the joints (psoriatic arthritis) in adult patients; 
induction of remission in adults with moderate steroid-dependent Crohn’s disease, in 
combination with corticosteroids; 
maintenance of remission of Crohn´s disease in adults who have responded to methotrexate, 
as monotherapy.
-  
- 
- 
- 
192 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
What you need to know before you use Nordimet 
Do not use Nordimet if: 
- 
you are allergic to methotrexate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
you have severe kidney disease (your doctor will be able to tell you if you have severe kidney 
disease) 
you have severe liver disease (your doctor will be able to tell you if you have severe liver 
disease) 
you have disorders of the blood-forming system 
your alcohol consumption is high 
you have an impaired immune system 
you have a severe or existing infection, e.g. tuberculosis or HIV 
you have gastrointestinal ulcers 
you are pregnant or breast-feeding (see section “Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility”) 
you receive vaccinations with live vaccines at the same time. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Acute bleeding from the lungs in patients with underlying rheumatologic disease has been reported 
with methotrexate. If you experience symptoms of spitting or coughing up blood you should contact 
your doctor immediately. 
Enlarged lymph nodes (lymphoma) may occur and therapy does then have to be discontinued. 
Diarrhoea can be a toxic effect of Nordimet and requires an interruption of therapy. If you suffer 
from diarrhoea please speak to your doctor. 
Certain brain disorders (encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy) have been reported in cancer 
patients receiving methotrexate. Such side effects cannot be excluded when methotrexate is used to 
treat other diseases. 
If you, your partner or your caregiver notice new onset or worsening of neurological symptoms 
including general muscle weakness, disturbance of vision, changes in thinking, memory and 
orientation leading to confusion and personality changes contact your doctor immediately because 
these may be symptoms of a very rare, serious brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Important warning about the dosing of Nordimet 
Methotrexate for the therapy of rheumatic diseases, diseases of the skin and Crohn’s disease must 
only be used once weekly. Incorrect dosing of methotrexate may lead to serious adverse effects 
which may be fatal. Please read section 3 of this package leaflet very carefully. 
Talk to your doctor before using Nordimet if: 
- 
-  
you have diabetes mellitus and are being treated with insulin 
you have inactive, prolonged infections (e.g. tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C, shingles [herpes 
zoster]) 
you have/had any liver or kidney disease 
you have problems with lung function 
you are severely overweight 
you have abnormal accumulation of liquid in the abdomen or in the cavity between the lungs 
and chest wall (ascites, pleural effusions) 
you are dehydrated or suffer from conditions leading to dehydration (e.g. dehydration as a 
result of vomiting, diarrhoea or inflammation of the mouth and lips) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have experienced problems with your skin after radiation therapy (radiation induced 
dermatitis) or sun-burn, these conditions can reappear when taking Nordimet. 
193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children, adolescents and elderly 
Dose instructions depend on the patient’s body weight. 
Use in children under 3 years of age is not recommended due to insufficient experience of using this 
medicine in this age group. 
Children, adolescents and the elderly being treated with Nordimet should be kept under close 
medical surveillance to identify possible side effects as early as possible. 
The dose for elderly patients should be lowered due to age-related reduced liver and kidney 
function. 
Special precautionary measures for treatment with Nordimet 
Methotrexate temporarily affects sperm and egg production. Methotrexate can cause miscarriage 
and severe birth defects. You should avoid having a baby if you are being given methotrexate at the 
time and for at least 6 months after the end of your treatment with methotrexate if you are a woman. 
If you are a man you should avoid fathering a child if you are being given methotrexate at the time 
and for at least 3 months after the end of your treatment. See also section “Pregnancy, 
breast-feeding and fertility”.  
Skin changes caused by psoriasis can worsen during treatment with Nordimet if exposed to 
ultraviolet irradiation. 
Recommended follow-up examinations and precautions 
Even if methotrexate is used in low doses, serious side effects can occur. In order to detect them in 
time, your doctor must perform monitoring examinations and laboratory tests. 
Prior to the start of therapy: 
Before you start treatment, your blood will be checked to see if you have enough blood cells. Your 
blood will also be tested to check your liver function and to find out if you have hepatitis. 
Furthermore, serum albumin (a protein in the blood), hepatitis (liver infection) status and kidney 
function will be checked. The doctor may also decide to run other liver tests, some of these may be 
images of your liver and others may need a small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to 
examine it more closely. Your doctor may also check to see if you have tuberculosis and they may 
X-ray your chest or perform a lung function test. 
During the treatment: 
Your doctor may perform the following examinations: 
examination of the oral cavity and the pharynx for changes in the mucous membrane such 
blood tests/ blood count with number of blood cells and measurement of serum 
- 
as inflammation or ulceration 
- 
methotrexate levels 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood test to monitor liver function 
Imaging tests to monitor liver condition 
small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to examine it more closely 
blood test to monitor kidney function 
respiratory tract monitoring and, if necessary, lung function test 
It is very important that you appear for these scheduled examinations. 
If the results of any of these tests are conspicuous, your doctor will adjust your treatment 
accordingly. 
Other medicines and Nordimet 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
It is especially important to tell your doctor if you are taking: 
194 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
other treatments for rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis such as leflunomide, sulphasalazine 
(a medicine that besides arthritis and psoriasis is also used to treat ulcerative colitis), aspirin, 
phenylbutazone, or amidopyrine 
cyclosporine (for suppressing the immune system) 
- 
-       azathioprine (used to prevent rejection after an organ transplant) 
retinoids (used to treat psoriasis and other skin disorders) 
-      
-       anticonvulsant medicines (used to prevent fits), such as phenytoin, valproate or 
carbamazepine 
-       cancer treatments 
-       barbiturates (sleeping injection) 
-      
tranquillisers 
-       oral contraceptives 
-       probenecid (used to treat gout) 
-       antibiotics(e.g. penicillin, glycopeptides, trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole, sulfonamides, 
ciprofloxacin, cefalotin, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol) 
-       pyrimethamine (used to prevent and treat malaria) 
-       vitamin preparations containing folic acid 
-       proton-pump inhibitors (medicines that reduce the production of gastric acid and that are used 
to treat severe heartburn or ulcers), such as omeprazole or pantoprazole 
theophylline (used to treat asthma) 
-      
-       colestyramine (used to treat high cholesterol, pruritus or diarrhoea) 
-       NSAID’s, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (used to treat pain or inflammation) 
-       p-aminobenzoic acid (used to treat skin disorders) 
- 
any vaccination with a live vaccine (must be avoided), such as measles, mumps or yellow 
fever vaccines 
additional haematotoxic medicines (e.g. metamizol) 
nitrous oxide (a gas used in general anaesthesia 
- 
- 
Nordimet with food, drink and alcohol 
During treatment with Nordimet, you must not drink any alcohol and should avoid excessive 
consumption of coffee, soft drinks containing caffeine and black tea as this may enhance side 
effects or interfere with the efficacy of Nordimet. Also, make sure you drink plenty of liquids 
during treatment with Nordimet because dehydration (reduction in body water) can increase the 
toxicity of Nordimet. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Do not use Nordimet during pregnancy or if you are trying to become pregnant. Methotrexate can 
cause birth defects, harm unborn babies or cause miscarriage. It is associated with malformations of 
the skull, face, heart and blood vessels, brain and limbs. Therefore, it is very important that 
methotrexate is not given to pregnant patients or patients planning to become pregnant. In women 
of child-bearing age any possibility of pregnancy must be excluded with appropriate measures, e.g. 
a pregnancy test before starting treatment. You must avoid becoming pregnant whilst taking 
methotrexate and for at least 6 months after treatment is stopped by using reliable contraception 
throughout this time (see also section “Warnings and precautions”). 
If you do become pregnant during treatment or suspect you might be pregnant, speak to your doctor 
as soon as possible. You should be offered advice regarding the risk of harmful effects on the child 
through treatment. 
If you wish to become pregnant you should consult your doctor, who may refer you for specialist 
advice before the planned start of treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not breast-feed during treatment because methotrexate passes into breast milk. If your doctor 
considers treatment with methotrexate absolutely necessary during the lactation period, you must 
stop breast-feeding. 
Male fertility 
The available evidence does not indicate an increased risk of malformations or miscarriage if the 
father takes methotrexate less than 30 mg/week. However, a risk cannot be completely excluded. 
Methotrexate may be genotoxic. This means that the medicine may cause genetic mutation. 
Methotrexate can affect sperm production with the potential to cause birth defects. Therefore, you 
should avoid fathering a child or to donate semen whilst taking methotrexate and for at least 3 
months after treatment is stopped.  
Driving and using machines 
Side effects affecting the central nervous system, such as tiredness and dizziness, may occur during 
treatment with Nordimet. In some cases, the ability to drive vehicles and/or use machines may be 
impaired. If you feel tired or dizzy, you should not drive or use machines. 
Nordimet contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
3. 
How to use Nordimet 
Important warning about the dose of Nordimet 
Use Nordimet only once a week for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, active juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatitic arthritis and Crohn’s disease requiring dosing once a week. Using too 
much of Nordimet may be fatal. Please read section 3 of this leaflet very carefully. If you have any 
questions, please talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you take this medicine. 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Nordimet is administered once a week only. You and your doctor can decide on a suitable day each 
week to receive your injection. 
Incorrect administration of Nordimet can lead to severe side effects that may be fatal.  
The recommended dose is: 
Dose in patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended starting dose is 7.5 mg methotrexate once a week.  
The doctor may increase the dose if the used dose is not effective but tolerated well. The average 
weekly dose is 15-20 mg. Generally, a weekly dose of 25 mg should not be exceeded. Once 
Nordimet starts working, the doctor may reduce the dose gradually to the lowest possible effective 
maintenance dose. 
Generally, improvement of symptoms can be expected after 4-8 weeks of treatment. Symptoms may 
return if treatment with Nordimet is stopped. 
Use in adults with moderate to severe forms of plaque psoriasis or severe psoriatic arthritis 
Your doctor will give you a single test dose of 5-10 mg, in order to assess possible side effects.  
If the test dose is well tolerated, treatment will be continued after a week with a dose of 
196 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 7.5 mg.  
Response to treatment can generally be expected after 2-6 weeks. Depending on the effects of 
treatment and results of blood and urine tests, the therapy is then continued or stopped. 
Dose in adult patients with Crohn's disease:  
Your doctor will start with a weekly dose of 25 mg. Response to treatment can generally be 
expected after 8-12 weeks. Depending on the effects of treatment in time, your doctor may decide to 
reduce the dose to 15 mg weekly. 
Use in children and adolescents below 16 years with polyarthritic forms of juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis 
The doctor will calculate the dose required from the child’s body surface area (m2), and the dose is 
expressed as mg/m2.  
Use in children under 3 years of age is not recommended due to insufficient experience in this age 
group. 
Method and duration of administration 
Nordimet is given as injection under the skin (subcutaneously). It must be injected once weekly and 
it is recommended to always inject Nordimet on the same day of the week.  
At the start of your treatment, Nordimet may be injected by medical staff. However, your doctor 
may decide that you can learn how to inject Nordimet yourself. You will receive appropriate 
training for you to do this. Under no circumstances should you attempt to inject yourself, unless you 
have been trained to do so. 
The duration of treatment is determined by the treating physician.  
Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis 
and Crohn’s disease with Nordimet is a long-term treatment. 
How to give yourself an injection of Nordimet 
If you have difficulty handling the syringe, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Do not try to inject 
yourself if you have not been trained on how to do so. If you are not sure what to do, talk to your 
doctor or nurse immediately. 
Before injecting yourself with Nordimet 
-  
-  
Check the expiry date on the medicine. Do not use if the date has passed. 
Check the syringe is not damaged and the medicine in it is a clear, yellow solution. If not, use 
another syringe. 
Check your last injection site to see if the last injection caused any redness, change in skin 
colour, swelling, oozing or is still painful, if so talk to your doctor or nurse. 
Decide where you are going to inject the medicine. Change the place where you inject each 
time. 
-  
-  
Instructions on injecting yourself with Nordimet 
1) Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
2) Sit or lie in a relaxed, comfortable position. Make sure you can see the skin area you are going to 
inject.  
3) The syringe is pre-filled and ready to use. Open the blister pack by peeling back the top layer all 
the way off the blister pack as shown. 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Precaution: DO NOT lift the product by the plunger or needle cover. Remove the syringe from 
the box by the body as shown in the picture below.  
5) Visually inspect the syringe. You should see a yellow fluid through the viewing window. You 
may see a small air bubble, this does not affect the injection and will not harm you. 
6) Choose an injection site and clean it with the enclosed alcohol swab. It requires 30-60 seconds to 
be effective. The skin on the front side abdominal wall and the skin at the front of the thigh are 
suitable as injection sites. 
7) While holding the body of the syringe, pull the cap off.  
Do not press on the plunger before injecting yourself to get rid of air bubbles. This can lead to a 
loss of the medicine. Once you have taken the cap off, keep the syringe in your hand. Do not allow 
the syringe to touch anything else. This is to make sure that the needle stays clean. 
8) Hold the syringe in the hand you write with (like a pencil) and with your other hand, make a fold 
in the skin by gently pinching the skin of the injection place with your forefinger and thumb. Make 
sure you hold the skin fold throughout the injection. 
9) Move the syringe towards the skin fold (site of injection) with the needle shield pointing directly 
at the site of injection. Insert the full length of the needle into the skin fold. 
10) Press down on the plunger with your finger until the syringe is empty. This will send the 
medication under the skin.  
198 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11) Remove the needle by pulling it out straight. The safety shield on the syringe will automatically 
cover the needle to prevent any needlestick injuries. You can now let go of the skin fold. 
Note: the safety system allowing release of the safety shield, can only be activated when the syringe 
has been emptied by pressing the plunger all the way down.  
12) Discard the used syringe into the sharps bin provided. Close the container lid tightly and place 
the container out of reach of children. If you accidently get methotrexate on the surface of the skin 
or soft tissues you must rinse with plenty of water. 
If you use more Nordimet than you should 
Follow the dose recommendations of your treating doctor. Do not change the dose without your 
doctor’s recommendation. 
If you suspect that you have used too much Nordimet, tell your doctor or contact the nearest 
hospital immediately. Take your medicine package and this leaflet with you if you go to a doctor or 
hospital. 
An overdose of methotrexate can lead to severe toxic reactions. Overdose symptoms may include 
easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness, mouth sores, nausea, vomiting, black or bloody stools, 
coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds, and decreased urinating. See also 
section 4. 
If you forget to use Nordimet 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose, but continue taking the prescribed dose 
as normal. Ask your doctor for advice. 
If you stop taking Nordimet 
You should not interrupt or discontinue Nordimet treatment before discussing with your doctor. If 
199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you suspect that you are experiencing side effects, contact your doctor immediately for advice. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you get any sudden wheeziness, difficulty in breathing, swelling of 
the eyelids, face or lips, rash or itching (especially affecting your whole body). 
Serious side effects 
If you develop any of the following side effects, contact your doctor immediately: 
- 
inflammation of the lungs (symptoms may be general illness, dry, irritating cough, shortness 
of breath, breathlessness at rest, chest pain, or fever)  
spitting or coughing blood 
severe peeling or blistering of the skin 
unusual bleeding (including vomiting blood) or bruising 
severe diarrhoea 
ulcers in mouth 
black or tarry stools 
blood in the urine or stools 
tiny red spots on the skin 
fever 
yellowing of the skin (jaundice) 
pain or difficulty in passing urine 
thirst and/or frequent urination 
fits (convulsions) 
loss of consciousness 
blurred or decreased vision 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The following side effects have also been reported: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
loss of appetite, nausea (feeling sick), tummy pain, inflammation of the mouth lining, abnormal 
digestion and increase in liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Reduced blood cell formation with decrease in white and/or red blood cells and/or platelets 
(leukopenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia), headache, tiredness, drowsiness, inflammation of the 
lungs (pneumonia) with dry, non-productive cough, shortness of breath and fever, mouth ulcers, 
diarrhoea, rash, reddening of the skin, itching. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Decrease in the number of blood cells and platelets, throat inflammation, dizziness, confusion, 
depression, inflammation of blood vessels, ulcers and bleeding in the digestive tract, inflammation 
of the bowels, vomiting, inflammation of pancreas, liver disorders, diabetes, decreased blood 
protein, herpes-like skin rash, nettle rash, light sensitivity, hair loss, increase of rheumatic nodules, 
skin ulcer, shingles, joint or muscle pain, osteoporosis (reduction of bone mass), inflammation and 
ulcers of the bladder (possibly with blood in the urine), reduced kidney function, painful urination, 
inflammation and ulcers of the vagina. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Infection (incl. reactivation of inactive chronic infection), sepsis, red eyes, allergic reactions, 
anaphylactic shock, decreased number of antibodies in the blood, inflammation of the sac around 
the heart, accumulation of fluid in the sac around the heart, obstruction of cardiac filling due to fluid 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the sac around the heart, visual disturbance, mood fluctuations, low blood pressure, blood clots, 
formation of scar tissue in the lungs (pulmonary fibrosis), Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, 
interruption of breathing, asthma, accumulation of fluid in the sac around the lungs, inflamed gums, 
acute hepatitis (inflammation of the liver), brown skin, acne, red or purple spots due to vessel 
bleeding, allergic inflammation of blood vessels, bone fracture, kidney failure, decrease or absence 
of urine, electrolyte disturbances, fever, slow wound healing. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
Reduction in certain white blood cells (agranulocytosis), severe failure of the bone marrow, liver 
failure, swollen glands, sleeplessness, pain, muscle weakness, sensation of numbness or tingling / 
having less sensitivity to stimulation than normal, changes in sense of taste (metallic taste), fits, 
inflammation of the lining of the brain causing paralysis or vomiting, impaired vision, damage to 
the retina of the eye, vomiting blood, toxic megacolon (enlargement of the large intestine associated 
with severe pain), defective sperm formation (oligospermia), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s syndrome), increased pigmentation of the nails, loss of sex drive, 
problems having an erection, infection around a fingernail, severe complications of the 
gastrointestinal tract, boils, visible enlargement of small blood vessels in the skin, menstrual 
disorders, vaginal discharge, infertility, male breast enlargement (gynaecomastia), 
lymphoproliferative disorders (excessive growth of white blood cells). 
Frequency not known (cannot be estimated from the available data): 
Increased number of certain white blood cells (eosinophilia), certain brain disorders 
(encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy), nose bleeds, bleeding from the lungs, bone damage in the 
jaw (secondary to excessive growth of white blood cells), protein in the urine, feeling weakness, 
tissue destruction at injection site, redness and shedding of skin, swelling. 
Only mild local skin reactions (such as burning sensations, erythema, swelling, discolouration, 
severe itching, pain) were observed with Nordimet and these decreased during therapy. 
Nordimet may cause a reduction in the number of white blood cells and your resistance to infection 
may be decreased. If you experience an infection with symptoms such as fever and serious 
deterioration of your general condition, or fever with local infection symptoms such as sore 
throat/sore pharynx/sore mouth or urinary problems you should see your doctor immediately. A 
blood test will be taken to check for possible reduction of white blood cells (agranulocytosis). It is 
important to tell your doctor that you are taking Nordimet. 
Methotrexate is known to cause bone disorders such as joint and muscle pain and osteoporosis. The 
frequency of these risks in children is not known.  
Nordimet may cause serious (sometimes life-threatening) side effects. Your doctor will do tests to 
check for abnormalities developing in the blood (e.g. low white blood cells, low platelets, 
lymphoma) and changes in the kidney and the liver. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5.       How to store Nordimet 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the pre-filled syringe 
and the carton after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store below 25°C. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the solution is not clear and contains particles. 
Nordimet is for single use only. Any used syringe should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.          Contents of the pack and other information 
What Nordimet contains 
The active substance is methotrexate. 1.0 ml of solution contains 25 mg methotrexate. 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide and water for injections. 
The following syringes are available: 
Pre-filled syringes of 0.3 ml containing 7.5 mg methotrexate.  
Pre-filled syringes of 0.4 ml containing 10 mg methotrexate 
Pre-filled syringes of 0.5 ml containing 12.5 mg methotrexate 
Pre-filled syringes of 0.6 ml containing 15 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled syringes of 0.7 ml containing 17.5 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled syringes of 0.8 ml containing 20 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled syringes of 0.9 ml containing 22.5 mg methotrexate  
Pre-filled syringes of 1.0 ml containing 25 mg methotrexate 
What Nordimet looks like and contents of the pack 
Nordimet pre-filled syringes contain a clear, yellow solution for injection.  
Nordimet is available in packs containing 1 pre-filled syringe and two alcohol swabs and in 
multipacks comprising of 4, 6 or 12 cartons, each containing 1 pre-filled syringe and two alcohol 
swabs. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Nordic Group B.V. 
Siriusdreef 41 
2132 WT Hoofddorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
CENEXI - Laboratoires Thissen 
Rue de la Papyrée 2-6 
B-1420 Braine-l’Alleud 
Belgium 
Sever Pharma Solutions AB 
Agneslundsvagen 27 
P.O. Box 590 
SE-201 25 Malmo 
Sweden 
202 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http//www.ema.europa.eu. 
203 
 
 
