EMA/480738/2023  
EMEA/H/C/003983 
Nordimet (methotrexate) 
An overview of Nordimet and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Nordimet and what is it used for? 
Nordimet is a medicine used to treat the following inflammatory conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis, a disease causing inflammation in joints; 
severe juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), a joint disease in children, when medicines known as 
NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) have not worked well enough; 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) in adults with moderate to 
severe disease who can be treated with a medicine given by mouth or injection; 
severe psoriatic arthritis, inflammation of the joints that occurs in patients with psoriasis; 
•  Crohn's disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut) in adults. It can be used in 
combination with  corticosteroids or on its own to induce or maintain remission (a period without 
disease symptoms after treatment). 
Nordimet contains the active substance methotrexate. 
Nordimet is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Nordimet is available in more strengths. The reference medicine for 
Nordimet is Lantarel FS. 
How is Nordimet used? 
Nordimet is available in pre-filled injection pens or syringes and it can only be obtained with a 
prescription. It should be prescribed only by doctors with expertise in the use of methotrexate and a 
full understanding of the risks of methotrexate treatment.  
Nordimet should be injected under the skin once a week on the same day each week. The dose 
injected each week depends on which condition it is being used for and how well the treatment is 
working and, for children, on the child’s height and weight. In most cases, methotrexate medicines are 
used for long-term treatment. 
A doctor may decide that patients can inject Nordimet themselves after receiving adequate training, 
but  the first self-injection should be supervised by a doctor or a nurse. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Nordimet, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Nordimet work? 
The way methotrexate, the active substance in Nordimet, works in patients with arthritis, psoriasis and 
Crohn’s disease is not completely understood, but the benefits of methotrexate are thought to be due 
to its  ability to reduce inflammation and suppress an overactive immune system. 
What benefits of Nordimet have been shown in studies? 
The company provided data from the published literature on methotrexate. No additional studies were 
needed as Nordimet is a hybrid medicine that is given by injection and contains the same active 
substance as the reference medicine, Lantarel FS. Because Nordimet has the same composition as the 
reference medicine its benefits are taken as being the same as those of Lantarel FS. 
What are the risks associated with Nordimet? 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Nordimet, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Nordimet (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
effects on the digestive system (such as inflammation of the lining of the mouth, indigestion, belly 
pain, feeling sick and loss of appetite) and blood tests showing changes in how well the liver works. 
The most serious side effects include reduced production of blood cells, damage to the lungs, liver, 
kidneys and nerves, thromboembolism (problems caused by clots in blood vessels), severe allergic 
reactions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and painful 
rash affecting the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals). 
Nordimet must not  be used in patients who abuse alcohol or those with severe liver or kidney 
problems, blood disorders, weakened immune system (the body’s natural defences), severe or long-
term infections such as tuberculosis and HIV infection, mouth ulcers, inflammation of the lining of the 
mouth, and ulcers in the digestive system. It must  not be used if the patient  is pregnant, breastfeeding 
or is receiving live vaccines.  
Why is Nordimet authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Nordimet was comparable to its reference medicine. 
The Agency therefore decided that Nordimet’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Nordimet? 
The company that  markets Nordimet will send out follow-up questionnaires for dosing errors that result 
in overdose. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Nordimet have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Nordimet are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with  Nordimet are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Nordimet Nordimet (methotrexate)  
EMA/480738/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Nordimet 
Nordimet received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 August 2016. 
Further information on Nordimet can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/nordimet.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Nordimet Nordimet (methotrexate)  
EMA/480738/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
